CULINARY .JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. 242 in a sauce-pan with some butter, salt and pepper, and spread upon hot fried toast with as little delay as possible. Coun- try greens, the leaves of the mollay-kecrcuj especially, and nearly all vegetables with slight modification according to their peculiarities can be dressed in this manner. * Vegetable marrows and cucumbers should be trimmed in neat fillets, their seeds should be cut out, and the pieces thus prepared should be cooked in boiling salted water. These may be warmed again in a good sauce blanche in which a table-spoonful of grated cheese has been mixed, or in a nice thick brown sauce, laid upon toasts, and sent up. Or they may be heated up In boiling cream, and similarly- served. The points of asparagus, cauliflower flowers, arti- choke bottoms, and similar dainty vegetables, form admir- able materials for toasts : they deserve delicate treatment, and can well bear association with thickened cream, veloute au Parmesan, or creme cl’anchois. Bande-cai (bhindi) toast is so well known that I need scarcely do more than mention it, out of respect as it were, for, homely as it is, there are few toasts more palatable. Cream, when it can be spared is, of course, a vast improve- ment, and the following variation will be found nice for a change:—Boil the bande-cais, and, when cold, scrape out the seeds and pulp from each pod into a small basin, using a silver spoon for the operation. Give the pulp a dusting of white pepper, and salt to taste, with a few drops of anchovy sauce. Fry rounds, or slices of bread, according to the number you want, in butter, and set them to keep crisp, and hot in the oven. Now, take a small sauce-pan, place it in the bain-marie, or over a very moderate fire, melt a dessert-spoonful of butter in it, stir into it the bande-cai pulp, and two good table-spoonfuls of cream with the yolk of one egg. Continue stirring one way until the contents of your sauce-pan look nice and thick, and steaming hot; then pour the mixture over the toasts, and serve. A dust