354 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. before the amalgamation. The fish being ready, lift the stew-pan from the fire, and strain off the broth into a clean sauce-pan. Arrange the onions upon a hot entree dish, upon them place the fillets, mingle the egg liaison with the broth, off the fire, and pour the whole of it over the fillets. The plat is now ready. It is of course obvious that this procedure can be follow- ed in treating any fish large enough to fillet, or a number of small fish which can only give a couple of fillets each ; it is very simple, and demands no expensive adjunct, or in- gredient difficult to obtain ; it does not even require butter, and it is absolutely innocent of the charge so frequently laid against fresh-water fish dishes, that they are too elaborate, require too much wine, and that at best la sauce vaict viicux quo le poisson. If large Bombay onions cannot be got in camp, the ordinary red shallots, commonly called “curry onions,” will do; slices of green ginger would be better than the powder of the dried root, and I can strongly recommend some scrapings of the moringa, or horse radish root. Isaak Walton’s recipes frequently include this flavouring. In cantonments where parsley is obtainable, a heaped-up table- spoonful, finely chopped, should be stirred into the broth with the egg thickening; if a glass of chablis could be spared, it would be an improvement, and the addition of anchovy would certainly be of value in preparing the broth. The important points are, first of all, the essence of fish in which the fillets are cooked. I cannot too strongly urge this as a fundamental rule in fish cookery. Whether for a stew such as that we have been considering, or for the foundation in any circumstances of a fish sauce, for sea- fish as well as for fresh-water fish, do not waste the invalua- ble essence-yielding trimmings. Compare an ordinary sauce made of water, or milk and water, with flour, butter, and anchovy sauce, with one made upon a fish-stock basis, and you will recognise the fact that we often throw away the