278 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. and two cupfuls of butter. Choose a cool place to work in, see that the flour is good and dry, the butter firm and Iree from moisture, and fill two shallow baking-tins with broken ice. Put the Hour on a cooKslab, mixing into it a heaped-up tea-spoonful of the baking powder ; when mixed, form the flour in a ring, as it were, and in the centre throw the yolk of an egg and a tea-spoonf'ul of salt; add a little iced water, and gradually work the flour into it from the inside of the ring, sprinkling additional water as you in- quire it—about one breakfast-cupful altogether—until you have a smooth, fine dough, free from all stickiness. Pat this into a lump, and put it in the ice-box for a quarter of an hour, then roll it out about the size of a dinner plate : put the butter upon it, and wrap the edges of the dough over it, carefully covering it: now turn it upside down, and roll it out very thin; reverse it again, and fold it in three. Place it after this on a baking-sheet over one of the pans of broken ice, and put the other pan of ice upon it. Eepeat this cooling process between each double turn, and use as soon as possible when five turns have been completed. Although composed for English and American kitchens, observe the use of ice advocated in this receipt. Instead of the butter I would try the clarified beef suet, that is to say, if I were unable to procure butter of undeniable quality, firm, cold, and quite free from water. The next description of pastry that demands our atten- tion is that which should be used for savoury pies, to wit: —pie-crust." In this, I think, Ramasamy needs careful in- struction. He makes no difference between his savoury pie “suet-crust,” and that which he sends up under the name of a vol-au-vcnt, his chief aim being a pie-covering, raised an inch and a half or two inches high, composed of the harsh, talc-like layers to which I have already alluded, I need hardly point out that this is an entirely erroneous im-