236 CULINARY JOTTINGS FOR MADRAS. colour, rather than toasted in the ordinary manner. If kept waiting at all, ordinarily toasted bread becomes spongy or sodden, and soon loses its crispness. The easy process of toasting too is frequently slurred over carelessly, and the bread is scorched, not toasted. If you watch a native servant in the act of toasting, you will generally find that he places the slice of bread as close to the glowing embers as possible. Setting aside the risk that the bread thus incurs of catching a taint of gas from the live charcoal, it cannot be evenly and delicately browned, neither can it attain that thorough crispness which is a sine qua non in properly made toast. The slice of bread must be kept some little distance from the clear embers, being gradually heat- ed through, crisped, and lightly and evenly browned by degrees. But, as I said before, bread fried in good butter is better, with a very few exceptions, than toasted bread for the sort of dishes we are going to discuss. 2.—A savoury toast is not worth serving unless it be piping hot: it may be kept hot in the oven, to be sure, hut it is never so good as when set before the hungry guest the moment it has been completed. In order to ensirne this ‘slickness’ (to borrow a trans-Atlantic term) let the cook be warned to have everything ready, but not actually to finish off the making of his toast till it is wanted. It is better to keep the table waiting for three or four minutes for a bonne-bouche, than to serve immediately such a miser- able fiasco as a cold toast. The next thing to consider is the composition of a savoury toast, which I will endeavour to describe in a series of re- cipes. Let us commence with our time-honoured friend :— Anchovy toast. If you have a tin of anchovies in oil, the process is this :—Take six anchovies, wipe them free from oil, split them open, remove the spines, and pass the fish through your hair sieve : put the pulp in a bowl, and stir into it the yolks of two raw eggs. Cut four nice