MENU FOR A DINNER OF SIX. 448 five ounces minced fat bacon, the rind of a lime minced fine, a dessert-spoonful each of thyme and marjoram, some spiced pepper, and salt, a table-spoonful of minced parsley, all hound with four eggs: mix this as previously describ- ed, and keep it by your side in a basin. Now turn out the “picnic tongue,” straighten it, and cut a solid piece of the best meaty part to form the centre of your galantine : it should be nearly as long as the carcass of the fowl (leaving room for folding up) and nearly the full thick- ness of the tongue after the skin has been peeled off. Slice up the remainder of the tongue ; separating fat slices from lean, and keep them on a dish handy; scraps may be minced fine, and mixed with the forcemeat. To make the foundation of your work as level as possible, you should trim nearly all the meat of the carcass of the fowl, with a very sharp knife, almost to the skin ; the meat that is thus detached should be kept with that of the wings and legs. Lastly, mince together the liver, gizzard and heart, and “spice-pepper,” and mince them well. First, spread a layer of the stuffing a quarter of an inch thick evenly over the fowl, upon that a layer of your slices of tongue (spice-pepper freely), upon that a layer of the meat you cut from the fowl (dust of salt), over that a second spread of forcemeat, then your minced liver, &c., and lastly, the block of tongue : fold over this the flatten- ed carcass, disturbing the layers as little as possible, and sew the galantine up securely with fine twine.. Envelop this in a clean cloth, and tie it up carefully with cross strings to preserve the oval shape of the galantine. Set this in a deep stew-pan, cover it well with weak stock in which a claret-glass of marsala has been introduced, and simmer gently for three or four hours. When done, lift it out, drain it, take off the cloth, wrap it in a fresh dry one, and place it on a dish with a heavy weight above it. When quite cold, take out your galantine, scrape off any fat that may he attached to the skin, glaze it (page 267)