64 case? Yet such things are done in connection with the Coroner's work. There is not any public Officer for whose neglect or misbehavior a remedy is more easy to be had. But these persons have not the courage of their opinions; and they do not bring their complaints, — real or imaginary, — to the knowlege of the one person who has the power to enquire into them. If all Medical Practitioners (especially those connected with Public Institutions), instead of giving certificates, by which the true cause of death is kept out of sight, would put themselves in communication with the Coroner, there would be very few cases of death from natural causes in which a Coroner would think it necessary to hold an Inquest. 19 February, 1892. To the Chairman of the Committee. — On Tuesday last I held an Inquest on the body of H. F. His body had been opened by Officers of the Infirmary before I heard of his death, and of the circumstances which made it necessary to summon a Jury. His wife asked the House-Surgeon for a certificate of his death. He told her that if she would consent to have a post-mortem examination, it would avoid an Inquest. This was not a proper remark to be made to a person seeking the benefits of a Charitable Institution. She could not know,—what all Officers of the Infirmary know, — that the question (whether, or not, there shall be an Inquest,) is for the Coroner alone. Upon the suggestion of an Inquest, it was the duty of the Officers to refer at once to me as the Coroner, and to leave the body untouched. Opening the body without my knowlege or consent, has been brought to the knowlege of the Committee on former occasions ; and I have had their assurance that it would not be done again. Under these repeated acts, neither stopped nor censured by the Committee, it may become my duty to remove the bodies of deceased Patients, immediately after death, to where they will be safe from violence. On the 20th of April last, after an Inquest upon the body of W. G. C, his brother complained to me that, when going