34 should be brought to the Coroner's Court, in case of an Inquest. The Nurse, or other person present at the death, was the best witness to prove the day of the death: the Medical Practitioner, who prescribed the treatment, was the Witness to give an opinion of the nature of the last illness, and the cause of death. No other testimony would be admitted as evidence against a Prisoner on trial for man- slaughter. Being afterwards in communication with persons connected with the Register Office, I found it was thought that, if the particulars were anyhow proved to the satisfac- tion of the Jury, other testimony need not, as a general rule, be sought. Under such a system of Registration, the true and full description of the cause of death may, no doubt, be now and then recorded. But it does not seem to me perfectly consistent with what was contemplated by the Legislature in the elaborate system established. Where a Medical Practitioner has been in attendance on the deceased, I call him as a Witness. If he is not present, to give evidence, the cause of his absence ought to be explained to the Jury: the absence of the Practitioner, without explana- tion, suggests that more might be known, if his evidence was taken. The necessary attendance of a Medical Practitioner at an Inquest requires, on his part, so great a sacrifice of time, that he ought to be excused, whenever it can be, from the discharge of a duty so burdensome. [M. M. C. II. 18.] The first to be in attendance, . . that he may identify the body; and the last to be discharged, . . giving his evidence after he has heard the other witnesses : the duty presses more heavily on him than on others. Part of the bridge over a stream fell, when some children were upon it ; and several of them fell into the water, which was deep, and running rapidly. All escaped, except one, — a girl about 12 years of age; she was carried under the flood, and not seen again. Three years afterwards, some bones of the trunk, with one of the legs and part of the other, were found in still water, not far from where the Child was last seen. From their appearance, I was satisfied, as a Surgeon, that they were part of the body of a female Child about the age of the Child who was missing. I desired a Medical