49 wards ; and it would have made the appearance of the front more pleasing to the eye. But in the opinion of the Architect, the walls would not bear the greater weight. The ventilation, though not perfect, is not bad. Now and then there may be a want of fresh air in some ward, or in some parts: but I do not think that the general ventilation can be called bad. It would be an improve- ment if the north staircase was carried up to the attic, — as on the south side: this was proposed 30 years ago. A wooden hand-rail ought to be put on the top iron rail of both staircases, — for the comfort and support of old and infirm persons passing up and down: I proposed it 35 years ago. The water-closets throughout the house are bad; not so much from faulty machinery, as from want of space for the purpose. The same may be said of the sculleries. The kitchen, — condemned by Howard, — remains where it was; some changes have since been made in the arrangements there. It would be well if a second or separate kitchen was found; for the use of the Officers resident in the House. There is not any room supplying the place of what is known as the Servants' Hall: this ought to be provided. The sleeping rooms for the Nurses, — whether on duty or not, — are not so good as they might be. The doors of the wards are clumsy and awkward, for a person going in or out; all want altering. The window- sashes should be replaced by others of a lighter kind, and more convenient for opening and shutting. The change would give a more cheerful appearance to the inside. The Dead-house, in the corner of the Porter's yard, is not in any sense fit as a resting place for the bodies after death. When planned, it was to supply a temporary want; it was known that the place was not fit for more. It ought to be cleared away without delay. The roadway into the House is made awkward and dangerous by the obstruction. The entrance to the Hall is damp and gloomy. Some few panes of glass and a skylight in the roof, would make the appearance cheerful to a sick person and his friends, when coming there for the first time. Of the Long Ward, as well as the rooms for the Medical Officers, it should be E