73 excluded, — as now by the Municipal Corporation Act of 3 835. In the boroughs,—then, as now, — it is submitted that it was a sufficient compliance with the directions of the Statutes,'that the Coroner should sit in some con- venient place, at his discretion, so that it be within the jurisdiction. I do not know any opinion of authority aeainst it. It must have been a rare case, and in distant times, that an Inquest was held with the body in Court, or in the open air, upon a body lying there openly, and from the time of death or finding. I do not know any authority in history for the statement that an Inquest was so held. Writers had little practical knowlege of the Lex Coronatoria, and had not been present at Inquests. They do not refer to the custom and practice of Coroners. The meaning of the early Statutes was that the Coroner should go, as soon as he conveniently could, to where the body was lying, — being within his jurisdiction ; and, after hearing the particulars of the case, he should give directions for summoning jurors, and collecting witnesses. There was no law to forbid his moving the body to a place more con- venient for the Inquest, —nor, to require him to stay with the body at the spot where lying, or where death happened, until the Jury and witnesses were in attendance. * * * Sir Thomas Smith's short note (Commonzvealth of England, 1609, B. 2. c. 24.) is not to be taken as proof that the impaneling of the Inquest, the view of the body, the enquiry before the Coroner, and the giving of the verdict, were all in the open air. He says also, the Coroner impanels the Inquest of those which come next by; be they strangers or inhabitants. The Statute of Edward I., de officio Coronatoris, declaratory of the Common Law, requires that the Jurors shall be taken from the next adjoining townships. I have moved several bodies from the Infirmary, and from other places, to the Mortuary for Inquest. I have moved a body from the Mortuary to an other place, holding the Inquest at that other place. In two cases, when view ing the body, I gave my opinion that it would have been better if the body had been moved to the Mortuary for