55 from a fracture ; which is one of the cases specially mentioned, in the printed directions from the Register Office, to be referred to the Coroner before registration. I did not hear of the death till Thursday evening. To-day I hear that the body has been buried. From what I have heard, I am not satisfied that all persons present at the accident are free from blame. I hope to have full particulars to-morrow; when I should decide whether, or not, an Inquest should be held. In Middlesex, the body would be dug up at once. But, I am not willing to do that, unless some measure of public good will be gained by it. You and all parties may be acquitted of want of courtesy. But it is unfortunate that Members of the Profession,— and indeed others, — are so slow to learn their duty under the law of Registration. The Medical Certificate is given for the purpose of Registration, — and Burial. If given in the case of a violent, or unnatural death, the Practitioner may lay himself open to a charge of helping others to commit an indictable offence, — that of burying the body without enquiry by the Coroner. 9 April, 1887. To the Chairman of the Committee. — A. A. died in the Infirmary on Monday morning at 9 o'clock. The first notice of his death was brought to me on Tuesday after- noon at half-past 3, — 30 hours after the death. At the Inquest I found that the body had been opened, without permission from me. I call the attention of the Committee to these irregularities; and I venture to remind the Com- mittee of the Chairman's letter to me in October 1886, that in such a case the body of a Patient should not again be opened, except on written authority from me. J. K. died in the Infirmary on Saturday, 22 October, 1887, at half-past 7 in the evening. The first notice of his death was brought to my house on Monday, the 24th, about 12 o'clock, — 40 hours after the death. I was about to take a journey to a distance, to return on Thursday. If reasonable notice had been given of the death, the Inquest could have been held on Monday, before I left