63 To the Chairman of the Committee. — Again it is my duty to call attention to a Certificate of the death of a 'Patient, sent to the Registrar, without notice first sent to me. S. L. H., admitted, November 29, with extensive burns about the limbs, died on the 6th inst. Notice of the case ought to have been sent to me immediately on her death. Instead of sending such notice, a certificate of the death was sent to the Registrar, to be registered, — for the purpose of burial without enquiry. The Registrar very properly refused to register the death without my permission. Having received satisfactory assurance that Mr. P., late House-Surgeon, was no longer at the Infirmary, I was able to dispense with the personal attendance of the Physician or Surgeon, which, — otherwise, — I should have required at the Inquest. From the evidence at the Inquest, it appeared that the Child was seen by one of the Surgeons of the Infirmary on Tuesday; and she was not seen afterwards by him, or by any other of the Surgeons or Physicians of the Infirmary, before her death on Saturday. 9 December, 1890. To the Editor of the Oxford Review. — In the Review is a letter from one of the Physicians of the Infirmary, in which he calls attention to an Inquest lately held there. He was not present; and he does not refer to the circum- stances under which it became the duty of the Coroner to act. If he had asked me, I would have told him why the Inquest was held; and I would have pointed out how imperfect the examination made of the body after death was, and how inefficient for the purposes of the Inquest. How is it, that people are so ready to give opinions about imperfect or unnecessary Inquests, and other excesses, and to set the Coroner right in the discharge of what they think his duties? What would be said of a man who went into a church during the service, and proceeded to tell the Minister how the service ought to be carried on? What of a man who went into a sick-room, and in the hearing of the Patient, lectured upon the proper way of treating his