2 as with the coverings over the hernial sac, — by myself on one side of the knife, and by a competent assistant on the other, so as to deaden the sense of pain in the part. I feel confident the operation might be done without pain to the Patient; though I never made a trial: for I preferred chloro- form in all cases. Mr. P. spoke of seeing Mr. V. operate for cataract without chloroform ; and the Patient, being asked afterwards whether he felt pain, said, — Not a bit. I never gave chloroform for extraction of the lens: and I have had the same answer in every case; though the Patient has acknowleged to me that he did not believe me, when I told him before operation, that he would have no pain. When my former Master, Mr. Welbank, was House-Surgeon. — about 1820,—he was called up one night to an Irish Priest, admitted with a compound fracture of the leg, walking about the ward, under delirium tremens, with the splints on his leg. Flourishing his hand above his head, he addressed the House- Surgeon as he entered, Ileus, chirurge, Latine loquor. We can not think the Patient felt pain in his broken limb. Is there much sense of pain, — is there any, — except in the common integument ? A former House-Surgeon, still living, underwent operation for hernia twice, before the days of chloroform. He said he only felt pain, during the operation, at one time; he thought it was from twitching a nerve. Other cases were mentioned, at the former meeting, of Practitioners who had undergone operations without complaint of pain. 6 December, 1893. To Dr. O., Dublin. — Forgive me, —a stranger to you,— that I venture to criticize your letter in the Medical Journal. A letter from a professional man in a public journal invites criticism; and I am not inclined to enter on a discussion in the journals. Let me say that I am one of the Surgeons who give chloroform ; not that I think the other anesthetics in use are unfit for the purpose, but I am accustomed to chloroform : I have confidence from long use of it; and I have not seen any harm in it.