19 Through your enquiries, I may perhaps obtain satisfactory information of the cause of death without that. 18 August, 1891. To A. W. Esq. — Some days ago you spoke to me about Mrs. S.'s Child. From B. I learn to-day that you certified the death from thrombosis (of leg), embolism (of pulmonary artery), and asphyxia ; and that this was confirmed by Dr. C, on giving information to the Registrar there: — that the death on 30th June, was registered on 8th July, — Dr. C. being Informant. Assuming the existence of the complaints in the Child, when taken from home, were the Parents made aware of it, or warned of possible danger from traveling by Railway, and the chance of death coming on with short and sudden symptoms? These are questions which I should put, if before a Jury. As far as my information goes, the death was sudden and unexpected. Will you be good enough to let me see the letters which passed between you and Dr. C. I should put the same questions to him, if before a Jury. If you can give me this information, circumstances, which now seem to me suspicious, may become clear, without the necessity of summoning a Jury to consider them. Your own opinion, that the Child was not hurt by the journey, — though credible testimony, to guide me, — can not be taken as evidence to a Jury: you did not see the Child after she left home, nor, — as I think, — for 36 hours before the fatal symptoms. 29 August, 1891. To the Registrar General of Births, Deaths, &c. — In acknowlegement of your letter of the 28th inst, I thank you for the information you have obtained for me. Application, — a stranger being Informant, — 9 days after death, in the month of July,—to register a sudden death at a Railway Station, — removal of the body, — burial without previous registration, — no medical Certificate from the Practitioner present, nor Clerical Certificate of the burial, — production of a Certificate from a Practitioner at a distance, not present at the death, —would open the eyes of some C 2