35 Practitioner to examine the parts fully, for the purpose of giving evidence. He was present at the opening of the Inquest; and he heard the evidence of all the witnesses, giving his own evidence the last of all, with his opinion, that the remains examined were parts of the body of a female Child, about 11 or 12 years of age, and that it was highly probable that they had been under water the whole time. After the Inquest, he told me that he had some doubt about the identity: but, being present throughout the whole enquiry, and hearing the evidence of the witnesses, he was satisfied; and he gave his opinion, with confidence, that the remains found were part of the body of the Child who had fallen from the bridge. Now and then, a Practitioner says he is not able to give an opinion of the cause of death, without opening the body. I have asked, — Whether he would be able to do so, after the body has been opened? A Practitioner ought to be able to give an opinion of the cause of death, —' to the best of his knowlege and belief,' — in evidence, as well as in a certificate under the Registration Act. He would not undertake the treatment of a Patient, without forming an opinion of his case. . . . ! Don't you know what he died of!' a woman said to a young friend of mine, when he asked permission to open the body. 'Then what business had you to attend him ?' she added. I do not give an order for opening the body before the Inquest, unless I have cause to suspect the death to have been from an unnatural cause with the hand of man contributing. Even post-mortem examination does not always give sufficient information to determine the cause of death, — is the remark of competent pathologists. ' The determination of the cause of death is frequently insoluble in practice,' was said by the late Dr. W. Farr. If from evidence at the Inquest, it appears necessary that a post-mortem examination should be made, an adjournment is unavoidable, with the corresponding expense and inconvenience. It is seldom that the examination can be made during the sitting of the Jury. If the examination is not desired by the Jury,— but for questions D 2