32 To S. F. B. Esq., — Bearing in mind that the primary object of the Coroner's enquiry is to find whether any be culpable, . . . who, and in what manner, — How is the Cause of death to be found, in the absence of a Medical witness to describe it ? The County, in which your district lies, is not the only County, where the Council are considering the expense of Medical evidence, and whether such evidence is necessary, unless violence is known or suspected. — How the Jury are to find, . . . who is to blame, and how far ? — without a Lawyer to advise them of the fine distinctions of the law, in such questions as degrees of culpability, — you have no need to ask. Under the Registration Act of 1874, the Jury are to find the particulars required to be registered concerning the death, — that is, the day and the place of death, the name, the sex, age, and rank or profession, of the deceased, and the cause of death. Under the Coroners Act of 1887, the statements in the Inquisition 'may be made in concise and ordinary language.' It is not necessary to put into the Inquisition the barbarous words sometimes used in Medical evidence and certificates,— 'English cut on Greek and Latin.' They are often symptoms of the last stages of life, — the effect, indeed, of disease : the disease, which is the cause of them,— the causa causans, — not being named ; and the question, — of importance in an enquiry before the Coroner, . . . whether, or not, the death was from ' natural causes' ? . . . is put aside: natural causes having no place in the 'nomenclature of diseases.' Disease is readily, and perhaps truly, certified and registered, as a cause of death: but whether the disease is from natural, or other causes, is not often shown in the Certificate. The terms for sickness, — in ordinary language, ■— are what the friends of a deceased person give to the Registrar, when they bring information of a death, without a Medical certificate: and he enters them, — or many Registrars do, — without question, in the Register as the cause of death, . . . unless something falls from the friends, to make him think the Coroner ought to be informed that application has been made to register the death. In these 'uncertified' cases, — and even in those which are