33 'certified,' — it would, in many cases, save trouble and expense, if the Coroner was furnished with, particulars, immediately the death is registered. ' A person may now be buried,' — wrote Mr. Herford in 1877, — ' without any Certificate whatever ; — the Clergyman being merely bound to give notice of such burial : and then the scandal of disinterment, in case of violence, or suspicion of it, has to be resorted to.' If the testimony of casual ' Informants ' is sufficient for Registration, it is sufficient for the Jury, who have the duty, under the Coroner's direction, of finding the cause of death, from the testimony before them: and the words, — 'in all matters to which they apply,' — so used, are, under the Act of 1887, 'sufficient in law,' — though, perhaps, not enough to fill the blanks in the printed form used for the Medical Certificates. Few people but Lawyers make a distinction between information and knowlege, — the knowlege which they have by personal observation, and the information given by others. The ' knowlege ' required by the Registration Acts, must be from the personal knowlege and observation of the Practitioner himself,—not from hearsay. It would be well if the body of the deceased was, in all cases, seen after death by the Practitioner ; and, — if it could be so, — before being moved from the bed on which he lay at the time of death. If the Coroner and Jury are satisfied that the death was from natural causes, without the act of man contributing, it is enough to record that. ' In violent deaths,' Mr. Herford remarks, ' the question is seldom the cause of death, which, is obvious ; but only whether any one is at all to blame in connexion with it.' The same may be said of other deaths, — sudden, or not, — where the cause of death is not so obvious. The Registration Act of 1874, — under which Certificates were for the first time required from Medical Practitioners. — came into operation shortly before I was appointed Coroner. The object, as it seemed to me, was that the best proof that could be readily had of the particulars required, should be produced to the Registrar; and that equally good evidence D