37 Other questions arise where a young Child, in bed with Parents, is found dead by their side, when they wake in the night, or early morning. The death may be from convulsions, from sudden and natural causes. Death is not uncommon in young children from sudden disturbance of the breathing. It may be from the want of fresh air, under the poisonous gases, of Carbonic acid, breathed out by the Parents, and gathering about the mouth and nose of the Child, — not strong enough to rouse itself, when the poison begins to take effect. Death from such a cause can seldom be satisfactorily proved by post-mortem examina- tion, however minute and carefully made. In the cases before me, I have not been satisfied, as a Surgeon, that the Child so found dead was smothered by the bed- clothes, or ' overlaid,' (as the phrase is,) by a Parent. Such modes of death are said to be common. A case has since come before me, in which I think it likely that the Child was smothered by the bed-clothes. The Mother, — an unmarried woman, who had lost two young children before this, — was not sober when she went to bed: and she was alone in the room all night, with the child. The child was three weeks old. One Sunday afternoon, in the summer, a married woman, — not, I think, perfectly sober, — lay down on the bed, and placed her infant child, two months old, on her arm. When she awoke 4 hours afterwards, she found the Child dead, with its face to her bosom. Where poison has been taken, — accidentally or inten- tionally,— and where the poison was the cause of death, I do not think it necessary to find the nature and chemical composition: and I do not require the body to be opened, and an analysis made of the contents of the stomach and intestines, — unless there is cause to suspect that the poison was administered by the act of other persons. A man, over 70 years of age, a hard drinker, living alone, was seen going home late one night, and was found dead in bed next day. A drinking glass, with some watery fluid, was on the table at his side. Upon examination, this was found to be a strong solution of Prussiate of Potash, — the Cyanide