54 treated the case. I say this, however, with some hesita- tion ; because the Coroner for the County claims the power to appoint whom he likes to the duty, and to send him into a Hospital to make the examination. It seems to me that this former power of the Coroner is superseded by the Medical Witness Act, passed 50 years ago. The Chairman avoids the difficulty. He says,—the Coroner's written authority should be had. This would be an answer to any question, if raised by the friends. The duty required of the Coroner is often of a kind far from agreeable among the friends of the deceased person whose case comes before him ; and much courtesy and forbearance is wanted. There have been three cases in the present year of which I have had to complain, — a Certificate sent to the Registrar, without notice to me, of death after a fracture, — two bodies opened without my knowlege; and in one of the two, the fact of the examination being kept back by the witness. It is not desirable that such things should be done in a Hospital; or that questions should be raised in public about them. Fuller particulars ought, I think, — in common courtesy among Professional men acting as Public Officers, — to be given to me, in any case of unusual occurrence, before I come to the House for the Inquest. I am willing to pay a visit, for the purpose of obtaining it, if I know whom I should see for the purpose, and where, (in that large and busy building,) I could find him; and, if it will save the trouble of writing and sending a messenger. The Summoning Officer has been refused permission to enter the House for that purpose. If the whole of what is necessary, to explain the case to the Jury, is known to me beforehand, it will save time to all parties whose duty requires them to attend the Inquest. 25 October, 1886. To the Same.— The Registrar should be a safeguard against the mistake of a Practitioner. In P.'s case, — as in M.'s in February 1886,— he registered the death without question, although the death is stated in the Certificate to be