66 and he was told that there would be an Inquest. He then went home, not knowing what else to do in the case. The poor people would have been saved much trouble, and the Inquest might have been held on Monday, if—during the four hours they were kept waiting, — they had been told to go to me, or to my Officer. The Jury gave their opinion that they ought not to have been kept waiting so long, and to so little purpose. While I bring these, to the notice of the Committee, I beg that there may not be a smoking of tobacco in the Hall during the sitting of the Coroner's Court. 20 April, 1892. To the Same. — At an Inquest on Thursday upon S. G. W., who died from the effects of a broken leg, it appeared that a certificate of the death had been sent to the Registrar. The only notice to me was that certificate, which the Registrar sent to me, about twenty-two hours after the death. He very properly refused to register it. The Jury expressed their opinion that giving the certificate was a very improper proceeding on the part of the Officers of the House. I told them that a similar thing had been done several times ; and that I had brought it to the notice of the Committee. The certificate certifies the death as being from a different cause from what was given in evidence by the attending House-Surgeon. It was given by one of the gentlemen residing in the House ; and he, as I am informed, saw the Patient only once, and that about a quarter of an hour before he died. The House-Surgeon was not present, as he ought to have been, at the sitting of the Court; and he did not attend till the Officer of the Court had been twice to him to call him ; and when he came, he did not express any kind of regret at having kept the Court and Jury waiting. The Jury expressed very strongly their disapprobation of this behavior in an Officer of a Public Institution; and they asked whether some arrangement could not be made by me under which the medical evidence could be had, without waiting for a House-Surgeon. as was the case then,