14 the views ' of Fellows of the College, upon what is there stated. The College of Surgeons was founded ' for the due promotion and encouragement of the Study and Practice of the Art and Science of Surgery.' This, it appears, is not the purpose for which the Association was formed. For the purpose of considering the many matters, — uncon- nected with the Art and Science, — for which the Association was formed, it seems to me that the Hall for the examination of Candidates for Licenses to practise, is a better place than the College of Surgeons, for the business undertaken by the Association. I do not acknowlege the assumption of the Committee that the Fellows of the College of Surgeons, admitted after examination, are in a lower position in any way, than Fellows of any other Society in the Kingdom. I look on the Fellow- ship of the College of Surgeons, given after examination, as an honor, and the highest position which a man can reach in his profession by his own exertions. Since the Charter of 1852 the Fellows created under the Charter of 1843 have ceased to have the power of choosing the Members of the Council. A power, which is able to control them, has been given to other Members of the College, under what was called ' the ten-pound swamp.' The power of voting by ticket, without personal attendance, helps to lessen the power given to the Fellows by the Charter of 1843. The object of the Association, as it seems to me, should be to have this departure from the Charter of 1843 undone. That in some other professional Societies, — as the College of Physicians, — the persons called Fellows, created at the foundation of the College, were then appointed to have the general management of the affairs, — 11011 sequitur that in the College of Surgeons the persons newly named Fellows have the same rights, because they are called by the same name. There is no magic in words : there is none in names or titles, new or old. 5 March, 1890. To L. T. Esq. — Before considering the objects of the