51 them being Members of the Committee. The constitution of the Committee itself is at fault. But a greater difficulty stands in the way. The truth is, — color it how you will, — the Infirmary is wholly under the influence of Members of the University: neither Governors from the County, nor Governors from the City will interfere. Accepting this as a thing not likely to be altered in our time, much might be done to bring about your wish, — to see more of the Governors taking their proper part. The Auditors should not be Members of a Committee which orders the expenditure, — having the power, as Auditors, of enquiring into the expenditure. The Medical Officers, — all now receiving payment for their services, — should not be members of the Committee of Management. The proper position of the Medical Officers is that of advisers of the Governors on questions in their own department, — not as their colleagues in matters of administrative business. The Committee Room should not be the arena for the jealousies of rival or competing professional men; — a scene from which the friends of a Charitable Institution are too ready to withdraw. Nor should ' Ladies subscribing as Governors' be admitted to act as Members of the Com- mittee. Few male persons will be found to act, heartily and usefully, in the affairs of a Public Institution ' while Ladies interpose.' Some persons, you say, have suggested extravagance in the expenses as a fault in the Committee. I do not remember to have seen the letters which you mention. For my part, as long as there is not waste, I do not think a large expenditure is matter for censure. The money is freely given; let it be freely spent. 27 October, 1890. To the Editor of the Oxford Chronicle.—« How many Members of the University are there on the Committee ? ' asked a Governor at the late Quarterly Court. £I don't know,' said the Chairman in reply. By the last Annual Report, it appears that the Committee of Management consists of 27 Governors ; and that 16 of the number are E 2