28 Surgeons to their attending, when desired by the Coroner; — nor, indeed, would an objection be allowed by the Governors. The duty ' to conform to the requirements of the Coroner, and render him every assistance in the conduct of his Inquest,' is acknowleged, — the duty, in short, 'to honor and obey the Queen, and all that are put in authority under her.' The Managing Governors of the Infirmary solicited the intervention of the Secretary of State. He told them, that the Coroner is not only entitled, but bound, to summon every witness whose evidence he considers essential; and that in the exercise of his discretion he is not to be interfered with : and he recommended that the Officers of the Infirmary should readily conform to the requirements of the Coroner, and render him every assistance in the conduct of his Inquest. The only person who has failed to attend, when I have sent to him, that his evidence would be wanted, was one of the Surgeons of the Infirmary at an Inquest held there ; and that without giving, then or afterwards, any explanation of the cause of his absence. [M.M.C. 365.] An other of the Surgeons attended at two Inquests there, each time accom- panied with a Solicitor ; not the way to make a Jury think well of his evidence. The House-Surgeon does not always attend ; and, when he does, he is not often present, — as he ought to be, — at the opening of the Court. Attention has been directed now and then, to some or other of the Inquests, in newspapers, — ' the place where Ignorance talks to Ignorance and seems wise.' A young woman, upon sudden symptoms of illness, was taken to the Infirmary. Being insensible at the time of admission, she continued so till death. She was not seen by any Physician or Surgeon of the Infirmary. After death, her friends were told that the certificate of the cause of death could not be given without opening the body. The friends sent to my Officer; and put the case into my hands. A question of neglect of duty undertaken called for enquiry. Each week the Committee of Management publish in the local newspapers the names of the Physician and Surgeon, who undertake the charge of the Patients admitted the next week. On the faith of this, the Patients, — ' poor and real objects of charity,'— are