23 an Inquest in the buildings in Gloucester Green. — I keep one of the three keys of the Dead-house. It has been the custom since 1889 to hold Inquests in the Market-House, when not wanted for other purposes ; and in 1890, with the knowlege of the Town Council, I paid from my own pocket a sum of £8 for necessary alterations. When the Local Board of Public Health refused the appli- cation I .made to them to provide some kind of place for bodies waiting an Inquest, the Local Government Board in London, upon application made to them, ordered that a proper place should be provided for the purpose. The building in Gloucester Green does not fully satisfy what is required by the Local Government Board. But the open space in Gloucester Green was so desirable, and so well fitted for the purpose, that I did not wish to make objection, and to urge the outlay of the large amount of money, which would be necessary in any other part of the City. If there was any written agreement for the use of the buildings, I do not remember that I had any knowlege of it. Although I can not allow interference with the discretion I have by law in moving a body, there ought, I think, to be more places in the City for bodies found, or otherwise waiting an Inquest, or which for any other reason ought to be moved from the place of death. It might then happen less frequently, that a body would be moved from one Union to an other. 5 December, 1892. To the Editor of the ****** ********* _ a man who undertakes public office in a free country should not be too thin-skinned, —was a remark made by one of the Queen's Judges in a case before the Court: and if the adviser of a band of partizans, who publicly declared himself at deadly enmity with almost every leading Liberal in the Town, and made without foundation charges of corruption against Public Officers and Magistrates, getting well out of Court by the skin of his teeth, — if such a one likes to air his discontent in the accredited organ of a discredited faction, — a Journal