43 Inquest of asking whether the fall, and the injury to the head, had led in any way to the death. Though Medical Practitioners may be excused from attend- ing the Coroner's Court, they are not exempt from the duty, — common to all the Queen's subjects, — of giving the Coroner information of facts within their knowlege. A Medi- cal Practitioner received early one morning a message from a Lady, begging his attendance at once; the Maid-servant had died suddenly. The Girl had risen in the morning, as usual: she had been heard at the pump; and soon after- wards, she had fallen dead, after some kind of scream. At the pump was a mug, having some undissolved powder in it, and a paper with some of what seemed to be the same. He told the Lady that the Coroner ought to be informed ; and he left it to her to do so. An Inquest was held the same day; and the Assistant of an other Practitioner, who did not see the deceased during life, but who happened to be then in the neighborhood, was called as a Witness. He gave his opinion that the sudden death was from disease of the heart; and the Jury, in the absence of other evidence, found that as the cause. A different Verdict might have been found, if the first Practitioner had himself told the Coroner what had been seen immediately after the death. The Court was scarcely dissolved, and the Jury discharged, when the Father and Mother of the Girl came in haste, having had a letter that morning from their daughter that she was going to poison herself. In taking evidence, I avoid, if I can, calling two witnesses, — especially scientific witnesses, — to prove the same fact. A man in large business, with much trouble in domestic affairs, locked himself into one of the rooms of his house, and was heard groaning, as if in pain. His servants sent to a friend of his, who came at once, with a neighboring Medical Practitioner. They broke open the door, and found him dead. In the bed-room he had just left, they found a glass with fluid, which seemed to them, beyond doubt, to be a solution of Strychnia. The Gentleman's Solicitor offered to bring the Practitioner, who had attended him, to prove the weakened state of his mind. I told him