57 To the Secretary, Local Government Board. — Referring to the Coroners Act, 1887, that a Coroner shall in certain cases summon a Jury for enquiry, I beg the favor of your informing me whether any special instructions are issued by the Local Government Board for Medical Officers of Health giving information to the Coroners, in any of such cases coming to their knowlege. The reason for asking the question now, is that a man was lately admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary here, dying the same day, with symptoms of ' Blood-poisoning,' from injuries supposed to have been received by him from cattle, or dead meat, in the course of his work as a farmer's, or butcher's porter. I have been informed that one of the Medical Officers of the Infirmary went to the farm, where the man had been at work, to learn whether the cattle there were in health, or not. A medical Certificate, that .he died from 'Cellulitis of arm, Septicemia, and Syncope,' was sent from the Infirmary for registration, — the death was registered, — and the body removed, and buried, with- out my knowlege, and without communication to me from the Registrar of deaths, or the Officer of Health. 21 November, 1888. To the Chairman of the Committee. — On the 15th of April, I called the attention of the Secretary to the want of information in the notice sent to me on the death of a Patient. I beg the attention of the Committee to the notice sent last week. No information is given under the heads of — Age, — Time of death, — or Circumstances of death, — and the only information under the head of,— Injury, — or disease, — is ' Railway Accident.' The name of Mr. S. is given as, — Medical Officer in charge of the case, — though he did not see the Patient when alive. The name of Mr. P. is given as, — Resident Medical Officer in attendance. Mr. P. was not present at the Inquest. He must have known that the case was one in which an Inquest is required, and that the Inquest would be held on Friday afternoon. It can not be doubted that he knew also that it would be at the hour at which • * . . . f