30 a Medical Practitioner, and died at his house within the City, before he saw the child. The body was taken home by the Nurse. The Registrar refused to register the death without directions from the Coroner. For some reasons, which I could never understand, the Coroner for the district did not hold an Inquest. The body was afterwards taken to a house in the City ; and, as it lay there, it became my duty as.the Coroner of the City, to summon a Jury, and to hold an Inquest. It is not generally thought good policy for persons in public stations, and for professional persons, to be too forward in calling attention to acts of others, suggesting neglect or improper discharge of duties. Questions, un- profitable in discussion, can always be raised, without a knowlege of the attending circumstances, and charges can easily be made, of neglect and misconduct, or of mistakes. Public attention was directed to a case, — and complaint made to the Town Council that the Inquest had been held too soon after the death. One day, about 12 o'clock, walking in the public Street, I saw a carriage waiting on the other side of the Street, at the office of a Solicitor. At the same moment, he came out, and came across to me, informing me that a Gentleman was just then dead suddenly at his Counting-house, within a hundred yards of where we were standing. He asked when the Inquest would be held. I said that I would be ready: but that the hour would depend upon whether a Jury could be in attendance. I went to the Town Hall, opposite to the Gentleman's Counting-house where the body was lying, and I met the Summoning Officer. He said that a Jury could attend at 3 o'clock; and that he would summon them. I then told the Solicitor that the Inquest would be at 3 o'clock. He asked what evidence would be wanted ; and he undertook to have witnesses in attendance. The Inquest was held accordingly ; and within less than four hours of the death. Some persons think the Coroners do not carry the enquiry far enough ; that scientific evidence, — medical especially, — ought always to be taken, and the body opened, and examined, at the wish of Medical men, without reference to