11 his professional education he was admitted a Licentiate, and in due course a Fellow, of the College of Physicians. He was one of the ' Elects' of the College, —a select number of the Fellows, who then had the duty of electing one from among themselves to the higher office of President of the College. By nature, as well as by early taste, he was little inclined to seek the distinction of high office and public life; and he declined the offer which was pressed upon him, to take the office of President of the College. He was a man of great and acknowleged skill in his profession, and much respected by his professional brethren, and all who were acquainted with him. In the early days of the Medical School, his teaching was sought, and much valued by a large and atten- tive class of pupils. Dr. Hue was a good French scholar, and a ready and effective speaker in that language, and in English. On the occasion of a festival at the Hospital, when the Baron Hcurtc- loup was present as a guest, and his health was given as a toast to the assembled company, hesitating to rise in acknowlcgc- mcnt of the compliment, and to express his thanks in suitable terms in English, he stated the difficulty to Dr. Hue. who was sitting near him. with his own \\i*h to speak, if he might be allowed, in French, — a language more familiar to him. Dr. Hue offered to give his words in English; and, rising with him, Dr. Hue rendered off-hand into English, each sentence, as it was delivered by Baron Hcurteloup in French. Upon resigning office as one of the Physicians to St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital, he was appointed by the Governors 'Honorary Consulting Physician,'—being the first of the Medical Officers of the Hospital on whom the distinction was conferred. Dr. Hue died in June 18G1, in his 83rd year, in Bedford Square, in the house in which he had resided for several years. He was buried at the Foundling Hospital, an Insti- tution in the affairs of which he had taken an active p.irt for many years of his life.