21 a Medical Practitioner in refusing to give a certificate of death. To H. M. Secretary of State : — In June last a Child, taken by Railway to B., died suddenly at the Station on arriving there. The body was brought to Oxford, and buried privately in the City, within my jurisdiction as Coroner. Six weeks afterwards, I heard of the death. I was unwilling to dig up the body, without evidence of criminal neglect on the part of those who took charge of the Child. Upon communicating with the Coroner, from whose district the body had been removed, I was informed that he knew nothing about it: notice had not been given to him. Considering that it is the duty of all persons about the deceased to give immediate notice of such a death to the Coroner, and that Officers of a public Company are not, as far as I know, exempt from the general law which lays the duty on private persons, I take the liberty of respectfully submitting that every case of death on a Railway, — in a carriage or at a Station, — ought to be reported to the Coroner by the Officers of the Company without delay; and that this state of the law should be brought to the knowlege of the Managers of all the Railways. Coroners are bound under certain Statutes to give notice of deaths to different public Officers ; and penalties can be inflicted for acts of disobedience. But there are not, as far as I know, any means, — Statutory or otherwise — by which obedience to the general law can be enforced on the Managers of Railways. The delay in bringing this before you arises from the time taken in learning who was the Coroner for the district of B., the refusal of persons to give information when application was made to them, and my attendance at a meeting of the Society of Coroners, whose concurrence I wished to have in bringing this before you. 17 May, 1892. From the Under-Secretary of State. — I am directed by the Secretary of State to acquaint you that he has carefully considered your letter of the 17th ult., drawing attention to