42 Cases of death after Vaccination are sometimes brought to the notice of the Coroner, — almost the only cases, where the performance of a Surgical operation becomes the subject of his enquiry. It is the only instance of a Surgical operation undertaken by authority of the Legislature. Most Coroners would be satisfied with a report from the Surgeon. But, while there is so strong a feeling among the poor and ignorant against vaccination, and against the operation, it may be well to let the cases come before a Jury, in a public enquiry. The presence of the Surgeon, who performed the operation, will, of course, be required. [M. M. C. II. 2.] There are cases of death from Poison, sometimes running a short course, popularly known as Delirium tremens, or under a slower, but equally fatal, form, —' certified,' and ' registered ' as Alcoholism, — a barbarous word, Arabic made Greek, and concealing the fact of the deceased having been poisoned by Brandy. The poison is taken voluntarily ; the death is by Suicide. The Registration, and the Certificate, — as in other cases of ' un-natural death,' — are unjustifiable in law : the same may be said of the Burial, — without the knowlege of the Coroner. Cases of doubt may arise, and questions, requiring Medical evidence. A young man, a hard drinker, drunk every day for a week, and threatening to kill his Wife, was sent to Prison, for want of sureties. Two days afterwards, the Governor, — a man who had seen much of such cases, — thought the Prisoner was suffering from Delirium tremens ; and he called the attention of the Medical Officer to the case. He recog- nized the symptoms of Delirium tremens, though not severe in character. In two days more the man died suddenly,— not an unexpected end in Delirium tremens. At the Inquest, the Medical Officer gave this evidence, with his opinion that the man's death was from disease of the heart, caused by intemperance. After the Inquest, I was informed that the man had fallen from a horse ; that he had bleeding from the ear, and was insensible, after the fall, for two hours. He sold the horse; and got drunk with the money he received. This was not known to the Police, nor to the Officers of the Prison. No opportunity was offered at the