38 of Potassium of Chemists. The man was a Photographer: he used it in his business: and he had several bottles of it in his house. The questions at the Inquest were, — When he died; overnight, or next day? from natural causes? from violence ? from drink ? from poison ? A light had been seen through the window in the bed-room by a neighbor, early in the morning: the doors and windows were all fast on the inside: he was not drunk, when last seen: he was not known to have any constitutional disease likely to end suddenly. The Jury wished the body to be opened. The Medical Practitioner, who examined the contents of the drinking glass, found the same poison in the stomach, in a quantity more than enough to destroy life. There was not any appearance of death from constitutional disease. Cases of sudden death, or death unexpected, and the cause not known, — where a Medical Practitioner has not been in attendance in the last illness, — where symptoms of illness have not been observed, or have been neglected, sometimes concealed, though known, — where the deceased was not thought to be the subject of disease likely to end suddenly, — where he died without a friend, or other person, present in his last moments, — where he died in the street, or in a place of public resort, — where he was found dead, or insensible when first seen, — come under the • notice of the Coroner, and under the Coroners Act require an Inquest. Such cases in grown persons are more frequently seen in diseases of the heart, the lungs, or the brain, — less frequently in diseases of the kidnies: in advanced life, as in early childhood, from general weak- ness, (asthenia,) — failure of the powers of life under trifling causes. Life suddenly stops, under overexertion, or unac- customed exercise, under a fit of excitement, of anger, of fear, under an attack of bodily pain, under exhaustion for want of accustomed food, under the increased cold between midnight and sun-rise. The Patient faints, . . without constitutional power to rally, as the attack, or the urgency of the occasion, passes off. In these cases, where the death is sudden, — except perhaps in diseases of the kidnies, — some history of symptoms can generally be given by