27 afforded for burial without Inquest. It may be doubted whether, in all cases, the family of a deceased person wish that the cause of death should be recorded in a public register. It is a defect in the printed forms supplied to Medical Practi- tioners that no opportunity is given, — and they are not asked, — to state whether the symptoms named in the Certi- ficate as the cause of death, are the result of natural causes. The symptoms are in many cases certified, and registered, as being the cause of death, without reference to the disease, or injury, which was the cause of the symptoms. Sometimes the handwriting is such, that Registrars, and others, have a diffi- culty in reading the outlandish words given as the cause of death. The particulars necessary for registration are required from the relations, or other persons in attendance during the last illness, with the Certificate of the Medical Practitioner, stating his opinion of the cause of death. In the case of an Inquest, the Coroner gets the particulars from the witnesses, and sends them to the Registrar. This being the law, it seemed to me that the same evidence ought to be brought to the Jury. In Inquests at the Radcliffe Infirmary, I required that the Nurse, or other person present at the time of death, should come before me ; and that the Physician or Surgeon, who had the Patient under his charge, should attend, to prove the cause of death. Being afterwards in communication with persons connected with the Registrar General's office, I found their opinion to be that, if the particulars required for registra- tion were proved by credible testimony, to the satisfaction of the Jury, the Coroner need not, as a general rule, call for other evidence. Upon this, I was satisfied to take the opinion of the Physicians and Surgeons from the House-Surgeon; and so to release them from attendance at the Inquest. But, in a criminal case, such testimony, given at second hand, is not evidence. The medical man, who undertook the charge of the deceased, and prescribed the treatment, ought to attend, and give evidence in the Coroner's Court, — that his evidence may be taken in writing, for production at the trial of the person charged. At the Hospitals in London, and in the large towns, no objection is made by the Physicians and