25 registered upon certificates given by Officers of the Radcliffe Infirmary, without notice to me, I brought to the notice of the Registrar General, as cases of death registered, instead of being referred to me. A man working among cattle, and employed by the slaughtermen and butchers, was admitted into the Radcliffe Infirmary, with symptoms of' blood-poisoning'; and died the day he was admitted. The certificate usual in a case of natural death was given, for registration; and the body was removed, and buried, without my knowlege. The same was done in two other cases of' blood-poisoning' which happened there. A child, sick after a fall in its father's house, was attended by two Medical Practitioners ; and died after some three or four weeks' illness. The fact of the fall, and that the symptoms which led to the death, were caused by the fall, was known to both Practitioners. Yet a certificate of the cause of death was given, and the death was registered, without mention of it. In these cases, the Medical men knew there was {reasonable cause to suspect,' that the Patients died, — in the words of the Coroners Act, — ' either a violent or an unnatural death,' being cases in which the Coroner is required by that Act to summon a Jury, and hold an Inquest. In such cases, and in cases where the true cause of death is concealed, or misrepresented, at the time of registration, and where, therefore, reasonable cause of suspicion exists, I have been unwilling to have the body dug up, unless it is likely that some measure of public good will be gained by it. I am not sure that the excuse would be allowed, on complaint made of the Coroner's neglect. No discretion, — whether or not there shall be an Inquest, — is now left to the Coroner. It may be a question, whether Medical men, in giving a certificate for registration in such cases, do not lay themselves open to prosecution for helping the burial of a body without the Inquest required by law. Once I had a body dug up, — a new-born child, — which had been buried without any religious ceremony ; and once