74 the Inquest. In none of the cases has any objection or complaint been made, — except by Managers of the Infirmary. No member of the Committee, no Officer of the Infirmary, or other person, has asked, why a body was moved : and the only explanation, — if it may be called so, — before these remarks, is the letter to the Committee, nine months before the first body was moved. The two Coroners for the University have the jurisdic- tion over bodies of Members of the University lying dead in the four hundreds in and around the City. There are not on an average more than two Inquests a-year. Bodies under this privilege have been, several times within my knowlege, moved from one place to an other by direc- tion of the Coroners; and since the Mortuary has been provided, three bodies of Members of the University have been taken there for Inquest. Unless the law is as here stated, the greater part of the buildings called Mortuaries, — the creation of modern Statutes, — often at a distance from the place where death happened, or where the body was when the death was reported to the Coroner, must be useless; and it must be illegal to use them for most of the purposes for which they have been provided throughout the country at the public expense. The damp and unwholesome cell at the Infirmary,— made more so by the wall lately raised on the adjoining land, at the South side, — in which the body is placed, not always in decent condition when presented to view, the place sometimes crowded with other bodies, — is not, in my opinion, a fit place for attendance of Jurors, not always persons familiar with such sights. Moreover, the bodies, in the keeping of Officers of the Infirmary, are not safe from violence. Besides, after being sworn at the room where the Inquests are held, close to the Mortuary, the Jury ought not, without good and sufficient reason, to be put to the trouble and delay of going to the Infirmary to view the body. If the Coroner has not the power to move the body, has he the power to make the Jury go to a distance to view it?