41 Disease of the kidnies advances, slowly or rapidly, without much observation of strangers ; not so often, without the opinion of a Medical Practitioner being sought by the Patient. The Chamber-maid at an Inn, went to bed one night, in good health as supposed; and was found dead in the morning. The Practitioner, who had attended her, reported to the Coroner that she was suffering under disease of the kidnies in an advanced state, and that suddenness of death was a common end of such a case. There was a rumor of some scuffle in the Coffee-room the evening before; and the Coroner required that the body should be examined. I assisted the Medical Practitioner at the examination. There was no appearance of violence: the kidnies were, as supposed, in an advanced state of disease, sufficient to prove the cause of sudden death. It happens sometimes that a Patient while taking chloro- form for the purpose of undergoing a Surgical examination, or a Surgical operation, dies suddenly, or dies during the operation, or before recovering from the effects. When such a case becomes publicly known, and is brought to the knowlege of the Coroner, it is, I believe, generally expected that an Inquest should be held. Soon after I was appointed Coroner, I was present in the Hospital here during a Surgical operation, performed, — as usually the case, — while the Patient was under the influence of chloroform. When the operation was over, I left the House, — before the Surgeon and his Assistants had completed the dressing of the wound. Soon after I got home, the House-Surgeon came, and informed me that the Patient died before being removed to bed. It Was a case where a Patient died during medical treatment by qualified Practitioners, under their personal direction, and in their presence : there was no concealment, no mystery made, no suspicion raised. Though the question was proper, to be submitted to me as Coroner, I did not think it necessary to summon a Jury for enquiry. The Chairman of the Committee afterwards at a Public Meeting at the Hospital, gave his opinion publicly, that an Inquest was refused, ' at the sacrifice of the rights of the Patient and his friends, the public, and the Institution.'