31 the opinion of the Coroner and the Jury. Others think the enquiry is carried too far. Some think there need not be any Inquest at all: some think there ought to be more Inquests. At present, the law leaves it to the discretion of the Coroner, — except in the cases named in the Coroners Act of 1887. The enquiry before the Coroner is for the purpose of finding whether the death was caused by the visitation of God, or by the act of man, and whether any one is to blame. The evidence is often defective ; and it is not always trustworthy. The Coroner receives it, and records it, if admissible. It is not his duty to collect evidence. It is the duty of every one having knowlege of the circumstances, to give information at once to the Coroner, or his Officers. ' It is an offence against the law,' said the Lord Chancellor Selborne,' to delay giving notice to the Coroner.' On some occasions I have been asked by the Jury to censure a witness, for conduct which became public during the enquiry. I told the Jury that such a thing was not within the power of the Coroner's Court. Before being censured, a witness, — equally with other people, — ought to be heard in his defence. The Coroner has no authority in such a matter. The duty of the Coroner and Jury is to find the cause of death ; and if it is from criminal violence or neglect, the question is to be referred to a Higher Court. In cases of suicide, questions have been put to me by the friends, about the burial. I told them that my authority, under the Registration Act, was all that was wanted. The Coroner has nothing to do with the religious ceremony, or other proceedings after the Inquest. I have only once been away for as long a time as two days together; and on that occasion, I came back the day after I went from home, to hold an Inquest which I should have held before I left home, but for the delay at the Radcliffe Infirmary, in failing to send notice of the death of a Patient there. I live within five minutes' walk of the Infirmary on one side, and the Summoning Officer within five minutes on the other, yet notice was not given to me till 40 hours after the death of the Patient.