26 I had a drain opened, for recovery of the body of a new-born child, which had been pushed there, to conceal the birth. Some Inquests have been held on young children dying without medical attendance. In several, the life of the Child was insured for a small sum of money, — yet, a sum larger than is wanted for the expenses of burial. The law requires that Parents shall provide medical attendance, with other necessaries ; and in cases of doubt, or suspicion, it is desirable that a Jury should give an opinion whether neglect of duty has led to the death. A case where the death was from natural causes is worth attention. It was reported that a Boy died from violence received at school from the Master. Upon enquiry of the Medical Practitioner who knew the Boy, I was informed that he died from Consumption. The Practitioner had not heard of an injury; and he did not believe there had been any. With this I was satisfied: and I gave my opinion that an Inquest was not necessary. The neighbors, however, were not satisfied: they believed the report. I then directed the Practitioner to examine the body, to see whether there were any signs of injury ; and to open the head, and also the chest, to find what was the cause of death. At the Inquest, it appeared that the last day the Boy was at School, there was some rough play among the Boys.; and this Boy was among them. The Master was not in the room at the time; and he did not hear of it till afterwards. The medical evidence showed that there was not any appearance of injury; and that there was not any disease beyond what is usually seen after death in consumption. In many cases, the cause of death certified and registered is as vague, and as far from representing the cause, as in the old Bills of Mortality. In the tabular list of deaths at the Radcliffe Infirmary, printed in the Report for 1887 the cause of death in 35 is from exhaustion, in 7 from asphyxia, in 3 from syncope, in 3 from shock, and in 2 from collapse: in 1888, the cause of death in 27 is from exhaustion, in 5 from asphyxia, in 2 from syncope, and in 2 from shock, — all, in plain English, from want of breath. [M. M. C. 367.] The system of Registration is defective ; and facility is