48 and Gentlemen, their children, and others, well able to pay, are now regularly admitted. Admission is refused to those who are poor and objects of charity. The Rules against the admission of cases of Small-pox were rescinded in 1848, and renewed in 1855. The Local Board have taken charge of such cases since 1871: and a Hospital has been built for them in the A. Road. But the present buildings have not accommodation for other cases, to be under treatment at the same time with cases of Small-pox. If anything is done with the drains, do not forget the dead- house. There is something wrong with the place, or the drains from it. When those rooms were built, it was said they were put there, till a more convenient place was found. 24 February, 1888. To the Same. — To continue the subject of our conversation, — the defects in the Infirmary, and how to supply them. The question of rebuilding may be dismissed at once. The ground on which the building stands is too limited to allow of putting upon it a Hospital, with the necessary outbuildings, large enough for the wants of the district. Besides, as I understand, a large piece of the ground was given for £ purposes of recreation,' and on condition that there should be no building upon it. If the land on which S. Hall stands, with the shops in the W. Road, had been bought when I suggested it 30 years ago, the Infirmary could have been rebuilt, and a second entrance might have been opened in W. Street. The Observatory will not give up a part of their land; and there is not now any way of getting land enough for a larger and more convenient set of buildings. The older part of the House is not badly planned for the purposes of a Hospital with a small number of beds. It was, however, built before the general introduction of water-closets ; it was built without baths, sculleries, and washing rooms, and without much thought of what was wanted for Nurses. Some years ago, a plan was proposed for raising the roof, and bringing forward the windows in the Attics in line with the other windows. This would have been an improvement to the