40 in medical language, .. 'all of a heap,' in English. In ' fainting,' as often seen, in young persons, as well as in older, the action of the heart is at rest for a time; and it returns, — in a person otherwise in health. The ' lipothymia,' ' deliquium,' or ' collapse,' is not fatal : the Patient 'comes round.' These causes in the heart are not always preceded by the warning, — the shortness of breath, the spitting of blood, the loss of flesh, the disinclination to exertion, which are popularly known as symptoms of disorder in the lungs, — symptoms which seldom escape the observation of neighbors. The Patient dies rapidly, if not suddenly, from want of breath, — the 'asphyxia' of nosology, — want of pulse, in English. The circulation of the blood does not go on through the disordered lungs: the action of the heart in pumping the blood is impeded ; the heart ceases to beat, and the pulse stops. A person, advanced perhaps in years, of failing power in body, is found dead in bed, after a heavy supper taken over-night. The stomach is distended, — loaded with a meal which it can neither vomit, nor digest; the action of the heart and lungs is impeded by the pressure from below, made by the unusual swelling of the stomach. The Patient dies from want of breath, . . he has been suffo- cated, — as much as if his breathing had been stopped by a cloth over his mouth and nose. It is a case of ' asphyxia.' A man, under my care, was about to take the vapor of chloroform for relief of a Rupture, when vomiting set in, — a thing of frequent occurrence in a Patient with rupture. Part of what was cast by the stomach was drawn into the wind-pipe ; and he died at once, in my presence. A man received a fracture of the leg, during a scuffle in a Public House. Every thing connected with the injury was in progress toward recovery. One day, when taking his dinner, he began coughing rather freely; and a piece of his plateful ' went the wrong way,' and was drawn into the wind- pipe. He died at once, choked by the sudden obstruction to his breathing. The Surgeon gave evidence that the cause of death was not any way dependent on the injury received.