67 f a and had been on former occasions. The Jury desired me to bring this to the notice of the Committee. On 31st May (Tuesday) an Inquest was held on a lad (G. E. M.) whose body was brought to the House on Saturday; he having died as he was being taken there, after a gunshot wound of the head. His clothes were searched at the Infirmary ; and a paper with writing on it was taken from his pocket. The contents of this were made known to the newspapers on Saturday or Sunday. It was not brought to my knowlege till at the end of the Inquest on Tuesday, by which time the paper had become so dirty, that it was not easy to read the writing on it. When it was seen at the Infirmary that the lad was dead, his body ought to have been moved to a place of safety, to wait my orders. The examination of the pockets ought to have been left for my Officer. If from any accidental cause, the paper had come into the hands of an Officer of the Infirmary, it ought to have been given to my Officer, without being shown to any one else. 19 July, 1892. To the House-Surgeon (Dr. D.). — To those who do not know what has been the behavior of House-Surgeons, Medical Officers and Governors, during the time I have held the Office of Coroner, it might seem a want of courtesy, if I failed to acknowlege the receit of the letter I have had from you, — a member of the same profession, my junior by many years. What I brought to the notice of the Com- mittee, was that a Certificate of a death after violence had been sent for registration, and that no notice was sent to me. I pointed out that the Certificate had been given without such a knowlege of the Patient as a Practitioner ought to have, when he puts his hand to a document of that importance; and that the cause of death there stated was different from what was afterwards given in evidence at the Inquest. The lengthened education of the day must be at fault ; if it does not teach what it is necessary for a Practitioner to know of Inquests and Registration. 22 July, 1892.