30 about Insurance, or for satisfaction of the Police,— the usual authority from the Coroner for the burial can be withheld, till these, or other, questions, not within the cognizance of the Coroner's Court, are settled. When there is cause to suspect violence, — whether, or not, a Medical Practitioner has seen the deceased during life,— I require that the body shall be opened, . . . that evidence may be forthcoming, that the death was caused by the violence supposed, and not from other causes, or from disease. Some Judges at the Assizes have refused to allow a Prisoner to be convicted of Murder, or Manslaughter, without such evidence being produced at the trial: and in the absence of such evidence, the Prisoner has been discharged. When the deceased has been seen by a Medical Practi- tioner once only, or only in his last moments, I seldom call the Practitioner as a Witness. It does not seem right to ask a Professional man for an opinion, when he has not had a sufficient opportunity of forming it: nor can the opinion, so formed, be satisfactory as evidence in the enquiry. ' I have not much faith in a Certificate given by a person who has not seen the deceased before death,' was said by the late Registrar General, Major Graham. In cases of Death from violence, where the deceased is not sensible, or does not live long enough to be able to describe it, a sufficient description of the injury and its effects, — if not apparent at the view, — can generally be had from those who saw him first, or soon after death. If the evidence shows that the violence was accidental, and that nobody was to blame, I leave the case to the Jury: medical evidence is not wanted, in addition. Questions arise in the case of the bodies of young children, found dead, — sometimes in a state of decom- position. In these I require that the body shall be viewed by a Medical Practitioner; and if there is any appearance of violence, he proceeds to open the body, and make such an examination as he finds necessary. The examination may also be necessary to show whether, or not, the child was born alive.