29 sent into the Infirmary for treatment in illness away from their friends. On this occasion, the Committee named Dr. C. and Mr. M. Neither of them saw the Patient. When a Patient dies in a Lunatic Asylum, in a retreat for Habitual Drunkards, or in a house licensed for the care of Infant Children, a statement of the case, and of the cause of death, is required by Act of Parliament to be sent to the Coroner by the Superintendent, or the Practitioner in attend- ance. It has been suggested that the same should be done when a Patient dies in a Hospital. The Coroner is the only independent authority standing between the Managers of those Institutions and the persons in their keeping. That the Coroner of the City is an Officer independent of the Governors of the Radcliffe Infirmary, and superior to them, was an objection publicly made by the Chairman of the Committee of Management ; and at a public Meeting at the Infirmary, one of the Governors openly suggested, — without reproof from any one present, — that Patients were sent to Hospitals, for their bodies to be experimented upon. A Medical Practitioner complained in a ' newspaper that a certificate given by him was refused by the Registrar, when it ought to have been registered, that it was ' ignored,' and that the Inquest held was unnecessary. If he had been present, he would have seen his certificate produced, and accepted as evidence of the cause of death. If he had known what I and some of the Jury heard before the Inquest, I do not think he would have given the certificate, or that he would have wondered that the Registrar refused it. It is not desirable that the Coroner should be too ready to make public, in a newspaper or other places, the informa- tion he receives, with (may be) the scandals that reach him, and under which it becomes his duty to act. The Jury generally see and understand why they are called together : but, what satisfies them of the need of an Inquest, does not always reach persons who are not present. A case was brought before the Town Council on complaint of one of the Coroners for the County. A young child, living with its Mother, an unmarried woman, beyond the boundary of the City, being taken ill, was brought by a Nurse to