59 directions given by the Secretary of State point to a different course of action as desirable. 16 September, 1889. To the editor of the Oxford Chronicle. — My attention has been called to a letter in the Chronicle, published by order of the Committee of Management of the Infirmary, referring to the Inquest lately held there. The persons to ask why an Inquest was held are the friends of the deceased person. No such request has been made to me ; and I have no reason to think they are displeased that the case was in my hands. It does not appear that the letter from the Committee is published by the wish of the friends, or on their behalf. From information given, — which I then believed, and which I still believe, to be true, — it appeared that the young woman in question, after due notice given at the Infirmary, was admitted on Thursday about one o'clock, that she was not sensible when admitted, that she continued insensible to the time of her death on Friday morning, and that she was not seen by any Physician or Surgeon of the Infirmary. After death, her friends were told at the Infirmary that a Medical Certificate could not be given without opening the body. Upon this, they put themselves in communication with my Officer; and it became my duty to summon a Jury for the purpose of enquiry. On taking the Jury to view, I saw that the body had been opened. This, as I have been informed, — and as I believe, — was done without the consent of the friends. During the proceedings at the Inquest, one of the gentlemen residing in the House, who had been examined as a witness, — after signing the depositions and retiring from the seat in front of the Jury, — asked whether he might put a question to me. I told him he must not; and that if he continued to interrupt the proceedings, he would be put out of the room. Before I left the room, I told him I was ready to hear, if he wished to say any- thing. He replied, that he did not wish to say anything. What passed in the House with the view of hindering the