ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 246 is not however supported by any muscular fibres; it rests on that part of the brim of the pelvis which corresponds with the interval between the contiguous borders of the psoas and pectineus muscles, separated from the bone merely by the prolonged part of the fascia iliaca, which passes down behind the vessels. As the vein descends it gradually sinks backwards, coiling round the artery, so that on reach- ing the popliteal space, it is situated to the outer side and behind that vessel. The crural nerve, at its exit from the abdomen, lies about three quarters of an inch to the outside of the artery, being separated from it by the breadth of the psoas muscle; but when the muscle sinks backwards to- wards the trochanter minor, two or three branches of the nerve incline towards the artery, and accompany its sheath for some way; of these the largest, which from its ultimate distribution is called nervus saphenus, pierces the sheath and lies on the superior and external side of the artery, during the middle part of its course, whilst the vein is situ- ated posteriorly and internally for the same extent. This nerve does not accompany the artery and vein as they pass backwards through the adductor magnus ; it continues di- rectly downwards to the inner condyle of the femur, and may be found between the tendons of the gracilis and sar- torius muscles. Branches of the Femoral Artery. 272. The femoral artery gives off its chief branches in the superior part of its course, whilst it is yet uncovered by muscle. Some of these, small and unimportant, are distri- buted to the inguinal glands and adjacent muscles; others, though small, have received names, and require a separate notice, viz. the external pudic (superior and inferior), the superficial epigastric, the superficial circumflexa ilei, and finally a branch of considerable size, the profunda femoris. 1. The external pudic arteries (arteria pudenda externa) arise either separately, or by a common origin, from the internal side