.ADDUCTOR LONGUS. 203 inner side of the tuberosity of the tibia on the same plane with the semi-tendinosus, and under the expanded tendon of the sartorius. Direction—vertical; at the lower extre- mity it inclines forwards to the point of attachment: struc- ture, aponeurotic superiorly, tendinous in the inferior third, and fleshy in the rest of its extent: relations—its inner surface is covered by the fascia lata, except a small part in- feriorly, which is separated from it by the sartorius; the external rests against the adductor longus, magnus, and semi-membranosus, the knee joint, and its internal lateral li- gament. 219. The adductor longus {adductor primus, Douglas; moyen adducteur, Bichat; pubio-femoral, Chauss; spini-pu- bio-femoral, Dumas) is situated at the superior and inner part of the thigh. Form—flat and irregularly triangular. It arises from the external surface of the angle of the pubis, be- tween its spine and symphysis, and is inserted into the middle third of the linea aspera, between the vastus internus, and adductor magnus. Direction—downwards, outwards, and backwards : structure—tendinous at its origin, fleshy in the middle, aponeurotic inferiorly. From the aponeurosis se- veral fibres are detached, which unite with those of the adductor magnus : relations—its anterior surface is covered by the fascia lata, sartorius, and crural vessels; the pos- terior rests on the two other adductor muscles. The ex- ternal border is parallel with the pectineus, (a small portion of the adductor brevis being observable behind and be- tween them), the inner border, which is much the longest, is in apposition with the gracilis. 220. The adductor brevis (adductor secundus, Douglas ; petit adducteur, Bichat; sous-pubio-femoral, Chauss.; Du- mas) is situated at the upper and inner part of the thigh. Form—nearly triangular, compressed above, from side to side, below from before backwards. It arises by a narrow ori- gin, beneath the preceding muscle, from the external surface of the pubis, and is inserted into the oblique line leading from