259 PLANTAR ARTERIES. Placed at first above the abductor pollicis, and afterwards between it and the short flexor, it gives branches to both, and also sends a branch, which inclines towards the inner border of the foot, and communicates with some of the dorsal arteries. On reaching the extremity of the first metatarsal bone, the internal plantar artery, considerably diminished in size, terminates by running along the inner border of the great toe, anastomosing with its digital branches. The direction of the artery corresponds with that of the line which separates the internal from the middle set of plantar mus- cles. 2, The external plantar artery, in size and direction, appears to be the continuation of the external tibial. In its course it at first inclines outwards and forwards, to reach the base of the fifth me- tatarsal bone, where it changes' its direction, arching inwards across the foot, to gain the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones, where it receives the communicating branch from the dorsal artery, which completes the plantar arch. The vessel first passes between the calcaneum and the abductor pol- licis, then between the flexor brevis digitorum and flexor accesso- rius ; as it turns forwards it lies in the interval between the former muscle and the abductor of the little toe, corresponding with the line separating the middle from the external portion of the plan- tar fascia ; but its transverse part is deeply covered by the flexors of the toes and the lumbricales. The external plantar artery gives off during its course branches in every direction. Of these some pass outwards over the border of the foot, and anastomose with the dorsal arteries, others go back to supply the parts in the hollow of the foot, and several down to the fascia, integument and subcu- taneous cellular substance ; these are too irregular to admit of being named or described ; but from its superior and anterior sur- faces, branches are given off, which deserve notice. The perfo- rating; branches, (rami perforantes) three in number, pass upwards between the metatarsal bones, through the posterior extremities of the dorsal interosseous muscles, and on reaching the dorsum of the foot, inosculate with the metatarsal arteries. The digital branches {rami digitales) are four in number, and from the order in which they arise from the arch, they are named first, second, &c. a. The first digital branch curves outwards, to gain the fibular border of the fifth metatarsal bone; for it will be re- s 2