ILIACUS. 207 223. The psoas parvus (prelombo-pubien, Chauss.) is situated (when it exists, which is not always the case) along the inner side of the psoas magnus. Form—long and thin. It arises from the body of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebras, and soon ends in a flat tendon, which passes along the anterior and inner side of the psoas magnus, to be inserted into the ileo-pectineal eminence. Direction— vertical: structure—muscular and tendinous : relations— resting on the psoas magnus in the whole of its extent, it is covered by the fascia iliaca, the iliac and renal vessels, and at its origin by the diaphragm. 224. The iliacus (iliacus interims, Albinus. Soemm.; ilio-trochantinien, Chauss.) is situated in the iliac fossa, which it fills up. Form—flat and somewhat radiated. It arises from the upper two-thirds of the iliac fossa, from the anterior two-thirds of the inner margin of the crista ilei as far as its two spinous processes, and posteriorly from the ileo- lumbar ligament. From these different origins, the fibres pass down, the greater number inclining obliquely inwards, to be inserted into the tendon common to this muscle, and the psoas magnus, some of them being prolonged into the oblique line which leads downwards from the lesser tro- chanter : structure—fleshy in almost all of its extent: re- lations—posteriorly with the ileum, and capsular ligament of the hip joint, anteriorly with the iliac fascia and anterior crural nerve, which separate it from the peritonaeum, with the eoecum at the right side, and with the sigmoid flexure of the colon on the left. Combined Actions.—The psoas and iliacus, when they take their fixed point above, can bend the thigh on the pelvis, and rotate the limb somewhat outwards ; the latter power being derived from the mechanical advantage given them by the projection of the tro- chanter minor. These muscles assist materially in maintaining the erect position of the body, in which case they take their fixed point at their insertion into the femur, and then act upon the pelvis and spinal column, drawing them forwards so as to keep