THE MAMMjE. 537 cretory ducts of the ovaria, before and a little beneath which they are situated. The attached extremity of each tube is narrow and cord-like, the other is broad, and divi- ded into a number of irregular processes, (fimbria:) one of which is longer than the rest, and attached to the cor- responding ovarium. The fimbriated border presents a fissure or opening, (ostium abdominale) into which the im- pregnated ovum is received at the moment of its liberation from the ovarium, and thence conveyed along the tube, which opens into the uterus by another aperture, (ostium uterinum.) At this point it may be observed that the se- rous membrane is in a manner continuous with the mucous, and consequently must be considered as interrupted, inas- much as there is a real hiius along the fissured edge of the tube. 600. The round ligament (ligamentum uteri teres) is a cord-like fasciculus of fibres, attached to the angle cf the uterus on each side, immediately before the Fallopian tubes. From this point it passes upwards and outwards to reach the internal inguinal ring, and, after having passed through the canal of the same name, reaches the forepart of the pubic symphysis, where its fibres become expanded, and united with the substance of the labium and mons veneris. 601. The mammae are accessory organs to the genital sys- tem, and when fully developed after puberty, present the ap- pearance of two rounded eminences, placed on the front of the thorax, resting on the pectoral muscles. In the centre of each projects a small conical body called the nipple, on which several foramina open that lead from the lacteal ducts. A coloured circle, or areola, surrounds the nipple, within which the skin is of a darker tinge than elsewhere. Be- neath the skin is deposited, in most cases, a considerable quantity of adipose substance, in which is lodged the pro- per substance of the gland. This will be found to consist of several lobuli, each being an aggregate of a number of granules. From the granules arise the radicles of the mi- V- / ■ a K' * ■ / 't ,