RECTUS—ITS SHEATH. 195 gin of the crista ilei for two-thirds of its length, from the fascia lumborum, and from the cartilages of the six last ribs. From these different points of origin the fibres pass horizontally forwards, and near the border of the rectus muscle they end in an aponeurosis, which joins with the posterior layer of the internal oblique, and together with it is inserted into the whole length of the linea alba ; the in- ferior fibres curve downwards, and are inserted into the crista of the pubis, and into the pectineal line. This inser- tion is so intimately connected with that of the internal ob- lique, that both together have received the name of the conjoined tendon, or aponeurosis, of these muscles: rela- tions—externally, with the obliquus internus; internally, with the fascia transversalis, which separates it from the peritonaeum: structure—muscular at the sides ; aponeurotic anteriorly and also posteriorly, where it is prolonged to the vertebral column, forming part of the fascia lumborum. 206. The rectus abdominis, (sterno-pubien, Chauss.) long and flat, is situated at the fore part of the abdomen, close to the linea alba; it arises from the anterior surface of the ensiform cartilage, and its external ligament, also from the cartilages of the sixth and seventh ribs, by separate fleshy points, and is inserted by a strong flat tendon into the crista of the pubis, its fibres being extended perpendicularly be- tween these points. They are however interrupted by ten- dinous intersections {linea: transversal) varying in number from three to five. One of these corresponds with the um- bilicus, another with the ensiform cartilage, the third inter- mediate between them; and if a fourth exists, it is placed below the umbilicus. These lines do not usually penetrate the whole substance of the muscle, and some of them ex- tend only half way across it. The sheath of the reetus. This muscle is enclosed in a sheath, which binds it firmly in its situation, and is formed by the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles, in the follow- ing manner : the aponeurosis of the internal oblique on ar- o 2