ELEMENTS OP ANATOMY. 598 venosus and arteriosus, the umbilical vein and arteries), which connect all the parts of the circulating system, gradually dimmish, and the placento-foetal arrangement approximates so nearly to the aorto-pulmonary, that the creature is prepared to pass from one mode of existence into the other without disturbance or injury to its yet tender and delicate organization. The most marked peculiarities of arteries reside in their middle coat, which has been variously named—“ proper”—“ muscular” —“ fibrous.” It consists of pale fibres, coiled obliquely round the circumference of the vessels, but none of them forming a com- plete circle. If an artery be stretched transversely, it will recoil and resume its original diameter; if elongated, it will retract. These are direct proofs of elasticity. When an artery no longer carries blood, as, for instance, when a ligature has been applied upon it, the part beyond the ligature will contract, its tube will become obliterated, and, finally, by an alteration in its mode of nutrition, will degenerate into a mere fibrous cord. This indicates a contractile power different from that resiliency which charac- terizes structures simply elastic, and may be termed contractility of tissue, to denote that it is in some sort a vital property. The coats of arteries resist the effects of maceration for a considerable time, and yield on decoction but little gelatine, and no fibrine: hence the structure of their middle coat has been assimilated to that peculiar substance called “ tissue jaune”—“ elastique,” which forms the ligamenta subflava of the vertebrae, and the cervical ligaments in the lower animals. These physical and chemical properties constitute a marked line of distinction be- tween the middle coat of arteries and muscle, but in some parti- culars, more especially in its vital properties, it manifests several points of resemblance to the muscular structure, so that it seems to constitute an intermediate link between it and the fibrous or fibro-cellular tissues. That property of arteries which has been just alluded to, and which enables them to contract towards their centre, without having been previously distended, has been the subject of many controversies amongst physiologists. It has been variously denominated, by different persons,—tonicity, vital force, contractility, &,c. The whole controversy may be reduced to this—are all the phenomena of extension and contraction that are