349 LATISSIMUS DORSI. that peculiar elastic band which serves to sustain the weight of the head in the lower animals. Structure—the trapezius is fleshy in the greater part of its extent, and tendinous at its attachments: relations—by its posterior surface with the skin, beneath which it lies in its entire extent; the anterior one covers part of the complexus, the splenii, levator anguli scapula?, the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus slightly, the rhomboidei, and part of the latissimus dorsi. Where the inferior fibres slide over the triangular surface between the base and spine of the scapula, in order to reach the upper border of the latter, a synovial bursa is interposed. 349. The latissimus dorsi (dorsi-lumbo-sacro-humeral, Dumas) occupies the whole of the posterior part of the lumbar region, and the lower half of the dorsal. Its form is triangular. It arises, 1, from the spinous pro- cesses usually of the six lower dorsal vertebrae, from all those of the lumbar region and of the sacrum; 2, from the external border of the crista ilei (its posterior third); 3, by fleshy digitations from the three or four last ribs, where they are interposed between similar processes of the obliquus externus. The tendinous fibres from the two first lines of origin, form by their inter-texture, or union, a broad aponeurosis, from which the fleshy fibres proceed, converging towards the axilla. Those from the dorsal vertebrae pass almost horizontally outwards, and all the rest with increasing degrees of obliquity, so that those from the ribs ascend almost vertically. By this convergence, the fibres form a narrow and thick fasciculus, which slides over the inferior angle of the scapula, from which it some- times receives a small accessory muscle. In this situation it rests on the teres major, which it accompanies towards the axilla, but gradually turns, as it were, on itself, so as to get to the anterior aspect of that muscle, and is inserted into the posterior border of the bicipital groove in the hu- merus. The flat tendon by which the latissimus dorsi is inserted becomes united, particularly by its lower border,