579 THE HEART—ITS VENTRICLES. the ventricle, where they are connected with the apices of the tricuspid valves, through the medium of several tendi- nous processes, called chorda: tendinece. The base of the ventricle is prolonged upwards, somewhat in the form of a funnel, where it gives attachment to the pulmonary artery. At the point of junction, three membranous folds are placed, called sigmoid valves. One border of these is at- tached at the line of union of the ventricle with the artery, the other is free in the cavity of the latter, and presents in its middle a small granule, called nodulus or corpus au- rantii. The tricuspid valve is so called from its being divided into three points : it is formed by processes of the lining membrane of the auricle and ventricle : along its margin are inserted the chordae tendineee. 631. The left auricle (sinus pulmonalis) is situated at the posterior part of the base of the heart, where the greater part of it is concealed by the pulmonary artery and the aorta, which overlap it, the auricular appendage alone being visible, without detaching these vessels, or inverting the position of the heart. When distended, it is of a square form, and into its angles open the pulmonary veins, those of the left lung being very close together. From its upper and left extremity projects the auricula, which is smaller, and less muscular than that of the right side. A slight depression may be observed in the septum auricularum, corresponding with the fossa ovalis; the rest of the surface being smooth and even. In the inferior part of the cavity is situated the auriculo-ventricular open- ing, the circumference of which gives attachment to the mitral valve. 632. The left ventricle (ventriculus aorticus) occupies the left border of the heart, about one-third of its extent appearing on the anterior surface, the rest being placed posteriorly, owing to the obliquity of the septum ventricu- lorum. Its cavity can be conveniently exposed by making two incisions through its wall, parallel with the septum, 2 p 2