ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 280 rentia. It should be observed, that anatomists are by no means agreed as to the precise distribution of the minute tubuli, which are convoluted in the interior of the glands. All the chyliferous vessels, as well as all the lymphatics that arise from the lower extremities, from the left side of the thorax, the left upper extremity, and the lateral half of the head and neck of the same side, pour their contents into a common trunk—the left, or great thoracic duct Uductus thoracicus sinister vel major, Soemm.). This is a tube simi- lar in structure, but larger than those which open into it, ex- tending from the second lumbar vertebra to the lower part of the neck, where it opens into the angle formed by the union of the left subclavian and jugular veins. The rest of the lymphatics, consisting of those which return the lymph from the left upper extremity, from the left half of the tho- rax, and the corresponding side of the head and neck, ter- minate in a short trunk, the right, or small lymphatic duct, which opens into the junction of the right subclavian and jugular veins. 296. The vessels of this order consist of two coats, of which the external one, dense and firm, is composed of cel- lular tissue, whilst the internal one is thin, smooth, and deli- cate, not unlike that of the veins. This membrane is also formed into folds along their course, which constitute valves that allow the contained fluid to pass freely on towards the common trunk, but effectually prevent its return. 297. The lymphatic vessels of the lower extremity, as well as in other parts of the body, are divisible into two sets, of which one is superficial, and accompanies the sa- phena vein, the other deep-seated, follows the course of the deep vessels. The superficial lymphatics are placed be- tween the fascia and common integument, and can be trac- ed from the dorsum of the foot, beginning at the digital phalanges. In this situation the minute branches ramify, forming an interlacement, from which ten or twelve vessels proceed, converging towards the fore-part of the inner