32 0 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. course of its fibres. When this is effected, the fleshy fibres can be dissected from the crista ilei, as far as its spine, and the whole plane of muscle turned over to the opposite side. The internal oblique is thus exposed for two-thirds of its extent. When its examination has been completed it is said to be difficult to de- tach it without injuring the muscle beneath it; yet, if in any part above the spine of the ileum, the fibres be rendered tense by press- ing the thumb and fore-finger of the left hand on them, and so straining the interval, they can be divided with perfect precision, without interfering with the subjacent muscle ; for the fibres are retracted when divided, and after about three parts are cut through, the cellular interval between the muscles begins to be perceived, which, with the difference in the direction of their fibres, affords an unerring guide to their line of separation. Near the spine and crista of the ileum, these muscles are also separated by the circum- flexa ilei vessels, and this is the part usually selected for cutting through the internal oblique, in order to expose the transversalis. When the line of separation is found, the muscular fibres should be detached from the crista ilei as far back as to where they end in the fascia lumborum ; after which they may be dissected from the cartilages of the ribs by insinuating the scalpel between the two planes of fibres, and then turning it so as to cut outwards. In this way the internal oblique muscle may be detached from its connexions, and reflected to the opposite side, exposing the trans- versalis. The sheath of the rectus muscle should in the next place be ex- amined. Its mode of formation has been fully described, (sect. 206). Its anterior layer may be divided in its whole length, by an incision drawn down from the margin of the thorax to the pubis, and reflected off the rectus. By inserting the handle of the scalpel beneath the outer border of the muscle, it may be raised, and the posterior layer of the sheath brought into view Lastly, if the muscle be cut across midway between the umbilicus and pubis, and the two parts drawn aside, the point at which the sheath is imperfect posteriorly, can be determined by pushing the handle of the scalpel against it, so as to separate it from the sub- jacent membrane. We have described (sect. 209,) a membranous prolongation from the internal oblique and transversalis muscles as forming an