ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 206 tinct class of muscles, the external rotators. If the whole limb be in the extended position, they will draw it inwards, the gracilis materially assisting. The femur is bent on the pelvis by the ac- tion of the pectineus, together with the adductor longus and bre- vis, thus conspiring with the psoas and iliacus. When the lower extremities are firmly fixed on the ground, these muscles contri- bute to maintain the body in the erect position, by taking their fixed point below, and thence acting on the pelvis. If this effort be continued, the pectineus and adductor longus may be made to flex the pelvis on the femur, by drawing the pubis downwards. 222. The psoas niagnus (prelombo-trochantinien, Chauss.) is situated along the side of the lumbar vertebrae, the mar- gin of the pelvis, and deeply at the superior part of the thigh. Form—thick and round at the centre, diminishing in size towards the extremities. It arises from the side of the body of the last dorsal vertebra, and of the four first lumbar, also from the transverse processes of the latter. From these attachments, which are separated by the branches of the lumbar plexus of nerves, the muscle passes across the brim of the pelvis, and beneath Poupart’s liga- ment, and ends in a tendon, which is inserted into the lesser trochanter. Direction—-vertical: structure—fleshy in the centre, tendinous at its insertion : relations—vary in the different parts of its extent; its posterior surface corre- sponds above with the vertebrae, and their transverse pro- cesses, in the middle—with the margin of the pelvis, farther down with the pubis, and capsular ligament of the hip joint; the anterior surface placed behind the peritonaeum, is in relation above with the ligamentum arcuatum and diaphragm, the renal vessels, the ureter, the vena cava on the right side, the aorta on the left; in the middle it is co- vered by the iliac fascia, farther down by the femoral artery, which rests upon it; and finally, by the deep seated vessels of the groin, inguinal glands, &c. In the pelvic region, the inner border is in contact with the iliac artery, the external* with the crural nerve.