TIIE DIAPHRAGM. 567 Actions.—The two planes of intercostals act simultaneously ; and as they decussate with one another, the ribs on which they act are made to move in the direction of the diagonal of the moving powers, that is to say, directly upwards, when the first rib is relatively the more fixed point; and downwards, when the last happens to be so. In drawing up the ribs, they slightly rotate their bodies, and evert their lower borders; they at the same time widen the intercostal spaces, and spread the ribs from one another somewhat like those of a fan. This they are enabled to do by the peculiar mode of attachment of the last rib, which is prevented from ascending with the rest by the manner in which the quadratus lumborum binds it to the ileum, so that it serves to spread or separate them from one another. 620. The diaphragm is a thin septum placed between the thorax and abdomen. It presents two lateral parts, united along- the middle line, but the parts are not sym- metrical, on which account it cannot be classed with the muscles of animal life, nor yet with those of organic: in structure, it forms a link intermediate between these two orders, and in function partakes of the properties of both, being involuntary in its ordinary actions, yet not altogether withdrawn from the control of the will. The diaphragm, viewed as a whole, consists of three portions, two of which are muscular—the third, which forms the connexion between them, being tendinous. The mus- cular fibres of each lateral part arise from the inner sur- face of the cartilages of the ribs, from the seventh to the twelfth inclusive; and in the interval between the cartilage of the twelfth rib, and the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, they arise from a fibrous band stretched between these points. This, by its lower border, is con- tinuous with the anterior lamella of the fascia lumborum fp. 197), and is sometimes termed ligamentum arcuatum. But Haller* very properly distinguishes this from another * leones Anatomicce.