109 THE TEMPORAL BONE. into the tympanum. The apex, rough and .irregular, is pierced by the carotid canal; this commences in the infe- rior surface before the jugular fossa, ascends at first perpen- dicularly, but soon turns horizontally forwards and inwards to the apex, where it ends. The anterior surface towards the apex is slightly excavated, where it corresponds with the Casserian ganglion of the fifth pair of nerves, is marked by a groove, the hiatus Fallopii, leading to the aqueduct of Fallopius, and an eminence indicating the situation of the su- perior semicircular canal. The aqueduct is an osseous canal lodged in the interior of the bone, and passing in an arch- ed direction outwards and backwards, to the stylo-mastoid foramen ; it transmits the portio dura, and receives, through the hiatus Fallopii, the vidian nerve. In the posterior surface may be observed the meatus auditorius internus, and above it a very minute one, the aquasductus vestibuli. On the in- ferior surface, which is exceedingly irregular, we observe, proceeding from within outwards, a rough surface, giving attachment to the levator palati and tensor tympani mus- cles, the carotid foramen, the jugular fossa, the vaginal and styloid processes, (the latter elongated, tapering, and di- rected downwards and forwards, the former thin and irre- gular, and placed between the glenoid fossa and the carotid foramen,) lastly, the stylo-mastoid foramen. The supe- rior border is grooved for the petrosal sinus ; in the ante- rior is situated the orifice of the Eustachian tube, which leads from the pharynx to the tympanum, and a canal which gives passage to the tensor tympani. The posterior border forms part of the foramen lacerum posterius, which is divided by a bony process into two parts, the anterior being for the transmission of the nervus vagus, the glosso- pharyngeal, and the spinal accessory nerves ; the posterior for the jugular vein. Before this bony process is a minute foramen, leading to the cochlea, called aquceductus cochlece. The temporal bone articulates with the parietal, malar, in- ferior maxillary, sphenoid, and occipital bones.