498 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. for a while, the union is incomplete, by reason of the adhesion of the margin of the skin to that of the membrane, so that a fistu- lous orifice remains. Now, does not this indicate the necessity of making the first incision through the skin, so that it shall not correspond with that in the membrane ? Might not the fistula be avoided by making a small oval flap, and reflecting it back, so as to expose and puncture the membrane ? When the operation is over, the flap may be restored to its place, without any fear of such an occurrence as that above noticed. The carotid artery may be exposed and tied as follows: the chin being turned to the opposite side, and pushed upwards so as to extend the parts, an incision, three inches in length, may be made along the inner border of the sterno-masto'ideus, beginning below the angle of the jaw, and continued down in the interval between the muscle just named, and the side of the larynx. The skin being divided, the platisma is to be cut through to the same extent, and afterwards the cervical fascia; in doing which a por- tion of the membrane should be pinched up by the forceps, and cut across, so as to make a small opening for the introduction of a director, on which it is to be slit up. This will expose the sheath of the vessels, which may be opened with the same pre- caution, care being taken to avoid the descendens noni. When passing the ligature, it will be found convenient to pinch up the inner margin of the divided sheath, with the forceps, and draw it forwards. The point of the needle may then be applied closely to the outer side of the artery, by which means, whilst the nerve and vein are excluded, the instrument will be made to slide smoothly between the artery and the sheath. When proceeding to expose the artery in the lower part of the neck, the incision through the integument should commence on a level with the cricoid cartilage, and extend for fully three inches, down towards the sterno-clavicular articulation. The skin, pla- tisma and fascia, being successively divided, the head must be slightly elevated, in order to relax the muscles, and allow of their being drawn aside, so as to bring the sheath of the vessels into view. When this is effected, the subsequent steps are the same as in the higher operation. The subclavian artery may be laid bare by adjusting the neck