584 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. pass off in pairs, viz. the phrenic, renal, capsular, sperma- tic, and lumbar. 1. The cceliac artery arises from the aorta, whilst between the crura of the diaphragm. In the erect position of the body its direction is horizontally forwards, but is not more than half an inch long. It is concealed by the lesser omentum, and lies close to the left side of the lobulus Spigelii, and above the pancreas, the two semi-lunar ganglia being in apposition with it on either side. It gives off three remarkable branches; viz. the coronaria ventri- euli, the hepatic, and splenic. a. Arteria coronaria ventriculi, the smallest of the three, in- clines upwards, and to the left side, to reach the cardiac orifice of the stomach. At this point some ramusculi are sent upwards on the oesophagus, which communicate with the aortic cesopha- gean branches ; others pass before and behind the cardiac extre- mity of the stomach, which they coil round. The continuation of the vessel inclines from left to right along the lesser curvature of the stomach, and inosculates with the pyloric branch of the he- patic artery. 2. Arteria hepatica passes upwards, and to the right side, to reach the transverse fissure of the liver, in which course it lies in front of the vena portae, and to the left of the hepatic duct. Previously to reaching the liver, it gives the following branches:— a. Arteria pylorica descends to reach the pyloric end of the stomach, and then turns along its lesser curvature, about the mid- dle of which it inosculates with the coronary artery: it is some- times a branch of the following:— b. Arteria gastro-duodenalis descends behind the duodenum near the pylorus, and on reaching the lower border of the stomach, changes both its name and direction. It runs from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach, between the lamellae of the great epiploon, assuming the name of g astro-epiploic a dextra, and inosculates with the gastro epiploica sinistra derived from the splenic artery. It gives several small branches to the duodenum and pancreas : one, larger than the rest, is called pancrecitico-duo- denalis, and takes rather a semi-circular course along the inner margin of the duodenum, distributing branches to it and the pan-