104 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. skull; broad behind, narrowed to a point before, of a trape- zoid figure, presenting two surfaces, four borders, and four angles. External surface.—Convex, presenting towards its centre a rough prominence, the occipital protuberance, the part between which and the superior angle is smooth. Extending obliquely outwards from the protuberance is a rough line, called the superior occipital ridge, to distin- guish it from another which is between it and the great fo- ramen, called the inferior occipital ridge; both are promi- nent, and give attachment to muscles, as also do the rough depressions between them. These are divided by a vertical, line extending from the foramen to the protuberance. The occipital foramen (foramen magnum) of an oval figure, gives transmission to the medulla spinalis, the vertebral ar- teries, and sub-occipital nerves. At each side, but nearer its anterior part, are situated the condyles, two smooth ob- long eminences, which articulate with the first vertebra; behind the condyles are usually found two foramina, which transmit each a vein and small artery, and before them are also two foramina, through which pass the lingual nerves. External to each condyle is a rough surface, for the inser- tion of the rectus lateralis muscle. The internal surface is marked by two lines, which inter- sect towards the central point, and mark off four fossae for the reception of the posterior lobes of the brain and lateral lobes of the cerebellum; the superior and two transverse lines are generally grooved, and correspond with the course of the longitudinal and lateral sinuses. The anterior bor- der of the foramen magnum is slightly excavated, and be- comes continuous with the basilar groove on which rests the medulla oblongata; within its margin are the condyloid fo- ramina, and external to it are two fossae, marking the ter- minations of the lateral sinuses. The thick triangular pro- cess which projects into the base of the skull from the fo- ramen, is called the basilar process; its margins are rough and contiguous to the pars petrosa; its under surface pre-