ARACHNOID MEMBRANE. G39 corresponds with the base and roof of the skull, and thence back- wards to the occipital protuberance. At the latter point it is re- flected over the tentorium, coating both its surfaces, and is thence prolonged down through the foramen magnum, still bearing the same relation to the fibrous membrane, as far as the extremity of the canal. At this point it is reflected forwards upon the medulla, which it invests in its entire extent. From the medulla oblon- gata, it is, as it were, guided by the corpora re3tiformia to the cerebellum, and having invested both its surfaces, reaches the processus ad testes, on which it is continued to the under surface of the cerebral hemisphere, and is thence prolonged to the vertex, that is to say, to the point from which we set out. When the continuity of surface is thus shewn at each side, the lateral parts of the membrane will be found continuous, by tracing them over the flat surfaces of the hemispheres, and down to the corpus callosum, so that if a transverse section were made of the cerebral hemispheres, the part of the membrane which is reflected from their flat surfaces over the corpus callosum, will re- present a cul-de-sac. Now if we trace the membrane along the posterior border of the corpus callosum, it will be found to turn beneath it, and to enter the ventricle thi'ough the fissure of Bichat. Again, the part of it which lies on the tubercula quadrigemina is also prolonged into the ventricles, lying, like the preceding, close on the cerebral substance, and constituting an investment for it. If the falx and tentorium have been left undisturbed, by drawing- aside the posterior cerebral lobes, a tubular process of arachnoid membrane will be observed passing out of the fissure, and directed backwards to the point at which the border of the falx joins with that of the tentorium. This process is prolonged from the velum interpositum, and incloses the venae Galeni, which are two small veins that return the blood from the plexus choroides, and pass from before backwards, inclosed within the velum, to terminate in the straight sinus. We have then within the ventricles to exa- mine a prolongation of the membrane which lines their surface, and another, which is in a manner free and unattached (velum in- terposition), each being continuous with the other, and both with the more extended serous surface already examined. That the membrane lines the roof of the ventricles may be proved by