470 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. being covered by the digastric, mylo-hyoid, and genio-hyoid muscles; and finally changes its course, to run directly for- wards beneath the tongue, where it assumes the name of ranine artery. Its branches are as follows : a.—The hyoid branch takes the direction of the os hyoides, run- ning on its upper border, and forming an arch by anastomosis with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side; it gives ra- musculi to the contiguous muscles and integument, b. One or two branches arise where the artery is deeply seated, and incline backwards and upwards, covered by the hyo-glossus muscle. These are called rami dorsales lingua, from their destination, for they supply the substance and upper part of the tongue, ramifying as far back as its root. At the anterior border of the hyo-glossus the lingual artery may be said to divide into c, the Ranine artery, which, in direction, is its proper continuation ; it proceeds for- wards beneath the lingualis muscle, and close to the outside of the genio-glossus, and finally, near the tip of the tongue, forms an arch, by anastomosing with ihe corresponding artery of the opposite side : and d, ihe sublingual artery, which passes between the genio- hyoideus and the sublingual gland, and after piercing the mylo- hyoideus, reaches the chin, where it ramifies by several ramusculi. In its course it supplies the sublingual gland, as well as the mus- cles passing from the chin and jaw to the tongue: it is sometimes larger than usual; in which case it will be found to supply the place of the submental branch of the facial. 523. 3. The facial artery (labialis vel maxillaris ex- terna) extends from the carotid artery along the side of the face, towards the root of the nose. It is usually the largest of the anterior branches, and arises higher up than the lingual. It ascends in rather a -winding course, so as to get deeply under cover of the jaw-bone, and then turns down, running in a groove in the upper surface of the submaxillary gland, as far as the margin of the jaw, over which it coils, to reach the side of the face. In its ascent, the artery is concealed by the platisma, the tendon of the digastricus, and the stylo-hyoideus; but where it rests on the external