MEDULLA SPINALIS AND OBLONGATA. t!07 skull, and rests on the basilar process of the occipital bone. On this is founded its division into medulla spinalis and medulla oblongata. In the adult human subject the me- dulla extends, from the lower border of the pons Varolii, as far as the first or second lumbar vertebra. In the foetal state it extends throughout the whole length of the spinal canal, conforming in this particular with a permanent con- dition in the lower animals, in which it reaches even to the caudal prolongation of the column. As the process of growth and development goes on, the relation of the medulla to its osseous canal varies, so that ultimately it reaches only to the point above stated. Keuffel, however, saw it in one case end opposite the eleventh dorsal ver- tebra, and in another, to reach as far as the third lumbar. Its form, considered in its general outline, is cylindrical; but its transverse diameter is somewhat greater than the antero-posterior, which gives it a flattened appearance in the former direction. The size of the medulla is not the same from one extremity to the other; neither does it in- crease or diminish uniformly. Three distinct swellings are observable in different parts of its extent. Superiorly it is enlarged where it is in apposition with the margin of the pons Varolii, but gradually diminishes as it approaches the foramen magnum. The second swelling corresponds with the interval between the third and sixth cervical ver- tebrae; the third with that between the tenth dorsal and the first lumbar. The inferior termination of the medulla is subject to considerable variety in different cases. It usually becomes fusiform, and terminates in a point, a few lines below the lumbar swelling: in other instances, it ends in a small bulb, slightly constricted at its centre : but any varieties of conformation presented by this portion de- serve little attention, as none of the nerves arise from it. 649. When detached from its connexions, the medulla is found to be divided into two lateral halves, by sulci ex- tending along its whole length, one situated on the an-