ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 256 by the hamstring muscles diverging to their insertions, and two by the heads of the gastrocnemius, converging to their point of union. Through the centre of this space, from its superior to its inferior angle, runs the popliteal artery; but to expose it fully, the mass of adipose matter by which it is concealed, must be dis- sected away, in order that its relation to the vein and nerve may be clearly discerned. To follow it up in the superior part of its course nothing more is necessary than to draw aside the flexor, or hamstring muscles, as they are merely connected by some cellular tissue, which retains them in apposition with one another. But as the lower part of the vessel is covered by the gastrocnemius, it will answer all purposes to divide the inner head of that muscle near the condyle, and then reflect and carry it outwards, which will ex- pose it as far as its bifurcation. 276. The posterior tibial artery, (tibialis postica) is si- tuated along the posterior part of the leg, between the su- perficial and deep muscles, being firmly bound down to the latter by the deep fascia. It extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it is continuous with the popliteal artery, (of which it may be regarded as the conti- nuation, from its direction and course) as far as the inner border of the calcaneum, where it terminates, by dividing into the plantar arteries. The course of the vessel is ob- liquely downwards and inwards, being placed above, midway between the bones of the leg, and below, between the inner ankle and the prominence of the heel. Its anterior sur- face rests successively on the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and inferiorly, for about two inches, on the tibia, separated from it by some cellular tissue; posteriorly it is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus, (the deep fascia being interposed) and farther down, by the fascia of the leg, as it is stretched from the tendo Achillis to the inner border of the tibia. On each side lie its ac- companying veins, and along its external, or fibular side, runs the posterior tibial nerve. It will be recollected, that in the hollow between the internal malleolus and the calca-