INTRODUCTION. 9 tory of any of the more important surgical operations. The performance of lithotomy, for instance, once so for- midable and so fatal, is now no longer so ; it is executed with a degree of facility and success that could scarcely have been expected, if the many difficulties and dangers that beset it be taken into account. The tying of arteries for the cure of aneurisms, has also been materially im- proved ; and the improvements have gone on step by step, in proportion as a more accurate knowledge has been attained of the structure and properties of vessels, and of the anatomy of those parts of the body which are the immediate seat of these operations. In the first cases treated by Mr. Hunter, four ligatures were passed round the vessel which was divided in the intervening space. Two of these were called safety ligatures, being intended to be drawn tight if the others gave way. It was soon however found that “ safety” meant in reality danger, in- asmuch as the ligatures, by being placed in contact with the coats of the vessel, acted on them as any foreign body must do,—they excited inflammation, ulceration, and con- sequent haemorrhage, thus inducing the effect they were intended to avert. The additional ligatures were therefore soon omitted, and several other improvements have been since adopted from time to time, all tending to simplify the process of cure, but each founded on some additional information acquired concerning the properties of the vas- cular system. In the mechanical or dissecting part of these operations, we can also recognize a corresponding improvement, as is evident from the greater ease and cele- rity with which they can be now performed. The first individual in whom the subclavian artery was tied, must have been on the table some hours, and so difficult and even hopeless did the attempts appear to place the ligature round the vessel, “ that some of the assistants became so strongly impressed with the idea of the patient’s danger, that they quitted the room, lest he should die before their