594 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the canals observed by Sir E. Home in a clot of blood, marking out tlie course of the vessels about to be developed within it. The substance of the membrane becomes thickened along the course of these canals, and forms the first rudiment of their walls ; and then the process of development goes on progressively, though slowly. When the omphalo-mesenteric vein is thus formed, it turns from below upwards, situated anteriorly with regard to the body of the embryo, and terminates in a vein which ascends perpendi- cularly, and presents a dilatation at the point where the heart is ultimately produced. From this the aorta issues, and distributes branches to the different organs of the body, the accompanying veins being formed nearly at the same time, and also the omphalo- mesenteric artery. It is more than probable that the umbilical vein and artery are developed in the same order as the omphalo- mesenteric vessels, viz. the vein first, the artery afterwards ; for they in a manner supplant them. Though arguments founded on analogy so often lead to error that it is hazardous to employ them in researches of this sort, we yet may use them for the illus- tration of our views, if not for their confirmation. During the germination of seeds the new plant, in the first instance, is ob- served to derive its support from the farina of the seed, and from the leafets developed within the cotyledons. When the radicula has shot down, and begins to derive nutriment from the soil, these leafets perish, and the plant is supplied by its own roots. So the vesicula and its vessels support the embryo until the um- bilical veins are formed, after which it withers, and finally disap- pears, when the latter have established their connexion with the uterus through the medium of the placenta. The vein (omphalo-mesenUric) derived from the vesicula, opens into the mesenteric vein of the foetus, which is a primary branch of the vena portae, so that the latter may be regarded as derived from the omphalo-mesenteric vein. The vena portae, at this stage of foetal existence, forms the principal trunk of the venous system, and ascends towards the point afterwards occupied by the heart, where it presents a slight ampulla, corresponding with the auricle. The heart appears at first in the form of a slight annulus, the left ventricle being the part earliest recognized, immediately above which the aorta is produced, in the form of a small dilatation.