ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 652 686. 1. The portio mollis, (nervus auditorius,) is very soft in its consistence, but not so much so as the olfactory nerve: it arises from a series of white strife, observable on the surface of the calamus scriptorius, and soon comes into contact with the portio dura, which lies posterior to it. Both nerves proceed outwards and forwards, and enter the meatus auditorius interims, where they separate, to pro- ceed to their respective destinations. At the bottom of the meatus auditorius the auditory nerve divides into a great number of minute filaments, which separately pierce the cribriform lamella of the bone, and arrange themselves into two fasciculi, of which one (anterior) enters the cochlea, the other (posterior) passes to the vestibule and semicircu- lar canals. These shall be particularly described with the organ of hearing. 687. 2. The portio dura, (nervus facialis; sympathe- ticus minor,) arises from the sulcus between the corpora restiformia and olivaria, close by the lower margin of the pons Varolii, and forms the first of the class of respiratory nerves. It passes forwards and outwards, closely applied to the portio mollis, which is slightly hollowed, to receive it. Having reached the fundus of the meatus auditorius, the portio dura enters an osseous tube (aqueduct of Fallo- pius), through which it is conducted, in a curved direction, outwards and backwards, to the stylo-mastoid foramen. After having passed about two lines into the canal, a small nerve ( Vidian) becomes applied to its inferior surface, and accompanies it nearly to the point of its exit from the fora- men above-mentioned. The Vidian nerve there leaves it, and passes obliquely across the cavity of the tympanum, where it assumes the name of Chorda tympani: its course and destination shall be particularly considered when treat- ing of the gangliac system of nerves. The portio dura gives two small filaments, which enter the cavity of the tympanum, and are distributed to the stapedius and tensor tympani muscles. After having issued from the stylo-