272 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. posterior part of the hip joint. The circumflex arteries (internal and external) turn round the shaft of the femur, one from within, the other from without; the gluteal and sciatic arteries run from above downwards, and the superior perforating branches from below upwards, towards the same point. So that if the supply from one quarter be diminished, or cut off, the loss is speedily made up from some other, the vessels taking on an increase of size and action proportioned to the increased demand upon them. This may be termed the ileo-femoral anastomosis. Towards the superior part of the limb, a similar mode of connexion occurs, but by no means so extensive, between the ileo-lumbar artery, and the circumflexa ilei, and again between the latter and the exter- nal circumflex on the one hand, and the epigastric on the other. Round the knee joint a very free communication exists between the four articular arteries, (converging to its fore part) and the re- current tibial from below, and the descending branches of the exter- nal circumflex, from the opposite direction. This may be named the femoro-tibial anastomosis, and if we examine the condition of the vessels, in a well-injected limb, we shall find it connected vrith the ileo-femoral anastomosis, by the descending branches of the exter- nal circumflex artery in front, and by the series of perforating branches behind. The ankle joint is surrounded by a corresponding distribution of vessels. The posterior tibial artery, and the peroneal, commu- nicate before they proceed to their final destination. In front of the joint, the anterior peroneal branch anastomoses with the tarsal and external malleolar arteries ; the latter communicating again with the posterior fibular, whilst the internal malleolar maintains a similar relation with the posterior tibial, or its branches. This freedom of anastomosis between the capillary terminations of dif- ferent vessels, may be considered as a provision against the con- sequences that must otherwise follow the obliteration of any of the main vessels of a limb, by an injury, or by operation. If the external iliac artery is tied for an aneurism high up in the femo- ral, an increased quantity of blood is at once thrown on the inter- nal iliac artery and its branches, which thus become distended and enlarged. Whilst this is taking place, the femoral artery and its branches empty themselves of their blood, forcing it on into the veins, by their contractile power, now that they receive none in