ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 444 The Pharynx. 471. The pharynx is a musculo-membranous tube, ex- tended from the centre of the base of the skull, to the oesophagus, with which it is continuous. It lies behind the nasal fossae, the soft palate, the isthmus of the fauces, and the larynx, which open into it,—before the vertebral column, and between the great vessels of the neck. The posterior and lateral parts of the pharynx are loosely con- nected to the adjacent structures by cellular tissue, but anteriorly it presents the several apertures that lead into the nose, mouth, and larynx, and is therefore, as it were, deficient in this situation. Its structure is made up, exter- nally, of muscular fibres, disposed in a very peculiar way, being formed into three lamellas on each side, partially overlapping one another, and, internally, of mucous mem- brane, prolonged from the mouth and nares. These layers of muscle are called the constrictors of the pharynx. 472. The inferior constrictor arises from the external , surface of the cricoid cartilage, and from the oblique ridge on the side of the great ala of the thyroid. From these attach- ments the fibres curve backwards and inwards, converging to those of the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, with' which they unite along the middle line. The direction of the inferior fibres is horizontal, concealing and overlapping the commencement of the oesophagus; the rest ascend with increasing degrees of obliquity, and overlap the lower part of the middle constrictor. 2. The middle constrictor is smaller than the preceding; it arises from the side of the great cornu of the os hyoides, also from its lesser cornu, and the stylo-hyoid ligament. From these points of attachment, the fibres proceed backwards, diverging from one another, and are blended with those of the correspond- ing muscle along the middle line. The lower fibres incline downwards, being concealed by the inferior muscle, the mid- dle run transversely, the rest ascend, overlap the superior