THE ARTICULATIONS. 147 carpal joint of the thumb, all which joints admit of a cir- cumduction in the part, to which they belong. 2nd. The motion of circumduction is performed when the shaft of a bone is made to describe a cone, its summit corresponding with the superior articulation, the base being at the inferior extremity of the bone. While this motion is being executed, the limb passes successively through the states of elevation, abduction, depression, adduction, and of course through all the intermediate points; and, if a pencil be held between the fingers, and its point applied to any plane surface, such as a wall, it will trace a circle cor- responding with the base of a cone, whose summit is at the shoulder joint, whilst its side coincides with the line de- scribed by the outstretched limb, as it traverses the diffe- rent points just enumerated. 3rd. Rotation differs altogether from circumduction. In the latter, the bone suffers a change of place, as it moves from one point to another; in the former, it merely turns on its own axis, and therefore retains the same relative situa- tion with respect to the adjacent parts. This movement, however, admits of two varieties ; in one, it is performed on a pivot, as in the motion of the axis on the dentata verte- bra ; in the other there is a sort of compound motion, for instance, where the radius rolls on its own axis at one end, whilst at the other it moves upon the extremity of the ulna, by which its lower part describes a segment of a circle, and therefore changes place to a certain extent. The femur and humerus also admit of a rotatory motion; in the latter, as the head is closely applied upon the shaft, the axis of motion nearly coincides with that of the bone ; but in the former, in consequence of the length of the neck, and of the angle which it forms with the bone, the rotation is performed round an imaginary axis, which may be conceived to pass from the globular head to the con- dyles. 4. Besides these more obvious movements, the contigu- l 2