FEMORAL ARTERY—OPERATIONS. 253 the thigh. When the flaps of integument are reflected, and the fascia examined, the latter may be divided to the same extent, which will expose the flexor muscles. These may be merely divided and drawn aside, after which the distribution of the per- forating branches can be readily examined, as they lie on the ad- ductor magnus, before their final termination. The anastomosis of the circumflex arteries shall be considered after we have described the gluteal and sciatic arteries. As the incision through the integu- ment here indicated corresponds with the course of the great sciatic nerve, it may be well to observe its relation and connexions whilst prosecuting the dissection of the arteries. The femoral artery may be tied on the superior or middle third of the thigh ; the former situation is now universally preferred, because the operation in the latter is considerably more difficult of execution, without securing any equivalent advantage. The limb being placed in the position pointed out at the commence- ment of these remarks, an incision is made through the integu- ments, beginning two inches below the middle point of Poupart’s ligament, and carried perpendicularly downwards for three inches, or a little more, in a muscular fat subject. Previously to com- mencing this incision, it may not be amiss to place a scalpel, or a probe, along Poupart’s ligament, and mark upon it the middle point; if the external end of the instrument be depressed, so that it should lie horizontally across the thigh, the incision through the integument should be made so as to form with the instrument, so placed, a right angle. This suggestion is intended only for those who are about to perform the operation on the dead subject, or who may be planning the execution of it. The fascia lata being exposed, a small part of it should be pinched up with the forceps, and cut across, so as to form a small opening, into which a direc- tor is to be passed, in order that the fascia may be safely divided upon it. The sheath of the vessels is thus brought into view ; a small part of which should be raised by the forceps and divided, the knife being held in the horizontal position. The vein in this situation will be found behind, and a little to the inner side of the artery ; on which account, in carrying the needle round the latter, its point is to be directed from within outwards, and cau- tiously insinuated between them, its surface being held close to the artery. Some difficulty is generally experienced in effecting