CALCANEO-CUBOID ARTICULATION. 187 behind forwards between the contiguous extremities of the bones. 190. The articulation of the astragalus with the scaphoid bone. The astragalus forms with the scaphoid bone a ball and socket joint. The anterior articulating surface of the calcaneum and the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament also may be said to enter into this articulation, as all the parts here mentioned are lined by a common synovial membrane. On the dorsum of the foot the astragalus is retained in its situation by the ligamentum astragalo-scaphoideum, a broad hand of fibres extending obliquely forwards from the anterior extremity of the astragalus to the superior surface of the scaphoid bone; it is covered by the extensor ten- dons. The necessity for an inferior ligament between these bones is removed by the existence of the calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. The synovial membrane lines the con- cave surface of the scaphoid bone, the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, and the elongated articulating surface of the calcaneum; from these it is reflected to the under surface of the astragalus and its scaphoid ligament, and so to the bone of that name from which we began to trace it. 191. The articulation of the calcaneum with the cuboid bone. The connexion between these bones is maintained by three ligaments and a synovial membrane. The supe- rior calcaneo-cuboid ligament is a broad, flat band of fibres, which connects the anterior and superior surface of the calcaneum with the adjacent part of the cuboid bone. The inferior ligament consists of two distinct fasciculi of fibres differing in form and attachments, of which one is super- ficial, the other deep-seated. The superficial one, called also ligamentum longum plantce, is the longest of the tarsal ligaments. Its fibres attached posteriorly to the inferior surface of the calcaneum pass horizontally forwards, and become intimately connected with the rough tuberosity on the under surface of the cuboid bone ; the greater number of them are continued forwards, and terminate at the base