496 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. lingual, and facial branches of that side, at once receive blood from the corresponding vessels of the opposite, by means of their anastomoses along the middle line, and circulate blood freely, but in a direction the reverse of that in which it had previously flowed in them. The internal carotid and vertebral arteries are supplied from the great arterial circle at the base of the brain, part of which they form. If the subclavian be tied externally to the scalenus, all its branches are left open to receive the increased current which is thrown upon them, and are enabled by gradual dilatation, to supply the place of the obliterated trunk. Its sca- pular arteries convey blood into the subscapular branch of the axillary, so does the mammary into the thoracics of the latter, and the brachial and lower part of the axillary artery are filled in a very short time. But when the subclavian is tied before its branches are given off, the route of the new circulation is much more circuitous. The carotid then becomes the medium of sup- ply. Its thyroid branch conveys blood into that of the subcla- vian ; the occipital artery, by means of its descending branch, imparts its surplus to the profunda cervicis, whilst the vertebral is abundantly supplied from the arterial circle in the brain, tbe new current in it flowing from above downwrards. This inver- sion of the current in vessels, under certain circumstances, de- serves attention. Suppose the carotid to be tied, the part of the artery above the ligature soon fills with blood, which flows in it from above downwards, being derived from its superior anasto- moses with the vessel of the opposite side. Were secondary haemorrhage to occur, so as to require the application of a new ligature, the direction from which the blood is coming should be ascertained, if possible, before the attempt is made. For here is a case in which it may be necessary to apply the ligature beyond the original one, or two may be required, one at each side of it. Little has been here said concerning the dissection of the mus- cles, because little or nothing need be added to what has been already stated in their description. They will be found, grouped into sets, according to their anatomical relations; and the first line of the description indicates their position, whilst the rest contains all that relates to their attachments, with occasional notice of their form and structure. When the anterior and lateral parts have been examined suffi-