ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 650 of them are distributed; some, however, pierce its fibres and fascia, and becoming superficial, anastomose with the superficial temporal branches of the facial nerve. The buccal branch is longer than any of the others; it inclines downwards and forwards between the pterygoid muscles, and reaches the surface of the buc- cinator muscle, on which it spreads out into four or five filaments, which communicate with branches of the facial nerve, supplying the muscles of the cheek and lips. The pterygoid nerves consist of three or four branches, which are distributed to the pterygoid muscles. The masseteric branch passes outwards through the sigmoid notch in the lower maxillary bone, and supplies the mus- cle from which its name is derived. The remaining division of the inferior maxillary nerve subdi- vides into three branches, viz. the lingual, inferior dental, and auricular. The lingual descends between the pterygoid muscles for some way, where it is joined at an angle by the chorda tym- pani nerve, which accompanies it whilst descending inside the ramus of the lower maxillary bone, but soon parts from it, to be distributed to the submaxillary gland. The lingual nerve con- tinues its course forwards, to reach the side of the tongue, lying between the mucus membrane and the mylo-hyoideus muscle. As it ascends by the side of the tongue, it gets above the sub-lingual gland, and divides into several minute filaments, which may be traced beneath the mucous membrane, gradually becoming soft and waving, until they reach the papillae, where they terminate. The nerve, during its course, gives one or two filaments to the internal pterygoid muscle, also some which communicate with the hypoglossal nerve, and others to the sublingual gland. The auricular branch inclines outwards, to gain the interval between the condyle of the lower jaw and the meatus auditorius externus, where it divides into several branches, whilst lying deeply in the substance of the parotid gland. Some of these communicate with the facial nerve, others extend to the super- ficial parts of the ear, whilst a third set ascend and become subcu- taneous, their ultimate filaments maintaining communications with some of the temporal branches of the facial nerve. The inferior dental nerve descends between the internal ptery- goid muscle and the ramus of the inferior maxilla, protected from