229 MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. the pulley-like surface on which they slide, as they pass from the leg into the sole of the foot. By this provision the flexor muscles conspire with the soleus and gemellus in extending the foot on the leg, and thus making the body to rest on the toes. The direct agent in extending the foot upon the leg is the tibialis posticus ; but from its position it is also enabled to turn the foot inwards, thus antagonizing the peroneus tertius which tends to turn it outwards. It may also, by elevating the inner border of the foot, turn the sole inwards; which action is directly opposed to that of the pe- roneus longus, which tends to incline it outwards. When these muscles take their fixed point of attachment below, they exert a considerable degree of power in keeping the bones of the leg per- pendicularly on the foot, and so assist in maintaining the erect po- sition of the body. It may be observed that the toes w'ould, in all cases, be drawn inwards whilst they are being flexed by the flexor communis, in consequence of the oblique direction of its tendon, but for the influence exerted upon it by the accessory muscle, which is connected with it in the sole of the foot. The direction of the latter being from behind forwards, it is well fitted by its contraction to modify the action of the long flexor on the toes, and to draw them towards the heel, where its fixed point of at- tachment is situated. Muscles of the Foot. 252. The only muscle on the dorsum of the foot is the extensor brevis digitorum, which has been already de- scribed, together with the extensor longus, as they conspire in their actions ; the present section therefore includes only the muscles in the sole of the foot. These may be consi- dered as divisible into three regions, corresponding with the two borders and the intermediate space; the internal set, consisting of the muscles of the great toe, the external, those of the little toe, those in the middle being common to all. But in order to facilitate the examination of the parts contained in the sole of the foot, it is found far more conve- nient to divide them into layers, lying one beneath the other, more particularly, as like the muscles on the back