654 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. second set consists of branches which pass transversely upon the cheek and side of the face, ramifying upon the lower eye-lid, the side of the nose and the lips, where their filaments interlace with those of the second and third divisions of the fifth nerve : one of these usually runs between the parotid duct and the transversalis faciei artery. The third or descending branches run obliquely over the masseter muscle, inclining towards the base of the jaw- bone, beneath which some of them communicate with the branches of the ascending cervical nerves; but others higher up maintain a similar connexion with the third division of the fifth nerve, where it ramifies on the chin. Having stated the general plan, according to which the distribution of the facial nerve takes place, it may be observed that its filaments enter the substance of the muscles of the temple and eye-lids, those of the cheeks, lips, and nose. Now it will be recollected that these are all supplied with branches from the different divisions of the fifth nerve also, which suggests the question—Do these parts receive merely an addi- tional quantity of the same influence by their double supply of nerves, or do they derive from these sources an influence differing not in degree, but in kind* ? The question has been decided by direct experiment. If the seventh nerve be divided, the muscles it supplied lose the power of motion, but retain their sensibility; but if the fifth nerve be cut across, motion is retained, but sensibility is lost. 688. The eighth pair of nerves consists of three nerves, which differ in their origin, course, and distribution, and are named glosso-pharyngeal, nervus vagus, and spinal ac- cessory. The two first arise by filaments attached in a continued series to the medullary tractus, placed between the corpus olivare and restiforme, along the side of the medulla oblongata ; the third commences opposite the third or fourth cervical vertebra, and thence ascends to join the others. 689. 1. The glosso-pharyngeal arises by three or four filaments, which are placed immediately beneath the portio * Exposition of the Nervous System, by C. Bell.