ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 238 Both these vessels are covered by the peritonaeum, and crossed by the ureters just at their point of division; the right being also crossed by the ileum, where it is about to pass into the large intestine; whilst the left lies behind the sigmoid flexure of the colon. To the inner side of the left iliac artery, and supported on the lumbar vertebra, lies its accompanying vein; on the right side the vein lies nearly behind the artery. No branch that has received a name or deserves notice, is given oft' by the common iliac arteries; but on reaching the sacro-iliac symphysis, as has been observed, each divides into the internal and external iliac arteries. The latter we shall describe first, as in the adult subject it approaches more nearly both in size and direction the vessel from which it arises. It may be here observed, that the vessel whose branches supply the lower extremity continues an undivided trunk fx*om the point al- ready indicated (sacro-iliac symphysis) as far as the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries; but though it conti- nues thus undivided, different parts of it have received dif- ferent names, taken from the anatomical regions through which it passes. Whilst within the pelvis, and running along the iliac region, it is named iliac ; in the upper two- thirds of the thigh, femoral; from thence, to the lower boundary of the ham, 'popliteal. Each of these divisions, (which are really artificial, being intended merely to facili- tate description) is marked by some change in direction, in relation to contiguous parts, and also by a diminution in size, proportioned to the decrease in the quantity of con- tained fluid consequent on the giving of branches of supply at different intervals. 266. The external iliac artery, (iliaca externa, Murray; arteria cruralis in pelvi, Soemm.) extends from the sacro- iliac symphysis to Poupart’s ligament, its direction being obliquely downwards and outwards, so as to reach the mid- dle point between the anterior superior spinous process of