ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 636 venous system. What is the propelling power of the blood in these veins? Muscular action can have no influence; and if it depended on the “ vis a tergo” solely, congestion and extravasa- tion would be not unlikely to occur frequently, in consequence of the many sources of retardation observable in the whole series. M. Breschet* conceives, that the circulation in the great rachidian veins presents several points of similitude with that in some of the animals that occupy the lower grades in the scale of being, and that it is performed with a degree of slowness proportioned to the impediments to its course. It may not be amiss to subjoin M. Breschet’s method of injecting and preparing these veins. In the first place it is necessary to select an old subject, as the ve- nous system is always more developed in old age ; and the thinner the body is, the better. It should be heated thoroughly by being steeped in water. Injecting pipes should be inserted into the superior vena cava and vena azygos, also into the inferior cava ; one may also be passed into the gluteal vein, and another into the superior longitudinal sinus. A size injection, coloured blue, or one of isinglass, should be forced, as nearly as possible, simul- taneously through these different tubes. If the injection succeeds, a vertical section of the head and spine will be necessary, in order to expose the great spinal veins. 674. The pia mater, in its anatomical characters, differs considerably from the other membranes. It is made up of a thin lamella of cellular tissue, permeated by a multitude of minute capillary arteries, which ramify in it previously to their entrance into the cerebral substance. It invests the medulla spinalis, as well as the brain, and dips into the sulci between the convolutions of the latter: we also find it prolonged into the anterior of the ventricles, assuming the name of plexus choroides. Its inner surface is in close contact with the cerebral substance; the external is in ap- position with the arachnoid membrane on the surface of the convolutions, but loses all connexion with it after pass- ing into the sulci. In the fissure observable on the base * Essai rnr les veinei du racliis.