ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY ITS DISSECTION. 265 change in the line of the first incision is obviously suggested by these facts; and we believe that M. Lisfranc makes his incision rather obliquely, its direction being from above downwards and backwards, so that when the muscles are retracted, their border may coincide with that of the skin. The dissection of the plantar arteries includes that of the sole of the foot. When the thick skin and cellular texture are removed, and the plantar fascia fully exposed, the external plantar artery may be readily exposed by cutting through a few fibres of the fascia, along the depression which separates the middle from the external portion of it; for when it has got on a line with the head of the fifth metatarsal bone, the vessel is almost superficial, though in the rest of its extent it is covered deeply by the muscles. The internal plantar artery can be laid bare merely by dividing the thin membrane which covers the abductor pollicis, and, turning aside the external border of that muscle. When the plantar fascia and flexor brevis are detached and reflected from the calcaneum, the vessels can be easily traced in the rest of their extent. It has been observed that the course of the anterior tibial artery, and that of its continuation, the dorsalis pedis, may be marked out by a line drawn from the inner border of the head of the fibula, to the middle of the bend of the ankle, and thence continued onwards to the first metatarsal space. To expose the vessels, an incision should be made through the skin, corresponding with this line. Its commencement may in the next place be crossed by another, extending from the head of the fibula to the inner tuberosity of the tibia; a similar transverse incision is to be made at the ankle, and to evert the skin conveniently, a third will be found necessary about midway. The flaps of integument being everted, the one inwards on the tibia, the other outwards over the fibula, and the fascia exposed, the intervals between the muscles at once become apparent, where their tendons shine through the fascia. This membrane should now be divided in the same extent and direction as the skin, and the artery will be brought into view by separating the muscles, which can be done without the least difficulty by proceeding from below upwards. The dorsal artery, being placed between the tendons of the ex- tensor proprius pollicis and extensor communis, and uncovered by any structure, except the skin and fascia, may be laid bare by