371 SERRATUS MAGNUS. tenor surface is covered by the pectoralis major, the poste- rior crosses the axillary vessels and nerves. 373. The subclavius (costo-claviculaire) is placed along the interval between the clavicle and first rib. It arises by a small short tendon from the cartilage of the first rib, close to the rhomboid ligament, from which it is directed out- wards beneath the clavicle, forming a rounded fleshy fasci- culus, which is inserted into the grooved and rough surface, along the costal aspect of the clavicle, for nearly half its length. Relations—its upper surface is covered by the clavicle, a small part beneath it being overlapped by the pectoralis major, but which is at first not perceptible, until a dense fascia that covers it is dissected off; the costal sur- face lies in front of the subclavian vessels as they pass down from the neck. 374. The serratus magnus (costo-basi-scapulaire) is placed upon the upper and lateral parts of the thorax, be- tween the ribs and scapula, being deeply seated in far the greater part of its extent. Its anterior border presents eight or nine fleshy points or digitations, giving it a serrated appearance, whence its name is taken. By these, as its points of attachment, it arises from the surface of the eight superior ribs; for it is generally found, that two of the processes come from the second rib, or, at all events, the one arising from it is larger than any of the others, and not unfrequently of a deeper colour. From this extensive origin, the fibres of the muscle, forming a flat, thin plane, converge as they proceed backwards, and are inserted into the base of the scapula, being interposed between the sub- scapularis on the one side, and the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapulae on the other. Structure—fleshy in its en- tire extent. If the muscle be put on the stretch by draw- ing the scapula backwards, its fibres will be observed to be arranged in flat fasciculi, traceable from its serrated border, and distinguished from one another by deep linear impres- sions : relations—one surface rests on the superior ribs, the 2 b 2