PERITONEUM. 541 muscles, and reflect it downwards. Commencing over the spine, where it is continuous with the part marked A, we trace it over the promontory of the sacrum, and in front of the rectum, from whose sides it is reflected back to the sacrum, forming a fold, (meso-rectum,) which lodges the haemorrhoidal vessels. The mem- brane will be found to rest on the rectum until it arrives opposite the base of the bladder, where it turns forwards, guided by the ureters, on which it is folded into duplicatures, plicce semi-lunares, or posterior false ligaments of the bladder, and limited on the sides by the vasa deferentia. It thus invests the posterior surface of the bladder as far as the points at which the urachus and um- bilical cords are reflected away from it to the abdominal parietes ; guided by these, and at the same time thrown into three falciform folds, the membrane passes upwards behind the recti muscles to the umbilicus, where it is again continuous with the part A, or at least was continuous before we had severed their continuity by an incision. The lateral or iliac division of the membrane is continu- ous with the umbilical portion, and extends thence downwards over the front and sides of the coecum, and its appendix, investing the latter all round, and forming a falciform process along its border. Having lined the iliac fossa, it is reflected from its lower margin upwards, behind the abdominal muscles, where it again passes into the part A. In the space between the margin of the pelvis and the side of the bladder a duplicature will be ob- served, (lateral false ligament,) which is owing to the fact, that the membrane is attached on the sides to two prominent points, and must necessarily be thrown into a transverse fold extend- ed across the interval. It is scarcely necessary to add, that a similar distribution takes place at the opposite side. In the female, the arrangement of this part of the peritonaeum differs from that in the male in some particulars. After having invested the front and sides of the rectum, it is reflected on the posterior surface of the neck of the uterus, and somewhat also on the va- gina ; it covers also the fundus and anterior surface of that organ, from which it passes to the base of the bladder. Now, by being extended from the sides of the uterus to those of the pelvis, it forms, on the principle above indicated, two folds, (ligamenta lata uteri, vel alee vespertilionum). These, it will be observed, together with the body of the uterus, form a transverse septum, dividing