536 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. attachments of the Fallopian tubes surmounting the body; it presents a convex border, and is covered by peritonaeum in its entire extent. The body tapers gradually as it ex- tends from the fundus to the neck, its two sides being straight, its surfaces however are both convex. At the union of the sides, with the base, are two angles, into which the Fallopian tubes are inserted, the round liga- ments being a little before, and the ligaments of the ovaria behind them. The neck is continuous with the body, narrowing gradually to its extremity, where it presents a transverse orifice, (os uteri, vel tincce), bounded by two labia, which are distinguished by their situation into ante- rior and posterior, the latter being thinner. The cervix is from six to eight lines long, and projects into the cavity of the vagina, which is attached around, at its line of union, with the body of the organ. The cavity of the uterus is triangular, and marked into two symmetrical halves by two slightly raised lines, which run along its anterior and poste- rior walls. At its angles will be observed two minute fora- mina, which lead into the Fallopian tubes, the lining mem- branes of which are evidently prolongations of the mucous lining of the uterus. The proper structure of the organ is now almost universally admitted to consist of muscular fibres, disposed, some in the longitudinal, and others in the transverse direction. 598. The ovaria are two compressed and irregularly oval bodies, somewhat granulated on the surface, and en- closed between the folds of the broad ligaments. From the lower border of each descends a thin fibrous cord, which attaches it to the angle of the uterus, close behind the insertion of the Fallopian tube. The ovarium is en- closed in a proper capsule, which is a thin cellulo-fibrous membrane; its proper structure presents, when divided, the appearance of a firm, yet vascular mass, giving lodge- ment to some small vesicles, (ovula Graajiana.) 599. The Fallopian tubes may be considered as the ex-