335 HERNIA—CRURAL OR FEMORAL. through which a portion of intestine can be protruded. Such an accident cannot happen immediately in front of the vessels, for we find interposed between them, and connect- ing the anterior to the posterior sides of the tube, a firm process of membrane preventing their separation. More- over, the sub-serous, cellular tissue, which lies upon the iliac vessels in their entire course, becomes dense and firm near their exit, as it is being reflected from them to the an- terior wall of the abdomen. 341. It may here be observed that the term crural arch, is applied to the whole space between the anterior superioi spine of the ileum and the pubis, its boundaries being the irregularly curved border of the os innominatum, and Pou- part’s ligament, which stretches across it. Through this space pass the psoas and iliacus muscles, the crural nerve, and femoral vessels, which, with the peculiar arrangement of the membranes above described, effectually prevent the protrusion of a hernia between the spine of the ileum and the femoral vein. But such an occurrence may happen to the inside of that vessel, the intestine passing into the cru- ral ring, whose boundaries (bearing in mind that it is lined by the membranous tube above described) may be thus enumerated: anteriorly it is bounded by Poupart’s liga- ment, posteriorly by the os pubis, internally by the base of Gimbernat’s ligament, and externally by the femoral vein. This ring forms the inlet to a canal whose outlet is the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, and through which the intestine descends, behind Poupart’s ligament, into the upper part of the thigh, constituting crural ox femoral her- nia.. The ring does not at first distinctly appear, even after the removal of the peritonaeum, as its margin is still ob- scured by a layer of the sub-serous, cellular tissue, which in this situation, is rather thick and dense ; this, however, can be readily removed. The relation of the vessels to the ring, requires to be attentively considered. The exter- nal iliac vein and artery lie to the outside of the ring, and