m ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the sartorius, to which it gives some filaments. Opposite the inner condyle, the saphenous nerve may be found be- tween the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis muscles. In this situation the nerve becomes sub-cutaneous, and applies itself to the saphena vein, which it accompanies along the anterior and inner side of the leg, distributing filaments to the integuments, as it descends. It passes with the vein in front of the inner ankle, and ramifies by several minute filaments as far as the dorsum of the great toe. The rest of the deep-seated branches are distributed exclusively to the muscles of the thigh, and may, as we have said, be divided (from a consideration of their direc- tion,) into an external and an internal set. The external branches incline outwards in front of the iliacus and psoas muscles, gradually diverging as they proceed. They get under cover of the sartorius, and give off three or four fila- ments for its supply, some of which pierce the fibres of the muscle, and ramify on its anterior surface. Other branches, still very numerous, pass beneath the rectus and tensor vaginae femoris, supplying both, the remainder being distri- buted to the psoas and iliacus muscles after their junction, and finally to the two vasti and the crureus. The internal set of branches, not so large or so numerous, incline in- wards beneath the femoral vessels, and supply the pecti- neus and adductor longus. 306. 5. The obturator nerve (nervus obturatorius, So- emm.; nerf sous-pubio-femoral, Chauss.) arises from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, and is smaller than the crural nerve, from which it is separated by the breadth of the psoas muscle, one running along its external border in the iliac fossa, the other placed beneath its inner margin, along the brim of the pelvis. In this course the nerve lies between the peritonaeum and the pelvic fascia, being situ- ated about half an inch above the corresponding artery, (when it arises from the internal iliac,) but gradually de-