ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY-. 386 rests on the ulna, interosseous ligament, and pronator qua- dratus; the anterior is covered by the ulnar artery and nerve, the median nerve, and the other flexor muscles. The ex- ternal border is parallel with the flexor pollicis longus, from which it is separated by the anterior interosseous artery. 392. The flexor pollicis longus lies on the same plane as the flexor profundus, resting on the radius. It arises from the grooved surface on the fore part of the radius, com- mencing just below the oblique line, extending from its tu- bercle to the insertion of the pronator teres, and reaching nearly to the edge of the pronator quadratus, also from the adjacent part of the interosseous ligament. The fleshy fibres come forwards to a tendon, which, after passing be- neath the annular ligament of the wrist, turns outwards, lying between the two heads of the flexor brevis and the sesamoid bones ; then enters a fibrous sheath similar to those for the other flexor tendons, and finally becomes in- serted into the base of the second phalanx of the thumb. Relations—its anterior surface is covered by the flexor carpi radialis, flexor sublimis, and somewhat by the prona- tor teres, also by the radial vessels. Towards the lower part of the arm, its fibres can be readily perceived between the tendon of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. 393. The pronator quadratus is extended across the ra- dius and ulna, immediately above their carpal extremity; it is flat and thin, being about two inches in breadth. Its origin, or fixed attachment, is from the inner border of the ulna, in the situation and extent just mentioned. The fibres pass directly across to be inserted into the fore part, and anterior surface of the radius. Its structure is fleshy; one surface rests on the bones and interosseous ligament, the other is covered by the muscles and vessels that pass into the palm of the hand. Combined Actions.—These muscles act on the fore-arm, the hand, and the digital phalanges. The radius is made to turn on the ulna, and the hand thereby pronated by the pronator teres and