245 FEMORAL ARTERY. 270. The direction of the vessel may then be said to be downwards along the anterior and inner side of the thigh, becoming gradually deeper as it descends, and in its course it lies first on the psoas muscle, (supported on its inner border), which separates it successively from the os pubis, the brim of the acetabulum, and the hip joint. Below this, the vessel rests on some branches of the profunda artery and vein, embedded in cellular tissue ; these separate it from the pectineus and adductor brevis ; it then passes over the ad- ductor longus, and finally over the conjoined tendons of the latter and adductor magnus. Internally, it is in contact with the femoral vein, both vessels lying on the same plane in the first instance, where they are supported by the pubis; but when the vein sinks behind the artery, the latter comes into contact with the adductor longus and sartorius mus- cles. Externally it rests against the psoas muscle, which separates it from the crural nerve; but after that muscle has sunk backwards to its insertion, three or four branches of the nerve come into contact with the sheath of the ves- sels. 271. The anterior surface of the artery in the superior third of the thigh, is covered only by the common integu- ment, the superficial fascia, the inguinal glands, and the fascia lata, so that it is comparatively superficial, and may be easily compressed against the acetabulum and head of the femur. In the middle third of the limb, the vessel is more deeply seated, as in addition to the parts already mentioned, it is covered by the sartorius muscle, beneath which may be observed a fascia, composed of oblique fibres passing from the adductor muscles to the vastus internus. This is thin superiorly, beginning where the sartorius over- laps the vessels, but gradually becomes dense and firm, as it approaches the point at which the vessel passes through the opening in the adductor magnus, (sect. 220). Though at Poupart’s ligament, the femoral vein lies close at the inner side of the artery, and on the same plane with it; it