ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 580 and uniting at an angle near the apex. When the flap thus formed is drawn upwards, the great thickness of the walls of the cavity, as compared with those of the right ventricle, is rendered manifest. The columnae carneae resemble those of the right side, but are thicker, and directed, for the most part, from the base to the apex of the heart. Two fleshy fasciculi, of considerable size, pass towards the apices of the mitral valve, to which they are connected by chordae tendineae, similar to those in the right ventricle. The auriculo-ventricular opening is guarded by a valve, similar in structure to that of the right side, but differing from it in presenting but two pointed processes ; hence it has been termed the mitral valve (valvula mitralis). The larger division of it looks towards’the aortic opening. To the right side of, and be- fore the large opening just noticed, is situated a smaller one, which communicates with the aorta, and is guarded by three valvular folds of the lining membrane, similar in structure and form to those of the pulmonary artery, and also called sigmoid, or semi-lunar valves. From the right ventricle arises the pulmonary artery, from the left the aorta. The mode of connexion of these vessels to the heart deserves to be particularly noted. The middle coat of the arteries is not a prolongation of, nor is it continuous with, the sub- stance of the ventricles. It presents, in each case, a festooned border, marked with three points, separated by three arched in- tervals. The points are applied to the margin of the ventricle, and connected to a thin ligamentous ring, which surrounds it, by means of some fibrous tissue, the intermediate spaces being also filled up by a similar structure. The internal coat of each artery is continuous with that which lines the corresponding ventricle, and the seious layer of the pericardium, by being reflected from the artery to the heart, strengthens the connexion between them. At the origin of each vessel, the lining membrane is doubled into three semi-lunar folds (valvulce semi-lunares). The convex bor- der of these is attached to the line of union of the artery with the