128 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. Lave not received particular names ; but those observable between the horizontal lamellae of the latter, and those of the palate bones, may be termed tbe palato-maxillary sutures. After having described, in detail, the separate bones of the head and face, it becomes necessary to review them collectively. The description of these bones forms the most difficult part of human, as well as of comparative osteology, as they are the most complex in the whole skeleton; but a correct knowledge of them is indis- pensable, in consequence of the many important parts which they serve to sustain and inclose; viz. the cerebral mass, with its nerves and vessels ; the organs of sight, hearing, smell, and taste; part of those of mastication and deglutition, as well as of voice. To facilitate the description of the numerous eminences, depressions, cavities, and foramina of the skull, anatomists examine, suc- cessively, its external and internal surface; the former may be considered as divisible into five regions, three being somewhat of an oval figure, and situated, one superiorly, another at the base, the third in front, including the face; the others comprise the late- ral parts, and are somewhat flat and triangular. The superior region extends from the frontal eminences to the occipital protube- rance, and, transversely, from one temporal ridge to the other ; it thus includes the upper third of the frontal, almost all the pa- rietal, and the superior third of the occipital bone, which together form the vaulted arch of the skull. It is divided into two sym- metrical parts, by the sagittal suture; it presents no aperture or other inequality deserving of notice, is covered by the common in- tegument and occipito-frontalis muscle, on which ramify branches of the temporal, occipital, and auricular arteries, as well as fila- ments of nerves from the frontal branches of the fifth and portio dura, and also from the occipital nerve. The inferior region, also oval in its outline, is the most complex of all, as it includes the entire base of the skull, extending from the symphysis of the chin to the occipital protuberance ; and transversely, from the mas- toid process and base of the lower jaw at one side, to the corres- ponding points on the other. It may be considered as divisible into three parts. Of these one corresponds with the extent of the arch of the palate ; is divided into two parts, by a line extending from before backwards, and marking the junction of the palate processes of the maxillary and palate bones; this is intersected by