VASCULAR SYSTEM—ITS DEVELOPMENT. 595 These vesicular dilatations are for a while separated by narrow in- terstices, but they gradually approach and become united. At first we find but two small cavities, representing an auricle and a ven- tricle, which are ultimately divided each into two chambers, by the development of a transverse septum. Whilst these changes are going on, progress is at the same time being made in the de- velopment of other parts of the vascular system. The vena portae, which originally lies behind the liver, and unconnected with it, becomes connected with the umbilical vein, and conjointly with it ramifies in that organ, which then encloses the vein, and for the first time becomes a sort of diverticulum, in which the blood cir- culates before it passes to the heart. Cases have occasionally oc- curred in which the liver and vena portae continued to retain the relative position above indicated ; that is to say, the vein passed behind the liver without possessing any connexion with it, and opened directly into the vena cava. In these instances a fluid, resembling bile, was found in the gall-bladder, and the inference was at once deduced that the bile is in all cases secreted from the blood of the hepatic artery, and not from that in the vena portae. From what has been just stated, these are merely cases of deranged or imperfect development, and cannot as such fur- nish legitimate data from which any inference can be drawn. But even were it otherwise, the conclusion would be invalid, on the obvious principle, “ haud valet argumentum a particulari ad uni- versalem.” As the development of the heart proceeds, the auricle becomes divided into two cavities (but incompletely), by a septum, which projects inwards from its circumference. The division of the ven- tricles takes place more slowly, and in a different manner. The right ventricle at first appears like a small tubercle, extending downwards gradually towards the apex of the heart, but still re- tains a free communication with the left, particularly towards the superior part or base, on which account the aorta is, in the first instance, connected with both ventricles. The pulmonary artery is the last of these central parts which presents the form of a distinct trunk ; its course in the first instance is, as it were, slightly sketched out along the aorta, with which it communicates directly by means of the ductus arteriosus, sending, however, a diverging 2 Q 2