363 DORSAL MUSCLES—THEIR ACTION. capacity. And it must be obvious, from the intimate union that subsists between the ribs and the vertebrae, that any decided alte- ration in the one must materially influence the other. In his arti- cles “ sur le retrecissement de la poitrine k la suite des certaines pleuresies,” Laennec has, with his usual precision, traced out the series of changes that lead to this result. In the first place, when the pleura has become inflamed, an effusion is poured out upon its surface, which separates into two parts, similar in many particulars to those into which the blood is resolved on cooling. The one concretes into a lamella, investing, to a greater or less extent, the exterior of the lung, and also lining the inner surface of the tho- rax ; the other is a serous fluid, effused into the cavity of the pleura, compressing the lung in a degree proportioned to its quan- tity, and thereby removing it from the ribs. In the ordinary run of cases, on the subsidence of the inflammation, the fluid is absorbed, the fibrinous lamella is converted into thin bands of adhesion, and the lung, unaltered in its texture, freely admits the air into its cells, and, by becoming distended as usual, is applied to the inner surface of the thorax, and supports it, all the parts resuming their natural position and relations. But if the inflammation had ex- tended to the lung itself, so that its texture had become altered, and its cells obliterated, then, whilst the serous fluid is being ab- sorbed, the air cannot enter into the lung so as to distend its cells, and so bring it into contact with the ribs. The natural consequence of such a state of things must be, that the ribs, when left without support from within, will be forced inwards by the pressure of the atmosphere, and the intercostal spaces proportionally narrowed, and the side compressed. Lastly, the vertebrae will be drawn down, by means of their connexion with the ribs, so that a perma- nent lateral curvature of the spine is established. In the next elass of cases, the bodies of the vertebrae, having become attacked with caries, the column gradually bends forwards, and gibbosity is produced. But there are other instances, in which a softened con- dition of the bodies of the vertebrae occurs, with a corresponding alteration in the fibro-cartilages and ligaments. The column, no longer able to support the super-incumbent weight, inclines to one side, the bodies of the bones, as well as the inter-vertebral cartilages, are compressed along the corresponding lateral half, and their perpendicular depth diminished, by which means a cur-