152 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. by means of the supra-spinous and inter-spinous ligaments. 1. The supra-spinous ligament consists of small, compressed bundles of longitudinal fibres, which connect the summits of the spinous processes, and form a continuous chain from the seventh cervical vertebra to the spine of the sacrum. The posterior fibres pass down from a given vertebra to the third or fourth below it, those more deeply seated, reach only from one to the next, or the second beneath it. 2. The inter-spinous ligaments, thin and rather membra- nous, extend from the root to near the summit of each spi- nous process, connecting the inferior border of one with the superior border of that next below it. They exist in the dorsal and lumbar regions only, and are intimately con- nected with the extensor muscles of the spine. The inter- transverse ligaments are found only between the transverse processes of the inferior dorsal vertebrae, and can be de- monstrated more clearly anteriorly, for they are united so intimately with the sacro-lumbalis, that their fibres are quite indistinct posteriorly. 102. The arches, or plates of the vertebrae are connected by the ligamenta subflava, (ligamenta vertebrarum sub- flava, Weit.) as their bodies are by the inter-vertebral carti- lages. These consist of yellow elastic fibres, almost per- pendicular in their direction, as they pass from the inferior border of one arch to the adjacent border of that imme- diately below it. They extend from the root of the trans- verse processes at each side backwards to the point where the two arches converge at the origin of the spinous pro- cesses, where the margins of each lateral half of the liga- ment may be observed to be merely in contact. The su- perior border of the ligament is attached, not to the margin only of the arch, but also for some way on its anterior sur- face ; whilst the inferior border is prolonged a little on the posterior surface as well as the margin of its corresponding arch. They do not exist in the first inter-vertebral space, or between the occiput and atlas. 103. The articulating processes are connected by irre-