ORGANIZED BODIES THEIR GROWTH. 23 with regard to one another, but that, as the process of nu- trition goes on, they gradually approach and unite, so as to form organs usually termed single, from the circumstance of their having been examined only after their growth has been completed. The process of ossification for instance, proceeds from the circumference towards the centre. Thus the lateral parts of the cranial bones are formed first. The alas of the sphenoid are formed before its body; so are the lateral masses of the ethmoid, whilst the central part remains imperfect, until the deposition of ossific mat- ter extends inwards to the middle line. Each vertebra of the spinal column, and therefore the whole pillar itself, even including the sacrum, is composed of two parts, which finally become soldered together at the part deno- minated the body. This principle obtains in all cases, even where the structure consists of a simple tube. The course of the intestinal canal is at first marked out by two flat bands running along its entire length; these unite in front, so as to form a groove, the margins of which finally arch in and complete the tube. In this way the aorta, trachea, larynx, and oesophagus, are formed. This prin- ciple of eccentric development obtains in the muscular system also, the lateral parts being produced before those at the middle line. On the head the temporal, masseter, and pterygoid muscles, are the first that can be recognized; the zigomatici, the buccinator, and orbiculares, come next in order; and lastly, those of the nose. On the thorax, the intercostals precede the muscles situated in the costo- spinal fossae, as well as those attached to the sternum; and in the abdominal region, the obliqui are formed in the first instance, the recti and pyramidales, situated along the mid- dle line, subsequently. The abdomen in fact, in the early periods of foetal life, presents an open cavity, the viscera being quite uncovered, but in proportion as the muscles extend inwards from the circumference to the centre, the opening becomes gradually diminished, and the organs en-