ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 402 bicipital groove. There it divides into two branches, or in some cases, into two sets of branches; of these one ascends by the long head of the biceps through the groove in which it runs, and is distributed to the head of the bone and the capsule of the joint; the other continues outwards, in the original direction of the ves- sel, and after anastomosing with the posterior scapular branch is lost in the deltoid. 420. The brachial artery (arteria brachialis vel hume- raria) is placed along the internal and anterior aspect of the arm, extending from the lower border of the axilla, to about a finger’s breadth below the bend of the elbow. Its direction is downwards, outwards, and forwards, and may be marked out by a line drawn from midway between the borders of the axilla to the middle point between the con- dyles of the humerus. If the arm be allowed to hang freely by the side, the course of the vessel is indicated by the seam in the coat sleeve. The artery is accompanied by the median nerve, the basilic vein, and venae comites. In the upper part of its course, it rests on the triceps mus- cle, the spiral nerve, however, and the profunda artery intervening; in the middle of the arm, it crosses over the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and lies from thence to its termination on the brachialis anticus. The artery may be said to be superficial in its whole course, inasmuch as it can be exposed without dividing any muscular fibres, being covered merely by the skin and fascia. Its external side is in apposition, in the upper half of the arm, with the coraco-brachialis, in the lower with the biceps, the border of which muscles somewhat overlap it. The median nerve, though its two roots embrace the axillary artery, lies at first to the acromial side of the brachial; as it descends, it inclines in front of the vessel, crossing it about the middle of the arm, so that at the elbow it lies to the inner side of the artery, and on the same plane, both being supported by the brachialis anticus. The nerve usually crosses in