ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 446 be performed, and at the same time dilated in opposite directions. It is widened from side to side by the stylo-pharyngei, which are farther removed from one another at their origin than at their insertion, and can thereby draw outwards the sides of the cavity; and as the os hyoides and larynx are carried forwards in their ascent, the breadth of the pharynx from before backwards is also increased, inasmuch as its fore part is drawn in the same direction, by reason of its connexion with the larynx. When the morsel of food is propelled into the pharynx, the elevator muscles relax, the bag descends, and then the fibres of its own muscular wall begin to contract, and force the mass down into the oesophagus. When we contrast the structure of the pharynx with that of the oeso- phagus, comparing the complex arrangement observable in the one, with the simplicity of the other, we see abundant evidence of its being intended for something more than a mere recipient and pro- pellent of such matters as are to be conveyed to the stomach. It exerts an important influence in the modulation of the voice, being brought into action in the production of its higher tones. The description of the muscular structure of the pharynx may be given briefly as follows : it may be considered as a single muscle, con- sisting of two symmetrical halves, united by a raphe posteriorly along the middle line, the union extending from the basilar pro- cess to the oesophagus. The superior fibres curve downwards and outwards, to be fixed to the lower third of the internal pterygoid plate, to the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and to the mylo-hyoid ridge and side of the tongue; the middle set of fibres, broad, and expanded posteriorly at the line of junction, converge as they proceed forwards, to be attached to the cornu of the os hyoides and the stylo-hyoid ligament, and are so disposed that part is concealed by the succeeding set, whilst others overlap the preceding muscle. The lower fibres proceed forwards in the same way, to be attached to the side of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. The tube is thus shewn to be complete posteriorly and at the sides, being open in front, where it communicates with the nose, mouth, and larynx. When the pharynx is slit open, we expose the cavi- ties just mentioned, and the apertures which lead into them, as well as the orifices of the Eustachian tubes.