298 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 318. The branches of this nerve, taken in their order from above downwards, are as follows, a. A considerable branch is given off in the popliteal space, which descends between the external head of the gastrocnemius and the fascia, sending at intervals some branches which pierce the latter to supply the integuments. It finally divides into two or three branches, some of which ramify on the exter- nal side of the leg, whilst one joins with the superficial branch of the posterior tibial nerve, to form with it the communication alluded to in the description of the latter; b, the anterior tibial, or interosseous nerve, immediately after its origin below the head of the fibula, turns forwards and inwards between the surface of that bone and the pe- roneus longus and extensor communis, giving branches to both. On reaching the interosseous ligament, it lies to the external side of the anterior tibial artery, but as it descends it inclines somewhat in front of that vessel, and so passes beneath the annular ligament of the ankle joint to gain the dorsum of the foot. In this course the nerve gives off fila- ments to the muscles between which it lies, viz., the exten- sor proprius pollicis, and tibialis anticus, and finally termi- nates in the situation just referred to by dividing into two ramusculi, of which one passes forwards and supplies the extensor digitorum brevis, and some of the interossei, some of its filaments uniting with the terminal branches of the peroneal nerve. The other division proceeds inwards over the first metatarsal bone, and ramifies on the first and se- cond toes. c. Several muscular branches are given by the peroneal nerve in the upper part of the leg, to the peronei and extensor muscles ; and, finally, d, some small cutaneous branches which pass down towards the external ankle. Dissection of the Nerves.—When commencing the dissection of the nerves of the lower extremity, it should be recollected that they consist of two sets, one lying between the skin and fascia, and distributed altogether to the integuments, the other more deeply seated, being covered by the fascia, and intended to supply