122 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. observed an oblique and prominent line (the mylodiyoidean ridge) leading upwards and outwards to the ramus; above the line is a smooth depression for the sublingual gland, and beneath it, but situated more externally, is another for the submaxillary gland. The superior border is horizontal, and marked by notches, corresponding with the alveoli, or sockets of the teeth. The inferior border, thicker at its an- terior than at its posterior part, is slightly everted, so as to project somewhat forwards. The external surface of each ramus is flat, and marked by slight inequalities; the inter- nal surface presents at its middle a foramen (the inferior dental) leading into a canal contained within the bone, and lodging the dental nerve and vessels. Beneath the foramen a slight groove marks the passage of some vessels and a nerve, the rest of the surface being rough, for the insertion of the pterygoideus internus. The anterior border is nearly vertical in its direction, and terminates in a pointed extre- mity, named the coronoid process; it is grooved at its commencement, for the attachment of the buccinator mus- cle. The posterior border is also almost vertical in adults, but in children and edentulous subjects it departs consider- ably from this direction, and approaches that of the base of the bone. This border is surmounted by the articular head of the bone (the condyle), which is convex and oblong, its greatest diameter being from without inwards; the direc- tion of its axis is oblique, so that if prolonged, it would meet that of its fellow of the opposite side at the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. The interval between the condyle and coronoid process deeply excavated, is called the sigmoid notch, and if viewed when the bones are in situ, it will be found to form a complete circle with the arch of the zigoma. Attachments of Muscles. To the incisor fossa, the levator mend; to the external oblique line, the depressor labii inferioris, de- pressor anguli oris, and a small part of the platisma myoides. To the upper tubercles on the inner surface of the symphy-