334 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the crista ilei. But the fascia does not cease at this point, it extends upwards on the muscle, being prolonged, from its surface, inwards upon the lumbar vertebrae, whilst, along its external border, it is united with the fascia lumborum, and terminates superiorly, by being inserted into the ligamentum arcuatum. Thus we find that the numerous interstices, apertures, and foramina, which occur in this extensive re- gion, are covered over by this membrane. We now pro- ceed to examine that part of it which is more immediately connected with the anatomy of hernia. 340. When traced to the lower margin of the abdomen, the fascia iliaca is found to turn forwards a little, and to be- come blended with the fascia transversalis in all that part of its extent which intervenes between the anterior spine of the ileum and the exit of the femoral vessels. But in the interval, between that point and the base of Gimbernat’s ligament, the fascia cannot comp forwards so as to form a junction with the fascia transversalis, in consequence of the interposition of the vessels, on which account it passes down behind them, forming the -posterior part of their fun- nel-shaped investment. Having thus derived the part of this membranous tube that lies before the vessels, from the fascia transversalis, and that which is behind them from the fascia iliaca, it remains only to add, that its lateral borders are formed by the junction of these membranes along the ex- ternal side of the artery, and at the base of Gimbernat’s ligament, by which means the tube is completed. The tube is wide above, but gradually narrows as it descends. The external border runs straight downwards along the artery, to which it is closely applied; the internal one in- clines obliquely downwards and outwards, from the base of Gimbernat’s ligament, so as to reach the vessels. The ex- ternal part of it only is thus found occupied by the vessels, the remainder is unoccupied (except by a lymphatic gland) and presents an oval opening called the crural ring, which is the only outlet that exists beneath Poupart’s ligament,