LEVATOR ANGULI SCAPULAS. 353 muscular in the greater part of its extent, tendinous at its orgin: relations—it is covered by the trapezius in the greater part of its extent, and towards the lower part by the latissimus dorsi; but when the arm is drawn away from the side, a small portion is left uncovered by these muscles, where they diverge at the base of the scapula. 351. The levator anguli scapulae (trachelo-anguli-scapu- laire) is placed along the side and posterior part of the neck, forming a long and rather thick fasciculus of fleshy fibres. It arises from the posterior tubercles of the three or four superior cervical vertebrae, by so many tendinous points. From these the fleshy fibres proceed, being at first slightly separated, but soon united to form a flat muscle, which is inserted into that part of the base of the scapula, included between its spine and superior angle. Direction—down- wards and a little backwards : structure—fleshy in the greater part of its extent, tendinous at its origin : relations —it is covered by the sterno-mastoid muscle above, and by the trapezius below; it rests on the splenius colli, transversus cervicis, and serratus posticus superior. 352. The serratus posticus superior (cervici-costo-dorsal) is placed under cover of the rhomboideus; it is flat, and exceedingly thin. It arises from the spinous process of the last cervical, and from those of two or three upper dorsal vertebras, by a thin aponeurosis, which inclines down- wards and outwards, soon becoming muscular, and is in- serted by four fleshy digitations into the bodies of the second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs, a little beyond their angles. Its direction is obliquely downwards and outwards, resting on the deep muscles and angles of the ribs. 353. The serratus posticus inferior (dorsi-lumbo-costal) is broader than the preceding muscle, from which it is sepa- rated by a considerable interval, the one corresponding with the upper, the other with the lower ribs. It arises from the spinous processes and inter-spinous ligaments of the two last dorsal, and two or three first lumbar vertebrae, by 2 A