THE FASCIA LATA. 307 is reflected on itself, and in the greater part of its extent passes outwards on the sheath of the vessels with which it is identified ; but towards its superior termination it turns under the border of Poupart’s ligament, and adheres to that of Gimbernat, with which it is inserted into the pectineal line. The pubic, or inner portion of the fascia (so called from its situation) lies on the pectineus muscle, and there- fore is on a plane posterior to the femoral vessels. Supe- riorly, it terminates at the pectineal line, to which it is guided as it were by the muscle of that name ; externally it passes behind the vessels and their sheath, and on reaching the border of the psoas muscle and its tendon, divides into two lamellae. Of these, one rather dense and firm, passes deeply behind the tendon, and becomes attached to the fibrous capsule of the hip joint; the other, lying more su- perficial, unites along the border of the common tendon, with a membrane covering the muscles. This cannot be the fascia iliaca, as is usually stated. That membrane ex- tends no farther than Poupart’s ligament, in all that part between the spine of the ileum and the femoral vessels. In the rest of its extent, it forms part of the sheath of these vessels, behind which the pubic part of the fascia lata lies. The membranous structure then, with which this part of the fascia becomes blended at the border of the tendon, is a deep-seated layer of the fascia lata, prolonged upwards upon the iliacus and psoas muscles, and which finally unites with the under surface of the fascia iliaca, where the latter turns forwards to be connected with Poupart’s ligament. The iliac and pubic parts of the fascia lata are continuous, and united at the lower border of the opening which their junction serves to form, and over which slides the saphena vein. Though the fascia, in the situation here referred to, appears to present a defined, concave border (the concavity looking upwards), it still will be found not to cease abruptly, on the contrary, it is folded on itself like the external margin of the opening, and reflected down on the sheath of the vessels, on which x 2