ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. G58 they communicate by oblique and transverse branches. This in- terlacement is usually called the cesophagean plexus. f. The terminal branches of the vagus nerves ramify on the stomach. The left, on reaching the cardia, spreads out into branches on the anterior surface of the viscus ; some of these run along the lesser curvature, where they communicate with those of the right vagus nerve, and finally several filaments are prolonged within the folds of the lesser omentum, to join with the hepatic plexus. The nerve of the right side, after forming a plexus round the cardia, distributes branches to the posterior surface of the stomach as far as the pylorus, where it communicates with the preceding nerve, and with the coronary plexus formed by the splanchnic nerve, and finally one or two branches pass backwards, leaving the stomach altogether, and join the solar plexus. 692. The spinal accessory nerve arises by several fila- ments from the side of the medulla spinalis, commencing opposite the fourth cervical vertebra. From this point the nerve ascends by the foramen magnum, lying between the ligamentum dentatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and having mounted into the cranium, it comes into contact with the vagus nerve, close by which it passes through the foramen lacerum, but in a separate sheath of the dura mater. At the base of the skull this nerve is connected by filaments with the two preceding nerves, as well as with the lingual and sympathetic, after which it inclines outwards and downwards behind the internal jugular vein, and through the substance of the sterno-mas- toid muscle, giving off at the same time several branches for its supply. Having emerged from the muscle at its posterior border, the nerve communicates with those which form the cervical plexus, and then continues its course ob- liquely downwards and outwards across the neck, until it gets under cover of the trapezius muscle, to which it is finally distributed. 693. The phrenic nerve (which has been already alluded to (sect. 552) when treating of the cervical nerves) arises