ULNAR ARTERY ITS BRANCHES. 407 wards. This curved part of the artery is called the super- ficial palmar arch, to distinguish it from the deep-seated one, formed by the radial artery. It rests on the annular ligament at its commencement, and afterwards on the ten- dons of the flexor sublimis; and is covered, for a short way, by the palmaris brevis, and afterwards by the palmar fascia and integument. The vessel, in the palm, is usually some- what tortuous ; and presents some varieties in its course and mode of termination; which are, however, of little im- portance in a practical point of view. The branches of the ulnar artery are as follows : a. The anterior recurrent branch arches inwards from the ulnar artery about an inch below its origin, running on the brachialis anticus, and covered by the pronator teres, to both of which it sends ramusculi. On reaching the inner condyle, it anastomoses with the ramus anastomoticus and inferior profunda, from the brachial artery. b. The posterior recurrent branch not unfrequently arises by a small trunk common to it and the preceding. It runs backwards somewhat, and ascends upon the posterior aspect of the inner condyle, and in the interval between that process and the olecranon, anastomoses with the inferior profunda, some of its branches ex- tending outwards, so as to communicate with those of the supe- rior profunda, and interosseous recurrent. c. The interosseous artery is of considerable size, and is some- times called the common ’’nterosseous artery, from the circum- stance of its dividing into two vessels bearing that name, which lie on the opposite surfaces of the interosseous ligament or mem- brane. This vessel inclines somewhat backwards after its origin, to reach the upper border of the interosseous ligament, where its division takes place. The anterior interosseous branch proceeds downwards, lying on the anterior surface of the membrane of the same name, and is accompanied by the interosseous branch from the median nerve, and overlapped by the contiguous borders of the flexor profundus, and flexor longus pollicis. Thus placed, it reaches the upper border of the pronator quadratus muscle, where it passes from before backwards, through an opening in the inter-