507 COLON AND RECTUM. wards the time of parturition, this part of the canal becomes constricted for about two-thirds of its length, the rest retaining its natural size; and so that peculiar conformation is established which we find in after life, at least in man, and one of the higher species of the quadrumana, in whom it may be regarded as a rudiment of the tabular diverti- culum which is found in the rest of the mammiferae. 565. 2. The colon, by reason of the curve it describe^, presents three parts: of these one passes up (ascending) from the right iliac fossa, where it is continuous with the ccecum, as far as the inferior surface of the liver, supported on the quadratus muscle and right kidney, its external border being in contact with the wall of the abdomen, the internal with the convolutions of the small intestines. Ano- ther part (transverse) passes across from right to left, beneath the liver and stomach, concealed by the great omentum, and supported by the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. And the third portion (<descending) extends from the spleen to the left iliac fossa, where it makes a double curve, so as to resemble the letter S, placed horizontally. Hence it is termed the Sigmoid flexure of the colon. From the point just indicated, the intestine inclines inwards, passing over the border of the pelvis, and assumes the name of rectum. 566. 3. The rectum, or terminal part of the great intes- tine, extends from the left sacro-iliac symphysis to the anus, its direction being at first obliquely from left to right, as it descends to gain the median line of the sacrum. When deep in the pelvis it changes its direction, in order to pass forwards in front of the lower part of the sacrum and the coccyx, and behind the bladder, prostate gland, and ve- siculae seminales in the male, and the uterus and vagina in the female. When opposite the prostate, it makes its final turn, inclining downwards somewhat, so as to leave an angular interval between its upper surface, and the neck of the bladder. These curves may be said to indicate a di-