ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 250 maximus, communicating with the sciatic and internal circumflex arteries. The second, considerably larger than the first, always passes through the adductor brevis and magnus, after which it di- vides into an ascending and descending branch ; the former, pass- ing up on the adductor, supplies the posterior muscles, and anas- tomoses towards the great trochanter, with the circumflex and sciatic arteries ; the latter descends, and is distributed to the flexor muscles, where it communicates with the terminal branches of the profunda. A branch of this vessel usually enters the medullary foramen of the femur. The third perforating artery passes back from the profunda, when it has got under cover of the adductor longus, pierces the adductor magnus, and like the others is distri- buted to the flexor muscles. 274. The profunda, after having given off these different vessels, becomes considerably diminished in size, and passes backwards close to the linea aspera, where it divides into branches, some of which are distributed to the short head of the biceps, the rest to the other flexor muscles. These terminal branches do not pass to their destination ex- actly in the same way as the perforating set do ; the latter pierce through the fibres of the adductors, about an inch, or a little less, from their insertion, the former pass close to the linea aspera, between it and some tendinous fibres which arch over the vessels, and protect them from compression by the muscle. At these points the muscle is attached, not to the bone, but to the tendinous fibres just referred to. A similar provision will be found in several other parts of the body, for instance, where the profunda humeri passes be- neath the triceps, &c. It may be observed, that considerable variety obtains in the mode of origin of the branches of arteries here describ- ed. As Meckel justly observes, the varieties in the arterial system are not less numerous than those of the venous, which is not generally supposed to be the case. But as these branches are intended to carry on the collateral cir- culation, after the main vessel has been obliterated, their