ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 164 no’id process, and to the annular ligament of the radius. Some of its fibres are directed obliquely downwards and outwards, others are vertical. The posterior ligament, loose and weak, consists of fibres proceeding in opposite directions; those of the posterior layer pass transversely between the adjacent margins of the fossa, which receives the head of the olecranon; the other set subjacent to these, but not very well marked, pass ver- tically from the superior concave margin of that fossa, to the extremity of the olecranon. 130. Though these structures are described and named as separate ligaments, it will be found on examination, that they form a continuous membrane placed round the joint, as fibrous capsules usually are, except only that the irregula- rity of the surfaces to which they are attached, prevents their continuity from being readily perceived, and gives them the appearance of distinct ligamentous connexions, passing from one point of bone to another. 131. The head of the radius articulates with the sigmo 'd cavity of the ulna, on which it rolls when it is made to turn on its axis. These surfaces are covered with cartilage, and invested by the synovial membrane of the elbow joint. The radius is connected to the ulna by an annular ligament. 132. The annular or orbicular ligament, is a strong band of circular fibres, which, by being attached to the borders of the lesser sigmoid cavity, forms a ring, encircling the head of the radius, and binding it firmly in its situation. Its external surface is in apposition with the external lateral ligament of the elbow, whose fibres are identified with it; the inter- nal is smooth and lined by the synovial membrane. 133. The synovial membrane, after having lined the arti- cular extremity of the humerus, is prolonged a little on the anterior surface of that bone, as far as the attachment of the fibrous capsule, where it is reflected, and applied to its in- ternal surface, lining it as far as its radio-cubital inser- tion ; at that point the synovial membrane leaves the fibrous