THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 43 with the great medullary canal, and externally with the ves- sels on the surface of the bone. The spongy, or cellular part presents a multitude of spaces of various forms and size, all of which communicate with one another, as may be proved by the following expe- riment : if the end of a long bone, or the surface of a flat one, be perforated, and some mercury poured in, it will be found not only to descend through the cells, but also to flow out through the vascular foramina on the surface. The in- terior of flat and short bones then, does not differ so de- cidedly from that of cylindrical ones, as would at first sight appear. Each presents a cavity, which in the one at least towards its centre, is a hollow tube, but in the other is divided, by a number of intersecting laminae, into minute spaces communicating freely with one another. Some peculiarities are observable in the arrangement of the compact and cellular structure in the different classes of bones. The body of long bones consists chiefly of the compact substance, but the inner side of the tube is ren- dered rough by projecting filaments and lamellae; towards their extremities the compact substance is gradually re- duced to a thin lamella, or layer, encasing the bone, the interior of which consists altogether of the cells communi- cating freely with the large central cavity. The two surfaces of the broad and flat bones are com- pact in their texture, the interval between them being made up of spongy substance. This is usually called diploe. The internal table of the cranial bones is more dense than the external, and from being also more thin and brittle, it is called vitreous. The short bones are made up for the most part of spongy substance, encased by a thin lamella of compact tissue. These differences arise altogether from the mode of aggregation and arrangement of the osseous parti- cles, for on examination the composition of both is found to be the same, being made up of the same elements, viz. a