645 CEREBRAL NERVES—EOURTH PAIR. descends so as to become inferior to the other nerves, and divides into two branches, which separately pierce the dura mater, and enter the orbit by passing between the heads of the external recius muscle. The superior or smaller branch ascends so $ts to get above the optic nerve, and gives one or two ramusculi to the superior rectus muscle, the other being prolonged to the levator palpebrae : the inferior or larger branch lies beneath, and to the out- side, of the optic nerve, where it divides into three branches, one of which passes obliquely inwards to the rectus in- ternus muscle; another descends and is distributed to the rectus inferior, whilst the third, longer than either, passes forwards between the inferior and external recti muscles, and terminates in the obliquus inferior. This last branch is usually said to give off a filament, which enters the in- ferior and posterior angle of the lenticular ganglion. Pro- bably it would be more correct to say, that the branch was derived from the ganglion. 680. The fourth nerve (nervus patheticus; trochlearis; pat' quartum) is the smallest of the cerebral nerves : it arises by two, and sometimes by three filaments, from the valve of Vieussens, immediately beneath the tubercula quadrigemina. Each nerve passes forwards on the side of the cerebral protuberance, on a level with the margin of the tentorium cerebelli, and enters an aperture in the dura mater, a little inferior and external to that of the third pair: by this it is conducted into the cavernous sinus, along whose external wall it runs towards the sphenoidal fissure, through which it enters the orbit, at the same time passing above the third nerve. The nerve finally inclines up- wards and inwards, mounting over the superior rectus and levator palpebrae, and divides into two or three filaments, which enter the superior oblique muscle, at its orbital surface. 681. The Jifth pair of nerves (nervus trigeminus ; par quintum) has been demonstrated by Mr. Bell to be in