ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 140 different objects which it is intended to seize. The tarsal bones are large, firm, and strong ; those of the metatarsus are also thick and large, and placed all in a line. That which supports the great toe being the stoutest of all, and almost immoveable, ranges with the others. But the metacarpal bones are quite differently dis- posed ; that which supports the thumb admits of considerable motion in every direction, so as to perform a complete circumduc- tion, and is placed so much out of line with the others, that it can be opposed to them, as in grasping different objects. The hand and foot may be considered as divisible, each into two parts, dif- fering in their degrees of mobility, viz. the digital phalanges, and the row of bones which sustains them. The moveable phalanges of the hand are as long as the carpal and metacarpal bones taken together, but in the foot they are not a third of the length of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. No part of the osseous system of man affords more striking evidence of his adaptation for the erect posture, than the cranium. Resting on the summit of the vertebral column, the line of its base forms a right angle with that of the column itself, which thus af- fords it a firm support. The condyles, or points of articulation, are situated very near the centre of its base, being however a little nearer to the occipital protuberance than to the anterior surface of the jaws ; by this arrangement very little active power is required to maintain it in equilibria.* In other animals the condyles are placed much further back, so that instead of resting on the co- lumn, the skull is, as it were, appended to its extremity, and is sustained by an elastic substance, the ligamentum nucha*, which is attached by one extremity to the spinous processes of the verte- brae, and by the other to the occipital protuberance. The head, as has been already observed, is composed of two parts, the cra- nium and face; the one being intended to contain the brain, or the material instrument of the mind, the other to enclose the or- gans of sight, smell, and taste. The more the organs of smell and taste are developed, the greater is the size of the face, and the greater its relative proportion to the cranium. On the contrary, the larger the brain, the greater must be the capacity of the skull, and the greater its proportion to the face. On this principle a Lawrence on the Characters of the Human Head, passim.