THE PERONEAL NERVE. 297 in the interval between the external head of the gastroc- nemius and the biceps, and reaches the posterior surface of the head of the fibula, where it may with propriety be named, jibular or peroneal. The nerve continues to de- scend for a short way, between the external surface of the bone and the peroneus longus muscle, where it is usually said to divide into two branches, one being named anterior tibia], the other the musculo-cutaneous. But as the latter, in size and direction, represents the continuation of the nerve, we shall so consider it, and treat the former as a branch, more especially as from its relations and course it is analogous to the interosseous branch in the fore-arm. As it passes downwards, the peroneal nerve lies between the peroneus longus and the extensor communis, and after- wards between the latter muscle and the peroneus brevis, giving branches to each. Towards the middle of the leg, it escapes from under cover of the muscles, much diminished in size, descends for some way beneath the fascia, and divides into two branches, one being a little external to the other. The external branch, lying between the fascia, covering the extensor tendons, and the skin, passes over the bend of the ankle and dorsum of the foot, and divides into three ramusculi on reaching the latter situation. One of these is directed forwards, corresponding with the fourth metatarsal space, and ramifies in filaments on the dorsum of the little toe, and outer border of the foot. In the latter situation its place is not unfrequently supplied by the external saphenous nerve. The next ramusculus passes along the interval between the fourth and third toes, supplying both ; whilst the third, or most internal of them, is similarly dis- posed of on the phalanges of the third and second toes. The internal branch is directed towards the base of the first metatarsal bone, on which, after having given some filaments to supply the inner border of the foot, it divides into two ramusculi, which ramify on the upper surface of the first and second toes.