ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 220 surface of the calcaneum, and from the ligament connecting that bone with the astragalus, and terminates in four ten- dons, the first, or most internal of which, is inserted into the tarsal end of the first phalanx of the great toe, the other three become severally united to the outer border of the extensor tendons, proceeding to the three next toes : struc- ture—fleshy and tendinous : relations—it is covered by the tendons of the long extensor and peroneus tertius, and rests on the tarsus, metatarsus, and the dorsal interosseous muscles. Combined Actions.—A very slight effort of the extensor com- munis and proprius pollicis, extends the digital phalanges, and if their action be continued, they will be made to bend the foot upon the leg. TJiis they are enabled to do by the manner in which their line of direction is altered by the annular ligament of the ankle joint, as it gives them all the mechanical advantage of a pulley. The tibialis anticus, and the peroneus tertius, are the di- rect flexors of the foot on the leg, and if either acts separately, it will give it a slight inclination towards the corresponding side. In the erect position these muscles take their fixed point below, and by drawing on the bones of the leg, keep them perpendicular on the foot. The extensor brevis is obviously but an accessory to the long extensor; but from the obliquity of its direction, it is fitted not only to extend the toes, but also to draw them some- what outwards. 242. The ‘peroneus longus (peroneo-sous-tarsien, Chauss.) is situated at the outer side of the leg, and under the foot. Form—very long and narrow, reflected on itself inferiorly. It arises from the upper third of the anterior surface of the fibula, and forms a small part of the external tuberosity of the tibia, from aponeuroses separating it on the inner side from the extensor digitorum communis, on the outer side from the soleus and flexor longus pollicis muscles, and from the fascia of the leg. Proceeding from these attachments it descends and becomes tendinous ; the tendon passes with that of the peroneus brevis, in a groove on the posterior