ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 248 Poupart’s ligament and the origin of the profunda, he names femoralis communis, the continuation of the vessel as it passes along the thigh, femoralis superfcialis, and its deep-seated branch, femoralis profunda. The profunda arises from the external and posterior surface of the femo- ral artery, usually from an inch and a half to two inches below Poupart’s ligament. It at first inclines outwards in front of the iliacus muscle, but soon changes its direction, running downward and backwards behind the femoral ar- tery. Opposite the junction of the upper with the middle third of the femur, the profunda passes beneath the adduc- tor longus muscle, and inclining outwards to the linea as- pera of the femur, soon divides into its terminal branches, which pass between that ridge of bone and the adductor magnus, to reach the posterior part of the thigh, where they are distributed to the flexor muscles. The trunk of the profunda in this course lies at first on the psoas and iliacus muscles, after their junction, then on the pectineus and adductor brevis, finally on the adductor magnus. In the first part of its course it is separated from the femoral artery by the profunda and femoral veins, and by a quantity of cellular tissue, in which all these vessels lie embedded; lower down the adductor longus is interposed between them. In addition to a number of nameless, and merely muscular branches, the profunda gives off the following, which de- serve particular notice. a. The external circumflex branch arises from the profunda, whilst it rests on the iliacus muscle, and after passing outwards for a short way beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles, and through the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, it gives off branches, which may be divided into three sets, from the directions which they take. The first continue transversely outwards in the course of the vessel, and after passing over the crureus, pierce the vastus externus, so as to get between it and the bone just below the tro- chanter major, and so reach the posterior side of the thigh, where they anastomose with the internal circumflex, the gluteal and