ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 568 tendinous lamella, which arches obliquely over the psoas muscle, being attached by one extremity to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra (where it is blended with the preceding), and by the other to the body of the second. This he terms “arcus interior:” it may be named, ligamentum arcuatum proprius, The fleshy fibres from these different points of attachment proceed to their destination in different directions; those in front pass backwards, those at the sides directly inwards, the inter- mediate ones being oblique; but the fibres from the exterior tendinous arch pass directly upwards, all becom- ing inserted into, or continuous with, the fibres of the central aponeurosis. 621. The central aponeurosis (centrum nerveum) is composed of tendinous fibres interwoven in every direction. Its narrow extremity or foot-stalk is turned towards ihe spine, the wider (which is divided into three processes) towards the margin of the thorax ; hence it was com- pared by Winslow to a trefoil leaf. The central leaflet is the largest, the left the smallest, the right being interme- diate in size between them. Between the right and middle divisions, a little anterior to the spine, is an open- ing (foramen quadratum venae cavce) for the vena cava; it is somewhat of a square shape, and resembles rather a canal than a foramen. 622. The lumbar portion of the muscle consists of two thick fleshy processes, crura or pillars, placed at each side of the middle line. The right crus, broader and longer than the left, is attached to the forepart of the bodies of the vertebrae, whilst the latter inclines rather to their sides. The right crus arises by fleshy fibres from the three upper lumbar vertebrae, and by a firm tendinous process from the intervertebral substance, between the third and fourth. The left does not extend so far down, by the breadth of half a vertebra. As they ascend they leave an interval between them which lodges the aorta, and opposite the