TEMPORAL ARTERY. 475 b. —A stylo-mastoid branch, which enters the foramen of that name, and, on reaching the tympanum, divides into delicate ra- musculi, which pass, some to the mastoid cells, others to the laby- rynth. One branch will constantly be found, in young subjects, to form, by uniting with a twig, that enters the fissura glasseri, a sort of coronary artery round the osseous ring of the meatus auditorius, from which delicate offsets pass inwards, upon the membrana tympani. c. —One or two branches ramify on the posterior surface of the concha. Opposite the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, the external carotid divides into two terminating branches, one being superficial, the other deeply seated. 527. 7. The temporal artery is, at first, embedded in the substance of the parotid gland, where it lies in the interval between the meatus externus, and the condyle of the lower jaw. It soon turns forwards to reach the cutaneous sur- face of the zigoma (its posterior root), on which it may be readily compressed, being merely covered by the integu- ment, and the prolonged part of the cervical fascia, and the thin tendon of the attrahens aurem muscle. Continuing to ascend, the artery lies beneath the skin, supported by the temporal muscle and its aponeurosis, and divides into two sets of arching branches, which ramify beneath the integu- ment. In its course it gives off: a. —Some small twigs to the parotid gland. b. —One or two to the masseter muscle (masseterici). c. —Arteria trmisiersalis faciei arises whilst the artery is deeply seated, and inclines upwards and forwards, through the substance of the gland, so as to get between its duct and the zigoma, resting on the masseter muscle, and accompanied by one or two trans- verse branches of the facial nerve. It sometimes gives off the masseteric branches, and divides into three or four ramusculi, which are distributed to the side of the face, anastomosing with the infra-orbitar and labial arteries. d. —Temporalis media vel profundior dips beneath the temporal