ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 408 osseous membrane; and, on reaching its dorsal surface, proceeds along the back of the carpus and hand, ramifying freely on both, and maintaining communications with the branches of the radial, and posterior interosseous arteries. The posterior interosseous branch passes backwards, through the interval left between the oblique ligament, and upper border of the interosseous mem- brane, (sect. 134). Continuing its course downwards, along the arm, under cover of the extensor muscles, it gives several branches to them, and reaches the carpus, considerably diminished in size, w’here its terminal branches anastomose with those of the anterior interosseous artery, and with the carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries. In addition to numerous muscular and com- municating branches, which require no special notice, this artery gives off the posterior interosseous recurrent branch, which is nearly as large as the continuation of the vessel. The recurrent branch passes directly upwards, covered by the supinator brevis and anconeus, in the interval between the olecranon and external condyle, where it divides into several ramusculi, that anastomose with the terminal branches of the profunda superior and inferior, as well as of the posterior ulnar recurrent. d. Several branches are distributed to the muscles in its course along the arm. e. Carpal branches (anterior and posterior) run upon the cor- responding surfaces of the carpus, and communicate with similar branches from the radial and interosseous arteries. f. A communicating branch passes backwards, between the flexor brevis and abductor of the little finger, and becomes conti- nuous with the termination of the deep palmar arch formed by the radial. g. Digital branches, four in number, proceed forwards from the convexity of the palmar arch, to supply the fingers. The first branch inclines inwards, to the ulnar border of the hand, and after giving ramusculi to the small muscles of the little finger, runs along the inner margin of its phalanges. The second runs along the fourth metacarpal space, and at the root of the fingers divides into two ramusculi, which proceed along the contiguous borders of the ring and little fingers. The third is similarly dis- posed of to the ring and middle fingers, and the fourth to the