THE EYE—CORNEA. G73 be inserted into it, somewhat like a watch-glass into its case. The sclerotica is a fibrous membrane, its fibres interlacing intimately, but not assuming any assignable direction. It is thicker poste- riorly than towards its anterior part; but in this latter situation it is strengthened by the tendinous expansions of the muscles, which some anatomists have considered as a distinct membrane, and de- nominated tunica albuginea. The aperture for the optic nerve is usually found to be divided by a number of septa, so as to constitute a cribriform plate, through which the pulp of the nerve may be made to ooze as if through minute pores. At its exit from the skull the nerve receives an investment from the dura mater, which accompanies it to' the point at which it pierces the sclerotica, where it separates from the nerve and becomes blended with the substance of the latter membrane. The cornea (cornea pellucida) occupies the anterior fifth of the globe of the eye, its transverse diameter being about seven lines, the vertical a little less. The anterior surface, which is convex and prominent, is in contact with the conjunctiva; the posterior is concave, and is lined by the membrane of the aqueous humour: its circumference, nearly circular in the human subject, is received within the anterior border of the sclerotica, with which it is so in- timately united as not to be separable from it without long-con- tinued maceration. Its degree of convexity varies in different in- dividuals, and at different periods of life. It is composed of five or six concentric lamellae, united by some connecting medium, pro- bably a fine cellular tissue, the interstices of which contain an aqueous or serous fluid. The lamellar structure of the cornea is beautifully adapted to the functions of the eye. Were it fibrous, like the sclerotica, even though at the same time translucent, it would cause a dispersion of the rays of light, and thereby resolve them into their primitive or prismatic rays, which would necessa- rily produce a coloured and confused image. The effect may be readily exemplified by looking at a lighted taper through a feather: the flame will instantly appear surrounded by a halo of coloured images; and were the cornea made up of fibres woven ever so finely, the effect would be similar. 711. The ciliary ligament (orbiculus ciliaris, Haller) is a ring of light grey matter, about a line and a half in breadth, which 2 x