ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 436 sterno-mastoid; the posterior rests on the vena innominata, the lower part of the carotid artery, the trachea, and thy- roid gland. 453. The thyro-hyoideus appears like a continuation of the preceding, as it arises from the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, and thence passes up to be inserted into the lower border of the great cornu of the os hyo- ides. It is concealed by the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid muscles, and rests on the thyro-hyoid membrane. 454. The crico-thyroideus is a remarkably short muscle, placed below the preceding, and, as its name implies, is attached to the cricoid and thyroid cartilages; its direc- tion being obliquely upwards and outwards, diverging from its fellow of the opposite side. By this arrangement the crico-thyroid membrane is left uncovered, except by the skin and fascia, where it is to be punctured in the operation of laryngotomy. This 'muscle is concealed by the sterno- hyoideus, and thyroideus. 455. The omo-hyoideus consists of two bellies, united at an angle. One of these lies close to the external border of the sterno-hyoideus muscle, and is covered only by the platisma and fascia, the other is deeply seated, lying be- hind the clavicle and sterno-mastoid. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, near the supra-scapular notch, and from the ligament which crosses it. From thence the muscle, forming a narrow, flat fasciculus, inclines forwards across the root of the neck, where it suddenly changes its direction, ascending almost vertically, to be inserted into the lower border of the os hyoides, at the union of its body and cornu. The two parts of the muscle here described form an angle, where they lie behind the sterno-mastoid, and are connected to each other by a short, flat tendon. This will be found enclosed within two lamellae of the deep cervical fascia, and thereby connected with the cartilage of the first rib. It is by this mode of connexion that the an- gular position of the muscle is maintained.