PERINEUM—ITS DISSECTION.—DEEP FASCIA. 555 ficial fascia being drawn aside, and pinned back on the reflected integument, the superficial perinaeal artery will be found running in the angular interval between the accelerator urinae and erector penis. Midway between the margin of the anus and the bulb of the urethra a narrowed point exists, which forms the common cen- tre of the perinaeal muscles: to it converge the transversi muscles from the sides, and the sphincter from behind, and from it the lower fibres of the acceleratores diverge. The last named muscles may be divided along their raphe, or common line of junction, and reflected carefully outwards, so as to expose the bulb, which will be found invested by a thin, smooth lamella, prolonged upon it from the margin of the deep perinaeal fascia, through which the canal of the urethra must necessarily pass, when emerging from the pelvis into the perinoeum. The deep perincecd fascia is a thin, yet firm membrane, which fills up the interval between the rami of the pubis and ischia, so that it is thereby rendered triangular in its form. In its mode of attachment and general characters it presents some similitude to the obturator fascia, which fills the foramen of that name. It should be observed, that this structure has been variously denominated by different writers. Camper* and Douglas named it ligamentum triangulare. M. Velpeau-p has devised or adopted the term recto-vesical aponewosis. The terms ligament, tendon, aponeu- rosis, and fascia, appear to be ordinarily used, as if they were synonymous. It would be well to confine each of them to parti- cular forms of structure. A ligament is properly a fasciculus of tendinous fibres connecting bones, and for the most part entering into the formation of joints; a tendon is the cord-like prolongation of a muscle ; an aponeurosis is the expanded fibrous lamella pro- longed from a broad muscle; whilst the term fascia, in strictness, denotes a membrane serving to invest parts, or to support them. In this sense we here apply the term to the fibro-cellular lamella which fills up the outlet of the pelvis, and assists in supporting its viscera: it is also called the deep fascia, to distinguish it from the superficial one already noticed. The deep perinaeal fascia is attached on each side to the osseous boundaries of the perinaeal space, which thus determine its form, * Fasciculi Anatomico-pathologici. f Anatomie des Regions,