THE VERTEBRA. of its extent, but at its junction with the rest of the verte- brae, a smooth and slightly excavated surface may be ob- served on its upper border, marking the course of the ver- tebral artery. The articulating processes are horizontal and large, the superior pair, which receive the condyles of the occipital bone, oval and concave from before backwards, look inwards towards one another, but the inferior are flat, and nearly circular in their form; finally, the transverse processes project considerably on each side, and terminate in a point. The ring, in the fresh state, is divided into two parts by a transverse ligament, the anterior one being occupied by the odontoid process of the axis, the posterior by the medulla spinalis. The second vertebra, or Axis, (so called from forming the pivot on which the head rotates) is somewhat triangular in its form. The body presents anteriorly a vertical ridge, bounded on each side by a depression for the attachment of the longus colli muscle ; superiorly it is surmounted by a process (dentata, odontoid) presenting two smooth sur- faces, one for its articulation with the axis, the other with the transverse ligament which retains it in its situation. The spinous process is thick, and grooved on its inferior surface. The superior articulating processes are nearly horizontal, the inferior flat, and directed downwards and forwards. The transverse process is neither grooved nor bifurcated, and the foramen at its root is inclined obliquely outwards. The seventh, or prominent vertebra, approaches in its characters to those of the dorsal region; its spinous pro- cess is long, and terminates in a tubercle, and its transverse process presents no foramen. The first dorsal vertebra is marked at each side by a complete articular surface for the first rib, and on its infe- rior border by a slight excavation, which receives half the head of the second ; the articular processes are oblique, and the spinous more nearly horizontal than any of the rest. The tenth dorsal vertebra is usually marked by an arti-