574 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. its origin, and is connected with it by the serous lamella of the pericardium. At its point of bifurcation it is also connected to the concavity of the aortic arch, by the ductus arteriosus in foetal life, and subsequently by the ligamentous remains of that vessel. The right branch, larger and longer than the left, inclines almost transversely towards the corresponding lung, which it reaches after passing behind the ascending aorta and the superior vena cava: it lies upon the right bronchus, but soon makes a turn so as to embrace it; after which it divides into three branches. The left branch passes in front of the descending aorta, immediately beneath its arch, and after reaching the upper border of the corresponding bronchus, divides into two branches. The primary and each succeeding division of the pulmonary arteries corres- pond with those of the bronchial tubes, whose course they fol- low to their final terminations in the air vesicles, where they become capillary. The pulmonary veins, two in number on each side, commence by minute radicles, which are continuous with the capillary ter- minations of the arteries. They are found to converge to the root of the lung, from different parts of its structure, and in their course increase in size as they diminish in number. The veins of the right lung pass behind the right auricle and the superior vena cava ; those of the left have a shorter course to run, in order to reach the left auricle, which is their common destination. 3. The bronchial arteries are remarkably variable in their number and mode of origin. That of the right side comes either from the aorta, or the first intercostal artery; the left arises singly, or by a trunk common with the preceding vessel, from the aorta. On reaching the root of the lungs, each divides into four or five branches, which follow the divisions of the bronchi until they be- come capillary. The veins which return the blood of the bronchial arteries, donotunite to form trunks corresponding with those of the latter: some of them terminate in the vena azygos, or the superior cava: similar vessels pass from the posterior part of the lung into the oesophagean and intercostal veins. In other situations some of them open into the pulmonary veins. Some anatomists have been led to conclude, from a consideration of the size of the lungs, that they could not be dependent on the bronchial arteries