321 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES—THEIR DISSECTION. investment for the quadratus lumborum, similar in many respects to the sheath of the rectus. Let us suppose that it is intended to examine this structure on the right side; it then will be found convenient to lay the subject on the left, and to have it secured in that position. If the internal oblique be traced back, its muscular fibres will be found to end in an aponeurosis, which becomes inti- mately connected with the inner surface of the latissimus dorsi, close to the border of the deep lumbar muscles. Now, if the aponeurosis of the latissimus be divided, in the middle of its breadth, by an incision drawn from the ileum to the last rib, and the two parts reflected, the thick mass of lumbar muscles will be exposed, and if the handle of the scalpel be inserted beneath their outer border, they will be found to lie on a membrane, which is connected with the lumbar vertebrae on the one hand, and with the abdominal muscles on the other, being in fact a prolongation of the latter. The mass of lumbar muscles may now be cut across, opposite the last rib, and at the crista ilei, and removed altogether. When this is effected, if the attention be directed to the internal oblique muscle, it will be found that the fascia in which it ends posteriorly, divides into two lamellae, one being connected with the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi, and with it carried to the spinous processes of the vertebrae behind the lumbar muscles, whilst the other proceeds to the points of the transverse processes. Again, if the latter lamella be divided by a perpendicular incision from the last rib to the ileum, and reflected outwards, the quadra- tus lumborum muscle will be exposed ; and, if its external border be raised, another lamella will be found covering its abdominal surface, and connected with the roots of the transverse processes. To the aggregate of these processes of membrane, thus sent back to the lumbar vertebrae from the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, the term fascia lumborum is applied. The subject, when this part of the dissection has been com- pleted, may be turned on its back, in order that the inguinal re- gion may be examined, which is an indispensable preliminary to a correct knowledge of the structure of the parts connected with those intestinal protrusions to which the term hernia is applied (e^ko?, a tumour). It will be recollected that an angular flap of integument still remains, covering the iliac region. The skin alone should be raised over this part, and reflected down on the fore part of the Y