EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 469 the pair into which it ultimately divides, which may be arranged into sets as follow:—1. The anterior branches, consisting of the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial. 2. The posterior set, viz. the occipital and posterior auris. 3. The internal, being the pharyngea ascendens. 4. The ter- minal ones, which are the temporal and internal maxillary. 521. 1. The superior thyroid artery (thyroidea descen- dens) is given off close to the commencement of the external carotid, from which it inclines downwards and inwards, somewhat in a serpentine manner, to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. It then descends a little to reach the thyroid gland, and divides into three branches, one of which runs transversely to anastomose with the correspond- ing vessel of the opposite side, whilst the others ramify freely in the substance of the gland, and communicate with the ascending thyroid from the subclavian artery. The vessel is at first covered only by the platisma and fascia. Besides the proper thyroid, or terminal branches, it gives off the following: a.—An ascending superficial branch, which passes just below or upon the os hyoides, and forms an arch with its fellow of the op- posite side, sending at the same time ramusculi to the adjacent muscles and integuments. b. A descending superficial branch passes down, and divides into several ramusculi, which supply the thyroid muscles, the sterno-mastoid, the platisma and integument. c. The laryngeal branch inclines inwards with the nerve of the same name, and in most instances pierces the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, but in some it passes through a foramen in the thyroid cartilage. In either case, on reaching the inside of the larynx, it divides into three twigs, which take different directions for the supply of the small muscles and lining membrane of the organ. 522. 2. The lingual artery (arteria lingualis) inclines forwards and inwards to the cornu of the os hyoides, where it passes between the hyo-glossus and the middle constric- tor of the pharynx. So far the direction of the vessel is horizontal, but it soon ascends almost perpendicularly?