ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 62 4 sion made from the valve of Vieusseus downwards through its substance, the fourth ventricle will be exposed. This cavity con- tracts towards its upper part into a tube (aqueduct of Silvius), which is directed upwards and forwards, under the corpora quadri- gemina and the posterior commissure, into the middle or third ventricle. The latter again communicates at each side with the lateral ventricles by a rima (foramen Monroi), situated between the pillars of the fornix and the thalami, on which they rest. When the ventricles have been distended with fluid this’rima as- sumes a rounded form, and then only represents a foramen. These vacuities, then, should be considered not as so many separate cavi- ties, but as a series of compartments of one cavity contained within the cerebral mass, and this is the appearance they present during the earlier periods of foetal life. The cavity, however, is not -a shut sack, for the membrane which lines it is continuous with that which invests the external surface of the brain and cere- bellum. It has been already stated, that the arachnoid membrane passes in through the fissure of Bichat. Two other fissures are situated on either side between the corpora fimbriata and the crura cerebri, through which the pia mater enters, to form the plexus choroides. These may be considered as chinks between the portions of cerebral substance just referred to; but they are closed up by the manner in which the arachnoid membrane is reflected from the sides of the cornua of the ventricles upon the plexus choroides. The cerebral hemispheres are considered by Gall as resulting from an expansion or evolution of the fibres of the medulla; hence these are termed primitive, or formative fasciculi. The fibres of the anterior pyramids may be traced upwards to the margin of the pons, where they become somewhat constricted. From the inner border of each, fibres pass across the middle sulcus, and mutually change place, or decussate, those of the right side passing to the left, and “ vice versa.” If an incision, a line or two in depth, be made through the pons, so that one lateral half of it may be turned outwards, the fibres of the pyramid will be observed to pass into a quantity of grey substance lodged in the interior of the nodus ence- phali. In this situation the fibres diverge and separate, and are also considerably increased : at the upper margin of the pons they