ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 44-8 been supposed to be a single muscle; but there are really two thin fasciculi, separated by a slight cellular interval above, which usually unite towards the lower part. Each arises from the pointed process of the palate plate, and descends verti- cally, becoming blended with the other structures in the uvula. 477. The palato-glossus, or constrictor isthmi faucium, inclines from the uvula forwards and outwards to the side <of the tongue, where it may be considered as inserted. It is merely covered by the mucous membrane, which it ren- ders prominent, so as to form the anterior palate arch. 477. Thepalato-pharyngeus arches downward and back- wards, so as to leave an angular interval between it and the preceding. It commences at the uvula, and descends into the pharynx, being intimately connected with its muscles, and is prolonged as far as the cornu of the thyroid car- tilage. It forms the posterior arch or pillar of the velum palatL Actions.—When the mass of food is carried back towards the fauces, the soft palate is raised nearly to a level with the hard one, and not only serves to prevent the ingesta from passing into the nares, but also, by the contraction of its two arched mus- cles, assists in thrusting them down into the pharynx. The cir- cumflex muscles stretch the palate from side to side, rendering it tense, whilst the proper elevators raise it up, and then the palato- glossi and pharyngei, taking their fixed points below, are enabled, by depressing the palate, to force down the food into the cavity ready to receive it. 479. The tongue is not only the proper organ of taste, but, by means of its great mobility, assists other parts in deglutition, in speech, in suction, &c. Its upper surface, or dorsum, is convex in its general outline, and marked along the middle by a slight groove, or raphe, which divides it into two symmetrical halves. About a quarter of an inch from its base will be observed a round hole (foramen caecum), which forms a sort of reservoir for some