472 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. rioris, and the skin supplying both, whilst the other lies between that muscle and the bone, sending twigs to the substance of the lip, and communicating with the following branch. The sub- mental artery will sometimes be found of considerable size, and then it gives off the sublingual. e.—labialis inferior, vel svperficiulis, inclines inwards, sending ramusculi to the muscles of the lower lip, and anastomosing with the coronaria inferior, with the submentalis, and the termination of the dental artery. f — Coronaria lahii inferioris arises near the angle of the mouth, and takes a transverse and tortuous course upon the mucous membrane, covered by the muscles of the lip, at the middle of which it inosculates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. Some of its ramusculi pass upwards into the orbicular and depressor muscles, others downwards to the chin, communicating with the branches that ramify there. g. — Coronaria lahii svperioris is larger, and more tortuous than the preceding, above which it arises, taking a similar course as it proceeds inwards, across the upper lip. It passes under cover of the zigomaticus and orbicularis, and forms an arch by inosculation wdth the corresponding artery of the opposite side. 'In addition to several small twigs to the muscles of the lip, it gives twro or three to the nose. One of these (nasalis septi) pro- ceeds along the septum to the extremity of the nose ; the other (nasalis lateralis) ramifies on the side of the nose, and forms a mi- nute net-work on its ala, to which the nasal branch of the oph- thalmic artery also contributes. The facial artery is the chief medium of communication between the superficial and deep branches of the external carotid, by means of its anastomoses with the infra-orbital, dental, and nasal branches. Also between the external and internal carotids, by its anastomosis with the ophthalmic artery. 524. 4. The pharyngeal artery, (pharyngea ascendens) lies deeply, and concealed from view, until some of the branches of the carotid artery and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle are drawn aside. It arises near the lingual artery, or even from the bifurcation of the common carotid, and is the smallest of the branches of the external carotid. It