534 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. they descend. They form two folds, so placed as to leave an elliptic interval (rima) between them, the external part of each being continuous with the skin of the thigh, and covered with scattered hairs, whilst the inner is lined by mucous membrane, forming the commencement of the genito- urinary mucous system. The labia unite both beneath the mons, and before the perinaeum, the points of union being called commissures; the inferior one has also received the name offourchette, or frcenulum pudendi, and the inter- val between the fraenum and the entrance of the vagina has been called fossa navicularis. 3. The Hymen is a thin, lunated duplicature of the mucous membrane, placed at the lateral and inferior parts of the entrance of the vagina, its concave margin looking obliquely upwards. In the same situation are found, after the rupture of the membrane, some small rounded masses called carunculce myrtiformes. 4. Beneath the upper commissure, and within the labia, is the clitoris, a small elongated body, resembling in confor- mation and structure the diminutive of the penis: thus, it is sustained by two corpora cavernosa, and attached by crura to the rami of the pubis. It is also surmounted by a glans, though imperforate, from which depends a fold of membrane analagous to the prepuce, and acted on by a muscle similar to the erector penis. 5. From the clitoris two folds of mucous membrane descend, in form not unlike a cock’s comb. Their inner surface is continuous with that of the vagina, the external insensibly passes into that of the labia. These are called nymphce, or labia interna. 6. Between the nymphae, and beneath the clitoris, is an an- gular interval called vestibule, at the centre of whose base is situated a circular orifice leading to the meatus urina- rius. The membranous fold which surrounds it is rather prominent in some instances, so as readily to indicate its situation. The meatus itself is not more than an inch in length, but its diameter is greater, and more dilatable than in the male. Its direction is obliquely downwards and for-