ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 454 noid cartilage. They lie in the interval between the alae of the thyroid cartilage and the glottis, concealed by the lining membrane. 492. The thyro-arytcenoidei are placed immediately above the preceding, and are united with them at the point of in- sertion; they are stretched from before backwards, between the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage at its angle, and the base of the arytasnoid cartilages, at their anterior border. They lie parallel with the rima. Some muscular fibres may also be traced from near the origin of the pre- ceding, which ascend to the margin of the epiglottis. These are described by some anatomists as depressores epi- glottidis, but it may be observed, that the closure of the aperture by means of the epiglottis, is effected by the as- cent of the whole larynx, by which the rima is drawn, as it were, under cover of its operculum, and not by the descent of the latter upon it. 493. The arytcenoidens muscle consists of oblique and transverse fibres intimately blended together, and laid upon the posterior concave surface of the arytaenoid cartilages. Albinus and Winslow, from a consideration of the dif- ference in the direction of its fibres, divided the muscle into three, viz. two oblique, and one transverse; but as all conspire in their actions, and are inseparably connected together, most modern anatomists describe them as a single muscle. The oblique fibres pass from the base of one cartilage towards the apex of the other, crossing in the middle. The transverse fibres pass from one border to the other, and are partly covered by the oblique. Actions.—The arytsenoideus contracts the base or widest part of the rima, rendering it an elongated chink, and is therefore the direct antagonist of the posterior crico-arytaenoid muscles, which draw the bases of the cartilages outwards, and widen the interval between them. These cartilages are, on the contrary, drawn for- wards, (and the antero-posterior extent of the aperture thereby diminished) by the lateral muscles, which pass to them from the