THE BLADDER. 519 an excrementitious fluid is allowed to rest on the structure of an organ, unprotected by a tegumentary membrane. Again, though the fibrous investment of each infundibulum and calyx seems also to cease at the margin of the papilla, it i3 more than probable that it also is prolonged, so as to become continuous with the fibres which constitute the tubuli. The renal artery is derived from the aorta, and divides into five or six branches, previously to entering the fissure of the kidney ; its branches pass between the papillae, and so continue until they reach the bases of the conical masses, where they divide and ra- mify, so as to form a complete vascular net-work, encasing the inner or tubular structure, and so forming a cortex or exterior in- vestment for it. The capillary ramifications of the artery thus disposed communicate with the tubuli uriniferi, and also with the radicles of the renal vein, which reconveys the effete blood into the course of the circulation. 573. The ureter descends along the lumbar region, and over the margin of the pelvis, from whence it is directed towards the base of the bladder, with which it comes into contact close to the posterior extremity of the vesicula se- minalis (in the male). 574. The supra-renal capsules are so named from sur- mounting the kidneys. Each of these bodies is compressed, and rather flat; the upper border is convex, and the lower excavated by a groove, which receives the extremity of the kidney. In the foetus they are large, and granulated in their structure, but in the adult their size is considerably diminished, and texture altered. Their interior is hollowed into a small triangular cavity, containing a viscid fluid. 575. The bladder (vesica urinaria) is a musculo-mem- branous reservoir, placed deeply in the pelvis, behind the pubic symphysis, and before the rectum, communicating with the kidneys by the ureters, and externally by the urethra. In infancy the bladder is elongated and pyriform in its shape, and contained altogether in the abdomen. At this period it may be considered as divisible into three portions; the rounded or upper extremity being with pro-