57* ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. closed in a quantity of cellular tissue, which forms a connecting medium between them. 1. The bronchus is a division of the trachea; the latter is a cylindrical tube extending from the cricoid cartilage to the second or third dorsal vertebra, where its division into the bronchi takes place. It rests on the oesophagus, which, however, inclines some- what to its left side. It is inclosed between the great vessels of the neck, and covered partly by the thyroid gland and its veins, also by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and crossed by the left vena innominata, the arteria innominata, and the arch of the aorta. The bronchi, commencing at the bifurcation of the trachea, incline laterally towards the lungs; the right one, larger but shorter than the other, inclines outwards, almost hori- zontally, and enters the lung on a level with the fourth dorsal vertebra; it is inclosed by the termination of the vena azygos, which hooks round it, and by the arch formed by the right pul- monary artery. The left bronchus, less in diameter, but longer than the right, inclines obliquely downwards and outwards to reach the lung. The arch of the aorta hooks round it, and the left pulmonary artery lies upon its superior and anterior border. Each bronchus, at its entrance into the lung, divides into two branches, one being intended for each lobe. The lower branch of the right lobe also subdivides, or rather gives off a branch to its middle lobe. Each bronchial ramification again resolves itself into two tubes of smaller size ; and so, by means of this binary division, continued through five or six successive stages of decrease, a series of tubes is formed, increasing in number as they decrease in size, until, finally, each becoming capillary, terminates in a minute cul-de-sac or air-vesicle, the aggregate of which constitutes the proper cellular structure of the lungs. The trachea is composed of fibro-cartilaginous rings, varying from sixteen to twenty in number, and of membranes which connect them. A thin, yet elastic fibrous lamella, forms the circumference of the tube, serving to connect the cartilaginous rings, which seem as if developed in its interior, and also to complete the circuit posteriorly where these rings are deficient. Interior to these is situated the mucous lining, continuous superiorly with that of the larynx, and ulti-