510 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. into two parts, but unequally, by a transverse slit (Jiilus lienis) for the transmission of its vessels. The spleen has a peritoneal investment prolonged to it from the stomach, by which, as well as by vessels, it is connected to that organ ; but it has also a smooth and fibrous tunick proper to itself. The splenic artery is of considerable size. The vein terminates in the vena portae ; and its nerves are de- rived from the solar plexus. 568. The pancreas is a conglomerate gland, being com- posed of a number of granules aggregated together, in which respect, as well as in its function, it resembles the salivary glands with which it is classed. It lies deeply in the epigastric region, resting on the spine, and concealed by the stomach, one end being in contact with the spleen, the other surrounded by the curve of the duodenum, so that its direction is obliquely downwards, and to the right side. The gland is compressed and flat, and after the stomach is drawn upwards, it will be found still covered by the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. The superior mesenteric artery w'ill be observed interposed be- tween its lower surface and border, and the transverse part of the duodenum, and along its superior and posterior margin run the splenic vessels. The left or splenic extre- mity is narrow and thin ; the right is broader, and called the head of the pancreas ; a small part of it is also de- tached somewhat from the rest, and called the lesser pan- creas. Its excretory duct commences by filaments that issue from the different granules, and gradually increases in size as it proceeds from left to right through the substance of the gland, and will be found nearer the lower than the upper border. Near the duodenum the duct emerges from the gland, and pierces obliquely the coats of that intestine to open conjointly with the ductus choledochus at its se- cond curve. The mucous membrane, as has been observed, (p. 32,) forms a continuous tube from one extremity of the alimentary canal to the