86 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. two parts, but unequally, by a prominent ridge, (the spine)', of these the superior one is called fossa supra-spinata, the inferior, fossa infra-spinata. The spine is a triangular emi- nence, flattened from above downwards, commencing, at the posterior border of the scapula, with a smooth flat sur- face, from which it becomes gradually more elevated as it proceeds forwards, until it terminates in an elongated pro- cess (acromion) which surmounts the shoulder joint. Its su- perior surface is concave, and conjointly with the superior part of the dorsum of the scapula, forms the fossa supra-spi- nata. The inferior surface is irregularly triangular, con- stitutes part of the infra spinous fossa, and in its middle may be observed a small foramen for a nutritious vessel. On the external border, which is rough and broad, may be observed two margins, of which the superior one gives at- tachment to the trapezius, the inferior to the deltoid muscle. The internal border, or base, rests on the dorsum of the bone; the anterior one, round and somewhat concave, ap- proaches the neck of the bone, and is continuous with the under surface of the acromion. This is a considerable emi- nence, flattened in the direction opposite to that of the spine. Its posterior and upper surface, convex and irregu- lar, is subcutaneous; the anterior and inferior one, concave and smooth, is in relation with the supra-spinatus muscle, and looks towards the shoulder joint; the superior border presents, anteriorly, a small oval surface for its articulation with the external extremity of the clavicle, and its summit affords attachment to the coraco-acromion ligament. The posterior extremity of the spine is depressed and triangular, the base of the triangle constituting part of the posterior border, or base of the scapula. The fossa supra-spinata is wider posteriorly than anteriorly. The fossa infra-spi- nata much larger than the preceding, is convex in the middle, somewhat concave, or rather grooved, inferiorly. Between the latter part and the axillary border is a slightly raised and elongated surface, extending from the inferior