ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 412 The latter accompany the arteries, whose course has been described in the preceding section, commencing at their digital extremities. The incipient ramusculi unite into branches of larger size, which are observed to lie in pairs at each side of the radial and ulnar arteries, and, at the bend of the elbow, these two pairs converge, and form a pair, bearing a similar relation to the brachial artery in its entire course, and hence named venae comites vel satellites. These finally merge in the axillary vein. The superficial yeins are much larger, and lie between the skin and fascia. They commence on the dorsal surface of the fingers, and as they converge and communicate with one another on the back of the hand, they form a sort of venous plexus, from which issue two chief veins, that take, oDe the radial, the other the ulnar border of the fore-arm. 426. The radial cutaneous veins commence by ramus- culi placed on the dorsal surface of the thumb and fore- finger. These ascend upon the outer border of the wrist, and form by their union a pretty large vessel, which passes along the radial border of the fore-arm, receiving numerous branches from its anterior and posterior surfaces. At the bend of the arm it receives a division of the median vein, and there changes its name, being in the rest of its course called the cephalic vein. The cephalic vein ascends along the external border of the biceps muscle, and then in the interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid, and finally terminates in the axillary vein, between the coracoid process and the clavicle. 427. There are two ulnar cutaneous veins, one on the anterior, the other on the posterior surface of the fore-arm. The posterior one begins on the back of the hand by some ramusculi, which unite to form a vein placed over the fourth metacarpal space, and called by some of the older anatomists “ salvatella.” This proceeds along the ulnar border of the fore-arm, at its posterior aspect, and some- what below the bend of the elbow, turns forwards to join