285 EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. fibres of the transversalis, and so is placed between that muscle and the internal oblique, and soon after between the latter and the external oblique. To these muscles it gives delicate branches, and terminates by sending two or three which ramify on the integument of the groin and scrotum, after having passed through the external abdo- minal ring. 303. 2. The external cutaneous branch (inguino-cutanee, Chauss.) passes from beneath the psoas muscle on a level with the crista ilei, runs from thence downwards, and a little outwards, lying on the fascia iliaca. On reaching the ante- rior superior spinous process of the ileum, it emerges from the pelvis, by passing through the interval between that process of bone and the inferior one, after which the nerve divides into two ramusculi, which separately pierce the fascia lata of the thigh, and proceed to different destinations. a. One of these inclines backwards, and becoming subcuta- neous, runs over the tensor vaginae muscle, and along the external part of the thigh, placed between the fascia and the integuments, distributing filaments as it descends, until it ceases to be discernible about the union of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, b. The anterior branch pierces the fascia from an inch and a half to two inches, below the anterior superior spine of the ileum, becom- ing also subcutaneous, and ramifies as far as the external side of the knee, in numerous delicate filaments, which will be found on the fascia covering the vastus externus muscle. 304. 3. The external pudic branch (nervus spermaticus externus, Soemm.; genito-cruralis) arises from the second lumbar nerve, pierces through the fibres of the psoas mus- cle and the fascia that covers it, and then runs vertically downwards, lying on the anterior surface of that muscle. In this course it is covered by the peritonaeum, and on ap- proaching the crural arch, it divides into two ramusculi, one being internal, the other external in its direction, a. The internal ramusculus, somewhat larger and longer than