419 CIRCUMFLEX NERVE. milar offsets from the nerves just mentioned, so as to form arches, whose convexity, for the most part, looks down to- wards the hand. Finally, on the fore part of the wrist, and root of the thumb, its terminal branches unite in the same way with the cutaneous branches sent by the median nerve, to the integument on the palm of the hand. 440, 6, The circumflex, or axillary nerve, is deeply seated, and altogether concealed by the plexus. It passes outwards and backwards immediately after its origin, and soon comes into contact with the posterior circumflex ar- tery. The nerve and artery will be observed to run toge- ther close behind the shaft of the humerus, in order to reach its external aspect, where they both turn forwards somewhat, so as to lie between the bone and the deltoid muscle, to which the branches of both are finally distri- buted. The long head of the triceps lies behind the nerve in the first part of its course, and the sub-scapularis above it, the teres major being below it. To each of these, fila- ments are given; and where it turns beneath the deltoid, a considerable branch descends, becoming superficial, and is distributed to the skin that covers that muscle and the tri- ceps extensor. 441. 7. The ulnar nerve, intermediate in size between the external cutaneous and median nerves, is usually de- tached from the plexus opposite the lower border of the sub-scapular muscle. It inclines a little backwards as it descends along the arm, resting first on the long, then on the short head of the triceps, until it i-eaches the interval between the inner condyle of the humerus and the olecranon. There the nerve, after passing through the interval be- tween the heads of the flexor ulnaris muscle, reaches the fore-arm, along which it descends, close to its ulnar border, resting on the flexor profundus muscle, and covered by the flexor ulnaris. Towards the lower part of the fore-arm the nerve lies close to the border of the tendon of that muscle, along which it runs to the pisiform bone and annu- 2 E 2