CERVICAL VESSELS'—-THEIR DISTRIBUTION. 479 passes directly backward to enter the vidian canal with the nerve of the same name. Hence it is termed the vidian or pterygoid branch. It is distributed to the Eustachian tube and top of the pharynx. m. —pterygo-palatina is a very small ramusculus, which passes backwards and upwards to reach the pterygo-palatine foramen, by which it reaches the top of the pharynx, where it freely ramifies, after having given some twigs to the Eustachian tube and sphe- noidal cells. n. —The nasal or spheno-palatine artery enters the foramen of that name, by which it reaches the cavity of the nose, at the pos- terior part of the superior meatus. There, lying between the mucous membrane and the bone, it divides into two or three ra- musculi; one of these ramifies on the septum narium, the others on the spongy bones, some twigs being sent into the posterior ethmoidal cells as well as the antrum, 533. The vessels here described, as arising from the ex- ternal carotid, present several varieties in their mode of origin in different instances, and some also as to the relative size of the branches, which two or more of them send to the same parts. If the supply from one quarter be greater than usual, that from another will be proportionally dimi- nished, by the operation of a principle of compensation so constantly observable in the distribution of vessels. If these arteries were merely branches from a common trunk, we should have marked their gradation by a smaller type; but, if viewed in a general way, it will be found that each of them is intended for a particular organ or system of organs, and therefore should be treated as a trunk in itself, or a special source of supply to the parts to which it is dis- tributed. Thus, the vocal, and part of the respiratory ap- paratus, are supplied by the superior thyroid artery, ramify- ing on the exterior as well as in the interior of the larynx. The upper part of the digestive tube derives its blood from the lingual, the palatine, and pharyngeal arteries. The face, including the organs of expression and mastication, receives necessarily several vessels, the facial and internal maxillary