elements of anatomy. 40 27. The surfaces of bones are marked by eminences and depressions adapted to various purposes. The eminences may be ranged under four heads. 1st. Those of articula- tion. 2nd. Insertion. 3rd. Impression. 4th. Reflexion. Those for articulation vary according as they are moveable or immoveable, and shall be described in the next chapter. Those for insertion are variously adapted for the attach- ment of muscles, or for tendons and ligaments. They pre- sent numerous differences in their degree of projection ac- cording to the sex, age, and muscular development of each individual. Their form is equally various. Some consist- ing of diffused asperities, others extending along the surface like rough lines, whilst others project more or less from the bone, intended not only to give insertion to muscles, but also to serve the purpose of increasing their power of ac- tion by removing their line of direction farther from the axis of the bone. The eminences of impression are certain prominent lines interposed between depressions on the surfaces of bones. Thus, the shallow pits on the cranial bones cor- responding with the convolutions of the brain, and the de- pressions on the external surface, marking the insertion of muscles, are separated by prominent lines, termed eminences of impression. The expression appears not to have been well chosen; it was originally founded on the supposition that the action of contiguous organs, by depressing certain parts of the surface of the bone, served to elevate others; but it is far more conformable to what occurs in other structures to refer to the laws of nutrition and growth, (by which different parts are mutually adapted to one another) the inequalities here alluded to, as well as those more prominent points to which muscles are attached. The latter are usually attributed to the action of the muscles drawing them out, and as it were moulding them; but, as Bichat observes, such an opinion founded on what occurs in soft and inorganic substances, ill accords with the known