632 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. in the following manner:—The fibres of the dura mater, on ap- proaching the sagittal suture from each side, divide into two la- mellae, one of which is continued uninterruptedly across, so as to maintain the continuity of the membrane, but the other dips down, converging to that of the opposite side, so that they inclose between them an angular interval, viz. the longitudinal sinus. After their union they continue to descend to the margin of the falx, where they separate, and unite again, so as to form the inferior longitudinal sinus. A section of the upper sinus is found to be triangular, of the lower circular. On the surface of the dura mater, and in close contact with the arch of the skull, several small granular bodies exist, called glandulce Pacchioni. b. The tentorium cerebelli spreads out from the base of the falx, and serves to support the posterior lobes of the brain: one border of it is attached all around to the lateral grooves on the occipital bone, and to the margin of the pars petrosa; the other, concave and free, bounds with the posterior clinoid processes, an oval interval, which transmits the crura cerebri, processus ad testes, and basilar artery, c. The falx cerebelli is a narrow fold placed between the lobes of the cerebellum, extending vertically from the under surface of the tentorium to the foramen magnum; its base lodges the occipital sinuses. The vascular system of the brain and spinal cord present several peculiarities. The arteries run separately from the veins, and their branches ramify minutely in the pia mater before they enter the cerebral substance. The small veins for the most part lie in the sulci, between the convolutions, and run with different degrees of obliquity to the sinuses, which are so many reservoirs formed in the substance of the dura mater. The form of the sinuses is irregular: they are lined by a continuation of the internal mem- brane of the jugular veins, which is prolonged into the sinuses, though their fibrous coat ceases at the jugular fossae. The sinuses which are formed in the processes of the dura mater converge to a common point, which corresponds with the internal occipital protuberance, and is called the conflux of the sinuses, or torcular Heruphili: its form is very irregular: if a square piece of bone be removed, and the dura mater laid open at the point above re- ferred to, the apertures of the following sinuses will be observed