ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 386 therefore of a hernial sack should it occupy that situation. The epigastric artery, arising from the iliac, runs obliquely along the external border of the crural ring, and must bear the same relation to a hernial tumour. Continuing to ascend, this vessel lies to the inner side of the spermatic artery and vas deferens, and, therefore, will be similarly placed with regard to the neck of an oblique, inguinal her- nia. When the obturator artery arises from the epigastric, which is not an unusual occurrence, it passes downwards and inwards into the pelvis. If it arises by a common trunk with the epigastric, or starts from that vessel close to its commencement, its course, as it descends, will lie ob- liquely along the lowrer half of the external border of the ring. In such a case that aperture, if viewed from within, the vessels having been injected, will present the form of an ellipse, its greater diameter being from before back- wards, the external side being formed by the two arteries diverging to their destinations, and the internal one by the curved base of Gimbemat’s ligament. But should the ob- turator artery arise from the epigastric higher up, its direc- tion will then correspond with the superior and inner bor- der of the ring, which will therefore be nearly surrounded by vessels. This, however, is a very rare occurrence. 342. Having thus examined the disposition and mutual relations of the different structures of which the abdominal parietes are composed, we proceed to make a few remarks on the practical application that may be made of the facts, which we have here reviewed in detail. We shall suppose that the subject lies on the table, and that the different pro- cesses of dissection above pointed out, have been con- ducted on one side, the other remaining untouched. It may in the first place be observed, that if a hernial tumour has occurred towards the lower part of the abdomen, the intestine must have escaped either immediately above Pou- part’s ligament, or below it. In the former case it is termed inguinal hernia, in the latter crural. It must obviously be a