44 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. cellular base, in the areolae of which is deposited a peculiar earthy salt. These constituents may be separated, so that each may be examined by itself. If a bone be macerated for some days in a dilute acid, the saline, or inorganic part is removed, whilst the organic remains ; the bone is thus rendered soft and flexible, but retains its form, its weight being diminished in proportion to the quantity of saline matter taken up by the acid; when reduced to this state, it presents no appearance of any particular arrangement of fibres, but by a continued maceration in water, it may be resolved into layers, each of which will be found to consist of a series of fibres aggre- gated together. If the process be still continued, the fibres become swollen and softened, and present an areolar tex- ture analogous to that of cellular tissue in other parts of the body. This then may be considered as forming the nidus for the deposition of that inorganic substance, on which the solidity and firmness of bone depend. If a cy- lindrical bone be examined in this way, its central portion is found to consist of several laminae, super-imposed one on the other; the external one is continuous throughout its whole extent, forming its general envelope, but those sub- jacent to it, as they pass from the centre, become gradually thinner, and turn inwards towards the axis of the bone, be- coming continuous with the lamellas which divide it into areolae or cells. In the flat and irregular bones, the com- pact structure which encloses them externally, sends off fila- ments and plates to divide their interior into cells or diploe. 30. By long continued boiling, as is well known, a large part of the animal matter of bone is extracted, and a solu- tion obtained, which concretes on cooling into a gelatinous mass. Again, if a bone be exposed to heat so as to expel all the animal matter, it is rendered brittle and light, but still retains its form; but if the heat be raised until the bone becomes red, it undergoes a semi-fusion, as occurs in