54 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. cular surface, which receives the entire of the head of the corresponding rib. The eleventh is distinguished by its transverse processes not presenting an articulating surface for the tubercle of the rib, whilst the form of its spinous process and body ap- proaches that of the lumbar vertebrae. The twelfth dorsal vertebra resembles the eleventh in most of its characters ; but its transverse processes are longer and thinner, and the inferior articular convex, and directed outwards, so that its conformation resembles that of the lumbar vertebras in these particulars. Amongst the lumbar vertebrae, the fifth only is distinguishable by any peculiarity deserving of notice, its body being thicker ante- riorly than posteriorly, and its transverse process short, thick, and rounded. 36. The bones just described, when ranged in their na- tural position, form a pyramid, the length of which is equal to about one third of the height of the body; taken as a whole it presents an anterior and posterior surface, two lateral ones, a base, and a summit, each deserving a parti- cular notice. The anterior surface is broad in the cervical, narrow in the dorsal, and again expanded in the lumbar region ; it is marked by a series of transverse grooves corresponding with the centre of the bodies of the vertebrae, and in the fresh state is covered by the anterior common ligament. When viewed in profile it presents three curves depending on the different degrees of thickness of the anterior and pos- terior part of the bodies of the vertebrae in the differ- ent regions, and also on that of the inter-vertebral sub- stance. In the neck and loins the convexity of the curve is forwards, in the back it is in the opposite direction. A slight degree of lateral curvature is also observable in most cases in the dorsal region, the convexity of which is direct- ed towards the right side. The older anatomists imagined this to be produced by the action of the aorta beating against the left side of the column; but Bichat attributed