PROFUNDA FEMORIS—ITS BRANCHES. 249 sciatic arteries. The ascending branches pass upwards beneath the sartorius and rectus, and finally under the tensor vaginae fe- moris, where they communicate with the terminal branches of the gluteal artery. The descending set pass outwards and down- wards upon the extensor muscles, covered by the rectus. They are usually three or four in number, some of them being of a con- siderable size; most of them are distributed to the muscles on the fore-part of the thigh, but one or two can be traced as far as the knee, where they anastomose with the superior articular arteries (internal and external) of the popliteal, and with the anastomotic branch of the femoral. b. The internal circumflex branch arises from the inner and pos- terior side of the profunda, and turns directly backwards between the pectineus and adductor brevis, so that only a small part of it can be seen without disturbing these muscles. On reaching the tendon of the obturator externus muscle, which in a manner guides it to the posterior part of the thigh, it divides into two branches, or rather sets of branches. One of these ascends, and is distributed partly to the external obturator muscle, where it anastomoses with the obturator artery, partly to the adductor brevis and gracilis ; the other branch passes backwards above the trochanter minor, and appears on the posterior aspect of the limb, between the quadratus femoris and adductor magnus, where it anastomoses with the sciatic and superior perforating arteries. When this transverse branch of the internal circumflex arrives op- posite the hip joint, it sends into it, through the notch in the aceta- bulum, an articular vessel, which passes beneath the transverse li- gament, and after supplying the adipose substance in the depth of the articulation, is guided to the head of the femur by the round ligament. In some instances this vessel is derived from the obtu- rator artery, sometimes the joint receives one from both.* c. The perforating branches, so called from piercing the adduc- tor muscles, are three or four in number. The first passes back- wards between the pectineus and adductor brevis, sometimes through the fibres of the latter, and finally through the adductor magnus, after which it immediately divides into branches, which are distributed to the adductor magnus, the biceps, and gluteus * Harrison, Surgical Anatomy of Arteries, vol. ii. p. 168.