THE BRAIN—ITS EXTERNAL SURFACE. 613 mater from the external surface into the lateral ventricle. The angular part of the anterior lobe, which is included between the internal termination of the fissure of Silvius, the longitudinal fissure, and the commissure of the optic nerves, has been named by Yicq-d’Azyr, substantia 'perfo- rata antica, and by Red, lamina cribrosa, because it pre- sents several foramina for the transmission of vessels. It deserves attention, inasmuch as the white lines seen at its inner border are derived from the corpus callosum. 657. Between the fissurte Sylvii, and corresponding with the interval between their internal terminations, is situated the commissure of the optic nerves. It is flat and quadrilateral in its form: one surface looks upwards to the brain, and is connected with the anterior termination of the corpus callosum, which passes upon it in the form of a thin semi -transparent lamella; the other surface looks down upon the processus olivaris of the sphenoid bone; the lateral and anterior margins are free, but the posterior one is intimately connected with a delicate stratum of grey matter, which is inserted between the nerves as they con- verge to thejr commissure. This is called by Soemmering tuber cinereum: it extends from the posterior margin of the commissure to the corpora albicantia, gradually be- coming a little thicker and firmer, for in front it is so thin as to be torn on the slightest touch. Its superior surface forms part of the floor of the third ventricle; the inferior one is slightly convex, and gives attachment by its centre to a funnel-shaped process, called infundibulum. This is a thin elongated process of reddish grey matter, inclined obliquely downwards and forwards from the tuber cine- reum to the pituitary gland : its extremities are slightly expanded, and its centre constricted, which gives it an hour-glass shape. The pituitary gland is lodged in the excavation in the body of the sphenoid bone, and is une- qually divided into two portions or lobes : the anterior, which is larger and more firm than the other, is convex in