INTRODUCTION. 17 necessary. It forms the basis of all our remedial means in the reduction of dislocations—in the treatment of fractures, it determines the proper position of parts under various cir- cumstances of accident or injury; and though within the wide range of the anatomist’s study, many subjects present themselves well calculated to awake attention—to excite an interest, there are none more likely to do so than the varied phenomena of muscular action. 12. Muscles, like all other agents, however they may be constituted, require support; they must be supplied from some source with the materials of nutrition and growth as well as of reparation, should they become the subjects of accidental injury: These various purposes are fulfilled by the arteries, which convey the necessary supplies; these in the next place claim attention, and require a particular ex- amination, in order to determine with precision their course, direction, and mode of distribution. As the blood con- veyed by these tubes is not altogether expended in the functions they are intended to perform, the residue, altered considerably in its properties, passes into a new set of ves- sels,—the veins, by which it is conveyed back to the heart preparatory to its circulation in the lungs, in which it is aerated. Now the remote or peripheral extremities of the veins are continuous with the capillary terminations of the arteries, the trunk being implanted into the heart; and, as they serve to complete the circle, their distribution is exa- mined after that of the arteries, taking it however in the opposite direction, viz. from the branches to the trunks. 13. However intimate the connexion between these dif- ferent structures may be, they are linked together even still more closely by another, which may be considered as superinduced upon them, for the purpose of associating into one harmonized mass all the parts of the body, and of establishing between them a reciprocal dependance and re- lation. These duties are in a manner delegated to the nervous system, whose fibrillae are ramified through all the c