684 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. its reflected tendon. It is lined by mucous membrane, continuous below with that of the nasal fossae, and above with the conjunctiva, through the medium of the lachrymal ducts; and invested externally by a thin fibrous membrane, serving at the same time as periosteum for the bones in which it is lodged. The nasal duct (ductus ad nasum) is from six to eight lines in length in the recent state, its direction being downwards, backwards, and a little out- wards, Communicating above with the lachrymal sack, it terminates in the inferior meatus by an oblique slit or orifice, which is surrounded by a small fold of the pitui- tary membrane. The muscles of the orbit are seven, viz. the levator pal- pebrae, the four recti, and two obliqui. 725. The levator palpebree arises above and before the margin of the optic foramen, from which it passes for- wards and outwards, mounting over the globe of the eye, and separated only from the roof of the orbit by the frontal nerve. Finally the muscle ends in a broad expansion, which curves downwards in the substance of the upper lid, to be inserted into the margin of the tarsal cartilage. 726. The four recti muscles at their origin surround the optic nerve, and at their insertion correspond with the opposite points of the globe of the eye : each of them has a double name, one being founded on its situation, the other on its action. The rectus superior (attollens) arises close by the foramen opticum, and beneath the levator palpebrre: it passes over the globe, and is inserted tendi- nous into the sclerotica, about two lines behind the cornea. The rectus inferior (depressor), rectus inlemus {adductor), and rectus externus (abductor), all arise by a common tendon, which is attached to the bony lamella that sepa- rates the foramen opticum from the sphenoidal fissure ; but the external rectus has another attachment besides that to the common tendon. Its second head arises from the margin of the sphenoidal fissure, near the superior