THE ARTICULATIONS. 145 the symphysis pubis, and that between the two first bones of the sternum, are all constructed on this principle. As the surfaces in these cases are flat and broad they possess in themselves no mechanical advantage, so that their union is maintained partly by the cartilages interposed between them, and partly by ligamentous and fibrous structures dis- posed round the articulations. 95. In the moveable articulations, or diarthrosis (Sia, through ; apOpov, articulation), as the surfaces are merely in contact with one another, the connexion between the parts is maintained by means of ligaments and fibrous membranes; for, though cartilages are interposed between their adjacent extremities, they do not form a bond of union between them» as they are calculated to facilitate motion, rather than to restrain it. But the muscles which surround the different moveable articulations contribute materially to retain the articular surfaces in their natural situations, and to prevent displacement. This is particularly evident in the shoulder joint, in which the head of the humerus is kept in contact with the glenoid cavity, not so much by the fibrous capsule, which is weak and loose, as by the surrounding muscles; for if these be weakened by paralysis; luxation may be rea- dily produced. The joints in the extremities are all refer- rible to the moveable class, so is that of the lower jaw with the skull, and of the latter with the vertebral column. In the greater number of instances one of the articular surfaces is convex, the other concave, but each of these forms exhi- bits some varieties of conformation, which are designated by particular names. Thus an articulating eminence, round- ed and globular, so as to form a segment of a sphere, is called a head; but if it be elongated, the term condyle is used. These are in some cases, supported by a contracted or thin portion (neck), which connects them with the body of the bone. If two condyles be placed in apposition, so as to leave a fossa between them, and constitute a pulley-like surface, it is termed trochlea. When plane, even surfaces L