THE SKULL—ITS GENERAL CONFORMATION. 127 Remarks on the General Conformation of the Skull. The bones of the skull, and those of the face, are joined together by seams or sutures. The cranial sutures are five in number, of which three are termed true, as the margins of the bones are, in a manner, dove-tailed one into another; and two are called false, or squamous, as they merely overlap one another, like the scales of fishes. The true sutures are 1, the coronal, which connects the frontal and parietal bones; it extends obliquely over the arch of the skull, and is so named from being situated where the ancients wore their corona, or garlands. 2. The lambdoidal, which is si- tuated between the occipital, parietal, and temporal bones, its form resembling, somewhat, that of the Greek letter A, whence its name. 3. The sagittal extends directly backwards, from the middle of the coronal to that of the lambdoidal suture, and con- nects the two parietal bones; in children, and occasionally in adults, more particularly in females, it is prolonged through the frontal bone, even to the root of the nose. The serrated appearance of the sutures is perceptible only on the external surface of the bones, their internal surface, or table of each, as it is called, being merely in apposition with the contiguous bone. The squamous sutures are arched, and mark the junction of the lower borders of the parietal bones with the squamous parts of the temporal. The line of direction of the sutures is not unfrequently interrupted by additional bones, inserted between those hitherto enumerated. These, from being sometimes of a triangular Term, are called ossa triquetra, and also ossa Wormiana, from Wormius, an anatomist, who gave a detailed description of them. The cranial bones are joined to those of the face by five sutures, which are common to both sets of bones. The transverse suture, observable at the root of the nose, extends across the orbits, and connects the frontal with the nasal, superior maxillary, ossa un- guis, the ethmoid, sphenoid, and malar bones. The zigomatic sutures, directed obliquely downwards and backwards, join the zigomatic processes of the temporal with the malar bones. The ethmoid suture surrounds the bone of the same name; so does the sphenoid, which must be complex and irregular, in consequence of the many relations of the sphenoid bone. The lines of connexion between the nasal and maxillary bones, though sufficiently marked,