437 D1 GASTRICUS. Actions.—All the individuals of this group of muscles take their fixed point below, and therefore conspire in being depressors of the larynx and os hyoides, which is perceptible in these parts when they descend, as deglutition is being performed. The thyro- hyoideus is the only one of them that acts as an elevator. As a preparatory measure to swallowing, the pharynx is drawn up, so is the os hyoides ; and, as a means of security, the larynx at the same moment is made to ascend, so as to be brought under cover of the epiglottis; this is effected by the contraction of the thyro- hyoideus, assisted by the stylo-pharyngeus, the latter being, in fact, inserted into the thyroid cartilage. Four muscles are placed obliquely at the upper part of the neck. 456. The digastricus muscle is placed in a curved direc- tion across the upper part of the neck, a little below the margin of the jaw-bone. As its name implies, it consists of two fleshy bellies, united by a rounded, middle tendon, each of which parts has a separate attachment. The posterior belly arises from the digastric groove behind the mastoid process, the anterior is inserted into a slight depression at the inside of the lower border of the jaw-bone, close to its symphysis, whilst the tendon is connected with the cornu of the os hyoides by a dense fascia, and by the fleshy fibres of the stylo-hyoideus muscle, through which the tendon passes. Now, as the side of the os hyoides is beneath both points of attachment, and nearly in the middle be- tween them, the fleshy bellies, where they end in the ten- don, must form an angle with one another, which, if stretched, the whole muscle will describe a curve. The anterior belly lies immediately under the skin, and rests on the mylo-hvoideus muscle, being in close contact with its fellow of the opposite side; the posterior is covered by the sterno-mastoid, and crosses both carotid arteries and the ju- gular vein. Its upper margin bounds the submaxillary gland. 457. The stylo-hyoideus lies close to the posterior belly of the preceding muscle, being a little behind and beneath