ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 512 they nppear to be calculated, like the valvulse conniventes, to increase the extent of absorbing surface. Lastly, we observe the mucous membrane, elevated by small granules placed beneath it, varying in number and size in different situations. They are for the most part convex and lenticular, with a minute pore on their exterior, which serves for the exit of their secretion. They may all be included under the general term of mucous glands or follicles ; but, in the intestines, they assume a peculiar arrangement, and are divided into two classes, each being called after the name of an anatomist, who particularly described them. At the pyloric end of the stomach, the mucous glands, though numerous, are yet separated from one another by small intervals ; hence they are called solitarice, and also for the reason above stated, glandulce Brunneri: they gradually diminish in number to- wards the end of the duodenum. The other set is divided into groups, (agminatee) which begin in the jejunum, and become ex- ceedingly* numerous towards the lower part of the ileum; these are the glands of Beyer. 569. The liver (hepar, jecur) is of considerable size ; it occupies the right hypochondriac, and part of the epigas- tric region, extending also somewhat into the left hypo- chondriac, and so will be found placed beneath the dia- phragm, above the stomach and arch of the colon, behind the cartilages of the ribs, and before the spine—the aorta and vena cava being interposed. In this situation it is re- tained by four folds of peritonaeum, called ligaments, viz. the falx, or falciform fold, on its upper surface, and the coro- nary, and two lateral ones, placed at its posterior border. These shall be described with the other processes of the peritonaeum. 570. The form of the liver is very irregular, which im- poses on us the necessity of considering separately each of its surfaces, borders, and extremities. The superior sur- face, smooth and convex in its general outline, corresponds with the arch of the diaphragm, and is divided by the falx into two parts or lobes, named from their position,—the right and left lobes, the former being considerably the larger.