329 HERNIA—CRIBRIFORM SHEATH. 336. After having thus described all that part of the inguinal region which lies above Poupart’s ligament, the iliac portion of the fascia lata may be divided by a trans- verse incision, and drawn outwards. The lower border of the ligament may in the next place be defined by passing the handle of a scalpel beneath it. When this is done, a funnel-shaped membranous tube will be observed passing down behind it, narrowing as it descends, and investing the femoral vessels. If some of the superficial inguinal glands have been retained, their vasa efferentia may be readily seen (by drawing the glands down, and so render- ing the vessels tense,) to pierce the inner side of the tube, and so render it cribriform. This tube, by a little care, can be insulated from Poupart’s ligament, which lies before it, from the border of Gimbernat’s ligament, which is situ- ated to its inner side, and from the pubic portion of the fascia lata, on which it rests ; and if it, together with the inclosed vessels, be cut across two inches below Poupart’s ligament, they may easily be drawn up towards the abdo- men. These facts bear materially on the anatomy of the parts connected with crural hernia. 337. When the examination has been conducted thus far, the abdomen may be laid open by making an incision from the umbilicus to the anterior superior spine of the ileum on each side, and drawing the whole flap down on the thighs. The intestines should, in the next place, be removed, and the peritonaeum carefully detached from the iliac fossa, and from the inner surface of the flap above described, as well as from the lumbar region. When this has been done, the inner surface of the parietes of the abdomen will be found to be lined throughout its entire extent by a smooth, shining membrane, which appears to be placed there for the purpose of strengthening them where they are most in need of support, and of connecting them together, where, from the fact of its being merely contiguous, they are liable to be separated from each other,