ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 222 Combined Actions.—The peronei are usually said to extend the foot, but their obvious action is to bend the foot upon the leg, so as to make them form a right angle. Extension of any particular part implies that it is brought as nearly as may be into a line with that on which it is moved ; if so, the extensors of the foot must necessarily be placed at its posterior aspect, and are in fact the flexors of the toes, which when they continue their action, con- spire with the tibialis posticus in extending the foot on the leg. The peroneus longus is enabled to evert the sole of the foot, by means of the mechanical advantage which it derives from turning round its external margin. This however is not readily percepti- ble in the natural condition of the limb; but if the fibula be frac- tured, and the check afforded by the external ankle, be in conse- quence diminished, it will take place to a considerable extent. When the peronei take their fixed point below, they act on the bones of the leg, and assist in maintaining them erect on the foot. This power is chiefly called into action when we stand on one leg. The weight of the body must then tend to incline the leg inwards ; but the peroneus longus, acting from its fixed point in the sole of the foot, with the additional power given it by the pulley round which it turns, draws on the external side of the bones of the leg, and prevents them from obeying the influence which otherwise would incline them inwards. Muscles on the posterior part of the Leg. 244. The gastrocnemius, or gemellus (jumeaux, Bichat; bifemoro-calcanien, Chauss., Dumas) is situated on the pos- terior surface of the leg, forming the greater part of what is named the calf. Form—very thick and convex behind, plane in front, divided longitudinally at the upper extremity into two portions or heads, of which the inner is thicker and longer than the other. From their relative situations they are named the outer and inner heads of the muscle. Each arises from the upper and back part of the corre- sponding condyle of the femur ; their fleshy fibres descend converging, and both become gradually united so as to form a thick muscular mass. Below the middle of the leg, the mus-