269 OBTURATOR ARTERY. Both pierce the pelvic fascia, pass through a cellular inter- val between the pubic and ischiatic portions of the obtu- rator muscle, and finally appear at the top of the thigh, after having made their way through the oval aperture in the thyroid or obturator membrane. In this course the nerve lies above the artery, both being placed between the pelvic fascia and peritonaeum, as they run along the inner side of the pelvis. But when it arises from the epigastric artery, it has to pass downwards and inwards into the pel- vis, in order to reach the thyroid foramen ; and in doing so, its course must lie along the margin of the crural ring, and must be placed close to some pai’t of the neck of the her- nial sac, should a portion of intestine be protruded through that aperture. If the obturator artery arises near the ori- gin of the epigastric, or by a short trunk, common to it and that vessel, it will be placed across the external side of the crural ring ; but if it starts from a point higher up, as it has to incline inwai’ds whilst descending into the pelvis, it will be found along the superior and internal border of the ring, and therefore almost surrounding the neck of the sac. This, however, is rather an unusual occurrence; Breschet* appears to have met only a single instance of it. When the obturator artery has reached the thigh, it is supported on the external obturator muscle, and covered by the pecti- neus ; it soon divides into two branches, one external, the other internal, a. The external branch inclines downwards and outwards to the tuber ischii, sending off branches, some for the supply of the obturator and quadratus muscles, whilst one or two, in some instances, reach the notch in the acetabulum, through which they pass, and are distributed to the hip joint, b. The internal branch passes downwards between the adductors, supplies them as well as the pecti- neus and gracilis, and communicates with branches of the internal circumflex artery. * Theses presentees et soutenues publiquement devant les Juges du Concours, Paris, 1819.