ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 492 septum between the parotid and submaxillary glands, and is usually described as the stylo-maxillary ligament. 555. When examined at the lower part of the neck, the fascia will be found strained tightly across from one sterno- mastoid muscle to the other, and thence extended down to the top of the sternum, where it divides into two lamellae, one being continued on its cutaneous, the other on its tho- racic surface, where they are firmly attached. This part of the fascia may be said to complete the wall of the thorax, and to bear off the pressure of the atmosphere from the air- tubes in inspiration. External to the sterno-mastoid, the superficial layer of the fascia passes over the clavicle, and is continued down, becoming thin and cellular on the pec- toral muscle. But the deep-seated lamella, after having sent back a process which forms a sheath for the tendon of the omo-hyoideus, reaches the border of the subclavius, where it divides into two layers, of which one passes before, the other behind that muscle, so as to invest it. At its lower border both these unite again, and become attached to the coracoid process, on the one hand, and the cartilage of the first rib on the other, forming a dense lamella in front of the subclavian vessels, and called the costo-coracoid membrane or ligament. At first sight, it appears to cease at this point by a lunated border, but, on closer inspection, it will be found to be prolonged down over the thorax, becoming thin and cellular as it descends. The dissection of the face may be commenced by making an in- cision from the vertex along the middle line of the forehead and nose, taking care that it barely divides the skin. From this, two lines may be drawn outwards, one over the zigoma to the lobe of the ear, the other over the eyebrow to the side of the head. The interval intercepted between these two parallel lines may be inter- sected, midway between the ear and nose, by a perpendicular line drawn from one to the other. A square piece of skin is thus marked out over the orbicularis muscle, which should be carefully reflected from its borders and angles, and dissected off that muscle,