423 MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. markable of these is the interosseous nerve. This is of considerable size; immediately after its origin it passes backwards to reach the anterior surface of the interosseous ligament, where it comes into contact with the artery of the same name. In this situation the nerve is interposed be- tween the flexor profundus and flexor pollicis longus, and so continues, as far as the upper border of the pronator quadratus muscle. Having passed under cover of the mus- cle just named, to which it gives some small filaments, the nerve turns backwards beneath the lower border of the interosseous ligament, and so gains the dorsal surface of the hand, where it ramifies in several filaments. At the lower part of the fore-arm, another branch is given off, called, from its ultimate destination, the cutaneous palmar branch. This descends between the flexor ten- dons, passes in front of the annular ligament, and palmar fascia, and divides into filaments, which supply the skin at the centre of the palm of the hand. 444. 9. The musculo-spiral nerve (nervus radialis, Soemm.; radio-digital, Chauss.) is, at first, the largest of those that issue from the plexus. Its direction is downwards and outwards, winding in a spiral manner round the bone, whence its name is derived. It lies in the cellular interval, between the short and middle heads of the triceps muscle, accompanied by the superior profunda, or spiral artery. But, in order to reach the external and anterior aspect of the humerus, where it finally appears, the nerve passes be- tween the second head of the muscle, and the bone, lying in a canal formed for it by some tendinous fibres, which arch obliquely over it. The nerve, in the next place lies deeply in the interval between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, which overlap and conceal it, until it reaches the elbow joint. There it divides into two primary branches, one being placed on the anterior and external part of the fore-arm, the other lying deeply at its posterior aspect. The anterior branch resembles the continuation of the