ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 156 rib to the inter-vertebral substance, and dividing the articu- lation into two parts, each lined by a separate synovial membrane. This ligament does not exist in the articula- tion of the first, eleventh, or twelfth ribs, and in conse- quence there is in them but one synovial capsule. 114. The costo-transverse ligaments connect the tubercles of the ribs with the extremities of the transverse processes of the vertebrae. They are divided into a posterior and an an- terior set. 1. The 'posterior costo-transverse ligament (Jig. transversum externum costarum, Weit.) consists of a short thick fasciculus of fibres which passes from the posterior surface of the summit of the transverse process, to the rough unarticulated part of the tubercle of the rib. Those of the superior ribs ascend, those of the inferior descend somewhat. 2. The anterior costo-transverse ligament {Jig. transversum internum costarum, Weit.) is usually divided into two fasciculi of fibres, both nearly in apposition and on the same plane. They pass from the neck of the rib and the border near its tubercle, upwards and backwards to the lower margin of the transverse process next above it. These do not exist in the articulations of the first and last ribs. The articulations between the tubercles of the ribs and the transverse processes are provided with syno- vial capsules. 115. The costo-sternal articulations, situated between the anterior extremities of the cartilages of the ribs and the fossae, in the margins of the sternum, are composed, 1, of an ante- rior set of fibres, thin, scattered, and radiated, passing from the extremity of the cartilage to the anterior surface of the sternum, where they interlace with those of the opposite side, and are blended with the aponeurosis of the pectora- lis major muscle. 2. Of a posterior set of fibres similarly disposed, but not so thick or numerous, connecting the thoracic surfaces of the same parts. 3. Of a synovial mem- brane, interposed between the ends of each true rib and the sternum, and also between the margins of each pair of