PERINiEUM—INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. 551 artery, but occasionally is derived from a trunk common to it and the ischiadic. It inclines downwards and outwards to reach the spine of the ischium, lying- at first on the sacral plexus, but afterwards passes between the pyri- formis and coccygeus muscles, to gain the point just re- ferred to. Having thus passed out of the pelvic cavity, it rests upon the external surface of the spine of the ischium, beneath which it returns into the pelvis again by the lesser sciatic notch, and proceeds towards the inner surface of the tuber ischii. In this situation it lies on the obturator interims muscle, to which it is bound down by the obturator fascia, between which structures it lies, in its course for- wards and upwards, along the rami of the pubis and ischium, towards the pubic arch. On approaching the latter, the artery pierces the fascia, and becomes placed between the crus penis arid the bone, where it divides into its tvyo ulti- mate branches, viz. the dorsalis penis, and the artery of the corpus cavernosum. In this course numerous branches are given off; we may divide them into three sets, viz. the pelvic, the perinaeal, and the terminal. The pelvic branches consist merely of several small ramusculi given to the coccygeus, pyriformis, and obturator muscles, and also some equally unimportant, which pass inwards to the rectum and prostate. The perinaeal branches are the following: 1. Artericp hamorrhoidales externce incline inwards from the pudic artery, when it has reached the tuber ischii, and must ne- cessarily pierce the fascia which binds it down, in order to reach the perinaeum. They lie embedded in a quantity of adipose sub- stance, lodged in the interval between the ischium and the sphinc- ter ani, and soon branch out into ramusculi, which are distributed, to the parts about the margin of the anus. 2. Arteria perincea superficialis pierces the fascia a little higher up than the preceding; and then turns upwards close by, and parallel with, the rami of the ischium and pubis: it crosses over the transversus perimei muscle, and finally lies in the groove