ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 274 the memoir here referred to, proceeds as follows : “ The profunda, which formed the new channel for the blood, was considerably en- larged in diameter, and sent branches larger than usual to the flexor muscles. Just midway on the back part of the thigh, it gave off those branches which became the chief support of the new circulation. The first of the newly established vessels went down to communicate with the superior articular artery, on the inner side of the articulation. Another, guided by the biceps mus- cle, opened into a muscular branch on the gastrocnemius. Be- tween these, a third vessel, passing along in the course of the sciatic nerve, divided into several branches, communicating with the inferior articular vessels, with the origin of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and with some of their muscular branches, in such a way as to form a vascular plexus in the popliteal space. The external circumflex artery was considerably enlarged, and freely supplied the muscles on the fore-part of the thigh. The obturator artery did not appear larger than usual, nor could any enlarged communicating branches be traced between the ischiatic and profunda arteries.”* Section III. THE VEINS AND LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 287. These two orders of vessels may with propriety be included under one head, not only from the resemblance they present in structure and internal conformation, but also from the close relation subsisting between them in their course and distribution. The veins are the tubes which bring back to the heart the residue of blood remaining after the different functions of secretion and nutrition have been performed by the arteries. The effete and altered blood passes from the capillary terminations of the arteries, into the incipient radicles of the veins, which convey it into the larger branches, from which it is forwarded to the trunks that open into the auricles of the heart. The series of tubes, the aggregate of which constitutes the venous system, has been compared to a tree, the trunk being implanted into the * Dissection of an Aneurismal Limb, by Sir Astley Cooper. Med. CAir. Trans., vol. ii.