215 BICEPS FEMORIS. the latter, however, are equalled in strength by their antagonist, the sub-scapularis, but the external rotators of the thigh are very feebly opposed by the tensor vaginae femoris, and the anterior fibres of the gluteus medius which alone act directly in rotating the limb inwards, if we except the semi-tendinosus, which may, under some circumstances, co-operate in this action. If the femur be bent on the pelvis, the line of direction of these muscles, nearly coincides with the axis of the bone ; their power of rotation then ceases, and they become to a certain extent abductors. This is particularly observable in the pyriformis, both from its direction and point of insertion. Muscles on the posterior part of the Thigh. 234. The biceps femoris, (ischio-femoro-peronier, Chauss.; Dumas) is situated at the posterior part of the thigh. Form—elongated, divided above into two portions, or heads, of which one, the ischiatic, is long and round; the other, the femoral, flat, and somewhat shorter. The long head arises by a tendon common to it and the semi-tendi- nosus, from the posterior and outer part of the tuberosity of the ischium, the femoral portion (or short head) from the linea aspera of the femur, as high up as the insertion of the gluteus maximus, between the adductor magnus, and vastus externus muscle. These two parts having united and become tendinous, are inserted into the head of the fibula: the tendon whilst being attached, separates into two portions, which embrace the external lateral ligament of the knee joint. One of these passes forwards upon the ar- ticulation of the fibula with the tibia, from the other an expansion is given off, which strengthens the fascia of the leg. Direction—vertical: relations—posteriorly with the gluteus maximus, and fascia lata, in front with the semi- membranosus muscle, the sciatic nerve, and adductor mag- nus ; inferiorly with the gastrocnemius externus and exter- nal articular arteries. 235. The semi-tendinosus (ischio-pretibial, Chauss.) is situated at the posterior and inner part of the thigh.