PHARYNX. 445 constrictor, and are prolonged by a narrow, pointed process to the basilar process of the occipital bone. 3. The superior constrictor is attached slightly to the side of the tongue, and to the extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge, also to the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and the lower third of the in- ternal pterygoid lamella. From these different points the fibres of the muscle curve backwards, becoming blended with those of the corresponding muscle along the middle line, and are also prolonged by means of the posterior apo- neurosis, to the basilar process of the occipital bone. Thus, by the peculiar mode of attachment of these muscles, the bag of the pharynx is completed on the sides, and poste- riorly, and left open in front; and by the connexion of the upper constrictor with the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and of the latter with the buccinator, a continuous smooth sur- face is established from the commissure of the lips, along the side of the mouth and fauces. Besides these, we find in the pharynx two other pairs of muscular fasciculi, one at each side, derived from the stylo-pharyngeus, which is insinuated between the adjacent borders of the superior and middle constrictor, and which has been already described. The other lies more internally, being the palato-pharyngeus, which shall be described with the muscles of the palate. It may be observed, that as the lateral attachment of the superior constrictor is no higher than to about a third of the internal ptei’ygoid plate, whilst the insertion is into the basilar process, the fibres of the muscle, as they pass between these points, leave a small interval, in which the mucous membrane is uncovered. The arteries of the pharynx are the pharyngea ascen- dens and descendens; its nerves are derived from the pha- ryngeal plexus, lying on its posterior surface, and from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve; its veins open into the internal jugular, or thyroid veins. Actions.—The pharynx is drawn up when deglutition is about to