ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 502 Organs of Digestion. 558. The stomach (ventriculus) is a hollow, musculo- membranous viscus, occupying part of the left hypochon- driac and epigastric regions. Its form is somewhat conical, being also curved, so as to incline downwards and forwards. It is in intimate relation with many important organs; it lies beneath the diaphragm and liver, above the transverse colon, having the spleen on its left, and the duodenum on its right, whilst its anterior surface is in contact with the wall of the abdomen, and the posterior rests on the pan- creas and great vessels. It is usual to consider successively its surfaces, borders, and extremities. When empty, one surface looks forwards, and the other backwards; but when distended, its body changes its position, so that the former is inclined upwards, the latter obliquely downwards, by which means the great curvature comes towards the an- terior parietes of the abdomen, whilst the lesser looks towards the spine and large vessels. The lower border of the stomach is of considerable extent, and is named its greater curvature; opposite the spleen it expands very much, bulging out into a sort of diverticulum. The latter part gives attachment to a fold of peritonaeum, connecting the stomach to the spleen, the rest to the great omentum, and corresponds with the gastro-epiploic vessels. The upper border is concave, and forms the lesser curvature, which extends from the oesophagus to the pylorus, being not more than three inches in length; it is connected by the lesser omentum to the inferior surface of the liver, the coronary artery being parallel with it. The left, or car- diac orifice, is placed at the termination of the oesophagus, which appears as if inserted into the stomach, so that two thirds of that organ he to its right, and one third to its left; it is surrounded by the branches of the coronary artery. The right, ox pyloric extremity, is elongated so as to repre- sent the summit of the cone to which the stomach has been