THE EYE—LACHRYMAL SACK. (>83 unequal size, each being made up of a number of granules, connected together by a delicate cellular investment. From the granules minute ducts arise and issue from the anterior edge of the gland, from which they descend along the conjunctiva, usually seven in number, and open about two or three lines above the convex edge of the tarsal car- tilage, at its temporal side. 723. The caruncula lachrymalis is a small reddish body placed at the inner angle of the eye-lids, and inclosed be- tween the surface of the globe of the eye and the con- junctiva, which is reflected over it. Its external margin corresponds with the interval between the puncta lachry- malia: it consists of minute follicles, united by cellular tissue, and when attentively examined will be found studded with some fine hairs. Where the external margin of the caruncula is in apposition with each lid_, a minute foramen will be observed (punclum lachrymale.) The puncta are situated where the curved and straight parts of the lids meet; they form the openings of two canals (lachrymal ducts) which lead into the sack, or reservoir, for the reception of the tears. The superior canal is longer than the other: if a thin bristle be passed into it, it will be found first to ascend a little, and then to turn obliquely downwards and inwards. The inferior one descends a little, and then turns inwards with a very slight ascent: both open into the external and anterior side of the lachrymal, generally by two distinct orifices, which are close together, sometimes by a common duct. 724. The lachrymal sack is a membranous reservoir placed in a groove formed for it in the unguis and su- perior maxillary bones, at the inner canthus of the eye. Its form is oval, terminating superiorly in a cul-de-sac, but inferiorly it is prolonged into a tube, and at its superior and external side receives the lachrymal ducts. The sack is crossed by the tendon of the orbicular muscle, being at the same time covered by its fibres as well as by