LUMBAR PLEXUS—ITS BRANCHES—DISSECTION. 303 moved, the anterior crural nerve will be observed close by the border of the psoas muscle, and the other branches of the lumbar plexus lying in the iliac fossa. If the muscle just named be turned inwards, and cautiously detached by proceeding from be- low upwards, the branches forming the plexus will be found be- neath it. The general principle may then be acted on of proceed- ing from trunk to branch, and so the nerves thus exposed may be traced throughout their course. But, if the abdomen be not opened, we may proceed to dissect the nerves on the fore-part of the thigh in the following way : draw the edge of the scalpel lightly along the external border of the sartorius from its origin to where it crosses the adductor longus. Dissect the fascia off the muscle in the course of its fibres. Proceed in the same way with regard to the adductor longus. By this means a triangular space will be marked out, of which these muscles form the sides, and Poupart’s ligament the base, and in the area of which lie the femoral vessels and the crural nerve. Through the centre and apex of this space runs the femoral artery, the vein being close on its inner side, the nerve about a finger’s breadth to the outside. The fascia may be removed by making an incision through it, where it is attached to Poupart’s ligament, and reflecting it in- wards. The branches of the nerves will now be observed pro- ceeding for the most part downwards and outwards. But their dissection must be conducted slowly, as they are embedded in a quantity of cellular tissue, and blended with the numerous arterial and venous ramifications found in this situation. It may be found useful to divide the sartorius in the middle, and to reflect it, end probably also to cut across the rectus at its origin, and draw it outwards. As the obturator nerve, at its exit from the pelvis, is concealed by the pectineus, it becomes necessary to cut through the origin of that muscle, and reflect it outwards, before the nerve can be seen; after which, in order to trace its branches, the ad- ductor brevis must be divided and reflected in the same way.