509 THE SPLEEN. appearance. The inner surface of the large intestine presents three prominent lines and sacculi, corresponding with those seen on the exterior, and at the junction of the ileum, with the ccecum, a valve, which deserves particular notice. When the large in- testine is laid open along the right side, particularly if it has been partially dried, a narrow aperture, of an elliptic form, will be ob- served leading from the ileum, its greatest diameter being trans- verse. This narrowing of the canal is caused by two lunated folds projecting into its interior, forming a valve, (valvula coli; v. i/eo- colica; v. Bauliini). The lower fold is the larger of the two; its convex border is attached to the line of union of the ileum with the ccecum, that of the upper or smaller fold corresponds with its junction with the colon ; whilst the straight margins of both pro- ject inwards, and are in apposition one with the other. Each of these is made up of the mucous membrane, the sub mucous cel- lular tissue, and the circular fibres of the ileum and large intestine projected into the interior of the canal, whilst the longitudinal fibres and serous coat are continued uninterruptedly from one to the other. If the two latter be divided all round externally at the angle of union, and the ileum drawn outwards, the valve will be effaced, and present a rounded or funnel-shaped opening. The intestinal canal is supplied with blood from different sources. The duodenum receives branches from the pancreatico- duodenalis, the pyloric, and the superior mesenteric arteries. The jejunum and ileum are supplied from the ramifications that issue from the convex side of the great mesenteric artery—the colon from those that come from the concavity of its arch, and from the inferior mesenteric ; and the rectum from the latter and the haemorrhoidal branches. The veins all converge to form the vena portae. The nerves are derived from the mesenteric plexus. 567. The spleen (lien) is a soft, spongy, and exceed- ingly vascular organ, placed in the left hypochondriac re- gion, between the diaphragm and the stomach, and be- neath the cartilages of the ribs. Its colour is deeply red, with a tinge of blue particularly round its margin. Its form is somewhat oval, being smooth and convex on the exterior, where it is in apposition with the diaphragm, and irregularly concave on the opposite side, which is divided