589 VENA AZYGOS—THORACIC DCCT. between the cartilages of the two first ribs. Each vena inno- minata results from the union of the subclavian and inter- nal jugular veins, behind the sterno-clavicular articulation. That of the right side is short and perpendicular in its di- rection, the left runs obliquely, and both join at the point above indicated. Thus the superior cava returns the blood from both sides of the head, and from the upper ex- tremities. After entering the pericardium, it lies on the right side of the aorta, until it opens into the right auricle. 638. The verm azygos forms a connexion between the venae cavae ; it issues either from the inferior cava, where it turns forwards to reach the opening in the diaphragm, or from one of the lumbar veins ; sometimes from the renal. This vein enters the thorax through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, and runs upon the bodies of the vertebrae, until it arrives opposite the root of the right lung, round which it turns, forming an arch, whose concavity looks downwards. Its termination opens into the superior cava, where it becomes invested by the pericardium. In this course the azygos vein receives those from the intercostal spaces, and also a small vein called azygos minor. This commences from the left renal vein, or from one of the lumbar veins, and having entered the thorax with the aorta, or through the crus of the diaphragm, runs on the spine, and opens into the preceding, opposite the fifth or sixth dorsal vertebra. 639. The thoracic duct commences opposite the second or third lumbar vertebra by a slight ampulla (receptaculum cliyli.) To this point converge three or four lymphatic vessels, formed by the union of those of the lower extre- mities with the lacteals that ascend from the intestines. The duct enters the thorax through the aortic opening, and lies between the aorta and vena azygos. In its ascent it passes behind the arch of the aorta, and then between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, so as to reach the neck, where it makes a turn downwards and forwards, to