COLLATERAL CIRCULATION. 273 their natural course. But after a while they become filled again, and circulate blood, though in a direction exactly opposite to that in which it had previously flowed in them. The capillary termina- tions of the circumflex arteries receive from those of the gluteal, sciatic, and obturator, the increased current, which is thrown upon them, and convey it thus into the femoral artery below the tu- mour, for which the operation was performed; and so, in the new order of things, the blood flows from branch to trunk, conducted through the devious route of the collateral vessels, and maintain- ing the vitality of the limb by what is termed the collateral circu- lation. The anterior and lateral parts of the abdominal parietes, it will be recollected, are supplied by the epigastric and circumflexa ilei arteries. When the regular source of their supply is cut off by the obstruction in the iliac artery, gangrene would speedily super- vene, if the circulation were not restored from some other quarter. A recurrence to the anastomoses of these vessels at once reminds us, that the circumflexa ilei artery communicates with the epigastric on the one hand, and the ileo-lumbar on the other, and forms a ready medium of communication between them, when the latter, after the application of the ligature, receives part of the increased current propelled into the internal iliac artery, from which it ari- ses. We need not extend these remarks farther for the present. The anastomoses round the knee and ankle must be sufficiently obvious, from what has been already stated. As, however, the subject is one, not only of deep interest, but of great consequence in a practical point of view, we can scarcely refrain from raising this question, what is the condition of the vessels of a limb v'hich has been the subject of an operation for aneurism? we reply in the words of an eminent authority. “ In twelve or fourteen months after a ligature has been applied on the femoral artery, it becomes completely obliterated, as far up as the profunda, and down to the origin of the anterior tibial artery, the remnant of the vessel being a mere cord. The circumflex vessels become en- larged, and convey blood to the rectus, sartorius, and vasti, which had previously been supplied by the femoral. The articular arte- ries round the knee are also enlarged and tortuous; they receive blood, not from the popliteal, but from the communicating vessels of the profunda.” After some general remarks on the effect of li- gatures, the description of the limb, which formed the subject of