ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 438 it. It arises from the middle of the external surface of the styloid process of the temporal bone, from which it inclines downwards and forwards, to be inserted into the great cornu of the os hyoides, near its body. Its fibres are divided into two fasciculi near its insertion, for the trans- mission of the tendon of the digastricus. Its upper part lies deeply, being covered by the sterno-mastoid and digas- tricus muscles, and by part of the parotid gland ; the middle crosses the carotid arteries ; the insertion is comparatively superficial. 458. The stylo-glossas lies higher up, and is also shorter than any of the three muscles that arise from the styloid process. Its direction is horizontally forwards between the carotid arteries. It arises from the styloid process near its point, also from the stylo-maxillary ligament, and is in- serted into the side of the tongue, its fibres expanding somewhat as they become blended with its substance. 459. The stylo-pharyngeus is larger and longer than the other styloid muscles, and also more deeply seated. It arises from the inner surface of the styloid process, near its root, from which it proceeds, downwards and inwards, to the side of the pharynx, where it passes under cover of the middle constrictor muscle, with which its fibres contract some connexion, but are finally prolonged to the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage, into which they are inserted. The external surface of the muscle is, in the upper part of its extent, in contact with the other styloid muscles, in the lower with the middle constrictor of the pharynx; the in- ternal rests on the internal carotid artery and jugular vein ; but, in the lower part of its extent, it is in contact with the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Actions.—The stylo-hyoidei and stylo-pharyngei conspire in elevating the base of the tongue and the bag of the pharynx at the moment when deglutition is taking place, the latter tending at the same time to widen the pharynx. The peculiar mechanism of the digastric muscles enables them to contribute to the eleva-