296 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. preceding branch, divides into two parts to supply the ex- ternal border of the second toe, and the adjacent one of the third; d, the fourth ramusculus follows a similar course and distribution with regard to the third metatarsal space, and the digital phalanges of the third and fourth toes; it also joins with, or receives a filament from the superficial branch of the external plantar nerve. 2. The external plantar nerve proceeds forwards and outwards, lying between the flexor accessorius and flexor brevis digitorum. In this course it gives a branch which passes to the external border of the foot, and is distributed to the abductor minimi digiti, after which it divides into two branches, one being intended to complete the digital branches of the toes, the other to supply the deep-seated muscles in the sole of the foot. a. The first of these, on reaching the extremity of the fifth metatarsal hone, sends along the outer border of the foot, and of the little toe, a collateral branch, similar to that which is given to the great toe by the internal plantar nerve. The continuation of the branch may be observed to correspond with the fourth me- tatarsal space, where it communicates by an oblique fila- ment with the internal plantar nerve; after which it pro- ceeds to the heads of the metatarsal bones, and divides into branches, which supply the external border of the fourth toe, and the adjacent one of the fifth; b, the deep branch sends outwards a filament to the flexor of the little toe, and then proceeds almost directly forwards into the sole of the foot, where it divides into branches, which supply the abductor pollicis, the interossei, and transversus pedis muscles. 317. The external division of the great sciatic nerve (nervus peroneus, Soemm.; branche peroniere du grand femoro-poplite, Chauss.) inclines outwards as it descends from the point of division towards the external condyle of the femur, to which it is guided by the border of the bi- ceps muscle. It then proceeds obliquely forwards, lying