ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 84 small concave articular surfaces separated by a prominent line, by which means they are adapted to the inequalities observed on the contiguous extremities of the first phalan- ges. The surfaces of the anterior extremities are nearly similar; they articulate with the third phalanges. The third set are somewhat conical in their figure, the posterior extremities, or base, being hollow, for their arti- culations with the ends of the second phalanges, whilst the anterior is rough and scabrous. Attachments of Muscles. 1. To the tarsal bones. The os calcis gives insertion by the tendo Achillis to the gastrocnemius, the soleus, and to the plantaris; and origin to the flexor brevis digitorum, flexor accessorius, to part of the abductor pollicis, flexor brevis pollicis, and abductor minimi digiti; and by its superior surface to part of the extensor brevis digitorum: the os naviculare gives insertion to part of the tibialis posti- cus ; the os cuboides to part of the adductor pollicis: the first cuneiform bone to the short head of the flexor brevis pol- licis, to part of the tibialis anticus and posticus ; the third to part of the flexor brevis pollicis. 2. To the metatarsal bones. The first gives attachment to the prolonged tendon of the peroneus longus, to the trans- versalis pedis, and the first dorsal interosseous: the second to two interossei: the third to part of the adductor pollicis, to three interossei, and part of the transversalis pedis: the fourth to three interossei also : the fifth to the peroneus bre- vis and tertius, the transversalis pedis, part of the flexor bre- vis, minimi digiti, and to the fourth dorsal interosseous. 3. To the bones of the toes. The first phalanx of the great toe gives insertion to the abductor, flexor brevis, and adduc- tor pollicis, and to the transversalis pedis: the second pha- lanx to the extensor proprius pollicis and flexor pollicis lon- gus : the second phalanges of the other toes receive the in- sertion of the tendons of the flexor sublimis; and the third those of the flexor profundus.