G49 CEREBRAL NERVES—FIFTH PAIR. fifth, is intermediate in size, as well as in direction and situation, between the ophthalmic and inferior maxillary nerves. It passes forwards, and leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, after which it crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the infra- orbital canal, through which it is conducted beneath the floor of the orbit, and finally ramifies on the cheek and side of the face. Whilst passing across the fossa, it receives two branches of com- munication, sent upwards to it from Meckel’s ganglion; and when arrived in its osseous canal, it sends upwards into the orbit a branch (orbital, nervus subcutaneus mala) which passes forwards, and anastomoses with the lachrymal nerve, sending at the same time some twigs to the lachrymal gland, and finally, some of them are continued along the outer margin of the orbit, to be distributed to the orbicular muscle and the integument. The posterior dental branches, three or four in number, descend upon the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and enter the foramina observable on its surface: through these the filaments descend to the alveoli of the molar teeth, in the pulp of which they ramify: one filament will be observed to run along the alveolar border of the superior maxilla, supplying the gums. Before it emerges, the superior maxillary nerve sends downwards a branch (anterior dental) which divides into three or four filaments, for the supply of the bicuspid, canine, and incisor teeth. At its exit from the infra- orbital foramen, the nerve is concealed by the orbicularis and levator labii superioris muscles, where it divides into a number of branches, some of which incline inwards on the nose, and com- municate with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, others pass downwards upon the cheek and upper lip, and a third set incline outwards, somewhat forming a complete mesh, by their interlacement with the branches of the portio dura. 684. 3. The inferior maxillary nerve, the largest of the branches of the fifth, is made up, as has been said, of two por- tions. A few lines beneath the base of the skull, this nerve divides into two primary branches. One of these, which lies superior to the other, and also is smaller than it, soon subdivides into five offsets, which are distributed to the deep-seated muscles. The deep temporal branches, two in number, incline outwards, and be- come applied to the surface of the temporal muscle, to which most