330 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. and so leave spaces into which the intestines may he pro- truded. This membrane, on a first inspection, would ap- pear to form a cul-de-sac, its closed extremity being placed at the lower part of the cavity,—one side of it being pro- longed upwards behind the transversalis muscle, the other backwards upon the iliacus, the juncture or seam marking the union of the two being at Poupart’s ligament. How- ever, when examined with attention, it will be found not to form a complete shut sack at the lower part of the abdo- men, for a prolongation of a tubular form descends from it, round the femoral vessels, so as to become continuous with the sheath that invests them in the rest of their extent. Again, where the spermatic vessels pass from the abdomen into the inguinal canal, they also receive a tubular invest- ment, which accompanies them. Both these, it will be recollected, have been brought into view during the pro- gress of the dissection of the external parts already di- rected. The membranous lining is not usually described in this way as a continuous whole. Its different parts are examined separately and with much detail, so that students are apt to regard them as distinct structures, and probably intended for different purposes, more especially as each has been designated by a particular name. For instance, all that part of the membrane which lies above Poupart’s ligament, and lines the transversalis muscle, has been from that circumstance named the fascia transversalis. The posterior part which rests on the iliacus muscle has been, doubtless for a similar reason, called the fascia iliaca ; and where the membrane is prolonged over the margin of the pelvis, it receives the name of fascia pelvica. Finally, where it becomes reflected upon the sides of the rectum and bladder, some have gone so far as to call it the vesical fascia. These, it may be observed, are anatomical or to- pographical names taken from the situation of the different parts of the membrane. There are others, however, which have a surgical origin, (if such an expression be allowable)