ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 132 cartilage of the ear, and bounded, internally, by the membrana tympani, is directed, obliquely, forwards and inwards, and is somewhat broader at its extremities than in the middle. Anterior to the meatus is the glenoid fossa, which is bounded before by the transverse root of the zigoma, behind by the meatus, and inter- nally by the spinous process of the sphenoid bone. It is divided into two parts by a transverse fissure, (Jissura Glnsseri) the anterior portion being smooth, for its articulation with the condyle of the lower jaw ; the posterior, rough, lodges part of the parotid gland. This fissure gives entrance to the laxator tympani muscle, and transmits outwards the chorda tympani nerve. The zigomatic region, situated behind and beneath the orbit, is bounded before by the convex part of the superior maxillary bone, and is inclosed between the zigoma and the pterygoid process. The posterior surface of the maxillary bone is pierced by some small foramina, opening into canals, for the transmission of the dental nerves. Between the superior border of this bone, and the great ala of the sphenoid, is a fissure (spheno-maxillary,) which is directed forwards and outwards, and communicates with the orbit; and between its posterior border and the pterygoid process is an- other, (pterygo-maxillary) whose direction is vertical. The angle formed by the union of these fissures constitutes the spheno-maxil- lary fossa, which is situated before the base of tbe pterygoid pro- cess, behind the summit, or posterior termination, of the orbit, and immediately external to the nasal fossae, from which it is separated by the perpendicular plate of the palate bone. Into this narrow' spot five foramina open, viz. the foramen rotundum, which gives passage to the second branch of the fifth pair; the foramen ptery- goideum, to the vidian or pterygoid nerve and artery ; the pterygo- palatine, to a small artery of the same name, (sometimes called also the superior pharyngeal); the posterior palatine foramen leading to the canal of the same name, and the spheno-palatine, which transmits the arteria nasalis and spheno-palatine nerve. The internal surface of the skull may be divided into its arch and its base. The arch extends from the base of the perpendicu- lar part of the frontal bone, as far as the internal occipital ridge. Along the middle line, and corresponding with the direction of the sagittal suture, is a shallow groove, marking the course of the su- perior longitudinal sinus. Several slight irregular depressions