101 THE BONES OF THE FINGERS. radial side, two surfaces, and, on the ulnar side, one, for articulation with the corresponding surfaces of the bones on each side; on the fifth, a concave surface, directed out- wards, corresponding with the os unciforme; and, on the radial side, a surface for the fourth metacarpal bone. The anterior, or digital extremities of all are convex, articulated with the phalanges, the smooth surfaces extending farther on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect of the bones. The Bones of the Fingers. 73. These are fourteen in number, each, with the excep- tion of the thumb, having three separate pieces, (phalanges, internodia). Of these the first is longer than the second, and the second than the third. Like other long bones, each is divided into a body, a base, and a head. Winslow, and some other anatomists, reckon three phalanges in the thumb, as they conceive that its posterior, or most moveable bone, resembles the first phalanges of the fingers, rather than the metacarpal bones. But if its conformation be ex- amined with attention, more especially that of its anterior extremity, and also its mode of articulation with the bone in front of it, its analogy with the metacarpal range will ap- pear more striking than with the first digital phalanges; and so it is considered by Meckel, Portal, Hip. and J. Clo- quet. The bodies of the first phalanx are convex on tne dorsal surface; flat, from side to side, on the palmar, but arched from before backwards; the latter is bounded by two sharp margins, which give insertion to the fibrous sheaths of the flexor tendons. The larger, or posterior extremities present an oval smooth surface, whose greatest diameter is from side to side, intended to receive the con- vex heads of the corresponding metacarpal bones. The anterior extremities, smaller than the other, end in two small lateral condyles, with a slight groove between them, both being adapted to the base of the contiguous bones, so as to form ginglimus, or hinge-joints. The articular sur-