(MO ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. cautiously dividing the fibres of the corpus callosum, and pushing them aside. A thin membranous lamella will be thus exposed, which, though diaphanous, is sufficiently firm to confine air or fluid passed into the ventricle. There are then two entering layers, one along the roof, the other on the floor of the ventricle, and a returning or tubular process continued back from these, and terminating as above stated. Their arrangement appears to be as follows : the arachnoid membrane, after investing the surface of the corpus callosum as far as its posterior border, turns beneath it, passing through the foramen of Bichat. After lining the under surface of the fornix, it is reflected over its borders to the septum lucidum, upon which it is prolonged to the roof of the ventricles, and so to their outer margins. In this way it may be traced into the posterior and descending cornua as far as the points at which the plexus choroides of each side enters, on the upper surface of which it is reflected, to form the commencement of the velum in- terpositum. Now the part of the membrane that covers the tubercula quadrigemina, on reaching the interior of the ventricle, sends in the middle line a process into the third ventricle, and moreover gives off a cul-de-sac, which is prolonged into the fourth, lining its walls and closing its cavity interiorly. On each side the membrane extends along the floor of the ventricles to their outer margins, where it is continuous with the part already traced to these points. It is similarly disposed of in the floor of the posterior and descending cornua, and on reaching the fissures which admit the plexus choroides at each side, it is reflected on the under surface of the latter; the part that lined the roof having been reflected on their upper surface, so that they are inclosed between two lamellae of the serous membrane, in their entire extent, from the lateral fissures to the foramen Monroi. These lamellae, from being stretched from side to side, between the fornix and third ventricle, constitute what is called velum inter- positum: posteriorly, the velum is narrowed to a funnel-shaped process, which makes its exit through the fissure of Bich&t, and on reaching the point at which the falx spreads into the ten- torium, becomes continuous with the part of the membrane which lines those processes.