MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER THEIR ACTIONS. 377 merus, to make it glide upon the surface of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and then, by continuing the effort, to raise the limb directly upwards, so as to bring it to the vertical position. Its only assistant in elevating the arm is the supra-spinatus, whose power in this respect must be very trivial, as it is inserted so near the centre of motion. The supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor, are the external rotators of the arm, whilst the sub-scapularis rotates it inwards; for, as they are opposed in situation, so they are anta- gonists in action. The power of these muscles is increased in no small degree, by passing over the globular head of the humerus, and also by being inserted into the prominent processes of bone which remove the line of their direction to a distance from the axis of the humerus. The teres major conspires with the latissi- mus dorsi in its actions ; it depresses the arm, if raised, and ro- tates it on its axis. If the arm be fixed, as when, in the reclining posture, the elbow is removed from the side, these muscles, parti- cularly the teres major, assisted by the long head of the triceps, can approximate the lower border of the scapula to the shaft of the humerus, thus conspiring w;ith other muscles, viz., the pectoralis and latissimus dorsi, to trail the body after the outstretched limb. This power of moving the scapula on the humerus affords no . inconsiderable security against the occurrence of dislocations. Accidents of this sort would take place even more frequently than they do, in consequence of the great mobility of the joint, and the total absence of any mechanical contrivance to keep the bones in con- tact, but that the rotator muscles, by their intimate connexion with the capsular ligament of the joint, as well as by their own contraction, tend to retain the head of the humerus in its natural situation. But all this would not suffice during very extensive movements of the limb, were not the scapula also moveable. When the arm is raised into the perpendicular position, the infe- rior angle of the scapula is instantly drawn forwards, so that the glenoid cavity is made to look upwards, and thereby kept in the same relative position with the head of the humerus. Were it not for this process of adaptation, the head of the bone would rest against the lower part of the capsular ligament, where it is altoge- ther unsupported, and would, therefore, very easily be made to slide off the articular surface of the scapula, and be luxated.