362 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. which the succeeding parts of the multifidus act on the spines throughout the entire length of the column, so that a succession of efforts is propagated from below upwards by a sort of vermi- cular motion. When by such an arrangement the action of one set of fibres succeeds that of another, each will have its alterna- tions of contraction and relaxation, as well as the fibres of those muscles in which the change is more perceptible. The sacro- lumbalis can draw down the lower ribs; and if the efforts be con- tinued, this influence must speedily be propagated to the spinal column, which is thus bent towards the side by means of the in- timate connexion between the heads of the ribs and the vertebrae. The longissimus dorsi conspires to produce the same effect. The spine admits, to a certain extent, of a rotatory movement. Thus the head may be carried round by a horizontal motion, until the chin comes nearly on a line with the point of the shoulder, after which the spine may be made to turn on its own axis, until the face shall have completed almost a semi-circle, from the point at which its first movement began. This is effected by that peculiar action of the multifidus spinae above alluded to; but it is the muscle of the opposite side from that towards which the movement takes place, that produces the rotation, assisted by the obliquus externus abdominis. The influence of the sacro-lumbalis in depressing the lower ribs must be evident from its mode of attachment to them. But its accessory muscle (cervicalis ascendens) by taking its fixed point at the cervical vertebrae, is enabled to draw up, and therefore ele- vate the ribs into which it is inserted. On re-considering the remarks made on the actions of the latis- simus dorsi and trapezius, more particularly the influence they exert, under certain circumstances, in rectifying lateral inclinations of the body, it appears advisable to guard the reader against an erroneous application that may be made of them in the manage- ment of curvatures of the spine arising from disease. Curvature of the spine may follow as a consequence of a pathological condi- tion, 1, of the lung, or its investing membrane ; 2, of the osseous parts of the spinal column, or their ligamentous connexions ; 3, of debility and atrophy of the muscles. In the first case, the altera- tion in the spine arises from a change in the position of the ribs at one side, inducing a flatness of the chest, and a diminution of its