186 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the first, the scaphoid, cuboid, and three cuneiform bones the second. 188. The astragalus is connected to the os calcis by three ligaments; the chief of which is situated between the bones, and unites them somewhat after the manner that bivalve shells are connected by their muscle. This is termed the interosseous ligament; its breadth from side to side is more than an inch ; the fibres of which it is composed pass perpendicularly between the bones, one extremity being fixed to the groove between the articulating surfaces of the calcaneum, the other to a corresponding depression in the astragalus. The 'posterior ligament connects the posterior border of the astragalus with the upper surface of the calcaneum; its fibres are oblique, its length and breadth not more than three or four lines. The external ligament is a slight fasciculus which descends perpendicularly from the under surface of the astragalus to the external side of the calcaneum; its direction is parallel with the external lateral ligament of the ankle joint. It may be further ob- served, that as the astragalus is wedged in between the malleoli, and as the lateral ligaments pass downwards from these to the os calcis, they must contribute materially to retain the astragalus in its proper position with regard to the latter bone. 189. The articulation of the calcaneum with the scaphoid bone is effected by means of two ligaments, their surfaces not being in contract. Of these ligaments the inferior one, (ligamentum calcaneo-scaphoideum inferius, Meckel) much the largest, passes forwards and inwards from the extremity of the calcaneum to the inferior surface of the scaphoid; its fibres are flat and horizontal, and in contact inferiorly with the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle, superiorly they form part of the fossa which receives the head of the astragalus. The external ligament {Jig. calcaneo-scaphoi- deum externum) forms the external boundary of the cavity just mentioned; its fibres, very short, are directed from