ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 564 of calculi. Chemical solvents were some time since proposed with the same laudable intention, but they were tried and found ineffectual. Mechanical trituration forms the basis of the new method, its object being to reduce the calculus to powder, or to fragments sufficiently small to admit of their being drifted out of the bladder by the stream of the urine. The instrument used for this purpose is a straight tube, resembling a large-sized catheter, and so contrived as to carry within it a rod, the extremity of which is so constructed that it will bore through the calculus when made to act upon it. The corresponding extremity of the tube is also arranged so that, on reaching the bladder, it can be made to divide into prongs, within which the stone is seized, and secured whilst its trituration is being effected. When the instru- ment is introduced into the bladder, and the stone found and seized (which is not so easily done as may be imagined), the-end of the rod is made to act on it on the principle of a drill, so as to bore it through. In the instrument first employed, the rod was turned by a handle attached to its external end, resembling some- what that of a small windlass. This must have caused a consi- derable degree of lateral motion during the operation, and no little pain and irritation in the urethra and neck of the bladder; and accordingly we find, that an attempt was made to diminish it, for the operator hit on the plan of attaching a small wheel to the end of the rod, and working it rvith a bow-string, such as mechanics use when drilling holes. This, no doubt, lessens the motion, but does not prevent it altogether, as must be evident to any one who considers the circumstances in which the instrument is placed. One end of it, with the stone therein grasped, is loose and unsup- ported in the bladder; and let the bow be used ever so adroitly, the tube must jar against the urethra and neck of the bladder, causing thereby pain and irritation. When the stone is perforated, it must be let go, with a view to its being caught up in another po- sition, and bored in a different direction, and so the process must be repeated until it is sufficiently perforated to admit of its being crushed by means of the prongs of the tube, which are pressed by the action of a screw upon it. The process then must be slow and painful, so that it can seldom, if ever, be done on one occa- sion, and therefore becomes the business of two or even three opera-