201 VASTUS INTERNUS—CRUREUS. of the femur. Form—elongated, broader below than above. It arises from the inner side of the common tendon, from which its fibres, like those of the preceding muscle, pass obliquely to their insertion; the inferior fibres terminate above the middle of the oblique line, leading from the inner condyle to the linea aspera; those higher up are implanted into the inner margin of the linea aspera itself, the rest being inserted into the surface of the bone, as far as the base of the lesser trochanter. Direction—the lower fibres run almost transversely; the rest obliquely, upwards and inwards: structure—aponeurotic and fleshy: relations— by its anterior and inner surface, with the fascia lata, the sartorius, and femoral vessels; the posterior surface rests on the femur; the inner border is in contact with the ad- ductor magnus, longus, pectineus, and psoas muscles, the external is blended with the crureus. 216. 3. The crureus is situated on the anterior surface of the femur, between the two vasti, with which it is inti- mately blended. It arises from the centre of the common tendon, which is prolonged for some way upon its fore- part ; its fleshy fibres are inserted into the upper three- fourths of the anterior surface of the femur, ceasing at the anterior inter-trochanteric line. Direction—vertical: struc- ture—tendinous and fleshy : relations—its anterior surface is covered by the rectus, the posterior rests on the femur, its two borders being blended with the vasti. Combined Actions.-—The rectus, vasti, and crureus, are named by Soemmering quadriceps extensor, their intimate union and si- milarity of action being sufficient reasons for considering them as a single muscle, consisting of four parts. The most ordinary ac- tion of these muscles is to extend the leg upon the thigh, which they are enabled to do by their connexion with the patella and its ligament, the latter being inserted into the tibia. The leg, however, may be somewhat bent upon the thigh, and drawn a little inwards towards the opposite limb, by the sartorius. If the leg be fixed, as in the standing posture, the extensor muscles