816 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. brevis digitorum from the long flexors, and bearing the same relation to the latter that the deep fascia of the leg does in the rest of their extent. If the middle, c ■ broader portion of the fascia be divided by an incision carried from behind forwards, and the two parts reflected to each side off the flexor brevis, the septa will be observed passing up- wards ; and, if that muscle be drawn aside, the deep fascia will come into view. It may be proper to observe, that the plantar fascia is usually said to consist of three portions, the lamella that covers the great toe being considered as one. But this will be found, if examined in the way al- ready pointed out, to be a prolongation from the fascia on the dorsum of the foot, to which its structure is strictly analogous, and, therefore, altogether different from that of the plantar fascia. The Membranes of the Abdominal Parietes. 328. The muscular parietes of the abdomen, it will be recollected, consist of three lamellae, made up of fibres placed one over the other. The arrangement of these fibres, in the greater part of their extent, is well calculated to support the viscera, and prevent their protrusion. The external set incline downwards and inwards; those subja- cent to them run in the opposite direction, whilst the inter- nal ones take a transverse course, so that they afford to each other a mutual support. But this arrangement does not obtain throughout the entire extent of these muscles. In the lower part of the abdomen the fibres of the mus- cles are quite differently disposed; they all incline down- wards and inwards, and thus lose the advantage obtained by the arrangement above noticed. The fibres also of the two inner muscles, in this part, are thin and pale, and, moreover, an interval is left beneath their lower border for the passage of the spermatic cord of the male, and round ligament of the female. In the external muscle also, an aperture is formed for the transmission of the same parts.