PERINEUM—LITHOTOMY. 559 will be difficult to come to any other conclusion than this,—that its only effect is an injurious one ; for, to use a homely phrase, it but gives the point of the instrument an opportunity of going astray. Having noticed the boundaries of the perinaeum, considered as a surgical region, and having enumerated the different structures included within it, as well as their mutual relations, we may now observe, that narrow as that space is, there is scarcely a direction possible to be conceived in which it has not been traversed by incisions made to open a way through it to the bladder for the ex- traction of calculi. Taking these different modes of proceeding- in their historical order, the first we find recorded is that of Celsus*, which furnishes a striking proof of the imperfection of surgical apparatus at the time in which he wrote. The patient was placed in the lap of an assistant, who was required to keep his legs beut so as to expose the perinaeum. If the patient was large, or very robust, two assistants were strapped together by the thighs, and each held the leg next to him, whilst the body was supported between them. The surgeon passed the index and middle fingers of his left hand into the rectum, with a view to press against the stone and force it forwards into the neck of the bladder, making it thereby prominent in the perinasum. This being done, he made a lunated incision about midway between the margin of the anus and the bulb of the urethra, the concavity of the curve looking down to the former, its extremities being directed towards the ischia—“ cornibus ad isohia spectantibus.” In this way he cut down upon the stone, and sought to push it through the wound; but if that did not succeed he used a hook to assist in its extraction. This mode of operation was subse- quently called “ cutting on the gripe and from the fewness of the instruments required for its performance, it was described as the apparatus minor, to distinguish it from another in which several were employed. The parts divided in the incisions were —the skin and superficial fascia, part of the fibres of the accele- rator muscles, and the transverse muscles; finally, the prostatic part of the urethra, the lower half of which was thrown down in the form of a flap. It is not at all uulikely that the urethra was * Lib. 7. cap. 26.