ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 27 6 different organs of the body, as well as in their remote or peripheral extremities. These, in the first instance, are so minute as to elude vision, but they gradually increase in size and diminish in number, forming successively vessels larger and larger, until finally all terminate in a large trunk. Though the calibre of any given vessel in the series is larger than that of either of the branches which open into it, yet its diameter is less than the sum of their diameters taken together, whence it follows, by a necessary conse- quence, that the diameter of the common trunk is less than the sum of the diameters of the smaller vessels, whose con- tents it receives. Now, when a current flows from a wider into a narrower bed (its level remaining unaltered) it neces- sarily becomes more rapid as it advances; and by an exten- sion of the same principle, when a number of tributary streams open into a channel whose width is less than that of their currents taken together, a certain impetus is given by the mere fact of such an arrangement, which materially aids any other collateral means that may have been devised for expediting its progress. When describing the veins, it is not by any means neces- sary to enter into such details as are required when treating of arteries. They for the most part follow the course of the arteries, and therefore maintain the same relation to contiguous parts. We shall therefore briefly state their dis- tribution and arrangement. 289. The veins of the lower extremity, as in other parts of the body, are divisible into two sets, of which one is deeply seated, whilst the other runs superficially between the common integument and fascia. The deep veins, fol- lowing the course of the arteries and their ramifications, as- sume the names of the vessels they accompany; the super- ficial veins, with one or two exceptions, have no corre- sponding arteries. The deep veins commence in the foot, by branches which follow the course and arrangement of the dorsal and plantar arteries. As they emerge from thence, they become gradually larger, and apply themselves