279 THE ABSORBENT SYSTEM. 294. The common iliac vein (vena iliaca primitiva vel communis) formed by the confluence of the two iliac veins, passes upwards, converging towards the corresponding ves- sel of the opposite side, and both unite at the junction of the fourth with the fifth lumbar vertebra, a little to the right of the middle line, where they terminate in the inferior or as- cending cava. The right is shorter, and nearly vertical in its direction, and both pass under the right common iliac artery. The Absorbent, or Lymphatic Vessels of the Lower Extre- mity. 295. The absorbent system, considered as a whole, is made up, 1, of vessels which convey into the general circulation lymph or chyle, and which from this circum- stance are divided into two orders, viz. lymphatics and lac- teals. The latter are confined to the cavity of the abdomen, and only absorb chyle, the product of digestion; the former are diffused through the body at large, and are engaged in that process of absorption which is constantly going on in the different structures of which it is composed. 2. In dif- ferent parts of the course of the absorbing vessels, rounded or oval bodies are situated, called glands (lymphatic or con- globate?) which in the extremities are found usually in the flexures of joints, but in the cavities are variously disposed. The vessels, as is evident from the results of injection, on arriving at the glands, become intimately connected with them, and in a manner ramify through their interior ; for if some quicksilver be introduced into the vessel, it will soon permeate the whole substance of the gland. The entering vessels are on this account called vasa inferentia. The vessels which issue from the glands appear to arise from their interior by a number of minute radicles, which unite to form tubes of about the same size as those which had entered at the opposite side. These pass on in the course of the circulation, and as they convey away whatever fluids had passed through the glands, they are called vasa ejfe-