252 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. lie close to it, together with their different branches, pour out blood when divided, which embarrasses the young dissector. Hence it often becomes necessary to divide the veins, and remove them, after which the parts may be spunged and the dissection proceeded with. Before this measure is resorted to, the sheath of the vessels should be laid open, and the relative position of the vein and artery considered attentively. In the middle third of the thigh, little more is necessary in order to exhibit the vessel, after the fascia has been removed, than to turn the sartorius outwards ; the course of the artery is then readily perceived, though it is hound down by the firm membrane already noticed, as passing across it from the adductors to the vastus. The relation of the saphenus nerve and the vein to the femoral artery, should be noted care- fully, and its depth from the surface considered, which will at once point out the difficulty of cutting down upon, and tying it in this situation, and the comparative facility with which it can be reached in the upper third of the thigh. When the femoral artery has been sufficiently examined, attention should be directed alto- gether to the profunda and its branches. To expedite the dissec- tion the femoral artery and vein, and also the deep profunda veins, had better be removed; and if after this, the adductor longus be detached from its origin at the pubis, and reflected outwards over the vastus, the profunda artery will be fully exposed. Little dif- ficulty can occur in tracing the external circumflex branch ; but as the internal one sinks deeply between the muscles, it becomes ne- cessary to divide the pectineus at its origin, and turn it outwards on the thigh, after which the artery can be traced as far as the neck of the femur; its terminating branches can be seen only when the posterior part of the thigh has been dissected. In this dissection the crural nerve and its branches should be attended to. They will be observed spreading out into a lash of filaments, which are distributed to the different muscles on the front and inner side of the thigh, whilst a few descend along the course of the artery. When the subject is turned on its face, in order to dissect the posterior part of the limb, an incision may be carried through the skin from midway between the tuber ischii and trochanter major, to the middle of the popliteal space. This may be met by two transverse^ incisions, similar to those made on the fore-part ce