ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 364 vature is established. Now suppose the concavity of the curve to look towards the left side, as is usually the case, we may, even with a slight degree of attention, follow the gradual steps by which the curve increases and becomes permanent. In the first place, in consequence of a natural or acquired disposition, the muscles of the left side are less frequently used than those of the right. When, as in the case here supposed, the frame-work of the body is bent to one side, the muscles become relaxed, and comparatively pow- erless ; the process of nutrition is interrupted, or deranged, and a state of atrophy and flaccidity soon follows. The muscles of the opposite side, on the contrary, are constantly called into action, and so retain their full development, or even acquire an increase of it, so that the disparity between the two sides becomes very striking. As by the alteration in the skeleton, the muscles of the left side are placed under circumstances unfavourable to their ac- tion, so those of the right, on the contrary, are in a manner stimu- lated to an increased effort, and with peculiar advantages. The fibres of some of them, particularly of the cervicalis ascendens and multifidus spinae, are put on the stretch, inasmuch as their points of attachment are separated to a wider interval than natural; for where a lateral curvature exists, the spinous process of a given vertebra is carried, by its deviation from its original position, far- ther away from the transverse process of the one next, or second next below it; and as the fibres of the last-named muscle are ex- tended obliquely between these points, they must necessarily be stretched and thrown into action. Now by the position in which the vertebral column is placed, the spines become relatively the fixed attachment of the multifidus muscle, so that its fibres, acting on the transverse processes (of the right side, as all this reasoning is made to bear on the supposition of a left lateral curvature) draw them upwards, depressing at the same time those of the opposite side, and with them the bodies of the vertebrae, thus increasing the curve. The action of the cervicalis ascendens has a similar ten- dency. Its cervical attachment being drawn away somewhat from the costal one, and becoming relatively fixed by the condition of the spine, its fibres necessarily draw on the ribs of the corre- sponding side, elevating them, together with the transverse proces- ses, by which means those of the opposite side are proportionally depressed, and the curvature increased. If in such circumstances