236 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. these movements are, as it were, rudimentary, and have little to do with the proper function of the part. Further, the three plantar muscles of the great toe are united so intimately together at their insertion, and for some way before it, that it is scarcely possible for them to act singly, or independently of one another; if so, they conspire in some common action, which is simply, that of flexion. The bulk and power of these muscles are obviously disproportioned to the size of the part (the first phalanx) which they act on, as well as to the extent of any motions of which it admits. The same remark extends to the short muscles of the little toe, and generally to the flexors of all the toes, if a compa- rison be instituted between the moving powers and the things to be moved, supposing the phalanges to rank as the latter. Now when we examine with attention the muscular apparatus of the foot, after having studied the structure and mode of adaptation of its different osseous pieces, we see abundant evidence of its being fitted to sustain strong and powerful efforts as a whole, rather than to admit of such free and varied motions amongst its parts as take place in the hand. Thus the oblique direction of the ad- ductor and short flexor of the great toe, as well as of the little toe, enables them to draw the bones of the foot together, at the same time that they curve them downwards, and increase the arched form of the foot. Even the abductors of the great and little toes may, in some degree, conspire to the same end; for as their posterior attachment is nearer the median line than the anterior, they will draw the borders of the foot inwards. These are not the only provisions for concentrating the metatarsal bones. The tendon of the peroneus longus passing across them from without inwards, and that of the tibialis posticus in the oppo- site direction (at least that part of it which is prolonged to the third and fourth metatarsal bones) contribute to the same effect, as does also, but in a very minor degree, the crossing of the ten- dons of the flexor longus pollicis, and flexor communis. All these facts tend to prove, that the aggregation and fixity of the diffe- rent parts of the foot have been abundantly provided for, in order to render it a secure basis of support to the body, and that the mus- cular apparatus by which it is flexed and incurvated downwards, denote it to be what we have here ventured to designate it, —a pow-