ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 306 Along the inner side of the thigh the fascia may be traced upwards over the adductor muscles, and becomes attached to the tuberosity of the ischium, and its ramus, as well as that of the os pubis, as far as its spinous process. The most important part of the membrane—that which has claimed the greatest share of attention from anatomists and surgeons, remains now to be considered, namely, the part immediately below Poupart’s ligament, and which extends from the spinous process of the ileum to that of the pubis. 322. It will be recollected that the membrane forms an uninterrupted sheath, until it comes within a little more than an inch of Poupart’s ligament. There a division takes place, and an opening is established for the transmission of the superficial vessels. The saphena vein, in its whole course, from the inner ankle to the knee, and from thence to the top of the thigh, lies superficial to the fascia. The superficial lymphatic vessels are similarly situated ; the su- perficial epigastric vein and artery also descend over the abdominal muscles; and as all these vessels converge to one point, in order to pour their contents into the deep seated vein, an opening must be established for them in the fascia lata. The existence of this opening has caused a division of the anterior portion of the fascia into two parts, one external, the other internal. The external, or iliac por- tion passes upwards, lying on a plane, anterior to the vessels, and becomes blended with the lower border of Poupart’s ligament, with which it continues to be thus united as far as the spinous process of the pubis. Whilst it is being prolonged in front of the femoral vessels, this part of the membrane, by reason of its inclination from below, upwards and inwards, must necessarily present a curved or falciform appearance, one extremity of it being at the lower border of the saphenous opening, the ether at the spinous process of the pubis. Now, as the membrane stretches between these two points, its border becomes folded on itself, not ceasing abruptly at the margin of the opening, as at first sight may appear. On the contrary, it