224 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. tendinous structures in which the two preceding muscles terminate inferiorly, is situated at the posterior and inferior part of the leg. Form—elongated, narrower in the middle than at the extremities, of which the superior is broader than the inferior; where it passes over the posterior surface of the calcaneum, it is separated from the bone by a syno- vial membrane. It is covered behind by the skin and fascia of the leg; its anterior surface is separated by a consider- able quantity of cellular tissue from the deep-seated mus- cles. 247. The plantaris (petit femoro-calcanien, Chauss., Dumas) is situated immediately behind the knee joint and leg, between the gastrocnemius and soleus ; it consists of a very long thin tendon, and a small pyriform muscular part, about two inches in length. It arises from the femur just above the external condyle, and from the posterior ligament of the knee joint, where it is covered by the corresponding head of the gastrocnemius, and soon ends in a delicate ten- don, which inclines inwards between the two large muscles of the calf of the leg, and running along the inner border of the tendo Achillis, is inserted conjointly with it into the posterior surface of the calcaneum. Its direction, structure, and relations, are here sufficiently indicated. 248. The popliieus (femoro-popliti-tibial, Chauss., Du- mas) is situated immediately behind the knee joint, resting on its posterior ligament. Form—flat, triangular. It arises by a flat, thick tendon, about an inch in length, from a de- pression on the outer side of the external condyle, beneath the attachment of the corresponding lateral ligament of the knee joint, and is inserted into all that triangular surface of the tibia, which is above the posterior oblique line. Direc- tion—obliquely downwards and inwards : structure—tendi- nous at its attachment to the femur, aponeurotic and fleshy in the rest of its extent: relations—behind with an expan- sion continued over it from the semi-membranosus, with the popliteal vessels, the plantaris and gastrocnemius muscles;