POSTERIOR NERVES OF THE THIGH THEIR DISSECTION. 301 prone, and support the abdomen by a high block. It will be recollected, from the description already given, that the super- ficial nerves of the pelvic region are derived superiorly from the muculo-cutaneous nerves of the lumbar plexus (their perforating or posterior branches), internally from the posterior branches of the sacral nerves, and externally from the external cutaneous nerve. In the middle of the thigh the superficial branches are furnished by the two sciatic nerves, and those of the leg from the peroneal and posterior tibial. To expose these, an incision may be made from about the middle of the fold of the nates, to midway between the condyles of the femur, which is to be bounded above and below by two transverse incisions extending across the limb. If the flaps of integument be carefully reflected, two or three large branches of nerves will be found piercing the fascia a little below the lower border of the gluteus muscle, which can from thence be easily traced down to the popliteal space, the fascia affording a guide to their dissection. As the process of this membrane which covers the gluteus maximus is very thin, and often indis- tinct, it is not easy to trace the superficial nerves upon it. We may commence by making an incision through the integument, along the whole length of the sacrum, and within an inch of its spinous processes. From the superior termination of this, ano- ther may be drawn transversely outwards, about two inches above the crista of the ileum, and parallel with it. Now if the skin be carefully dissected from the aponeurosis of the lumbar muscles, the posterior sacral branches will be found piercing it, and turn- ing outwards over the gluteus. And again, if the same course be adopted along the transverse incision, the branches from the lumbar nerves will be observed, after passing through the abdo- minal muscles, close to the crista of the ileum, and proceeding down on the dense fascia covering the gluteus medius, and over part of the gluteus maximus. The posterior branch of the ex- ternal cutaneous nerve will be found along the aponeurosis of the gluteus, after having penetrated the fascia some way below the anterior superior spine of the ileum. The branches which ramify on the posterior surface of the leg may be exposed by making a straight incision from the middle of the ham to the heel. This should be done with caution, as the fascia covering the muscles