532 ELEMENTS CF ANATOMY. tired) is made up of a continuous canal convoluted on itself, about sixteen feet long, and of an inch in diameter. From these another order of vessels (vasa recta) issue, much fewer in number but larger in size, and placed along the posterior border of the testis, where they ascend somewhat, and open into, or terminate in a new order of tubes still fewer and larger (vasa efferentia), which pierce the tunica albuginea towards the upper extremity of the testis, where, by being somewhat convoluted and united by cellular tissue, they form the head (globus major) of the epidi- dymis. The tubes in this part assume rather a peculiar appear- ance, viz. that of cones (coni vasculosi), the summits of which are at their points of exit through the albuginea, and the bases at the upper border of the globus, which they contribute to form by their reflexion. The vasa efferentia terminate in a single tube, which is convoluted as it descends along the posterior border of the testis, where it forms the body of the epididymis; and finally, by a similar disposition lower down, it forms the lower extremity (globus minor) of that appendage, after which it ascends along its inner margin, gradually losing its convoluted character, but still resembling a waving line, until it reaches the cord, where it becomes a straight tube, called vas deferens, or the excretory duct of the testicle. 592. The epididymis is placed along the posterior bor- der of the testes, exterior to its fibrous tunic, and partially invested by the tunica vaginalis. Its upper or larger ex- tremity is called the head, or globus major, the lower being named globus minor; and the thin intervening part, the body. The head is made up of the vascular cones, the rest of the convoluted vas deferens, which turns up at its lower extremity, and ascends, forming one of the component parts of the spermatic cord. The vas deferens lies behind the spermatic artery and veins, and having passed through the inguinal canal, and reached the outer side of the epi- gastric artery, it suddenly turns away from the vessels just mentioned, and dips down into the pelvis, running along the side of the bladder between its surface and the ureter, then along the inner border of the vesicula seminalis, and