PROFUNDA FEMORIS. £47 of the femoral. The superior, or more superficial one, passes up- wards and inwards to the spine of the pubis, crosses the situation of the external abdominal ring, and is distributed to the integu- ments at the lower part of the abdomen, and the external parts of generation. The inferior and deeper seated one, passes inwards, resting on the pectineus, and covered by the fascia lata, which it pierces on reaching the ramus of the pubis, and is distributed to the scrotum in the male, or labium in the female, its branches in- osculating with those of the superficial perineal artery. The supe- rior branch is necessarily cut across, whilst the integuments are being divided in the operation for inguinal hernia. 2. The superficial epigastric artery (epigastrica superficialis) arises from the femoral, about half an inch below Poupart’s ligament, passes forwards through the saphenic opening in the fascia lata ; after which it changes its direction, and runs perpendicularly up- wards between the obliquus externus and the integuments. Its terminal branches ascending as high as the umbilicus anastomose with those of the proper epigastric and internal mammary arte- ries. The rest of its branches ramify in the cellular tissue and superficial fascia, on the lower part of the abdomen. This vessel must be divided by the transverse incision made through integu- ments in the operation for femoral hernia. 3. The superficial circumjlexa ilei artery runs outwards and a little upwards to the spine of the ileum, parallel with Poupart’s li- gament, crossing the psoas and iliacus muscles, to which it gives some branches. It terminates in several small twigs, which pierce the fascia lata, and anastomose with similar branches from the deep circumflexa ilei, the external circumflex and gluteal arte- ries. £73. 4. The profunda femoris may be considered as the proper nutritious vessel of the thigh, its brandies being distributed to it exclusively, whilst the femoral artery passes onwards to supply the leg and foot, giving off very few branches (and these insignificant ones) whilst it corresponds with the femur. In this view of the destination of these vessels, the terms applied to them by Murray seem suffi- ciently appropriate. The short trunk intervening between