ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 6S0 forms a number of processes, which pass inwards, and divide it into detached masses, which may thus be said to be lodged within the areolar intervals of the membrane. Dissection.-—The eye should be examined whilst fresh, as the humours soon become putrid, and the membranes alter in con- sistence and other properties. The eyes of animals will answer sufficiently well in the first instance ; but the relative proportions of the different parts must be studied in the human eye before operations can be attempted with safety. In order to obtain cor- rect notions of the situation and relation of the various structures, it is necessary to make several sections of the globe. Thus a ver- ticle section, by dividing it into two equal parts, will shew the re- lative extent of the cornea and sclerotica, their mode of connexion, and the varying thickness of the latter in different parts. If it be suspended in water, the relation of the iris to the ciliary processes may be observed, and also the manner in which the latter are con- tinuous with the choroid membrane. If a transverse section be carried through the coats, and the posterior half of them be re- moved, leaving the vitreous humour resting on the anterior one, that disposition of the ciliary processes may be distinctly seen by which they are aggregated together so as to form a complete cir- cle round the lens. When the ball of the eye is firmly com- pressed the fluid within the lamellae of the cornea is made to ooze out on its surface, and that membrane becomes opaque. This fact shews the propriety of the practice of evacuating the aqueous hu, mour, in certain cases, when during the progress of acute inflamma- tion of any of the structures this indication of over distension is pre- sented. The structure of the choroid membrane can be examined \vith most effect after the vessels have been filled with some fine in- jection, either from the internal carotid or ophthalmic artery. The size injection will answer sufficiently well for ordinary purposes, but a solution of isinglass, tinged with indigo, will run much more minptely. In order to proceed with the examination, the forepart of the eye should be fixed: for this purpose a pin may be passed across the cornea, and the ends of it be secured to a small plate of glass by a thread, or cord. To keep the eye steady it will be found useful to affix to the glass a lump of common wax, on the top of which the eye may be secured as above-mentioned. Two in-