metatarsal articulations. 189 side to side; the internal one is broader and stronger than the other. The contiguous flat surfaces of the bones are lined by synovial membranes. 196. The articulation of the tarsus and metatarsus. The four anterior bones of the tarsus, viz. the three cunei- form and the cuboid articulate with the metatarsus. The first and third cuneiform bones project beyond the others; so that the anterior extremity of the tarsus is very irre- gular. The first metatarsal bone articulates with the internal cuneiform ; the second is wedged in between the first and third cuneiform; the third metatarsal bone arti- culates with the extremity of the corresponding cuneiform, and the two last with the cuboid bone. 197. The five cylindrical bones which form the meta- tarsus are connected by ligaments, so as to form an inte- grant part of the foot. At their posterior or tarsal extre- mity, two sets of ligaments are situated, one on the dorsal, the other on the plantar surface. These consist of three short, thin bands of fibres, which pass transversely across the contiguous extremities of the four last metatarsal bones; the plantar set is similarly disposed; but no such connexion exists between the first and second bones. At the anterior, or digital extremity, the five bones are con- nected by a transverse ligament, which is a flat, thin band of fibres, passing across from the extremity of one bone to the other; it is situated on the plantar surface of the me- tatarsus. 198. The posterior extremities of the metatarsal bones are retained in contact with the tarsal bones by dorsal and plantar ligaments and synovial membranes. These are flat, thin bands of parallel fibres, which pass from behind forwards, connecting the contiguous extremities of the bones just mentioned. Thus the first metatarsal bone receives a broad, thin band from the corresponding cunei- form bone; the second receives three, which converge to its upper surface, one passing from each cuneiform; the