60 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the first descends a little, and all the rest ascend more and more as they are situated lower down. The external or costal extremity, convex and unequal, is implanted into the end of the corresponding rib. The internal extremity of the cartilages of the true ribs is articulated with the ster- num ; each of the cartilages of the three first false ribs is attached to, and blended with that which is next above it; in the two last it is pointed and unattached. Attachments of Muscles. The two layers of intercostals to the contiguous borders of all the ribs : the scaleni to the first and second: the pectoralis major to the cartilages of the true ribs, except the first: the pectoralis minor to the bo- dies of the third, fourth, and fifth : the rectus abdominis to cartilages of the three last true ribs and ensiform cartilage: the obliquus externus to the three last true ribs, and all the false : the internal oblique and transversalis to the cartilages of the four or five false ribs: the diaphragm to the ensiform cartilage, and to those of the six last ribs. The serratus magnus to the nine superior ribs: the latissimus dorsi to the four inferior: the serratus posticus superior to the third, fourth, and fifth true ribs : the serratus posticus inferior to the three last: the sacro-lumbalis to the angles of all the ribs: the levatores costarum a little beyond the tuberosities. Of the Pelvis. 40. The pelvis, or basin-shaped extremity of the trunk, is a deep cavity, formed by the union of the ossa innominata, the sacrum, and coccyx. Its form is somewhat circular; its size presents many varieties, dependant on the age of the subject, as well as on individual conformation. In young subjects the two large lateral bones, the ossa innominata, are divided each into three pieces, the ileum, ischium, and os pubis; the sacrum consists of five pieces, resembling in some respects the bones of the vertebral column, hence called false vertebrae; these, in adult age, become united into one. The coccyx, or caudal prolongation, consists of