378 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. The muscles of the arm are the coraco-brachialis, the biceps flexor, the brachialis anticus, and triceps extensor. 380. The coraco-brachialis is placed along the superior and inner part of the arm, for about half its length. It arises from the coracoid process of the scapula, between the pectoralis minor and the short head of the biceps, also from the tendon of the latter, with which it is intimately united for some way. The fleshy fasciculus thus formed passes downwards and a little outwards, to be inserted into the inner side of the humerus about its middle, where it is interposed between the brachialis anticus and triceps. Di- rection—nearly vertical: structure—aponeurotic at its at- tachments, fleshy in the middle: relations—its anterior sur- face is covered above by the deltoid and pectoralis major, and at its insertion is crossed by the brachial artery. The pos- terior surface runs over the tendon of the sub-scapularis, and those of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, the axil- lary vessels intervening; one border is in apposition with the biceps, the other with the brachial artery; its belly is usually pierced by the external cutaneous nerve. 381. The biceps flexor cubiti (coraco-scapulo-radial) lies along the anterior part of the arm for its entire length. Superiorly it is divided into two heads, whence its name is derived. Of these the internal, or short head arises, con- jointly with the coraco-brachialis, from the extremity of the coracoid process, from which it descends and unites at an acute angle with the external or long head, which arises from the upper border of the glenoid cavity, where it is also connected with the fibrous rim, which surrounds that cavity. The tendon passes over the globular head of the humerus, enclosed in a sheath formed of the synovial membrane of the joint, and, after piercing the fibrous cap- sule, and descending some way in the groove appropriated for it, unites, as above stated, with the short head. The long, rounded, fleshy belly thus formed, ends near the bend of the arm, in a flat tendon, which sinks deeply between