411 VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. trunk, which divides into two ramusculi, that run along, upon the dorsal aspect of the bones of the thumb, one at its radial, the other at its ulnar border. e. The dorsal branch of the carpus (dorsalis carpi radialis) arises close by the tendons of the radial extensor muscles, beneath which it runs upon the dorsal surface of the carpus, to anastomose with a similar branch, proceeding from the ulnar artery. From the con- cavity of the arch thus formed, ramusculi proceed backwards, and communicate with the interosseous arteries, and from its con- vexity others run forwards along the metacarpal spaces, supplying the dorsal interosseous muscles, and anastomosing with the digital arteries. A small branch will be found also on the anterior sur- face of the carpus, arising from the radial artery somewhat higher up. It is called rarnvs anterior carpi radialis, to distinguish it from a similar branch from the ulnar, with which it anastomoses. f The dorsal branch of the index finger (dorsalis indicis) arises lower down than the preceding, and after sending ramusculi to the abductor indicis, ramifies on the dorsal surface of the index finger. Its size is very inconsiderable. g. The ramus princeps pollicis commences where the artery is about to turn into the palm of the hand, and after proceeding for- wards, between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis, divides near the extremity of the first metacarpal bone, into two ramus- culi, which run along the borders of the phalanges of the thumb at its palmar aspect. These form its collateral branches, and unite by anastomosing upon its second phalanx, in the same way as those of the other fingers, derived from the superficial palmar arch. h. Close to the preceding, a branch arises variable in size, but very regular in its course, called ramus radialis indicis. It runs along the external border of the index finger, and on its last phalanx anastomoses with the corresponding collateral branch, derived from the superficial palmar arch. Section III. THE VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITIES. 425. The veins of the upper extremity are divisible into two sets, one being superficial, the other deep-seated.