PERINEUM—“ LITH0NTRIT1E.’ 565 tions. After the stone has been crashed, should any of the fragments happen to be too large to pass through the urethra, the operation must be repeated, which renders it difficult, if not impossible, to say when it is completed. Now, suppose every thing to be done in the way of trituration and bruising that an instrument can do, we may just raise this question,—What are the immediate effects of the operation, and what are its remote consequences? The urethra and neck of the bladder, both sensitive in no small de- gree, having suffered during the operation a degree of irritation proportioned to the susceptibility of the individual, and of the part, from its previous condition, begin now to be subjected to the additional irritation consequent on the passage, from day to day, for an indefinite period, of a quantity of sabulous and gritty mat- ter over their surface. After all this, should a fragment of any size remain (an occurrence far from unlikely,) the local and con- stitutional irritation may be such, that the triturating process can- not, or will not, again be submitted to, and then the operation by incision must be resorted to, under most unfavourable circum- stances. If the calculus be large, or of the mulberry species, it would require a considerable force to crush it, even though it be perforated in several directions; and if, in the endeavour to ac- complish this, one of the prongs were to give way, (an accident not unlikely to happen to those not habituated to the use of such instruments,) the operation by incision cannot be deferred, even though it becomes necessary to lay open a bladder irritated by the previous proceedings. To conclude, this expedient cannot, un- der any view of it, be considei'ed as a substitute in all cases, nor even in the majority of cases, for the operation by incision. It cannot be resorted to in persons of an irritable habit, or in cases in which the bladder has become contracted and irritable by the long continuance of a calculus within it; neither is it practicable in children, for in them the urethra will not admit, without great suffering, a straight instrument, nor will it carry one of sufficient size to admit of its prongs being stout enough to exert any con- siderable force on the stone. It is applicable, then, only in cases that may be considered free from local or constitutional irritation, and even in such it may induce both, without ensuring a complete removal of the stone.