557 PERINEUM—CATHETER. inch, to get to a level with the urethral foramen in the perinseal fascia; and, finally, having passed through the foramen, it inclines a little upwards behind the symphysis. This latter curve is very trifling in the adult, but is considerable in the young subject, owing to the position of the bladder. When, preparatory to the introduc- tion of a catheter, the penis is drawn upwards on a line with the ab- domen, the first or anterior curve no longer exists, and so the canal presents but a single curve, corresponding with that of the instru- ment. If the integument, superficial fascia, and muscles, be re- moved from the penis and perinaeum, we can observe what takes place on the introduction of a catheter. No impediment occurs during its passage through the spongy portion, as it is called, for that part of the tube is supported by the body of the penis, and is also quite straight. But the bulbous portion is comparatively unattached, and also slightly dilated at its lower surface. On arriving close to the periuasal fascia, should the point of the catheter deviate to either side, or be elevated or depressed too much, it will miss the foramen, carrying the urethra with it, and so the latter will be pinched between the margin of the foramen and the instrument. If, in such a position of the parts, force be used, or if the catheter be depressed, with a view to make it correspond with the curve of the urethra, the latter must be torn through, or considerably injured. A catheter, in its construction, resembles an angular lever, though not intended to act as such : but it virtually becomes such, if, after its progress is impeded, and it is thereby rendered fixed, an effort is made to depress the handle; for then the beak is made to move in the opposite direc- tion, and will readily tear through the urethra. The effect of drawing the penis upwards may be exemplified in this way: when the catheter has reached the bulb, (the urethra and perinaeal fascia being fully exposed) if it deviates to either side, the point will be observed to catch on the margin of the foramen, but if the urethra is drawn upwards, the impediment will be removed by the widening of the aperture in the foramen. It has been contended rather strenuously by some persons, that the direction of the urethra becomes horizontal, and its canal straight, when the penis is drawn directly forwards. It will however be found, that when the penis is so placed, the urethra has to descend more than an