462 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. responds with the red part of the lip, whilst the other is blended with the muscles just referred to, and which, from their situation and mode of attachment, are its direct anta- gonists. Actions.—The aperture of the mouth is susceptible of consider- able dilatation and contraction, the former being effected by the different muscles which converge to it, and which may be com- pared to retractors drawing with different degrees of obliquity, the lips, or their angles, in the direction of their respective points of attachment. The elevators are necessarily placed at the upper part of the face, the depressors in the opposite situation, and the proper retractors on each side. These are the zigomatici and the buccinators. The last-named muscles contract and compress the cheeks; this power is brought into play when any substance be- comes lodged in the interval between them and the jaws. The fibres of the muscle are then elongated and pressed outwards, but when they begin to act, they form a flat plane, which is pressed inwards, and so forces the substance back into the cavity of the mouth. It is obvious that the orbicular muscle must be the direct antagonist of all those that converge to it. When de- scribing the muscles, we may commence at the lips as a common point of departure, and trace their fibres from thence as they diverge, radiating to their respective attachments. The muscles which move the lower jaw are the fol- lowing : 510. The masseter occupies the interval between the zigoma and the angle of the lower jaw. It is a thick, com- pressed mass of tendinous and fleshy fibres, arranged so as to form two bundles, differing in size and direction. The external, or larger portion of the muscle, arises from the outer surface, and lower border of the malar bone, from which its fibres proceed downwards, and a little backwards, to be inserted into the lower half of the ramus of the jaw, extending as far as its angle. The internal, or smaller part, consists of fibres, whose direction is for the most part vertical, some inclining a little forwards. It arises by fleshy