ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 194 cord, and are lost in the tunica vaginalis testis. When examined with attention, the cremaster appears to consist of two fasciculi; the external, and longer, which descends from the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, the other, internal and smaller, being attached to the crista of the pubis. From these points of attachment the fibres de- scend through the external abdominal ring, converge and unite so as to form arches whose convexity looks down- wards, their degrees of obliquity encreasing as they de- scend. The cremaster does not exist as a distinct mus- cle before the descent of the testis.* In the foetus of five months old, the inferior fibres of the internal ob- lique arch downwards and inwards, from Poupart’s liga- ment to the crista of the pubis, passing over a delicate greyish fasciculus, the gubernaculum testis, which alone occupies the inguinal canal at this period. The guberna- culum is intimately connected with these fibres of the in- ternal oblique, and if it be drawn downwards they may be made to descend through the ring, and if retained in this situation they will strictly resemble the cremaster in direc- tion and attachments. This experiment at once points out the manner in which the cremaster is produced; it shows that the fibres of which it consists were originally part of the inferior oblique muscle, and that, as the testis passes from the abdomen into the scrotum, they are drawn along with it, by reason of the intimate connexion subsisting be- tween them and its gubernaculum. The testis sometimes passes between the fibres of the internal oblique; when this occurs some will lie behind the cord, others (usually the greater number) before it, so that it is completely invested by them. 205. The transversalis abdominis, (transversus abdomi- nis, Soemm.; lombo-abdominal, Chauss.) situated subjacent to the preceding muscle, and of the same form, arises from the iliac half of Poupart’s ligament, from the inner mar- * Retherches Anatomiques sur les Hernies, par Jules Cloquet.