48 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. rate the various peculiarities observable in the different orders of bones. 32. The bones are invested externally by a fibrous mem- brane (periosteum), and lined internally by another which secretes the medulla that fills their cavities. The existence of the medullary membrane in the interior of long bones, may be demonstrated by sawing the shaft across, and ex- posing it to heat, which will crisp the membrane, and cause its separation from the inner surface of the bone. Its form is tubular, the external surface being connected by minute filaments with the compact texture of the bone, whilst from the internal, thin lamellae pass inwards and interlace with one another so as to form cells or areolae, similar to those in the cellular"or adipose tissue in other parts. Towards the extremities of the bones, the medullary membrane appears to be continuous, with a similar lining of the different cells, but their extreme tenuity renders it very difficult to demon- strate the fact. The periosteum invests the bones throughout their en- tire extent, except at their articulating extremities; but though its continuity is interrupted at the moveable arti- culations, the membrane passes over the immoveable ones, and assists in maintaining the connexion between their parts; its external surface is rough, flocculent, and co- vered by a number of filaments, by which it is connected with the surrounding textures, such as muscular fibres, li- gaments, and tendons. The internal surface is connected to the bones, both by the vessels which pass into their struc- ture, and by delicate processes of the membrane which ac- company them in their course. The connexion is not so intimate in infancy as in adult age. The periosteum not only forms an investment for the bones, but also serves to transmit and support their nutritious vessels; and in infancy, before ossification is complete, it maintains the epiphyses in connexion with the bodies of bones, and gives attachment to tendons and ligaments.