ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 616 base of the brain, where it forms a thin semi-transparent lamella. This reflected part is nearly horizontal in its di- rection, so that it lies beneath the corpora striata and above the commissure of the optic nerves, to which it^ad- heres, but still passes backwards, and becomes continuous with the tuber cinereum in the middle line, and at each side its margins are blended with the substantia perforata. The posterior border of the corpus callosum, which is also thick and rounded at the middle line, divides into two fas- ciculi of fibres, which can be traced into the posterior and descending cornua of the ventricles; one of these forms the medullary investment of the hippocampus minor, the other that of the hippocampus major. 660. Beneath the corpus callosum are situated the late- ral ventricles, occupying the interior of the hemispheres. Their shape is very irregular, and can scarcely be said to bear a resemblance to any known figure. Each of them may be considered as divisible into a body, or central por- tion, and three cornua. The central part lies horizontally: one cornu extends forwards from it into the anterior lobe, another backwards into the posterior, and the third down- wards into the middle one ; each of these presents certain peculiarities referrible to the parts seen within them, which deserve notice. In the central part will be observed the corpus striatum, thalamus nervi optici; and between them the taenia semicircularis, also the margin of the fornix, and part of the plexus choroxdes. Previously to describ- ing these objects it may be observed that the lateral ven- tricles are separated by a partition (septum lucidum) which descends from the corpus callosum to its reflected lamella in front, and to the fornix behind. It consists of two thin lamellae of white substance, between which is a fissure, or interval, called the fifth ventricle. Beneath the corpus callosum and septum lucidum is a triangular lamella of white matter, which is extended from behind forwards over the third ventricle, and is thence termed fornix. Its