663 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. into superior, middle, and inferior portions, corresponding with the cervical and cranial regions, the thoracic, and the abdominal. As they are symmetrical, the description of one will suffice for both. Each nerve consists, in most in- stances, of three cervical ganglia, twelve dorsal, five lum- bar, and four sacral, with their cords of connexion. To these should be added three small ganglia in the cranium; viz. the lenticular in the orbit, the spbeno-palatine, or the ganglion of Meckel, and a small one, described by Ribes, as being placed on the branch of communication between the anterior cerebral arteries. We shall commence with the first cervical ganglion. 697. The superior, or great cervical ganglion, is elon- gated and fusiform, so as to extend from two or three lines beneath the base of the skull, to the transverse process of the third cervical vertebra. It lies on the rectus anticus muscle, concealed by the jugular vein and carotid artery. Branches proceed from it in every possible direction, which may be arranged into sets as follows—ascending, descend- ing, external, internal, and anterior. «. The ascending set are two in number: they enter the fora- men caroticum, and form round the artery a plexus (plexus cnroti- cus), from which two or three filaments pass upwards to commu- nicate with the sixth nerve in the cavernous sinus; one or two may also be traced along the carotid artery as far as the minute ganglion placed on the arteria communicans. A filament also ascends to the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, and which appears to be that which is prolonged to the lenticular ganglion; another is said to communicate with the descending branch of the Vidian nerve. Would it not be more conformable with what ob- tains generally throughout the organic system of nerves, to consi- der the two last branches as being derived, the one from the lenti- cular ganglion, and escorted for a while by the fifth nerve, in order to be ultimately prolonged to the carotid plexus, so as to connect the orbital ganglion with the rest of the system ? and again, to view the descending branch of the Vidian as being continued to