ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY* 662 between the erector penis and accelerator urinae. In this course, it gradually becomes superficial as it ascends, and in the male is distributed to the scrotum, in females to the labium. It not unfrequently gives off the following artery. 3. Arteria trctnsversa perincei arises either from the pudic artery, or from the preceding branch, when on a level with the transversus perinaei muscle. As its name implies, it runs across the perinaeum, and terminates in small twigs, which are distributed to the parts between the anus and bulb. 4. corporis bulbosi passes horizontally inwards from the pudic artery, when it is on a level with the bulb of the urethra, on reaching which it divides into ramusculi, that soon become capillary, and spread out into the erectile tissue, constituting the bulb and corpus spongiosum. 5. corporis cavernosi is one of the terminal branches of the internal pudic. It turns forwards, and enters the body of the corpus cavernosum, in which it ramifies somewhat in the same way as the preceding vessel does in the corpus spongiosum and bulb. 6. dorsalis penis passes upwards between the root of the penis and the pubic symphysis, and having pierced the sus- pensory ligament, runs forward parallel with its fellow of the opposite side, freely supplying the integument in its course. Near the corona glandis each of these arteries branches out into ramusculi, some of which pierce the glans, whilst others supply the prepuce. 614. The internal pudic vein corresponds in its course and distribution with the artery just described. It com- mences by branches which are placed along' the inferior and lateral parts of the penis, communicating at their origin with the capillary arteries of the glans, and in their course with those of the corpus cavernosum. At the pubic symphysis these are joined by others which issue from the corpus cavernosum ; after this the vein takes the qourse of the artery, receiving branches, and gradually increasing as it descends inside the ramus of the ischium and its tuberosity; and, finally, after having passed round