318 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The superior division, or zone, is called, from its position, the epigastric region (e7T£, above or upon, yaarr/p, the ab- domen). Its lower boundary corresponds with the line above indicated, the upper, with the ensiform cartilage, and the diaphragm. The inferior division has been named the hypogastric region (wo, under or beneath, yaarr\p, the abdomen) which extends from the lower transverse line to the crista of the pubis, and to Poupart’s ligament on each side. The intermediate, or middle division, is called the umbilical region, from the circumstance of the um- bilical aperture being placed at its centre. These divi- sions not having been found sufficient for the purposes above stated, it became necessary to subdivide each of them into three minor regions, which may be done by drawing two lines parallel to one another, from the cartilage of the eighth rib down to the centre of Poupart’s liga* ment. By this expedient each primary region is divided into a central and two lateral ones. The epigastric region is thus resolved in the two hypochondriac regions (wo, under, ^ovSpog, the cartilage) and the proper epigastric region, which is sometimes called scrobiculus cordis. The middle zone is divided into the proper umbilical region in the centre, and the two lumbar regions on each side; and the inferior zone into the proper hypogastric or pubic re- gion in the centre, and the iliac regions on each side. 330. The mode of subdividing the primary regions here suggested differs from that adopted by others. The verti- cal lines are invariably directed to be drawn from the most prominent point of the costal cartilages, to the anterior su- perior spinous process of the ileum. It must be obvious that the very purpose and intent of marking out these lines shew that they are not confined to the surface on which they are drawn. They are, on the contrary, supposed to be projected into so many planes, forming partitions, which divide the cavity into compartments, each containing a cer- tain portion of the abdominal viscera. Now, if lines were