THE EYE—CILIARY PROCESSES. G75 the former, two in number, pass directly forwards, after having pierced the sclerotica, lying between the latter and the choroid, without giving branches to either; and when they reach the ciliary ligament they turn inwards, and divide into branches, which are ex- clusively distributed to the iris. These vessels are situated at opposite sides of the globe, nearly on a line with its axis ; the ex- ternal one, however, is a little above, the internal a little below u. The short ciliary arteries pierce the sclerotica nearer to the optic nerve than the long ones, and soon divide into branches, which run at first parallel with one another, and mutually send twigs of communication, so that they all freely anastomoze, particularly towards the anterior part of the choroid, where they form a circle, consisting of a most minute interlacement of vessels. The veins are readily distinguishable from the arteries by their greater size, as well as by their peculiar arrangement. They extend from before backwards in a radiated form, describing arches as they converge to the posterior part of the eye, and form by this union three or four small vessels, which pierce the sclerotica, and open into the ophthalmic vein. As the veins of the choroid membrane are dis- posed in whirls, they are usually denominated vasa vorticosci; they occupy for the most part the external, and the arteries the internal surface of the membrane. On this distribution of the vessels is founded the division of the choroid into two lamellae, of which the internal is denominated tunica Ruyschiana, in com- pliment to Ruysch, who was the first that succeeded in demon- strating its structure by injection. The inner surface of the mem- brane, from its villous or fleecy appearance, has been called tape- tun? ; when minutely injected it is of a deep scarlet colour. It appears to secrete the colouring matter (pigmenlum nigrum), which gives to the choroid membrane of man and animals its va- rious shades of colour. 714. The ciliary processes, formed, as has been above stated, of the anterior margin of the choroid, are from 60 to 80 in number. The form of each lamella, or process, is triangular: one side looks forward to the iris, the other backwards to the crystalline lens and vitreous humour, with which it is in contact; the third, or shortest, is free. The processes are alternately long and short, and in their arrangement resemble the plicae observable on the under surface 2x2