461 BUCCINATOR. At the side of the cheek is a pair of muscles, the buc- cinators, and round the margin of the mouth one, the orbi- cularis oris. 508. The buccinator is a thin flat plane of muscular fibres, occupying the interval between the jaws, and is of a quadrilateral figure, all its sides being attached. Thus, its upper and lower borders are attached to the alveolar margins of the maxillae, from the first molar teeth, as far back as the last; the anterior is blended at the commissure of the lips with the orbicular muscle ; whilst the posterior is fixed to a thin, flat fasciculus of tendinous fibres, extended from the internal pterygoid plate, to the posterior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, close to the last dens molaris. This tendinous band, from its attachments, has been called the pterygo-maxillary ligament; one of its surfaces looks towards the mouth, and is lined by the mucous membrane : the other is separated from the ramus of the jaw by a quantity of adipose substance; the anterior border gives attachment, as has been here stated, to the buccina- tor muscle, and the posterior, to the superior constrictor of the pharynx. It is this connexion between the muscles just named which establishes a complete continuity of sur- face between the cavity of the mouth and that of the pharynx. The internal surface of the buccinator is lined throughout by the mucous membrane of the mouth; the external is separated from the masseter and zigomatici, which overlap it, by a quantity of soft adipose tissue, of a peculiar character. Opposite the second dens molaris of the upper jaw, its fibres give passage to the duct of the parotid gland. 509. The orbicularis oris belongs to the class of sphinc- ter muscles, and like them is elliptic in its form, and com- posed of concentric fibres. It is flat and thin; its inner surface being in contact with the mucous membrane, the external with the fibres of the different muscles, which are prolonged to the margin of the mouth. One border cor-