ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 522 the anterior or apex by the commencement of the urethra. This is the “trigone vesical" of Lieutaud and Camper;* its apex or anterior angle, from being slightly elevated, has also been named “ luelte vesicale," (uvula vesicce.) Structure. The bladder, like the other hollow viscera, is com- posed of three coats, or layers, united by cellular tissue. The peritonaeal, or exterior coat, we have already noticed as forming a partial investment. The muscular layer consists of pale fibres disposed in different directions. The external fibres on the fore- part may be seen to pass upwards from the neck to the summit, and from thence downwards and backwards to the base of the prostate gland. On the sides they follow an oblique course. The internal set are for the most part transverse, and towards the neck, so nearly assume a circular direction, that some anato- mists have considered them as a sphincter muscle, (sphincter ve- sica). The mucous coat is pale, and smooth when distended. In early life, the bladder receives its arteries from the hypogastric ; in the adult it is supplied by the proper vesical arteries, and by twigs derived from the hemorrhoidal and internal pudic vessels, the greater number being towards the neck and base. Its veins form a plexus at the same situation, and open into those of the internal iliac. The lymphatics follow a similar course, whilst the nerves come from the sacral plexus, formed by the sympathe- tic, and also from the two last sacral nerves. 579. Ligaments of the bladder. The bladder is re- tained in situ by certain membranous reflexions called liga- ments. The fascia iliaca, it will be recollected, descends into the pelvis, becoming adherent to its margin; from thence it is prolonged downwards, to a level with an ob- lique line extended from the pubic symphysis to the spine of the ischium. At that point it contracts a close con- nexion with the obturator fascia, after which it is continued to the side of the bladder and prostate gland, with whose structure it becomes in a manner identified. A similar ar- rangement of the membrane takes place at the opposite side, and both are termed the lateral ligaments of the * Camper, Fascic. Anat. Pathol.