575 PERICARDIUM. alone for their nutrition. A similar idea seems to have been en- tertained concerning the nerves, by Haller, who says, “ Neque multos, nec magnos pulmonis nervos esse.” But if we compare not the size, but the quantity of matter of the lungs, with that of any other organ, even with the liver, we shall find no reason to question the sufficiency of the bronchial arteries, or to doubt whe- ther they are as well supplied with nerves as other parts. 4. The nerves of the lung are derived from the two pulmonary plexus placed one in front of the bronchi, the other behind them ; the latter being the larger. The nervus vagus contributes much the greater share to the formation of the plexus, assisted by the intercostal nerve. The branches of both form an inextricable in- terlacement exterior to the lungs, but are not found to anasto- mose within their substance. An opinion for some time pre- vailed, that the gangliac nerves were distributed exclusively to the vessels of the lung, and those of the nervus vagus to the bronchi. But Reiseissen*, after a most minute examination of this, and almost every other question that can be raised concerning the structure of the lungs, has come to the conclusion, that the branches derived from the nerves belong alike to the vessels as to the bronchi, and ramify indiscriminately on both. 5. The lymphatics of the lungs are divisible into two sets ; one being superficial, the other deep seated. The superficial vessels run beneath the pleurae, and after ramifying, so as to enclose, areolar spaces, terminate in the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. The deep set take the course of the veins; they enter the bronchial glands, and after having emerged from them again, they pass along the trachea; those of the left side terminating in the thoracic duct, those of the right in the lymphatic trunk of the corresponding side. Pericardium. 626. The pericardium is a membranous sack which in- vests the heart, and the commencement of the large arte- rial and venous trunks which are connected with it. It is composed of two layers, the external being fibrous, the iri- * De structure, pulmonum.