135 THE ORBITS. small process of the inferior spongy bone; this canal, a little ex- panded at its extremities, is directed downwards, backwards, and a little outwards. The outer surface of the orbit, composed of the orbitar plates of the malar and sphenoid bones, presents some minute foramina, which transmit small nerves from the orbit to the temporal fossa. The superior internal angle, formed by the junction of the or- bital process of the frontal bone, the os unguis, and os planum, presents two, and sometimes three foramina (foramen orbitare, in- ternum anterius, et posterius,) which give transmission, the ante- rior to the nasal twig of the ophthalmic nerve, the posterior to the ethmoidal artery. The internal inferior angle is formed by the union of the os unguis, os planum, and the maxillary and palate bones. In the external angle, formed by the malar, frontal, and sphenoid bones, is observed the sphenoid fissure, of a triangular form, situated obliquely, its base being internal and inferior, the apex external and superior. In the inferior external angle is situ- ated the spheno-maxillary fissure, inclined at an angle with the former, and communicating with it, but of a different form, being broad at its extremities, and narrow at the centre. This latter is formed by the malar, the great ala of the sphenoid, the maxillary and palate bones. The anterior extremity, or base, of the orbit, is directed outwards and forwards, and, as if to provide for a free range of lateral vision, the external wall retreats in some degree, and does not extend as far forward as the internal. In each orbit, parts of seven bones are observed, viz. the frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, os unguis, malar, maxillary, and palate bones ; but as three of these, viz. the ethmoid, sphenoid, and frontal, are common to both, there are only eleven bones for the two orbits. The Nasal Fossae. These fossae are two irregular cavities, placed at each side of the median line, separated by a flat, vertical septum. They com- municate, by foramina, with the various sinuses lodged in the frontal, ethmoid, and superior maxillary bones, and open anteri- orly, on the surface, by the nares, and posteriorly, into the pha- rynx. The roof, the floor, the inner, and the outer walls of these cavities, require a separate consideration.