578 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. to meet at an angle, their junction being marked by a slight elevation, called tuberculum Lowcri. The greater part of the cavity forms a pouch (sinus auricula), which is smooth, and but slightly muscular in its structure. The inner sur- face of the auricula is distinguished from the rest by se- veral fleshy fasciculi, which run transversely upon it, called musculi pectinati. Just above the orifice of the inferior cava is situated an oval depression (fossa ovalis, vestigium foraminis ovalis), indicating the original communication between the auricles: its upper border is formed by a fleshy ring (annulus ovalis). At the line of union between the inferior cava and the auricle is situated a crescentic fold of the lining membrane, called valvula Eustachii. Be- tween this valve and the ventricular opening is situated the orifice of the coronary vein, protected by a valve. Se- veral minute foramina may also be observed in different parts of the auricle, resembling the orifices of small veins, and called foramina Thebesii. Placed obliquely between the appendix and the inferior cava, we observe the auriculo- ventricular opening of an elliptic form, and about an inch in diameter; round its circumference is attached the tri- cuspid valve, the rest of which lies in the cavity of the ventricle. 630. The right ventricle (ventriculus pulmonalis) ex- tends from the base of the right auricle to the apex of the heart. Its form is somewhat triangular: to see its inte- rior, it will be found convenient to make an angular or V-shaped flap, by dissecting up its anterior wall. When this is done, we observe that the interior surface presents a number of fleshy pillars, which, by reason of their modes of attachment, are divisible into three orders. The first, adherent by both extremities, are free in the rest of their extent; others are but slightly prominent, being attached by their extremities, as well as by the greater part of their circumference: the third set form three or four fasciculi, which are directed from the summit towards the base of