ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 380 what at each side of it, and supports the brachial artery and median nerve. Combined Actions.—The most obvious action of the biceps is that of bending the fore-arm, in which it conspires with the bra- chialis anticus ; it also serves to render tense the fascia of the arm by means of the process which connects its tendon with that mem- brane. If the arm be placed in the prone position, the biceps can turn it supine, being in this particular the direct antagonist of the pronator radii teres. When the fore-arm is rendered fixed by holding some firm object, the biceps and brachialis muscles can draw on the humerus, and bend it forwards on the arm, which is exemplified in the effort of climbing. They also can move the humerus on the scapula, but their influence in this respect must be very limited, as they run parallel with the axis of the bone. When the humerus is fixed, these muscles, by drawing on the co- racoid process, move the scapula, and therefore the glenoid cavity on the head of the bone, so that the latter may receive support from the former, rather than that it should be pressed up against the capsular ligament solely. 383. The triceps extensor cnbiti rests against the poste- rior surface of the humerus for its entire length, being the only muscle that lies behind the hone and inter-muscular septa. Superiorly it is divided into three processes or heads, whence its name is derived, whilst its lower half, or more, remains single and undivided. In order to facilitate its description, we shall adopt Bichat’s plan, and commence at the lower extremity of the muscle. The triceps then is attached to the summit and sides of the olecranon, by a strong tendon, which gradually expands into a wide aponeu- rosis, that covers the posterior Aspect of the muscle, for about half its length. From the anterior, or humeral sur- face of this aponeurosis the fleshy fibres arise and proceed, with varying degrees of obliquity, to be inserted into the posterior surface of the humerus, and the inter-muscular septa, thus forming a thick, fleshy mass, which continues