54G elements of anatomy. layer of the transverse meso-colon ; but on reaching the spleen, it insinuates itself between the layers of its epiploon. Th& foramen of Winsloiv is an oval tube, by which the general cavity of the peritonaeum communicates with that enclosed within the great omentum: it lies between the lesser omentum and the returning lamella of the transverse meso-colon. By inserting a large blow-pipe into it, air may be passed down into the omental sack, shewing that it consists of a double pouch, one inside the other, and which, therefore, when collapsed, will appear to con- sist of four layers. Now let it for a moment be conceived possi- ble, by passing down a hook to seize the inner pouch, and draw it upwards, it will necessarily be inverted, as it is being drawn through the foramen into the general peritonasal cavity, where it will appear as a long cul-de-sac. If such a measure could be effected, the hepatic and coronary arteries, it is obvious, could pass readily to their destinations, as the membrane no longer in- terposed. Suppose them to have reached their destination, we may then commence to invert the sack previously drawn out, upon itself, and so turn it inside out, until it is completely in- verted, at the same time thrusting it down to its original situation; it would then be found that its upper extremity would represent a narrow neck or tube, with a throat-like aperture, such as we find Winslow’s foramen to be. The Perinceum. G03. In this region the following muscles are situated : the sphincter ani, and accelerator urinae, which may be considered as single muscles composed of symmetrical halves ; also the transversus perinaei, erector penis, levator ani, and compressor urethrae, disposed in pairs on each side of the median line. 604. The sphincter ani is a flat elliptic muscle, placed immediately beneath the skin surrounding the margin of the am\s. It is attached posteriorly to the coccyx by a narrow fasciculus of tendinous fibres, and anteriorly be- comes blended, about midway between the anus and the bulb, through the medium of a common tendinous point,