ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 240 The epigastric artery is accompanied by one or two veins; it is crossed by the vas deferens, which at first lies in front of it, then turns round its external side, as it descends to- wards the pelvis. The vessel is therefore placed at the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, through which the spermatic cord passes. Its branches are as follows: a, A small branch passes along the spermatic cord beneath the cremaster muscle, escapes through the external abdominal ring, and after supplying the parts in the cord, anastomoses with the proper spermatic artery : b, several muscular branches pass from its inner and outer sides to the parts along which it runs: c, some come forwards through the muscles, become sub-cutaneous, and communicate with the superficial epigastric artery: d, the ter- minal branches ascend in the substance of the rectus muscle, and anastomose with the internal mammary. 2G8. 2. The circumflexa ilei artery, smaller than the pre- ceding, is placed obliquely along the lower border of the abdomen. It arises from the external side of the iliac ar- tery, on a level with Poupart’s ligament, whose direction it takes as it runs upwards and outwards to the anterior supe- rior spine of the ileum, where it turns along its crista, and divides into several branches, which are distributed to the abdominal muscles. About an inch after its origin, this ar- tery pierces the fascia iliaca, and runs for some way be- tween it and Poupart’s ligament (corresponding with the line of insertion of that membrane), but opposite the supe- rior spinous process of the ileum, it gets between the trans- versalis and internal oblique muscle, to which it is finally distributed. It sends off, a, Some slight twdgs, which pierce the muscles, and along the groin anastomose with the superficial circumflexa ilei, which comes from the femoral artery : b, several smaller branches, which pass inwards on the iliacus muscle, and anastomose with the ileo- lumbar artery; c, its terminal branches, which in the substance of the abdominal muscles communicate with the lumbar arteries on the one hand, and the epigastric on the other.