ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 428 axilla, and thence drawn down to the middle of the space between the condyles of the humerus. This indicates the course of the brachial artery. It should barely divide the skin, care being taken not to injure the fascia. It will be found convenient to bound it below by a transverse incision ; after which the skin may be cau- tiously raised from the fascia all round the arm. In order to ex- pose the deltoid, it will be necessary to make an incision through the integument, commencing at the external third of the clavicle, and extended along the acromion and spine of the scapula; after which it may be dissected off the muscle, proceeding from above downwards and outwards, until the whole flap of skin is removed. When the muscle has been examined, it may be easily detached from its origin, and reflected down on the arm, by inserting the scalpel under its posterior border, and cutting from within out- wards, close along the margin of the spine of the scapula, and so successively along the acromion and clavicle. This will expose the circumflex vessels, and the external rotator muscles. The fascia of the arm may in the next place be divided, and re- flected in the same way as the integument. In doing so, care should he taken not to injure the internal cutaneous nerve. As the fascia is being reflected, the biceps muscle and the brachial artery and the nerves, except the circumflex and spiral, are brought into view. Their relative position, particularly at the head of the arm, should be attentively considered. If the arm be rotated outward, the direction of the spiral nerve and profunda can easily be traced, for some way, between the heads of the tri- ceps. At the outer side of the arm, the nerve will be found in the deep sulcus between the brachialis anticus and supinator lon- gus, after it has made its turn behind the humerus. The external cutaneous nerve also has to reach the external side of the arm, but it runs in front of the humerus, piercing the coraco-brachialis, and lying between the biceps and brachialis anticus. The exami- nation of the triceps had better be conducted from below upwards, following the plan adopted in the description given of it. And, when its three heads have been carefully traced out, a longitudi- nal incision may be made through the substance of the muscle; after which, when the two parts are drawn back, the manner in which the fleshy fibres proceed to the bone, from its tendon or aponeurosis, will be distinctly seen.