LINEA ALBA LINEAR SEMI-LUNARES. 197 column. It consists of three lamellae, which are united to- gether at the posterior termination of the fleshy part of the transversalis, from which point the anterior one is continued in front of the quadratus lumborum, and is inserted into the roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar verte- brae, the middle one passes behind that muscle to be at- tached to the apices of these processes, and the posterior becomes joined to a similar prolongation from the internal oblique, and both are connected to the spinous processes, through the medium of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. The anterior lamella is immediately subjacent to the peri - toneum, and terminates inferiorly at the crista ilei, and su- periorly is extended between the last rib and the body of the first lumbar vertebrae, forming the ligcimentum arcua- tum, which shall be described more particularly with the diaphragm. 210. Along the fore part of the abdomen, some linear impressions are traced, which require a special notice, viz. the linea alba, lineae semi-lunares, and transversae. The linea alba may be considered as a tendinous cord formed by the juncture of the aponeuroses of the abdomi- nal muscles, and extended perpendicularly downwards from the ensiform cartilage to the pubis. It is covered in front by the common integument; posteriorly, it rests on the fascia transversalis, which separates it from the peritonaeum, and on each side it is enclosed by the recti muscles ; it is therefore broader above than below, as these muscles di- verge from one another in the former situation. In the middle of the linea alba is situated the umbilicus, which in the foetal state is a foramen for the transmission of the um- bilical vein and arteries, but afterwards becomes oblite- rated. 211. The linece semi-lunares are two curved lines ex- tending from the cartilages of the eighth rib, on each side, to the tuberosity of the pubis. They thus cor- respond with the external borders of the recti muscles, (the