THE EYE—VITREOUS HUMOUR. G79 apex of which is at the point of division of the membrane, the base at the margin of the lens; and as this is continued all round, it forms a canal, named the canal of Petit. When distended with air, which can be easily done by puncturing it, and inserting the point of a blowpipe, it presents the appearance of a chain of minute vesicles disposed round the lens, communicating freely, inasmuch as the air passes from one to the other. The capsule of the lens receives a minute branch from the arteria centralis retinae, which ramifies on its posterior segment, but none of its branches have ever been found to extend to the substance of the lens. The lens has been supposed to be muscular in its structure, and thereby to possess the power of altering its form, so as to adapt the eye to the different distances within which distinct vision obtains. This opinion was first promulgated by Dr. Pem- berton*, in a thesis written at Leyden. Dr. Young-f- brought it forward again some years ago, and several physiologists have as- sented to it. Chemical analysis, however, has long since shewn that the lens consists of pure albumen, some gelatine, and water, without the slightest admixture of fibrine, the essential constituent of muscle. Moreover, were it muscular, it must consist of fibres of some sort; and were these ever so minute, or so fine, the density of the points corresponding with the fibres must be greater than that of the intervals, for intervals there must be where there are striae, or lines, and to suppose a muscle without lines and inter- vals, is to suppose what has not yet been seen in nature. Were such a structure as this made a medium for the transmission of light, the rays must be dispersed and resolved into their primitive or prismatic rays, producing of necessity a coloration of the image and indistinctness of vision. The remarks and the experiment above cited, to shew that the cornea must be homogeneous, ap- ply with equal force to the structure of the lens. 719. The vitreous humour (corpus vitreum, humor vitreus) fills up the posterior two-thirds of the globe of the eye. It con- sists of gelatinous transparent fluid, enclosed in a fine mem- brane (hyaloid membrane'), which not only invests it externally, but * Haller, Disputationes Anatomica, tom. vii. i Phil. Trans. 1809.