JEJUNUM AND ILEUM. 505 In its course it will be observed to curve on itself, so as to describe a considerable portion of a circle, for having com- menced at the pylorus, it ends at the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and is divisible into three portions, each presenting some circumstances deserving of notice. The first inclines upwards, and to the right side, so as to touch the gall-bladder, and soon after death becomes tinged yel- low by the bile. At this point the intestine turns on itself, and descends perpendicularly in front of the right kidney as far as the third lumbar vertebra, where it again alters its direction, passing across the spine, ascending a little, so as to end at the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, where it is continuous with the jejunum. The ascending portion is covered by peritonaeum in the same way as the stomach is, the descending part is covered by it only on its anterior surface, whilst the transverse part has no immediate serous investment, as it merely lies in the divergence of the two layers of the transverse meso-colon. Its muscular coat is thick, the circular fibres being more strongly marked than the longitudinal. The internal presents a great number of transverse folds, called valvulce conniventes. At the angle of union formed by the descending and transverse parts of the intestine, will be observed a small papilla, marking the orifice of the biliary and pancreatic ducts, which open at that point. The superior mesenteric artery lies upon its transverse part, and the head of the pancreas is received within its curve. 562. The jejunum and ileum are so called, the former from being usually found empty after death, the latter from its position in the fossae of that name. They occupy the interval from the duodenum to the ileo-colic valve, two- thirds being assigned to the jejunum, the remainder to the ileum. The diameter of the tube diminishes gradually as it approaches the latter point. The coats of the jejunum are thicker than those of the ileum, but they are similar in every other respect; the serous coat is derived from the