HERNIA DIRECT,—OPERATION. 34 i ed that this vessel lies to the inside of the neck of the tu- mour, in cases of oblique inguinal hernia, and, on the out- side, in the direct hernia. If the diagnosis, in a given case, were so clear as to leave no room for doubting whether the descent was oblique or direct, the position of the artery would at once be determined with regard to the neck of the tumour, and the direction in which the stricture should be divided may be indicated with certainty. In the oblique form, the artery may be effectually avoided by cutting out- wards ;—in the direct, by inclining the incision inwards ; and in recent cases doubts seldom arise on the question. But when a hernia has been of long standing, the weight of the tumour, by drawing on its neck, and therefore on the inter- nal ring, approximates it to the external one, by which means it occupies the situation of a direct hernia. If on examination such a case were pronounced to be a direct descent, and if, on such an assumption, the incision were made inwards, the artery must be divided. Such an occur- rence can only be avoided by adopting the precept laid down by Sir Astley Cooper, viz. of cutting upwards in all cases of inguinal hernia, whether they be direct or oblique. 344. In cases of direct inguinal hernia, the coverings of the sack are the skin and superficial fascia, the fascia of the cord, the conjoined fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis (if they be not ruptured), together with the fascia transversalis. The cremaster muscle forms only a partial covering, near the external ring, for there the cord and the tumour come into contact; but they instantly di- verge, one passing upwards into the abdomen, the other outwards in the course of the canal. The division of the different structures above enumerated is to be conducted on the same principle as in the oblique descent, but with a degree of caution the more, as the tumour has a covering the less. 345. When a portion of intestine passes into the crural ring it necessarily pushes before it that part of the perito-