482 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The internal mammary and superior intercostal arteries pro- ceed down into the thorax; the inferior thyroid, and the vertebral pass up to the forepart of the neck ; the profunda cervicis di- rectly backwards, to its posterior aspect, whilst the supra-scapular and posterior-scapular pass transversely outwards, to ramify— the former on the dorsum scapulae, the latter along its posterior border. 536. 1. Mammaria interna turns forwards from the subclavian to reach the inner surface of the first rib, and then descends be- tween the costal cartilages and the pleura, as far as that of the seventh rib. At this point it divides into two branches, one of which inclines outwards, along the margin of the thorax, the other continues in the direction of the vessel, down into the ab- domen. Its branches, including the two just alluded to, are as follows: a. Comes nervi phrenici is a very small branch, which joins the phrenic nerve, where it passes over the mammary artery, or a little lower, and accompanies it to the diaphragm, to which its ramusculi are distributed, anastomosing with the phrenic branch of the aorta, b. Several small branches (mediastince) pass inwards to the cellular tissue in the anterior mediastinum, and also some to the anterior part of the pericardium. c. The external branches (intercostales anteriores) pass outwards, at each intercostal space, between the pleura and intercostal muscles, then between the two layers of the latter, and inosculate with the vessels of the same name, derived from the aorta, main- taining communications at the same time with the thoracic branches of the axillary artery. d. — Musculo phrenica is the external division of the mammary artery. It inclines outwards, in the direction of the cartilages of the false ribs, sending branches, backwards into the diaphragm, and downwards to the abdominal muscles, whilst others pass out- wards, in the intercostal spaces, being disposed in the same way as those that come from the mammary itself. e. —Epigastrica superior continues in the direction of the mam- mary artery, descending between the rectus abdominis and the peritonaeum, ramifying freely in the muscles, and anastomosing with the inferior epigastric, which comes up from the iliac artery. 537. 2. Intercostalis superior turns backwards, immediately after its origin, from the posterior aspect of the subclavian, and