PECULIARITIES OF THE HUMAN SKELETON. 139 neath the trunk, so as to give it a steady support. The sternum is elongated in these animals, and the ribs pass from the spine to that bone so directly without making any angle, that they ap- proach near to the crista of the ilea, and thereby increase the ex- tent of firm support necessary to sustain the weight of the viscera. Even with these advantages the muscles of the abdomen would be inadequate to the support of its contents, were they not assisted by a layer of elastic substance, which is placed over their entire extent, and which of itself marks their destination for the prone position. Though the upper and lower extremities present several points of similitude, they yet may be contrasted so as to shew that they are adapted to totally different purposes. It is quite obvious that the scapula and os innominatum, the humerus, and the femur, the bones of the fore-arm and those of the leg, the hand and the foot, are respectively constructed on the same plan ; but the diffe- rences which they present indicate a difference of function. The scapulae placed on the supero-posterior part of the trunk, are borne off by the clavicles; their glenoid cavities are directed forwards and outwards, so that the arms, which are as it were ap- pended to them, are fitted to enjoy a considerable degree of mo- tion in the anterior and lateral directions. But in true quadrupeds the glenoid cavities look directly downwards, and are approximated closely together, so that the thoracic limbs which are articulated with them, project downwards beneath the fore part of the trunk; and as they are thus calculated to support its weight, they possess little lateral motion. The glenoid cavity in man is quite shallow, so that the globular head of the humerus is merely applied to its surface ; but the acetabulum is a deep cup-like cavity, indicating a quite different destination in the two joints. The breadth of the articular surfaces of the knee-joint, and the peculiar conformation of the ankle-joint, as contrasted with the elbow and wrist, are abundantly sufficient to shew that fixity and strength have been designed in the one, mobility in the other. This difference is, if possible, more strongly marked in the conformation of the hand and foot, the latter, as has been already observed, being intended to support the body, is placecfat right angles beneath the leg, the former is continuous with the line of direction of the fore-arm, otherwise it could not be guided with sufficient precision to the