208 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. them erect upon the thighs. If this action be continued, the trunk may be bent forwards as in bowing. It is scarcely neces- sary to add, that this bending of the body will be directly forwards, if the muscles of opposite sides act together, and obliquely to one side, if they act separately. 225. The tensor vaginae femoris (ilio-aponevrosifemoral, Chauss.; Dumas) is situated at the superior and external part of the thigh. Form—elongated and flat, broader at the lower than at the upper extremity. It arises from the external surface of the anterior superior spinous process of the ileum, between the gluteus medius and sartorius, and terminates about two inches below the great trochanter of the femur, its fleshy fibres being received between two la- minae of the fascia lata, into which they are thus inserted. Direction—downwards and outwards: structure—aponeu- rotic in its origin, fleshy in the rest of its extent: relations— its external surface is covered by a layer of the fascia la- ta; the internal is also embraced by another process of the same membrane, which separates it from the rectus fe- moris and the vastus extevnus. Action.—As its name imports, the direct action of the muscle is to render the fascia tense, and so assist the other muscles. If this effort be farther continued, the obliquity of its direction will enable it to rotate the whole limb inwards, provided the other mus- cles remain quiescent; if the extensor muscles conspire to keep the limb in the straight position, the tensor can only act as an assistant to the abductors. In the erect position, by taking its fixed point below, it will act on the pelvis. Muscles on the 'posterior pari of the Pelvis. 226. The gluteus maximus (sacro femoral, Chauss.; ilii- sacrofemoral, Dumas) is situated at the nates, the promi- nence of which it forms. Form—broad, thick, and irregu- larly quadrilateral. It arises, 1, from the posterior fifth of the crista of the ileum, and the irregular rough surface subjacent to that part; 2, from the posterior surface of the sacrum below the ileum, and from the side of the coccyx in