ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 410 beneath the two first extensors of the thumb. It then runs forwards for a short way (lying in the angular interval be- tween the tendons of the two first extensors of the thumb, and that of the third) to gain the angle between the two first metacarpal bones, and makes its final turn into the palm of the hand, by passing between the heads of the abductor indicis muscle. The terminal part of the artery (iarcus volaris profundus) runs transversely across the palm of the hand, lying on the heads of the interossei muscles, and the carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones of the fingers, and opposite the fourth bone of that name ceases, by inosculating with the communicating branch from the ulnar, which completes the deep palmar arch. This dif- fers from the superficial arch, not only in being more deeply seated (being covered by all the flexor tendons and the lumbricales) but also in retaining its size almost undimi- nished, and lying nearer the carpus. The radial artery gives off the following branches: a. The recurrent branch arches upwards from the artery soon after its origin, running between the branches of the spiral nerve. It lies on the supinator brevis, covered by the supinator longus, and opposite the external condyle anastomoses with the terminal branches of the superior profunda, having in its course given ra- musculi to the flexor and supinator muscles. b. Several un-named branches are given to the muscles on the fore part of the arm. c. The superjicialis voice proceeds directly forwards from the artery, where it turns tow-ards the back of the hand, and seems like the proper continuation of that vessel in direction, though not in size, as it is usually small and tapering. In this respect, how- ever, it is subject to many varieties. This branch runs over the small muscles of the thumb at their origin, lying upon the annu- lar ligament, to which it is bound down by a thin process of fascia, and terminates by inoscxdating with the radial extremity of the superficial palmar arch, wdiich it thus completes. d. The dorsal branches of the thumb (rami dorsales pollicis) are two, which sometimes arise separately, at others, by a common