554 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. bladder; rrjuvw, to cut,) as well as to catheterism. By the term perinaeum is understood the triangular interval included between the rami of the pubis and ischia, its apex corresponding with the arch of the pubis, and its base with a line extended from one tuber ischii to the other. When viewed externally, this re- stricted space is observed to be divided into two equal parts, by a continuation of that vertical line which indicates the original di- vision of the body into two symmetrical halves, and which here, as elsewhere, is called the raphe. From a little below the fold of the scrotum, an incision may be made through the skin along the raphe, down to the margin of the anus. At its upper extremity, a transverse incision maybe made, extending outwards, on the thighs, at each side, for two inches. The flaps of inte- gument may, in the next place, be reflected outwards to the flexures of the thighs, and pinned back. By raising the integu- ment round the anus, the sphincter muscle will be exposed. The superficial fascia, which is, in fact, nothing more than the sub-cutaneous cellular tissue, having been exposed, its attachments and mode of distribution deserve attention. If it. be divided along the middle line, and carefully reflected to each side, it will be found firmly attached to the rami of the ischia and pubis. If traced upwards, or if air, or a jet of water be passed beneath it, it will be found to be continuous with the sub-cutaneous investment of the scrotum; viz. the dartos, and also with the superficial fascia of the abdomen. A little below the transversus perinaei muscle the superficial fascia will be observed to pass back, and become identified with the deep-seated fascia, after which both may be traced beneath the superficial sphincter. When extravasation of urine takes place into the perinaeum, the attachments of this fascia will influence the direction in which the fluid proceeds, should its quantity increase. Though its natural tendency is backwards to the anus, or downwards along the inside of the thighs, its progress in these directions is interrupted by the adhesion of the membrane to the rami of the ischia and pubis at each side, and to the deep fascia posteriorly ; but towards the scrotum, no impediment exists, and so we find that effusions gradually make way upwards to the groin, or even on the front of the abdomen, their progress being preceded by a red erysipelatous blush on the skin. The super-