388 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. jects beyond it. It arises lower down than the supinator longus, from the external condyloid ridge, and part of the condyle, as well as from the inter-muscular septum. After passing along the outside of the articulation, it ends, at the upper third of the arm, in rather a broad, flat tendon, which descends along the outer and back part of the radius, passes, conjointly with the following muscle, in a groove in the lower extremity of that bone, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger. The fleshy part of the muscle lies between the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis brevior, but is concealed only in part by them; its tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and the posterior annular ligament of the wrist. 396. The extensor carpi radialis brevior lies along the posterior and external aspect of the radius. It arises from the extremity of the outer condyle of the humerus, and from the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint. The fleshy belly, lying behind the preceding muscle, ends in a flat tendon, which remains closely applied to that of the latter, and with it proceeds in the groove in the radius, and under the annular ligament, where it diverges somewhat, in order to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. 397. The supinator radii brevis is a short triangular muscle lying in close contact with the bones, and extended obliquely from the outer condyle of the humerus over the upper third of the radius. It arises, by a short tendon, from the external condyle, and from the external lateral ligament, as far as its insertion into the annular ligament of the radius, also from a rough ridge on the back part of the ulna, and, in the interval between the bones, from a slight band of tendinous fibres stretched from the ridge just mentioned to the condyle. The fibres of the muscle, from these points of attachment, pass obliquely over the head and upper part of the radius, and are inserted into the oblique ridge, that leads from the tubercle of that bone