ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 324, cord, it receives the name of fascia of the cord, or fascia spermatica. This thin fascia may be detached from the cord, so as to exhibit clearly the margins of the pillars, by holding the cord forwards, and lightly drawing the edge of the scalpel all round it, so as to divide the fascia, after which it can be readily pushed upwards. 333. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle may, in the next place, be divided by an incision carried horizontally inwards from the anterior superior spine of the ileum, to the linea alba, from the termination of which ano- ther should be drawn down to the pubes. The angular flap thus included may then be reflected down on the thigh, by which means the internal oblique muscle is brought into view, and also the cremaster, which is given off from its lower border, and thence prolonged upon the cord, with which it passes through the opening in the external oblique muscle. The cord lying undisturbed in its situation; will be observed to rest, (so far as it is exposed by reflecting the external oblique) upon the fibres of the internal oblique, after having passed beneath its lower border. For the same extent it is covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and inferiorly it is supported by the groove formed by the lower fibres of the latter, as they turn obliquely backwards and inwards to reach their second and third insertions. Supported in this groove to the point at which it passes through the external ring, the cord will be ob- served to incline a little outwards, after its exit, and to lie to the outside of the tuberosity of the pubis. To ex- pose the cord in the rest of its extent, it becomes necessary to detach the fibres of the internal oblique muscle from the inner surface of Poupart’s ligament, and to reflect them, to- gether with the cremaster, towards the middle line. This requires to be done with care, in order to separate them from the transversalis muscle, whose fibres in this part run in the same course, both being also inseparably united pre- viously to their insertion into the crista of the pubis. When