THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 511 other, being connected externally by cellular tissue to the sur- rounding textures, and internally presenting a moist, lubricated surface. When examined, however, in its entire extent, it will be found to differ considerably in its appearance and characters in different parts. Thus, at its upper extremity, the epidermis is prolonged upon its surface for some way, and may be traced as far as the union of the oesophagus with the stomach. The vagina also is similarly coated as far as the neck of the uterus, but the deeper seated parts appear to be protected, not by an insensible epidermis, but by the mucous secretion poured out on the sur- face. In the nasal fossae, it is thicker than elsewhere, but soft and pulpy, though closely adherent to the periosteum. In the pharynx the membrane is smooth, and with scarcely any villi on its surface, but is of a deep red colour, and evidently very vascular. In the oesophagus it is pale, thin, and thrown into longitudinal folds by the contraction of the muscular fibres, and is evidently less vascular, and studded with fewer mucous glands than in the pharynx. At the cardiac orifice, the membrane is much paler than elsewhere, but as it is prolonged into the stomach it gradually assumes a delicate rosy tinge, particularly along the splenic end and great curvature.* In the small intestines the membrane is thrown into transverse folds (valvula conniventcs) diminishing in number gradually from above downwards, and ceasing to be perceptible in the large intestines. Besides the valves observable at the interior of the tubes (viz. the ileo-colic, pylorus, velum palati, and the permanent folds, viz. the valvulm conni- ventes, and the rugae, which are only occasional and temporary), we find some minute elevations and depressions which deserve notice. In the first place, the whole surface is studded by a great number of fine villi, which have been represented as of a conical figure, the summit of each presenting a minute orifice, leading to an absorbing vessel. More recent examination has however thrown a doubt on the accuracy of the fact, as well as of the in- ference, as they appear to be at least in most parts lamellar rather than conical, and altogether destitute of pores or apertures. Pa- pilla are also generally diffused, being similar in their confor- mation to those on the surface of the tongue, but much smaller ; Yelloly, Med, Chir, Trans,