INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. (329 scends it inclines to its outer side, and finally passes in front of it as well as of the external carotid artery. The artery is supported by the rectus anticus muscle, and is crossed by the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus muscles, and the lingual nerve. Higher up, the stylo-pharyngeus and sfylo-glossus, together with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, pass also in front of it, interposed between it and the external carotid artery. On reaching the lower margin of the canal, appropriated to it in the pars petrosa of the temporal bone, the internal carotid artery ascends perpen- dicularly a little way, and then inclines forwards and in- wards, its direction being influenced by that of the osseous tube which lodges it. It soon, however, ascends somewhat to reach the posterior clinoid process, close by which it pierces the deep lamella of the dura mater, which forms the cavernous sinus, but does not enter the cavity of the latter, as it becomes invested by a reflection of its lining membrane. The artery, in the next place, passes hori- zontally forwards to the base of the anterior clinoid pro- cess, where it curves upwards, and pierces the superficial or cerebral lamella of the cavernous sinus : finally, becoming invested by the arachnoid membrane, it reaches the fissure of Silvius, in which it divides into its terminal branches. Whilst in the canal, the artery is inclosed in a plexus formed by the sympathetic nerves, and gives off a small branch, which enters the tympanum and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch of the internal maxillary. Whilst in the sinus a small twig is sent to the dura mater (me- ningea anterior). The ophthalmic artery is given off close by the anterior clinoid process : this shall be described with the parts contained within the orbit. After having pierced the inner lamella of the dura mater, the internal carotid artery gives oft' the following branches :— a. Arteria communicans posterior runs directly backwards, parallel with its fellow of the opposite side, so that they inclose