146 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. articulate, it is not necessary to mark them by any particu- lar name; in describing them they are referred to generally as articulating surfaces. Some of the articulating depres- sions have also received names taken from certain peculia- rities in their conformation. Thus the superior extremity of the ulna, which receives the trochlea of the humerus, is called the sigmoid cavity, from some resemblance to the Greek letter 2 (cny/xa, ddog, like); others are denominated from their greater or less degree of depth or shallowness. The deep cup-shaped cavity which receives the head of the femur, is called cotyloid, (from kotuXt), a cup, and eldog, like), and the shallow oval depression to which the head of the humerus is applied, receives the name of glenoid cavity (from ■yXrjvr), a cavity, and ddog, like). 96. As the extent and form of the articulating surfaces of joints, as well as their ligamentous connexions, vary in dif- ferent instances, so must their degrees of solidity and mobi- lity : and on a review of the whole of the articulations it may be laid down as a general principle that the greater their mobility, the less their solidity; or in other words, that the one is inversely as the other. All the motions, however, which are admissible in joints, may be arranged under four heads, viz. 1st, motions of angular opposition; 2nd, of circumduction; 3rd, of rotation; 4th, of gliding. Each of these deserves a separate consideration. 1st. The motion of opposition, or the angular movement, can only take place between long bones. If these be made* to move in opposite directions, as from extension to flexion, or from abduction to adduction, they form with one an- other angles varying in degree according to the extent of the motion. This in some cases, as in the elbow and knee, is confined to flexion and extension, which makes them strictly hinge-joints (ginglimus, a hinge); in others the mo- tion is general, and extends to four opposite directions, in- cluding each of the points intermediate between them, as may be observed in the shoulder, in the hip, and the meta-