CEREBRAL NERVES—NINTH PAIR. 1)59 from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and also receives a filament from the fifth. It lies at first between the rectus anticus and scalenus anticus muscles, and then on the anterior surface of the latter, over which it passes obliquely. The nerve enters the thorax between the subcla- vian artery and vein, and descends through that cavity in front of the root of the lung, and between the fibrous la- mella of the pericardium and the reflected part of the pleura. When arrived near the diaphragm the nerve divides into several branches, some of which are distributed to the substance of that muscle, others pass through it, and descend to the solar plexus, with the filaments of which they become united. This is the proper internal respira- tory nerve, and is so called to distinguish it from that long branch which descends on the serratus magnus muscle, lying on the outside of the thorax. These two nerves are alluded to in this place merely to give a connected view of the respiratory system. 694. The ninth pair of nerves (lingualis; hypo-glossus) arises by several delicate filaments placed in a continued series along the sulcus between the corpus pyramidale and olivare of each side. These filaments converge and unite as they pass forwards to the anterior condyloid fora- men, through which the nerve which they form makes its exit from the cranium. The nerve at first is deeply seated, lying posterior and internal to the sympathetic and vagus nerves, but it gradually comes forwards as it de- scends, and after passing between the carotid artery and jugular vein becomes more superficial than either of the nerves just mentioned, and lies a little below the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle. The nerve now inclines forwards and inwards, parallel with the cornu of the os hyoides, where it is separated from the lingual artery by the hyo-glossus muscle, at the inner border of which it ascends somewhat, and divides into several filaments, 2 u 2