THE DIAPHRAGM. 569 first lumbar vertebra, the fibres of each crus proceed to three different destinations. The greater number pass forwards and upwards to be inserted into the central apo- neurosis ; those placed towards the sides of the vertebra incline outwards, and terminate upon the surface of theliga- mentum arcuatum proprius; but the internal fasciculus of each passes in front of the aorta, so as to complete the canal, (hiatus aorticus) which transmits it. The fasciculi decus- sate at this point; the one from the right side is the larger, but is concealed by that from the left, which lies in front of it. After their decussation the fasciculi are continued ob- liquely upwards, forming the margins of the opening for the oesophagus (foramen cesophageum), and are ultimately inserted into the central aponeurosis. The oesophggean opening is narrow and elliptical in its form, its greatest diameter being from before backwards, and about an inch and a half or two inches in length. It lies a little to the left of, and anterior to, the aortic opening, and transmits the oesophagus with both the vagus nerves. The aortic opening corresponds with the middle line, and gives passage to the aorta, thoracic duct, and also, in most in- stances, to the vena azygos. The opening for the vena cava lies before and to the right of that for the aorta. Actions.—The diaphragm is of an arched form, the concavity of the arch looking down into the abdomen. When its fibres contract, the muscle descends, and becomes an inclined plane, whose direction is downwards and forwards. By these means the abdominal viscera are pressed against the lower and forepart of the parietes of the cavity, so that the capacity of the abdomen is diminished in proportion as the thorax is enlarged. Should the abdominal muscles and the diaphragm be both brought into action together, the viscera will be compressed between them, and forced towards the lower part of the cavity, as occurs in the ex- pulsive efforts of accouchement, &c.