ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 422 alis anticus. At the bend of the elbow the nerve sinks deeply into the interval between the flexor and extensor muscles, and passes between the two heads of the pronator teres, and beneath the upper border of the flexor sublimis. Continuing its course along the fore-arm, the nerve lies be- tween the muscle last named and the flexor profundus, with which it passes beneath the annular ligament of the wrist, and so reaches the palm of the hand, where it divides into five branches. a. The first digital branch proceeds outwards and for- wards, lying upon the adductor and short flexor of the thumb, to both of which it gives filaments. It thus reaches the radial border of the thumb, and passes along its pha- langes to their extremity. b. The second branch is also intended for the thumb, being placed parallel with the preceding at its ulnar margin. c. The third, larger than the preceding, sometimes forms, at its commencement, a common trunk with them. It pro- ceeds directly forwards, giving some filaments to the ab- ductor indicis, and, finally, runs along the radial border of the phalanges of that finger. d. The fourth branch, still larger, corresponds in its course with the second metacarpal space, where it gives some ramusculi to the interosseous muscles, ^nd, finally, di- vides into two collateral branches of equal size, which supply the adjacent borders of the fore and middle fingers. e. The fifth digital branch lies in the third metacarpal space, where it communicates by a transverse slip with the ulnar nerve (its second digital branch). Like the fourth it divides into two branches, which are placed along the con- tiguous margins of the middle and ring fingers. The branches given by the median nerve in the arm are very few, and so small as scarcely to deserve notice. But, in the fore-arm, several branches proceed to the flexor and pronator muscles, beneath which it lies, as well as to the flexor profundus, on which it is supported. The most re-