148 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. ous surfaces of every moveable articulation admit a certain degree of gliding motion upon one another, so that it may be regarded as common to all; but in some cases it is the only one which takes place, for instance, between the dif- ferent bones of the carpus and tarsus. We thus observe that some joints admit of all these motions, some are de- prived of rotation, retaining the rest, whilst in others nothing more than a mere gliding can take place between the surfaces, so that a regular gradation is established in their degrees of mobility between the most moveable, and those which are least so. The shoulder-joint admits of the greatest extent and variety of movement; those be- tween the carpal and tarsal bones are exceedingly limited in these particulars; and finally, between the latter, and those which are altogether immoveable, an intermediate grade may be traced, for instance in the pubic symphysis. 97. There are but two articulations in which all the motions of opposition, circumduction, and rotation, can be perform- ed, namely, the hip and shoulder joints. In these a con- vex is applied to a concave surface, the former being hemi- spherical, which is essentially necessary to such a freedom of motion. As joints constructed on this principle are more liable to displacement than any others, their security is in a great measure provided for by their being placed at the superior or central extremity of the limb, by which they are withdrawn from the influence of external forces. This arrangement is made subservient, not to the security of the joint solely, but also to a very important purpose in the functions of the limb. For, as these free and extended motions are performed in the superior articulation, their effect is communicated to the whole limb, so as to compen- sate for the more restricted movements in the lower joints. 98. Though all the motions abovementioned take place in the hip and shoulder joints, each of them considered singly is not performed with equal facility in both. Thus, circumduction is executed with greater ease in the shoulder