467 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. vessel on the right side commences opposite the sterno- clavicular articulation, being the point at which the inno- minata divides into the carotid and subclavian arteries, whilst that of the left arises from the arch of the aorta, and is necessarily longer, and at first more deeply seated. We shall here describe the cervical portion of each, and the description of one will very nearly suffice for both. 518. The common carotid artery (carotis communis tel primitica) ascends obliquely upwards and outwards, its direction coinciding with that of a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Opposite the upper border of the thryoid cartilage, the vessel divides into two great branches, of which one is distributed by its ramifica- tions to the cranium and face, the other to the brain and eye ; hence, from their destination, they are named the external and internal carotid arteries. The common caro- tid artery may be said to correspond with the vertebral column, being supported by the longus colli, and rectus anticus major. The inner side of the artery is in appo- sition below with the trachea, higher up with the larynx and thyroid gland, and finally, with the pharynx. Along its external side run the jugular vein and the nervus vagus, the latter being behind and between both vessels; whilst in front, it is covered, below, by the skin and fascia, also by the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyro'id muscles, and crossed by the omo-hyoideus opposite the upper rings of the trachea. But from this point to its bifurcation, the vessel is covered only by the skin, platisma and fascia, owing to the fact that the sterno-mastoid and omo-hyoideus, by diverging to their respective destinations, cease to cover it, and so leave it comparatively superficial. The artery will be found enclosed in a sheath, composed of condensed cellular membrane, which forms an investment common to it, the internal jugular vein, and the nerves vagus. The descendens noni nerve usually rests on the 2 h 2