ELEMENT-S OF ANATOMY. 310 may be severed from its superior attachment, and drawn down- wards on the femur. In doing this, its posterior surface will be observed to be connected to the adductor magnus for half an inch before their fibres reach the bone. The pectineus, lying to the outer side of the adductor, may in the next place be examined, and reflected after the same manner, which will bring into view the adductor brevis and the obturator externus. Whilst these measures are being executed, both surfaces of each muscle should be dissected, or, in other words, all the cellular tissue connected with them, should be removed by successive strokes of the knife, the edge being carried in the course of the fibres; and when their attachments, external conformation, and structure, have been thus fully made out, each of them may be again restored to its place, that their mutual relations and bearings may be re-considered. It is usual to direct that muscles, more especially the long ones, should be divided in the centre, and the two portions reflected. But if this precept be followed, it will be observed that students seldom examine, with any degree of accuracy, the points of attach- ment of muscles, without a precise knowledge of which, it is quite impossible to reason correctly on their action and uses. When a student is performing the dissection of the limb for the first time, it may be well if he confined his attention to the muscles, observ- ing merely the general outline of the vessels and their branches, after which they may all be dissected away, in order to obtain an uninterrupted view of the muscles in their whole extent. 3. Dissection of the posterior muscles. The subject being placed in the prone position, and the abdomen supported on a high block, the foot should be rotated inwards, in order to put the gluteus on the stretch. An incision may be made through the skin, from the coccyx obliquely upwards over the side of the sacrum and poste- rior spine of the ileum, and as high as its crista. Another should run along the fold of the nates from the same point. The flap, thus included, should be dissected cleanly off the muscle in the course of its fibres, that is to say, downwards and outwards. The remainder of the skin which covers the pelvis, may be reflected upwards and outwards, the fascia serving as a guide. This will expose the tensor vaginae and gluteus medius. The rest of the latter can be seen only when the gluteus maximus is detached. To effect this, let its lower border be drawn a little forwards, and