311 THE FASCIA OF THE LEG. the scalpel inserted beneath it, so as to raise it from the sciatic li- gament, and so successively from the side of the coccyx, sacrum, and ileum, proceeding from below upwards. When the muscle is detached, and turned down on the femur, the external rotators and gluteus medius come into view, and require little further dis- section. As the gluteus medius covers the third muscle of that name, the easiest mode of reflecting it, is by cutting through its tendinous insertion, and drawing it upwards. The external rota- tors should be attentively examined, more particularly the two obturator muscles. The internal one cannot be fully seen until the pelvis is divided ; but the direction of its two parts, and the peculiar appearance presented by its tendon, where it slides over the ischium, can be observed by cutting it across near its inser- tion, and reflecting it outwards. The origin of the flexors from the tuber ischii may be readily defined, and when their respective insertions are made out, that of the semi-membranosus should be particularly attended to, as it is attached to three distinct points. To gain a clear view of these the muscle may be cut across in the ham, and drawn down, when, by holding it tense, one set of fibres will be observed to pass along the inner tuberosity of the tibia, an- other obliquely behind the joint, whilst the third goes perpendicu- larly downwards, which, after being attached to the posterior sur- face of the tuberosity of the tibia, sends a dense fascia over the popliteus muscle, which is ultimately continuous with the deep fascia of the leg. 324. 2. The fascia of the leg. The lower part of the limb, from the knee to the ankle, is encased by a mem- brane similar in structure and use to that of the thigh. Posteriorly it is continuous with that part of the latter which covers the popliteal space, externally it contracts a firm adherence to the head of the fibula, where it is strengthened by additional fibres, sent down by the biceps muscle; and internally it receives an expansion from the sartorius. If traced down from these different points, the fascia will be found to invest the muscles, and also to send processes inwards between them, more particularly between the extensor communis and tibialis anticus in front, and on