THE VERTEBRAE. 51 brae, but as each class presents peculiar characters, which distinguish those included within it from others, and as there are peculiarities which mark certain individuals of each class, it becomes necessary to examine them more in detail. a. The cervical vertebrce are seven in number ; the size of their body and processes is less than that of the corre- sponding parts in the dorsal and lumbar class. The body, elongated transversely, is thicker anteriorly than poste- riorly, and on the sides than in the middle. It is concave on the superior, and somewhat convex on the inferior sur- face. The spinous process is short, projects horizontally backwards, and is bifid at its extremity. The arches are narrower and longer than in the other regions, the trans- verse processes short, and bifid at their extremities, present a groove superiorly for the transmission of the nerves, and at their base are pierced by a foramen, through which passes the vertebral artery. The superior articular processes are flat, and look backwards and upwards, the inferior down- wards and forwards. The vertebral foramen is of a trian- gular form, and larger proportionally than in the other classes ; the inferior grooves for the transmission of the nerves and vessels are deeper and larger than the superior. b. The dorsal vertebrce, twelve in number, are interme- diate in size as well as in situation, between the cervical and lumbar. The depth of the body taken from before back- wards, is greater than its breadth from side to side. It is convex, and prominent on the anterior surface, flat and plane on the superior and inferior. At each side may be observed a slight notch in the superior as well as in the in- ferior border ; these, when the vertebra is placed in appo- sition with the adjacent ones, form oval depressions for the reception of the heads of the corresponding ribs. The spi- nous processes, elongated and triangular, are directed down- wards and terminate in a tubercle. The arches are broad and thick; the transverse processes are long, and inclined e 2