THE ELBOW JOINT. 165 one, and invests the articular surfaces of the radius and ulna, and is extended over them until it comes in apposition with the posterior part of the fibrous capsule, by which it is guided to the extremity of the humerus. Besides these reflexions, the membrane forms two pouches, one by being prolonged into the lesser sigmoid cavity, the other where it passes between the annular ligament and the contiguous surface of the head of the radius. When the joint is laid open and the bones extended, it will be observed that the head of the radius is not in con- tact with the tuberosity of the humerus. On which account in the extended state of the limb, the rotatory motions of this bone are performed with much less ease than in that of flexion, from its wanting support superiorly. The tubero- sity of the humerus is moreover covered with cartilage only on its anterior aspect, indicating that the radius moves on it only when in the flexed position. The interval between the radius and ulna in the fore- arm, is filled up by an interosseous ligament, and a round ligament, which serve to connect them together. 134. The interosseous ligament (membrana interossca) is a thin, flat, fibrous, membrane, the direction of its fibres being obliquely downwards and inwards, from the inner sharp border of the radius, to the contiguous one of the ulna. It does not reach the whole length of the bones, as it com- mences about an inch below the tubercle of the radius. The surfaces of this membrane are intimately connected with the deep seated muscles of the fore-arm, serving to extend their points of origin as well as to connect the bones. Inferiorly it leaves an opening for the transmission of the anterior interosseous vessels; superiorly, there is another but much larger interval, through which the posterior inter- osseous vessels pass. 135. The round ligament in some measure occupies the deficiency left by the interosseous ligament at the superior part of the arm. It is a thin narrow fasciculus of fibres, ex-