ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 200 the iliacus and sartorius muscles (the reflected tendon is covered by the gluteus minimus); by the posterior surface it is in relation with the fibrous capsule of the hip joint, and triceps extensor muscle. 214. The triceps extensor cruris {crural, Bichat; tri-fe- moro-rotulien, Chauss.; tri-femoro-tibi-rotulien, Dumas) encircles all the body of the femur, except the linea aspera, and the spaces between its bifurcations. Superiorly, it is divided into three portions or heads, whence its name ; in- feriorly, they are attached by a common tendon to the pa- tella, which we shall consider as their common origin. This tendon, at first confounded with that of the rectus muscle, soon separates from it, and ascending a little way on the femur, gives off three processes, corresponding with the three divisions of the muscle, viz. the vastus externus, the vastus internus, and crureus; from the tendon moreover, a fascia or aponeurosis is sent down over the knee joint, which strengthens the articulation, and is inserted into the head of the tibia. Each of these parts of the triceps is usually described as a distinct muscle. 1. The vastus externus is situated on the outside of the femur, larger above and in the centre than below; its fleshy fibres arise from the outer side of the common tendon, and pass to their insertion with varying degrees of obliquity. The inferior fibres pass almost transversely outwards, to about the middle of the line, leading from the outer con- dyle of the femur to the linea aspera, those higher up are inserted into the external margin of the linea aspera and its superior bifurcation, the rest are implanted into the exter- nal surface of the bone, as far as the base of the great tro- chanter. Direction—the lower fibres are transverse, the rest oblique : structure—aponeurotic and fleshy: relations —anteriorly, with the fascia lata, posteriorly, with the fe- mur ; its external border is in apposition with the short head of the biceps and gluteus maximus ; the internal with the crureus, with whose structure it is identified. 215. 2. The vastus internus is situated on the inner side