19G ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. riving at the external border of the rectus muscle, divides into two lamellae, of which the anterior one passes in front of the rectus, together with the aponeurosis of the external oblique, whilst the other passes behind it, conjointly with that of the transversalis, becoming again united along the linea alba. This arrangement obtains from the margin of the thorax, as far as to midway between the umbilicus and the pubis, at which point all the aponeuroses pass in front of the rectus, so that the posterior part of its sheath is de- ficient in the lower third, the muscle being separated from the peritonaeum by the fascia transversalis only. The defi- ciency in the sheath here indicated, is marked by a well de- fined lunated edge, whose concavity looks downwards to- wards the pubis. 207. The pyramidalis, triangular in its form, and situat- ed close to the linea alba, arises from the crista of the pubis, and becoming narrow as it ascends, is inserted into the linea alba about midway between the umbilicus and pubis ; its internal fibres are vertical in their direction, the others more or less oblique. It is covered in front by the aponeuroses of the other muscles, and posteriorly rests on the rectus, of which it may be regarded as an accessory, its more direct action being that of a tensor to the linea alba. 208. The quadratus lumborum, (ilio-costal, Chauss.) si- tuated deeply in the lumbar region close to the vertebral column, is of an irregularly quadrilateral form. It arises from the crista of the ileum, for about one-fourth of its extent, and is inserted into the inferior border of the last rib, for about half its length, and by four tendinous points into the transverse processes of the four superior lumbar vertebrae. It is enclosed within two lamellae of the fascia lumborum, forming a sheath for it somewhat similar to that of the rectus, but not so dense or firm in its structure. 209. The fascia lumborum may be considered as a mem- branous prolongation, which passes backwards from the in- ternal oblique and transversalis muscles, to the vertebral