494 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY; which gives attachment to the buccinator and superior constrictor muscles. A large branch of the facial nerve will be found ac- companying the parotid duct. This will serve as a clue to the trunk of that nerve, by following it back through the substance of the parotid gland; and when the trunk is found, there can be no difficulty in pursuing all its branches, as they diverge from that point in three different directions over the face and side of the head. Dissection of the neck.—The head being allowed to hang over a block placed behind the neck, and the side of the latter being turned forwards, we may proceed to examine it as a surgical region. In this view it presents itself to our notice as a quadri- lateral space, bounded below, by the clavicle, above by the margin of the jaw, and a line continued back from it to the mastoid pro- cess;—before, by the median line, extended from the chin to the sternum, and behind, by another from the mastoid process to the external third of the clavicle, thereby coinciding with the border of the trapezius. The dissection may be commenced by making two incisions through the skin, corresponding with the two last- mentioned lines. Now, the whole space is divided into two triangles by the sterno-mastoid muscle, which runs diagonally through its area, each of which requires a particular examination ; for in the upper triangle, whose base corresponds with the margin of the jaw, and whose apex lies at the sternum, is lodged the carotid artery; and in the external and inferior space, the base of Which corresponds with the clavicle, the subclavian artery is placed in the situation in which it may be compressed or tied. When proceeding with the dissection, an incision may be made through the skin over the sterno-mastoid, so that the angular flaps thus marked out may be raised and reflected, one upwards over the face, the other down on the chest. This will expose the platisma in its entire extent; the direction of its fibres should be carefully considered in reference to the operation of opening the jugular vein. If the point of the lancet be directed upwards and forwards in the course of its fibres, it will merely make a fissure between them, and when withdrawn they will contract, and close over the wound in the vein, so that the operation is rendered inef- fectual, and probably an ecchymosis will be produced. But if it be directed upwards and outwards, the fibres will be cut across and