231 FLEXOR ACCESSORIUS. 255. The abductor digiti minimi {calcaneo-sous-phalan - gien dupetit orieil, Chauss.) is placed along the external bor- der of the foot. It arises from the external border and under surface of the calcaneum, immediately before its external or smaller tubercle, and from the upper surface of the process of the plantar fascia which extends from that tubercle to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The fleshy fibres end in a tendon,which after sliding along a smooth impression on the inferior surface of the head of the fifth metatarsal bone, is inserted into the external surface of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Its direction and struc- ture are here sufficiently indicated. Relations—the infe- rior surface is covered by the plantar fascia, the superior is in contact with the external head of the flexor accessorius, the Iigamentum longum plantae, and the flexor brevis digiti minimi. When these muscles are removed, a thin lamella of mem- brane will be observed, extending across from one side of the foot to the other, and binding down the second layer of muscles, consisting of the tendons of the flexor longus pollicis, those of the flexor communis, and its accessories, viz. the flexor accessorius and lumbricales. The long ten- dons will be observed to cross one another at an acute angle, that of the flexor pollicis inclining inwards, and placed on a plane superior to the tendon of the flexor com- munis, whose direction is obliquely outwards, as if towards the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. 256. The flexor accessorius is not unfrequently termed massa carnea; but its structure does not at all warrant such an appellation, as one of its origins is tendinous, and at its point of union with the flexor longus, it is for the most part tendinous. It is divided posteriorly into two heads, of which the internal or larger one arises from the sinuosity of the calcaneum, the external, flat and tendinous, arises from the plantar surface of that bone, a little before its external tubercle. These origins unite at an acute angle, and form a