BRACHIALIS ANTICUS. 379 the muscles of the fore-arm, and is inserted into the poste- rior part of the tubercle of the radius. Direction—vertical: structure—tendinous at its extremities, fleshy in all the rest of its extent. From the tendon of insertion a fibrous ex- pansion, presenting an arched border, is sent off, as it is about to sink between the muscles of the fore-arm. This process passes obliquely downwards and inwards, and becomes blended with the fascia of the fore-arm, some- what below the inner condyle; it is stretched across the brachial artery, median nerve, and part of the pronator teres muscle : relations—the anterior surface is overlapped superiorly for some way, by the deltoid and pectoral mus- cles ; but, in all the rest of its extent, it is subcutaneous. The posterior surface, for about half its length, rests on the humerus and shoulder joint, and in the rest, on the brachialis anticus, being separated from the latter by the external cutaneous nerve. The inner border is in contact with the coraco-brachialis, for half its length, with the bra- chial artery for the rest. 382. The brachialis anticus (burnero-cubital) lies under cover of the biceps, along the lower half of the arm. It is somewhat compressed in its form, and broader in the mid- dle than at the extremities. It arises from the fore-part of the humerus, commencing at the insertion of the deltoid, which it embraces by two angular fleshy processes, and ex- tending nearly to the border of the trochlea. Some fibres also arise from the intermuscular septa on each side. These, after passing in front of the elbow joint, end in a thick fas- ciculus of tendinous fibres, which is inserted into the rough surface on the fore-part of the coronoid process of the ulna. Direction—the middle fibres are vertical, those on each side converge a little to them: structure—tendinous at its insertion, fleshy in the rest of its extent: relations—the posterior surface rests on the bone and capsular ligament; the anterior, partly concealed by the biceps, projects some-