458 ELEMENTS 01-' ANATOMY. skin into perpendicular lines or folds, as in frowning. The ocei- pito-frontalis will, on the contrary, elevate the brow, and wrinkle the skin transversely, which actions are so frequently repeated by most persons, and so constantly by some of a particular tempera- ment, that the skin is marked permanently by lines in the situa- tions just referred to. The frontal muscle may also have its ^ixed point anteriorly, by means of its connexion with the pyramidalis nasi, so that it may draw the whole scalp alternately backwards and forwards, if both parts of it be alternately put in action. The orbicular muscle is the sphincter of the eye-lids. It closes them firmly, at the same time drawing them to the inner angle of the orbit, being its fixed point of attachment. 499. The common elevator of the lip and nose (levator labii superioris alceque nasi) lies along the side and ala of the nose, extending from the inner angle of the eye to the upper lip. It arises by a pointed process from the ascend- ing process of the superior maxilla, and as it descends se- parates into two fasciculi, one of which, much smaller than the other, being inserted into the ala of the nose, whilst the other is prolonged to the upper lip, where it is blended with its orbicular and elevator muscles. It is subcutane- ous, except at its origin, where the orbicularis palpebrarum overlaps it a little. 500. The proper elevator of the upper lip {levator labii superioris) extends from the lower border of the orbit, to the upper lip, lying close to the outer border of the pre- ceding muscle, with which it is blended inferiorly. It arises immediately above the infra-orbital foramen, where its fibres are attached, partly to the superior maxilla, partly to the malar bone. Its direction is downwards and inwards, ceasing at the upper lip, where it unites with the rest of the muscular apparatus of that part. This muscle is subcuta- neous, except at its origin, which is overlapped by the or- bicularis palpebrarum; it partly conceals the levator anguli oris. 501. The elevator of the angle of the mouth (levator an-