ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 582 The coronary arteries, two in number, are so called from the manner in which they encircle the heart. They are lodged in the sulcus between the auricles and ventricles, and send branches for their supply. Both arise immediately above the margins of the sigmoid valves. The right coronary artery inclines outwards between the right auricle and ventricle, and continues round in the sulcus, anastomosing with the left. Its most remarkable branches are two, which descend to the apex of the heart, where they anastomose with similar branches from the other coronary artery. The left coronary artery is similarly situated between the left cavities of the heart. Its largest descending branch, as it runs towards the apex, indicates the position of the septum ven- triculorum. The arteria innominata is a short but thick vessel, which extends from the highest point of the arch to the sterno-clavicular articulation of the right side, where it divides into the subclavian and carotid arteries. (Sect. 518.) Its direction is obliquely up- wards and outwards ; it rests on the trachea, is crossed by the left vena innominata, and separated from the first bone of the sternum by the origins of the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles. The left carotid artery arises close by the innominata, from which, as it ascends, it becomes separated by the breadth of the trachea. Its course has been given (Sect. 518.) The left subclavian artery arises from the transverse part of the arch, at its most depending point; it thence ascends, over- lapped by the left lung and the pleura, to reach the first rib (Sect. 534.) 634. The aorta, as has been stated, having completed its arch at the left side of the third dorsal vertebra, de- scends towards the diaphragm, assuming the name of descending or thoracic aorta. It gradually inclines from the left side of the spine towards its forepart. Its left side is in close contact with the reflected lamella of the pleura, forming the mediastinum ; on the right lie the vena azygos and the thoracic duct; whilst the oesophagus, similarly placed for some way, crosses it near the diaphragm, to