278 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. also receives a large superficial vein, viz. the saphena ma- jor. 292. The internal saphena vein (vena saphena major vel interna') runs along the inner side of the limb from the inner ankle, to within an inch and a half of Poupart’s ligament. In this course it lies quite superficial between the skin and fascia. It commences by some irregular branches, which form a sort of plexus on the inner side, and on the dorsum of the foot. From these a straight branch arises and passes upwards in front of the inner malleolus, and thence along the corresponding border of the tibia, accompanied by the internal saphenous nerve. At the knee, the vein inclines a little backwards, as it passes by the internal condyle, after which it ascends along the inner and anterior side of the thigh, and terminates in the femoral vein, after passing through an aperture in the fascia lata, which from this cir- cumstance has been termed the saphenic opening. To the same point some other superficial veins converge, viz. the superficial epigastric and pudic, the former passing down from the abdomen, between the lamellae of the superficial fascia, the latter from the groin and pubes; both open into the saphena major near its termination. The femoral vein, placed at the inner side of the artery, enters the abdomen through the crural ring, and assumes the name of external iliac vein. This vessel, lying at first on the inner side, and on the same plane with the artery of the same name, gradually inclines somewhat behind it, as it ap- proaches the sacro-iliac symphysis, where it joins the inter- nal iliac vein, to form with it the common iliac vein. Near its commencement at Poupart’s ligament, the external iliac receives the circumflexa ilei and epigastric veins. 293. The internal iliac, or hypogastric vein, returns the blood from all the parts within the pelvis, and on its exte- rior, that are supplied by the branches of the artery of the same name. These unite and form a short trunk, which joins the external iliac vein, as has been above stated.