619 THE ERAIN—OPTIC THALAMI. in front they are separated by not more than three or four lines, their posterior extremities are from an inch and a half to two inches apart, the interval being' occupied by the optic thalami, and the third ventricle. Their external surface is composed of grey substance, but internally the grey and white are intermingled, so as to produce a striated appearance, whence the name is derived. 663. The optic thalami (thalami nervorum opticorum, ganglions cerebraux posterieurs, Gall,) are placed behind and between the preceding. The upper surface of each projects into the body of the corresponding ventricle ; the inferior one forms the roof of its descending cornu, and the external is blended with the corpus striatum and the sub- stance of the hemisphere. The internal surface of each thalamus contiguous to that of the opposite side, is par- tially united to it by a soft lamella of grey substance, (com- missura mollis). On the posterior border of each thalamus are observed two slightly-raised papillae (corpus genicula- tum internum et externum), which are connected by me- dullary striae to the tubercula quadrigemina, the external one being also united to the origin of the optic nerve. The contiguous borders of the optic thalamus and corpus striatum are separated by a thin fasciculus of nervous mat- ter of a pale straw colour (taenia semicircular is); it extends from before backwards, commencing near the anterior pillar of the fornix, and ending at the corpus geniculatuin externum. Along the inner margins of the thalami two delicate white fasciculi arise, and pass backwards, converg- ing to the pineal gland, whose peduncles they form, and at the same time constitute its only bond of connexion with the substance of the brain. The pineal gland is a small mass of grey substance of a conical shape, and is some- times called conarium, from its resemblance to a fir-cone. Its base rests on the tubercula quadrigemina; it usually contains in its interior some sabulous matter. 664. The optic thalami inclose between them a narrow