THE ANNULAR LIGAMENTS. 313 reflected outwards. By this expedient the thin tendon of the plantaris will come into view, and afford a guide to its muscular belly, which may otherwise be raised with the external head of the gastrocnemius, with which it is closely in contact. The soleus may in the next place be detached, taking the inner surface of the tendo Achillis as a guide; previously to which, attention should be directed to the structure of that part of its upper border be- tween its tibial and fibular origins, which is arranged for the trans- mission of the posterior tibial vessels. The deep-seated set now become exposed, viz. the flexor communis, placed along the tibia, the flexor pollicis on the fibula, and the tibialis posticus between both, and partly concealed by them. The popliteus alone remains to be noticed, being, from its position behind the joint, excluded from the groups of muscles appertaining to the leg. From its lower border a membrane extends downwards, binding down the deep muscles, and connected on each side with the borders of the bones, and, towards the ankles, with the sheaths of the tendons; and if traced along the interval between the inner ankle and the heel, it will be found to cover the vessels, and to terminate at the internal annular ligament. 325. The fasciae of the foot consist of two parts, differ- ing in density and texture as well as in situation, one being a dense fibrous structure, placed in the sole of the foot, the other a thin membrane covering its dorsum. Previously to examining the latter, it becomes necessary to describe a band of fibres, which is strained across the bend of the ankle, and serves to bind down the tendons of the muscles. a. The anterior annular ligament is attached by one ex- tremity to the external malleolus, and to the depression on the upper surface of the calcaneum, from which points, the fibres of which it consists, pass obliquely inwards, and di- vide into two fasciculi on reaching the border of the pero- neus tertius and common extensor, one of them passing in front, the other behind the tendons of these muscles. At their inner border, the fasciculi become united again, thus forming a tube or sheath for the transmission of the ten- dons. A similar arrangement of these fasciculi obtains as