647 CEREBRAL NERVES—FIFTH PAIR. structures in which they ramify, but the latter gives the power of motion to certain muscles, and sensibility gene- rally to all the organs to which it is distributed ; hence it is a compound nerve, and its component parts can at once be recognised by drawing the plexus or ganglion forwards, which will bring into view a nervous cord that lies be- neath it on the bone, and which if traced backwards will be observed to be continuous with the anterior root of the nerve, and if followed will be found to pass through the foramen, with the third division of the ganglion, and to unite with it immediately after its exit from the skull, the mode of union being perfectly analogous to that of the an- terior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves. 682. 1. The ophthalmic nerve is the smallest of the divisions of the ganglion: it lies beneath and to the outside of the other orbital nerves, and receives, whilst lying along the outer side of the cavernous sinus, some filaments from the sympathetic. It divides into three branches, which separately pierce the dura ma- ter to enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. These branches, from their destinations, are called lachrymal, frontal, and nasal. The lachrymal branch, which is smaller than the others, and also inferior to them, passes forwards, guided by the external rectus muscle, to the lachrymal gland, to which it distributes four or five filaments, that enter at its ocular surface ; some are also prolonged to the external canthus of the eye, and ramify in the orbicular muscle and integument; one or two delicate filaments are also reflected inwards to the upper eye-lid. The lachrymal nerve, near its commencement, sends downwards one or two fila- ments, which communicate with the superior maxillary nerve, and as it proceeds forwards, one or two delicate threads are given off, which pierce the malar bone, and anastomose with the deep tem- poral branches of the facial nerve, h. The frontal, which is the largest branch of the ophthalmic nerve, inclines upwards and in- wards, to get between the levator palpebrae and the orbit, being at first closely connected with the fourth nerve. About midway between the summit and base of the orbit, it divides into two