ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 102 face is prolonged farther on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect, which allows a more free range to the motion of flexion. The second row consists of four bones, the thumb having only two pieces corresponding with those of the first and last phalanx. Smaller than the preceding set, they still resemble them in their general outline. The broader, or posterior extremity, ends in an articular surface, divided by a slight ridge, extending from before backwards, the late- ral parts being concave, for the reception of the two emi- nences on the contiguous bone ; the anterior extremity is divided into two lateral convex surfaces, which are lodged in depressions in the base of the last phalanx. The third row {jphalanges unguium, Soemm.) consists of five pieces, that of the thumb being the largest. Their form is that of a truncated pyramid, convex on the dorsal, flat on the palmar, rough at the summit, which corresponds with the points of the fingers, and at the base, for the at- tachment of ligaments and flexor tendons. The articular surface, at the base, resembles that of the base of the se- cond phalanx, in having two shallow concavities, divided by a central convex line. Attachments of Muscles.—To the carpal bones. The pisiforme gives origin to the abductor minimi digiti, and insertion to the flexor carpi ulnaris: the trapezium to the opponens and abductor pollicis : the trapezoid.es to part of the flexor brevis pollicis: the magnum to part of the same: the unciforme to the flexor parvus (minimi digiti) and to the adductor. 2. To the metacarpal bones. The first, or that of the thumb, gives insertion to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and to the opponens pollicis, and origin to part of the abduc- tor indicis : the second, or that of the fore-finger, to the flexor carpi radialis on its palmar end, and to the extensor carpi ra- dialis longior on the dorsal surface of its base, and by its lateral surfaces to the two first interossei muscles: the third, to the extensor carpi radialis brevior, to the adductor pollicis, and