MYLO-HYOIDEUS. 439 tion of the os hyoides also. For when the two flesliy parts con- tract together, they come nearly into a straight line, and thereby draw up the bone just named, by means of the connexion of the middle tendon of the muscle with its cornu. As a preparatory measure, the mouth must be closed, and the lower jaw fixed, which is one of the first steps in the process of deglutition. If the os hyoides be kept down by the sterno-hyoideus, the anterior belly of the digastricus will serve to depress the lower jaw. The stylo-glossi muscles act on the margins of the tongue, and eleva':e them ; if at the same the genio-hyo-glossi come into action, they will draw down its raph6, or middle line, and so its upper surface will be converted into a groove, fitted to convey from before backwards to the fauces, any substance required to be swallowed. Five muscles are situated in front, and above the os hyoides. 460. The mylo-hyoideus is a flat, triangular muscle, placed immediately behind the anterior belly of the digastricus; its base, or broader part, being above, the apex being be- low. It arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge, along the inner surface of the lower jaw. The posterior fibres descend obliquely, to be inserted into the base of the os hyoides, the rest proceed, with different degrees of obliquity, to join at an angle with those of the corresponding muscle, forming, with them, a sort of raphe along the middle line, from the symphysis of the jaw to the os hyoides. Its ex- ternal surface is covered by the digastricus and submax- illary gland ; the internal conceals the genio-hyoideus, and part of the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus, and also the gus- tatory nerve; its posterior border alone is free and unat- tached, and behind it, the duct of the submaxillary gland turns in its passage to the mouth. 461. The genio-hyoideus is a narrow, rounded muscle, concealed by the preceding, and lying close to the median line. It arises from the inside of the symphysis of the chin, and thence descends, (separated from the correspond- ing muscle only by a narrow, cellular interval,) to be inserted