ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 476 aponeurosis, and inclines forwards, between it and the muscle of the same name, sending branches into the latter, which commu- nicate with the deep temporal branches, whilst others extend to the external angle of the eye, where they meet some ramifications of the ramus palpebralis. Soon after its origin this vessel usually gives some twigs to the meatus externus (auriculares anteriores). e. —Temporalis frontalis, or anterior terminating branch, inclines forwards, as it ascends, and ramifies extensively over the fore- head, supplying the orbicularis and occipito-frontalis muscles, and communicating with the frontal branches of the ophthalmic artery. f. —Temporalis posterior, vel occipitalis, inclines back, on the side of the head, and seems to be the continuation of the trunk, its branches ramify freely both upward to the vertex, where they communicate with those of the corresponding vessel of the oppo- site side, and backwards, to meet those of the occipital artery. 528. 8. The internal maxillary artery is larger than the temporal, and follows a serpentine and complex course from its commencement to its termination, changing its di- rection several times. On leaving the external carotid, it inclines downwards and inwards, so as to get under cover of the ramus of the jaw, and, in the next place, proceeds inwards, between the two pterygoid muscles. Opposite the pterygoid process it ascends perpendicularly, passing between the two heads of the pterygoideus externus, and thus reaches the pterygo-maxillary fissure, where it makes its final turn, forwards becoming horizontal. Having as- sumed this direction, the artery, considerably diminished in size by having given off many branches, passes directly forwards, beneath the orbit, lodged in the infra-orbital canal, and finally emerges on the face, where it terminates by several small ramusculi. It will thus be observed, that the artery in its course is successively in relation with the ramus of the jaw, the pterygoid muscles, the pterygo-maxil- lary fissure, and the floor of the orbit. As at each of these stages of its progress it gives off branches, we may follow