312 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. the outside between the peroneal muscles. These inter- muscular septa serve to increase the number of points to which the muscles are attached; for it will be observed that their fibres ari e from them, as well as from the inner surface of the fascia for some way down the leg. The fascia is thin posteriorly over the gastrocnemius, but is dense and firm where it covers the extensors, more parti- cularly at the upper part; and will be found so firmly unit- ed along the anterior angle of the tibia, that it cannot be detached so as to be traced over its cutaneous surface. If traced along the posterior aspect of the leg, the fascia will be observed to pass over the tendo Achillis, and to be connect- ed with the malleoli on each side, and also with the fibrous sheaths which bind down the tendons passing behind them. On the inner side it joins the internal lateral ligament, ex- ternally it is continuous with the fascia covering the side of the foot, and in front becomes identified Avith the anterior fasciculus of the anterior annular ligament. Dissection of the muscles of the leg. These, to facilitate their classification, may be divided into sets, each consisting of three muscles. Thus, on the fore part of the leg, and lying between the tibia and fibula, we find the tibialis anticus, the extensor commu- nis, and extensor pollicis, which can readily be exposed by divid- ing the fascia, and dissecting it off the muscles proceeding from be- low upwards, taking the tendons as a guide. On the external side of the leg, and in close contact with the fibula, are placed the pe- roneus longus and brevis. The third muscle of this name is, in reality, a part of the extensor communis, and is separated from the others by the breadth of the fibula. It still however is described as a separate muscle, probably to keep up the ternary division. The same rule will suffice for dissecting these, as for the extensors. On the posterior part of the leg there are two sets, one superficial, the other deep-seated. The former consists of the gastrocnemius, the soleus, and plantaris. These can be exposed without any dif- ficulty, by dissecting of!'the fascia, commencing where it is conti- nuous with that covering the popliteal space ; after which the in- ternal head of the gastrocnemius may be raised, and its border