ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 202 taking their fixed point below, will act upon the femur and keep it perpendicularly on the condyles of the tibia, so as to counteract the influence of the weight of the body, which tends to flex the knee as well as the other articulations. The rectus and sartorius assist materially in maintaining the erect position of the body, for instance, when we stand on both legs, for they act on the pelvis and draw it forwards, so as to keep it fixed and upright on the femur ; in this they become assistants to the psoas and iliacus. It may be observed that the oblique direction of the sartorius enables it to give a slight rotatory motion to the pelvis, when we stand on one leg, by drawing the spinous process downwards and in- wards. 217. Thepectineus (pectinalis, Douglas; sus-pubio-fe- moral, Chauss.; pubio-femoral, Dumas) is situated at the superior and fore-part of the thigh. Form—flat and nearly triangular. It arises from the ileo-pectineal line between the eminence of the same name, and the spine of the pubis, and is inserted into the line which connects the smaller trochanter to the linea aspera of the femur, immediately below the united attachment of the psoas and iliacus mus- cles. Direction—downwards, outwards, and backwards; opposite the smaller trochanter it turns on itself, so that the anterior surface looks somewhat outwards: structure— fleshy, except at the attachments, which are aponeurotic: relations—by the anterior surface, with the fascia lata and femoral vessels ; by the posterior surface, with the obtu- rator vessels and nerves, and the external obturator and adductor brevis muscles; by the outer border with the psoas magnus, by the inner border, with the adductor lon- gUS* 218. The gracilis {droit interne crural, Bichat; sous- pubio-pretibial, Chauss.) is situated along the inner border of the thigh. Form—elongated, slender, broader at the up- per than at the lower extremity. It arises from the body of the pubis, close to its symphysis (the lower half of its depth) also from the border of its ramus, and is inserted into the