2 s THE BRAIN — ITS FORMATIVE FIBRES. G2.> become continuous with the crus cerebri. Here an additional increase is derived from their passage through the grey sub- stance lodged in the interior of the crus, after which they proceed through the inferior cerebral ganglion (thalamus ne.rvi optici), and in the next place through the superior one (corpus striatum), being successively increased and rendered still more divergent until finally they reach the anterior and middle lobes, where they are evolved into their inferior, external, and anterior convolutions. The corpus olivare contains within itself a small ganglion; its fibres pass, without any decussation, into the grey substance lodged in the cerebral protuberance, where, like the pyramids, they re- ceive additions, after which they pass into the crus cerebri, of which they form the posterior and inner part. Continuing their ascent, after being increased in the locus niger, they pass through the optic thalamus, and thence into the corpus striatum, receiving- additions as they radiate through each, and, finally, are continued upwards into the convolutions at the summit of the hemisphere, and backwards into those of the posterior lobe. Previously to entering the optic thalamus some fibres of the corpus olivare have been observed to turn inwards, so as to give to the tuber- cula quadrigemina their medullary investment, and also to unite with those of the opposite side, to form the valve of Vieussens. The diverging fibres thus traced up through their successive steps of increase, terminate in the grey substance of the convolutions : but another order of fibres may be observed quite distinct from these, and taking a different direction. These are called the converging fibres, as they commence at the peripheral termina- tions of the preceding set, and pass from without inwards to the middle line, so as to connect the lateral parts, and bring them into relation with one another ; on which account they are called commissures. The anterior and posterior commissures are formed in this way, as is also the corpus callosum ; though the greater number of the fibres which compose the latter are transverse, those towards its extremities are oblique. This is owing to the manner in which the converging fibres of the anterior lobe are constrained to pass from before backwards, and those of the pos- terior lobe from behind forwards, in order to gain the correspond- ing borders of the corpus callosum. By this arrangement a