381 TRICEPS EXTENSOR. Undivided as far as the middle of the bone. There it begins to be separated into its three heads. Of these, the poste- rior, or long head, ascends vertically, and narrows into a flat fasciculus (fleshy and tendinous) which is inserted into the lower border of the scapula, immediately behind the glenoid cavity. The internal, or short head, that is to say, the fibres which compose it, ascend along the inner margin of the humerus, and are inserted into each and every point of it, as far as the lower border of the teres major, where they end in a pointed process. Lastly, the external, or middle head, intermediate in length between the two others, proceeds along the external border of the humerus, gradu- ally diminishing in size, until it ceases also by a pointed process, just below the insertion of the teres minor, into the greater tuberosity. Direction — vertical: relations — its posterior surface is covered merely by the skin and fascia of the arm; the anterior rests against the humerus, from which it is separated, for an inch above the elbow joint, by a cellular interval, and, higher up, by the spiral nerve and profunda artery. These vessels also separate the second from the third head; and, where they pass between the former and the bone, they are protected from pressure by some tendinous fibres that arch obliquely over them. The long head is overlapped, near its insertion, by the deltoid, and is there interposed between the teres major and minor. Actions.—When the fore-arm is flexed, the triceps, by drawing on the extremity of the ulna, is enabled to extend it on the hume- rus, and so bring both parts of the limb into a right line. In si- tuation, as well as in action, it is thus the direct antagonist of the biceps and brachialis anticus. When the arm is in the extended position the long head of the triceps may assist, in some degree, the teres and latissimus in carrying it backwards. If the elbow be fixed, the scapula becomes relatively the more moveable point of attachment of the muscle, and then its long head, by acting on the lower border of that bone, can approximate it to the shaft of the humerus.