656 ELEMENTS OP ANATOMY. and consistence. As the vagus nerve continues its course along the neck, it is inclosed within the sheath of the great cervical vessels lying behind and between the carotid artery and jugular vein. When entering the thorax the nerve of the right side passes between the subclavian vein and artery, crossing the latter at right angles, and gives off a recurrent branch, which, after turning behind it, ascends by the trachea to the larynx. But at the left side the nerve descends parallel with the subclavian artery, to reach the arch of the aorta, round which the recurrent branch takes its course. After having given the recurrent branch, the vagus nerve inclines inwards and backwards, to reach the side of the trachea, where some branches are given off to form a plexus on the anterior aspect of the bronchi, and a considerable number to form another on their posterior surface (pulmonary plexus, anterior and posterior). At the lower extremity of the plexus four or five fasciculi will be observed to pass backwards to the oesophagus, where they unite into a single cord, which is the continuation of the vagus nerve. That of the left side lies rather in front of the oesophagus, that of the right be- hind it; but both are connected by filaments, sent obliquely from one to the other, so as to form a sort of mesh. Resting on the oesophagus, and closely connected with it, both these nerves enter the abdomen, through the oesopha- gean opening, and are distributed by numerous filaments to the surfaces of the stomach. 691. The branches of the vagus nerve, including those by which it terminates, are the following :— a. The pharyngeal nerve arises from the vagus nerve, imme- diately after its exit from the foramen lacerum, and inclines down- wards and inwards to the side of the pharynx, behind which it divides into two or three filaments, which, conjointly with others derived from the superior laryngeal and sympathetic nerves, form a plexus (pharyngeal) behind the middle constrictor muscle ;