ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. G26 greater number of fibres are collected to its extremities, which renders them thicker (particularly the posterior one) than any other part of its extent. Some of the inferior fibres thus traced from without inwards, instead of uniting writh the corresponding set along the middle line, become reflected downwards from the under surface of the corpus callosum to the fornix, and so form the septum lucidum. The convolutions of the posterior lobe are brought into relation with those of the middle one by means of the fornix, the fibres of which are stretched from behind forwards in such a way, that whilst its body is in a manner unattached, the extremities are identified with the parts just referred to. The formative fibres of the cerebellum are derived from the posterior pyramids, or corpora restiformia : they pass upwards and outwards, and soon meet the corpus rhomboideum, which is con- sidered as the ganglion of the cerebellum: the fibres are supposed to proceed through the grey substance of which it is composed, though it is difficult to demonstrate the fact; after which they pass outwards, diverging into the lobes of the cerebellum. The converg- ing fibres, by their union, form the crura cerebelli, and the fibres of each crus, expanding as they pass downwards and inwards, constitute by their junction the pons Varolii, which brings the late- ral lobes of the cerebellum into relation, and forms their commis- sure. The processus a cerebello ad testes bring the lobes of the cerebellum into intimate connexion with the cerebral hemispheres. The Cerebral Arteries. 668. The brain is supplied with blood by the vertebral and carotid arteries ; and the residual blood is received by veins, which run apart altogether from the arterial branches ; those within the skull pour their contents into sinuses formed in the dura maler; but those in the spine form a system by themselves, marked by several pecu- liarities. 669. 1. The vertebral artery is a principal branch of the subclavian. It enters the foramen in the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra, and ascends vertically along the canal formed by the chain of foramina in the transverse pro-