503 THE STOMACH. likened; it commences at a slight angular turn, marked by a crease or fold, and ends at a circular constricted line, which can readily be perceived at the exterior, and which, when compressed between the fingers, gives the sensation as if a cord-like ring surrounded the interior of the tube. This is the 'pylorus {vCh-o, a gate; ovgo?, a guardian), which may be compared to a sphincter muscle, being composed of circular fibres, so arranged that one circumference is identified with the wall of the stomach, whilst the other projects towards the central line of the canal, as if for the purpose of retaining the food in the stomach until it is digested. 559. The stomach is composed of three coats, connected together by two lamellae of cellular tissue, which were for- merly enumei'ated also, (particularly the one between the middle and inner coats;) and which was called the nervous tunic, from being supposed to consist of the ultimate rami- fication of the nerves. The external, or serous coat, is derived from the peritonaeum, and forms but a partial investment for this, as for other organs, inasmuch as by be- ing reflected away at its curvatures, it leaves two linear intervals there uncovered. The second, or muscular coat, consists of thin and pale fibres, placed on different planes, and pursuing different directions. The fibres subjacent to the serous membrane are disposed longitudinally, being continuous with those of the oesophagus, from which they spread out, as they proceed from the cardiac towards the pyloric orifice; the second layer of fibres is circular; but though no individual fibre can be found to extend farther than from a third to a half of the circumference of the vis- cus, yet they can sometimes constrict it towards the centre, so as to give it a sort of hour-glass contraction.* The fibres of the third order are scattered and irregular; being- found only towards the splenic end of the stomach, where they in a manner decussate with the circular fibres, which * Sir E. Home, Phil. Trans. Wilson-Philip, an the Vital Functions.-