450 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. being complete at the front and sides, but deficient poste- riorly, where it communicates with the pharynx. It is made up, 1st, of five moveable pieces, viz. the cricoid, thyroid, and arytaenoid cartilages, with the epiglottis. 2. Of the membranes and ligaments, which connect these. 3. Of muscles which move them. 4. Of vessels and nerves, and some glandular structures. 483. The cricoid cartilage, so called from its circular form (kpucoQ, a circle) surrounds the lower part of the larynx, surmounting the first ring of the trachea, (with which it forms a continuous tube,) and supporting and giv- ing fixed points of attachment to the other cartilages of the larynx, of which it may be regarded as the funda- mental part. The ring which it represents is about three times deeper behind than in front, owing to its superior border being in a manner excavated. Its external surface, behind and at the middle line, presents a perpendicular ridge, and, close at each side of it, two depressed surfaces, which give attachment to the posterior crico-arytaenoid muscles. A little farther forwards are two smooth depres- sions which articulate with the inferior cornua of the thy- roid cartilage, which are succeeded by two elevated lines for the origin of the crico-thyroid muscles. The internal surface is smooth, and merely covered by the mucous mem- brane. The superior border, by its depressed part in front, gives attachment to a membrane (crico-thyroid) which connects it with the contiguous margin of the thyroid car- tilage, also at each side to the crico-thyroid muscles. At the points at which the depression begins are two smooth surfaces, which articulate with the bases of the arytenoid cartilages. The lower border of the cartilage is somewhat curved and sharp : it is connected with the first ring of the trachea, and with the fleshy fibres of the commencement of the oesophagus. 484. The arytcenoid cartilages have been so called from some resemblance to a funnel (apvraiva, a funnel; uSoc, like).