628 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. d. spinalis anterior, smaller than the preceding, de- scends in front of the medulla oblongata, and unites with the cor- responding branch of the opposite side, immediately below the foramen magnum, so as to form one long vessel, which descends in the middle line in front of the medulla spinalis, at the extre- mity of which it passes through the nervous filaments, forming the cauda equina, and terminates at the lower part of the canal in delicate ramifications. It gives numerous branches to the spinal cord and its nerves, and communicates with the branches which enter through the intervertebral foramina. 670. The branches of the basilar artery are the fol- lowing :— a: Several ramusculi are given to the cerebral protuberance and adjacent nerves : one also accompanies the seventh pair of nerves in the labyrinth of the ear. b. Arteria cerebelli superior turns backwards and outwards round the upper margin of the pons Yarolii, to reach the superior surface of the cerebellum, upon which it ramifies freely. c. profunda cerebri is larger than the preceding, and separated from it by the third nerve : it turns round the crus ce- rebri, and inclines backwards to the posterior lobe of the cere- brum, along which it distributes numerous branches, for the supply of its substance. At the point where this vessel turns backwards, it receives the communicating artery from the internal carotid, and so contributes to form the circle of Willis. 671. 2. The internal carotid artery having commenced at the division of the common carotid (Sect. 518), oppo- site the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, inclines at first somewhat backwards and outwards, but soon turns forwards and inwards, and ascends to the base of the skull, to reach the carotid foramen. In this course the artery is accompanied by the internal jugular vein, which lies external to it, and by the vagus and sympathetic nerves, to which it is closely united by cellular tissue. The hypo- glossal nerve at first lies behind the artery; but as it de-