SCIATIC ARTERY—ANASTOMOSES OF ARTERIES. 271 tuber ischii and great trochanter, covered by the gluteus maximus. It gives off several muscular branches, to sup- ply the external rotators on which it lies, as well as the glu- teus which conceals it. Two only of its numerous branches have received names, or require a particular notice, a. An internal branch, the coccygeal (coccygea, Murray) inclines inwards, and pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and so reaches the posterior surface of the coccyx, and supplies the coccygeus and levator ani muscles, b. A descending branch (comes nervi ischiadici, Murray, Harrison) runs downwards, accompanying the sciatic nerve, and sends a long branch into its interior, which passes along with it in its course through the thigh. Besides these, some branches, after supplying the upper part of the flexor muscles, anas- tomose with the gluteal, the circumflex, and superior perfo- rating arteries. Dissection.—The internal iliac artery, and its branches, whilst within the pelvis, may be shewn merely by detaching the perito- naeum and pushing it inwards. If the pelvis be divided at the pubis and sacro-iliac symphysis, a lateral view of them can be obtained, and their course traced, by drawing the rectum and bladder to one side. Outside the pelvis they are all deeply seated, hence it becomes necessary to detach the gluteus maximus from its connexion with the sacrum, and with the sciatic ligament, and reflect it downwards. This enables us to trace, with very little dissection, the sciatic artery, and part of the gluteal; the deep branch of the latter can only be exposed by reflecting the gluteus medius in a similar manner. The muscles may be left attached to their insertions, in order that they may be restored after the dis- section is concluded, and the relations of the parts re-considered. We have made frequent mention of the anastomoses between the different branches of the arteries in the lower extremity. It now becomes necessary to take a general view of them, in order that we may understand the important influence they exert in maintaining the circulation in the limb, when the main trunk is obliterated by an operation, or by disease. It will be recollect- ed, that branches from different directions converge towards the