638 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. brane, by recurring to the relative vascularity of the struc- tures with which it is in contact. 675. The serous investment of the brain and medulla spinalis is called the arachnoid membrane, from its tenuity. It is smooth and transparent, and, like all the other mem- branes to which it belongs, forms a shut sack : one part of it invests the brain and medulla, passing over the surface without dipping into the convolutions ; the other lines the dura mater and its different processes, with which it is inseparably connected. Moreover, as the nerves and vessels pass across the intervals between their points of attachment to the cerebral substance, and those by which they escape from the cavity of the cranium, they are in- closed in tubular prolongations of the arachnoid membrane, which are continuous by one extremity with the portion investing the brain and medulla, and by the other with that which lines the dura mater. By this arrangement the con- tinuity of the membrane is maintained, at the same time that the apertures of transmission are closed. The arachnoid membrane is prolonged into the ventricles, lining them in their entire extent, and forming within them a remarkable duplicature (velum inter posit urn). By these means its arrangement is rendered as complex as that of the perito- neum ; and were we, with the same view, and on the same principle, to trace its reflections, they would be found as follows:— We shall suppose, in the first place, a vertical section of the skull and the spine to be made, so as to lay open their cavities. Com- mencing then at the vertex, we trace the membrane along the upper and under surface of the anterior lobe of the brain, and thence downwards upon the crus cerebri and pons. We then follow it on the anterior surface of the medulla spinalis down to the extremity of the cauda equina, where it is reflected upon the different nerves to the contiguous surface of the dura mater, and this it lines as far as the foramen magnum. From the foramen the membrane continues its adhesion to the dura mater, where it