666 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 701. The spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion, lies in the pterygo-maxillary fossa, close by the spheno-palatine foramen: its branches may be divided into the following sets—ascending, descending, internal, and posterior. a. The ascending' branches are two, which pass upwards, and join the superior maxillary nerve previously to its entrance into the infra-orbital canal, b. The descending branches form the pala- tine nerve, which is so called from its destination. The palatine nerve passes directly down, to reach the posterior palatine canal. In its descent it in the first place gives one or two small branches, which pass behind the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and are distributed to the velum palati. Whilst within the canal one. or two small filaments are sent off through the nasal plate of the palate bone, and ramify in the pituitary membrane. Finally, after having passed through the canal, the nerve turns forwards beneath the arch of the palate, where it divides into two branches, which ramify in the soft structures of the palate and gums. c. The internal or spheno-palatine branches, four or five in number, pass inwards through the foramen, from which they take their name, to reach the nasal fossae. Three or four of these run upon the spongy bones; the other passes obliquely downwards and forwards along the septum, and reaches the upper orifice of the posterior palatine canal, where it termi- nates in the nasopalatine ganglion. This ganglion is very small, and placed in the anterior palatine canal; it receives the branch just mentioned, and gives off one or two small filaments, which descend to the membrane of the palate, cl. The posterior branch of Meckel’s ganglion is called pterygoid, or vidian, from its passing back through the pterygoid, or Vidian canal, in the base of the process of that name. Having reached the foramen lacerum posterius, it divides into two branches, one of which in- clines downwards and outwards, and enters the carotid canal, where it terminates in the carotid plexus : the other branch enters the cranium, but does not pierce the dura mater. It runs out- wards and backwards beneath that membrane, lodged in a groove on the upper surface of the pars petrosa, and having passed through the hiatus Fallopii, reaches the aquaeductus Fallopii, where