383 FLEXOR CARPI RAD1ALIS. parated from it by the median nerve. The fleshy belly thus formed proceeds outwards and downwards, to be in- serted tendinous into the outer border of the radius about its middle. Direction—oblique from above, downwards and outwards : structure—tendinous and fleshy: relations —its anterior surface is superficial in the greater part of its extent, but towards its insertion it is crossed by the radial artery and nerve, and supinator longus muscle. Its ulnar border is in contact with the flexor carpi radialis, and pal- maris longus, the radial bounds, with the supinator longus, an angular space, in which are placed the brachial artery, the median nerve, and tendon of the biceps muscle. 387. The flexor carpi radialis is situated in front of the fore-arm, being extended from the inner condyle towards the root of the thumb : it arises from the inner condyle by the common tendon, from the fascia of the arm, and from the inter-muscular septa, placed between it and the prona- tor teres on one side, the palmaris longus on the other, and the flexor sublimis posteriorly. Its tendon passes beneath the annular ligament of the wrist, and runs through a groove in the os trapezium (to which it is bound by a thin, fibrous sheath, lined by a synovial membrane) to be in- serted into the extremity of the second metacarpal bone. Its anterior surface is covered by the fascia and integu- ment ; the posterior rests on the flexor sublimis, the flexor pollicis, pronator quadratus, and wrist joint. Its tendon lies between those of the supinator radii longus and palmaris longus. 388. lihe palmaris longus lies along the middle of the fore-arm, on the ulnar side of the preceding muscle. It arises from the inner condyle and the inter-muscular septa ; the small fleshy belly, which it presents superiorly, soon ends in a long, slender tendon, which is inserted into the annular ligament of the wrist, and the palmar fascia. When present, which is not always the case, this muscle is placed