199 SARTOR1US—RECTUS FEMORIS. Muscles of the anterior and inner part of the Thigh. 212. The sartorius (ilio-pretebial, Chauss.; ilio-creti tibial, Dumas) is situated at the anterior and inner aspect of the thigh; its form elongated, flat, and riband-shaped, being the longest muscle in the body. It arises from the curved margin of the ileum, between its anterior superior, and inferior spinous processes, and slightly from the former point of bone, and is inserted by an expanded aponeurosis into the spine of the tibia, just below its tuberosity. Direc- tion—obliquely downwards and inwai’ds in the upper third of its extent, then vertical as far as the knee, where it turns horizontally forwards to its point of attachment: structure— fleshy, except at the extremities, which are tendinous. The inferior tendon broad and expanded, covers those of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus, and sends off an expansion which strengthens the fascia of the leg, by becoming iden- tified with it. Relations—by the anterior surface with the fascia lata; ~by the posterior, with the iliacus, psoas, and rectus femoris muscles, the femoral vessels, the adductor longus, adductor magnus, vastus internus, gracilis, and semi- tendinosus muscles. Its internal border bounds with the adductor longus, a triangular space, through the centre and apex of which the femoral artery passes. 213. The rectus femoris (d?oit anterieur crural, Bichat; ilio-rotulien, Chauss., Dumas) is situated in front of the thigh, being extended in a straight lin6 from the pelvis to the patella. Form—elongated, smaller at the extremities than in the middle. It arises by two tendons, one of which embraces the anterior inferior spinous process of the ileum, the other, reflected outwards, is attached along the brim of the acetabulum ; from their union the muscle descends to be inserted into the patella, in conjunction with the triceps ex- tensor. Direction—vertical: structure—fleshy, except at the extremities, which are tendinous: relations—the anterior surface is covered in all its extent by the fascia lata, except a small portion superiorly, where it is separated from it by