242 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. tion of the common iliac artery. Hence the sacro-iliac symphysis, being the commencement of the external iliac artery, is the point over which the line must pass, in order that it may coincide with the direction of the vessel. If then from midway between the an- terior superior spine of the ileum and the symphysis pubis, a line be drawn upwards to about an inch to the outside of the umbili- cus, it will mark the course of the external iliac artery. The inci- sion through the integuments (the patient being placed in the ho- rizontal position) should begin four inches and a half above Pou- part’s ligament, and end within half an inch of that line. This ex- poses the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, which is to be di- vided in the same direction and extent. The fore-finger of the left hand should in the next place be insinuated beneath the lower border of the obliquus internus and transversalis muscles, in order to detach them from the peritonaeum ; but some difficulty will be experienced in effecting this, as it is necessary to tear through the fascia transversalis, which is rather firm in this situation. When the muscles have been elevated for some way, they are to be cau- tiously divided by a probe-pointed bistoury, carried along the finger. It then only remains, in order to obtain a view of the ar- tery, to push the bag of the peritonaeum from below upwards and inwards, towards the margin of the pelvis. It should however be recollected, that as the artery is in some measure bound down to the fascia iliaca, by the sub-serous cellular tissue which ad- heres rather firmly to that membrane, it becomes necessary to free it from this connexion, by carefully scraping, with the extre- mity of a probe, or with the nail, before the needle can be passed round it. As the vein lies close to the artery on its inner side, the needle must be insinuated between them, and passed from within outwards. No nerve is implicated in this operation, the anterior crural being separated from the artery by the breadth of the psoas muscle. The mode of incision here pointed out by cutting across the fibres of the abdominal muscles, necessarily weakens them, where they most require to be strong. Its chief recommendation is, that it enables the operator to place the ligature higher up on the vessel than he could do otherwise, on which account it may be the only operation admissible in certain cases, for instance, where an aneurismal tumour has extended as far as Poupart’s ligament, or