ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 416 posterior in situation, descends to form the circumflex nerve, and gives a small slip to form the spiral; the anterior divi- sion unites with a similar one from the seventh, and the common trunk thus resulting, gives at its upper side the ex- ternal cutaneous nerve, at the lower, the outer head of the median. The first dorsal nerve ascends to join the last cer- vical, to form a common trunk, which also separates into two divisions. The posterior one unites with a similar offset from the seventh to form the spiral nerve; whilst the anterior, after giving off" from its inner side the internal cutaneous nerve, divides ultimately into the ulnar and inner head of the median. 435. 1. The suprascapular nerve passes off from the plexus as high up as opposite the sixth cervical vertebra. Its direction is backwards and outwards, as it descends to the superior border of the scapula. The nerve passes through the supra-scapular notch, or foramen, and so reaches the dorsum of the scapula, where it gives branches, first, to the supra-spinatus muscle, and then continues its course upon the neck of that bone, until it arrives in the infra-spinalis fossa, where it terminates by ramifying in the muscles. 436. 1. The sub-scapular nerves pass backwards from the plexus, at first lying deeply in the axillary space; they are usually three in number. One, the smallest of the three, enters the sub-scapular muscle, and is distributed to its substance. The others not unfrequently arise by a common trunk, but sometimes separately ; both proceed in the same course as the sub-scapular artery, one supplying the muscle of that name, as well as the teres major and mi- nor, whilst the other, somewhat larger, pierces the teres major, and ramifies in the latissimus dorsi. 437. 3. The thoracic nerves are usually three in num- ber. Of these two may be observed to pass down on the fore part of the thorax, lying in front of the axillary vessels, and to terminate by ramifying in the substance of