588 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. divides into two branches. One of these passes backwards, and ramifies in the mass of lumbar muscles; but it previously sends some twigs through the intervertebral foramina to the dura mater and medulla spinalis. The other branch proceeds outwards, be- hind the quadratus lumborum, and then between the abdominal muscles, to which it is distributed. The sacra media arises from the extremity of the aorta, just at its bifurcation. From this point the artery proceeds down- wards upon the last lumbar vertebra, and over the middle of the sacrum, as far as the coccyx, where it forms small arches of anas- tomosis with the lateral sacral arteries. The sacra lateralis arises from the internal iliac artery, and runs parallel with the preceding to the coccyx, where they anasto- mose. It sends several branches through the sacral foramina. The middle haemorrhoidal artery also arises from the iliac, and passes inwards to reach the rectum, on which it is distributed. The vesical arteries issue from the same source, and supply the fundus of the bladder. The uterine and vaginal arteries pass inwards to their respective organs, being also derived from the internal iliac. These are all small branches, and subject to many variations in their course and mode of distribution. 636. The inferior vena cava returns the residue of the blood circulated by the descending aorta. It commences at the conflux of the two common iliac veins on the side of the fourth lumbar vertebra, and thence ascends along the right side of the aorta, as far as the posterior border of the liver: it there becomes lodged in a groove in that organ, after which, it inclines forwards to reach the opening in the diaphragm appropriated it, and finally terminates in the right auricle. In its course it receives the veins cor- responding with the lumbar, spermatic, and renal arteries ; and, finally, the hepatic veins, which, through the medium of the vena porta, return the blood from the chylopoietic viscera. 637. The superior vena cava commences at the conflux of the two venae innominatae, which occurs behind the right margin of the first bone of the sternum, and midway