VASCULAR SYSTEM—PROPERTIES OF ARTERIES. 599 presented by arteries attributable solely to their elasticity ? Haller, Bichat, and Majendie, have taken the affirmative side of the ques- tion ; Hunter, Soemmerring, Thomson, and Home, the opposite. A decided difference of opinion between such high authorities affords abundant evidence of the difficulty of the subject, particularly when we consider the great attention which they have severally paid to it, and the many experiments which they performed with a view to arrive at some satisfactory conclusion. Bichat’s argu- ments against the irritability of arteries are as follow:—1. Me- chanical or chemical irritants, applied to their external or internal surface, determine no contraction in them; nor, when divided longitudinally, do the edges of the incision become everted, as occurs in the intestines, or other irritable tubes. 2. When sepa- rated from the body they manifest no signs of contractility : if the finger be introduced into a vessel, it is not compressed. Gal- vanism produces no contraction; and if any is caused by the ap- plication of an acid, it is attributable rather to its chemical action on their coats than to any vital power in them. “ The arteries,” says Magendie* * * §, “ no where present any indication of irritability; they remain immoveable under the action of sharp instruments, of caustics, and of the galvanic current.” These results are not by any means conformable with those ob- tained by other physiologists. Dr. Thomson-j- “ succeeded in producing complete contraction, by irritating, for some time, though gently, with the point of a needle, the small arteries in the web of a frog’s foot.” The same effect was also produced by weak volatile alkali; but when a saturated solution of common salt was applied, with the point of a hair-pencil, “ the arteries, in- stead of being contracted, as they had so uniformly been by the application of ammonia, were actually and sensibly dilatedj.” Again: “ when the capillaries are stimulated by the direct rays of the sun, the application of gentle friction, or of spirits of wine, the velocity of the blood in them is immediately increased§.” The application of electricity has determined marked contractions * Physiology, p. 415. t Lectures on Inflammation, p. 85. t Eod. loco. § Wilson Piiiur on the Vital Functions, p. SJ85.