ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 678 ciliary ligament, incline inwards upon the anterior surface of the iris, where they divide into fine filaments, which soon elude our research, even with the aid of a microscope. The Humours of the Eye. 717. The aqueous humour is a thin, pellucid fluid, which fills up the two chambers of the eye, occupying the space between the cornea and crystalline lens. It is inclosed in a thin transparent membrane, which secretes it in the first instance, and reproduces it when evacuated by accident, or during operations. This mem- brane, usually called the capsule of the aqueous humour, lines the cornea and anterior surface of the iris, but does not seem to extend into the posterior chamber. 718. The crystalline lens is situated at the union of the anterior third with the two posterior thirds of the eye, lying behind the iris, surrounded by the ciliary processes, and embedded in the vitreous humour. The lens is doubly convex; but the posterior segment which is received into the vitreous humour is more con- vex than the anterior: the convexity of both is greater in infancy than in adult age. The greatest thickness of the lens is about two lines and half; its circumference measures from twelve to fourteen. It consists externally of a soft and homogenous substance, pre- senting no trace of organization ; but the central part, more dense and firm, is made up of concentric lamellae. The lens is enclosed in a capsule, which invests it all round, but without any distinguishable adherence to it, and is thicker and firmer on the anterior than on the posterior surface. If a punc- ture be made in the membrane a small quantity of a pellucid fluid issues from the incision, which is termed liquor Morgagni. When macerated in a dilute acid, or suddenly plunged into boiling water, the capsule becomes opaque and corrugated, presenting a pale, milky appearance. The lens and its capsule are both en- closed within a duplicature of the hyaloid membrane; or rather, after investing the vitreous humour, this membrane approaches the circumference of the lens, where it may be conceived to divide into two lamellae, of which one passes before, the other behind that body. By this arrangement an interstice of a triangular form is left, the