THE FLUIDS THEIR DIVISION. 27 guard against falling into the error of confounding ana- logy with identity. It would be a great mistake to sup- pose that, because an analogy exists at a particular time between certain organs, or systems of organs, in the human embryo, and the corresponding parts in some lower ani- mal, therefore there is an identity between the whole oyr ganization of the one and that of the other. The proposi- tion is true only with regard to particular parts, which by going through a succession of changes, resemble at one time the conformation of these parts in fishes, at another in reptiles, or birds, whilst the remainder of its structure con- forms to a totally different model. ^ 18. The human body is made up of fluids and solids, each resolvable into a number of proximate constituents, and these again into ultimate elements. The solids disposed in areolae and meshes, or formed into tubes, are permeated throughout their entire extent by the fluids, and so they bear to one another the relation of containing and contain- ed parts. The fluids, or humours, may be divided into three sorts,— 1. The blood, or central mass, which constantly flows, as it were, in a circle, alternately received into the heart, and propelled from it into all parts of the body. 2. The secreted fluids, which are sepai’ated from the blood by the different secerning organs, and are intended either for special purposes in the economy, or to be elimi- nated from it, viz. saliva, mucus, bile, urine, &c. &c. 3. The fluids brought into the central mass from with- out, being the product of absorption, and intended to sup- ply the losses sustained by the processes of nutrition and secretion, viz. chyle, lymph. So long as life lasts, these fluids are subjected to a con- stant internal motion, in which we can trace evidences of an uninterrupted separation of old particles, and a corre- spondent admission of new ones. The form of the body remains the same, though its component parts are subject