GG4 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. (lie same point, in order to associate Meckel’s ganglion, and thereby the naso-palatine ganglion, with the general syslem, of which in strictness they form a part ? b. The external branches are short, and pass outwards to the superior cervical nerves, at the points at which they appear in front of the neck. c. The internal set incline obliquely inwards to the parts placed along the middle line, particularly to the pharynx, where they contribute to the formation of the pharyngeal plexus. d. The anterior branches are very numerous; some of them communicate by anastomosis with the vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, lingual, and facial nerves. Others pass forwards on the external carotid artery, and accompany its different ramifications. These, from their appearance, are called nervi molles. e. 'The descending branches are divisible into two sets. The first is that by which the cervical ganglion is connected with the middle or inferior one, forming the continuation of the sympathetic nerve. It is in general a long and thin branch, but in some in- stances its place, is supplied by two filaments running parallel. The other descending branches are two or three, which unite to form the superficialis cordis nerve. 698. The middle cervical ganglion, when it exists, (which is not always the case,) is small, and very variable in its shape. It will be found on a level with the trans- verse process of the fifth cervical vertebra, where it is concealed by the sheath of the great vessels. It receives the branch of communication sent down to it from the superior cervical ganglion, and gives one which connects it with the inferior. From its external side branches pass to the cervical nerves ; several proceed inwards, some to the thyroid gland, others to communicate with the recur- rent nerve. Finally, from its forepart issues the middle cardiac nerve. 699. The inferior cervical ganglion is also variable in its form, being usually single, but sometimes double. It lies in the angle between the transverse process of the last