385 FLEXOR DIGITORUM PROFUNDUS. companying tendon, it is inserted into the forepart of the second phalanx. The same arrangement obtains in each instance. The direction and structure of the muscle have been here sufficiently indicated. Relations—supe- riorly concealed by the other muscles of this set, it rests on the flexor pollicis longus, and flexor profundus, separated from the latter by the median nerve. In the palm of the hand, its tendons are covered by the palmar fascia, the su- perficial palmar arch of arteries, and the branches of the median nerve. Where the tendons slide beneath the annu lar ligament they are invested by a synovial membrane, to facilitate their movements. The deep-seated muscles, on the anterior surface of the fore-arm, are the flexor profundus, flexor pollicis longus, and pronator quadratus. 391. The flexor digit or urn profundus vel perj'or ans lies deeply along the ulnar border of the fore-arm, covered by all the preceding muscles. It is compressed above, presents in the middle a fleshy belly of considerable size, and, infe- riorly, is divided into four tendons. The muscle arises from the hollow at the inner side of the olecranon, from the inner border and anterior surface of the ulna, to within a few lines of the edge of the pronator quadratus, and from the ulnar half of the interosseous ligament. The four ten- dons by which the muscle is continued into the palm, puss beneath the annular ligament, interposed between those of the flexor sublimis and the carpal bones, and maintain the same relation to the latter as they pass along the metacarpal bones and digital phalanges. Opposite the first phalanx of each finger, its tendon passes through the fissure formed for its transmission in the tendon of the flexor sublimis, and proceeds (still bound down by a fibrous sheath) to be in- serted into the base of the last phalanx. It is unnecessary to add any thing more as to its direction or structure. Relations—its upper extremity in a manner embraces the insertion of the brachialis anticus; the posterior surface 2 c