267 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. and is usually enumerated as one of the peculiarities of the foetal circulation. In the first part of its course the vessel lies along the margin and side of the pelvis, covered by the peritonaeum, then between that membrane and the side of the bladder; and finally between it and the fascia trans- versalis, which separates it from the rectus muscle and its sheath. After birth, when the placental circulation is no longer carried on, the umbilical arteries gradually contract, become impervious, and reduced to the form of mere ligamentous cords, extending from the side of the bladder to the umbilicus. The remaining part, which still continues pervious, presents a diminution in size propor- tioned to the decrease in the quantity of blood circulated through it, as it thenceforth has to supply only the parts within the pelvis, and the muscles on its exterior. 282. In the adult the internal iliac artery is a short, stunted trunk, extending from the sacro-iliac symphysis to the sacro-sciatic notch, opposite to which it may be said to terminate, by dividing into several branches, for none of them can be regarded as a continuation of it, or as follow- ing its course. The external side of the artery, just at its origin, is in contact with the inner border of the psoas mus- cle ; lower down it rests against part of the sacral plexus. Behind it, is situated the internal iliac vein, and the gpmmu-* nicating branch, which passes from the lumbar to the sacral plexus; in front it is crossed by the ureter, which separates it from the peritonaeum. When the depth at which this vessel is situated is duly considered, as well as its close connexion with the different parts here enumerated, we can form some idea of the difficulty of passing a ligature round it, in the living subject, without including the nerve, or injur- ing the vein. Its branches, though constant and regular in their existence and general distribution, still vary much in their origin. They consist of an internal set, rather small and variable, which are distributed to the parts within the pelvis, viz. the surface of the sacrum, the rectum, bladder,