506 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. mesentery, to the circumference of which these portions of the canal are attached; and the muscular presents some longitudinal and superficial fibres, the rest forming arches of circles, but not extending round the tube. The valvulae conniventes, which are numerous at the commencement of the jejunum, diminish in number gradually towards the ileum, and cease in the lower part of the latter. 563. The large intestine presents on its exterior surface a sacculated appearance, and is fixed in its situation by folds of the peritonaeum. Its length is to that of the rest of the canal as 1 to 5, and is disposed so as to describe, whilst in the abdomen, an arch, the extremities of which are fixed in the iliac fossae, the upper part or curve extending as high as the liver and stomach; whilst the terminal part descends into the pelvis, and describes another curve, corresponding with that of the sacrum. The large intestine is divided into three portions, differing in length and situation, viz. the ccecum, colon, and rectum. 564. 1. The ccecum is fixed in the right iliac fossa, where it forms a sort of cul-de-sac, being a short, rounded pouch, extended down from the colon, with which it is continuous, and receiving at its left side the ileum, which opens into it at an angle. It is sometimes called caput coli. It is co- vered by peritonaeum in front and at the inner side, but posteriorly is left uncovered where the membrane is re- flected away from it. To its lower and posterior part is attached a round elongated process, which from its resem- blance to an earth-worm, is called appendix vermiformis. It is about three inches long, and slightly convoluted, a small fold of peritonaeum serving to retain it in that condi- tion. Its coats are as thick as those of the ccecum, both being lined by mucous membrane, whilst the muscular fibres of the one are prolonged to the other. In the early periods of foetal life no distinction is perceptible between them; they form a long tube, projecting below the small intestine, and continuous above with the colon. But to-