211 PYRIFORMIS. the external tendon of the rectus femoris, and with the fibrous capsule of the hip joint to which it intimately adheres. Combined Actions.—The glutei act alternately on the femur and pelvis, according as the one or the other becomes relatively their fixed point of attachment. All three act as abductors ; the ante- rior fibres of the medius and minimus draw the trochanter forwards, the posterior backwards, giving it a slight rotatory motion. The maximus is a powerful abductor; and by the direction of its fibres is calculated to draw the femur backwards, at the same time that it rotates the whole limb outwards if it be kept extended. When the thighs become the fixed points, these muscles act on the pelvis. The great glutei draw it backwards and maintain it and the body in the erect position ; in this they are assisted by the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and biceps of each side, which act on the tube- rosities of the ischia, and draw them downwards, so as to elevate the fore part of the pelvis. The gluteus medius and minimus are chiefly called into action in progression, and in standing on one leg; they draw the pelvis towards the femur, which is fixed, and by this action counterbalance the weight of the trunk, and maintain it erect on the limb. This alternation of action of the muscles of opposite sides during progression, gives to the pelvis that rotatory motion so perceptible in those who walk irregularly, and do not, as the phrase is, “ keep the step,” but is strikingly evident in females, in consequence of the great breadth of the pelvis. 229. The pyriformis, (le pyramidal, Winslow; Bichat; sacro-troc/tanterien, Chauss.; sacro-ilei-trochanterien, Du- mas) is situated at first within the pelvis, and afterwards on its posterior and external surface. Form—elongated, as its name imports. It arises by three fleshy and tendinous di- gitations, from the second, third, and fourth divisions of the sacrum, interposed as it were between the sacral foramina ; a few fibres are also connected with the inner surface of the ileum. From these attachments the muscle passes out of the pelvis by the great sciatic notch, and is inserted into the p 2