FEMORAL ARTERY. 243 a little above it. It may be farther observed, that whilst the ope- ration is being performed in this way, much difficulty is expe- rienced in keeping the vessel exposed, after the peritonaeum and intestines have been pushed up, as they are continually forced down by the descent of the diaphragm; and as the sides of the wound are held apart by two retractors, it is difficult, if not im- possible, to apply a third at its superior angle, so as to bear off the peritonaeum and viscera. Sir Astley Cooper adopts quite a different method of operation ; his incision is somewhat transverse, with regard to the course of the artery. Commencing about half an inch above, and to the pubic side of the spine of the ileum, he divides the skin in a direction paral- lel with that of Poupart’s ligament, the incision being prolonged somewhat further than midway between the spine of the ileum and symphysis pubis. The point specified is the inner margin of the abdominal ring ; but this is not a good point of reference, as it is not perceptible or tangible before the incision is made. The fibres of the external oblique are in the next place to be divided to the same extent; and when the lunated flap thus formed is elevated, the lower border of the obliquus internus and transversalis is ex- posed, as well as the spermatic cord, as it passes beneath them. The cord will then serve as a guide to the epigastric artery, in front of which it lies; and this vessel in turn to the iliac artery, which can be detached from its connexions without any further dissection. With this view the finger is passed along the cord, and through the fascia transversalis, or rather through the opening in it, which transmits the cord, the artery is then felt pulsat’ng, and may be secured in the way recommended in the other mode of operation. 269. The femoral anery (femoralis communis, Murray) is placed along the anterior and inner side of the thigh, ex- tending from Poupart’s ligament, where it is continuous with the external iliac, as far as the junction of the middle with the inferior third of the thigh, at which point it changes its name and relation to the bone, becoming popliteal. If the knee be semi-flexed, and the limb rotated outwards so as to turn the flat or inner side of the thigh somewhat for- wards, the course of the vessel may be marked out by a r 2