CERVICAL MUSCLES—THEIR ACTION. 355 upwards and outwards, to be inserted into the external part of the mastoid process, and also into part of that rough sur- face on the occipital bone, which is included between its curved lines. Direction—obliquely upwards and outwards ; structure—tendinous at its attachments, fleshy in the rest of its extent: relations—its posterior and external surface is covered by the trapezius, sterno-mastoid, and levator anguli scapulae; the other rests on the complexus, trachelo- mastoid, and longissimus dorsi. Combined actions.—The levator anguli scapulae conspires with the rhomboideus in one of its more obvious actions. When the acromion process is elevated, the posterior angle of the scapula is depressed, and the inferior one carried forwards; but as soon as the more powerful muscles cease to act, the levator draws up- wards the posterior angle of the bone, whilst the rhomboid carries backwards and upwards the inferior angle, thus giving a slight rotatory motion to the whole bone, and at the same time depress- ing the acromion and point of the shoulder. If the shoulder be fixed, the levator may incline the neck down to the same side, just as the trapezius draws the head under the like circumstances. If the rhomboid muscle conspires with the middle and lower part of the trapezius, the base of the scapula will, by their joint effort, be carried directly towards the spine. The serrati postici, in their action on the thorax, (which from their size is necessarily insignificant) are antagonists. The infe- rior one is enabled by the direction of its fibres to depress the ribs, and to assist in expiration; but the other elevates the ribs, into which it is inserted. Both, however, are considered to pos- sess the power of rendering tense the vertebral aponeurosis which intervenes between them. If the splenii muscles of both sides act together, they draw the head directly backwards, in which they conspire with the com- plexus and trapezius. When those of one side act separately, they incline the head laterally, giving it at the same time a slight rotatory motion. The complexus, too, by reason of the oblique direction of its fibres, can give a certain degree of horizontal mo- 2 a 2