302 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. and the calf of the leg is very thin. The part of the membrane which is stretched across the popliteal space, and is dense and firm in its texture, will form a guide to the remainder, the dissec- tion being proceeded with from above downwards. The directions here given for the dissection of the superficial branches of the nerves may seem unnecessarily minute and prolix ; and so they would be in reality, if they were calculated for no other purpose. They, however, include all that need be said relative to the first stages of the dissection of the lower extremity. For, whether the student directs his attention at the moment to nerves, or confines it to muscles or arteries, the lines of incision pointed out will answer equally well for either purpose; and when the same measures suffice for all, they simplify the process by their uniformity. The dissection prosecuted so far as to re- move the integument from the entire of the limb, fully exposes the fascia, and enables us to view it as a whole, and to give a connected and detailed description of it. This we shall do, after making a few remarks on the dissection of the deep-seated nerves. The subject still lying prone, the fascia may be divided in its entire extent by a perpendicular incision, corresponding with that made through the skin. The membrane may, in the next place, be carefully dissected off the flexor muscles, which, if drawn aside, will leave the sciatic nerve exposed. There can then be no difficulty in tracing it down into the popliteal space, or of follow- ing its various muscular branches, as they pass away on either side, provided the nerve be drawn tight, which will render their direction quite evident. But as the nerve, at its exit from the pelvis, is covered by the gluteus maximus, it becomes necessary to detach that muscle from its connexion with the great sciatic ligament and the side of the sacrum, and to draw it outwards. Whilst this is being done, branches of the nerve will be observed to enter its pelvic surface at different points. This proceeding exposes at the same time the lesser sciatic nerve. To expose the peroneal nerve it will be found necessary to detach the peroneus longus and the extensor communis from the fibula, after which, if it be drawn tightly upwards, it will not be difficult to follow it and its branches in their entire extent. If the cavity of the abdomen be opened, and the viscera re-