ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 22 * Serres, Anatomie Comparee du Cerveau. lis. The trunk and head, in their composition, are symme- trical, being made up of two lateral halves, united along the middle line by a suture, or raphe, the traces of which are more or less perceptible in different parts; and this sym- metry is closely maintained in the extremities, or agents of locomotion, which are connected, the one with the upper, the other with the lower part of the body. The external line of junction corresponds with others observable in the interior, and which are the necessary results of the mode in which the body and its different organs are in the first place de- veloped. Thus the falx cerebri descends from the middle of the arch of the skull, taking the direction of an osseous ridge running along the frontal and occipital bones. Be- neath this is the corpus callosum, forming a connecting medium between the cerebral hemispheres, and from which projects the septum lucidum, which bears to the internal cavities of the brain, the same relation that the falx does to that of the cranium. The division of the nasal cavity is marked out by the septum narium; that of the mouth by the fraena of the tongue and lips, as well as by the uvula. The division in the thorax is indicated by the mediastinum; in the heart, by the septum interposed between its cavities ; in the abdomen the only traces that exist in the adult of its original division, are the falciform processes, extending from the umbilicus, the one upwards, with the remains of the umbilical vein, the other downwards, with that of the urachus; but in the penis and clitoris, the line is distinctly marked by the septum of the corpora cavernosa, and in the scrotum and perineum, by the raphe. 16. It has been hitherto supposed, that in the original development and growth of organized bodies, the increase proceeded from the centre towards the circumference. Recent researches* have, however, demonstrated the re- verse to be the fact, and have shewn, that each organ is in the first instance double, its parts being placed laterally