172 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. throughout the column ; 1, by an inter-vertebral substance placed between their oval surfaces ; 2, by the continuation of the anterior and posterior common ligaments ; 3, a liga- mentum subflavum connecting the arches of the last verte- brae with the posterior border of the sacral canal; 4, an in- ter-spinous ligament; 5, two synovial membranes between the articulating processes, and lastly, a sacro-vertebral liga- ment. All these, except the last, being similar to the con- necting media throughout the column, require no farther description in this place. 159. The sacro-vertebral ligament connects the summit of the transverse process of the last vertebra with the de- pressed lateral surface at the base of the sacrum; its form is triangular, as its fibres diverge and expand towards the sacro-iliac symphysis. 160. The ileo-lumbar ligament is extended horizontally between the summit of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, and the posterior extremity of the crista of the ileum, where its fibres expand somewhat, so as to give it a triangular form. This is the only bond of union between the vertebral column and the os ileum. 161. The sacro-coccygean articulation is effected, 1, by an anterior ligament, consisting of irregular fibres, placed in front of these bones, subjacent to the rectum ; 2, by a. pos- terior ligament more strongly marked, composed of fibres which descend upon the bones of the coccyx, from the margin of the inferior orifice of the sacral canal, which it serves to close in and complete; 3, by a Jibro-cartilage in- terposed between the contiguous extremities of the sacrum and coccyx. 162. The sacro-iliac articulation, often named the sacro- iliac symphysis, or synchondrosis, is formed between the rough lateral surfaces of the sacrum and ileum, closely ap- plied to one another, and connected by an irregular lamella of a cartilaginous structure. In addition to these means of union, the pelvic bones are connected by the following liga- ments.