ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 434 from its effect on the mouth, was formerly called risorius Santorini. In some subjects, a few fibres may be traced higher up on the face to the zygomatici muscles, or even to the margin of the orbicularis palpebrarum. The platisma is covered by the skin, to which it is connected by cellular tissue, usually called the superficial fascia of the neck. It covers slightly the pectoralis major, and deltoid; also the clavicle, sterno-mastoid muscle, the sheath of the great cervical vessels, the submaxillary gland, labial artery, and external jugular vein. 450. The sterno-cleido-mastoideus is extended, as it were, diagonally across the side of the neck. It arises from the top of the sternum and inner third of the clavicle,— the attachment to the former being by a thick, rounded fasci- culus, composed of tendinous fibres at its cutaneous aspect, the rest being fleshy. The clavicular origin is flat, and composed of fleshy and aponeurotic fibres, which pass per- pendicularly upwards, whilst the sternal part inclines back- wards as it ascends, so that both become inseparably blended, below the middle of the neck, into a thick, rounded muScle, which is finally inserted into the external surface of the mastoid process, and for some way into the rough ridge behind it, by aponeurotic fibres. The external surface of the muscle is covered by the platisma in the greatest part of its extent, its sternal origin and its insertion are covered by the fascia and skin; part of the parotid gland overlaps it superiorly. In the middle it is crossed by the external jugular vein, and by some branches of the cervical nerves. It rests on part of the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles, on the cervical plexus of nerves and great cervical vessels, also on the digastricus and stylo-hyoideus muscles, and spinal accessory nerve, which pierces it. Actions.—The lower part of the cutaneous muscle can exert no action of much importance in the human subject; it may be con- sidered as a rudiment of that broad, fleshy lamella, which is