ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 322 thigh, for about four inches below Poupart’s ligament, without disturbing the layer of cellular membrane that lies beneath it. This we shall now proceed to describe as the superficial fascia of the abdomen. 331. The superficial fascia (_fascia superficialis) is a layer of cellular membrane placed between the skin, and the external oblique muscles, in their entire extent, and which is moreover prolonged upwards over the thorax, down on the thighs, and backwards into the loins. It is in fact part of the subcutaneous cellular membrane which we find all over the body; but in the region here referred to, it de- serves particular attention, from its forming one of the coverings of hernial tumours. In the human subject it can add little to the strength of the abdominal parietes; but in animals, particularly in the larger quadrupeds, its place is occupied by a membrane of a yellow colour, firm texture, and quite elastic, which assists the muscles mate- rially in supporting the viscera. Its structure in these cases is closely analogous to that of the ligamenta subflava of the vertebrae, or to the middle coat of arteries, according to the opinion of those who deny them muscularity. The su- perficial fascia increases in thickness towards the lower part of the abdomen, and in its substance may be observed to run the superficial epigastric vein and artery, so that along their course, it may, by a little care, be separated into two lamellae, but on each side of the vessels it remains single, and undivided. Taking the vessels as a guide, the anterior lamella of the fascia can be dissected off* them as far down as the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, and thence onwards uninterruptedly over the thigh. Exter- nally, where the membrane is undivided, it can be traced over the iliac part of the fascia lata, and internally over the spermatic cord, and so to the scrotum, forming one of its layers, and thence down into the perinaeum. When raised from the aponeurosis of the external oblique, arid reflected down, together with the small vessels which lie upon it, we