LONGISSIMUS DORSI. 357 into the neck, and which on that account was formerly named musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem, but has more recently been called cervicalis ascendens, from its re- sembling a process sent up into the neck from the sacro- lumbalis, whilst others have applied to it the term cervicalis descendens, from the circumstance that its more fixed point of attachment is at the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, from which it passes down along the angles of the ribs, and intermingles with the fibres of the sacro- lumbalis. The cervical prolongation of the sacro-lumbalis (cervicalis ascendens ; cervicalis descendens—musculus ac- cessorius) arises from the angle of the sixth, fifth, fourth, and third ribs, by a series of tendinous fasciculi, which are blended with the fibres of the sacro-lumbalis. These gra- dually unite to form a thin, short, muscular band, which extends along the transverse processes of the sixth, fifth, fourth, and third cervical vertebrae, into which it is in- serted by so many separate digitations or points. 358. 2. The longissimus dorsi, or inner division of the erector spinas, is prolonged vertically upwards from the lumbar mass, gradually diminishing in size as it ascends. It lies in the middle of the vertebral groove, intermediate between the sacro-lumbalis and the semi-spinalis dorsi, from which it is separated by deep cellular intervals. The pos- terior surface is smooth and even, but from the anterior a number of processes are sent off, which are inserted into the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, as well as the adjacent rough surface of the ribs. Considerable variety occurs in the number of these attachments to the ribs; sometimes they can be traced to only seven or eight, at others to eleven. The muscle would at first sight appear to cease at the top of the thorax; but when examined in that situation, it will be found connected intimately with two muscular fasciculi, which may be considered as acces- sories to it. By one of these it is prolonged into the neck, and connected with the transverse processes of the cervical