CRURAL NERVE—ITS BRANCHES. 287 a. The superficial branches are usually two, sometimes there are more. They pierce the fascia from half an inch to an inch below Poupart’s ligament, one just in front of the femoral artery, the other about midway between that point and the external border of the thigh. The former may be called the internal, the latter the middle cutaneous branch, inasmuch as it lies intermediate between it and the external cutaneous nerve (its anterior branch) already de- scribed. The middle cutaneous branch passes down be- neath the integument, lying on that part of the fascia which covers the rectus muscle, and may be traced as far as the front of the knee. The internal ramusculus takes nearly the course of the great saphena vein, distributing filaments as it descends over the sartorius and vastus internus, as far as the inner side of the knee joint. b. The deep-seated branches are very numerous, and admit of being divided into an external, internal, and long, or descending set, the two former being distributed alto- gether to the muscles, the last partly to muscles, partly sub-cutaneous. The long descending branches are two in number; they both incline inwards, as they descend, and come into contact with the sheath of the femoral vessels, where they are crossed by the sartorius muscle. One of these (nervus saphenus minor) lies along the external side of the sheath of the vessels for some way, and distributes fila- ments to the sartorius as it descends; it soon however inclines outwards, and ramifies in the vastus internus, as far as the knee. The other branch (saphenus major vel internus; tibio-cutane, Chauss.) is larger and much longer than the preceding. After running for some way upon the sheath of the vessels, it penetrates it so as to come into contact with the coats of the artery, and lies for about the middle third of the thigh on the superior and external side of that vessel. When the artery is about to pass backwards into the popliteal space, the nerve ceases to accompany it, and continues its course directly down to the knee, covered by