601 VASCULAR SYSTEM—THE PULSE. fishes there is no aortic ventricle; in reptiles the arteries contract and propel the blood after the heart has been removed ; and even in warm-blooded animals this has been observed undiminished in the capillaries, after all connexion with the heart had been cut off by a ligature on the aorta *. The circulation goes on in acephalous monsters, though they have not a heart. Inferences drawn from a consideration of the structure and functions of the lower animals cannot always be extended to those of more complex and perfect organization, as the analogy between them may not be sufficiently close to warrant the application ; but from a general view of what has been stated with regard to the circulating system, we may conclude, that when the heart exists it exerts a decided influence on the circulation; that, by its action, the flow of blood in the arteries moves on, not continuously, but in jets; and that it conti- nues uninterruptedly, though the leading arterial trunks have be- come ossified. The vessels also have a part to perform, as is evident from the fact, that they can propel the blood after the heart has ceased to act, and so the heart and arteries may be con- sidered as associated for the performance of a special function, each being to a certain extent endued with an independent power ; one acting by direct propulsion, the others assisting by their vital force and elasticity. The flow of blood in the arteries determines a peculiar pheno- menon, called pulse. The number of arterial pulsations in a given time, varies according to the age, sex, and constitution of each individual; but, setting aside these, and all other variations dependent on different circumstances, in health as well as in dis- ease, when we come to inquire what is the change sustained by arteries during their pulsation, and what is the cause of that change, we find that even on these preliminary questions a consi- derable difference of opinion exists amongst physiologists. Ac- cording to Mr. Hunter-)-, “ arteries, during their diastole, increase much more in length than width. It is, however, the increased diameter that is perceived by the touch. This increase is so ma- * Enquiry into the Laws of the Vital Functions, p. 284, by Wilson Philip. t On the Blood and Inflammation, p. 23.