400 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. from the side, is of a pyramidal form, the summit being at the interval between the scaleni muscles, and the base at the borders of the pectoralis and latissimus dorsi, its sides being formed as follows:—viz. by the pectoral muscles in front, by the latissimus and teres behind, the serratus mag- nus internally, and the subscapularis and head of the hu- merus externally. The axillary artery gives off seven branches, which are named as follows; premising, at the same time, that considerable variety obtains in their mode of origin. a. The thoracica suprema arises above the border of the pecto- ralis minor, and sometimes is derived from the thoracica acro- mialis, being a very small branch. It inclines forwards and inwards, getting between the pectoral muscles, to which its rami- fications are distributed; some of them also go to anastomose with those of the internal mammary and intercostal arteries. b. The thoracica acromialis arises from the fore part of the axillary artery, being rather a large branch. It projects forwards at the upper border of the pectoralis minor, and. soon divides into branches that take opposite directions. One set inclines inwards to the thorax, the other outwards to the acromion, whence the vessel derives its name. The thoracic branches are three or four in number, and are distributed to the serratus magnus and pectoral muscles, their extreme terminations communicating with those of the other thoracic branches, as well as with the intercostal branches of the internal mammary artery. The acromial branches incline outwards, and subdivide into a descending and transverse set. The latter proceed towards the acromion, and are distributed partly to the deltoid muscle, whilst others, upon the upper surface of that process, maintain an anastomosis with the supra-scapular and posterior circumflex arteries. The descending branch passes down in the interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid, and ramifies in both. c. The thoracica alaris is very variable in size, and altogether unimportant; it is merely distributed to the glands and cellular tissue in the axilla. d. The thoracica longa passes downwards and inwards along the