133 THE INTERNAL SURFACE OF THE SKULL. may also be observed, for the cerebral convolutions, and some tortuous lines for the branches of the meningeal artery. The sur- face is somewhat depressed at the points corresponding with the frontal and parietal eminences ; and also above the internal occi- pital ridge, where the posterior lobes of the brain are lodged. The base of the skull presents the several eminences, depres- sions, and foramina, which have been already enumerated in the description of the separate bones. Three fossae may be observed on each side, differing in size and depth ; the anterior one formed by the orbital plate of the frontal bone and the smaller wing of the sphenoid, serves to support the anterior lobe of the brain; it is marked by eminences and depressions, corresponding with the cerebral convolutions and sulci; and, posteriorly, by a transverse line, indicating the junction of the bones just mentioned. The middle fossa, formed by the great ala of the sphenoid, the squa- mous part of the temporal, and the anterior surface of the pars pe- trosa, lodges the middle lobe of the brain. It is marked by linear impressions, for the meningeal artery, and by shallow grooves, for the cerebral convolutions; anteriorly it opens into the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, which transmits the third, fourth, the ophthal- mic branch of the fifth, and the sixth pair of nerves, together with the ophthalmic vein. Behind this is situated the foramen rotun- dum, for the second branch of the fifth, the foramen ovale, for the third, and, lastly, the foramen spinosum, for the middle meningeal artery. At the junction of the pars petrosa w'ith the body of the sphenoid, is the internal orifice of the carotid canal; on the ante- rior surface of the pars petrosa, and directed obliquely backwards, is a slight groove, leading to the hiatus Fallopii, and transmitting the vidian nerve. The posterior fossa, deeper and broader than the others, gives lodgment to the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. In the posterior surface of the pars petrosa, which forms the boun- dary of this fossa, may be observed the internal auditory foramen, and, within a few lines of it, a triangular fissure, which opens into the aquaeductus vestibuli, and towards its inferior margin, the groove for the lateral sinus, which leads down to the foramen la- cerum posterius. Along the middle line, and taking the parts situated in the base of the skull, from before backwards, we ob- serve the crista galli of the ethmoid bone; and, on each side, the cribriform lamella of that bone. Farther back, a slightly depressed