403 BRACHIAL ARTERY. front of the artery, but in some instances behind it. The venae comites run parallel with the artery, and in close contact with it; they moreover send several short branches of communication, which pass from one to the other so as to encircle it. The internal cutaneous nerve is superficial to the artery, but it does not lie exactly in front of it; for, at the elbow, the nerve is to its inner side, and maintains a similar relation higher up. At the bend of the arm the ar- tery sinks deeply into an angular interval, inclosed between the pronator teres and supinator radii longus. In this situa- tion the vessel is covered by the fascia of the arm, and crossed by the process sent from the tendon of the biceps to that membrane; it rests on the brachialis anticus muscle, having the tendon of the biceps on the radial, the median nerve on the ulnar side, and finally, opposite the insertion of the brachialis anticus, divides into the radial and ulnar arte- ries. The position of the artery with regard to the shaft of the humerus deserves particular attention. Superiorly it is parallel with, and to the inner side of the bone, and inferiorly lies directly in front of it. In the former situ- ation, therefore, in order to compress the vessel, the pres- sure must be directed from within outwards; in the latter, from before backwards: and at the intermediate point the direction of the pressure must be, as it were, intermediate too, that is to say, backwards and outwards. The brachial artery in its course gives numerous branches to the muscles by which it passes; none but the following have received names, or require description. 1. The profunda superior having started from the back part of the artery, just below the border of the teres major, inclines down- wards and outwards, to reach the interval between the second and third heads of the triceps. In this course, it is accompanied by the musculo-spiral nerve, and both, continuing the same oblique direction, pass between the bone and the second head of the muscle, to reach its anterior and external aspect. In this situa- 2 D 2