260 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. collected that the most external part of the plantar arch corre- sponds with the fourth metatarsal space. In its course this ves- sel crosses under the abductor of the little toe, and then runs along the border of its phalanges, on the last of which it termi- nates: b, the second digital branch, passes forwards along the fourth metatarsal space, and at the cleft between the toes divides into two twigs, which take the contiguous borders of the fourth and fifth toes, and end on their third phalanges : c, the third di- gital branch, is similarly disposed of on the third and fourth toes : and d, the fourth, on the second and third. Near the point of bi- furcation each digital artery sends upwards through the corre- sponding metatarsal space a small branch, which communicates with the digital branches of the metatarsal artery. These are called the anterior perforating branches. The digital arteries, which, from their relation to the phalanges, are sometimes called collateral, at their final termination incline towards one another, and form arches by inosculation, from the convexity of which minute vessels pass forwards to the extremities of the toes. 279. The anterior tibial artery (tibialis antica) is placed deeply along the fore part of the leg, extending from the division of the popliteal, to the bend of the ankle, from whence it is prolonged to the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones, under the name of the dorsal ar- tery. Its course may be marked out by a line drawn from the inner border of the head of the fibula to the middle of the ankle joint. At starting, it turns horizontally forwards to reach the anterior surface of the interosseous ligament. In doing so, it necessarily passes between the heads of the tibialis posticus muscle, and through the interval between the bones left unclosed by that membrane. In its course it rests for two thirds of its extent on the interosseous liga- ment, and for the rest, on the anterior surface of the tibia. In the upper part of its extent it is deeply seated, and in a manner overlapped by the tibialis anticus and extensor lon- gus digitorum; the former being on its tibial, the latter on its fibular side. Lower down it lies between the extensor pollicis and tibialis anticus; but as, towards the ankle, these