430 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. to their respective muscles, until all of them are exposed, and their borders defined. When this has been effected, little dif- ficulty will be experienced in distinguishing them from one another, if the first line of the description given of them be at- tended to ; as it indicates the situation and direction of each, and when the name of a muscle is known, every thing relative to its anatomical characters will be found in the section which treats of it. When the long extensors which arise from' the external condyle have been examined, they may be detached from their origin, and drawn outwards, so as to expose those which lie deeply between, or on the bones. The supinator brevis and anconeus, both short muscles, and oblique in the direction of their fibres, will be seen close below the elbow joint, whilst the extensors of the thumb, and the indicator, lie obliquely over the middle and lower part of the radius. The first step in the dissection of the hand consists in ex- posing the palmar fascia in its entire extent. For this purpose a transverse incision may be made at the wrist, down to the annu- lar ligament; for, as the fascia arises from it, it affords an easy guide to that membrane. The integument may then be raised, and reflected forwards to the fingers, or to either side. When the fascia has been examined, it may detached from its connexion with the annular ligament, and removed altogether, by which means the flexor tendons, the superficial arch of arteries, and the branches of the ulnar and median nerves, are brought into view. The digital prolongations of these different structures can, in the next place, be traced along the fingers by merely removing the integument. The short muscles of the thumb, and those of the little finger, may next engage attention. But it will not be neces- sary to add any thing to what has been already stated in the de- scription of the muscles, as they are taken in their anatomical order, care being also taken to indicate their situation and gene- ral characters, so that no mistake can occur. Deep in the palm of the hand are situated one set of interossei muscles ; these cannot be seen until the flexor tendons are all removed. The ex- tensor tendons must be displaced, in order to expose fully the dorsal interossei. Particular attention should be paid to the position of the super- ficial palmar arch of arteries, as well as to its digital and colla-