ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. GtJO which are distributed to the genio-hyo-glossus and lingualis muscles. At the point where the nerve makes its turn forwards it will be observed to hook round the occipital artery, and then to give off its chief branch, the*descendens noni, which inclines downwards and inwards in front of the sheath of the vessels, and at the middle of the neck curves outwards, to form, with two branches from tlie cervical plexus, an inverted arch. The convexity of the arch looks downwards, and from it several long delicate filaments are given off, which descend upon the forepart of the neck, and are distributed to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid mus- cles, also to the omo-hyoideus. Previously to its ultimate division the lingual nerve gives some filaments to thehyo- giossus muscle, aud others to communicate with the gusta- tory nerve. Dissection.—When proceeding to open the skull (the muscles having been previously dissected) it will be found convenient to saw through the external table of the bones all round, from the superciliary ridge to the occipital protuberance. When this has been done the inner table may be broken through by employing a small mallet and chisel, or a strong knife made for the purpose. After the roof of the skull is removed, the chin should be supported on a block, and the dissection proceeded with. An incision may be made along the middle line so as to lay open the longitudinal sinus, after which the dura mater may be divided by a horizontal incision carried along the whole length of one of the hemispheres, on a level with the section made in the bone. This portion of the membrane may then be drawn to the opposite side, which will expose the surface of the brain, the falx cerebri, the fissure be- tween the hemispheres, &c. The hemisphere which is uncovered may be drawn aside so as to expose the corpus callosum, and its substance may be cut through bypassing down a scalpel to a level with the corpus callosum, and then directing its edge outwards and upwards somewhat, so as to avoid entering the ventricle. The ven- tricle may be opened by making an incision through the corpus