535 THE UTERUS. wards, being at the same time slightly curved, the conca- vity being directed upwards towards the pubic symphysis. 596. The vagina is a membranous and dilatable tube extended from the vulva to the neck of the uterus, which it embraces; it rests on the rectum, supports the bladder and urethra in front, and is inclosed between the levatores ani. Thus placed, it is oblique from below upwards and backwards, its axis corresponding w ith that of the outlet of the pelvis. It is also slightly curved, the concavity of the curve looking upwards. Hence its length will be found greater if measured on the lower than on the upper sur- face. Along the superior, as well as the inferior surface of the vagina, a slightly elevated line extends from before backwards, similar to the raphe in the middle line in other situations. Several transverse lines {ruga;) will also be observed, particularly in persons who have not borne chil- dren, running at right angles with those just mentioned. The rugae are but folds of the mucous membrane, and are calculated to admit of the elongation of the vagina that occurs during the ascent of the uterus in pregnancy. The exterior layer of which the vagina is composed is cellulo- fibrous in its structure, and contracts a close connexion superiorly with the fibrous structure of the uterus. It is thin, firm, and of a pale red colour. Round the lower part of the tube a lamella of erectile tissue is placed, which diminishes gradually in quantity from thence upwards, so that near the uterus little or none can be discovered. 597. The uterus {matrix) is the largest of the genital organs, and is fitted to contain and support the new being, during the period of foetal life. It lies between the bladder and rectum, above the vagina, with which it is intimately connected, and enclosed in the folds of peritonaeum, called the broad ligaments. It is triangular in its form, and pre- sents for examination a fundus, body, and neck, with the en- closed cavity. The fundus is the broad part, which projects above the