ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 504 in that part are rather few in number. The internal coat, called mucous, from its peculiar secretion, and villous, from the numerous delicate papilli, like the pile of velvet, that project upon it, forms part of the lining membrane of the alimentary canal, which shall be described as a continuous whole, after we have concluded our notice of the individual viscera. The stomach derives its blood from two arterial arches which correspond with its two curvatures ; the upper one being formed by the coronary artery and the pyloric branch of the hepatic ; the lower by the two gastrica-epiploic branches; one being derived from the hepatic, the other from the splenic artery. Besides these, its splenic end receives the vasa brevia from the splenic artery. Its residual blood is conveyed by corresponding veins into the venae portae; whilst its nerves are derived from the sto- machic plexus, being an offset from the great solar plexus, and from the terminal branches of the two vagus nerves. 560. The intestinal canal extends from the pylorus to the anus, and in the human subject varies from thirty to thirty-five feet in length. It is coiled on itself, so as to form folds or convolutions, and is divisible into two parts, differ- ing in size and situation, as well as external conformation, the division between them being moreover marked by a pe- culiar valvular structure, which prevents a reflux of the ingesta after they have passed beyond it. The part of the canal between the pylorus and the valve just referred to is called the small intestine, the remainder thence onward to the anus, the large intestine. Anatomists have agreed to consider the small intestines as divisible into three parts, viz. the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum; premising, how- ever, that they are but portions of a continuous tube, the lines of division between them being altogether arbitrary. 561. The duodenum has been so called, from being in its length equal to about twelve fingers’ breadth. It was at one time named ventriculus succedaneus, as from its function and great distensibility it resembled an accessory stomach.