THE TESTES. 527 vestment is dense and resisting, though composed for the most part of longitudinal fibres. From the inside of its circumference thin lamellae project, forming partial septa, by which means the cavity is divided into several small cells. Within these is inclosed the intricate vascular interlacement just alluded to, which com- municates, on the one hand, with the arteries which run in the interior, as well as with the dorsal arteries, and on the other with the veins, which take a similar course. A transverse section of the body of the penis will shew the relation and connexion of its component parts. On the sides are two cylindrical tubes, formed by a fibrous membrane, inclosing a vascular mass in the interior, and divided along the middle line by a vertical septum ; beneath and between these runs the urethra, surrounded by its vascular investment. 585. Cowpers glands. These are two small masses, about the size and shape of peas, placed immediately be- neath the membranous part of the urethra, and behind the bulb. They consist of several small lobules, united by a membranous investment. Two ducts, from three quarters of an inch to an inch long, issue from them, and proceed forwards, to open into the urethra a little before the bulb. They are retained in situ, and supported by a tubular pro- longation sent forwards on the urethra from the deep oeri- nasal fascia. 586. The testicles (StSvpoi, testes) are the secreting organs of the seminal fluid. The testes, in the earlier months of foetal life, lie on the psoas muscles, near the lower extremity of the kidneys. Each of them is invested by a proper cap- sule, or fibrous tunic, and receives moreover a partial cover- ing from the peritonaeum, to about the same extent as the kidney does, as both are similarly circumstanced with re- gard to that membrane. It receives its artery from the aorta, close to which it lies, whilst the vein opens into the vena cava on the right side, and into the renal vein on the left. From its lower extremity its duct will be observed to