251 FEMORAL ARTERY—ITS DISSECTION. course and distribution are usually regular and uniform. The femoral artery in its course along the thigh gives branches to the contiguous muscles, but none of them merit a particular name or description. Close to its termination a small but regular branch arises from it,— The anastomotic artery (ramus anastomoticus) descends from the femoral, as it is about to pass into the popliteal space, in a line continuous with that of the trunk, from which it arises. It pierces the tendinous fascia which binds down the femoral artery, and gives off two or three branches, whilst the vessel itself passes down to the inner condyle, guided by the prolonged tendon of the adductor magnus, and there anastomoses with the internal ar- ticular artery. The branches pass obliquely outwards through the substance of the vastus internus, and communicate with the long descending branches of the external circumflex artery. Dissection and operations.—In the first place, let the knee be slightly bent and the limb rotated outwards. And as in this po- sition the course of the femoral artery is indicated by a line ex- tended from midway between the anterior superior spine of the ileum, and the pubic symphysis, to the lower border of the patella, the first incision through the skin should be made to the same ex- tent, and in the same direction. In order to reflect the integu- ments with facility, a second incision may be made transversely at the junction of the upper, with the middle third of the thigh ; and finally, another in the same direction opposite the termination of the femoral artery. The flaps of skin thus formed are to be dissected back, so as to expose the fascia lata. When the super- ficial epigastric and circumflexa ilei arteries have been traced, the fascia may be divided to the same extent as the skin, so as to expose the muscles, which are to be dissected carefully. The in- ternal pudic branches will be found running inwards on the pecti- neus ; the external circumflex outwards beneath the sartorius and rectus, its trunk affording a clue to its different branches, which can be traced without any difficulty after the vessel has once passed the crural nerves. The dissection of the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, requires some care, as it is embedded in a quantity of cellular tissue, and gives off its more import- ant branches. The profunda and femoral veins also, which here