THE LIVER ITS STRUCTURE. 515 The incipient branches of this vein commence roupd the rectum, where they form a sort of venous plexus. From this the vein as- cends towards the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and continues its course to the head of the pancreas, where it opens into the splenic vein. b. The superior mesenteric vein is of considerable size ; its branches correspond with those of the artery of the same name, being enclosed within the mesentery, and converging to form a trunk, which passes beneath the pancreas to join the splenic vein. 1. The vena portae ascends from the junction of these two veins towards the transverse fissure of the liver, and is from three to four inches in length. On reaching the point just indicated the vein divides into two branches, the left, though longer, being less in diameter than the right. These branch out like arteries in the correspond- ing sides of the liver, until they become capillary in its granular structure. 2. The hepatic veins commence by radicles continuous (as may be shewn by injection) with the terminations of the vena portae. These gradually enlarge as they pass upwards, converg- ing to the point at which the vena cava passes behind the liver, and pour their contents into that vein. They are usually three in number. 3. The hepatic artery, arising from the caeliac, ascends to the transverse fissure, where it divides into two branches, which accompany those of the vena portae to their terminations. 4. The nerves, forming a plexus (hepatic) round the artery, are derived from the great solar plexus. 5. The lymphatics are exceedingly numerous ; some being extended upon its surfaces, others arising from its interior, the latter following the course of the blood- vessels. They all join at the fissure, and descend in the lesser omentum, to terminate in the thoracic duct. 6. The biliary duct (iductus hepaticus) arises by minute ramusculi, continuous with those of the vena portae, whose branches they accompany as they converge towards the transverse fissure, where by their union they form the duct. 7. A lamella of cellular membrane encloses the hepatic vessels previously to their entrance into the fissure, and accompanies them to their final termination, loosely connect- ing them to the substance of the organ. This has been called the capsule of Glisson, who supposed it to possess a contractile, and even a muscular pow'er, and on this hypothesis sought to explain the portal circulation.* Such are the anatomical elements of * Gi.isson de Anatomia Hepatis. 2 l 2