ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 64 to the two bones, called the ileo-pectineal eminence. This border presents two excavations, separated by a prominent point, called the anterior inferior spinous process. The interval between the latter, and the ileo-pectineal eminence, gives transmission to the iliacus and psoas muscles. The posterior border also presents two notches, sepa- rated by a prominent point of bone, called the posterior in- ferior spinous process; above which is another bony emi- nence, called the posterior superior spinous process; of the notches, the inferior and larger one contributes to form the sacro-sciatic notch. Of the three angles of the bone, the two superior ones correspond with the spinous processes. The inferior is re- presented by the constricted part of the bone. Here we ob- serve three surfaces, one external, smooth, concave, forming part of the acetabulum, the deep cavity which receives the head of the femur; one anterior, small, and triangular, marking the junction with the pubis, a third posterior, the junction with the ischium. Attachments of Muscles. To the interval, on its external sur- face, between the crista and superior curved line, is attached the gluteus medius : to the space, between the latter and the acetabulum, the gluteus minimus : to the posterior rough surface, the gluteus maximus : to the internal surface, or iliac fossa, the iliacus muscle. To the anterior half of the external lip of its crista is attached the obliquus externus abdominis : to the posterior third of the same lip, the latissimus dorsi: to the anterior three- fourths of the inner lip, the transversalis abdominis : to the anterior two-thirds of the interval between the lips, the obliquus internus, and to the remainder, the quadratus lum- borum. To the external surface of the anterior superior spine is attached the tensor vaginae femoris: to the notch, beneath it, the sar- torius: to the anterior inferior spine, the straight tendon of the rectus femoris; and to the brim of the acetabulum, the ex- ternal tendon of that same muscle.