46 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. of ossification not being fully completed in the different parts of the skeleton, until about the sixteenth or eigh- teenth year; sometimes even still later. From its first commencement to its final completion, the ossific process runs through three distinct states or conditions, viz. the mucous, cartilaginous, and finally, that of solid bone. But though these succeed one another regularly, it would be a mistake to suppose that the mucus becomes hardened into cartilage, or the latter solidified into bone by any process similar to transformation; the facts observed by no means warrant such an inference. The change coincides with an alteration in the mode of nutrition in the part, in conse- quence of which bone is deposited in place of cartilage. The embryo at the earliest periods in which it has been examined, presents no distinction of parts, all being equally soft and homogeneous. So at least it has appeared to the greater number of those who have investigated the subject. Sir E. Home, however, states that several parts are distin- guishable, even so early as the eighth day after conception. Towards the fourth week the consistence of the parts cor- responding to the future skeleton, is sufficiently increased to admit of their being distinguishable from all others, and their outline defined. The vessels at this period convey and deposit gelatine, the basis of the cartilaginous state, which appears to be completed about the eighth week; for it is about that period that the deposition of bone begins in some places. The cartilages being temporary substi- tutes for bone, differ from it in many respects. They pre- sent no appearance of fibres or vessels, have no internal cavity or medullary tissue; they are solid and homoge- neous in their whole extent, but possess the outward form of bone, and are invested by a fibrous envelope analogous to that of bone (perichondrium). There is another peculi- arity which deserves notice ; all those parts of the cartilage which are intended to be replaced by flat bones, viz. of the skull, face, and pelvis, represent a continuous layer, without