INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. 4-17 the pectoralis major and minor muscles. Another very long branch commences by two filaments, which soon unite to form a thin, flat nerve, that lies behind the plexus, as well as the axillary vessels. It descends along the thoracic side of the axillary space, resting upon the serratus magnus muscle, to which in its course it gives branches, and finally terminates by ramifying in the lower part of that muscle. This nerve, from its situation, is called the posterior tho- racic branch. Mr. Bell classes it amongst the respiratory nerves, as, according to his views, its function is to associate the muscle to which it is distributed with the general respi- ratory movements. From its situation it is named the ex- ternal respiratory nerve, to distinguish it from the phrenic, which is placed within the thorax. 438. 4. The internal cutaneous nerve, commencing at the inferior and internal part of the plexus, descends along the inner side of the arm, being the smallest and most superficial of the nerves derived from the plexus. It lies for some way covered by the fascia of the arm, and divides at a variable distance above the elbow, into two branches, which sepa- rately pierce the fascia. One of these may be observed to cross in front of the median basilic vein, and then to de- scend along the fore part of the arm, gradually inclining towards its inner side. It distributes several filaments to the skin, and maintains communications with the external cutaneous nerve, on the one hand, and the larger branch, or proper continuation of the internal cutaneous on the other, and finally ceases at the wrist. The other division of the nerve is larger than the preceding, and lies nearer to the inner condyle of the humerus. At the bend of the el- bow it inclines towards the ulnar border of the fore-arm, distributing filaments on each side as it descends, which freely ramify in the integument. Towards the carpus the nerve is necessarily much diminished, after having given off so many branches ; its final ramifications may be traced as far as the skin over the inner border of the hand. Previ- 2 E