585 AORTA—ITS BRANCHES. creas, and communicating with some small branches of the supe- rior mesenteric artery. Near the transverse fissure the hepatic artery divides into its right and left branches, which are intended for the supply of the corresponding lobes of the liver. From the right branch arises a ramusculus (cysticus), which passes along the left side of the gall- bladder to its fundus, to ramify upon its coats, and in the sub- stance of the liver. 3. Arteria splenica, in the adult, is the largest branch of the cceliac. It passes along the border of the pancreas, to which it gives several ramusculi, and near the spleen divides into seve- ral branches. Some of these enter the fissure in that organ, and are distributed to its substance ; three or four are re- flected towards the bulging end of the stomach, in which they ramify: the latter are called vasa brevia. Finally, a remarkable branch inclines from left to right, to reach the great curvature of the stomach, lying between the lamellae of the great epiploon: hence it is named gastro-epiploica sinistra. It inosculates about the middle of the curve with the gastro-epiploica dextra, which is derived from the hepatic artery. The superior mesenteric artery arises from the forepart of the aorta, a little below the coeliac. Its root separates the pan- creas from the transverse part of the duodenum; its continuation lies between the lamellae of the mesentery. This vessel at first inclines downwards, and to the left side, but afterwards changes its direction, running transversely towards the right iliac fossa, opposite to which it inosculates with the ileo-colic branch. It thus describes a curve, whose concavity looks to the right side, so that its branches may be divided into two sets, viz. those which arise from its convexity, and those from its concavity, a. Those which spring from the convex side of the vessel are all intended for the supply of the jejunum and ileum. They are usually from sixteen to twenty in number, They run parallel to one another for some way, and then each divides into two branches, each of which forms an arch, with a similar offset from the neighbouring branch. From the summit of the first set of arches, branches issue, which divide, and re-communicate in the same way, until, finally, after forming four or five such tiers of arches, each smaller