488 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. third nerve is of considerable size; it pierces the muscles, and ascends, becoming subcutaneous, and ramifies extensively on the back part of the head. The posterior branch of the second passes backwards and upwards, covered by the complexus, and resting on the rectus posticus and obliquus inferior. To these, as well as to the splenius, it gives ra- musculi, and finally becomes subcutaneous, ramifying in the skin of the occiput. 549. The first cervical nerve (sub-occipitalis, decimus cerebri) is the smallest of the spinal nerves, except the last sacral. Willis and several succeeding anatomists considered it as one of the cerebral nerves, but Soemmering, Meckel, and Bell, have on just grounds associated it with those that arise from the spinal column, because like them it arises by two roots, presents a'ganglion on the posterior one, and in its general distribution is analogous to those which succeed it. Yet, as there are some points in which it differs from them, we may regard it as intermediate not only in position, but also in conformation between the regular symmetrical nerves, and those which arise from the cranial part of the central mass. This nerve passes out between the arch of the atlas and the occipital bone, lying in the groove on the upper surface of the former, and reaches the triangular space, bounded by the recti and obliqui muscles, where it divides into an anterior and posterior branch. The latter resolves itself into four or five filaments, which are dis- tributed to the small muscles just mentioned, and to the complexus. It may be here observed, that the posterior branches of the three upper cervical nerves mutually com- municate by a filament sent from one to the other, pre- viously to their final division, so that an interlacement is formed between them, though it does not receive the name of plexus. The anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, smaller than the posterior, runs obliquely forwards upon the transverse process of the atlas, and, on reaching the an- terior surface of the spinal column, descends and joins with