AXILLARY ARTERY ITS BRANCHES. 401 lower border of the pectoralis minor, and is distributed to the mamma, serratus, and pectoral muscles, and anastomoses with the intercostal branches. f. The subscapular branch is of considerable size. It arises from the axillary artery, close by the lower border of the subsca- pularis muscle, along which it proceeds downwards and back- wards, soon becoming considerably diminished in size, owing to its giving off’ a large branch to the dorsum of the scapula. The continuation of the vessel proceeds down towards the inferior angle of the scapula, accompanied by the subscapular nerve, and lying on the muscle of that name, to which it gives branches, as well as to the serratus magnus and latissimus muscles. Its final ramifications anastomose with those of the posterior scapular ar- tery, and with its own dorsal branch. The branch just named (ramus dorsalis') passes backwards from the subscapular artery, about an inch and a half from its origin, and is larger than the continuation of the vessel. Turning round the lower border of the scapula, the dorsal branch passes first through the interval between the subscapularis and latissimus dorsi, and then between the teres major and minor, and may be always found in the fissure between the last-named muscles, immediately behind the long head of the triceps. The artery gives branches to these muscles, and on reaching the dorsum of the scapula, ramifies extensively upon it, supplying the infra spinatus muscle, and anastomosing with the supra-scapular and posterior-scapular arteries. g. The posterior circumflex artery is not so large as the subsca- pular, near which it arises. It passes backwards immediately after its origin, winds round the shaft of the humerus, lying be- tween the bone and the long head of the triceps, and terminates by ramifying in the deltoid, and on the shoulder joint, having previously communicated by branches with the anterior circum- flex, and supra-scapular arteries. h. The anterior circumflex artery is much smaller than the pre- ceding, and varies very much in its mode of origin, as it is observed to come either from the subscapular, the posterior sca- pular, or the axillary. It passes from within outwards and for- wards, between the coraco-brachialis and inner head of the biceps, and the fore part of the humerus, until it reaches the 2 D