ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 590 open into the angle formed by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. On the right side a short trunk opens into the same part of the corresponding veins; it is named the right lymphatic duct, and is formed by the junction of the lymphatic vessels of the right upper extremity, and of the corresponding side of the neck and face. (540. The dorsal nerves consist of twelve pairs; the first issues through the in vertebral foramen, between the first and second dorsal vertebrae, the last between the twelfth and the first lumbar. Immediately after their exit, each of them divides into two branches, one of which (posterior) passes backwards, between the transverse processes, and is distributed to the dorsal muscles ; the other (anterior), after communicating with the gangliac nerves, runs forwards in the corresponding intercostal space, and insinuates itself between the lamellae of the intercostal muscles, to which it gives several filaments. The terminal branches of these nerves may be traced to the forepart of the thorax, where they are finally lost; some of the lower ones extend to the abdominal parietes. From the second and third, two fila- ments, after piercing the intercostal muscles, pass across the axilla, and descend on the back part of the upper arm, and hence have been named the intercoslo-humeral nerves. The dorsal nerves are usually called the iuter- costals, from their position with regard to the ribs. 641. The oesophagus is a musculo-membranous tube, ex- tended from the lower end of the pharynx to the stomach. Commencing opposite the cricoid cartilage, to which its fibres are attached, it descends behind the trachea, de- viating, however, a little to the left side: in the thorax it rests on the vertebral column, inclining at first towards the middle line ; but as it descends it will be observed gra- dually to incline forwards and to the left side, so as to reach the oesophagean opening in the diaphragm. Whilst in the neck, the trachea and recurrent nerves lie in front