ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 286 the other, turns forwards a little, so as to come into contact with the spermatic cord, or round ligament, which it ac- companies through the abdominal ring, being distributed to the cremaster muscle and the investments of the testis in the male, some of its filaments extending also to the neigh- bouring parts of the groin, and in the female to the labia and pubes, b. The external branch inclines outwards in front of the external iliac vessels, just at their termination, passes beneath the crural arch, and divides into several filaments, which ramify in the inguinal region and front of the thigh, some of them becoming subcutaneous. 305. 4. The crural nerve (nervus femoralis, Soemm.; femoro-pretibial, Chauss.) arises from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, the greater part being derived from the two last; in some instances also it receives a small filament from the first, or from the communicating branch that passes between it and the second. The nerve thus formed is of considerable size, and is situated at first deeply, in the sulcus between the contiguous margins of the psoas and iliacus muscles. As it descends it comes forwards some- what, so as to become apparent, though it still remains co- vered by the fascia iliaca, and is guided to the crural arch by the psoas muscle (its external border) which separates it from the iliac artery. In this course the nerve gives from its external side several small filaments to the iliacus mus- cle ; internally some also pass over the iliac vessels, and others to the psoas muscle. Amongst the latter, one may be observed to take a retrograde course, running from be- low upwards on the muscle. Close to Poupart’s ligament, or immediately after it has passed beneath it, the anterior crural nerve spreads out and divides into a lash of branches which diverge to their different destinations, and may be divided into a superficial and deep set, the former piercing the fascia, and becoming subcutaneous, forming the cuta- neous nerves of the anterior and inner parts of the thigh, the latter remaining covered by that membrane.