TRANSVERSUS PEDIS. 233 tarsal extremity of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, also from the sheath of the peroneus longus muscle, and is inserted conjointly with the external head of the flexor brevis pollicis, into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. The adductors of the great toe, and its short flexor, are thus found to be intimately united at their insertion, and if they be cut across about an inch behind the first joint, and reflected forwards, two small sesamoid bones will be found embedded in their structure, just as the patella is in the extensor tendons of the knee joint. Like the latter bone, one of their surfaces is smooth, and enters into the compo- sition of the articulation, being lined by the synovial mem- brane, and like it they are developed in the substance of the tendons, to increase their power of action. 259. The transversus pedis (metatarso-sous-plialangien du police, Dumas) is a narrow flat fasciculus of fleshy fibres, stretched beneath the digital extremities of the me- tatarsal bones, being interposed between them and the flexor tendons. Its external extremity is attached usually to the lateral ligament connecting the fifth metatarsal bone with the first phalanx of the little toe, sometimes it com- mences at the fourth; it passes from without, inwards, to- wards the ball of the great toe, where it becomes blended with the fibres of the adductor pollicis. 260. The flexor brevis digiti minimi {meiatarso-phalan- gien du petit orteil, Dumas) placed at the external side of the sole of the foot, it arises tendinous from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the sheath of the peroneus longus; the fleshy fibres terminate in a tendon, which is inserted into the base and external border of the first pha- lanx of the little toe. Direction—horizontally forwards: structure—fleshy in the middle, tendinous at the extremi- ties : relations—its superior surface is in contact with the fifth metatarsal bone; the inferior is covered partly by the abductor digiti minimi, partly by the plantar fascia.