ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 372 intercostal muscles, and part of the serratus posticus supe- rior; the other is subcutaneous in the angular interval between the pectoralis and latissimus dorsi; higher up it is covered by both the pectoral muscles; in the rest of its extent it is in relation with the subscapular muscle and the axillary vessels. The greater number of its fibres will be observed to converge towards the angles of the scapula, particularly the lower one. Combined actions.—The most obvious actions of these muscles are exerted upon the shoulder and arm, as being their more move- able points of attachment. The pectoralis major, conjointly with the latissimus dorsi and teres major, depresses the humerus, if it has been previously elevated; it then conspires with them in pressing the arm closely to the side, and continuing the same effort, will by itself trail it along the side and front of the chest. The pectoralis minor draws the point of the shoulder downwards and inwards to the thorax. If the arms be fixed, these muscles act on the ribs, and assist in dilating the chest. This is frequently observed during the forcible efforts at inspiration made by asth- matic persons; the arms are rendered fixed, by seizing hold of some object, and so every muscular effort is called into play that can elevate the ribs. When the scapula is rendered fixed by the trapezius and rhomboid muscles, the serratus acts on the chest in the same w7ay as the pectoral muscles do; but its most ordinary action is to draw the base and inferior angle of the scapula for- wards, so as to elevate the point of the shoulder by means of the rotatory motion it can impress upon it conjointly with the trape- zius, as has been observed when treating of the latter muscle. The continuation of the same effort retains the shoulder elevated, as when a burden is sustained upon it; but, as a preparatory measure, the thorax must be fixed. This is effected by taking a full inspiration, so as to distend the chest, the lower border of which is kept fixed by the abdominal muscles and diaphragm, at the same time that the glottis is closed, to prevent the escape of the air. This adjustment of the containing and contained parts of the thorax can of course exist but for a very short time, the included air must be expired in order that it may be renewed, and