342 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. naeum which lines the aperture, and, thus invested, descends into the tubular prolongation sent down, round the femoral vessels, from the membranous lining of the abdomen. After descending for about an inch and a half, its progress down- wards is arrested ; and if the quantity of intestine protruded increases, the tumour turns forwards through the saphenous opening, in the fascia lata. There its direction becomes altered again, as it is made to ascend obliquely inwards, lying in front of the iliac portion of the fascia lata (its falci- form process), and even of Poupart’s ligament; so that it forms, by its different turns, a curve whose concavity looks upwards. Having thus described the progress of the intestine, we are prompted to inquire what are the circumstances in the structure of the parts through which it passes, which de- termine these changes in its direction. Having descended to the point above indicated, the tumour is checked by the narrowing of the tube in which it is enclosed. This, though wide above, where its inner border is separated at a considerable interval from the femoral vessels, gradually contracts so as to come into close contact with them; and where it does so it must become intimately connected with them by the vasa vasorum. The lower border of the sa- phenous opening is also closely applied to the sheath of the vessels in this situation; and as the pubic portion of the fascia lata passes behind, whilst the iliac arches in front of it, any extraneous substance that may pass down in the sheath would be constricted by that arrangement of the fascia, even if the connexion between the vessels and the sheath were not sufficient to produce such an effect. These causes limit the descent of the intestine, and determine its passage forwards through the saphenous opening, where comparatively little resistance is given. But, it will be asked, why does the hernia turn upwards ? why does it not rather descend in front of the thigh, lying between the skin and the fascia lata? more especially as, from its exit out of