PERONEAL ARTERY. 257 neum, run three tendons, as well as the posterior tibial ves- sels. Their relative position may be stated as follows the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum run close to the inner malleolus ; a quarter of an inch behind these is the tibial artery, the nerve being a little posterior to it, and finally about half an inch farther back towards the heel, is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. In its course along the leg, this artery gives several branches to the contiguous muscles, particularly to the tibialis posticus and the long flexors. In the superior third of its extent, a considerable branch (nutritia magna tibice, Soemm., Murray) passes for- wards to the tibia, and then, by an oblique course through the nutritious foramen in that bone, reaches the medullary membrane, on which its branches ramify. 277. The peroneal artery [arteria peronea) is situated deeply along the posterior part of the leg, taking the direc- tion of the fibula; hence it is sometimes called jibular. It arises from the posterior tibial, from an inch to two inches below the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and de- scends almost perpendicularly towards the external ankle. Running for a while parallel and on the same plane with the posterior tibial artery, it lies on the tibialis posticus muscle, and is covered for the same distance by the soleus ; as it descends, it inclines outwards to the fibula, and corresponds with the angle of union between it and the interosseous li- gament. In this part of its course it is concealed from view by the flexor longus pollicis, to which it gives branches, as well as to the adjacent muscles, and also one to the sub- stance of the fibula (arteria nutritia fibulae). On reaching the lower extremity of the interosseous ligament, which is about two inches, or a little more, above the external ankle, the artery usually divides into two branches, named, from their situation, anterior and posterior peroneal. a. The anterior peroneal branch passes forwards through the aperture in the interosseous ligament, and so reaches the fore- * See Harrison, Surgical Anatomy of Arteries, vol. ii. p. 189.