548 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. outwards, to be inserted into the corpus cavernosum; whilst the intervening or middle fibres turn round the canal of the urethra, and become tendinous on reaching its upper surface, upon which they unite with those of the corresponding muscle, thus forming a tube. If an inci- sion be made over the bulb, so as to cut through the fibres of the muscle, and if one half be then carefully reflected outwards, its points of attachment will be readily seen ; after which, if the urethra be cut across, and reflected downwards, the union of the middle part of the muscle on its upper surface will be brought into view. 607. The erector penis (ischio-cavernosus) is a flat, thin muscle, resting on the crus penis and corpus cavernosum. It arises from the inner side of the tuber ischii, from which its fleshy fibres proceed obliquely upwards and in- wards, and become tendinous on reaching the corpus cavernosum, into whose fibrous sheath they are inserted. The inferior surface of the muscle is covered by the skin and fasciae; the superior is in contact with the crus and body of the penis, whilst, between its inner margin and the accelerator, a groove exists, in which the superficial peri- naeal artery is lodged. 608. The levator ani is a thin broad muscle, placed obliquely across the outlet of the pelvis, which it assists in closing. Its origin cannot be distinctly stated without making reference to two membranes between which it is placed, and from whose line of union most of its fibres are derived. The obturator internus muscle occupies the whole space from the internal border of the obturator fora- men to the sciatic notch. The upper half of this muscle is lined by the pelvic fascia, prolonged down, as has been al- ready stated, as far as to a line extended from the sym- physis pubis to the spine of the ischium, where it is re- flected upon the levator ani, which guides it to the side of the rectum and bladder. The lower part of the obturator muscle is also covered by a fascia, but more dense and