405 BRACHIAL ARTERY. insignificant ramusculus, called anastomoticus magnus or major. The first branch may, with propriety, be named “profunda,” from its situation, or “ spiral,” from its direction; and the two others “ collateral,” from their relation to the artery itself; so they were named formerly by Winslow, and still by Boyer. 421. The description above given of the course, rela- tions, and mode of division of the brachial artery, is strictly conformable with what obtains in the greatest number of instances. Some varieties however occur which deserve notice. The vessel not unfrequently divides as high as the middle of the arm, or even higher, or rather gives off one of its two leading branches, which most commonly is the radial. On this subject, Meckel states, as the re- sult of his observations, that when the radial artery arises in the arm, it usually commences towards the middle point, but that the anomalous division of the ulnar, though less frequent in its occurrence, takes place in most in- stances higher up, even as high as the point at which the axillary terminates in the brachial. A variety not hitherto noticed by any writer, (so far at least as the author is ac- quainted with their works) lately presented itself in the dissecting-room in Aldersgate Street. It was at first taken for the ordinary high division of the ulnar artery. The two vessels descended from the point of division at the border of the axilla, and lay parallel with one another in their course through the arm, but instead of diverging, as is usual, at the bend of the elbow, they converged and united so as to form a short trunk, which soon divided again into the radial and ulnar arteries in the regular way. If such a conformation existed in a case that required the ligature of the brachial artery, for an aneurism at the bend of the arm, it would embarrass the operator in no small degree. A similar variety in the course of the femoral artery occurred in the practice of Mr. Charles Bell.* * Hunterian Lectures at the College of Surgeons,