PI A MATER. 637 of the brain, between the inner margin of the middle lobe and the crus cerebri, the pia mater enters the inferior cornu of the ventricle, where it corresponds at first with the in- terstice between the corpus fimbriatum and crus cerebri, and afterwards lies along the floor of the ventricle, in which it ascends upon the thalamus nervi optici, and unites at the foramen or fissure of Monro with the plexus of the other side. At its entrance into the ventricle the plexus is drawn together so as to resemble a small vascular bundle, and becomes invested by the arachnoid membrane, which, by its reflection from the sides of the ventricles to the plexus, maintains the integrity of the cavity. Where the pia mater is prolonged on the medulla oblongata, it forms a small plexus, which enters into the fourth ventricle, and be- comes also invested by a duplicature of the arachnoid. As the membrane descends into the spinal canal it becomes firm, resistant, and much paler in colour. Its inner sur- face is in close contact with the medulla, the exterior is but slightly connected to the arachnoid, and the nerves, at the different points at which they pass outwards, derive from it their immediate investment, or neurilema. The difference of character here pointed out between the spinal and cerebral parts of the pia mater, appears to M. M. Jules and Hippolite Cloquet sufficient to induce them to consider it as a distinct structure. But it would be difficult to shew where the continuity of the membrane is interrupted ; and as to any difference of character and consistence that may appear, they are merely such as may be supposed to arise from the different circumstances in which the membrane is placed. In the spine it is exposed, in a considerable de- gree, to the influence of motion and pressure, which ne- cessarily produce the same effect on it as on cellular tex- tures elsewhere; that is to say, they render it thick and lamellar. Again, superiorly it is in contact with grey sub- stance, in the spine with white, so that we can readily account for the difference of the vascularity in the mem-