392 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. ligament. The fleshy belly derived from these attachments soon ends in a tendon, which, like the others, is bound down by the annular ligament, and runs through the narrow oblique groove at the middle of the carpal end of the ra- dius, and is finally inserted into the base of the second phalanx of the thumb. Whilst passing along the groove, its tendon is separated from those of the other extensors of the thumb, by the breadth of the interval which lodges the radial extensors, but it gradually inclines towards them, as it proceeds to its destination. 405* The extensor indicts is nearly of the same size as the preceding muscle, whose lower border it accompanies. It arises from the posterior surface of the ulna, about its middle, also from the interosseous ligament. The tendon, which is continued from the muscular part, passes, together with the common extensor, beneath the annular ligament, comes into contact with the digital tendon of the latter, which is destined for the index finger, and unites with it to form the tendinous expansion by which both are inserted into the posterior surface of the phalanges. Combined Actions.—These muscles act on the hand and fingers in the first instance, and then, by a continuance of their effort, on the fore-arm, which they assist in extending. The common ex- tensor, as well as those of the thumb, the fore-finger, and little finger are, from their situation and attachments, the direct anta- gonists of the flexors ; the latter, however, being, from their size and number, the more powerful agents. If the bones of the thumb be drawn inwards to the palm, as when an object is firmly grasped, their extensor muscles may, by reason of the obliquity of their direction, assist in supinating the hand. Their names indi- cate their more ordinary action. The anconeus assists the triceps in extending the fore-arm. The muscles of the hand, like those of the foot, admit of being divided into three sets or groups, viz. those of the thumb, those of the little finger, and thirdly, those placed in the middle of the palm.