TIIE BRAIN—CORPUS CALLOSUM. 615 The external surface of the crura consists of white mat- ter, which is about two lines thick, and presents a distinctly fibrous character: within this is inclosed a quantity of gre^ substance, so dark as to have received the name of locus niger. The arrangement of these structures can be readily seen by making a transverse section of the crus : the dark part is found to be convex inferiorly, and con- cave above, so that the section of it presents a lunated form. The optic nerves rest upon the external surface of the crura as they pass forwards to their commissure. 659. All the parts of the brain hitherto noticed can be examined without any division of its texture, as they are placed superficially, but several are inclosed within its in- terior which cannot be seen without dissection. Between the hemispheres, and extending transversely from one to the other, is placed the corpus callosum (mesolobe; com- missura magna cerebri) ; its form is that of an elongated layer of medullary fibres, placed horizontally, but nearer to the anterior than to the posterior margin of the brain. Its extent from before backwards is about three inches, but its breadth from side to side cannot be assigned, as it becomes blended with the substance of the hemispheres. Its superior surface is convex in its general outline, and concealed by the hemispheres, which overlap it. When these are removed a superficial linear impression will be perceived exactly in the middle line, and at each side of it a slight longitudinal elevation. To this the term raphe, or suture, is applied, as it indicates the point at which the union of the hemispheres takes place when their develop- ment is being completed. The inferior surface of the cor- pus callosum forms the roof of the lateral ventricles on each side, and towards the middle line it rests on the fornix, with which it is blended posteriorly : in front it gives attachment to the septum lucidum. Its anterior ex- tremity, which when viewed externally presents a rounded border, is prolonged downwards and backwards to the