540 elements of anatomy. adjusted, a transverse incision may be made from the costal carti- lages at one side, across to the opposite, and a second from one crista ilei to the other. These will include the middle zone of the membrane, which we shall trace first, leaving the others untouched. A. The umbilical portion of the peritonaeum lines the inner sur- face of the muscles, and if traced backwards, into the right lumbar region, will be found, after passing in front of the kidney, to come into contact with the posterior surface of the colic vessels, along which it is reflected to the ascending colon, investing it for three-fourths of its circumference, and so reaches the anterior surface of its vessels, on which it is, as it were, guided in front of the spine and the large vessels, until it reaches the root of the me- senteric artery. There a change of direction occurs, for the mem- brane is reflected along that artery and its branches, to the small intestines, (jejunum and ileum,) which it coils round to reach the under surface of the vessels, and so to pass back again to the point of reflexion, thus forming the mesentery. From the base of this fold we follow the membrane into the left lumbar region, where it is si- milarly disposed round the left colon and its vessels, as at the op- posite side, and having reached the abdominal parietes, it lines them even to the umbilicus, whence we set out. Thus we find on either side two folds, (meso-cola,) which bind the corresponding parts of the large intestine along the lumbar regions, and inclose the colic vessels. The large duplicature, (the mesentery,) corres- ponds by its greater circumference with the whole length of the jejunum and ileum, to which it is conducted by the mesenteric vessels, which it incloses, together with the lacteal absorbents and their glands, whilst its base or point of reflexion extends ob- liquely across the spine, from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, down to the right sacro-iliac symphysis. Previously to commencing the examination of the lower division of the perito- naeum, it may be well to mark off the part already inspected, by drawing a line across it on the spine, and another at each side in the iliac fossae. B. The hypo-gastric portion of the membrane is differently dis- posed along the middle line from what it is on the sides, so that each part must be reviewed separately. To facilitate its examina- tion, it will be found convenient to insulate, by two perpendicular incisions, the middle strip, which corresponds with the recti