427 UPPER EXTREMITY—ITS DISSECTION. ther narrow fasciculus. As they extend over the palm of the hand, they gradually diverge, so as to form rather a broad membrane. Its anterior border presents four pro- cesses, corresponding with the metacarpal bones of the fingers, and at their digital extremities, each divides into two thin fasciculi, which diverge to be inserted into the la- teral ligaments of the first joint of the fingers, and into the heads of the metacarpal bones. The angular interval formed by the divergence of these processes, serves to transmit the flexor tendons, and the digital branches of the vessels. Dissection of the upper extremity.—The subject being laid on its back, and the arm drawn away from the side, an incision may be made through the skin, commencing at the middle of the clavicle, and extended down to the centre of the axilla. From this another line may be drawn, downwards and inwards, along the lower border of the pectoralis major. The angular flap thus included, should then be raised from off the muscle just named, its dissec- tion being conducted from without inwards to the fore part of the sternum, so as to expose the muscle. It may be necessary to make another incision through the skin, along the clavicle, to the sternum, from the point above indicated. The external flap of skin may then be dissected off the remainder of the pectoral muscle, and part of the deltoid. When the external surface of the pectoralis major has been examined, it may be detached easily by drawing forwards its lower border, and inserting the scalpel between it and the costal cartilages, and cutting through its at- tachments to them, as well as to the sternum and clavicle, succes- sively. The muscle may then be drawn outwards, and the fold in its tendon examined. The pectoralis minor is thus exposed, and the brachial vessels partly. The costal attachment of that muscle may be separated in the same way as the other. The axillary vessels are by these measures brought fully into view', little else remaining to be done than to remove the cellular tissue in which they are embedded. When commencing the dissection of the arm, an incision may be made from the middle of the interval between the folds of the