221 PERONEUS BREVIS. surface of the external malleolus, where it is covered by a fibrous lamella extended from the end of the fibula to the calcaneum, and invested by a common synovial membrane. The tendons then separate, that of the peroneus longus proceeds in another groove on the external surface of the calcaneum, to which it is connected by a separate fibrous sheath. It then enters a groove on the cuboid bone, where it changes its direction, and inclines forwards and inwards beneath the foot, to be inserted into the tarsal end of the first metatarsal bone. Structure—tendinous at the lower, aponeurotic at the upper extremity, fleshy in the middle: relations—in the leg it corresponds by the outer surface with the fascia of the leg, by the inner surface with the fibula, extensor digitorum communis, and peroneus brevis ; by the posterior surface, with the soleus superiorly, and flexor longus pollicis inferiorly. When passing across the foot, the tendon runs close to the bones, and therefore above all the plantar muscles. 243. The peroneus brevis (moyen per outer, Bichat; grand peronien-sus-metatarsien, Chauss., Dumas) is situated on the external side and lower part of the leg. Form—similar to that of the preceding muscle, but not so long. It arises from the external surface of the fibula, for about the lower half of its extent, and from the intermuscular septa which dip in between it and the contiguous muscles. The tendon passes behind the external malleolus, in the same groove and sheath, and is invested by the same synovial membrane with the preceding muscle, and is inserted into the base of the last metatarsal bone, after having traversed a separate groove in the calcaneum, situated above that for the tendon of the peroneus longus. Structure—tendinous at the lower extremity, fleshy superiorly: relations—by the outer sur- face with the peroneus longus and fascia of the leg; by the inner surface with the fibula, the extensor digitorum lon- gus, the peroneus tertius, and flexor longus pollicis mus- cles.