289 THE SACRAL NERVES. scends, so as to come into contact with it as they approach the thyroid foramen, through which they pass out from the pelvis, and reach the upper part of the thigh. In this situation the nerve lies deeply between the pectineus and obturator externus muscles, and divides into two branches, one lying on a plane anterior to the other, the adductor brevis being in fact interposed between them. a. The anterior branch descends under cover of the pectineus, and divides into two ramusculi, one of which is given to the adductor brevis, the other to the adductor longus and gracilis, b. The posterior, or deeper branch passes backwards as it descends between the adductor brevis and magnus, giving filaments to both, as well as to the obturator externus. 307. 6. The communicating nerve (nerf lombo-sacre, Bichat) is the last off-set from the lumbar plexus, and in size is larger than either of the preceding nerves. It is made up of the whole of the anterior branch of the fifth pair, and of the connecting branch sent down from the fourth. It passes backwards in front of the sacro-iliac symphysis to reach the pelvis, where it joins the first sacral nerve, and so contributes to form the sacral plexus, at the same time that it forms the connecting link between it and the lumbar plexus. Before its termination it gives off the gluteal branch ([nervus gluteus), which is the only one that arises from it. It turns outwards beneath the border of the sciatic notch, and above the pyriformis muscle. On reaching the exterior of the pelvis, the nerve is covered by the gluteus maximus, to the substance of which it distri- butes branches, as well as to the other muscles of the same name, and so may be said to terminate. 308. The sacral nerves, five, and not unfrequently six in number, arise from the extremity of the medulla spinalis, which, it may be observed, ceases in the adult subject oppo- site the second lumbar vertebra. The fasciculi, which compose the roots of these nerves, must therefore descend u