82 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the last, but it exceeds all the others very considerably in thickness. The second is the longest, and the rest de- crease successively in length. In all, the thickness of the extremities, particularly of the tarsal ends, is greater than that of the bodies. Though the form of the bodies is very irregular, they may, like the metacarpal bones, be consider- ed as presenting a dorsal, a plantar, and two lateral sui’faces. Tbe dorsal surface of all is covered by the tendons of the extensor muscles, the extensor brevis digitorum, and the vessels and nerves; that of the first is broad, inclined in- wards, and bounded externally by a prominent line; in the last it looks outwards, and is bounded on the inner side by a like line. In the others are observed analogous lines, placed in the middle, and separating the attachments of the interossei muscles. The plantar surface corresponds to the deep-seated muscles of the foot, and to ligaments serving to connect those bones. That of the first is broader than any of the others. The lateral surfaces form the interosseous spaces, and give attachment to the interosseous muscles. The tarsal extremity presents, in the first, an oval concave surface, broader above than below, articulating with the first cuneiform bone, and inferiorly a tuberosity for the at- tachment of the peroneus longus; that of the second meta- tarsal bone, triangular in its form, is, in consequence of the shortness of the corresponding cuneiform bone, impacted between the two other bones of that name, gives attach- ment to ligaments, articulates behind with the second cu- neiform bone, on the inner side with the first metatarsal bone, and on the outer with the second. The tarsal end of the third, also triangular and smaller than the preceding, receives the insertion of ligaments on its upper and under surfaces, and articulates posteriorly with the third cunei- form bone, on the inner side with the second metatarsal bone, on'the outer with the fourth. The extremity of the fourth metatarsal bone, cubical in its form, is connected by ligaments to the adjacent bones, and articulates with the