ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 154 fected through the medium of ligaments, as no part of their surfaces come into contact. 107. The odontoid ligaments (ligamenta alaria) are two thick bundles of fibres attached below to each side of the summit of the odontoid process, and passing up diverging to be implanted into the rough depression at the inner side of the condyles of the occiput, and also to a small part of the margin of the occipital foramen. Their direction there- fore is obliquely upwards and outwai’ds; the triangular interval which they thus leave is filled by some thin fibres passing almost perpendicularly from the margin of the fo- ramen to the summit of the process. These are strictly check ligaments; the middle set last described prevent what may be termed a retroversion of the head, whilst the lateral pair check its rotatory motions. 108. The occipito-axoidean ligament seems to be a pro- longation of the posterior common ligament; it is attached above to the inner surface of the basilar groove, from which it descends perpendicularly, becoming narrow, and oppo- site the axis is blended with the posterior common ligament. It covers the odontoid process and its check ligaments, and is intimately connected with the transverse ligament. 109. The articulation of the axis with the atlas is effect- ed not only by means of their articulating processes, as oc- curs in other vertebrae, but also by the odontoid process of the latter, which is connected in a particular manner with the arch of the former, and constitutes the pivot on which the head turns in its rotatory motions. There are three ligaments and four synovial membranes in this articulation. 110. The transverse ligament (ligamentum Atlantis trans- versum, Weit. Soemm.) is a strong, thick fasciculus of fibres, compressed from before backwards, arched in its direction, and attached on each side to the inner border of the superior articulating processes of the atlas. From its posterior sur- face a short, thin bundle of fibres passes down to be at- tached to the roof of the odontoid process, whilst another