ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 340 small portion of the membrane, over the inferior and ante- rior part of the tumour, between the fore-finger and thumb of his left hand, and then, by gently rolling it between them, he easily distinguishes if any intestine be included; if so, he raises a fresh portion.”* The slight rotatory mo- tion of the fingers here directed will in most cases suffice to insulate the membrane from the intestine; and when this is done, the fold compressed between the fingers may be divided by the scalpel, or by the scissars, so as to make a small opening for the admission of the director. Whilst the director is being introduced and passed up towards the ring, its grooved border should be carefully kept in close apposition with the inner surface of the sack, lest by any means a part of the intestine should insinuate itself between them, and be divided, as the scalpel runs along the groove. It now only remains, so far as the operative part is con- cerned, to ascertain the seat of the stricture, and to divide it. For this purpose the fore-finger of the left hand is passed into the hernial sack, to the point at which it becomes constricted, which will be found in one or other of the three following situations, and may be stated in the order of their frequency as follows: 1. At the internal ring, in the mouth of the sack : 2. In the canal itself, about an inch or a little more within the external ring, the compression being formed by the lower border of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, where they arch over the neck of the tumour : 3. At the external ring, which is much less frequent than the others. The finger having reached the strictured part, a probe-pointed bistoury is to be passed along it, its side resting on the palmar surface of the finger; and when it has been conducted beneath the stricture, the edge should be turned forwards, “ so that the division of the stricture should be made in a direction parallel with the line alba, that is to say, directly upwards.” In performing this part of the operation, the only thing to be apprehended is the division of the epigastric artery. It will be recollect- * Sir Astley Cooper’s Lectures, edited by F. Tyrrell.