ELEMENTS OP ANATOMY. 558 inch to reach the urethral foramen, after which it turns somewhat upwards. Moreover, the part of the urethra between the root of the penis and the neck of the bladder will be found loose and re- laxed, no matter with what degree of force the penis be drawn forwards, for that will affect only the part of the urethra which corresponds with the body of the organ, as must be evident when the attachments of the latter to the bones, by its suspensory liga- ment and crura, are considered. The tension will, by these at- tachments, be confined to the spongy portion of the canal, and cannot be propagated thence to the bulbous or membranous. This constitutes an objection to the use of straight catheters. The empirical lithotomists were in the habit, when introducing a catheter, of directing its curve downwards, and so passing it on until it reached the bulb, when they rotated the handle of the instrument upwards, so as to turn its cavity towards the pubic arch, at-the same moment pushing it into the bladder. This ma- noeuvre, which was termed “ tour de maitre,” formed part of a system of evolutions calculated to throw an air of importance over their proceedings, at the same time that, by rendering even the first step of the operation difficult, it contributed not a little to secure to themselves the profits arising from its performance. If, after laying bare the urethra and the fascia, as above directed, a catheter be passed down, with its concavity turned towards the perinaeum, we shall find that as the turn is being made, the point of the instrument will describe an arch of a circle, carrying the urethra with it round the margin of the urethral foramen. Whilst this movement is made, if the urethra be kept perfectly tense, no impediment will occur to the passage of the instrument; but it should be observed, that at that moment the attention of the operator is divided between two objects, viz. the rotation of the instrument, and the keeping of the urethra tense, so that it usually happens that the latter is forgotten at the moment that it should be most vigilantly attended to. On this account it is that the manoeuvre is found so difficult of execution, as it requires a consentaneous action of both hands, which can be attained only by considerable practice. But it really does not facilitate the introduction of the instrument in the slightest degree ; and if the motion of its point be carefully watched at the time that the turn is being made, it