258 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. part of the leg; it then descends along the border of the pero- neus brevis, and sends several branches outwards to the external ankle, which anastomose with the external malleolar branch of the anterior tibial, and forwards on the dorsum of the foot, to commu- nicate with the dorsalis pedis branch of the same artery. Some of its ramifications also extend to the outer border of the foot, where they communicate with the external plantar and posterior peroneal arteries. b. The posterior peroneal branch follows the course of the trunk, of which it is an offset, running behind the external ankle, to reach the outer surface of the calcaneum. On arriving at the lat- ter situation, it divides into several branches, some of which pass backwards to anastomose with the posterior tibial, others down- wards to the border of the foot, and terminate in the muscles of the little toe, the rest forwards on the tarsus, communicating with the anterior fibular branch, and with the tarsal branches of the anterior tibial. 278. The size and distribution of the fibular artery vary considerably in different instances; in some the posterior tibial is wanting, the popliteal appearing to divide into an- terior tibial and fibular, the latter being double its usual size. In such cases, when the vessel reaches the lower part of the leg, it sends inwards a considerable branch, which taking the course of the posterior tibial artery round the inner ankle, terminates in the plantar branches. In other instances the anterior tibial artery is very small, and its dorsal branch necessarily too diminutive to carry on the circulation on the foot. The anterior fibular branch is then of considerable size, and supplies its place. When the posterior tibial artery reaches the hollow of the calcaneum, and gets under cover of the internal annular ligament and the origin of the abductor pollicis, it divides into the two plantar arteries, named* from their position, in- ternal and external. 1. The internal plantar artery, much smaller than the other, turns directly forwards, so as to form, when the body is in the erect position, a right angle with the vessel from which it arises.