ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 426 them by two membranous septa (intermuscular ligaments) prolonged from its inner surface to the bone, and separating the anterior from the posterior muscles. The one on the outer side of the arm extends up to the insertion of the del- toid muscle, the other reaches to that of the coraco-bra- chialis. When traced upwards, the fascia becomes thin and weak where it covers the deltoid, but yet it can be ea- sily recognized as far as the spine of the scapula, into which it may be said to be inserted. Internally it is connected somewhat with the tendons of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, and stretches across the folds of the axil- lary space, but gradually becomes thin, and degenerates into cellular substance, where it is prolonged towards the serratus magnus. 447. The fascia of the fore-arm is continuous all round with that of the upper-arm, but is much more dense and firm, being composed of fibres that interlace in almost every direc- tion. Posteriorly it binds down the extensor muscles, being intimately connected with their fibres, as well as with the intermuscular septa placed between them; anteriorly it covers the two groups of muscles placed on the ulnar and radial borders of the fore-arm, being at the same time stretched across that angular interval into which the bra- chial vessels and biceps tendon sink, as they proceed to their destinations. In this situation it is strengthened by a process derived from that tendon. Inferiorly it may be said to terminate by becoming inserted into the annular ligaments (anterior and posterior). (Sect. 156, 157.) The hand is also covered by a membranous investment, which on the dorsal surface is thin and weak, being pro- longed to the phalanges of the fingers from the posterior annular ligament. But that in the palm is dense and firm, and called the palmar fascia, being analogous to the fibrous structure which sustains the muscles in the sole of the foot. The palmar fascia arises from the annular ligament, where its fibres are collected into a thick and ra-