277 POPLITEAL VEIN. to the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. In the leg we usually find two veins, one on each side of the artery, from which circumstance they are named vence comites, venae sa- tellites. The anterior and posterior tibial veins (the latter having previously received the peroneal) unite near the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and form by their junction the popliteal vein. 290. The ‘popliteal vein, thus formed, receives branches corresponding with the articular vessels; but its chief branch is the external saphena vein. This vessel (vena sa- phena exterior vel minor) commences by several irregular branches on the dorsum of the foot. These unite into a trunk, which turns round the outer ankle, and gradually in- clines backwards to the tendo Achillis. Passing along the border of the tendon, it gets on the belly of the gastrocne- mius muscle, on which it ascends, accompanied by the ex- ternal saphenous nerve, with which it runs between the heads of the gastrocnemius, and pours its contents into the popliteal vein. In its course through the ham, the popliteal vein is placed posterior and exterior to the artery, that is to say, between it and the nerve. Thus situated, it passes up through the aperture in the adductor magnus, and becomes continuous with the femoral vein. 291. The femoral vein extends, like the artery which it accompanies, through the upper two-thirds of the thigh. Placed at first behind that vessel, it gradually inclines in- wards and forwards, so that on reaching Poupart’s ligament (where it terminates in the iliac vein) it lies on the inner side, and on the same plane as the artery, being separated from it only by a slight lamella that passes from before backwards, across the membranous tube which invests them. In the lower part of its course, the vein receives all the ve- nous branches that accompany the ramifications of the ar- teries. In the upper part, the profunda vein opens into it, which returns the blood from all that part of the muscular structure of the thigh supplied by the profunda artery ; it