THE SCAPULA. 87 angle to the glenoid cavity. This is divided into two parts, by an oblique linear impression; the posterior division, flat and nearly quadrilateral, giving origin to the teres major; the anterior to the teres minor; whilst the line of division between them marks the attachment of an aponeurosis, com- mon to these muscles, and to the infra-spinatus. Of the three borders the superior is the shortest; at its fore part is situated a notch, which is converted into a fora- men by a ligament, and is traversed by, sometimes, the supra-scapular vessels and nerve, but, usually, by the nerve alone. In front of this opening it is surmounted by the coracoid process, which is an elongated eminence, curved on itself. This process, superiorly convex and unequal, gives attachment to the coraco-clavicular ligament; anteri- orly to the pectoralis minor muscle; posteriorly to the co- raco-acromion ligament; and by its extremity to the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. The posterior, or vertebral border, named also the base of the scapula, superiorly ap- proaches to the vertebral column ; inferiorly it is more con- siderably removed from it. It is slightly rounded; and, for the purpose of more easily assigning the attachment of the several muscles which are connected with it, we may regard it as divisible into two margins, with an interspace. The postero-superior angle is formed by the junction of the base and superior costa of the scapula; it is somewhat inclined outwards. The inferior angle is placed at the union of the base with the axillary, or inferior border of the bone; upon it may be observed an elongated flat surface, which gives origin to the teres major, and over which slides the latissimus dorsi muscle. At the convergence of the supe- rior and inferior borders may be observed a narrow part, denominated the neck, which gives attachment to the fi- brous capsule of the shoulder joint, and is surmounted by the articular surface of the bone called the glenoid cavity. This is a shallow, oval depression, broader below than above, covered with cartilage in the fresh state, and deepened