180 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. invested in nearly their entire extent by the synovial mem- brane. 180. The synovial membrane, like all similar structures, forms a shut sac, whose surface is continuous throughout its entire extent, and as it lines the contiguous surfaces of all the parts entering into the composition of the knee joint, it must necessarily present rather a complex arrange- ment. This complexity is increased by the existence of a small funnel-shaped fold (improperly named ligamentum mucosum) which is stretched across the joint from the lower border of the patella to the margin of the fossa, between the condyles of the femur. It is this process which renders the anatomical arrangement of the synovial membrane so similar to that of the peritonaeum and arachnoid membrane. When tracing its reflexions in order to show its continuity, it becomes necessary to examine them along the median line, which will include the ligamentum mucosum, and then at each side. In order to exhibit the arrangement of the membrane fully, the joint should be laid open by a vertical incision carried along the inner margin of the patella and its ligament, leaving the ligamentum mucosum untouched ; after which the inner condyle of the femur, and inner half of the head of the tibia, should be removed by a similar in- cision, with a saw carried from above downwards. For this purpose the bones should be successively fixed in a vice. A lateral view of the joint being thus obtained, all the parts remaining in their natural position, it will be observed that the membrane is divided into two parts by a transverse funnel-shaped process (ligamentum mucosum) the superior one elongated and pyramidal, projects by its summit more than an inch above the patella, its base corresponding with the breadth of the process just named. The inferior divi- sion of the membrane is quadrilateral, one side being made up of the lower border of the same process, and the smooth surface of the femur with which it is continuous; another by the articulating surface of the tibia ; posteriorly it cor-