452 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. form an angular depression, into which is received the thyro-liyoid ligament; the posterior presents an angle, to which are attached the inferior extremity of the epiglottis, the thyro-arytaenoid muscles, and the chordae nocales. 480. The epiglottis resembles in form a cordate leaf. It is a thin lamella of fibro-cartilage, placed between the base of the tongue and the glottis, which it covers during de- glutition. It is broad, and somewhat round at its upper border, but inferiorly becomes pointed and prolonged by means of a narrow fibrous band to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, where it is attached. The upper or lingual sui'- faee is free only in part of its extent, the rest being con- nected by the mucous membrane with the root of the tongue, so disposed as to form three small folds or fraena. The inferior or laryngeal surface is slightly concave from side to side, and convex from above downwards. The lateral borders are connected to the arytaenoid cartilages by two folds of the lining membrane which form the sides of the glottis. 487. These different parts are united by the following ligaments: 1, the cornicula of the thyroid cartilage are bound to the sides of the cricoid by scattered fibres and synovial membranes; 2, the lower border of the cricoid cartilage is connected by a layer of membrane with the first ring of the trachea; 3, its upper border is attached hy a similar membrane to the thyroid cartilage in front, and pos- teriorly to the arytaenoid by synovial membranes, and some thin fibres—crico-arytceno'id ligaments; 4, from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage a broad lamella (tliyro-liyoid membrane) passes to that of the os hyoides, by which ar- rangement the top of the larynx is allowed to slip within the circumference of that bone when it is drawn upwards. The great cornua of the cartilage are also connected with those of the os hyoides by two round fasciculi, which are enclosed by the lateral borders of the lamella just noticed. 488. Besides these, we find on each side, extended from