573 THE LUNGS-—THEIR STRUCTURE. mately prolonged through the bronchial ramifications. Where the cartilaginous rings are deficient, the mucous membrane is supported by some longitudinal fibres, and beneath it we also find a series of muscular fibres resembling those of the intestinal canal. These are disposed transversely, so as to connect the extremities of the cartilaginous rings. The bronchi and their primary ramifications are made up of the same constituents as the trachea, but the rings are found gradually to lose their annular form, and to degenerate into lamellae of irregular shape, placed in different parts of the circumference of the canal. At the several points of subdivision, however, they are still somewhat annular, so as to keep their orifices open. The rings thus gradually dis- appear, so that at the ultimate divisions of the bronchi they no longer exist, nor are they required, for the air which distends the vesicles is never altogether excluded from them. So far as the bron- chi are cognizable by our senses, they appear to consist of materials analogous to those found in the larger tubes, but gradually reduced to the greatest degree of tenuity. If they be injected with quick- silver, the globular form of the vesicles, and the cylindrical form of the ultimate ramusculi which terminate in them, are rendered mani- fest; and as the mucous membrane is prolonged into the vesicles forming their lining, it is a legitimate matter of inference, from the various facts disclosed by the general anatomy of tissues, that the fibrous lamellae and muscular structure extend- to them also. In support of this inference it may be urged, that if the lungs were simply passive, and therefore incapable of contributing to the expulsion of the air, the subsidence of the thorax upon them would only press the air out of the parts near their surface, but could exert little influence over those which are deeper seated. Besides, if one side of the thorax of a living animal be opened, the degree in which the lung becomes diminished is greater than that which is ordinarily produced by the weight of the atmosphere. This indicates a contractile, and even an irritable power in the organ. 2. The pulmonary artery arises from the base of the right ven- tricle of the heart, from which it proceeds upwards and towards the left side for the spaee of about two inches, where it bifurcates into its right and left branches. It partially conceals the aorta at