ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 210 muscle, partly sub-cutaneous. It arises from all that space on the outer surface of the ileum, which is inclosed be- tween the external margin of its crista and the semi-circular line extended between the anterior superior spine and the sacro-sciatic notch. From this extensive origin the fleshy fibres as they descend converge to a short thick tendon, which is blended anteriorly with that of the gluteus minimus, and posteriorly in many instances with the pyriformis, after which its fibres are inserted into the broad external surface of the trochanter major, and somewhat into its upper bor- der. Direction-— the anterior fibres extend obliquely back- wards, the posterior obliquely forwards, the middle perpen- dicularly : structure—tendinous at the inferior attachment, fleshy in the rest of its extent: relations—part of the ex- ternal surface is covered by the gluteus maximus, the rest by the fascia lata; the inner surface rests on the ileum and gluteus minimus; the posterior border is in relation with the pyriformis muscle and the gluteal vessels; the anterior is intimately connected with the tensor vaginae femoris, by means of the fascia lata. 228. The gluteus minimus, (petit ilio-trochanterien, Chauss.; ilio-ischii-trochanterien, Dumas) is situated on the inferior part of the dorsum ilei. Form—radiated,broad above, narrow below. It arises from all that space on the dorsum ilei between the superior curved line and the in- ferior one, which extends immediately above the brim of the acetabulum. From this origin the fibres converge as they descend, and end in a short tendon, which is inserted into the anterior border, and somewhat into the external surface of the great trochanter, where they are blended with those of the gluteus medius. Direction—the middle fibres are vertical, the anterior are inclined backwards, the posterior forwards, converging to the common tendon: structure—fleshy in the greater part of its extent, tendinous at its insertion: relations—by its external surface with the gluteus medius ; by the internal with the dorsum ilei, with