RECTI CAPITIS POSTICI. 365 attention were confined to the action and power of the superficial muscles (trapezius and latissimus) and no consideration made of the deep-seated ones, it might be hastily concluded, that as by giv- ing the latissimus dorsi and trapezius a fixed point of action at the humerus, they are enabled to rectify casual curvatures, induced during various motions of the body, so in the pathological condi- tion of the spine, they may, by the same means, be enabled to exert a similarly beneficial influence. But the remarks here offered point out the fallacy of such a conclusion, and indicate at the same time the necessity of suspending, as much as possible, the action of the muscles of the right side, in cases of left lateral curvature, and vice versa, and of exerting in a moderate degree those of the opposite side. These observations are made, chiefly with a view to attract a greater degree of attention to the anatomy of this part of the muscular system than is usually paid to it. 365. The rectus capitis posticus major (axoido-occipital, Chauss.) is situated along the middle line, close to the ver- tebrae, extending from the spinous process of the axis to the under surface of the base of the skull. It arises by a pointed origin from the process just mentioned, and, gra- dually enlarging as it ascends, is inserted into the inferior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. It diverges some- what from the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, and is covered by the complexus. 366. The rectus capitis posticus minor (atloido-occipital) extends from the atlas to the base of the skull, being smaller every way than the preceding. It arises from the posterior border of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface, between the inferior curved ridge, on the occipital bone, and the foramen magnum. It lies nearer to the middle line than the preceding muscle, and can therefore be seen without disturbing it. 367. The obliquus capitis inferior (axoido-atloidieri) is placed obliquely between the two first cervical vertebrae. It arises from the spinous process of the axis, between the origin of the rectus posticus major, and the insertion of the