ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 684 communicate with the cavernous sinuses, pass backwards and outwards along the upper margin of the pars petrosa, and termi- nate in the lateral sinuses, d. The inferior petrous sinus, com- mencing at the same point as the preceding, passes outwards and downwards between the lower border of the pars petrosa and the basilar process, and terminates at the jugular fossa. e. The transverse sinus extends across the basilar process, and forms a communication between the petrous sinuses of opposite sides. 673. The veins which return the blood from the spine, and the parts contained within its cavity, present some peculiarities which distinguish them from those in other situations. Proceeding from the posterior surface of the spine to its anterior aspect, we find first a series of tor- tuous veins placed deeply in the vertebral grooves, between the extensor muscles; in the next place a complete net- work of veins surrounds the spinal canal at its interior sur- face, and two venous reservoirs extend along its entire length, not resembling sinuses (for they are not formed in the dura mater), nor ordinary veins, for they do not present a continuous canal; they resemble rather a chain of short veins linked together, receiving the blood from the other rachidian veins, and transmitting it to some part of the ge- neral venous system ; there are also many veins which issue from the bodies of the vertebrae. The great spinal veins (veines meningo-rachidiennes, Chauss.; Breschet) lie along the interval at each side between the bodies of the vertebrae and the inter-vertebral foramina. In some parts the links of the chain which they form are double, or even triple, and occasionally detached from any connexion with the link above or that below, which shews that each portion is, as it were, a se- parate trunk by itself, receiving the blood on the one hand, and propelling into the general circulation on the other, and that it therefore does not ascend or descend along the column which the series of veins forms. Each of these venous links is as long as the interval between two inter-vertebral foramina; for it is found