ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 338 inclines upwards and outwards, in the direction of the spine of the ileum, the vas deferens and the spermatic vessels ly- ing behind it. In the direct descent, the tumour may be traced upwards in the direction of the umbilicus, and the cord will be found to its external side, and partly in front of it. 343. Now, if the previous question here raised be deter- mined, and if the case has been decided to be an oblique inguinal hernia, it remains for the surgeon to restore the intestine, by the taxis, if possible; if not, by an operation. Previously to making any effort at reduction, the abdominal muscles should be relaxed as much as possible, which can be done by approximating their points of attachment. With this view, the body being placed in the recumbent posture, the shoulders should be raised and supported, and the thighs bent on the pelvis, that of the affected side being also inclined a little inwards, to lessen the tension exerted on Poupart’s ligament by the iliac portion of the fascia lata. So far, a knowledge of the anatomical connexion of the parts points out the propriety of placing the body and the limbs in a particular position, rather than in any other. In the next place, the tumour being taken hold of steadily with one hand, and elevated somewhat towards the ring, compression should be made on its neck with the two first fingers and thumb of the other, followed by an effort to push it upwards and outwards, that is to say, in the direction of the inguinal canal. These measures should be employed until hopes of success fail, or until it is no longer safe to continue them, from their tendency to excite or increase inflammation, in parts placed under circumstances which dispose them to run very speedily into that condition. When all efforts at reduction prove fruitless, the operation must necessarily be resorted to, and the sooner it is done the better. When placed on the operation table, the shoulders should be raised in the same way as whilst the taxis was being performed, but the legs must be allowed to