ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 218 terior and inner part of the tarsus, being bound down by the anterior annular ligament. 238. The extensor proprius pollicis, (peroneo-sus-pha• langettien du pouce, Chauss.) is situated between the tibia and fibula, at the fore-part of the leg. Form.—elongated, broad in the middle, pointed at the extremities. It arises from the anterior surface of the fibula, for about the middle third of its extent, and from the contiguous surface of the interosseous ligament, nearly as far as the ankle; the fleshy fibres run obliquely forwards into a tendon placed at the anterior border of the muscle, which after passing beneath the annular ligament, and along the dorsum of the foot, is inserted into the base of the second phalanx of the great toe, having also an intimate connexion with the first: structure—tendinous below, fleshy superiorly : relations— by the outer surface with the extensor digitorum communis, by the inner with the tibialis anticus and the anterior tibial vessels; the anterior border is overlapped for some way by the muscles on each side, and is covered inferiorly by the anterior annular ligament, under which it passes in a sepa- rate groove, and by the integuments; the posterior border corresponds with the fibula and interosseous ligament, and passes over the broad flat part of the tibia, the anterior tibial vessels, and ankle joint. 239. The extensor digitorum longus (peroneo-sus-pha- langettien commun, Chauss.) is situated at the anterior part of the leg, and on the dorsum of the foot. Form—elon- gated, it is divided inferiorly into four tendons. It arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia, from the head of the fibula, and from the surface beneath it, for about two- thirds of its length, also from the interosseous ligament from the aponeurotic septa intervening between it and the muscles on either side, and from the fascia of the leg. The fleshy fibres from this extensive origin, pass obliquely into three flat tendons, placed on the fore part of the muscle; these descend beneath the annular ligament, and on the