331 HERNIA—FASCIA TRANSVERSALIS. inasmuch as they are derived from their connexion with pathological conditions of the parts, or, in other words, with certain forms of hernia. Thus the tubular prolonga- tion, already noticed as descending upon the femoral ves- sels, has been termed the fascia propria of crural hernia; and that which passes along the spermatic cord, has been by some considered as the fascia propria of inguinal her- nia. With this general view of that structure, which we have here ventured to term the membranous lining of the abdominal parietes, we proceed to describe, seriatim et sin- gulatim, the different portions into which it is usually divided. 338. 1. The fascia transversalis has been so called by Sir Astley Cooper, (who discovered it) from its being placed behind the transversalis muscle, which it lines. Some de- gree of confusion occasionally arises from the use of this term. For whilst describing the different parts of this region, we are obliged to speak of the transversalis muscle, —the conjoined fibres of the transversalis and internal oblique—the aponeurosis of the transversalis, and, finally, of the fascia transversalis. The repeated use of the same term, in so many different acceptations, produces no small degree of perplexity, particularly to students at the com- mencement of their pursuits. We may then take one step at least towards removing a source of embarrassment to our- selves, at the same time that we make a due acknowledg- ment to the individual whose researches have thrown so much light on the anatomical structure of the parts con- nected with hernia; and as he was the first who discovered and described the membrane now under consideration, it may with great propriety be called fascia Cooperi. The fascia transversalis, or fascia Cooperi, then, is a thin smooth membrane, closely adhering to the transversalis muscle; along whose inner surface it may be traced, in many in- stances, upwards as far as the margin of the ribs, gradually becoming thinner as it ascends above the umbilicus; down-