23 4 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 261. The interossei, as their name implies, are plaeed between the metatarsal bones, filling up the intervening spaces. There are seven in all. On the dorsal aspect of the metatarsus, four of these muscles are perceptible, but still they dip down into the sole of the foot, where the other three are altogether situated; hence it is, that in the latter situation, their appearance and arrangement are some- what complex. 262. The dorsal, or superior interossei (sus-metatarso- lateri-plialangiens, Dumas) closely resemble one another in appearance and mode of attachment. Their fibres arise from the contiguous surfaces of the bones between which they are placed, and pass obliquely forwards to a slight ten- don that runs along the centre of each, so that they form a double penniform muscle, the posterior extremity of which is bifid, leaving an angular interval for the passage of the perforating branches, which pass from the plantar to the dorsal arteries. The two first dorsal interossei belong to the second toe, being inserted, the one into the internal, the other into the external side of its first phalanx. The third is inserted into the external side of the first phalanx of the third toe, and the fourth terminates in like manner in the first phalanx of the corresponding toe. 263. The plantar or inferior interossei (sous-metatarso- lateri-plialangiens, Dumas) are not, strictly speaking, si- tuated between the metatarsal bones, they are placed rather beneath the third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, in- clining somewhat towards their inner border. 264. 1. The first plantar interosseous muscle arises from the internal border of the third metatarsal bone. The fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the third toe, becoming blend- ed with the tendinous expansion of the extensor com- munis. 2. The second plantar interosseous muscle arises from the inner side of the fourth metatarsal bone, and is inserted