166 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. tending obliquely from the anterior surface of the coronoid process, downwards and outwards, to be implanted on the radius, about half an inch below its tubercle. The direction of its fibres is therefore altogether different from that of the fibres of the interosseous ligament. 136. In the inferior articulation of the radius and ulna, the former rotates on the latter as its point of support, the articulating surface of the radius being concave, that of the ulna convex. The bones are connected anteriorly and posteriorly by some fibres passing between their extremi- ties, so thin and scattered, as scarcely to admit or require description, but internally they are joined by a fibro-carti- lage and a synovial membrane. 137. The fbro-cartilage, placed transversely between the bones, is attached by its base to a rough line separating the carpal from the ulnar articulating surfaces of the radius, and by its summit to a depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna. Its superior surface looks towards the head of the ulna, the inferior to the cuneiform bone; both are smooth and lined by synovial membrane; the in- ferior one by the large membrane of the wrist joint, the su- perior by a small one peculiar to the radio-cubital articula- tion. Its two borders are connected with the carpal liga- ments. As the radius rolls on the ulna, this cartilage is carried with it, and forms its chief bond of union with the latter bone. 138. The synovial membrane is frequently called mem- bruna sacciformis, though there is nothing in its conforma- tion which distinguishes it from other synovial sacs. It may be considered as presenting two parts, or sacculi, one pro- jecting perpendicularly upwards into the articulation of the radius and ulna, lining the contiguous surfaces of each, the other placed horizontally between the head of the ulna, and the corresponding surface of the fibro-cartilage lining them also; both however, are formed by a continuous mem- brane.