ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 178 like fasciculus of fibres, which passes from the tuberosity of the external condyle of the femur, to the head of the fibula; its direction is vertical, but it is placed nearer the posterior than the anterior surface of the joint; its internal surface corresponds with the synovial membrane and the external articular arteries, the external being covered by the tendon of the biceps flexor cruris, and the expanded fascia of the extensor muscles. Posterior to this, but parallel with it, another ligament is placed, connecting the same points of the femur and fibula; it is called the short external lateral ligament. 177. The posterior ligament (ligamentum posticum) broad and expanded, is a flat plane of fibres, stretched obliquely behind the articulation, from the internal tuberosity of the tibia to the external condyle of the femur. The direction of the greater part of its fibres is from below upwards and outwards, running diagonally across the joint, being evi- dently continuous with the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle, of which they may be regarded as a prolongation. This ligament, however, cannot be considered as formed solely by a reflexion of the tendon of the semi-membra- nosus, or merely as the third insertion of that muscle, for several transverse and perpendicular fibres are observed in it, distinct from those of the reflected tendon. A number of apertures may be observed between its fibres, which transmit the articular vessels. 178. The crucial or oblique ligaments (ligamenta cru- ciata) are placed at the posterior part of the joint, external to the synovial membrane, but partially invested by it. As the name imports, their direction is oblique, so that they cross or decussate somewhat like the lines of the letter X, the posterior one however approaches more nearly a per- pendicular direction: of these one is anterior, the other posterior. The anterior is fixed by one extremity to a pit, situated before the spine of the tibia, where it is connected with the anterior cornu of the internal semi-lunar carti-