S V M PATHETIC N E R \r ES. GG9 subclavian artery inclines backwards, to reach the posterior sur- face of the aortic arch, where it terminates in the cardiac plexus, 1 he inferior cardiac nerve arises from the last cervical ganglion, by several filaments which pass behind the subclavian artery, but afterwards cross in front of the aorta, the greater number of its filaments reaching the anterior coronary plexus, the rest joining with the preceding. On the leftside the inferior cardiac neive is larger than the others. 704. The thoracic ganglia, as has been said, lie on the heads of the ribs, covered by the pleura. Considering' each of them as a centre from which branches proceed, we observe a branch of communication passing upwards to the ganglion above it, and downwards to that below it, so as to continue the series. Externally one or two filaments pass from each to the contiguous intercostal nerve, so as to connect the nerves of organic with those of animal life. The internal branches from the five first ganglia pass to- wards the middle line, some reaching the side of the trachea, and ending in the pulmonary plexus; others ra- mifying on the oesophagus and aorta. But the anterior branches from the sixth to the ninth, and sometimes to the tenth inclusively, pass obliquely downwards and inwards on the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, and unite into a single trunk (nervus splanclinicus major), which passes in a slight longitudinal fissure between the fibres of the crus of the diaphragm, and terminates in the semi-lunar gang- lion. The anterior branches of the tenth and eleventh unite into a small nerve (splanchnicus minor), which pierces the crus of the diaphragm external to the larger nerve, with which it communicates by branches, and finally terminates in the renal plexus. The abdominal part of the sympathetic nerve consists of the semi-lunar ganglia, and the primary and secondary plexus which issue from them; and, secondly, of the direct continuation of the nerve.