ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 138 The femur, placed securely beneath the pelvis, affords a firm support during progression. The great breadth of the pelvis serves to enlarge the base on which the trunk rests ; and this is farther increased by the length of the cervix femoris. This pecu- liarity in the neck of the femur renders it necessary that the body of the bone should incline inwards, in order that its axis should approach the central line, and so support the centre of gravity. If its articular head be viewed in profile, it will be observed that the cartilaginous coating is distributed for the most part on its upper and inner aspect, showing its adaptation as a pillar of support in the erect position. The bones of the pelvis in the human subject are distinguished from those of other animals by some marked peculiarities. The sacrum is remarkably broad and expanded, so as to form a firm support for the spinal column which rests upon it; its lower part is curved and articulated with the coccyx, so that both incline for- wards and enclose the cavity, constituting a support for the vis- cera when pressed down by muscular action. If a different ar- rangement of these bones obtained, if they were continued down- wards in a straight line, they would project beyond the ischia and render the sitting posture irksome or impossible. The spinal column, which is supported on the pelvis, is pecu- liarly adapted to the erect attitude. Its pyramidal form and en- larged base fit it to sustain the superincumbent weight; and by means of the different curvatures which it presents, a considerable range of motion is allowed to the trunk, the centre of gravity being still supported within the base. The form of the thorax is also peculiar. Shallow and compressed from before backwards, it is broad and expanded from side to side, by which means the preponderance of the trunk forwards is considerably lessened. The sternum, though broad, is very short, so that a considerable space intervenes between it and the pubis, which is occupied solely by muscular parts. The thorax in quadrupeds is compressed and flattened laterally, becoming gradually narrower towards the sternum, which is prominent and keel-shaped, so that the breadth from this latter bone to the spine is much greater than that from side to side. This conformation, together with the absence of clavi- cles in true quadrupeds, enables the anterior extremities to ap- proach closely together, and fall perpendicularly downwards be-