389 EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM. downwards and outwards to the insertion of the pronator radii teres. It is altogether concealed by the supinator longus and the extensors. Combined Actions.—These are the direct antagonists of the pro- nators of the hand, and flexors of the wrist. If the hand be pre- viously pronated, the supinators, by rolling the radius on the ulna, turn the palm supine, but the extent and power of action of each differ considerably. The supinator longus, notwithstanding its length and size, can act but feebly in supinating the hand, inas- much as its direction is parallel with that of the radius ; its direc- tion and attachments indicate it to be a flexor of the fore-arm. The supinator brevis, both by its direction and mode of attach- ment, is by far the more efficient agent in moving the radius on the ulna. The action of the radial extensors is fully indicated by their name; if their effort be continued they assist in extending the fore-arm on the arm. The muscles situated on the posterior aspect of the fore- arm are the anconeus, the extensor communis digitorum, extensor carpi ulnaris, and extensor minimi digiti, which are superficial; whilst the rest are deep-seated, viz., the three extensors of the thumb, the extensor indicis, and the supinator radii brevis, which has been already described. 398. The anconeus is placed immediately behind and beneath the elbow joint, being a small triangular muscle. It arises by a tendinous and fleshy point from the extremity of the outer condyle of the humerus, at its posterior aspect. From this the fibres proceed, diverging from one another, the upper ones being horizontal, the rest passing with in- creasing degrees of obliquity, but all are inserted into the radial aspect of the olecranon, and adjacent border of the ulna itself. It is superficial in its entire extent, and lies below the triceps extensor, with which it conspires in its action. 399. The extensor communis digitorum lies along the posterior part of the fore-arm. It arises by a tendon com- mon to it, the extensor carpi ulnaris, and extensor radialis