HERNIA—ITS DIFFERENT SPECIES—THEIR DIAGNOSIS. 33? matter of the first consequence to detei’mine this point with certainty, and without any delay; for on it depends, not only the success of the efforts made to reduce the hernia, by what is called the taxis, but also the propriety and manner of performing every step of the operation requisite for the relief of a strangulated intestine, from the first inci- sion through the skin to its final completion. This ques- tion can be determined only by ascertaining with accuracy the position of the neck of the tumour, and then carefully tracing out its relation of place, or its position wiih regard to Poupart’s ligament. If the tumour be of moderate size, so that the finger may be passed along the ligament, from the tuberosity of the pubis outwards, little doubt can remain as to whether it lies below or above its border. But a large inguinal hernia will obscure this part, by its descent, and a large crural one by its ascent; for when the latter has passed down for some way, it turns up towards the abdomen, lying on Poupart’s ligament, and so occupies the situation of the other species. But if such a tumour can be drawn down a little, by making it slide between the skin and fascia, its point of exit can at once be determined. And if, in the other form of the disease, the tumour be pushed a little up- wards and inwards, so that the situation of its neck can be ascertained, and the ligament defined, as above suggested, a satisfactory conclusion will at once be arrived at. Suppose it to be decided that the tumour lies above Poupart’s liga- ment, and therefore, that it is an inguinal hernia, we have seen that its descent may be along the course of the ingui- nal canal, or it may pass straight forwards through the ex- ternal ring, constituting, in the former case, an oblique, in the latter, a direct inguinal hernia. It is indispensably ne- cessary, as well in reference to the taxis, as to the operation, to distinguish even these, though so closely allied. The situation of the spermatic cord, the direction of the tumour, and also its form, furnish sufficient data on which the diag- nosis may be established. In the oblique form, the tumour z