TIBIALIS ANTICUS. 217 the gracilis and fascia lata, by the outer border with the sci- atic nerve. Combined Actions.—These are usually called the ham-string muscles, as they enclose the ham, or space at the posterior aspect of the knee joint; the biceps being placed at its external side, the other two at the internal. Their direct action is that of flexing the leg on the thigh, and this they do directly backwards, when they conspire in their action, but if they be made to act alternately, the leg will be rotated slightly inwards or outwards; the latter motion, however, can only take place in the semi-flexed positior of the limb. In the standing posture, these muscles, by taking their fixed point below, will act on the pelvis so as to prevent its flexion forwards, and if the effort be continued, they will draw it directly backwards, and commence that series of muscular actions observable in tumbling, and other feats of activity, in which the body is thrown backwards so as to form an inverted arch. Muscles on the anterior and external part of the Leg. 237. The tibialis anticus (tibio-sus-tarsien, Chauss.) is situated at the front of the leg. Form—elongated, thicker above than below. It arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia, and from about two-thirds of the flat surface be- neath it, from a small portion of the interosseous ligament, from the fascia of the leg, and an aponeurotic septum sepa- rating it from the extensor digitorum communis muscle, and is inserted into the internal surface of the first cunei- form bone, and the contiguous extremity of the first me- tatarsal bone : direction—downwards, and a little inwards : structure—fleshy in the two upper thirds, tendinous in the lower: relations—the upper, or fleshy portion, corresponds in front, with the fascia of the leg, to which it is adherent behind with the interosseous ligament, on the fibular side with the extensor digitorum communis, and extensor pro- prius pollicis, from which it is partly separated by the ante- rior tibial vessels. The tendon crosses obliquely in front of the lower end of the tibia, the ankle joint, and the an-