ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 52 backwards, and on the anterior surface of their tubercular termination, is situated a slight excavation, which in the fresh state is tipped with cartilage, and articulates with the tubercles of the ribs. The articular processes are vertical in their direction, the superior ones looking backwards, the inferior forwards. The lateral notches, and consequently the inter-vertebral foramina which they form, are larger than those in the neck. c. The lumbar vertebrae, five in number, are larger than the dorsal. The body broader from side to side, than from before backwards, is flat on its superior and inferior sur- faces. It is not so convex anteriorly as that of the dorsal vertebrae. The spinous process is broad, flat, and nearly of a square form, so that' it terminates not by a pointed extre- mity, as in the other regions, but presents rather a thick, rounded, and rough border. The arches, though shorter, are deeper and thicker than those of the dorsal vertebrae. The transverse processes long, thin, and horizontal, project forwards more than those of the back. The articulating processes are thick, strong, and disposed vertically, the su- perior pair concave, look inwards, the inferior convex, out- wards. The notches and inter-vertebral foramina are very large. 35. The first, second, and seventh cervical vertebrae present certain characters which distinguish them from the others. The first, or Atlas, so called from supporting the head, is an irregular ring of bone, which presents nothing analo- gous either to the body or spines of the other vertebrae. It is thicker at the sides where the articular processes are si- tuated, than in any other part of its extent; viewed from before backwards, it presents a small arch of bone, the an- terior surface of which is marked by a tubercle, the poste- rior by a smooth depression, adapted to the odontoid pro- cess of the axis. The posterior segment of the ring is con- siderably larger; it is thick and round in the greater part