356 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. tion to the head, but in a direction contrary to that of the splenii, as must be evident from the fact, that the fibres of the one incline outwards as they ascend, and those of the other inwards. 356. The term erector spince may with much propriety be applied to that long, intricate interlacement of muscular fibres, which in the lumbar region forms a thick mass that fills up the vertebral groove, but which along the back be- comes divided into two parts, viz. the sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi. The muscle arises, 1, from the spinous and transverse processes of the four inferior lumbar verte- brae ; 2, from all the spines of the sacrum, as well as its lateral parts; 3, from the sacro-iliac ligaments, and from the posterior third of the crista ilei. At its origin from the sacrum, it is tendinous; where it corresponds with the loins, the external half is fleshy, the internal aponeurotic. Oppo- site the last rib, the muscle becomes separated into the parts, above mentioned, by a cellular interval. 357. 1. The sacro-lumbalis, or rather (if its attachments be considered) the lumbo-costalis, proceeds upwards, forming the exterior part of the erector spinae, inclining a little out- wards as it ascends, at the same time becoming narrower, inasmuch as it deposits, as it were, upon each rib part of its fibres. These end in tendinous processes, which are in- serted into the angles of the six or seven lower ribs, and so the muscle (at least the part of it that can be traced up from the lumbar region) should be considered as terminating, but that a series of accessory fibres begin to be placed along its inner side, by which it is prolonged to the neck. These bundles of fibres, which are overlapped by the inser- tions of the muscle itself, commence at the angles of the ribs by tendinous points, that soon become fleshy, and pass up over one or two intercostal spaces, to be inserted suc- cessively into the angles of the superior ribs, and so the chain of continuity is maintained along the thorax. Inti- mately united with these may be observed another and larger fasciculus of fibres, by which the muscle is prolonged