THE CEREBELLUM—ITS LOBES. C21 parts, from the cerebrum. It is lodged in the recess formed between the tentorium cerebelli and the inferior occipital fossae, its size, as compared with that of the brain, being as 1:8. Its surface, instead of convolutions, is divided into a number of concentric lamellae, placed perpendicu- larly on their edges, and inclosed one within the other. If the sulci between them be opened, several other lamellae v will be found inclosed within them, but smaller and more irregular. The cerebellum is divided into two lateral lobes, the division being established behind by a fissure, which receives the falx cerebelli, and in front by a deep excavation, which lodges the medulla oblongata. The supe- rior surface is slightly depressed on each side, where the tentorium rests upon it, but along the middle line a rounded ridge (processus vermiformis superior) runs from befox*e backwards, and seems as if produced by the rippling up, or admixture of the folia of the lobes, as they extend from without inwards. There appear to be from sixty to seventy folia on the upper surface of the cerebellum, which are aggregated into five fasciculi. The inferior surface is convex, and dips down into the occipital fosste ; along the middle line runs the inferior vermiform process, interposed between the lateral lobes; it resembles a lobule formed of short transverse folia ; its anterior extremity has been com- pared to a mammillary process. The mass of medullary matter enclosed within the cerebellum is connected with three pairs of medullary fasciculi. From the interior of the lobes two fasciculi (processus e cerebello ad testes) pass forwards and upwards to the lower pair of the tubercula quadrigemina; they converge in their ascent, and are con- nected by a semitransparent medullary lamella (valvula Vieusseni). The valve presents on its upper surface a slight groove, running from above downwards, and sometimes a linear ridge, like a raphe; it overhangs the fourth ven- tricle. Two processes pass obliquely upwards and out- wards from the medulla oblongata into the cerebellum,