HERNIA—OBLIQUE—DIRECT. 327 as forming investments to the cord. They have been taken in the order in which the cord and testis come into contact with them, whilst passing from the abdomen down into the scrotum. Should a portion of intestine be forced through the internal ring into the canal, and so down into the groin, it will, during its progress, clothe itself in these same invest- ments, together with another derived from the peritonaeum, which it pushes before it, at the moment of its exit. Hence it is, that the anatomist describes these structures in the order in which they are super-imposed upon the cord, or the hernial sack; the surgeon, on the other hand, enumerates them in the order in which they successively present them- selves to his scalpel, whilst he is dividing them during an operation. 335. When the intestine follows the course of the canal, the tumour which it forms is denominated, from its situa- tion and direction, oblique inguinal hernia. In such cases the neck of the sack lies close to the external side of the epigastric artery, on which account Hesselhach has applied the term hernia externa to that form of the affection now under consideration. On the inner side of the epigastric artery a triangular space will be observed, its sides being formed by that vessel, and the external border of the rectus muscle, and its base by the crista of the pubis and the part of Poupart’s ligament intercepted between its tube- rosity and the epigastric artery. Across the area of this space are stretched the conjoined fibres of the internal ob- lique and transversalis muscles, which, even with the addi- tion of the fascia transversalis, v/ould form an inadequate support to the viscera in this situation, particularly as the external oblique cannot lie evenly upon them, owing to the interposition of the cord. By a little attention a number of white tendinous fibres may be observed to pass obliquely upwards and inwards from about the inner fourth of Pou- part’s ligament, as well as from the crista of the pubis ; and after crossing the area of the triangular space, to terminate