ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 586 than the other, the ultimate branches proceed directly to the in- testines, and ramify in their coats, b. The branches from the right side of the mesenteric artery are given to the large intestine. The first, or ileo colica, (taking them in their order from below upwards,) inclines downward, and to the right side, towards the ileo-colic valve, near which it divides into two branches ; of these, one arches down, to inosculate with the termination of the mesen- teric artery itself, and from the convexity of the arch branches go off to the intestines, particularly to the valve; the other branch ascends, and inosculates with the following branch: the colica dextra passes transversely to the middle of the ascending colon, opposite to which it resolves itself into two branches, of which one descends to communicate with the preceding, whilst the other ascends to join in an arch with the succeeding: the colica media passes upwards to the transverse colon, and divides in a manner exactly similar to the vessels just noticed. One of its branches inclines to the right, where it inosculates with the preceding ves- sel; the other descends to the left side, and maintains a similar communication with the colica sinistra, derived from the inferior mesenteric artery. From the arches of inosculation thus formed, branches pass to the intestine, for the supply of its coats. The inferior mesenteric artery arises from the aorta, about an inch above its termination. It inclines downwards to the left iliac fossa to reach the sigmoid flexure of the colon, from which it descends into the pelvis, and, under the name of superior haemorr- hoidal artery, passes behind the rectum. Its branches are, a, colica sinistra, which, close by the descending colon, divides into two branches, similar to those of the colic vessels of the opposite side. One of these branches passes upwards along the colon, and inosculates with the descending branch of the colica media. The descending branch passes along the sigmoid flexure, to which it sends ramusculi (sigmoidei). These sometimes arise separately from the colica sinistra. The continuation of the vessel having assumed the name of hcemorrhoidalis superior, lies in the fold of the meso-rectum, and ramifies in the coats of the intestine, com- municating witli the middle and inferior haemorrhoidal arteries. We shall find, on even a slight inspection, a continued chain of anastomosis, from one end of the alimentary canal to the other.