173 THE SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS. 163. The 'posterior sacro-sciatic ligament, (lig. sacro-is- chiadicum majus, Weit. Soemm.) elongated, broad and tri- angular, is placed at the inferior and posterior part of the pelvis, whose lower aperture it assists materially in closing. Its base or broader part is attached to the postero-inferior spine of the ileum, and the side of the sacrum and coccyx, whilst its other extremity is fixed to the under surface of the tuber ischii, where it expands somewhat, and. sends upwards and forwards along the margin of the ramus, of that bone, a falciform process, which presents one surface looking towards the perinasal space, and the other resting on the internal obturator muscle and pudic artery. The posterior surface of this ligament gives origin to part of the gluteus maximus; the anterior is covered partly by the small sacro-sciatic ligament. 164. The anterior or small sacro-sciatic ligament, {lig. sacro-ischiadicum minus, internum, Weit. Soemm.) is at- tached by its base to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, where its fibres are blended with those of the great liga- ment, and by its apex to the spinous process of the is- chium; its form is triangular, the direction of its fibres forwards and outwards. The spinous process of the is- chium, its tuberosity, and these two ligaments, bound an oval interval, through which the obturator internus muscle passes out from the pelvis ; but above the border of the an- terior ligament, is a larger oval opening, bounded before and above by the margin of the ileum and ischium, and be- hind by the great ligament, which transmits the pyramidalis muscle, the great sciatic nerve, the gluteal and ischiadic arteries. 165. The posterior sacro-iliac ligaments consist of three or four sets of short irregular fibres, extended transversely, between the posterior rough surface of the sacrum, and the adjacent part of the crista ilei; one of these extends from the posterior inferior spinous process of the latter, and is called the posterior spinous ligament; they are all placed