GREAT SPINAL VEINS. 635 constricted at both extremities, which communicate by short nar- row canals with the veins at the forepart of the spine. In the thoracic region they open into the azygos and intercostal veins, in the loins into the lumbar veins, in the neck for the most part into the vertebral. A complex interlacement of tortuous veins is established along the inner surface of the arches of the vertebrae. In the lower part of the canal the interlacement is not so close as in the upper por- tion, where it usually conceals (if the injection has run minutely) the whole surface of the dura mater. These veins also converge to the inter-vertebral foramina, and open by rather narrow channels into the intercostal veins. The numerous foramina observable in the bodies of the vertebrae give exit to veins (veines basi-vertebrales) which open into the great spinal veins. Another group of veins (veines dorsi-spinales, Breschet) arise amongst the extensormuscles, and pass in a tortuous course forwards, to reach the spaces between the arches of the vertebrae, and open into the mesh of the spinal veins, after having pierced the ligamenta sub-flava. Some of these, how- ever, accompany the posterior branches of the lumbar and inter- costal arteries, and with them pass through the spaces between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, to open into the lumbar or intercostal veins. These veins literally encircle the roots of the transverse processes. The veins that issue from the medulla spi- nalis can seldom be injected so as to shew their distribution ac- curately. They are small and tortuous, and form a mesh, by fre- quent unions and separations on both surfaces of the medulla. From this net-work small veins issue, and accompany the nerves in their course to the intervertebral foramina, where they ap- pear to terminate in the great spinal veins. In other parts of the venous system the blood flows in vessels, forming continuous tubes, which diminish in number as they in- crease in size in their progress towards the heart, each tributary current joining, in most instances, at an acute angle with the larger one into which it flows. But here the blood from the muscles, and from the interior of the spine, is conveyed into the great spinal veins, which are wider in the middle than at their ex- tremities, and therefore resemble so many reservoirs, from which it flows off by outlets, or minor veins, terminating in the general