ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 144 jaw, are joined by immoveable articulation, or synarthrosis) (aw, together, apOpov, articulation) of which there are se- veral forms. a. The first is called suture (sutura, a seam). In the true suture the union is effected by indentations in the con- tiguous margins of bones being mutually received into one another, as may be seen between the two parietal, the occi- pital, and frontal bones, any varieties that occur being re- ferrible to the form of the prominences. Thus when they are tooth-shaped, the suture is termed sutura dentaia; if like the teeth of a saw, sutura serrata; if the adjacent bor- ders be bevilled off, as where the temporal and parietal bones are applied to one another, it is called a squamous suture (sutura squamosa). In some parts it may be ob- served that the mode of union and adaptation are alter- nated, in order to increase their power of resistance. Thus, at the superior part of the arch of the skull, the frontal over- lays the parietal bones, and rests on them, but inferiorly and laterally the reverse takes place, where the parietal rests against the frontal. b. When the surfaces are merely placed in apposition with one another, as in the superior maxillary bones, the union is called harmonia, (apw, to adapt). c. When a ridge in one bone is received into a groove in another, the articulation is called schindylesis (axtvSv- Ariaig, a slit or fissure). The rostrum of the sphenoid, and the descending plate of the ethmoid bone, are joined in this way with the vomer. When a conical surface is impacted into a cavity, the term gomphosis (ycytyoq, a nail) is adopt- ed, which may be exemplified by the manner in which the teeth are lodged in the alveoli. 94. The mixed form of articulation, or ampin-arthrosis, resembles the immoveable, in having the bones connected by an intermediate substance, and the moveable ones in admit- ting of some degree of motion between the surfaces. The articulations between the different vertebrae, the union at