ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 538 nute tubes, which receive their secretion, (tubuli lactiferi,) and convey it towards the centre of the gland, where they gradually converge behind the nipple, forming larger tubes, {sinus). From the latter proceed the ducts which open on the nipple. 602. Though the genital system appears to constitute a most marked distinction between the sexes, its component parts will be found to present so close an analogy in their general conformation, that we can scarcely avoid concluding that both have been formed according to a common type, of which the peculiarities in each constitute so many modifica- tions, dependent on their respective degrees of develope- ment. The analogy between the testes and ovaria is suf- ficiently obvious in form, function, and organic elements, as well as in their original position, both being lodged in the abdomen. The uterus and the prostate bear a marked si- militude, more particularly in the early part of foetal life, and subsequently, the mode of connexion and relation of the vasa deferentia to the one, resembles that of the Fallopian tubes to the other. The clitoris may be likened to the penis, and the labia to the scrotum, but it should be ob- served, that the more early the period chosen to institute the comparison, the closer will the similitude appear; at the early part of foetal life the distinction of sex is not percep- tible. The peritonaeum, so called from its relation to the abdominal viscera, {vregirwu to extend around) is the most extensive serous membrane in the body, as it not only lines the parietes of the ab- domen, but is also reflected over each of the organs it contains, at the same time that it forms several folds of considerable ex- tent. This membrane, in its conformation, may be compared to a shut sack, as it admits neither interruption to its continuity, nor perforation of its surface. It is not easy to assent, on a first in- spection, to the truth of the position here laid down, particularly when it is stated, that though the viscera are severally invested by it, and derive then- vessels from trunks which lie behind the mem-