ELEMENTS 04' ANATOMY. 266 an incision carried along the external, or fibular border of the tendon of the extensor proprius, for about an inch a half, or two inches. Above the bend of the ankle the incision must be some- what longer, say two inches and a half, and the vessel will be found on the tibia, lying to the inner border of the extensor proprius. 281. The internal iliac artery (iliaca interna, hypogas- trica; la pelvienne, Bichat, Chaussier) in the foetus, both from its direction and size, appears to be the continuation of the common iliac trunk. It is nearly double the size of the external iliac artery, but in the adult the relation in this particular is reversed, the external iliac being much larger. As the vessel in the foetal state differs from that in the adult subject, so materially in length, relations, &c., it be- comes necessary to describe its condition in the former, pre- viously to considering its course and distribution in the lat- ter. When the vessels in the foetus are injected, (part or the whole of the umbilical cord remaining attached) it will be found, that the internal iliac artery proceeds, from the point at which the common trunk divides, (sacro iliac symphysis) forwards and a little downwards, to reach the side of the bladder. In this course the artery descends very little, as the body and fundus of the bladder project into the abdomen in early life. Guided by the side and fundus of the bladder, it reaches the inner surface of the parietes of the abdomen, along which it ascends to the umbilicus, converging to the vessel of the opposite side. When arrived at that aperture the two arteries come into contact with the umbilical vein, round which they coil in a peculiar manner, until they reach the placenta, in the spongy texture of which their branches ramify, until they become capillary. To that part of the vessel which inter- venes between the sacro-iliac symphysis and the side of the bladder, the term internal iliac, or hypogastric, can in strictness be applied, the remainder thence onward through the umbilicus to the placenta, is the proper umbilical artery,