514 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. lobe a depression will be observed corresponding with the upper surface of the stomach; on the right, one for the gall-bladder, and two others, very faintly marked, indicating the points of contact of the colon and the right kidney. The anterior border, which lies beneath the margin of the chest, is sharp and thin, and presents a notch, in- dicating the commencement of the longitudinal fissure, and sometimes another, which lodges the fundus of the gall- bladder. The posterior and superior border is thick and rounded ; it is marked by two grooves, of which, one, broad and superficial, indicates where it rests on the spine, the other transmits the vena cava. The right extremity is rounded and thick, the left on the contrary, is thin and oblique, being directed towards the cardiac orifice of the stomach, and the spleen. The liver is dense, heavy, and of a deep red colour, with a slight purple tinge along its thin margin, which is a characteristic of the perfectly healthy condition of the organ ; it is invested by the perito- neum, except at the points of reflexion of the falx, and of the lateral and coronary ligaments. Structure.—When torn or divided the liver presents a granular appearance, so that it has been classed amongst the conglomerate glands ; but any inquiry into its structure pre-supposes a know- ledge of the vessels which ramify in its interior. 1. The vena portae conveys to the liver the residual blood from all the chylo- poietic viscera. The veins from these different sources unite in the first instance into two trunks, viz. the splenic and superior mesenteric; from the conflux of these proceeds the vena portae, which again ramifies by branches in the liver, so that it may be said to have two sets of branches, viz. the incipient in the intes- tines, the terminal in the liver, both being connected by an inter- mediate trunk, a. The splenic vein arises in the substance of the spleen by six or seven branches, which converge and take the course of the splenic artery to the head of the pancreas, where it joins the mesenteric vein. It receives in its course veins correspond- ing with the pancreatic, duodenal, gastro-epiploic, and coronary arteries, and finally, a large one, viz. the inferior tnesenteric vein.