ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 478 e. —Two or three branches (temporales profunda) ascend between the temporal muscle and the cranial bones, along which they ra- mify, freely supplying the muscle. f. —Some small and short ramusculi pass to the pterygoid mus- cle, which they supply (pterygoidea). g. —A small but regular branch (masseteric) passes from within outwards through the sigmoid notch in the lower jaw, and is dis- tributed to the masseter. 531. 3. The branches given by the internal maxillary artery whilst opposite the pterygo-maxillary fissure. h. —Ramus buccalis passes obliquely forwards upon the buccinator muscle, to which and to the other muscles of the cheek it distri- butes twigs, and anastomoses with the facial artery. i. —alveolaris vel dentalis superior turns forwards on the border of the superior maxillary bone, and gives off several small twigs, some of which pierce the bone, and reach the antrum Highmori, where they ramify freely, whilst others penetrate to the alveoli by similar foramina, and enter the roots of the upper teeth to supply their lining membrane. k. — infra orbitalis turns horizontally forwards from the artery, when it has reached the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the infra-orbital canal, when it sends some twigs into the orbit to sup- ply the inferior oblique muscle and the lachrymal gland. It emerges on the face, after having traversed the canal, and sends twigs upwards and inwards to the lachrymal sack and angle of the eye, which communicate with the nasalis lateralis, whilst others descend, covered by the elevator of the lip, and anastomose with the transversalis faciei and buccal branches. 532. 4. The branches given off in the spheno-maxillary fossa; l. —palatina superior vel descendens is one of the three branches into which the artery may be said to divide at the point just indi- cated. It passes perpendicularly downwards, through the poste- rior palatine canal, and so reaches the arch of the palate, along which it ramifies, supplying the gums and soft palate, and anas- tomosing with the nasal artery by a branch sent up through the foramen incisivum. At its point of origin, a reflected branch