PERINJEUM—ACCELERATOR URINAL. 547 with the transversi and acceleratores muscles, whilst the intervening part is disposed like orbicular muscles else- where, being composed of fleshy fibres curving round the intestine, and united by commissures before and behind it. One surface of the muscle is covered by the skin, the other rests on some cellular tissue, which separates it from the internal sphincter and levator ani. 605. The transversi penned are two narrow fleshy fasci- culi, which converge to the central point of the perinseum as their common destination. They arise on each side from the inner and forepart of the tuberosities of the ischia, and proceed, inclining forwards, to the point just indicated, where they are blended with the sphincter ani and acceleratores urinae. Two muscles of this name are sometimes found on either side. 606. The accelerator urince (bulbo-cavernosus) is so disposed as to surround the bulbous part of the urethra. We may consider it as a single muscle consisting of two symmetrical halves, united so as to form a tube sur- rounding a part of the urethra, and connected anteriorly, by two diverging processes, with the corpora cavernosa, posteriorly, at the central point of the perimeum, with the sphincter and acceleratores, whilst its inferior fibres are extended obliquely outwards to the rami of the pubis. Its analogy with the sphincter vaginae would lead us to con- sider it in this way. In conformity with usage, however, we shall describe each lateral half separately. The fibres of the muscle, forming a thin, flat plane, are blended with those of the corresponding muscle along the middle line, beneath the bulb of the urethra. Their junction extends forwards for three quarters of an inch from the tendinous point above referred to. The fibres from this line of origin proceed in three different directions; the inferior set pass obliquely outwards, and are attached to the angle of union formed by the deep perinmal fascia with the ramus of the pubis ; the anterior set incline upwards and 2 is 2