421 MEDIAN NERVE. at the union of the middle with the lower third of the fore- arm, a branch of considerable size inclines backwards from the nerve, and reaches the dorsal aspect of the limb, after having passed beneath the flexor ulnaris muscle. Conti- nuing to descend, it lies superficial to the extensor carpi ulnaris, and so reaches the back of the hand, where it sends a branch along the inner border of the fifth meta- carpal bone, which gives filaments to the abductor of the little finger, and finally runs along its ulnar margin as far as the last phalanx. The continuation of the nerve cor- responds in its course with the fourth metacarpal space, giving off several small filaments to the skin and parts on the back of the hand, and, on reaching the heads of the metacarpal bones, divides into two branches, which extend upon the contiguous margins of the little and ring fingers, in their entire length, forming their collateral branches. From the radial side of the nerve a branch not unfrequently is sent, which supplies also the external border of the ring finger, and the adjacent one of the middle finger. But it will sometimes be observed that this branch joins with some de- rived from the termination of the spiral nerve, and that from their union branches proceed to supply the contigu- ous borders of the ring and middle fingers. 443. 8. The median nerve is so called from the position it occupies in the fore-arm. It is of considerable size, and arises from the plexus by two fasciculi, or heads, which em- brace the axillary artery. The artery, in this situation, is surrounded on every side by the divisions of the plexus. In front lies the median nerve, behind it are placed the cir- cumflex and spiral, to the outer side, one of the heads of the median, together with the external cutaneous nerve, and to the inner, the second head of the median, with the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves. The median nerve inclines outwards at first, in order to come into contact with the co- raco-brachialis muscle. Towards the middle of the arm it crosses the artery, usually in front, occasionally behind it, and becomes placed at its inner side, resting on the brachi-