ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 314 vided in the extent and direction above indicated. This should be met at right angles by another incision, begun about an inch and half above the crural arch, so that both together shall resemble an inverted . Many surgeons, it may be observed, commence with a crural incision. Du- puytren usually does so. Sabatier discountenanced the practice, through a fear, that if the vertical incision were carried below the horizontal one, so as to form a cross, the saphena vein might be wounded. If the tumour be very small, such an accident may arise from prolonging the inci- sion below the middle part of it; but when it increases, and comes forwards through the saphenous opening, it lies on a plane anterior to the vein, which therefore is out of all danger. In the transverse incision, through the skin, the superficial epigastric artery is divided, but that is of little consequence. The angular flaps of integument having been reflected, the superficial fascia becomes exposed, and should be divided to the same extent. It is much thicker than where it forms a covering for inguinal hernia, and contains, moreover, some of the superficial lymphatic glands. The funnel-shaped investment of the femoral ves- sels, or fascia propria, next comes into view, which is to be cautiously divided by pinching up a small piece between the blades of the forceps, and cutting it off close to their points, thus making an aperture sufficient to admit a direc- tor. When the fascia propria is divided the hernial sack is, in most cases, still obscured by that thick lamella of cellular tissue, which lies across the crural ring, and has been pushed down before the peritonasum, as the hernia de- scends. It is scarcely necessary to add, that this also must be divided, after which, whilst the proper sack, or perito- neal covering of the intestine is being opened, the same precautions should be observed, that have been already suggested when describing the operation for. inguinal her- nia. When the contents of the sack are exposed, the ope- rator has to divide the stricture, which obviously includes a