239 EPIGASTRIC ARTERY. the ileum, and the symphysis pubis. In this course the ves- sel presents a slight curve, whose concavity looks backwards into the pelvis; but it gives no branch of any consequence, until it arrives within a few lines of its termination. It at first rests somewhat on the external iliac vein, as it descends it receives some support from the psoas muscle being closely applied to its inner margin, and finally rests upon it for some way. To its external side lies the psoas muscle in its whole course, which separates it from the anterior cru- ral nerve; the internal inguino-cutaneous branch of the nerve, crosses in front of the artery, as it passes inwards to its destination. Anteriorly, the external iliac artery is co- vered by the peritonaeum; internally, it is accompanied by the vein of the same name, which at first is placed rather behind it, but gradually comes forward, so as to lie on the same plane when they have reached Poupart’s ligament. The artery at this point is supported by some fibres of the psoas muscle, the vein by the pubis, where a small part of its upper surface remains uncovered by muscular fibre, be- tween the contiguous borders of the psoas and pectineus. Just before its termination the artery gives its two branches, viz. the epigastric and eircumflexa ilei. 267. 1. The epigastric artery is situated obliquely at the inferior and anterior part of the abdominal parietes. It arises from the external iliac, usually about three or four lines above the margin of Poupart’s ligament; in some in- stances, it comes off on a level with it, or even lower down. In the first case it inclines downwards and inwards, so as to get on a level with the ligament, after which it changes its direction, passing obliquely upwards and inwards, being placed between the fascia transversalis and the peritonaeum, until it reaches midway between the umbilicus and pubis, where it passes into the sheath of the rectus, in which it ascends above the umbilicus, and terminates in several small branches that anastamose with the terminal branches of the internal mammary, and inferior intercostal arteries.