ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 110 Attachments of Muscles.—To the zigoma is attached the mas- seter; to the temporal fossa, the temporalis; to the mastoid process, the sterno-mastoid, splenius capitis, and trachelo- mastoideus; to the digastric fossa, the digastricus; to the styloid process, the stylo-glossus, stylo-hyoideus and stylo- pharyngeus ; to the apex of the petrous portion, the levator palati and tensor tympani. The Sphenoid Bone. 78. The sphenoid bone is situated towards the centre of the base of the skull, and is articulated with all the bones of the cranium, and several of those of the face. Its form has been likened to that of a bat, and the resemblance is very close, particularly if the ethmoid remains attached, as often happens. Like other irregular bones, it may be di- vided into a body and processes, or wings. The body is divided into six surfaces. The superior, or cranial, presents, first, in the median line, a pointed pro- cess, which articulates with the ethmoid bone; two expand- ed horizontal processes, called the wings of Ingrassias; their form is triangular, the superior surface supports part of the anterior cerebral lobes, the inferior looks towards the sphenoidal fissure; the anterior border is rough, and arti- culates with the orbitar plate of the sphenoid; the poste- rior smooth, and corresponds with the fissure of Silvius. Beneath the base of these processes are situated the optic foramina; posteriorly they end in two productions, called the anterior clinoidprocesses. The superior surface is ex- cavated deeply to receive the pituitary gland. This exca- vation is called cella Turcica, from some resemblance to a Turkish saddle. Before the pituitary fossa is a slightly depressed portion of the bone, on a level with the optic fo- ramina, on which rests the commissure of the optic nerves. The inferior surface presents a prominent spine, called ros- trum, and at each side two slight lamellae (projecting from the base of the pterygoid processes), which articulate with the vomer. At the anterior surface we observe the open-