VASCULAR SYSTEM—CIRCULATION IN THE ADULT. 591 of it, and the cervical t ossels on each side. In the mid- dle of the thorax it is close by the right side of the aorta, and there becomes invested by the plexus formed bv the vagus nerves ; lower down, it passes over the aorta, as has been stated. The tube is lined by mucous membrane, which is invested by a muscular tunick composed of longi- tudinal and circular fibres. 642. The thymus gland in the adult is very irregular in its form, and differs little in appearance from common cel- lular tissue. In the foetus it extends from the diaphragm to the thyroid gland ; its substance is lobulated, and its ex- tremities divided into two processes. The vascular system is made up of a multitude of membranous tubes (vessels), some of which convey, to the different organs and structures of the body, the fluids destined for the maintenance of their functions and growth, whilst others receive from the system at large the effete fluid, and carry it back, to the point from which it had set, out. As the fluids, in the greater number of animals, are thus made to flow, as it were, in a circle, the system of vessels which directs their course is called circulating, and the whole process, circulation. These vessels are divided into three sorts; two of which, the arteries and veins, contain blood (though of a different quality in each); the third, the lymphatics, are filled partly with chyle, the product of digestion, and partly with lymph, the residue of nu- trition. As the lymphatics terminate in the veins, and pour their contents into them, they may be considered as tributaries to the venous system. The blood, brought back by the veins to the heart, is conveyed onwards from it, by the pulmonary artery, to the lungs, from whence it is returned to the heart again, to be propelled through the aorta into the system at large. Two streams may thus be said to begin and to terminate at the heart: one flowing from it to the lungs by the pulmonary artery, and returning by the veins ; the other extending through the whole body, and returning by the vense cavse: the former has been termed the lesser, or pulmonary ; the latter, the greater or aortic circulation. Though some of the