30 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. ducts which convey excrementitious fluids, or which open into the primae viae. Besides forming an ingredient in se- veral healthy secretions, such as saliva and synovia, it exists in some fluids, particularly in that effused in dropsies, as has been shewn by Dr. Marcet. According to Mr. Brande, who has endeavoured to decompose it by means of electricity, mucus consists of albumen and muriate of soda, or of albumen with pure soda. The residuum, after evaporation, is transparent, and found to be soluble in acids, but insoluble in water. For the description and distinguishing characters of the remaining animal com- pounds, such as urea, osmazome, pichromel, acids, and adipose matter, the reader is referred to some of the ele- mentary works on chemistry or physiology, as they more properly belong to these departments. The quantity of the fluids exceeds considerably that of the solid parts of the body ; but it is difficult to ascertain exactly their rela- tive proportion, as it varies according to age, sex, and con- stitution. Chaussier obtained what may be considered as a fair approximation, by subjecting a body, previously weighed, to destructive distillation, the result of which was, that the fluids were found to be to the solids as 9 to 1. 20. The proximate constituents of the solid parts of the body, as obtained by what may be termed anatomical analysis, have been variously arranged by different anato- mists. Haller contended for the existence of three ele- mentary tissues, each composed of fibres, distinguishable from those of the others, by certain essential and characte- ristic properties, viz. cellular tissue, muscular fibre, and nervous substance. These cannot be considered as ele- ments in the strict acceptation of the term ; for, when exa- mined by the aid of a microscope, they are found to consist of two constituents—an animal matter, which is areolar and porous, and minute globules. The first, according to its mode of aggregation, forms fibres or lamellae, which are so disposed as to constitute cells, or areolae. This element,