G65 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, close by the vertebral artery,'which almost conceals it from view. It receives the communicating branch from the middle gan- glion, and sends down five or six, which pass, some in front, some behind, the subclavian artery, and end in the first thoracic ganglion. Some branches pass outwards, which soon join the spinal nerves that form the axillary plexus, whilst others pass inwards, to contribute to the formation of the pulmonary plexus. Finally, the inferior cardiac nerve may be considered as its anterior branch. 700. Before we proceed to describe the thoracic portion of the nerve it'may be well to conclude our notice of the cranial part, by describing the lenticular ganglion, together with the spheno-palatine and naso-palatine ganglia, and their branches. The lenticular ganglion lies within the orbit about midway between the optic foramen and the globe of the eye, and inclosed between the external rectus muscle and the optic nerve. Its branches are the following:—From its anterior border from sixteen to twenty delicate filaments issue, which proceed forwards to the surface of the sclerotica, and pierce it through minute fora- mina. These are the ciliary nerves: they pass along between the choroid membrane and the contiguous surface of the sclerotica, lodged in grooves in the latter, and on reaching the ciliary liga- ment they pierce it, some of them appearing to be lost in its sub- stance, whilst others pass inwards, and ramify in the iris. In their course to the globe of the eye, the ciliary nerves are divided into two fasciculi, one above, the other below the optic nerve, the latter being the more numerous. From the posterior surface of the ganglion two branches issue, of which one passes backwards and upwards to the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, and which appears to be the medium of communication between the ganglion and the rest of the gangliac system, by being prolonged to the carotid plexus ; the other reflected branch is shorter than the pre- ceding, and passes downwards and backwards to the inferior oblique branch of the third nerve.