THE LIVER. 513 The inferior surface is irregularly concave, and presents certain fissures, eminences, and depressions, deserving of notice, a. Extending from before backwards a deep groove or fissure will be observed (sulcus umbilicalis—longitudina- lis, horizontalis) which in foetal life lodges the umbilical vein for part of its extent, the rest transmitting the ductus venosus. In after life both these degenerate into liga- mentous cords. This fissure (which in some instances is converted into a canal, by a portion of the substance of the liver being extended across it) marks the separation of the right and left lobes on the lower surface, as the falx does on the upper one. 2. Running transversely with regard to the preceding, and at right angles with it, is a second fissure, (sulcus transversus, s. venae portae.) It occupies the middle third of the transverse diameter of the liver, being somewhat nearer the posterior than the anterior border. The older anatomists likened it to a gateway, which gave transmission to the hepatic vessels, as it lodges the hepatic artery and biliary ducts, the vena portae, with the nerves and lymphatics. 3. In front of the transverse fis- sure a square piece is marked off (lobulus quadratus), which is bounded behind by the fissure just named, before by the margin of the liver, on the left by the longitudinal fissure, and on the right by the gall-bladder. 4. Behind the trans- verse fissure, and concealed by the hepatic vessels and lesser omentum, projects another lobe (lobulus Spigelii); it projects in the form of a pyramidal mass, forming a sort of promontory between the three great veins, or rather the fissures, which lodge them, viz. the vena portag, vena cava, and the umbilical vein. Its base is connected with the right lobe by a process which is named lobulus caudatus. The square and pyramidal lobes were formerly likened to the pillars of a gate, from which the vein also (vena portae) took its name. The depressions on the sur- face of the liver are very slight; they merely correspond with the position of the contiguous viscera. In the left