FORE-ARM—ITS DISSECTION. 429 The dissection of the fore-arm may be commenced by making an incision through the skin, from the middle of the interval, between the condyles of the humerus, to the root of the thumb ; this marks out the course of the radial artery, and may be bounded by a transverse incision at each extremity. If the integument be drawn tightly forwards, the cutaneous nerves may be seen running in the cellular tissue between it and the fascia; and when once found, there can be little difficulty in tracing them in their entire extent, as they can be made to rest on the fascia, which gives them a firm support, whilst the scalpel is carried from above downwards, along their cutaneous surface. After the superficial nerves and veins have been examined, the fascia may be dissected off the muscles. The examination of the latter should be con- ducted in the order in which they have been described, com- mencing with those attached to the inner condyle. When the su- perficial set has been examined, consisting of the pronator teres, flexor radialis, flexor ulnaris, and flexor sublimis, their common origin may be divided, and the w'hole mass drawn down towards the hand, so as to expose the flexor profundus and flexor pollicis longus, as well as the median nerve and ulnar artery. The inter- osseous nerve and artery will at once be found between the two muscles last mentioned. The supinator longus and radial extensors next present them- selves for examination. And there can be no difficulty in distin- guishing them, as the first line of the description has been so constructed as to indicate briefly the position and situation of the muscles of this and every other region of the body. The radial ar- tery and its accompanying nerve will be found along the border of the supinator longus muscle. The muscles on the posterior side of the fore-arm are numerous, and closely connected together, so that their dissection and ar- rangement are sometimes deemed difficult. An incision may, in the first place, be made from the olecranon to the middle of the back of the hand, which should be bounded at each extremity by a transverse incision. The skin having been thus divided, may be reflected off the fascia in its entire extent; and when the fascia has been examined, it may be divided in the same way as the skin, and dissected off the muscles, which will be facilitated by proceed- ing from below' upwards, taking the different tendons as a guide