661 THE BRAIN-—ITS DISSECTION. callosum parallel with its raphe, and everting the external portion of it. The parts within the body and anterior and posterior cor- nua of the ventricle being examined, the descending cornu may be traced by following the plexus choroides downwards into it, after which it can be fully exposed by making an incision through the substance of the optic thalamus dow'n to the cornu. If the cornu ammonis be drawn outwards, the point, at which the plexus enters, will distinctly appear, and also the change presented by the pia mater, where it enters the ventricle. The greater part of the sub- stance of the hemisphere may now be removed, and the tentorium cerebelli at the same time detached from the pars petrosa, and re- flected backwards. This will expose the greater number of the cerebral nerves, with their course and relations within the cra- nium. Those within the cavernous sinus may be brought into view by following the third, fifth, and sixth through the foramina in the dura mater, and everting it as it is cut up. To gain a clear view of the parts within the orbit it is neces- sary to remove the greater part of its roof, and the whole of its outer wall. With this intent the malar bone may be sawed through on a level with the floor of the orbit, and as far back as the spheno-maxillavy fissure. The orbital plate should in the next place be cut through with a chisel along its inner third, and back to the anterior clinoid process: this incision should be con- tinued along the floor of the middle fossa, close to the outside of the foramen rotundum and ovale, and thence along the pars pe- trosa, so as to cut through the great wing of the sphenoid bone and the squamous part of the temporal bone. When this has been done the whole may be pressed down and detached, by cutting along the base of the skull, from within outwards, the knife being inserted into the fissure thus made. These measures should first be considered, and marked out on the dried skull. A complete lateral view is thus obtained of the divisions of the fifth nerve, of all those in the sinus, as well as of the orbit. To examine the origins of the nerves and the parts at the base of the brain, it must be detached from its situation, and inverted; but it is not necessary to repeat what has been already stated in our description of the exterior of the brain. To expose the medulla spinalis in its entire extent it becomes