198 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. enclosed space being broad above and narrow below,) and are formed by the aponeuroses of the internal oblique on each side, as they divide to enclose the recti muscles. The linece transversal have been already noticed with the recti muscles, in the substance of which they are situ- ated. Combined Actions.—The muscles here described not only en- close and support the abdominal viscera, but by their contractile power are capable of acting successively on them, on the thorax, and on the pelvis. When the pelvis and thorax are fixed, the ab- dominal muscles can constrict the cavity and compress its viscera, particularly if the diaphragm be made to descend at the same time, as occurs in vomiting, or in the expulsion of the fcetus, of faeces, or urine. If the vertebral column be fixed, these muscles compress the lower border of the thorax, and so contribute to expiration. When it is intended to continue the effort so as to produce a forced expiration, the quadratus lumborum draws down the last rib, and makes it relatively the fixed point to which all the rest are drawn by their inter-costal muscles ; but if the vertebral column be not fixed, the thorax may be bent directly forwards, when the muscles of both sides act, or it may be rotated to either side, should they act alternately. Thus if the external oblique of the right side be made to act on the thorax, the first effect appears to be that of drawing its margin down to the pelvis, but if the effort be continued, the trunk will be rotated towards the opposite side. The left internal oblique will co-operate in this action, for the di- rection of its fibres coincides with that of the right external ob- lique. The pyramidalis also contributes to the same effect, by rendering the linea alba tense. If the thorax be fixed, the abdo- minal muscles may be made to act on the pelvis ; thus in the ac- tion of climbing, the trunk and arms being elevated and fixed, the pelvis is drawn upwards, either directly, or to one side, as a pre- paratory step to the elevation of the lower limbs. A similar effect may be produced when the trunk is in the horizontal position, for the pelvis may be drawn forward and flexed upon the vertebral column, by the recti and pyramidales.