491 CERVICAL FASCIA. as the sub-cutaneous cellular membrane in other situations, but which is here termed the superficial fascia. Its chief peculiarity is, that at the sides of the neck the cutaneous muscle is developed in its interior, dividing it into two lamellae, but before and behind that muscle it is single and undivided as elsewhere, being continuous superiorly wich the cellular tissue on the face, and below with that on the thorax. 554. The deep, or proper cervical fascia, encases the neck all round, from the ligamentum nuchae to the middle line at the fore-part of the neck, where the two lateral por- tions are united from the chin to the sternum. If fully exposed, by removing the platisma and superficial cellular membrane, and turning back the trapezius muscle, we may examine the distribution of the fascia as follows : Commenc- ing posteriorly at the middle line, the fascia will be found to bind down the splenius and second layer of muscles as far as the external border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It there divides into two layers, one placed before, the other behind that muscle, and uniting again at its inner border, so as to form a sheath for its investment. From this point the fascia is prolonged, in front of the trachea and its muscles, to the middle line, when it unites with the corre- sponding portion of the opposite side. Whilst passing over the muscles just referred to, it sends thin lamellae be- tween them, which become attached to their respective points of insertion. If traced upwards, the lamella on the cuta- neous surface of the sterno-mastoid will be found to pass over the parotid gland, and to be thence prolonged over the side of the face, becoming thin, and gradually degene- rating into cellular tissue. But externally, it is attached to the cartilaginous tube of the ear, and higher up to the zigoma. The deep lamella inclines inwards, and becomes connected with the styloid process, from which it is again reflected to the angle of the lower jaw, forming a broad lamella, extended between these points, which constitutes a