493 THE FACE—ITS DISSECTION. as far as the margin of the eyelids. The external flap may then be reflected back over the ear, so as to expose the temporal fascia, artery, &c. The skin, in the next place, is to be carefully raised and dissected off the frontal muscle, from below upwards over the fore-head as far as the vertex. The fibres of the orbicu- laris may now be divided over the eyebrow, so as to expose the corrugator supercilii; and if the lower border of that muscle be raised, it will expose the origin of the elevator of the lip, which will afford a guide to the dissection of that muscle, as well as of the common elevator of the lip and nose, down to their termination. In order to expose the muscles and vessels of the lower part of the face, an incision may be made from the most prominent point of the cheek to the margin of the jaw, from which the skin may be reflected backwards off the masseter muscle and parotid gland, taking care not to injure the duct of the latter, or the nerves and artery which accompany it; but the other flap of skin is to be carried obliquely inwards to the lip, in the direction of the zigomaticus. By this measure, the last-named muscle, and the levator anguli oris, and also the facial artery, will be exposed ; and by removing some adipose substance, the buccinator will be brought into view. By turning aside the elevator of the lip, the second branch of the fifth nerve and the infra-orbital artery will be seen emerging from the foramen of that name. The masseter muscle and parotid gland having been examined, the parts con- cealed within the ramus of the jaw may be brought into view in the following way: With a sharp chisel and mallet the zigoma may be divided at both extremities, and the attachment of the temporal fascia to its upper border severed. The bony arch, with the masseter still connected with it, may be drawn down to the angle of the jaw, the fibres of the latter being at the same time detached from the ramus. In the next place, with Hey’s saw, the ramus of the jaw may be divided by a perpendicular cut, carried from just before its condyle, to a level with the alveolar border, and there met by another line carried forwards to the latter, so as to insulate and detach all that part of it that belongs to the coro- noid process. This being done, the piece of bone with the tem- poral muscle attached, may be drawn upwards, so as fully to ex- pose the two pterygoid muscles, the internal maxillary artery, the gustatory and dental nerves, and the pterygo-maxillary ligament,