RADIAL ARTERY. 409 latter and the index. Each pair of collateral branches, on arriv- ing at the base of the last phalanx of the finger, converge and form an arch from the convexity of which, small ramusculi run for- wards to its termination. From the concavity and dorsal surface of the arch small branches are given to the parts in the palm of the hand. 424. The radial artery, in direction, though not in size, appears to be the continuation of the brachial. It runs di- rectly from the point of division above indicated, to the head of the radius, lying along the anterior and external side of the fore-arm, its course being indicated by a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow, to the narrow interval between the trapezium bone and the tendons of the two first extensors of the thumb. These can be readily felt towards the outer border of the wrist. The artery at first is supported by the branches of the mus- culo-spiral nerve, and some cellular tissue, which separate it from the supinator radii brevis muscle; it then passes over the insertion of the pronator teres, and the radial ori- gin of the flexor sublimis: after which, it lies on the flexor pollicis longus and pronator quadratus, until it reaches the end of the radius. Its anterior surface is covered by the fascia of the arm and integument, and for some way is overlapped by the fleshy part of the supinator longus, which must be turned aside, in order to expose it. To its inner sides lies the pronator teres in the upper part of its course, and the flexor carpi radialis in the rest; its outer side being in apposition with the supinator longus all the way down. Two venae comites run parallel with the artery; and the radial branch of the spiral nerve lies to its radial side during the middle third of its extent; but above that part the nerve is separated from it by a considerable interval, • and lower down it turns backwards, to reach the dorsal as- pect of the arm, and loses all anatomical relation to it. Op- posite the end of the radius the artery inclines outwards, passing between its styloid process and the trapezium, and