32 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. ternal parts of the body ; it is prolonged into their in- terior, where it serves a corresponding purpose. From the lips and nares, it extends along the whole length of the alimentary canal, as well as into the different follicles and excretory ducts which open into it. The larynx, trachea, bronchi, and air-cells of the lungs, are lined in the same way by a mucous membrane ; and as the whole forms a continuous surface, it has been named by Bichat,* the “ gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane.'' A similar mucous surface may be traced from the orifice of the meatus urinarius, along the urethra, bladder, and ureters, to their termination in the calyces of the kidney; also into the vasa deferen- tia, and tubular structure of the testes in males, and in the female, along the vagina, uterus, and fallopian tubes, on which account the whole has been denomi- nated the “ genito urinary mucous membrane c. When disposed in the form of dense compact fibres of various lengths, the cellular tissue constitutes the basis of the various fasciae, aponeuroses, fibrous bands, liga- ments, and tendons, observable throughout the body. d. When, though condensed into the lamellar form, the cellular tissue remains permeable to certain thin fluids exhaled on the surface, it constitutes the serous and syno- vial membranes. These serve to give a partial investment to parts, and to line the inner surface of the cavities in which they are lodged; but they are altogether with- drawn from the contact of extraneous bodies, as well as from atmospheric influence. Their leading anatomical character is, that they form shut sacs, admitting neither an interruption to their continuity, nor perforation of their surface, and are always moistened either by a fine halitus, or vapour, which when condensed, resem- bles the serum of the blood, or by a thin fluid (syno- via) intended to lubricate articulating surfaces. e. The cellular tissue in certain fixed and determinate si- tuations (always corresponding with the parts of the * Traits des Membranes. t Ibid.