PLANTAR MUSCLES—THEIR ACTIONS. 235 into the inner border of the first phalanx of the corre- sponding toe, and the extensor tendon. 3. The third dorsal interosseous arises from the inner side of the fifth metatarsal bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little toe, and the extensor tendon. Combined Actions.—Several anatomists name the different in- terosseous muscles, not from their numerical order, first, second, third, &c. but from their actions and uses. Thus, the second, third, and fourth, of the dorsal set, are abductors of the cor- responding toes, inasmuch as they are inserted into the ex- ternal side of their phalanges ; but the first dorsal and the three plantar muscles are adductors, so that if all four act together, they will draw the four lesser toes to the great one. Though the power of adduction and abduction is found in the digital pha- langes of the foot, it is obviously very much restricted, as compared with the hand ; and when wre examine the rest of the muscular ap- paratus in this region, we shall see sufficient reason to admit, that, though it is constructed on the same general principle as that of the hand, and made up of nearly similar parts, its powers are modified and adapted to the peculiar uses of the foot, which forms a basis of support for the body, as well as an instrument of propulsion in its different movements. It may be observed, that from the anal- ogy between the general construction of the great and little toes, and the thumb and little finger, the muscles of the former have received the same names as those of the latter, as if they could perform the same uses and exert the same actions. Thus the little toe has its abductor, flexor, and adductor (the third plantar inter- osseous) though it admits of scarcely any motion by itself. The size of the muscles also shews that they are intended for some more important purpose than the movement of so small a part. The nomenclature of the muscles of the great toe has also been con- structed on the supposition of its admitting of abduction and ad- duction like the thumb. But the mode in which its metatarsal bone Is articulated with the first cuneiform bone, as well as the circum- stance of its digital extremity being connected with the other- toes, by the transverse ligament and transverse muscle, shews that