MUSCLES OF THE THIGH—THEIR DISSECTION. 309 1. Dissection of the anterior muscles of the thigh. In order to expose the muscles on the fore part of the thigh (and it is with them the dissection usually commences) nothing more is necessary, after the skin has been removed, than to pinch up the fascia with the blades of the forceps, and divide it by successive steps from above downwards, in the direction of the fibres of each muscle. After the sartorius and rectus have been dissected in their entire length, and their attachments and relations attentively examined, the former may be cut across in the middle, and the parts drawn aside; the latter too may be divided near its origin, and turned down on the leg. The triceps extensor is thus brought fully into view, so that its three parts may be inspected successively, at the same time that it is considered as a whole. The muscle in fact may be compared to a hollow splint, encasing the anterior and la- teral surfaces of the shaft of the femur, leaving unoccupied only the linea aspera and its bifurcations (superior and inferior). A perpendicular incision may, in the next place, be made through the muscle, extending from one extremity to the other over the middle of the femur. If the margins of the lateral parts be drawn aside, a clear view will be obtained of the manner in which the fibres pass to be implanted, by so many separate points, into the surface of the bone. Holding the border of the incision tense, and with the blade of the scalpel placed in the horizontal position, the muscle may be detached from the bone, after which the two parts, thus separated, may be turned down on the leg, still left connected with the patella. By these measures we shall bring into view the inferior attachments of the next set of muscles, which would otherwise lie in a great degree concealed. Before the extensors are detached and reflected, the form and boundaries of the opening for the femoral vessels should be attentively exa- mined, as the vastus internus constitutes a part of it; nor should the membrane be omitted which passes from the latter muscle to the adductors, covering the vessels. 2. Dissection of the internal muscles. The direction and attach- ments of the adductor longus, running obliquely from the angle of the os pubis to the middle of the thigh, are at once obvious. The gracilis too will be observed running along its inner border. If the thigh be abducted, the fibres of these muscles will be render- ed tense, and their dissection facilitated. The adductor longus