126 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. bottom. This principle should never be lost sight of by those who enter on a consideration of the theories of life and organization. 90. The teeth are divided into four classes, viz. the inci- sores, cuspidati, or canini, bicuspidati, or small molares, and the large molares. The incisors, four in number in each jaw, are situated at the fore part of the mouth; their summit is wedge-shaped, being thin and sharp at the free border, slightly compressed at the sides, somewhat convex in front, and flat or concave behind. Those in the upper jaw are larger than those of the lower; the roots of all are single, elongated, and conical. The canine teeth, placed at each side of the incisors, are two in number in each jaw. Their crown, convex ante- riorly, concave behind, tapers towards its summit, where it ends in a blunted point; at its base are two transverse lines. Their roots, single, conical, and compressed at the sides, are longer than those of any other teeth. The bicuspidati, four in number in each jaw, are so named from having two roots. They are intermediate in size, as well as in situation, between the canine and molar teeth. Their crown, compressed laterally where it is in apposition with the other teeth, is rounded on the external and internal sides. Their cutting extremities present two tubercles, one internal, the other external, the latter being the larger. The section of the neck is oval; the root is often single as far as its point, where it is slightly bifid. The molar teeth, compressed on the sides as well as from before backwards, assume a cuboid form at the crown; their upper surface, intended for trituration, is surmounted by four small tubercles, two on the inner, two on the outer border; which are separated from one another by a crucial depression. The last of this set are the smallest, and as they appear at a more advanced period of life, they are usu- ally named dentes sapientice. The roots are divided into three, four, and sometimes only two diverging processes.