SOLEUS—TENDO ACHILLIS. 223 cular structure ends in a broad strong tendon (tendo Achil- lis) which is inserted into the lower part of the posterior extremity of the os calcis. Direction—vertical: structure —tendinous at the lower extremity, aponeurotic and fleshy at the upper, fleshy in the middle: relations—the posterior surface is covered by the fascia of the leg, the anterior rests on the popliteus, plantaris and soleus muscles, and popliteal vessels; where its heads pass over the condyles, they are guarded by synovial membranes. 245. The soleus (tibio-calcanien, Chauss.; tibio-peronei- calcanien, Dumas) is situated at the posterior part of the leg, of which, in conjunction with the preceding muscle, it forms the calf. Form—nearly oval, being much thicker and broader in the middle than at the extremities. Like the preceding muscle it presents two heads, though by no means so distinctly separated. Of these the external one, longer and larger, arises from the posterior part of the head of the fibula, and from the surface beneath it for about a third of its extent, the inner head arises from the middle third of the tibia, commencing below the oblique line which gives insertion to the popliteus; finally, in the space intermediate between the bones, the muscular fibres are attached to a tendinous band extended from one to the other, over the posterior tibial vessels, which it secures from pressure or injury. The fleshy fibres descend lower than those of the gastrocnemius, and end in a flat tendon, which soon becomes blended with the tendo Achillis. Di- rection—the muscular fibres converge to a species of apo- neurotic raphe, which exists along the middle of the mus- cle : structure—aponeurotic and fleshy at its origin, fleshy in the middle, tendinous inferiorly: relations—behind with the gastrocnemius and plantaris muscles; in front, with the peroneus longus, fibula, the flexor longus pollicis, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus digitorum muscles, the tibia, and the posterior tibial vessels. 246. The tendo Achillis, formed by the junction of the