THE SKULL—ITS LATERAL REGIONS. 131 ponding with the breadth of the orbit, is another ridge, forming its inferior margin ; under which is situated the infra-orbital fora- men, for the passage of the superior maxillary nerve; and still lower down, the fossa canina, which gives attachment to the levator anguli oris muscle, and is bounded below by the alveolar border of the upper jaw, and externally by the malar tuberosity. Towards the middle line, and corresponding with the interval between the orbits, is the nasal eminence, which is prominent in proportion to the development of the frontal sinuses, over which it is situated. This is bounded by the transverse suture, marking the root of the nose. Beneath the nasal, and between the contiguous borders of the superior maxillary bones, is a triangular opening which leads into the nasal fossae. Farther down is the transverse rima of the mouth, between the alveolar borders of the jaws. In the inferior maxillary bone, besides some muscular impressions, is the mental foramen, which transmits the terminal branches of the dental nerve and artery. The two lateral regions are somewhat of a triangular figure, the apex of the triangle being at the angle of the lower jaw, the base at the temporal ridge, and the sides formed by two lines drawn one upwards and forwards, over the external orbital process, the other upwards and backwards, over the mastoid process. In con- sequence of the great irregularity of the surface, it is necessary to subdivide each of these regions into three ; the part above the zi- goma being called the temporal region, or fossa ; that beneath it, the zigomatic; the remainder being named the mastoid. The tem- poral region, or fossa, being bounded by the temporal ridge above, and by the zigomatic arch below, is of a semicircular form, and extends from the external angular process of the orbit to the base of the mastoid process. It is filled up by the temporal muscle, and is formed by the temporal, parietal, frontal, sphenoid, and ma- lar bones. The mastoid region is bounded before by the trans- verse root of the zigoma, above by the horizontal one, behind and inferiorly, by the additamentum suturae lambdoidalis. Proceeding from behind forwards, we observe the mastoid foramen, the pro- cess of the same name; anterior to which is the aperture of the meatus auditorius externus, which is circular in young subjects and oval in adults, the greatest diameter being from above down- wards. The osseous tube continuous, externally, with the fibro- K 2