POSTERIOR TIBIA.L ARTERY ITS DISSECTION. 263 turning the corresponding venter of it somewhat outwards. A small part of the posterior tibial artery, which is the continuation of the popliteal, is at the same time brought into view : but as the rest of it lies deeply beneath the soleus, this muscle must be de- tached wholly or in part, in order to trace the course of the vessel. As the vessels are here bound down to the deep-seated muscles by the deep fascia, and as that membrane exerts an important in- fluence on the progress of operations executed on these arteries, it is advisable to leave it untouched, whilst the superficial muscles (those of the calf of the leg) are being removed. This end can only be attained with facility by proceeding with the dissection of the muscles from below upwards. An incision may with this view be made through the strong external fascia of the leg, along the borders of the tendo Achillis. If the tendon be then drawn backwards, and held on the stretch, the deep fascia will be readily exposed, from the ankle, as far as the belly of the soleus muscle. When this is effected, there can be no difficulty in detaching the muscle from the tibia and fibula, as the fascia serves as a guide, indicating the line of separation between the superficial set which are to be removed, and the vessels and deep-seated muscles that are to be left untouched. In the lower part of its course, where it runs in the depression between the inner ankle and the heel, the artery can be exposed and secured without much difficulty. Towards the middle of this interval, but nearer the prominence of the inner ankle than that of the heel, by a finger’s breadth, the ves- sel may be observed to pulsate, if the foot be extended so as to re- lax the fascia and integuments. An incision should be made about two inches and a half in length, beginning near the inner border of the tendo Achillis, and extended downwards and forwards over the point just indicated. The integuments being thus divided, and the strong fascia of the leg exposed, it is in the next place to be laid open to the same extent, after which a deep fascia comes into view, being a continuation of that above described, as binding down the deep muscles and vessels. A small piece of this being pinched up by the points of the forceps, it is cut through so as to allow a director to be inserted beneath it, on which it is to be di- vided. The vessels are thus laid bare, so that the artery, after having been separated from the nerve and veins with the same precautions, as in other situations, may be readily tied, the point of