137 THE FRONTAL SINUSES. said to exist in infancy. They are separated by one, or when three exist, by two partitions. Above, behind, and on each side, they are bounded by the body of the sphenoid bone, and in front, by two small spongy portions of the ethmoid bone. The maxillary sinus, (antrum Highmorianum) occupies the superior maxillary bone. It appears at an earlier period than any of the other sinuses, the development commencing about the fourth month of foetal life. Its form is irregularly pyramidal, the base being towards the nasal cavity, the apex corresponding with the malar tuberosity. Superiorly, it is inclosed by the orbitar plate of the maxillary bone; and inferiorly, by its palate plate; inter- nally, it opens into the middle meatus of the nasal cavity by a foramen, which, though it appears very large in the dry bone, separated from its connexions, is, in the natural state, very small, being nearly sufficient for the admission of a probe ; this diminu- tion of size is caused by the inferior spongy and palate bones, and also by a fold of the mucous membrane. Every part of the conformation of the human subject indicates its adaptation to the erect position. The feet are broader than those of any other animal proportionally to its size; the tarsal and metatarsal bones admit of very little motion, and the great toe is on the same plane with the others, and cannot be brought into opposition with them. The foot is thus fitted to sustain the weight of the body, but not to grasp or seize objects presented to it. The hands on the contrary, though so well adapted for these purposes, are ill calculated for affording support, so that man is truly bimanus and biped.* The tibia rests perpendicularly on the astragalus, and the os calcis projects backwards for the purpose of increasing the base, and also of lengthening the lever to which the strong muscles of the calf are attached. The whole extent of the tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges in man, rests on the ground, which does not obtain in any other animal; even in apes the end of the os calcis is somewhat raised so as to form an acute angle with the bones of the leg. In dogs and digitated quadrupeds, the carpus and tarsus are considerably elevated from the ground, so that the body rests on the toes; and in the horse, and other solid- hooved animals, the third phalanges only rest on the ground, the os calcis being raised nearly to the perpendicular direction. * Regne Animal, tom. i. p. 82.