375 TERES MAJOR. rior rests on the bone and capsular ligament. The lower border is in contact with the teres minor, being united pos- teriorly with it and the teres major. 378. The teres minor lies along the inferior border of the scapula ; its form is elongated, narrow, and round. It arises by a series of oblique fibres from the dorsal surface of that ridge which surmounts the axillary border of the scapula, and from two aponeurotic septa, placed between it and the infra-spinatus and teres major muscles. Its inser- tion lies immediately below that of the infra-spinatus, into the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Direction—oblique from below and upwards and forwards: structure—tendi- nous at its humeral end, fleshy in the rest of its extent: relations—by the outer surface with the integuments and deltoid muscles, by the inner with the scapula, the posterior or dorsal branch of the subscapular artery, the long head of the triceps muscle, and the fibrous capsule of the shoulder-joint. The upper border lies in contact with the infra-spinatus, the lower with the teres major, but is sepa- rated anteriorly from it by the long head of the triceps; the posterior extremity is, as it were, inserted between the teres major and infra-spinatus, being connected with both, as has been above stated. The three flat surfaces marked on the upper border of the great tuberosity of the humerus give insertion to these three muscles, taken in their regular order, from above downwards. 379. The teres major extends from the inferior angle of the scapula, to the humerus, contributing to form the poste- rior border of the axilla. It is rather broad and compressed than round, as its name would imply. It arises from the flat expanded surface placed at the inferior angle of the scapula, and from the septa interposed between it and the teres minor and infra-spinatus. Its insertion takes place by a broad, flat tendon, into the posterior border of the bicipital groove in the humerus, being in close contact with the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. Its direction must