THE SPHENOID BONE. Ill ings of the sphenoidal sinuses lodged in the body of the bone. The posterior surface of the body is flat, and articulated with the basilar process of the occipital bone, and from its superior margin projects forwards and upward a lamella of bone sometimes slightly bifurcated at its extremity, and called the posterior clinoid process. The lateral surfaces are continuous with the alae, or wings, which branch out from it on each side. Each of these pre- sents three surfaces, looking in different directions: one an- terior, smooth, quadrilateral, forms part of the external wall of the orbit; another, superior, elongated, and concave, sup- ports the middle lobe of the brain; the third, external, is di- vided into two parts by a ridge, of which the superior one forms part of the temporal fossa, the inferior, of the zigoma- tic. The ala terminates posteriorly by a pointed prolonga- tion, which is curved downwards, called the spinous pro- cess. Projecting downwards perpendicularly from the line of junction between the body and the alae are observed the pterygoid processes. Each of these consists of two la- mellae, united at an angle anteriorly, and diverging behind, so as to form an angular groove. The internal plate, lon- ger and narrower than the external, is prolonged into a slight round process, named, from its crooked form, the hamular process, round which plays the tendon of the ten- sor palati muscle. The external lamella looks outwards and somewhat forwards, bounds the pterygoid fossa, and gives attachment to the external pterygoid muscle. At the root of the internal lamella is situated a slight depres- sion (fossa navicularis), which gives attachment to the tensor palati; in the groove between the two plates arises the internal pterygoid muscle, and into the triangular in- terstice left at their inferior divergence, is received the py- ramidal process of the palate bone. Each lateral half of the bone presents a fissure, three foramina, and a canal. The fissure (Jissura sphcnoidaMs)