581 AORTA. ventricle: the straight one, slightly thickened along its margin, presents in the middle a small grannie (modulus). When col- lapsed, each valve rests on the surface of the artery ; but when the vessel is distended, the valves resemble so many small pouches, their convex surface being directed down towards the ventricle, the concave towards the artery, and the straight border of each so closely in contact with the others, that an effectual barrier is presented against regurgitation into the ventricle. 633. The aorta. — The primary arterial trunk of the body is called the aorta: it continues undivided from its origin at the left ventricle of the heart to the fourth lum- bar vertebra, where it divides into the iliac arteries. Im- mediately after its origin, it proceeds upwards, forwards, and to the right side, until it reaches the level of the carti- lage of the second rib, where it inclines backwards to the spine, to gain the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra. At the point just indicated, the vessel changes again, inclining downwards and inwards on the side of the third vertebra, thus completing three parts of a circle. This is named the arch of the aorta. The ascending part of it is at first overlapped by the pulmonary artery, and afterwards lies between that vessel and the superior vena cava ; it lies behind the sternum (the pericardium and some cellular tissue interposing), and is supported by the right pulmonary artery and veins. The transverse part of the arch is horizontal in its direction, and rests on the extre- mity of the trachea. From its upper or convex border arise the three great arteries which supply the head and upper extremities; its concavity is connected with the pulmonary artery by the ductus arteriosus, or the tendi- nous cord into which it degenerates, and round it coils the recurrent branch of the vagus nerve. The third, or descending part of the arch, lies behind the root of the left lung. The branches that arise from the aortic arch are the following: