THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 151 fourth or fifth below it; the set subjacent to these passes from the body of one to about the third beneath it, whilst the deeper ones pass only from one vertebra to that next it. The fibres are thicker towards the middle of the bodies of the vertebrae than at their margins, or over the inter-verte- bral cartilages, by which means their transverse depressions are filled up, and the surface of the column rendered even. Laterally the fibres are thin and scattered, and reach from one vertebra to the other. 2. The 'posterior common ligament (ligamentum com- mune posterius, Weit. Soemm.) situated within the spinal canal, and attached to the posterior surface of the bo- dies of the vertebrae, extends from the axis to the sa- crum. It is smooth, shining, and broader opposite the in- ter-vertebral cartilage, than opposite the body of the bone. In the greater part of its extent it adheres firmly to the bodies of the vertebrae, and is separated from the prolon- gation of the dura mater lining the canal by loose cellular tissue; but towards the top of the neck, the dura mater is so intimately connected with these structures, that it re- quires care to separate them. This arises from the fact, that whilst within the cranium, it serves the purpose of lin- ing the bones and investing the brain ; but in the spinal canal it merely encloses the medulla, the bones being lined by their proper fibrous structures, so that the division be- gins at the point just referred to. 3. The inter-vertebral substance (ligamenta inter-verte- bralia, Weit.) is made up of narrow plates of fibro-carti- lage, laid on their edges between each pair of vertebras, and intimately connected with their contiguous surfaces. They are disposed concentrically, and correspond, at the anterior part of their circumference, with the anterior com- mon ligament, and at the opposite with the posterior. In the interstices between these is deposited an elastic pulpy substance, the quantity of which is greatest towards the centre. 101. The articulation of the spinous processes is effected