69 THE PELVIS. each side by the crista ilei; posteriorly, may be observed a deep notch, which is divided into two parts by the base of the sacrum, and anteriorly is an extensive excavation, bounded on either side by the anterior-superior-spinous processes of the ilea, and thence descending towards the symphysis pubis. The inferior circumference, or outlet, presents three deep notches; of which the anterior one, triangular in its form, is bounded on each side by the rami of the ichia and pubis, extending upwards and inwards, from the tuberosities of the ischia to the pubic arch. The two other notches, (sucro-sciatic) are placed behind and above the tuberosities, and correspond with the interval between the sacrum and os innominatum. When examined in the dried bones their extent is considerable, but in the natural condition they are divided into lesser spaces by the sacro-sciatic ligaments. The size and conformation of the pelvis differ very re- markably in the two sexes. In the female, though its per- pendicular depth is less, its breadth and capacity are greater. The alas of the iliac bones are more expanded; the upper aperture is more nearly circular, the projection of the sacrum less perceptible ; and the space between the tuberosities of the ischia greater. The depth of the sym- physis pubis is less in the female than in the male, whilst the breadth of the pubic arch is greater. In the erect attitude of the body, the direction of the pelvis is oblique, its upper aperture being inclined forwards; so much so, that if a line be drawn from the upper border of the symphysis pubis, backwards, to the sacrum, it rests against the middle of that bone. In consequence of this inclination, the central line or axis of the inlet, differs very decidedly from that of the outlet; the former, if drawn from above downwards, reaches the lower third of the sa- crum, the latter, if drawn from below, backwards and up- wards, touches the promontory of the sacrum; both there- fore decussate towards the centre of the pelvic cavity.