495 THE NECK—ITS DISSECTION. retract, so as to expose the vein, and the aperture made in it. The platisma should be reflected from below upwards over the face, beginning at the clavicle, by which means, particularly if the trapezius be turned back, the cervical fascia will be fully exposed. When this membrane is dissected off the sterno-mastoid, we see lying on it the ascending nerves of the cervical plexus, and pass- ing downwards the descending set. In the area of the superior triangular space will be found the submaxillary gland and digas- tric muscle, and lower down the sheath of the vessels, inclosing the carotid artery, jugular vein, and vagus nerve. On the sheath the descendens noni lies, and behind it the sympathetic nerve. The inferior triangular space will be found divided into two parts by the omo-hyoideus passing across it; the upper division containing the cervical plexus, the lower the axillary plexus, and the subcla- vian artery. The upper belly of this muscle also divides the superior space by passing across the sheath of the vessels ; all that part of the carotid below it being deeply seated and covered by muscles, whilst the rest is comparatively superficial. When these parts have been examined, the jaw may be sawed through at the symphysis of the chin, and at the margin of the masseter muscle, the mylo-hyoideus having been previously detached from its connexion with the os hyoides. These being removed, the side of the tongue, the gustatory nerve, the sublingual gland, and the hypo-glossal nerve, are brought into view, together with the muscles. When describing the fascia, mention has been made of the fact, that processes pass inwards, investing the muscles in front of the larynx ; similar lamellae are also extended to the cervical glands. Now, enlargements of the latter often simulate the characters of aneurismal tumours of the contiguous artery, so that their diag- nosis is difficult. The facts, however, just alluded to, will go some way to clear up the difficulty; for if the patient be desired to make an effort, as if to swallow, the larynx will ascend, and with it the fascia, by reason of their connexion, and the latter will at the same time draw up the tumour, if it be merely glandular; all these parts will subside when the effort ceases. An attention to the anastomoses of vessels will at once shew how the circulation is carried on after one of their trunks has been obliterated. If the common carotid be tied, the thyroid,