468 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. forepart of the sheath ; but in some instances, part of the arch of anastomosis formed by that nerve will be found within the sheath, lying between the artery and vein. The sympathetic nerve lies between the sheath and the rectus anticus, and the ascending thyroid artery crosses behind it. 519. If the subject be turned on its back, the two caro- tids will be seen separated only by the interval between the sterno-clavicular articulations, whilst as they ascend, they diverge, but do not pass backwards, as may at first sight be supposed, from viewing the parts in this position; their greater apparent depth at the upper than at the lower part of the neck, is caused by the projection of the larynx and os hyoides forwards, which often protect them in attempted suicide. The only difference of relation between the ves- sels is at the lower part of their course, where the oesopha- gus lies close to the inside of the left carotid, and the thoracic duct behind it. They send off no branches, and therefore retain their size undiminished, as far as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where each divides into the external and internal carotids. 520. The external carotid, artery, smaller than the other in infancy, but of equal size in adult age, extends, from its point of division, to the neck of the condyle of the jaw, or ,a little lower, where it divides into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. At first it lies before, and to the inner side of the internal carotid, but soon crosses it, inclining backwards, after which it curves somewhat as it ascends to its point of division. For a quarter of an inch after its origin, it is covered only by the skin, platisma and fascia; it is then crossed by the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles, as well as the lingual nerve, and finally becomes embedded in the parotid gland. The stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, with the laryngeal nerve, run between it and the internal carotid artery, and support it, at least partially, until it reaches the gland. It gives off eight branches, including