THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 41 phenomena of vitality. We observe eminences for the in- sertion of ligaments, which project more than those intended for muscles; for instance, the spinous process of the ischium: there is moreover, no proportion between the elongation of different apophyses, and the power of the muscles attached to them, viz. between the styloid process of the temporal bone and its muscles. 28. The cavities on the external surface of bones are di- visible into the articular and non-articular. The former shall be treated of in the next chapter ; the latter being very numerous, may be ranged under the following heads. 1st. Those for insertion. 2. For reception. 3. Gliding. 4. Transmission. 5. Nutrition. Those for insertion are well adapted for the attachment of muscle, ligament, &c. by in- creasing the extent of space allotted for that purpose, inas- much as a concave surface presents a greater extent than a plane one bounded by the same line. Some of these, as the digastric and pterygoid fossae by the greater depth at which they allow the muscles to be inserted, increase their power by permitting an elongation of their fibres. The bones of the skull and face present several instances of cavities of reception. Some correspond with the whole extent of a bone, as the occipital and parietal. Some occur in a particular part only, as the fossa in the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and os unguis for the lach- rymal sac. 3. Those for gliding are situated about the heads of long bones, being grooves, in which tendons slide, as they pass to their destinations. The formation of these has been attributed to the influence of the mechanical pres- sure, and friction of tendons. But such a rationale is inad- missible, for they are found in subjects paralytic from in- fancy, and are by no means proportioned in depth to the force of the muscular exertion which bears upon them. The different configuration of bones should rather be con- sidered as the result of the laws of ossjfication which preside