ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 518 yet firm membrane, which turns over its concave border, and comes into contact with its pelvis, on which it is re- flected, gradually degenerating into cellular tissue. Structure. In this organ, as in the liver, we follow its compo- nent parts into its interior, with a view to ascertain their mode of arrangement, as on this, its structure depends. The fissure of the kidney lodges the pelvis or reservoir, the renal artery and vein, with the nerves and lymphatics. The pelvis is continuous with the ureter, which is the tube that conveys the urine down to the bladder. The ureter being about eighteen inches in length, and about the size of a quill, is composed of a fibrous and a mucous tunic. Opposite the fissure of the kidney, it expands into an irre- gularly oval and compressed ampulla, called the pelvis, which is partly concealed by the vessels. If the ureter and pelvis be in- flated, or what is better, if they be distended with soft injection, it will be found on dissecting off the anterior wall of the kidney, that on entering its substance the pelvis gives off’ three tubes, one corresponding with each extremity, and another with the middle of the organ ; these again subdivide into from nine to thirteen smaller tubes, (infundibula) and the infundibula terminate in cup-like ca- vities (calices) formed by their extremities being depressed, or as it were, slightly inverted on themselves. Each calyx embraces the extremity of a rounded process, (papilla, mammella) and each papilla is the summit of a conical mass, whose base looks towards the convex border of the kidney, the sides being embedded in its substance. Now, each conical mass is composed of minute tubes, (tubuli uriniferi) of which one extremity opens on the sur- face of the papilla, and therefore pours its contents into the in- vesting calyx, whilst the other, prolonged to the base of the cone, is there continuous with the capillary terminations of the arteries, from which it receives the secretion the moment it is elaborated ; and so this fluid is received, and passed on successively by the tubuli, calices, infundibula, and pelvis, whose structure is similar to that of the ureter, being but so many prolongations of it. Though the mucous membrane of each calyx appears to cease where it is reflected over the surface of the papilla, yet we can scarcely avoid coming to the conclusion, that it is prolonged into the tubuli uriniferi, as there is no part of the ceconomy in which