ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 394 phalanx of the thumb. Its form is triangular, the base being attached to the former bone, the apex to the latter. It arises from the palmar border of the third metacarpal bone, from which its fibres proceed outwards, converging to a short tendon, which is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, where its fibres are blended with the inner insertion of the short flexor. Combined Actions.—The names applied to the muscles of the thumb sufficiently indicate their actions and use; they are eight in all, and may be arranged as follows. In the first place, it should be recollected that there are three moveable osseous pieces in the thumb, so articulated as to admit of the four move- ments of extension, flexion, abduction, and adduction. There are three extensors, one for each bone, viz. the extensor of the meta- carpal bone, and those of the first and second phalanges; these are long muscles, placed on the dorsal aspect of the fore-arm and hand. Opposed in situation and action to these are the three flexors, lying on the palmar aspect of the thumb, viz. the oppo- nens (which may be considered a flexor of the metacarpal bone), the flexor brevis, or flexor of the first phalanx, and flexor longus, being the flexor of the second phalanx. There remain the ab- ductor and adductor, which likewise are opposed to one another in situation and action; one being superficial and external, and therefore well calculated to draw the thumb away from the other fingers, whilst the other is internal and deep-seated, and thereby enabled to approximate it to them. If these moving powers be made to act successively, circumduction is performed, or in other words, the thumb moves so as to describe a cone, w’hose summit is at its carpal articulation, and base at the line traversed by its extremity. The thick fleshy mass at the inner border of the hand also consists of four muscles, one of them being cutaneous, the others are the proper muscles of the little finger. 410. a. The palmaris brevis forms a thin plane of fibres placed immediately beneath the skin. It arises from the annular ligament and palmar fascia, from which its fibres proceed inwards, diverging, and are inserted into the skin