THE ABDOMEN—ITS REGIONS. 317 Again; Poupart’s ligament being merely stretched across from the spinous process of the ileum to the pubis can only be contiguous to, or in apposition with the parts which pass beneath it from the abdomen down to the thigh, viz. the psoas and iliacus muscles and the femoral vessels. These are obviously so many sources of weakness—so many deficiencies in the structure of the part, which, if not guarded against by some additional provision, would leave us constantly exposed to the occurrence of intestinal protru- sions both above Poupart’s ligament and below it. 329. Before we enter on the description of the accessory structure, whose existence is here indicated, or rather the necessity of which is inferred, it becomes necessary to pre- mise a few remarks on the method of dissecting the pa- rietes of the abdomen, and also on certain subdivisions of that cavity which have been adopted by anatomists. It contains many and important parts, whose situation and mutual relations require to be minutely described, and which, when diseased, give rise to a variety of symptoms that demand a rigorous scrutiny. For these reasons, pa- thologists have found it necessary, in order to give pre- cision to their inquiries, as well as clearness to the commu- nication of the results of them to others, to adopt those subdivisions which anatomists had established for the pur- pose of facilitating their descriptions of parts. With these views the cavity of the abdomen has been divided into three primary regions, a superior, an inferior, and a middle, which is intermediate between both. These may be marked out by two transverse lines drawn round the body, as follows: one having commenced at the most prominent point of the cartilages of the ribs at one side, is drawn across to the corresponding point on the opposite, and so continued round the spine, to the place at which it began, thus completing the circle. The other line, proceeding from the crista of the ileum at one side, extends to that of the other, and so round the body, as in the former instance.