179 THE SEMI-LUNAR CARTILAGES. lage, by the other it is inserted into the inner side of the external condyle of the femur; hence its direction is up- wards, backwards, and outwards. The 'posterior ligament is attached inferiorly to the pit behind the spine of the tibia, where it is intimately connected with the posterior cornu of the external semi-lunar cartilage, and superiorly, to the side of the inner condyle; its fibres being directed upwards and a little forwards. Its anterior surface is in contact with the last mentioned ligament, and the posterior with the ligamentum posticum. Both are thus implanted into the fossa between the condyles. 179. The semi-lunar cartilages are two crescent-shaped lamellae of fibro-cartilage, placed on the articulating sur- faces of the head of the tibia, interposed between them and the condyles of the femur. The outer border of each is thick and convex, the inner thin and concave, leaving the central part of the superior surface of the tibia uncovered. The internal one, elongated from before backwards, is nearly of a semicircular form, its anterior cornu is connect- ed with the anterior crucial ligament, and is inserted into the pit before the spine of the tibia ; the posterior attached behind the spine, is in relation with the posterior crucial li- gament, its thick border is connected with the internal lateral ligament, the thin one is free and unattached. The external semi-lunar cartilage forms nearly a com- plete circle, its two cornua, fixed one before the other be- hind the spine of the tibia, are so close at their insertion, that they may be said to be interposed between the inser- tions of the internal semi-lunar cartilage. Its external border is connected behind with the tendon of the popli- teus muscle, and in the middle with the external lateral li- gament. Towards the front of the joint the inter-articular cartilages are connected by a slight transverse band (trans- verse ligament). Their superior surface is concave, and in apposition with the condyles of the femur, the inferior plane rests on the head of the tibia; both surfaces are n 2