627 VERTEBRAL ARTERY. cesses, as far as the axis, at which point it inclines out- wards, in consequence of the greater width of the atlas. Having passed through the latter, it winds backwards round its articulating process, lying in a shallow groove behind it; and having pierced the dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. The vessel finally passes forwards, converging to that of the opposite side, and unites with it, their conflux forming the basilar artery. The latter is so named, from its lying on the basilar pro- cess of the occipital bone: its length corresponds very nearly with the breadth of the pons Varolii, with which it is in close contact, and at whose anterior border it divides into four branches, two for each side. The vertebral artery in its ascent is accompanied by a vein of the same name, which commences by branches at the base of the skull, and comes into contact with the artery at the first vertebra. Both vessels lie anterior to the series of cervical nerves, which they cross at right angles. The branches of the vertebral artery in the neck are merely some small twigs to the dura mater of the spine, and some to the deep- seated cervical muscles : those within the skull are, a. Arteria meningea posterior, which is a small branch that arises when the artery is opposite the foramen magnum, and ra- mifies upon the dura mater. b. inferior cerebelli arises at the side of the medulla oblongata, and turns backwards and outwards beneath the lateral lobe of the cerebellum, to which it distributes numerous ramifica- tions, some of which extend to the inferior vermiform process, and to the fourth ventricle, through the medium of its choroid plexus. c. spinalis posterior inclines backwards round the me- dulla oblongata, to reach the posterior surface of the medulla spinalis, along which it descends parallel with its fellow of the opposite side, as far as the second lumbar vertebra, where it ter- minates in ramifications on the cauda equina. Both these vessels are long and tortuous, and maintain frequent communications by transverse branches. 2s2