ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 648 branches, one lying internal to the other, but on the same plane ; the internal, or supertrochlear branch, passes forwards to the point at which the trochlea, or pulley, of the superior oblique muscle is attached to the margin of the orbit, close to which it emerges on the forehead, lying between the muscles and the bone. It soon, however, pierces the occipito-frontalis, to which it distri- butes filaments, and ascends upon the forehead and arch of the skull, ramifying freely upon them. The external, or supra-orbital branch, passes directly forwards to the supra-orbital notch, through which it escapes on the forehead, its subsequent course and distribution being similar to those of the preceding. These nerves maintain communication with the temporal branches of the portio dura. c. The nasal branch is intermediate in size and position between the preceding nerves. Having entered the orbit/through a separate foramen in the dura mater, it passes be- tween the two heads of the external rectus muscle, and then in- clines inwards and forwards, rising over the optic nerve to reach the inner side of the orbit: whilst passing over the optic nerve it gives a small branch, that terminates in the posterior and superior angle of the lenticular ganglion ; probably it would be more cor- rect to say, that it receives from the ganglion this branch of commu- nication. At the inner wall of the orbit the nerve divides into two twigs, one of which passes into the cavity of the nose (nasal), the other issues from the orbit beneath the trochlea, and has on that ac- count been called the infra-trochlear branch. The nasal branch passes inwards to the cavity of the cranium, through the foramen orbitale internum antarius, and on reaching the side of the crista galli, runs forwards on the cribriform lamella, descending into the nose through its anterior foramen or fissure. In this situation the nerve lies close upon the septum narium, and divides into three or four fila- ments, some of which ramify in the pituitary membrane, and others are prolonged to the integument at the extremity of the nose. The external, or infra-trochlear branch, emerges from the orbit at the inner canthus of the eye, and beneath the trochlea, where it divides into filaments, which ramify in the upper eye-lid, and at the root of the nose ; some of them also extending to the lachrymal sack and caruncula lachrymalis. 683. 2. The superior maxillary nerve, or second division of the