ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 352 effort were not made to prevent such an occurrence. For this purpose the arm of the opposite side is, as it were, instinctively thrown out somewhat from the body, so as to render the insertion of the latissimus dorsi into that bone, its fixed point of attachment. Thus sustained, the fibres of the muscle are enabled to act on the spine, and by pulling on those parts of it which are curved, they draw them into a right line with the rest, and so restore the equi- librium of the body. An individual walking on a rope is always observed to keep both arms fixed, and removed a little from the sides; this is obviously for the purpose of bringing the latissimus of each side into action, in order to rectify the curvatures which alternately occur, now to one side, now to another. In order to give greater effect to the power of the muscles, such persons carry a pole, which is held transversely. When the body deviates to one side, the opposite arm is at once completely fixed, by grasping the pole firmly with the hand, and so the muscles are enabled to act on the spine with increased effect, and restore it to the perpendicular position. 350. The rhomboideus (cervici-dorso-scapulaire, Dumas) is usually divided into two muscles, which, though they lie on the same plane, are similar in structure and use, and differ only in size. The two parts of the muscle are separated by a slight cellular interval. It is extended obliquely from the spinous processes of the lower ceryical and upper dorsal vertebrae, to the base of the scapula. 1. The rhomboideus minor arises from the spinous process of the seventh cer- vical vertebra, and from the ligamentum nuchae, its fibres being also closely united with those of the trapezius. It inclines downwards and outwards, to be inserted into that part of the base of the scapula that corresponds with the triangular surface from which the spine commences. 2. The rhomboideus major, three or four times broader than the other, is placed in close contact, and immediately below it. It arises from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into that part of the base of the scapula included between its spine and inferior angle. Direction—downwards and outwards: structure—