653 CEREBRAL NERVES—SEVENTH PAIR. mastoid foramen, the portio dura is embedded in the sub- stance of the parotid gland in the interval between the mas- toid process and the ramus of the inferior maxilla, where it sends off' three small branches previously to its ultimate division. a. The posterior auricular branch inclines backwards and up- wards, and subdivides into two branches, one of which runs be- fore, and the other behind the meatus auditorius externus, where they ramify chiefly in the integument, b. The stylo-hyoid branch descends upon the stylo-hyoideus muscle, to which, and to the digastricus, it is partly distributed, the remainder of its filaments maintaining communication with the sympathetic nerve and the ascending branch of the cervical plexus. c. The submastoid branch (ramus digastricus) inclines outwards to the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, to which it distributes the greater number of its filaments, the remainder maintaining communica- tions with the nervus vagus and its branches. The facial nerve, after giving off these branches, in- clines forwards somewhat, still lying within the parotid gland, where its division into branches takes place, and by the connexion these branches maintain with one ano- ther, a plexus is formed (plexus parotideus, pes anserinus), from which branches proceed upwards to the temples, down- wards to the neck, and forwards on the face. Previously to forming the plexus, the nerve, in some instances, di- vides into two primary branches ; in others there are as many as four, or even five. The branches from the plexus, formed as above, may be divided into three sets, differing in destination and direction : The first ascend upon the zygoma in front of the ear, accom- panying the temporal artery and its branches, even to the summit of the head; posteriorly they communicate with the occipital nerves, and anteriorly they incline upon the forehead, eye-brow, and upper lid, where they interlace with the frontal nerves. The