291 THE LESSER SCIATIC NERVE. nerves. The two last sacral nerves do not enter into its formation. The branches of the sacral plexus may be di- vided into two sets, one internal, the other external: the former consisting of the hemorrhoidal, vesical, uterine, and pudic, are distributed to the parts in the pelvis and peri- nasum, and shall be described after we have examined the pelvic viscera; the latter being intended for the supply of the lower extremity, come within the limits of our present section: they are the small, or lesser, and the great sciatic nerves. 311. a. The lesser sciatic nerve (petit femoro-poplite, Chauss.; branche fessiere inferieure, Bichat) arises from the posterior and lower part of the plexus, from which it inclines backwards and downwards to reach the lower bor- der of the pyriformis muscle, beneath which it escapes from the pelvis. In this situation it will be found on the same plane with the great sciatic nerve, but on its inner side, both resting on the superior gemellus, and covered by the gluteus maximus. Here the nerve may be said to divide into branches which take different directions; one out- wards to the glutei, others inwards, and a third set down- wards along the thigh. It is however more conformable with usage to consider the descending part as the proper continuation of the nerve, and the others as its offsets or branches: a, the inferior gluteal branches may be so called to distinguish them from the proper gluteal nerve, which arises from the lumbo-sacral, or communicating branch, from which, at their exit from the pelvis, they are separated by the breadth of the pyriformis muscle. The greater number of these branches are very short, as they have merely to turn outwards a little, in order to reach the pelvic surface of the gluteus maximus, to which they are distributed. One of them however may be observed to curve round the border of the pyriformis, and proceed ob- liquely forwards beneath the gluteus, extending as far as its anterior border, b. A small branch, inclines inwards u 2