ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 516 which the liver is composed, its proximate constituents being the granules above noticed. These were supposed by Malpighi to be hollow in the interior, and to form follicles, or acini, interposed between the capillary terminations of the vena portae and the ar- tery, and the incipient radicles of the hepatic duct—a conjecture which is invalidated by the fact, that injections passed into the vein return by the duct without suffering extravasation. Ruysch, on the contrary, supposed them to be solid, and to consist of an interlacement, formed by the capillaries of the different orders of vessels. Now, when we consider the course of the vessels, and of the fluids they contain, we perceive that two sorts of blood are brought to each granule by the vein and artery, and that a diffe- rent sort is conveyed away by the hepatic vein, whilst at the same moment a new fluid (the bile) is received and carried down by the duct: so that each granule forms the centre of a minute eddy round which the fluids turn; the mere fact of making the turn being sufficient not only to change their direction, but also to impress upon them a total alteration of character. 571. The gall-bladder (vesicula fellis) is a membranous sack, of a pyriform shape, lodged in a slight depression at the inferior surface of the right lobe of the liver. Its po- sition is oblique, so that its fundus inclines downwards, and to the right side, being on a level with the lower margin of the liver, whilst its body and neck are directed backwards, upwards, and to the left. Its neck tapers gradually, and is prolonged into a small tube {ductus cys- ticus) which descends and joins at an angle with the hepa- tic duct to form a common canal (ductus communis choledo- chus) which lies on a level with the hepatic artery, and on the same plane, the vena portm being behind and between both. The common duct is about three inches long, it de- scends behind the head of the pancreas, with whose duct it comes into contact, and both together pierce the coats of the duodenum, running for three quarters of an inch be- tween them, previously to terminating on the inner surface of that intestine. The gall-bladder is composed of two coats, united by cellular membrane; the external one is