THE PLANTAR FASCIA. 315 dily ascertained by dissecting the fascia from the tarsal bones, and tracing it over the border and plantar surface of the abductor muscle, when its termination and attachments will be found to be as above stated. 327. 2. The plantar fascia is a dense fibrous structure, extended from the calcaneum to the heads of the metatar- sal bones, occupying the sole of the foot. It is attached posteriorly to the posterior tubercles, on the plantar surface of the calcaneum, where its fibres are aggregated into an ar- row, thick fasciculus. From this point the fibres, as they proceed forwards, diverge and arrange themselves into two parts separated by a depressed interval, one corresponding with the muscles of the little toe, the other with the middle of the tarsus, and the whole width of the metatarsus. The external, or narrow part, after being connected firmly with the fifth metatarsal bone, sends forwards some thin fibres which unite with the last digital process of the larger por- tion. By its outer border it gives attachment to the fascia of the dorsum of the foot, from the other it sends a process upwards to the tarsal bones, which contributes to form a septum between the plantar muscles. The larger portion of the fascia becomes thin as its fibres diverge, and ulti- mately resolves itself into five processes corresponding with the metatarsal bones. Each process, on reaching the digi- tal extremity of these bones, divides into two fasciculi, which separate and become attached to their sides, thus leaving an angular interval for the transmission of the ten- dons and vessels to the phalanges of the toes. From each border of this part of the fascia a membranous partition is given off, which separates the mass of muscles placed in the middle of the foot, from those that are situated along its borders, and belong to the great and little toes. These septa are not merely interposed between the lateral and middle bundles of muscles. Their points of attachments to the tarsal bones will be found connected by a thin fascia passing across from one to the other, separating the flexor