THE GREAT SCIATIC NERVE. 293 the gluteus, and lower down by the flexor muscles; but in the ham it is placed in the interval between them, embedded in a quantity of adipose substance, and covered only by the fascia and integument. The branches of this nerve are ne- cessarily very numerous, but may be arranged as follows: a, from its posterior surface some filaments pass to the glu- teus muscle, whose size and number depend on that of the inferior gluteal branches, derived from the lesser sciatic nerve, being few and small when the latter are numerous, and vice versa. For here, as elsewhere, in the nervous, as well as in the vascular system, a principle of compensation obtains, by which, when the supply from one source is con- siderable, that from another admits of being proportionally diminished. Farther down it gives filaments to the flexor muscles, as they lie over it. From some of these branches, or from the trunk itself, one or two others pass backwards, and directly pierce the fascia, after which they proceed down towards the external side of the ham, ramifying in the integuments. These may be termed the posterior and external cutaneous branches, to distinguish them from those that arise from the lesser sciatic nerve, b. From its ante- rior surface several branches proceed to supply the exter- nal rotators and the adductor magnus, on which it lies: c, some pass outwards to the short head of the biceps. 313. About the middle of the thigh, the sciatic nerve divides into an external and internal branch, the latter, in direction and size, being its proper continuation. This di- vision sometimes takes place lower down than the point here indicated, and in many instances much higher, for the two parts of the nerve, though in apposition in the middle of the limb, are often found separated superiorly by part of the pyriformis muscle, through which one of them passes. The internal, or larger division, lies behind, and to the outer side of the popliteal artery, whilst in the popliteal space; hence during that part of its extent it may be called the popliteal nerve. According to the arrangement usu-