SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 667 it becomes applied to the inferior surface of the portio dura, which it accompanies to within two lines or so of its exit from the stylo- mastoid foramen. The Vidian nerve at this point turns forwards into the tympanum, where it runs between the long process of the incus and the handle of the malleus, assuming die name of corda tympani. In the next place the nerve descends, and escapes through the glasserian fissure, inclining at the same time forwards and inwards, so as to come into contact with the gustatory nerve, which it accompanies along the inferior maxilla, until it approaches the submaxillary gland. When near the gland the corda tympani separates from the gustatory nerve, and descends upon that body, where it divides into filaments, forming a sort of plexus. 702. The thoracic portion of the sympathetic nerve com- prises, first, a series of ganglia, twelve in number, dis- posed in a regular series along the heads of the ribs, and connected by short nervous cords passing from one to the other; secondly, of the plexus, formed along the middle line, for the supply of the heart and lungs by the sympa- thetic and vagus nerves, which present this remark- able difference, that the pulmonary plexus is formed for the most part by the vagus, the cardiac by the sympa- thetic nerves. 703. The cardiac plexus (ganglion cardiacum, Wris- berg ; plexus cardiacus, Haller) lies between the arch of the aorta and the bifurcation of the trachea, extending from the division of the pulmonary artery to the origin of the innominata. This may be considered as the common point of union of the cardiac nerves that issue from the cer- vical ganglia, and the immediate source from which the different nerves proceed which supply the heart. It has been described by Scarpa in these words,—“ Anastomosis ilia valde insignis, quae inter utriusque lateris cardiacorum nervorum truncos sub aortae curvatura paulo supra cor con- ficitur.” From this plexus three orders of filaments proceed ; some pass