ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 228 the tibialis posticus, and peroneal artery; its relations in the sole of the foot have already been sufficiently indicated. 251. The tibialis posticus (tibio-sous-tarsien, Chauss.) lies deeply behind the bones of the leg and interosseous ligament. Its superior extremity is divided into two short processes, or heads, by an angular interval for the trans- mission of the anterior tibial artery. It arises from the posterior flat surface of the tibia, beginning below the ob- lique line of insertion of the popliteus, its fibres continuing to be attached to the bone for some way down, also from the posterior surface of the fibula, and from the interos- seous ligament for two thirds of its length ; some fibres arise also from the intermuscular septa, between it and the flexor muscles. The muscular fibres end in a flat strong tendon, which winds round the internal malleolus close to the bone, and in a sheath appropriated to itself, from whence it is directed forwards, beneath the tarsus, to be inserted into the tuberosity on the plantar surface of the scaphoid bone, several fibres being also prolonged to the first cunei- form, and some obliquely into the sole of the foot, as far as the second and third metatarsal bones. Direc- tion—vertical in the leg, horizontal in the foot: structure ■—fleshy and tendinous: relations—in the leg it is over- lapped and concealed, in the greater part of its extent, by the two flexor muscles, but superiorly, the part left unco- vered by them supports the posterior tibial vessels; its an- terior surface rests against the interosseous ligament, and the tibia and fibula, from which it arises; its tendon runs close to the inner ankle and tarsal bones, and where it slides under the astragalus is thickened by a cartilaginous, or bony deposit within its fibres, analogous, in form and use, to the sesamoid bones in other situations. Combined Actions.—Like their antagonists on the fore part of the leg, these muscles act, in the first instance, on the phalanges, and in the next place on the foot. The latter effect they are enabled to produce by means of the mechanical advantage afforded them by