484 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. and intercostal muscles, anastomosing at the same time with the intercostal arteries. 541. 5.— Transversalis humeri (supra-scapularis) is smaller than the preceding, but takes a similar course under cover of, and parallel with the clavicle, to reach the root of the coracoid process of the scapula. At this point it is separated from the correspond- ing nerve by the ligament stretched across the supra-scapular notch, as the nerve usually passes through the foramen. On reach- ing the supra-spinous fossa, the artery lies close to the bone, and sends outwards a branch (supra-spinalis) which ramifies in the su- pra-spinatus muscle. Continuing to descend, the artery in the next place passes through the interval between the glenoid cavity and the spine of the scapula, resting on the neck of that bone, and so reaches the infra-spinous fossa, where it supplies the muscle of that name, and at the same time communicates with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery, and the termination of the sca- pularis posterior. In its course across the neck some ramusculi are given by this vessel to the muscles by which it passes. A small, though regu- lar branch, will also be found to pass obliquely downwards to the cutaneous surface of the acromion (ramus acromialis) on which it distributes several twigs, which anastomose with those of the tlioracica acromialis. 542. 6.—Profunda cervicis is subject to many varieties in its point of origin as well as size. It passes backwards in the inter- val between the transverse processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, and on reaching their dorsal aspect ascends, still deeply seated, and sends off several branches to the surround- ing muscles. Some of these communicate with ramusculi, sent outwards from the vertebral artery, whilst others ascend to anas- tomose with the descending branch (princeps cervicis) of the occi- pital artery. 543. 7. The vertebral artery is of considerable size, and at the left side appears like the continuation of the subclavian. It enters the foramen in the transverse process of the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra, and ascends vertically, lodged in the canal formed by the chain of foramina in the transverse processes, and so reaches the cranium. Its course and distribution shall be examined when we have described the brain.