651 CEREBRAL NERVES—SIXTH PAIR. the action of the former by the internal lateral ligament of the ar- ticulation. After its commencement a long delicate branch (;mylo- hyoid) is given off, which inclines downwards and forwards, in a groove marked for it on the inside of the ramus of the jaw. This branch rests on the inferior surface of the mylo-hyoiaeus muscle, to which, as well as to the submaxillary gland and anterior belly of the digastricus, it gives filaments. The dental nerve having entered the canal appropriated to it in the lower jaw, passes hori- zontally forwards about three or four lines beneath the roots of the teeth, to each of which it sends filaments, which incline obliquely upwards, and enter the foramina in their apices, to be distributed to their central pulp. When arrived opposite the foramen men- tale, the nerve divides into two branches, one of which, smaller than the other, continues onwards to the symphysis of the chin, where it anastomozes with the corresponding nerve of the opposite side, and from the arch thus formed filaments ascend to supply the canine and incisor teeth. The other division of the nerve passes through the foramen, and appears on the face, where it ramifies freely on the chin and lip, its filaments communicating with those of the facial nerve. 685. The sixth pair, (par sextum, ahducentes,) arises close by the central line, from the superior extremities of the corpora pyramidalia, where they join with the pons. From this point each nerve passes forwards, and upwards, to enter the cavernous sinus, by a foramen in the dura mater, where it rests against the outer side of the carotid artery, and whilst so placed receives two or three filaments of communication from the superior cervical ganglion, or rather from the carotid plexus. The nerve passes thence forwards to the sphenoidal fissure, separated from the ca- vity of the cavernous sinus by its lining membrane ; and on passing into the orbit runs between the two heads of the external rectus, to which it is distributed by two or three filaments, which pierce the ocular surface of the muscle. The seventh pair consists of two portions, distinct in structure, origin, and function.