PAROTID GLAND* 465 fixed, and so makes the symphysis of the jaw deviate to the oppo- site side. A similar movement can be given by the correspond- ing muscle, and the alternation of these horizontal motions con- stitutes trituration. The Salivary Glands. 514. Three secreting organs are placed at each side in the region now under consideration, viz. the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual glands. They differ in size and situation, but agree in being of a pale ash-colour, not unlike the cineritious substance of the brain, also in being composed of minute granules aggregated into lobules and lobes, and in secreting the salivary fluid which is conveyed into the mouth by ducts, that arise by radicles from the granular structure of each gland. The parotid gland, so called from its position with regard to the ear, is the largest of these. Its superficial extent is from the zigoma to a level with the angle of the jaw and mastoid process, and from the meatus externus of the ear to the ramus of the jaw and masseter muscle, being also prolonged upon the latter by a process which accompanies its duct, and thence named socia parotidis. The external surface of the gland is covered by the skin, and partially by the platisma muscle, and bound down by a prolongation of the cervical fascia. Its substance projects deeply towards the base of the skull, in the interval between the ramus of the jaw and the mas- toid process. Thus one process fills up the posterior part of the glenoid cavity, adhering to the capsule of the lower jaw; another passes behind and between the styloid mus- cles; a third, covered by the ramus, rests against the ptery- goideus internus. Through its substance pass the external carotid artery, and its accompanying vein, also the facial nerve. Considering the complexity of these relations, is it possible in the living subject to dissect out the body of the gland and its various deep-seated processes? The duct of the gland (ductus Stenonis) passes forwards on the masseter 2 H