THE PROCESS OF GROWTH—ITS DERANGEMENT. 25 tially differing ?) from those which direct the formation of masses of inert matter. A knowledge of these laws has thrown considerable light on one of the most obscure sub- jects connected with the animal economy, viz. the occasional formation of those bizarre productions called monsters. They have been regarded hitherto as lusus naturae, as if they had been formed by a total subversion of nature’s laws, and admitted of no explanation on rational princi- ples. But their existence is now ascertained* to be de- termined by a partial suspension or derangement of the process of development, by which certain parts are left more or less incomplete, and stinted of their natural pro- portions. This of course occurs most usually along the middle line, and in one case will amount to no more than, a hare-lip, or a fissured palate, which are owing to a want of union between their lateral parts. The various forms of hermaphrodism are attributable to a want of union in the pubic and perineal regions, and to a derangement in the de- velopment of the generative system ; and if the walls of the abdomen be incomplete, from the same cause, the viscera may remain more or less uncovered. In acephalous cases, from the like cause, the medulla spinalis and brain may be totally wanting, or whilst the former attains its natural pro- portions, the latter may remain incomplete to a greater or less extent. Whatever be the degree of deficiency in the cerebro-spinal organs, it is in all cases accompanied by a corresponding defect in the osseous cavity in which it is lodged. In some cases the cranial bones remain as mere rudiments, and the vertebral canal is open in its entire ex- tent, in others the latter is closed, the imperfection being confined to the cranium and brain. It may be here ob- served, that the human foetus, during the progress of its de- velopment, runs through a series of phases or changes, each of which is found to correspond with permanent con- ditions of organization in the animal series. At first the * Geoffroy St. Hilaire, Philosophie Anatomique, tom. ii. passim.