396 ELEMENTS 01' ANATOMY. from the outer or radial border of the flexor tendons, and proceed forwards to the corresponding sides of the fingers, where they are inserted into the tendinous expansion, co- vering the dorsal aspect of the fingers. They are covered by the palmar fascia, and partially by the tendons of the flexor sublimis. The interossei are divided into two sets, viz. those that are perceptible at the dorsal aspect of the metacarpus, and those placed in the palm. 415. The dorsal interossei are four in number, one of them being usually known as the abductor indicis, and usually placed amongst some of the other groups of mus- cles, though in position, mode of attachment, and structure, it is strictly analogous to the other individuals of this set. The general characters of these muscles, like the corre- sponding group in the foot, are, that they lie between the metacarpal bones, and appear on their dorsal aspect, yet project into the palm. They arise from the contiguous sides of the bones, between which they are placed, by fibres that converge to a common tendon; each is moreover bifid at its carpal extremity. 416. a. The first interosseous muscle (abductor indicts) is larger than the others, and lies in the interval between the thumb and index finger. It arises by two heads, of which one, external and larger, is attached to the ulnar border of the first metacarpal bone, the other to the contiguous margin of the second, the angular interval between them serving to transmit the radial artery into the palm of the hand. Both soon unite, and become inserted by a thin tendon into the base of the first phalanx of the index finger, where its fibres also unite with those of the extensor tendon, b. The second dorsal interosseous muscle lies in the second metacarpal space. It arises from both bones, and is inserted tendinous into the radial border of the extensor tendon, covering the first phalanx of the middle finger, c. The third, similarly placed in the third metacarpal space, is inserted into the