587 AORTA—ITS BRANCHES. The colic arteries form a vascular circle along the great intestine. The branches from the convex side of the mesenteric artery esta- blish another range of arches along the small intestine, which is connected to the former by the ileo-colic artery. The superior mesenteric again anastomoses by some branches with the pancrea- tico-duodenalis; the latter, at its root, is in a manner continuous with the pyloric artery, and so on, through the coronary, and its ascending branches, a similar connexion is formed with the ceso- phagean branches, even up to the pharynx. The branches of the abdominal aorta, which arise by pairs, are: 1. Arterice phrenicce. Though these usually arise from the aorta, one sometimes comes from the cceliac. They pass out- wards, diverging from one another, and run for a short way on the crura of the diaphragm, after which they ascend upon the broad part of that muscle, freely ramifying in its structure. 2. Rami capsulares are two or three small twigs, which sup- ply the supra-renal capsules. 3. Arterice renales, vel emulgentes, are two considerable trunks, which issue from the sides of the aorta, between the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. The right is longer than the left, and passes behind the vena cava. Previously to reaching the concave border of the kidney, each artery divides into five or six branches, which ultimately subdivide into ramusculi, and form, by their interlacement, the cortical part of the organ. These arteries are concealed by the corresponding veins. 4. Arterice spermaticce are scarcely so large as a crow-quill: they start from the aorta at an acute angle, just below the renal arteries; the left sometimes arises from the corresponding renal artery. Each of these rests on the psoas muscle, inclosed be- tween two small veins; and, at the lower part of the abdomen, it turns forwards to gain the internal abdominal ring, where it comes into contact with the vas deferens, with which it proceeds to the testis: close by that organ, the artery divides into branches, some of which supply the epididymis, others the body of the testis. 5. Arterice lumbales are five in number, and pass off laterally from the aorta, at right angles with it. These vessels lie on the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, concealed by the psoas muscles. On arriving opposite the roots of the transverse processes, each