DORSAL MUSCLES—THEIR DISSECTION. 367 place, be intersected by two lines, one drawn from the first dorsal vertebra, over the spine of the scapula, the other commencing at the last dorsal vertebra, and carried horizontally outwards. As the space here marked out is so very extensive, it may be ad- visable to make an incision obliquely upwards from the last dorsal vertebra to the spine of the scapula, which will correspond with the lower border of the trapezius muscle ; and the dissection may be commenced by raising the angular flap of skin thus included, proceeding in the direction of the fibres of that muscle, that is to say, from below upwards and outwards. The other portions of integument should be successively raised, taking care to expose accurately the tendinous fibres where they arise from the spinous processes, as they afford a guide to the fleshy part of the muscle. When the latissimus and trapezius have been exposed and exa- mined in their entire extent, which will take some time, in conse- quence of the quantity of surface that is to be gone over, they are to be removed, in order to bring into view the muscles that lie beneath them. For this purpose, the fibres of the trapezius may be detached from their connexion with the clavicle and spine of the scapula, and reflected back to the spine. This will be found easier than the usual plan of detaching it from the latter, both because it is there very thin, and also because its fibres are connected with those of the rhomboid muscle. Its dorsal portion conceals the last-named muscle, and part of the latissimus dorsi; and the cervical, the levator scapulae, the splenius, and complexus. These may be dissected in the course of their fibres, as the tra- pezius is being reflected back towards the middle line, parallel with which it may be separated from its fellow of the opposite side along the cervical region, so as to expose the ligamentum nuchas. The rhomboidei may, in the next place, be detached from the spine of the scapula, and reflected backwards, which is also the easier mode of attaining the end desired, and avoids any risk of raising with it the serratus superior, which is intimately connected with its origin. The aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi may be divided by an incision carried from above downwards, along its middle, and as the external half is reflected outwards, its intimate connexion may be observed with the obliquus abdominis, along the border of the deep lumbar muscles. The other portion of