ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. G74 is attached to the inner surface of the sclerotica, just at its junction with the cornea. Externally it is united, though slightly, with the sclerotica; posteriorly with the choroid membrane ; and an- teriorly with the iris, which may said to be embedded in its substance. It adheres more firmly to the choroid than to the other textures, and by a slight effort is separated from the latter, re- maining attached to the former. The ciliary arteries pass through it, and distribute some twigs to it, as do the ciliary nerves in then- course to the iris. Some anatomists have considered the ciliary ligament as a ganglion in which the ciliary nerves terminate, and from which branches proceed to the iris ; but no instance can be adduced in which a nervous ganglion forms the medium of union and connexion between parts in the same way that this structure does, as we find it attached to the sclerotica, and giving attach- ment to the iris, choroid membrane, and ciliary processes. 712. The choroid membrane is placed between the sclerotica and the retina, extending from the entrance of the optic nerve as far as the ciliary ligament. In the greater part of its extent it is connected, though loosely, to the sclerotica by minute vessels, nerves, and cellular tissue ; but anteriorly the union is established through the medium of the ciliary ligament. The inner surface is in apposition with the retina, or rather with Jacob’s membrane. Posteriorly the choroid presents a foramen, with a well-defined margin, for the transmission of the optic nerve : its anterior termi- nation requires a particular description, as some difference of opinion has existed with regard to it. The membrane consists of two lamellae, which, though separable at the posterior, are united at the anterior part, where it becomes connected with the ciliary ligament: there it drops inwards towards the axis of the eye, and is drawn into a number of delicate folds, the aggregate of which forms a complete circle, resting, like a collar, round the. border of the crystalline lens, and the anterior surface of the vitreous humour. In this manner are formed the ciliary processes, the aggregate of which has been variously named by different anatomists (corpus . ciliare, corona ciliaris). 713. The choroid membrane is essentially vascular in its structure, being composed of minute arteries and veins, united by cellular tissue. The arteries are divided into two sets—the Ions: and short: