THYROID CARTILAGE. 451 They may be compared to two triangular pyramids, resting by their bases on the posterior part of the cricoid carti- lage, and in close contact by their inner borders. The posterior surface of each is smooth and excavated, so as to lodge the arytasnoid muscle ; the anterior, convex in its general outline, gives attachment to the thyro-arytaenoid muscles; the internal is flat, and in apposition with that of the corresponding cartilage. The base is smooth, and (slightly hollowred, for its articulation with the cricoid carti- lage ; to its anterior and external margin are attached the crico-arytaenoideus lateralis, and to the posterior and exter- nal one, the posterior muscle of the same name. The summit becomes pointed, and surmounted by a small cartilaginous granule, or appendage, called corniculum laryngis. 485. The thyroid cartilage (thyroidea, scutiformis) sur- mounts the fore part of the cricoid cartilage, and is the largest and most prominent of the pieces composing the larynx. It consists of two flat lamellae, united along the middle line, in front, so as to form a projecting angle. Each lateral half is somewhat of a square form, its internal surface is smooth, and lined by mucous membrane; the ex- ternal being marked by an oblique line, that gives attach- ment to muscles. The superior border is connected to the os hyoides by a membrane (thyro-liyoid); the inferior by a similar lamella to the cricoid cartilage, and the poste- rior, rather thick and rounded, gives attachment to the fibres of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and is prolonged into processes or cornua. The superior, or great cornu, projects backwards, and is attached by a round fibrous cord (tliyro-liyoid ligament) to the extremity of the great cornu of the os hyoides. The lesser cornu is somewhat thicker, and presents towards its extremity a flat smooth surface, which articulates with the side of the cricoid carti- lage. The anterior surface of the union formed of the la- teral parts is prominent and subcutaneous ; and will be ob- served to be truncated towards the upper margin, so as to 2 g 2