489 CERVICAL PLEXUS—ITS BRANCHES, a branch sent up from the second nerve, having previously given some filaments to the muscles by which it passes. At the point of union also some twigs are sent to commu- nicate with the lingual and vagus nerves at the base of the skull. The anterior branches of the second, third, and fourth nerves will be observed as soon as they appear on the forepart of the neck to send filaments mutually, one to the other, in order to form the cervical plexus, whose branches are divisible into a superficial and a deep set; the latter being placed under cover of the sterno-masto'id, whilst the former lie immediately beneath the fascia, one part of them passing up towards the jaw and ear, the other down to the clavicle. 550. 1. The ascending superficial branches, from the plexus, are three in number. They turn round the poste- rior border of the sterno-masto'id, and will be observed to differ in size and direction, as they lie upon its cutaneous surface, a. The middle or largest branch (nervus auricu- laris magnus, So’e’mm., zigomato-auriculaire, Chauss.) as- cends perpendicularly towards the interval between the lobe of the ear and the angle of the jaw, lying close to the external jugular vein, and, on reaching the parotid gland, divides into branches, one or two of which pass deeply into its substance, and join with those of the facial nerve. The rest of the branches remain superficial, and ra- mify on the integument of the external ear, some at its facial, and one or two at its occipital aspect, b. The in- ternal branch (superficialis colli) inclines obliquely up to- wards the submaxillary gland, giving filaments to the pla- tisma and digastricus, also one or two, which join with the cervical branches of the facial nerve : it finally divides into delicate filaments, which interlace with those of the chorda tympani, as they ramify on the sub-maxillary gland, forming a sort of plexus by their union, c. The posterior branch (occipitalis minor) runs along the posterior border of the