457 CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII. the cheek. The fleshy fibres are attached only at the inner angle of the eye, where they arise from the orbital process of the superior maxillary bone, and from the internal angu- lar process of the frontal, also from the upper border of a narrow tendon, which corresponds with the internal com- missure of the eye-lids. This slip of tendon is attached internally to the ascending process of the superior maxilla, from which it runs outwards, and divides into two fibrous lamellae, corresponding with the lids, and terminating in the tarsal cartilages. One surface of the tendon is subcutane- ous, the other rests on the lachrymal sack, and to its borders are attached most of the fibres of the orbicularis muscle. The fibres of the orbicular muscle thus arising arch upwards and outwards in the direction of the eye-brow, and upper lid, and thence descend on the external angle of the orbit, re- turning to the points above stated. The external or orbital part of the muscle consists of distinct and well-marked fibres, whilst those of the tarsal or inner part are pale and thin ; but all describe concentric curves, the centre of which bounds the aperture of the eye-lids. The external surface of the muscle is subcutaneous in its entire extent; the in- ternal is intimately connected above with the corrugator supercilii, and occipito-frontalis; below, it rests on the origin of the elevator of the upper lip, and the zigomatic muscles ; and internally, on part of the common elevator of the lip and nose, and the lachrymal sack. 498. The corrugator supercilii is a small pyramidal muscle, resting on the eye-brow, whose direction it takes, being altogether concealed by the orbicularis and occipito- frontalis. It arises from the nasal prominence of the os fronds, from which its fibres proceed outwards and a little upwards, and end at the middle of the orbital arch, by becoming blended with those of the two muscles above mentioned, lying between them and the bone. Actions.—The corrugator muscle having its fixed point at the middle line, draws the eye-brow and lid inwards, and throws the