• HERNIA—INGUINAL,—OPERATION. 339 hang over the margin of the table. In the first place, the skin may be made tense over the tumour, by straining it between the fore-finger and thumb of the left hand, if the tumour be small, or if it be large, by supporting it in the palm of the hand, and drawing the skin from behind. The integument may then be divided by an incision drawn over the convexity of the tumour, beginning at its upper extre- mity, or even a little above it, and continued down to the lower, unless it be very large. Another mode of making the first incision is by pinching up the skin into a fold, run- ning transversely with regard to the tumour, and dividing it down to its base, or point of reflexion. When this is done, and the skin is allowed to return to its original posi- tion, the line of the incision through it will be found to cor- respond with the direction of the tumour. This incision will divide the skin and superficial fascia, and also a small vessel, which sometimes requires to be secured, viz., the su- perficial, or external pudic artery. The fascia of the cord becomes by these means exposed, a small piece of which should be pinched up between the blades of the forceps, and cut off close to their points, so as to make an aperture barely sufficient to admit the director. The instrument being passed upwards to the ring, the fascia is to be divided upon it by running the scalpel along its groove, and then downwards to the extent of the external incision. The cremaster is thus brought into view, and is to be divided with equal caution, and after the same manner. The her- nial sack, however, is not yet laid bare, it remains covered by what we have already alluded to as the sub-serous cellular tissue, and by the thin prolongation given off from the mar- gin of the internal ring, and which, as it descends, gradually degenerates into cellular tissue. This “ must be cautiously cut through,” by employing the forceps, director, and scalpel, as above stated, and so the peritonaeal investment, or the proper hernial sack is exposed; to open which requires “ the utmost caution.” The operator should “ nip up a z 2