270 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 285. The gluteal artery (la fessiere, Chauss.) inclines downwards and outwards, so as to reach the border of the sciatic notch, beneath which it turns, in order to appear on the dorsum of the pelvis. Its trunk will be found, accom- panied by the gluteal vein and nerve, in the interval be- tween the contiguous borders of the gluteus medius, and pyriformis muscles, but it instantly divides into branches, one of which runs between the gluteus maximus and me- dius, and is superficial relatively to the other, which is placed between the latter muscle and the gluteus minimus. a. The first branch sends off in its course several ramus- culi, which are distributed, some inwards (after piercing the tendinous origin of the gluteus maximus) to the side of the sacrum, anastomosing with the posterior branches of the sacral arteries; others pass outwards between the gluteal muscles, which they supply, b. The second, or deep branch, situated between the gluteus medius and minimus, runs in an arched direction forwards, and may be said to divide into two branches. The superior one holding the course of the vessel from which it arises, proceeds beneath the glu- teus medius and tensor vaginae femoris, towards the ante- rior spine of the ileum, and anastomoses with the ascending branches of the external circumflex, after having freely supplied the muscles between which it passes. The other branch descends towards the great trochanter, supplies the gluteal muscles, and anastomoses with the internal circum- flex. 286. The sciatic artery (arteria ischiadica) is smaller than the gluteal, and arises somewhat lower down. It oc- casionally forms a common trunk with the pudic artery, in other instances it gives off that vessel, when it is about to leave the pelvis. Placed for some way upon the pelvic sur- face of the pyriformis muscle, and the sciatic plexus of nerves, it soon turns backwards beneath the border of that muscle, lodged in the interval between it and the superior gemellus. In this situation it lies in the interval between the