INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 477 the plan of arrangement indicated by Cloquet, and divide them into four sets, corresponding with the points above referred to. 529. 1. Branches of the internal maxillary artery given off near the ramus of the jaw. a. —A tympanal branch (arteria tympanica) passes deeply behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and enters the fissura glasseri, supplying the laxator tympani, and ramifying in the cavity of that name, as well as on its membrane. b. — mcningea parva sometimes arises from the succeeding branch, or from one of those given to the pterygoid muscles. It ascends between the pterygoid plate and the circumflexus palati, and enters the skull, through the foramen ovale, to supply the dura mater. c. —meningea media, vel magna, is by far the largest of the branches given to the dura mater. It passes directly upwards to the foramen spinale, which transmits it to the interior of the skull, where it will be observed to run in a groove marked on the great ala of the sphenoid bone, the squamous part of the tempo- ral and the inferior angle of the parietal. From the last point it branches out, its ramifications corresponding with the arborescent lines traced on the cranial bones, but intimately connected with the dura mater, so that if the latter be detached from the skull, the artery and its branches will be carried with it. d. —Ramus maxillaris inferior, vel dentalis, enters the dental canal, accompanied by the nerve of the same name, and runs from be- hind forwards to the foramen mentale, through which it escapes on the face. In its course the vessel lies beneath the roots of the teeth, and gives at intervals small twigs, which ascend and enter the minute apertures in their points, and finally ramify in the pulp of each tooth. Near the foramen mentale a branch passes for- wards, beneath the incisors, which it supplies and inosculates at the symphysis of the chin, with a corresponding artery from the opposite side. Its terminal branches on the face anastomose with the coronary and submental arteries. 530. 2. Branches given off whilst the artery is between the pterygoid muscles.