471 FACIAL ARTERY. surface of the jaw-bone, it is covered only by the integument and platisma, being close to the border of the masseter, where its pulsation can readily be felt. The artery thence ascends, inclining towards the angle of the mouth, being crossed by the depressor anguli oris, and the zigomatici. And finally, becoming much diminished in size, by having given off several branches, it ascends under the name of ramus angularis by the side of the nose, covered by the common elevator muscle, and terminates at the angle of the eye, by two or three very small ramusculi, which anas- tomose with the nasal branches of the ophthalmic artery. Its branches are numerous, and may conveniently be di- vided into two sets; the first consisting of those given off before the vessel reaches the jaw, being usually three or four, the second, of those distributed to the face, varying from five to six. a. —Arteria palatina inferior ascends between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus, reaching the pharynx, close by the border of the internal pterygoid muscle. After having given small twigs to the tonsil, styloid muscles, and Eustachian tube, it divides near the side of the levator palati into two ramusculi, of which one follows the course of the circumflexus palati muscle, and ra- mifies on the soft palati and its glands, whilst the other passes to the tonsil, supplying it, and anastomosing with the following branch. b. — tonsillaris ascends by the stylo-glossus to the side of the pharynx, and terminates by dividing into several ramusculi, which are distributed to the tonsil and side of the tongue. c. —A fasciculus of small branches passes into the substance of the submaxillary gland, whilst the artery is in contact with it; some of these are prolonged to the side of the tongue. d. — submentalis departs from the artery near its turn round the jaw, and runs forwards, between the mylo-hyoideus and digas- tricus, close to the margin of the bone. At the symphysis of the chin, it divides (after having previously given twigs to the sub- maxillary gland and muscles) into two branches, one of which, more superficial than the other, passes between the depressor labii infe-