549 PERINjEUM—LEVATOR ANI. firm than the preceding, which is extended upwards upon it from the thin, or falciform edge, of the great sciatic liga- ment, of which it may be regarded as a prolongation. This fascia becomes united to the fascia pelvica along the line above indicated, and may be said to determine its point of flexion; and from the angle which they form by their union, arises the middle part of the levator ani. Thir fact may be easily ascertained by dividing the obturator fascia for an inch, or a little more, and then passing a probe between it and the obturator muscle. It will then be found, as the instrument is being moved backwards and forwards, that the greater part of the levator ani is attached only to these membranes. The muscle then arises, anteriorly, from the pubis, near its symphysis, and immediately above its arch—posteriorly, from the spine of the ischium, and along the intervening space from the angle formed by the union of the obturator and pelvic fasciae. From this ex- tensive origin the fibres proceed downwards and inwards, the posterior set being fixed to the side of the coccyx; those next them in order unite by a raphe with the corres- ponding muscle, in the interval between the coccyx and the margin of the anus ; the middle fibres are inserted into the extremity of the rectum, becoming connected with those of the internal sphincter, and the anterior ones pass on the side of the prostate, some of them uniting with those of the corresponding muscle beneath the membranous part of the urethra. In the female, the fibres of this muscle, pre- viously to reaching the rectum, descend by the vagina, and become intimately connected with it. 609. The compressor urethra (Wilson), compressor prostata (Soem.), is a narrow fasciculus that arises close by the pubic symphysis, immediately before the anterior fibres of the levator ani, and from which it is merely separated by a small vein and a little cellular tissue. The muscle descends close to its fellow of the opposite side, and beneath the membranous part of the urethra, both of