212 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. summit of the great trochanter by a rounded tendon, whose fibres are blended somewhat with those of the gluteus me- dius. Direction—downwards and outwards: structure— fleshy and tendinous: relations—within the pelvis it is placed behind the sciatic plexus of nerves, the internal iliac vessels, and the rectum (the last more especially at the left side). Outside the pelvis one surface rests on the ischium and the fibrous capsule of the hip joint, the other is covered by the gluteus maximus; its superior border is parallel with the gluteus medius, from which it is separated by the gluteal vessels as they emerge from the pelvis, the inferior with the gemellus superior and the sciatic nerve. 230. The gemelli (ischio-trochanterien, Chauss.; ischio- spino-trochanterien, Dumas) situated at the posterior and external part of the pelvis, are two in number, and named from their position superior and inferior, the latter being the larger. The superior one arises from the spinous pro- cess of the ischium, the inferior from the upper and back part of the tuberosity of that bone, and both are inserted into the digital or trochanteric fossa, together with the ten- don of the obturator internus, which they enclose and almost conceal. Direction—transverse: structure—tendi- nous at their insertion, fleshy in the rest of their extent: relations—their posterior surface is covered by the sciatic nerve and gluteus maximus muscle, the anterior surface rests on the ischium and fibrous capsule of the hip joint, the smaller gemellus corresponds by its upper border with the pyriformis, the larger by its lower border with the tendon of the obturator externus, the contiguous borders of each being intimately connected with the tendon of the obturator internus which runs between them. 231. The obturator internus, (sous-pubio-trochanterien Chauss.; intra-pelvio-trochanterien, Dumas) is situated chiefly within the pelvis, a small part only being placed on its external surface. Form—flat and triangular. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres, from the inner flat surface of