ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 268 uterus, and vagina; these shall be described when we treat of the organs they supply. The rest, consisting of the lar- ger vessels, which consist of the branches sent to the mus- cles within and upon the pelvis, we shall describe in this place. They are as follows: the ileo-lumbar, obturator, gluteal, and sciatic arteries. 283. The ileo-lumbar artery (Viliaco-musculaire, Chauss.) resembles the lumbar branches of the aorta in direction and distribution. It passes outwards, beneath the psoas muscle and external iliac vessels, to reach the margin of the iliac fossa, where it divides into two sets of branches. Of these, one passes upwards, ramifying in the psoas and quadratus muscles, where some of them communicate with those of the last lumbar arteries, whilst others enter the inter- vertebral foramina, and supply the parts lodged in the ver- tebral canal. The rest of its branches turn downwards and outwards, either in the substance of the iliacus muscle, or between it and the surface of the ileum. Some of these reach the crista and spine of that bone, where they anasto- mose with the circumflexa ilei, and, if followed with atten- tion, some can be traced forwards through the abdominal muscles, which they supply, and in which they communicate with the external branches of the epigastric artery. 284. The obturator artery (la sous pubio-femorale, Chauss.) arises from the internal iliac, or one of its large branches, (gluteal or sciatic) and not unfrequently from the epigastric. The course and length of the internal, or pel- vic portion of the vessel, will vary materially in these cases; the external, or femoral, is usually uniform. According to J. Cloquet, who noted its distribution in more than two hundred instances, the number in which it arises from the iliac, as compared with that from the epigastric, may be stated as three to one. When the obturator artery arises from the internal iliac, it passes forwards close to the obtu- rator internus muscle, and a little beneath the nerve of the same name, with which it gradually comes into contact.