ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 290 almost vertically in the sacral canal, to reach the foramina through which they are transmitted; and as they are di- vided into a number of filaments, proceeding from a root, or common point of attachment, they assume that peculiar ap- pearance which has given rise to the term usually applied to them—cauda equina. While yet within the sacral canal, the two roots, by which each nerve arises, unite to form a common trunk, which soon divides into branches that take quite an opposite course, one being directed backwards, the other forwards. 309. The posterior branches of the four superior sacral nerves, like those of the lumbar set, are much smaller than the anterior; they pass backwards through the posterior sacral foramina, penetrate the tendinous origin of the sa- cro-lumbalis muscle, to which they distribute filaments in their passage, and become sub-cutaneous. Each of these branches inclines outwards lying on the fascia that covers the gluteus maximus muscle, and is finally distributed to the skin covering the nates. The posterior branches of the two last sacral nerves are much smaller than any of the others; they pass downwards and forwards to supply the integuments round the margin of the anus. 310. The anterior branches of the sacral nerves pass for- wards through the anterior sacral foramina, and are placed deeply in the cavity of the pelvis, where they form a plex- us, not as in other instances, by sending fasciculi from one to the other, so as to constitute an interlacement, but by an union of their fibres, forming a large compressed cord, from which nerves are given off. This plexus (plexus sacralis vel ischiadicus) is situated at the posterior and lateral part of the pelvis, resting on the surface of the pyriformis mus- cle, crossed by some of the branches of the internal iliac artery, and covered (particularly at the left side) by the rectum. It is formed by the union of the anterior branches of the four first sacral nerves, together with the communi- cating nerve sent down from the fourth and fifth lumbar