600 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. in arteries, as has been observed by two Italian physiologists, Giulio and Rossi; and Sir E. Home succeeded in producing the same effect by irritating a neighbouring nerve. These direct proofs of the irritability of arteries derive additional support from several pathological facts. “ The increased pulsation of the larger vessels, supplying an inflamed part, sufficiently evinces their in- creased action Thus, if paronychia occur in one of the fin- gers, the corresponding radial artery will pulsate more strongly than that of the opposite hand. In cases of hemiplegia the force is considerably diminished at the affected side, though it remains quite natural at the other, a proof that the arteries possess a power independent of the heart, and which is attributable to their irritabi- lity. The degree in which these two properties of arteries, elasticity and irritability, are manifested, differs according to the size of the vessels; the larger are more elastic, the smaller more irritable. This latter property is more or less subjected to nervous influence: towards the decline of life, both gradually diminish. Harvey imagined that the heart was the sole agent in carrying on the circulation. According to his view of its mechanism, the impulse communicated to the blood, at each contraction of the ventricles, is sufficient to overcome not only the obstacles in the arterial half of the circle, but also to bring up to the right auricle the current of blood, forcing into it, at one side, a quantity equal to that expelled at the other. According to this hypothesis too much was attributed to the heart, and too little to the arteries: still it formed the basis of some very elaborate calculations, entered into to shew the power of the heart, by estimating the quantity of resistance it had to overcome ; but the total discrepancy in the results shewed the inadequacy of the data on which the calcula- tions were founded. Borelli estimated the heart’s force as being equal to 135,000 pounds; whilst Keill reduced it to 5 ounces-]-. That the vessels assist in carrying on the circulation may be in- ferred from the following facts: — 1. They appear before the heart in the human embryo; and in several of the lower animals, in which there is no heart, the vessels alone propel the fluids. In * Thomson, Loc. cit. t Essay on several Purls of the Animal Economy, by J. Keill, pp. 80—87.