ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 418 ously to reaching the elbow, and before its division, the nerve sends off several small and delicate branches to supply the skin that covers the biceps and triceps mus- cles. 439. 5. The external cutaneous nerve (musculo-cutane- ous, nervus perforans) issues from the superior and external part of the plexus, being intermediate in size between the preceding nerve and the ulnar. Its direction is outwards and downwards, so as to reach the border of the coraco- brachialis muscle, the fibres of which it in most cases pierces, but sometimes passes behind it. In either case, the nerve passes between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscle, where it gives off three or four branches to the muscles between which it lies, the continuation of the nerve being intended for the skin, whence its name, musculo-cuta- neous. After this the nerve inclines outwards as it descends, reaches the outer border of the arm, and pierces the fascia, so as to come into contact with the median cephalic vein, be- hind which it lies. The nerve is thus placed between the fascia and integument, at the external or radial border of the fore-arm, along which it continues to descend as far as the wrist, where it terminates by dividing into two sets of fila- ments, one of which ramifies on the skin covering the ante- rior, the other in that on the posterior aspect of the carpus. The branches given off by the nerve in its entire course, are divisible into two sets, one muscular, the other cutaneous, whence its name. The muscular branches consist of three or four filaments distributed to the flexor muscles; one may be traced for some way in the interior of the coraco- brachialis, arising from the nerve whilst passing through its substance, or beneath it; the others go to the biceps and brachialis. The cutaneous branches not only supply the integument of the fore-arm, but also maintain commu- nications with the internal cutaneous nerve on the one hand, and the cutaneous branches of the spiral on the other, by filaments which take a curved direction, and unite with si-