424 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. nerve in direction, though not in size. It proceeds directly downwards, guided by the supinator longus, giving several branches, usually five or six, which are distributed to the extensor and supinator muscles. In the middle third of the arm, the nerve, considerably reduced in size, comes into contact with the radial artery, and lies to its outer side for some way. It, after a while, inclines outwards, beneath the tendons of the supinator longus, to reach the external bor- der of the fore-arm, upon which it descends, lying superfi- cial to the extensors of the thumb. Near the carpus it di- vides into two, or sometimes into three branches. One of these runs along the radial border of the thumb, forming its first posterior collateral branch. Another corresponds with the first metacarpal space, and divides, for the supply of the ulnar border of the thumb, and the adjacent border of the fore-finger. The third, after having given a branch from its ulnar side, which supplies the contiguous borders of the ring and middle fingers, proceeds forwards in the second metacarpal space, and divides into two collateral branches for the supply of the index and middle fingers, (their adjacent borders). This branch of the spiral nerve will thus supply, besides the thumb, both sides of the index and middle fingers, and one side of the ring finger. In some cases both sides of the latter receive their nerves from the ulnar, and, occasionally, its radial collateral branch is derived from an interlacement formed by the ramifi- cations of the ulnar and spiral nerve. The branches of the spiral nerve are numerous. Two or three, of considerable size, are given to the triceps, whilst the nerve is in contact with it. One of these ultimately becomes cutaneous, and is sometimes called nervus cutaneous externus superior. It ramifies for some way in the integument covering the ex- ternal and anterior part of the arm, and even of the fore- arm, where it communicates with the branches of the pro- per external cutaneous nerve. Then it gives the different muscular branches above-mentioned, to the supinators and