ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 370 The flat portion of the muscle here described, after being extended across the axilla, is inserted into the anterior bor- der of the bicipital groove in the humerus, its cutaneous surface being muscular, the axillary tendinous. Direction —the superior fibres descend a little as they pass outwards; those immediately below them are horizontal; the rest ascend with increasing degrees of obliquity: structure— aponeurotic at its internal and external attachments, fleshy in the rest of its extent: relations—the aponeurotic fibres of its internal border decussate with those of the corre- sponding muscle in front of the sternum; the inferior border overlaps the serratus magnus, and the superior runs parallel with that of the deltoid muscle, from which it is only sepa- rated by the cephalic vein, and a small artery. The anterior surface is sub-cutaneous in the greater part of its extent, being only covered by some of the fibres of the platisma myoides, and by the mamma. The posterior surface, be- sides the sternum, clavicle, and ribs, is in relation with the pectoralis minor, subclavius, and serratus magnus muscles, which it covers, and also with the axillary vessels and nerves. The lower border of this muscle is at first sepa- rated from that of the latissimus dorsi by a considerable interval, in which may be observed the fibres of the serratus magnus; but they gradually converge towards the axilla, forming its folds or borders. 372. The pectoralis minor (costo-coracoidien) lies at the superior part of the thorax, covered altogether by the pre- ceding muscle, and extended obliquely across the axilla. It arises from the external surface of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, near their cartilages, its margin being usually den- tated, so that some of the older anatomists named it serratus anticus minor. The fleshy fibres, as they proceed obliquely upwards and outwards, converge to a narrow tendon, which is inserted into the inner and upper border of the coracoid process near its extremity. Its direction and structure have been here sufficiently indicated. Relations—the an-