284 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. communicating branch, which is of considerable size, has been named lumbosacral, the former, though very small and delicate, may with equal propriety be termed lumbo- dorsal. The lumbar plexus thus constituted, gives off the following branches, which if taken in the order of their ori- gin, from above downwards, may be thus arranged: the musculo-cutaneous, external cutaneous, external pudic, the crural and obturator nerves, and lastly, the lumbo-sacral, or communicating branch. 302. 1. The musculo-cutaneous branches are usually two in number, and are derived either from the first lumbar nerve, or in some cases from the filament sent from it to the second. Both pass downwards and outwards from under the psoas muscle, supported on the quadratus lumborum, to the posterior part of the crista ilei. While in the lumbar re- gion, these branches run parallel, one being placed a little superior and external to the other, a. The external branch (;ileoscrotal, or ileo-inguinal) on reaching the posterior part of the crista ilei, gets between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles, and divides into two ramusculi, one of which, after giving some twigs to the transversalis and iliacus, pierces the abdominal muscles, becomes subcutaneous on the posterior part of the ileum, and is distributed to the skin over the gluteus medius and maximus. The other proceeds obliquely forwards and inwards, as far as the an- terior superior spine of the ileum, and then takes the direc- tion of the crural arch. On reaching the abdominal ring, it passes outwards, together with the spermatic cord, to which it distributes several filaments; some also reach the skin of the scrotum, others that on the pubes and labia in fe- males. The distribution of the branches of this nerve indi- cates the propriety of the names applied to it, viz. ileo-scro- tal, or ileo-inguinal. b. The second, or more internal branch, after descending a little, lies on the fascia iliaca, covered by the peritonaeum. After running for a while parallel, and within half an inch of the crista ilei, it passes through the