129 THE BASE OF TIIE SKULL ITS FORAMINA. another, running transversely between each palate bone and the corresponding maxillary bone. Anteriorly, and in the middle line, is a foramen (the anterior palatine,'] which, in the floor of the nares, is double, but becomes single inferiorly, and transmits the naso- palatine nerve and artery ; on each side, and at the base of the alveolar border is another foramen (posterior palatine,) for the posterior palatine nerves and artery. The anterior boundary of this region, being formed by the alveolar borders of both jaws, and the body of the lower one, presents those several eminences, de- pressions, and foramina, already enumerated in the descriptions of the bones. The middle, or guttural region, extends from the pte- rygoid processes as far as the mastoid processes, thus including the posterior aperture of the nares, and the central part of the base of the skull. In the centre is situated the basilar process of the oc- cipital bone, marked by slight inequalities, for the attachment of muscles, and towards its posterior extremity, the anterior condy- loid foramina, which transmit the ninth pair of nerves. On each side is the pars petrosa of the temporal bone, in which may be ob- served the styloid and vaginal processes ; more posteriorly, the jugular fossa, which is completed into a foramen, (foramen lace- rum, posterius) by the border of the occipital bone. This is divided into two parts by a spicula of bone, or a fibrous band, the internal and anterior one serving to transmit the glosso-pharyngeal, par vagum, and spinal accessory nerves, the other the jugular vein. Between the apex of the pars petrosa, and the side of the basilar process, and the body of the sphenoid bone, is the foramen la- cerum anterius, which is nearly closed by cartilage, and transmits the vidian nerve, after it has passed backwards through the ptery- goid foramen, in the base of the process of the same name. Be- tween the contiguous margins of the pars petrosa and the great ala of the sphenoid bone is a groove, which leads backwards and outwards, and lodges the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube ; and beside the osseous part of that tube, and separated from it by a thin lamella of bone, is the orifice of the canal which trans- mits the tensor tympani muscle. The foramina of this region, taken in their order, from within outwards and backwards, are, the foramen ovale, foramen spinosum, foramen caroticum, and stylo-mastoideum. The anterior part of this region is continuous with the posterior K