CEREBRAL NERVE—EIGHTH PAIR. G57 several filaments will be observed to pass from this plexus to the other constrictor muscles also. b. The descending or superior laryngeal nerve passes down- wards and inwards behind the internal carotid artery, and divides into two branches, both being intended to ramify in the structures of the larynx. The external branch passes on the side of the larynx, and gives filaments to the crico-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles, and to the thyroid gland: the internal one pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane, together with the laryngeal artery, and is distributed to the arytaenoid and crico-arytaenoid muscles, in which its filaments communicate with those of the recurrent, or ascending laryngeal nerve. c. Below the middle of the neck two or three filaments (cardiac branches') are given off, which unite with those of the superficialis cordis (a branch of the great sympathetic), and from the inter- lacement formed between them branches are continued down to the arch of the aorta, where they contribute to form the cardiac plexus. d. The recurrent, or inferior laryngeal nerve, at the right side turns round the subclavian artery, to gain its posterior aspect, after which it inclines obliquely inwards behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, to reach the side of the larynx. At the left side the nerve descends into the thorax parallel with the subclavian artery, and the recurrent passes in front of the arch of the aorta and turns behind it, inclining obliquely upwards and inwards, to reach the side of the trachea. Whilst making its turn the recurrent nerve of each side gives off some filaments to the pulmonary plexus. When arrived at the top of the trachea the recurrent gives some small filaments to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and then enters the cavity of the larynx, where it gives branches to the crico-arytaenoid and arytaenoid muscles, communicating at the same time with the superior laryngeal nerve. e. The tracheal branches run for a short way on both surfaces of the trachea, the posterior set being much more numerous. Both form plexus (anterior and posterior pulmonary), from which branches pass along the bronchi to their final terminations. It has been observed that whilst the nerves run on the oesophagus 2 u