PERONEUS TERTIUS — EXTENSOR BREVIS. 219 dorsum of the foot the inner one divides into two parts, so as to constitute four tendons, corresponding in number with the four lesser toes, into the last phalanges of which they are inserted ; towards their termination the tendons expand into an aponeurosis, covering the upper surface of the pha- langes; and this is strengthened hy the tendons of the ex- tensor brevis, and gives attachment also to the lumbricales and interossei: structure—fleshy and tendinous: relations —it is covered in front by the fascia of the leg, the annular ligament and integument, posteriorly it rests on the fibula, interosseous ligament, the ankle joint, and extensor brevis digitorum; externally it is in relation with the peronei muscles, internally with the tibialis anticus, and extensor proprius pollicis. 240. Th eperoneus ter tins (petit-peroneo-sus-metatarsien, Chauss.) is situated on the anterior and external aspect of the leg. Form,—elongated, flat. It arises from the lower third of the anterior surface of the fibula, the interosseous ligament, and an aponeurosis which connects it on the outer side with the peroneus brevis; and is inserted inferiorly into the external surface of the tarsal end of the fifth metatar- sal bone : direction—vertical in the leg, obliquely forwards and outwards on the foot: structure—fleshy in the upper portion, tendinous in the lower: relations—the posterior border corresponds with the fibula, interosseous ligament, and peroneus brevis, the outer surface is covered by the fascia of the leg, the inner is confounded with the extensor digitorum communis, of which it may with propriety be con- sidei’ed as a part. It passes in conjunction with the common extensor under the annular ligament, and is invested by the same synovial membrane; on the foot it is placed on the ex- tensor digitorum brevis, and last metatarsal bone. 241. The extensor brevis digitorum (calcaneo-sus-phalan- gettien commun, Chauss,, Dumas) is situated on the dorsum of the foot. Form—broad and thin; single at its origin, divided into four parts in front. It arises from the dorsal