ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 612 no precise line of demarcation between the latter and the posterior. The relation of size, form, and situation of the different objects seen on the external surface of the brain, should be carefully noted, as allusions are constantly being made to them during the description of the parts deeply seated, and also when tracing the progress of its develop- ment in the human subject, or in the animal series, and particularly when, after the manner of Gall and Spurzheim, we follow the course of the nervous fibres through the suc- cessive steps of their expansion, from the medulla upwards into the cerebral hemispheres. Nothing of consequence remains to be noticed on the superior and external surface in addition to those already alluded to. The inferior sur- face presents in the middle line, and in front, a fissure, being the continuation of the longitudinal one, which establishes a separation between the hemispheres. It lodges the ante- rior extremity of the falx cerebri, and its depth is limited by the corpus callosum, which passes across from one he- misphere to the other. The inferior surface of each ante- rior lobe, as it corresponds with the orbital plate on which it rests, is slightly concave. A few lines external to the longitudinal fissure, and parallel with it, is a groove, re- sembling one of the sulci, which lodges the olfactory nerve, and at its posterior extremity is a rounded papilla, from which one root of that nerve is derived. Posterior to this groove is the fissure (Jissura Sylvii) which marks the sepa- ration between the anterior and middle lobes, and lodges the middle artery of the brain. It inclines from within outwards and upwards, and gradually terminates amongst the convolutions on the exterior of the hemisphere, its direction corresponding with that of the smaller wing of the sphenoid bone. At its internal termination it forms a right angle with another fissure, which extends from be- fore backwards, and which is bounded externally by the middle lobe, internally by the crus cerebri and tractus op- ticus, and deserves notice because it transmits the pia