523 THE URETHRA. bladder. The fascia transversalis (p. 331), it will also be recollected, is continued down behind the pubic symphysis, and on reaching the forepart of the neck of the bladder is reflected on its upper surface. From the point of reflexion two dense fasciculi of fibres, (one at each side of the median line, with a slight cellular interval between them) pass also upon the upper surface of the bladder ; these are the ante- rior ligaments. As the peritonaeum is being reflected to and from the bladder, it necessarily forms certain folds or duplicatures, which have been termed ligaments. Two of these will be observed extending from its sides to the iliac fossae, and two posteriorly, corresponding with the course of the umbilical arteries; but, instead of checking its mo- tions, they serve rather as provisions to admit of the changes consequent on distension, and therefore should not be called ligaments. Male Organs of Generation. 580. The urethra is a membranous tube, extended in the male from the neck of the bladder to the extremity of the penis, serving not only as an outlet for the urine, but also for the seminal fluid. Its length has been very dif- ferently stated by different persons. It is usually set down as being from nine to twelve inches ; but an examination of a considerable number of cases made to determine this point, gave, as the greatest length, nine inches and a half, and the least, seven inches and a half.* Its diameter varies in different parts, being about four lines wide in the greater part of its extent, and from two and a half to three at its orifice.*!' The tube consists of two structures, one being the mucous lining, continuous with that of the bladder, the other a lamella of cellular membrane, resembling the sub- mucous tissue elsewhere, and which serves to connect it with the contiguous structures found along its course. The * Whateley, on the Treatment of Strictures. t Sir E. Home, Practical Observations on the Treatment of Strictures.