AXILLARY ARTERY. 399 major.* In this short course, the direction of the vessel is outwards, downwards, and a little backwards, so that when the arm hangs freely by the side, it describes a curve, whose convexity looks towards the acromion, and concavity to- wards the chest. It is accompanied by the axillary vein and brachial plexus of nerves, which lie at different sides of it; hence, in order that we may state precisely the rela- tion of these vessels, as well as of the muscles to the artery, it becomes necessary to consider it, not as a cylindrical tube, but as if it were compressed so as to present four sides. The acromial side at first corresponds with a small cellular interval that separates it from the plexus of nerves, then with the divisions of the plexus, which are in close contact with it, and lower down, with the tendon of the sub- scapular muscle, and finally, at its termination, with the coraco-brachialis, which is interposed between it and the humerus. The thoracic side of the vessel rests on the first intercostal space, then on the first digitation of the serratus magnus. When it passes off the chest into the axillary space, it lies in the cellular interval between the serratus and subscapularis, and becomes supported by the nerves which here surround the vessel. The anterior surface is covered by the pectoralis major and costo-coracoid liga- ment, or membrane, in the space between the subclavius and pectoralis minor, then by the latter and pectoralis major together, and finally, by the last-named muscle, which covers it to its termination. Its posterior surface is supported by some cellular membrane, and the deep divi- sions of the brachial plexus. The vein, at first separated from the artery by the insertion of the scalenus anticus muscle, lies anterior and internal to it, that is to say, to its thoracic side; lower down it comes in front of the artery, and conceals it from view, when we look into the axillary space. The space here referred to, when cleared of the cellular tissue and glands that fill it, the arm being removed * Boyer, TraM d’Anatomic, tom. iii.