130 ELEMENTS OP ANATOMY. aperture of the nares, which is divided into two parts by the vo- mer. It is bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, be- low by the palate plates of the ossa palati, and on the sides by the pterygoid processes. The pterygoid groove, inclosed by these processes, is completed inferiorly by the pyramidal process of the palate bone; near its junction with the body of the bone is the di- gital cavity, for the origin of the circumflexus palati; and, at its inferior termination, is the hamular process, round which the ten- don of that muscle is reflected. Between the base of this process and the posterior palatine foramen, are situated one or two smaller foramina, leading down from the posterior palatine canal, and which transmit one or two small branches from the descending or posterior palatine artery and nerve. The posterior part of the inferior region includes all that is situ- ated between the occipital protuberance, and a line connecting the mastoid processes. It is divided into two lateral parts by a ridge, extending to the foramen magnum from the occipital protuberance, from which two rough curved lines branch outwards, giving at- tachment to muscles; as do also the spaces between the lines, and that between the inferior one and the foramen magnum. On the margins of the foramen, but nearer to its anterior termination, are the condyles, which articulate with the first vertebra; behind each is a rough depression (condyloid fossa,) and usually a foramen, [posterior condyloid, foramen,) which transmits a small vein and artery. The anterior region of the skull is of an oval form, and extends from the frontal eminences to the chin, and from the external bor- der of the orbit and ramus of the jaw, on one side, to the corres- ponding points on the other, so as to include the whole of the face. The eminences, depressions, fossae, and foramina, observ- able in this region, are as follows, viz. the frontal eminences, more or less prominent in different individuals, bounded inferiorly by two slight depressions, which separate them from the superciliary ridges; these curve outwards, from the nasal process of the frontal bone. Beneath the superciliary ridge, on each side, is the margin of the orbit, marked, at its inner third, by a groove, or a foramen, which transmits the frontal nerve and supra-orbital artery; and also by a slight depression, which gives attachment to the cartila- ginous pulley of the trochlearis muscle. At an interval, corres-