431 BRACHIAL VESSELS OPERATIONS. teral branches. It is often necessary to make incisions along the fingers, and into the palm of the hand, to give exit to matter. Now it will at once be obvious, that as the collateral branches run along the borders of the fingers, an incision may, without any risk of injuring them, be made over the middle of the phalanges in their entire length. But the question arises how far may the incision be prolonged into the palm, or how may it be made so as to avoid the digital branches ? The digital branches run along the meta- carpal spaces, consequently an incision may be made over the middle of each metacarpal bone without hesitation ; but if carried back too far, it would certainly cut across the palmar arch. The ulnar artery, it will be recollected, arches forwards and outwards across the palm of the hand, its curve commencing at the pisiform bone, and ending about midway between the first joint of the thumb and that of the fore-finger. The most anterior part of the arch will be observed to correspond with a transverse line marked in the skin of the hand; and so far incisions may be extended into the palm, along the centre of the phalanges and metacarpal bones. It may be said that, as the linear mark is effaced in the cedematous condition of the hand, induced by deep-seated inflam- mation, it cannot serve as a guide or limit to our incisions. Its place, however, may at once be indicated, by slightly bending the first joint of the thumb, and applying its phalanges close to the bor- der of the hand; the fissure, or fold, at its palmar surface, will then be found to correspond with the line here alluded to, and will therefore mark the extent to which the incisions may be carried. Operations.—The radial artery is very easily exposed and tied in the lower part of its course,—in the part where the pulse is usually felt, namely, where the vessel lies between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. The margin of the former serves as a guide to its situation. The length of the incision through the skin may be two inches, or a little more, after which the fascia may be divided to the same extent. When this is done, it may be found convenient, slightly to bend the hand, in order to relax the muscles, after which, a thin lamella of fascia, which binds down the artery, may be cautiously divided, so that the needle may be passed round the vessel. Higher up in the arm the incision must be fully three inches long, its direc- tion being indicated by a line drawn from midway between the