072 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. towards its outer side, with the lachrymal gland; and in- ternally with the caruncula and lachrymal sack. 708. The eye is composed of concentric membranes and humours; the former are not unfrequently called coats, or tunics, but as none of them forms a complete investment the term is not so applicable as that here adopted. The membranes are the conjunctiva, sclerotica, cornea, choroid, retina, and iris, the capsule of the crystalline lens, the hyaloid membrane, and that of the aqueous humour. 709. The conjunctiva (membrana conjunctiva, sive. adnata) lines the free border and inner surface of the eye-lids, from which it is reflected on the globe of the eye, so as to cover its anterior third: towards the inner canthus of the eye it forms a small crescent-shaped fold, which in the human subject is but a rudi- ment of the membrana nictitans of birds. Along the borders of the lids it is continuous with the skin, and by lining the puncta lachrymalia, forms a continued surface with the mucous membrane of the lachrymal passages and nasal fossae. It is red and vascular on the lids, but firm and pale on the sclerotica: it becomes thin and transparent on the cornea, so much so, that some anato- mists have doubted whether it extends over the entire of its surface. 710. The sclerotica (cornea opacci), firm and resistant in its texture, forms about four-fifths of the external investment of the eye, extending from the entrance of the optic nerve to the border of the cornea. Its external surface is convex, and in relation with the conjunctiva, the expansions of the muscles, and the vessels and nerves of the orbit: the internal is concave, and in apposition with the choroid membrane, with which it is connected by vascu- lar and nervous filaments, and by some delicate cellular tissue. Posteriorly it is pierced by a small circular aperture, for the transmission of the optic nerve, situated a little to the inner side of the axis of the globe : anteriorly it is truncated, so as to leave an aperture about six lines in diameter, but somewhat greater in the transverse than in the vertical direction. The inner edge of this aperture is slightly bevelled off, so as to allow the cornea to