STERNO-HYOIDEUS. 435 placed beneath the skin in the lower animals. The upper part of the muscle may assist in depressing the angle of the mouth, and when its action is general, the skin of the neck becomes slightly creased or wrinkled. When the two sterno-mastoid muscles act together, they bow the head forwards; but if one acts by itself, it is enabled, by the obliquity of its direction, to turn the head, and therefore the chin, to the opposite side. It has been said that this muscle can draw the head down to its own side, approximating the ear to the shoulder. But to effect this, its action must bp combined with that of some other muscle, as the splenius; for then, as the latter arises from the spinous processes, whilst the former comes from the sternum, both converging to the mastoid process, the head may, by their combined effort, be drawn down to the point intermediate between their attachments, namely, to the acromion process. There are five muscles at the fore part of the neck, be- neath the os hyoides. 451. The sterno-hyoideus lies at the fore part of the neck, close to the middle line, and immediately beneath the skin and fascia. It arises from the first bone of the ster- num, (its thoracic surface) from the cartilage of the first rib, and sometimes from the head of the clavicle. It forms a flat, narrow band of muscular fibres, which ascends, in contact with its fellow, or corresponding muscle, to be in- serted into the lower border of the body of the os hyoides. It lies on the succeeding muscle, which it partly conceals; one border being in contact with the corresponding muscle, the other with the superior part of the omo-hyoideus. 452. The sterno-thywidens, broader and shorter than the preceding, behind which it lies, arises from the thoracic surface of the first bone of the sternum, lower down than the sterno-hyoideus, from which it ascends, diverging a little from the corresponding muscle, to be inserted into the oblique line, on the side of the ala of the thyroid carti- lage. The greater part of its anterior surface is concealed by the sternum and the preceding muscle, as well as bv the 2 v 2