THE FASCIA LATA. .305 being stretched across the popliteal space, it is prolonged over the gastrocnemius muscle, and so becomes blended with the fascia of the leg. 321. When traced upwards, over the thigh, it is found not only to encase it, but also to send processes inwards be- tween the muscles. The most dense and remarkable of these is one which passes in between the vastus externus and the short head of the biceps, and is attached to the linea aspera in its whole length as far as the insertion of the gluteus maxi- mus. Along the internal side of the thigh it invests the muscles, and merely gives attachment to some thin cellular lamellae, which lie between them; but along the course of the sartorius, particularly in the lower two-thirds of its ex- tent, an investment or sheath is formed, which serves to maintain it in its place, notwithstanding the obliquity of its direction. Its points of attachment at the superior part of the limb are so numerous, that it becomes necessary to ex- amine each of them in detail, more especially as one portion of the membrane bears an important relation to the parts connected with hernia. Thus externally, after having been intimately connected with the insertion of the gluteus maximus, it is prolonged backwards and upwards on the cutaneous surface of that muscle, and though very thin and weak, it still with care may be traced as far as to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, and also to the crista of the ileum, to which it is firmly attached, after having passed over the upper part of the gluteus medius. The fascia in the latter situation becomes very dense and firm, and is intimately connected with the fibres of that muscle. Still more exter- nally it divides into two lamella, which embrace the inferior termination of the tensor vaginae femoris, to which it in this manner gives insertion. These two lamellae become united into one, along the posterior border of the muscle, which, by being prolonged over the gluteus medius (to whose fibres it gives attachment by its inner surface) passes to be inserted into the crista of the ileum and its spinous process.