ABDOMINAL MUSCLES — THEIR DISSECTION. 319 drawn from the costal cartilages to the spine of the ileum, they would exert no influence on the hypogastric region, inasmuch as they cease at its upper boundary; and in the next place, if projected backwards, they would leave the lateral parts of the umbilical region far too small. These reasons, it is hoped, will sufficiently warrant a departure from usage and precedent. Dissection of the abdominal muscles.—When commencing the dissection of the abdominal muscles, an incision may be made through the skin from the ensiform cartilage to the umbilicus, and another from thence to the most depending part of the margin of the thorax. The angular flap of skin, bounded by these lines, may be easily reflected by commencing at its point, and taking the tendinous fibres of the external oblique muscle as a guide, each stroke of the scalpel being directed obliquely upwards and outwards. The flap should be reflected until its base, or attached border, is brought on a line with the ensiform cartilage, which is necessary, in order to expose the digitated processes of the muscle, and their intermixture with those of the serratus magnus. An in- cision may, in the next place, be carried horizontally inwards from the anterior superior spinous process of the ileum to the linea alba, and there met by another drawn down from the umbi- licus. The enclosed flat part of skin should be reflected back to the posterior part of the lumbar region. If it be required to ex- hibit the muscle in its entire extent, the portion of integument still remaining on the lower part of the abdomen may be divided by an incision drawn from the pubis upwards, and the flap re- flected down over Poupart’s ligament. For the present, however, we shall leave untouched the integument, muscle, &c. in the iliac region, as they will require to be examined attentively when treat- ing of the dissection of the parts connected with hernia. The external oblique muscle may be detached and reflected so as to bring into view the one subjacent to it, by cutting through its muscular fibres, midway between its digitations and the margin of the ribs. Its posterior, or free border, will be found extending from the last rib to the crista of the ileum, and can be readily dis- tinguished from the internal oblique muscle by the different