THE KIDNEYS THEIR STRUCTURE. 517 but a partial covering, being derived from the peritonaeum, the internal is a mucous lining, continuous with that in the ducts. In the neck of the sack the mucous membrane pro- jects inwards, so as to form folds, disposed spirally, and calculated not only to favour the ascent of the bile into its reservoir, but also to graduate its flow as it descends. If the pipe of a syringe be inserted into the hepatic duct, the duodenum being at the same time laid open, and the fundus of the gall-bladder cut off, water forced along it will be found to ascend into the latter almost as soon as it appears in the intestine. This would indicate a resistance to its course at the mouth of the common duct, though nothing of the kind can be demonstrated in the human subject. The effect of the spiral lamella in the gall-bladder can be readily perceived by the manner in which the fluid ascends contrary to its gravity. The urinary Organs. 572. The kidneys {reties) are the organs which secrete urine. They are placed deeply at the posterior part of the abdomen on either side of the vertebral column, on a level with the two last dorsal and two first lumbar vertebrae. The right is however a little lower down than the left. Each kidney is compressed, and ovoid in its form, presenting two surfaces and two borders. The anterior surface, con- vex, lies behind the peritonaeum, which separates it on the right side from the duodenum and ascending colon, and on the left, from its descending portion; the posterior is em- bedded in cellular tissue, and supported partly on the broad part of the diaphragm, partly on the quadratus lum- borum; the external border is convex in its general out- line, the internal concave, and excavated at the middle, where it presents a fissure {hilus) for the transmission of the vessels. The superior extremity is thick and rounded, being inclined inwards, whilst the inferior is flat, and di- verges from the spine. The kidney is invested by a thin,