ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 676 of a mushroom. The intervals between the processes are filled by a pigment similar to the pigmentum nigrum in every particu- lar, which leaves on the surface of the lens and vitreous humour a number of dark, striated lines, corresponding not with the pro- cesses, but the intervals between them. 715. The retina (tunica nervea) is placed between the cho- roid membrane and vitreous humour, with which it is merely in apposition. It extends from the bottom of the eye, where it is continuous with that of the optic nerve, forwards as far as the com- mencement of the ciliary processes, wdiere it appears to terminate by a defined and rather prominent line. Its structure is soft and pulpy ; in the living subject it is transparent, and so continues for some hours after death, but then becomes of a pale white colour. When the ophthalmic artery has been minutely injected, the me'mbrane can be shewn to consist of two lamellae, of which the internal is vascular, and presents several small vessels, which arise from the centralis retina; the external is medullary. If the eye be macerated for some days in water, the medullary part of the retina can be washed away, leaving the vascular in its natural posi- tion. About two lines outside the entrance of the optic nerve may be observed in the retina a small hole and a yellow spot, first described by Soemmerring, and named by him, the one, foramen centrale, the other limbus luteus. The yellow spot appears to coincide with the axis of vision: the appearance which has been called a foramen is owing to a transparent point in the retina, rather than to a perforation of its substance. “ Exclusively of the two layers here noticed, the retina is found to be covered on its external surface by a delicate transparent membrane, united to it by cellular substance and vessels. If the sclerotica be removed, and the choroid membrane carefully torn and everted, small portions of the structure here alluded to can be detached, or a globule of air, or even of quicksilver, may be insi- nuated beneath it, by which means it is raised, and can be seen distinctly if held towards the light*.” This is now known as Jacob's membrane. It cannot be said to be a part of the retina, * An Account of a Membrane now first described, by Arthur Jacob, M.D.— Phil. Tran;?. 1819.