530 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. side, and both united along the median line so as to form a partition between them (septum scroti). This structure is vascular, and striated so as to resemble in some degree muscular fibre. It is confessedly contractile, and serves the purpose of drawing up and sustaining the testes, at the same time that it corrugates the skin; but when macerated, or tried by the usual tests, no trace of fibrine can be disco- vered in it. When examined with attention it will be found that its texture gradually becomes assimilated to the superficial facia which descends from the abdomen round the cord, and again, below the scrotum, it in the same way passes into the superficial fascia of that region. We may now call to our aid a few facts, which will assist in throwing some light, if they do not actually determine a litigated question. That lamella which lies between the skin and abdominal muscles in the human subject is merely cellular membrane; in the larger quadrupeds a layer of elastic tissue (tissue jaune) is substituted, in order to support the weight of the viscera. In the human subject such a support is not wanted for the abdomen, but the pendulous testes require something of the kind. When emaciation occurs, indicating a general diminution in the sub-cutaneous cel- lular deposit, the testes hang lower than they had previously done, owing to the absorption of the elastic tissue of the dartos, and its consequent conversion into mere cellular membrane: but when the “ embonpoint” is restored, the testes rise to their usual level, by the restoration of the sustaining agent. In this view of the subject the dartos constitutes a transition structure between cellular membrane and elastic tissue. 590. 3. Beneath the dartos, the fascia of the cord and cremaster form an investment which lies on the forepart of the testes. 4. The tunica vaginalis, or serous covering derived from the peritonaeum, is the next in order. It forms a shut sack inverted on itself in such a way as that