292 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. beneath the tuber ischii, and divides into filaments, some of which are distributed to the gracilis, whilst others pierce the fascia, and become sub-cutaneous, ramifying in the in- tegument that covers the upper and inner part of the thigh, and also of the perinaeum. c. From the posterior surface of the nerve, when it is on a level with the lower border of the gluteus, a branch passes backwards through the fascia, and becomes sub-cutaneous. It continues to descend, dis- tributing filaments to the skin, as far as the popliteal space, where it finally ceases. Now, the branch b may be named the posterior and superior cutaneous branch, and that marked c, the posterior and middle cutaneous, to distin- guish them from another situated more externally, and de- rived from the great sciatic nerve; for these three branches lie on the fascia, and supply the integument on the poste- rior part of the thigh. The continuation of the nerve, as it descends, inclines inwards, covered by the fascia, and resting on the flexor muscles, to which it distributes branches, in its course to- wards the inner side of the popliteal space, where it finally ceases. 312. The great sciatic nerve (nervus ischiadicus, Soemm.; grand femoro-poplite, Chauss.) is the largest nerve in the body. From its size and direction it may be considered as the continuation or prolongation of the plexus, it being im- possible to determine where the one ceases, or the other begins. The fasciculi which enter into its composition are derived from the anterior branches of the four first sacral nerves, and of the fifth lumbar, as well as half the fourth. Thus formed, the nerve emerges from the pelvis, beneath the lower border of the pyriformis muscle, lying in the interval between the trochanter major and tuber ischii, whence it proceeds almost vertically downwards to the pop- liteal space. In the upper part of this course it rests against the external rotator muscles, in the rest it is supported by the adductor magnus, and is covered for a short way by