GG8 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. backwards, and join the pulmonary plexus, others turn forwards, to gain the forepart of the aorta; but the descending set, by far the most numerous, pass to the heart itself, where they are dis- posed in two sets, which take the course of the coronary arteries, and are thence termed the coronary plexus. The branches of the rigid, or anterior coronary plexus, pass forwards between the aorta and pulmonary artery, and ramify on the right ventricle and auricle, the greater number of them being directed towards the right border of the heart, where they communicate with the branches of the posterior plexus. The posterior coronary plexus w ill be found to ramify on the inferior and posterior surface of the left ventricle and auricle. These nerves were at one time supposed to be confined to the arteries which they accompany ; but the researches of Scarpa have clearly shewn that they pass away from the vessels in many places, and enter the muscular structure of the heart. The cardiac plexus receives at its upper extremity the cardiac nerves of each side, and some branches from the vagus and its recurrent. The superior cardiac nerve (superficialis cordis) commences by three or four filaments from the first cervical ganglion, and usually receives one or two from the trunk of the sympathetic nerve. It descends behind the carotid artery, and at the lower part of the neck divides into three branches, of which a very small one in- clines inwards, and contributes to form a plexus round the inferior thyroid artery : some join the middle, or great cardiac nerve, whilst the remainder form with the recurrent nerve a plexus, from which branches descend to the great cardiac plexus. At the left side the nerve continues undivided until it arrives at the aortic arch, where it divides into delicate branches, the gi'eater number of which pass behind the aorta to the cardiac plexus, whilst the remainder run in front of it to join the recurrent and anterior cardiac nerves. It should be observed, that in some instances the right nerve also reaches the thorax previously to its division. The middle cardiac nerve (cardicicits magnus) on the right side is the largest of the set; on the left it is sometimes wanting. It descends from the middle cervical ganglion, or from the trunk of the sympathetic, should the former be wanting, and after passing in front of the