ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 542 the pelvis into two compartments, of which the anterior contains the bladder, and the posterior the rectum. The upper border of each of these presents two lesser folds ; the anterior, or larger one, contains the Fallopian tube, whilst the posterior lodges the ova- rium. C. The superior, or epigastric division, is much more com- plex in its arrangement than the others, and more difficult to be described without the aid of diagrams, or ocular demonstra- tion. Like the lower division, its distribution along the middle line differs from that at the sides, and moreover, each lateral portion presents certain peculiarities. The extent to which the part A has been examined, being noted or marked by drawing a line across the root of the mesentery at the spine, we may com- mence to trace the membrane upwards from this point, the con- tinuity being there obvious. We shall then find that it passes for- wards to the transverse colon, becoming adherent to its under surface, but is soon reflected downwards to the bottom of the ab- domen, forming the posterior layer of the great omentum, and by folding back, again answers to the anterior layer of the same, even to its line of attachment, along the great curvature of the stomach. On reaching this viscus, the membrane covers its anterior surface as far as the lesser curvature, where it is reflected upwards to the liver, and guided by the vessels to its transverse fissure. We trace it thence to its upper margin, the umbilical ligament interposing, and as the latter passes obliquely down to the umbilicus, so does the membrane, thus becoming continuous with the part (A). By being thus checked in its ascent by the ligament, it folds round it, and then extends upwards in the interval, between the diaphragm and liver, becoming attached to both along the middle line, and is thence reflected outwards in continuity with the part that lines their contiguous surfaces. The fold thus formed is called the falx or falciform process. Having in this way shewn a continuity of surface along the middle line, it will be found convenient to take a different mode of proceeding, in order to shew the way in which the liver is invested, and also the formation of the greater and lesser epi- ploons, as well as of the aperture (foramen of Winslow) which leads down into the cavity of the former. With this view we commence at the umbilicus; and having marked off a narrow