ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. 185 membranous band, composed of irregular fibres, extended obliquely from the border of the articulating surface of the tibia, to the margin of the pulley-like surface of the astra- galus. This is usually called the tibio-tarsal ligament; it is covered by the tendons of the extensor muscles. 186. The synovial membrane, after having invested the articulating surface of the astragalus, is reflected upwards at each side upon the lateral ligaments, and at the anterior and posterior part of the joint, upon the corresponding fibrous structures, so as to reach the articulating surfaces of the tibia and fibula, by several points at once. These it lines in their entire extent, and also sends upwards between the bones, a process which reaches as far as the inferior in- terosseous ligament, so that the inferior articulation between these bones, may be said to form part of the ankle joint, as both are lined by the same synovial membrane. The Articulations of the Foot. 187. The foot is constructed on the principle of an arch, being concave inferiorly, where it rests on the ground, and convex superiorly, where it receives the weight of the body, transmitted to it by the bones of the leg. The posterior extremity, or heel, is narrow, thick, and rounded ; the an- terior flat, thin, and expanded, being composed of the digi- tal phalanges. The internal border, longer than the exter- nal, thick and nearly straight, is composed of the inner border of the calcaneum, the scaphoid, first cuneiform, and first metatarsal and digital bones of the great toe; the ex- ternal, shorter and thinner, consists of the calcaneum, the cuboid, the fifth metatarsal and corresponding digital bones. The foot being divided into the tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges, its different parts are respectively bound toge- ther by ligaments, and all are united so as to form a whole. The seven bones of which the tarsus consists, may be di- vided into two sets, the os calcis and astragalus forming