ELEMENTS OP ANATOMY. 404 tion, the artery lies deeply in the fissure, between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, considerably diminished in size, by having given off several branches, and descends to the elbow, where it anastomoses with the recurrent radial branch. The only off-set from the profunda artery that requires a special notice, is one that descends perpendicularly from it, when lying behind the middle of the humerus, and proceeds between the triceps and the bone to the back part of the elbow joint, where it anastomoses with the interosseous recurrent branch. The inferior profunda branch is smaller than the preceding, and arises from the brachial artery, about the middle of the arm. Its direction is downwards and inwards, from the point just indicated, to the back part of the inner condyle of the humerus, to gain which, it, in the first place, must pierce the inter-muscular ligament or septum, and then lie on the inner surface of the triceps (its third head,) to which it gives branches. In this course the artery lies parallel, and on the same plane, with the ulnar nerve, and enters the interval, between the olecranon and inner condyle, where it terminates by anastomosing with the posterior recurrent branch, from the ulnar artery. On a level with the preceding, or a little higher, a small branch arises, (arteria nuiritia humeri) which runs through the fibres of the coraco-brachialis, and enters the oblique canal in the humerus, to be ultimately distributed to the medul- lary membrane. The ramus anastomolicus arises from the brachial artery, about two inches above the bend of the arm, and is much smaller than the preceding. Resting on the brachialis anticus, this branch de- scends towards the inner condyle, and divides into two sets of ramifications. Of these, one lies in front of the articulation, and after supplying the brachialis anticus and pronator teres muscles, anastomoses with the anterior ulnar recurrent, whilst the other passes backwards, comes into relation with the ulnar nerve, and communicates with the posterior ulnar recurrent and inferior pro- funda branches. It must be obvious, that the terms applied to the branches of the brachial artery are rather ill chosen. The inferior profunda lies beneath the fascia, and is superficial, rather than deep-seated ; and the property of anastomosis is common to all, as well as the