THE FACIAL ANGLE. 141 large cranium and a small face indicate a large brain with a re- stricted development of the sense of smell and taste ; but a small cranium and a large face mark an opposite conformation. The character and nature of animals is determined by the degree of energy with which their different functions are performed ; they are guided and impelled by some leading propensity or disposition ; and as the cranium and face bear to the brain and organs of sense the relation of containing and contained parts, the study of their relative proportions is one of great interest to the naturalist, in- asmuch as they serve as indices of the faculties, instincts, and ca- pabilities of different individuals, as well as of classes. Several methods have been suggested for determining the pro- portion of the cranium to the face; the simplest is that of Cam- per. If a line be drawn upwards from the side of the chin, over the most prominent part of the forehead, it will form an angle with a horizontal line drawn backwards over the external audi- tory foramen from the margin of the anterior nares ; the size of the angle will indicate the degree of development of the cranium and brain, as compared with that of the face and organs of sense. In the crocodile these lines are co-incident, there is therefore no appreciable angle. In the Horse it measures* 23° Ram 30 Dog 35 Ouran-outang 56 to 60 European adult 85 Thus we find man at the top of the scale of animated beings, distinguished from all the rest as well by his external conforma- tion and deportment, as by his internal organization. When the mind has passed in review the many links of the chain which con- nects the lowest with the highest—the mere animated dot, with man, the lord of the creation, it cannot fail to be struck with asto- nishment at the immense chasm which separates them. Yet when each link of the chain is compared with that which precedes and follows it, the transition from the one to the other is found to be so gradual, as to be almost imperceptible. So easy are the steps * Cuvier Lemons d’Anatomie Compar/e, tom. ii. p 8.