136 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The roof is arched, and is formed in front by the inner surface of the nasal bones, behind, by the body of the sphenoid, and in the middle, by the horizontal or cribriform lamella of the ethmoid bone. The floor smooth, concave from side to side, and formed by the palate plates of the maxillary and palate bones, extends backwards, and a little downwards, from the nares to the pharynx. Towards the anterior opening may be observed the superior orifice of the anterior palatine canal. The internal wall, or septum narium, which extends from the roof to the floor of the cavity, is flat, nearly vertical, (the deviation, if any, being usually to the left side) and composed of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, the vomer, and the nasal cartilage. The external wall narrowed superiorly, extended inferiorly, is formed by the eth- moid, superior maxillary, os unguis, inferior spongy, and palate bones. The posterior and inferior parts of this surface are marked by a number of inequalities, whilst the superior and anterior are comparatively even. In the latter situation may be observed, first, the smooth surface just mentioned ; and, secondly, passing downwards and backwards, three, and frequently four, arched and convoluted bones (spongy bones,) beneath which are grooves (meatus) leading from before backwards. Beneath the superior spongy bone is the superior meatus, into which may be observed, opening anteriorly, a foramen from the posterior ethmoidal cells* and, posteriorly, the spheno-palatine foramen. Under the second is the middle meatus, which communicates with the anterior eth- moidal cells ; one of these may be observed to curve forwards and upwards, and is continuous with the frontal sinus; more poste- riorly is situated the opening of the maxillary sinus. The inferior meatus, situated below the inferior spongy bone, between it and the floor of the nasal cavity, is necessarily longer than the others; it presents anteriorly the orifice of the nasal canal. The Frontal Sinuses. I he frontal sinuses correspond with the superciliary eminences ol the frontal bone. Of considerable size in the adult, but varying in different individuals, they are not at all developed in the foetus. They are divided into two, sometimes three compartments. The sphenoidal sinuses, usually two, sometimes three in number placed within the body of the sphenoid bone; these also cannot be