230 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. part of the leg, they are found to be separated into a su- perficial and deep set, by a layer of fascia interposed be- tween them, and binding down the latter. 253. The abductor pol/icis (calcaneo-sous-phalangien du pouce, Chauss.) is placed along the inner side of the sole of the foot. It arises from the inner border of the protu- berance of the calcaneum, from the internal annular liga- ment, and from the septum between it and the flexor brevis digitorum. The fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which, after uniting with the external head of the flexor brevis pollicis, is inserted into the inner border of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Direction—parallel with the inner border of the foot: structure—fleshy and tendinous: relations—its plantar surface is covered by the skin and fascia, the superior surface is in contact with the tendi- nous insertion of the tibialis posticus, with the flexor brevis pollicis with which it is identified, and with the internal plantar vessels. 254. The flexor brevis digitorum (flexor perforatus ; calcaneo-sous-phalanginien commun, Chauss.) is placed in the middle of the sole of the foot, in intimate contact with the plantar fascia. It arises from the plantar surface of the calcaneum, immediately before its internal or greater tuberosity, from the plantar fascia, and the intermuscular septa on each side. It soon terminates in four thin tendons corresponding with the four lesser toes; and opposite the extremity of the first phalanx, each tendon divides into two fasciculi, so as to leave a fissure for the transmission of the tendon of the flexor longus, after which the fibres unite again into a broad lamella, which is inserted into the under surface of the second phalanx. Direction—directly forwards : structure—tendinous and fleshy behind, fleshy in the middle, tendinous in front: relations—the lower surface is in contact with the plantar fascia, the upper with the flexor accessorius, with the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, the lumbricales, and the plantar vessels.