225 FLEXOR LONGUS DIGITORUM PEDIS. in front, with the knee joint and tibialis posticus muscle. The tendon by which it is connected to the femur, adheres to the external semi-lunar cartilage, (which sometimes is grooved for it) and is invested by the synovial membrane of the knee joint. Combined Actions.—The power of these muscles, as they are exerted successively in standing, walking, running, &c. is very considerable. In standing, the gastrocnemius and soleus take their fixed point at the os calcis, and by drawing on the bones of the leg, retain them perpendicularly on the foot, thus preventing them from obeying the influence of the weight of the body, which constantly tends to bend them forwards. If this effort be carried as far as it will admit of, the gastrocnemius and popliteus will bend the femur on the tibia, and if at the same time the semi-ten- dinosus, semi-membranosus, and biceps, be made to act on the ischium, so as to draw it downwards and backwards, the com- mencement of that series of muscular actions is made, by which the body is retroverted, and carried towards the ground, as we see when a tumbler or mountebank makes an inverted arch of his body, the head and heels being brought to the same plane. In walking these muscles take their fixed point above, and by drawing on the os calcis lift it from the ground, so that the foot is made to represent an inclined plane. By this action an impulse is com- municated to the body, and a direct tendency is given to progres- sion. When the body is thus supported on the elevated foot, the opposite limb can be carried forward to its destination unimpeded by the inequalities of the surface over which it has to pass. It may be observed, that an individual who is obliged to use a wooden leg, usually selects it a little longer than the limb for which it is substituted. This choice is determined not merely with a view to lessen the jar or concussion, caused by resting the body on an unyielding, inelastic support; it is the result of experience, which teaches that the natural limb cannot be carried with facility before the artificial one unless the latter is a little longer, and so serves as a substitute for that power of elevating the heel, which under such circumstances is wanting. 249. The flexor longus digitorumpedis (flexor perforans: