ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 28 to perpetual mutation; and over this ceaseless cycle of change presides that power which altogether suspends the ordinary play of affinities in the first moments of foetal existence, modifies and controls them, during the succeed- ing stages of life, and allows them to come into action only when it is withdrawn at death. 19. As these changes necessarily imply that the fluid parts are constantly being converted into solid structures, to maintain their growth and nutrition; and again, that the particles which had for some time formed part of the so- lids, are taken up by the absorbent vessels, and carried back into the current of the circulation, to make way for the new matter about to be deposited in their stead, it follows that the ultimate constituents of the solids and fluids are identical, else this ceaseless conversion of the one into the other, could not take place; the only difference between them being in their mode of composition or aggre- gation. Thus the following simple substances are found to exist (not separately, but variously combined), in animal compounds, viz. azote, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, which are the chief ingredients. To these are added some others, but in small proportions, such as phosphorus, sulphur, iron, soda, potass, and lime. Some salts, as the phosphate of lime, are found in considerable quantity, whilst others, such as the muriates of soda and potass, are sparingly dif- fused through a few only of the animal fluids. The soft parts are made up of azote, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, the hard parts of the lime and phosphorus. The proxi- mate animal compounds formed from these, are not very numerous; the following enumeration includes all that are sufficiently well characterized, and are of general occur- rence, gelatine, albumen, fibrine, mucus, pichromel, urea, osmazome, resin, sugar, oils, acids. The identity of the ultimate constituents of these substances will at once appear from the following tabular view, which it is unnecessary to extend beyond the three first.