425 THE FASCIA OF THE ARM. extensors on the outer border of the fore-arm, and in the same situation its deep-seated branch. This branch (ramus profundus vel muscularis) is larger than the continuation of the nerve. It inclines outwards as it descends, and after having passed beneath the supinator longus and the two radial extensors, pierces the substance of the supinator brevis. On arriving at the lower border of that muscle, the nerve gives off several branches, some being distributed to the long extensors of the fingers, others to those of the thumb. Finally, one rather remarkable by its size and re- gularity, lies in the interval between the radius and ulna, resting on the interosseous ligament, and thence called ramus interosseus posticus, it extends as far as the carpus, and ra- mifies on its posterior aspect. 445. The superior extremity, in addition to the several nerves thus derived from the brachial plexus, receives two or three small branches, which come from the second and third intercostal nerves. These pierce the external intercostal muscles, and also the serratus magnus, and then proceed outwards and backwards, to the lower border of the axilla, where they sometimes receive a filament from the internal cutaneous nerve. They then change their direction, run- ning directly down beneath the integument covering the triceps muscle, to which they are distributed. These, from their origin and course, are called the intercosto- liumeral nerves. 446. The fascia of the arm. The upper exti’emity is in- vested by a fascia, or membrane, analogous in its general formation to that of the lower, though by no means so dense or firm. If examined towards the bend of the elbow, it will be found to form a complete sheath for the arm, investing it all round. In this situation the fascia is continuous, with a similar investment of the fore-arm, which may thus be said to be prolonged downwards from it. The fascia is also connected intimately with the condyles of the hume- rus, and also with the ridges which extend upwards from