241 ILIAC ARTERY—OPERATIONS. Dissecticm and operations.—As the iliac artery and its branches are usually studied immediately after the abdominal viscera have been examined, very little dissection is inquired to expose them in their entire extent. If the lower part of the parietes of the ab- domen be turned down on the thigh, after the viscera have been re- moved, nothing more is necessary than to gently elevate the peri- tonaeum from the iliac fossa, and draw it inwards towards the pelvis. The trunk of the vessel will then be observed resting on a smooth dense membrane (fascia iliaca) which is placed behind it, separating it from the psoas muscle ; it is however bound down to the fascia by the sub-serous cellular tissue, which adheres firmly to it on each side of the vessel. The epigastric artery, if injected, may also be exposed in the lower and more important part of its course in the same way, namely, by removing the peritonaeum from the fascia transversalis, which at once shews its relation to the cord and internal ring; to trace it higher up, the sheath of the rectus must be opened. If the abdomen be not opened, it will be necessary to cut through the three layers of abdominal muscles, in order to reach the epigastric artery. The direction of the vessel may be indicated by drawing a line from a little to the pubic side of the middle point, between the superior spine of the ileum, and the symphysis pubis upwards, to the side of the ensiform carti- lage. In order to expose the external iliac artery in the living subject, it becomes necessary to divide the muscular parietes of the abdo- men without injuring the peritonaeum, after which this membrane must be pushed upwards from the iliac fossa. For this purpose, in conformity with general usage, (which prescribes, that when cut- ting down on an artery, the incision should coincide with the di- rection of the vessel) Mr. Abernethy makes an incision about four inches long over the course of the artery. As the aorta di- vides on the fourth lumbar vertebra, and as the external iliac ar- tery terminates midway between the anterior spine of the ileum and the pubic symphysis, it would at first sight appear, that a line drawn from the umbilicus to the latter point, would sufficiently in- dicate the course of the vessel, which in this, as in all other opera- tions, it is a matter of great consequence to determine accurately. But this line would fall to the inner side of the vessel, more parti- cularly at the right side, in consequence of the transverse direc- R