042 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. derived from the under surface of the corpus striatum. The internal root, shorter and broader than the preceding, arises at the inner termination of the fissure of Sylvius, from the substantia perforata. By turning down the nerve from the groove in which it is lodged, we see the third or cineritious origin, which comes from a papilla at the posterior extremity of the sulcus, or groove, just re- ferred to. The first and second roots converge to the third, and the nerve thus formed passes forwards by the side of the crista galli, where it expands into an elongated bulb (bulbus olfactorius.) From the under surface of this structure numerous filaments descend through the cribri- form lamella, each of which is invested by a tubular pro- longation of the dura mater, and also by one from the arachnoid, which latter, after descending a little way, re- ascends, and becomes continuous with the serous lining of the dura mater. The filaments of the olfactory nerve are arranged into three sets—the internal set are lodged for a while in grooves upon the surface of the septum narium, but soon ramify in the pituitary membrane—the external set descend upon the two superior turbinated bones, but the middle ones are short, and confined to the roof of the nares. 678. The second pair {optic, nervus opticus, par secun- dum) presents several striking peculiarities. They are the largest of the cerebral nerves, the fifth probably excepted ; they are united by a commissure, but give off no branches, and their length within the skull is greater than that ex- terior to it. Each optic nerve arises not from the optic thalamus, but from the corpus geniculatum externum, and from a white fasciculus sent downwards from the nates. The nerve, at first soft and flat, rests on the crus cerebri, and passes forwards, converging to its fellow of the op- posite side, with which it unites before the pituitary fossa, and between the anterior clinoid processes. From the commissure each of the nerves proceeds forwards and