18 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. other textures, whilst these central terminations are blended, with the cerebro-spinal mass. The examination of the nerves follows naturally that of the parts to which they communicate the powers of sensation and motion, and of whose nutritive functions they may be said to be the regu- lators ; and this would complete the consideration of the deep-seated parts, if the materials of which the body is composed were allowed to remain fixed and unchanged in the situations from which they are at first deposited. But this is not the case. The component particles of all the struc- tures undergo a slow, but constant change ; after a tempo- rary sojourn some parts are taken up and carried back again into the circulating mass, to make way for others to be deposited in their place. A peculiar set of vessels, the absorbents, effect these purposes, and are thus made subsi- diary to the process of nutrition and growth. Finally, the integuments which enclose these different parts demand a greater ofless degree of attention under different circum- stances. When the anatomical description of a particular part of the body is thus completed, when the structures which enter into its composition are successively examined in de- tail, maintaining at the same time a strict regard to their mutual relations and bearings—when, in a word, the student has seen the part built up as it were before him, by a pro- cess resembling, as nearly as may be, a synthesis, he is natu- rally prompted to inquire what are the steps by which it may again be resolved into its elements, in order that he may study it for himself, or in other words, how should he con- duct its analysis or dissection ? No part of the process should be treated as a matter of indifference. Every one may be turned to account if it be conducted with method. Even the first incision made through the skin may be so directed as to impress on the mind some useful practi- cal facts. Recurring again to the instance already selected, viz. the lower extremity, and which has been kept con- stantly in view, whilst making the preceding remarks, and