283 NERVES—LUMBAR PLEXUS. or interlacement, which the anterior branches of the lumbar and sacral nerves form, after they have passed out of the spinal canal. The lumbar nerves, five in number, arise by double roots from the medulla spinalis. The trunks, formed by the union of each pair of roots, pass through the inter- vertebral foramina, the first being transmitted through that between the first lumbar vertebra and the second, the fifth through that between the last and the sacrum. These trunks are very short, being not more than a few lines in length, as they immediately divide into two branches, called from their direction anterior and posterior. 300. 1. The posterior branches of the lumbar nerves pass backwards, immediately after their division, between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and are distributed to the deep-seated extensor muscles, situated along the spine, some of their branches extending as far as the skin. The course and destination of these nerves being similar in every respect, it is not necessary to describe them separately, more especially as anatomists have not designated them by particular names, doubtless from the circumstance of their not being connected with any points of practical import- ance. It may be just observed, that they diminish gradually in size from the first to the last. 301. 2. The anterior branches of the lumbar nerves in- cline outwards as they descend, and become mutually con- nected by communicating filaments, sent from one to the other. In this way a plexus, or interlacement, is formed, reaching from the second to the fourth lumbar vertebra, resting on the junction of the transverse processes with their bodies, and covered by the psoas muscle. In addition to this mutual communication, each nerve receives one or two small filaments from the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic nerve. The plexus is moreover brought into relation with the dorsal nerves by a branch sent up from the first lumbar to the last dorsal, and also with the sacral nerves, by one sent down from the fifth. As the latter