CEREBRAL NERVES—SECOND PAIR. ()4>i outwards through the foramen opticum, where it is sur- rounded by the recti muscles, and having reached the posterior surface of the globe of the eye, pierces the sclerotic coat, after which it passes through the choroid, and finally becomes continuous with the retina. A considerable difference of opinion exists concerning the dis- position of the fibrillae of the optic nerve at their commissure. Some of the earlier anatomists supposed that they were merely applied one to the other without any actual admixture of then- substance ; this opinion has now no supporters. Several physio- logists are of opinion that a decussation between the nerves of opposite sides takes place, the fibres of that on the right side passing to the left, and vice versa. Others, on the contrary, con- tend that the decussation, or crossing, exists only to a certain ex- tent, being confined to the fibres on the inner side of each nerve, the rest passing on uninterruptedly. The anatomical examination of the fibrillae, after the nerves have been macerated in dilute nitric acid, seems to indicate that those on the external border of each of them proceed forwards without admixture, but that several pass obliquely inwards through the commissure, and afterwards form part of the fibres which proceed to the eye of the opposite side: this at least is the result of Caldani’s observations. Little account can be made of conclusions deduced from experi- ments on animals ; the quantity of injury inflicted by opening the skull, in order to divide the nerves, or their commissure, is suffi- cient to confound all the sensations of the animal, and render any inferences nugatory that may be drawn from them. Observations on the morbid conditions of the nerves have been adduced in support of both opinions : thus, in a case in which the right eye had been destroyed, the optic nerve was found altered and wasted back to commissure on that side, and thence to the brain at the opposite side; thus supporting the theory of decussation. Some cases have also occurred in which blindness of one eye was traced to a morbid alteration of the nerve of the opposite side, at its origin from the brain. Some other instances, however, would go to prove that the decussation is only partial. In one instance in which the eye had been destroyed, and its nerve altered in 2 T 2