THE ERAIN—ITS VENTRICLES. 617 upper surface gives attachment to part of the septum luci- dum, and posteriorly becomes united with the corpus cal- losum* the inferior one overlays the third ventricle and the thalami nervorum opticorum, but is separated from them by the velum interpositum. Some oblique lines are traced on this surface, on which account it has been termed lyra, or corpus psallo'ides. The anterior extremity of the fornix is narrow, and divides into two fasciculi (pillars of the fornix), which curve downwards at the forepart of the third ventricle, immediately behind the anterior commis- sure, and terminate at the base of the brain by investing the corpora albicantia. The base of the fornix gives off at each angle a thin flat process, which passes into the de- scending cornu, and assumes the name of corpus fimbria- turn. The anterior cornu of each ventricle inclines out- wards, diverging from its fellow of the opposite side; the corpus striatum projects a little into its floor: the remain- der of it resembles a groove in the cerebral substance. The posterior cornu, called the digital cavity, converges towards that of the opposite side, and presents in its floor the hippocampus minor. This is a slight elevation, com- posed of a lamella of white matter inclosing some cineri- tious substance; it gradually tapers to a point, and reaches to within an inch of the posterior extremity of the hemi- sphere. The inferior or descending cornu passes at first backwards and outwards from the body of the ventricle, but after descending a little, it changes its direction alto- gether, and proceeds forwards and inwards, to terminate at the base of the brain, within a few lines of the fissure of Sylvius. This is the largest of the cornua: its convexity looks outwards and backwards, its concavity in the oppo- site direction : the under surface of the thalamus forms its roof, and the plexus choroi'des rests loosely on its floor, concealing the hippocampus major and corpus fimbriatum. 661. The hippocampus major (cornu ammonis) re- sembles, in shape, a cerebral convolution ; it is curved so