382 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 384. The fleshy mass of the fore-arm consists, 1, of the muscles which move the radius and ulna on one another; 2, of those that act on the carpus ; 3, of those that move the fingers. The motions of pronation and supination are ef- fected by two pronators (teres and quadratus) and by the two supinators (longus and brevis). The carpus is acted on by five muscles, it is extended by the extensor carpi ra- dialis (longior and brevior) and extensor ulnaris, and flexed by the flexor carpi ulnaris and radialis. The fingers are bent by the flexor sublimis, and profundus, and flexor pol- licis; they are extended by the extensor communis, the two extensors of the thumb, the extensores indices et minimi digiti. In studying the actions of these muscles, they may be reviewed as they are here placed according to a physio- logical arrangement; but their dissection had better be con- ducted according to their anatomical order. Taken in this way they may be divided into the following groups; 1, those placed on the anterior and inner part of the arm, which are divisible into two sets, one being superficial, the other deep-seated; 2, those that lie along the radial border of the fore-arm; 3, those situated on its posterior aspect. The superficial muscles of the anterior and inner part of the fore-arm are, the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and flexor di- gitorum sublimis. These are all intimately united at their origin from the inner condyle, to which they are attached by a common tendon that gives a fasciculus of fibres to each, and also sends septa between them. 386. The pronator radii teres is extended obliquely across the front of the arm at its upper third. It arises by two distinct heads; one large and superficial, is derived from the common tendon, from the fascia of the fore-arm, and the septum between this muscle and the flexor carpi radialis. The other head is a thin fasciculus that lies deeply, coming from the margin of the coronoid process, and joins the other at an acute angle, being previously se-