ELEMENTS OP ANATOMY. 608 terior, the other on the posterior aspect. The white sub- stance which encircles the two lateral cords of the me- dulla, dips into the sulci, but it is somewhat remarkable that, in the anterior one, the fibres are observed to pass from side to side, and intermix along the median line; in the posterior one they all pursue the longitudinal direction. At each side of these grooves, two others (Jissurces late- rales) may be observed running parallel with them, being, however, but faintly marked. These indicate the lines in which the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves are attached to the medulla. 650. The cranial portion of the medulla (medulla ob- longata) is broad and thick, superiorly, near the pons Varolii, but tapers gradually towards the occipital foramen. Its anterior aspect is rounded, the posterior is somewhat flattened; and, as each presents a continuation of the median sulcus, it is divided into two symmetrical parts. The lateral depressions which correspond with the points of origin of the spinal nerves, are also continued upwards into the medulla oblongata. But though inferiorly the divisions established by these lines are so slightly marked as to have escaped notice, until Chaussier directed his at- tention to the subject, yet in the superior part (medulla ob- longata) they are so well defined as to have been deemed deserving of particular names. The anterior and posterior pair have been called the anterior and posterior pyramids ; the middle, from their shape, the corpora olivaria. These, according to Gall, are made up of the primitive, or forma- tive, fibres of the cerebrum and cerebellum, for, if they be traced upwards, the anterior pyramids, and the corpora olivaria, will be found continuous with the fibres which are expanded into the cerebral hemispheres, whilst the posterior pyramids (usually called, since Ridley’s time, corpora restiformia) are evolved into the lobes of the cerebellum. Besides these parts, which have been noticed by all anatomists, Mr. C. Bell has described another.