160 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 121. The scapulo-clavicular articulation is effected be- tween the acromion process, and the external end of the cla- vicle, which are connected, 1st, by a superior ligament, which is a strong broad band of fibres, passing from the superior surface of the acromion, to the adjacent extremity of the clavicle ; 2ndly, by an inferior ligament similar to the pre- ceding, and placed at the posterior surfaces of the same bones ; 3rdly, by a synovial membrane lining the two articu- lar surfaces of the bones. As there is an inter-articular carti- lage, there are sometimes two synovial sacs disposed in the same way as those in the sterno-clavicular articulation. 122. The coraco-clavicular ligament, which connects the clavicle with the coracoid process of the scapula, presents two parts, each marked by a particular name. There is, however, no division betwen them, nor other distinction, than that they look different ways. The posterior or internal fasciculus, (conoid ligament), broad above, narrow below, is attached inferiorly to the root of the coracoid process; superiorly, to a rough space at the inferior surface of the clavicle, its fibres being direct- ed backwards and upwards. The anterior or externalfas- ciculus (trapezoid ligament) passes from the superior sur- face of the coracoid process upwards, to an oblique line extending to the end of the clavicle from the tuberosity to which the conoid ligament is inserted; with the latter it unites at an angle, one of its aspects being directed for- wards and upwards, the other downwards and backwards. 123. There are two ligaments proper to the scapula. 1. The coracoid ligament (ligamentum proprium posterius) is a thin flat band of fibres, attached by its extremities to the op- posite margins of the notch, at the root of the coracoid pro- cess, which it thus converts into a foramen, for the trans- mission (most commonly) of the supra-scapular nerve, the artery passing external to it. 2. The coraco-acromion li- gament {ligamentum proprium anterius) is a broad, firm, triangular fasciculus, attached by its broader extremity to