373 DELTOID. during the expiration, the walls of the thorax, and the shoulder with them, must be allowed to sink down. A new volume of air being inspired, the series of muscular efforts above detailed again succeeds ; and if this alternation of action and relaxation be kept up for any time, a considerable degree of distress is induced. Whilst any considerable muscular exertion is being performed, the thorax must be fixed, and retained so by preventing the escape of the included air. This may be inferred from observa- tion on what takes places under such circumstances, but was reduced to the test of experiment by M. Bourdon.* He opened the trachea, or larynx of a dog, that had been in the habit of jump- ing and tumbling when bidden; after which, the animal was no longer able to make any similar efforts, though evidently willing to do so. But when the aperture was closed, by drawing the margins of the wound together, the lost power was instantly restored. The muscles of the shoulder are the deltoid, the supra- spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, teres major, and sub- scapularis. 375. The deltoid {sous acromio humeral) is situated at the superior and external part of the arm, covering in the shoulder-joint; its form is triangular, the base above, and the apex below. It arises from the external third of the cla- vicle, from the lower border of the acromion, and from the spine of the scapula, as far back as the small triangular surface in which it terminates; and is inserted into che rough prominence on the middle of the outer side of the humerus. Direction—the middle fibres descend perpen- dicularly, the anterior and posterior converge to these as to a common point: structure—fleshy and tendinous at its base, tendinous at its apex, fleshy in the rest of its extent; relations—by the outer surface with the platisma myoides and integuments; by the inner surface with (proceeding from before backwards) the tendon of the pectoralis major, the circumflex vessels and nerves, the outer side of the * Mtmoire sur les Efforts.