THE URETHRA. 525 a constricted portion, or neck, (corona glandis) which marks its junction with the rest of the penis. 583. The urethra is considered as being divisible into three portions, which are named according to the structures that surround them, each presenting some peculiarities deserv- ing notice. 1. The pars prostatica is the widest part, and from twelve to fifteen lines in length. In the middle of its floor, or lower surface, projects a narrow ridge, from eight to ten lines in length, formed by an elevation of the lining membrane and subjacent cellular tissue. From its shape it has received the name of caput gallinaginis, or verumon- tanum. In its middle is the aperture of a large mucous follicle, and close at each side the openings of the vas defe- rens, and ductus ejaeulatorius. External to this ridge the surface is depressed a little into a groove or sinus (sinus prostaticus), and is pierced by several minute foramina, communicating with the cells in the substance of the pros- tate, and through which a viscid fluid is made to ooze if it be pressed. 2. Pars membranosa comprises the interval between the margin of the prostate and the bulb, being from ten to twelve lines in length. It is the narrowest part of the canal, and composed of the proper membranes only of the urethra, so hence its name; but it is supported by the terminal expansions of Wilson’s muscles, is in close contact with Cowper’s glands, and at its extremity passes through an aperture in the deep perinseal fascia. 3. Pars hulbosa dilates somewhat at its lower surface, but the diameter of the canal at this point does not exceed that of the following part by more than a line, under ordinary circumstances. 3. Pars spongiosa is from six to seven inches in length, and continues uniform in its size, being intermediate in diameter between the membranous and bulbous part, whilst in the glans another dilatation appears to take place, called sinus navicularis, previously to its narrowing into the orifice of the urethra. It has lately been contended by M. Amussat, that this dilatation is rather apparent than real,