483 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY—ITS BRANCHES. reaches the inner surface of the first rib, beneath which it sends outwards an intercostal branch, similar in course and distribution to those derived from the aorta. Opposite the second intercostal space another branch is given off, after which it terminates by a small ramusculus, that communicates with the first aortic inter- costal branch. Some twigs are given to the upper part of the oesophagus, and some also enter the intervertebral foramina, to ra- mify on the dura mater of the spinal canal. 538. The thyroid axis is so called, because immediately after its origin, it divides into three branches, which diverge in different directions, viz. the thyroidea ascendens, transversalis colli, and transversalis humeri. 539. 3. Thyroidea ascendens passes upwards, resting on the longus colli, but soon turns inwards, behind the sheath of the cervical vessels and the sympathetic nerve, to reach the thyroid gland, in which its final branches ramify, communicating v.'ith those of the superior thyroid artery, derived from the carotid. At the point where the inferior thyroid changes its direction, a small branch usually arises from it, (csrvicalis ascendens) and proceeds up- wards, on the line of junction formed by the scalenus anticus and rectus anticus major, ramifying on these muscles, and communi- cating with the ramusculi sent outwards from the vertebral artery. 540. 4. Transversalis colli (scapularis posterior) passes directly outwards across the lower part of the neck, resting on the scaleni muscles and axillary plexus. On reaching the posterior angle of the scapula, it changes its direction, and turns downwards, along the base of that bone, as far as its inferior angle, where it freely anastomoses with the subscapular branch of the axillary artery. This vessel sometimes arises singly from the subclavian, and passes through the plexus. It lies deeply in its entire course, and gives off several branches. Opposite the anterior border of the trape- zius a branch passes upwards, becoming superficial (cervicalis su- perjicialis) and distributes ramusculi in the interval between the trapezius and sterno-masto'id muscles, supplying both, as well as the cervical glands and integuments. The proper posterior scapu- lar branch is in fact the continuation of the vessel, and will be found at the posterior angle of the scapula, under cover of the le- vator anguli muscle, and subsequently under the rhomboidei, to which it gives several branches, as well as to the latissimus dorsi 2 i 2