ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 560 in many cases cut across and severed altogether from the bladder. Heister says, that the stone was made prominent at the left side of the perinasurn, and that an oblique incision was then made down upon it. The line of incision marked in his plate corresponds exactly with that of the lateral operation, as now performed ; so that he must have taken his delineation from the mode of opera- tion practised in his own time, and not from that described by Celsus. After the revival of letters, when every dictum of Hippocrates passed for doctrine, a method of operation was devised by one Johannes Romanus, founded on a dogma of the father of physic, “ that wounds of membranous parts do not unite.” Its descrip- tion was subsequently given by one of his disciples, named Marianus Sanctus, from which circumstance it was afterwards called “ sectio Mariana,” but is better known as the apparatus major, .from the variety of instruments it required. When the perinseum was exposed, a grooved staff was introduced, and an incision made with a razor along the middle line, extending from beyond the bulb to within a finger’s breadth of the margin of the anus. A second incision laid open the bulbous part of the canal, which concluded the cutting part, as all the rest was to be done by dilatation; for though the rules of art forbade the division of membranous parts, they laid no injunction against their being stretched. Hence the operation was of a mixed character, founded partly on the necessity of resorting to incisions, and partly on the equally imperative necessity of deferring to autho- rity. When the urethra was laid open, dilators were introduced, in order to distend the canal sufficiently to admit the forceps; but, as may be concluded from a consideration of its structure and width, laceration was the immediate result, and not simple dilatation. The after consequences may be readily inferred. At a subsequent period, a method of operation was projected and carried into execution by a monk, named Frere Jacques, who appears to have been altogether unacquainted with anatomy, and even otherwise illiterate, and yet his plan must be admitted to have paved the way for the introduction of that which is now most generally employed. Having introduced a common catheter (not grooved) he therewith caused the bladder to be made prominent in the left side of the perinmum: he, in the next place, inserted a