ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 328 by being inserted into the linea alba. These, by being stretched between the points just referred to, and by run- ning across the fibres of the internal oblique and transver- salis muscles, with which they are in close contact, tend materially to support them. But this is not the only influ- ence they seem to exert. If the fibres of the external oblique be cut through, so that no part be allowed to remain but the external pillar of the ring, and Poupart’s ligament, it is clear that no direct communication any longer exists between the latter and the linea alba. Now, if the linea alba be pushed to the opposite side, or if it be cut across, and drawn in different directions, by being held in the forceps, Poupart’s ligament will be made tense and ele- vated by the traction exerted upon it, through the medium of the oblique fibres here described. These fibres then serve not only to strengthen the part over which they are extended, but also to connect the linea alba and Poupart’s ligament, somewhat on the principle of a diagonal brace, and by means of their elasticity tend to weaken the force of any pressure made upon the part by diffusing it over a greater extent of surface. Should the intestine protrude in this situation, it must either distend and push before it the conjoined fibres of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles, together with those last described, or it may rup- ture some of them, and escape through the interval. In either case, it passes directly forwards through the external ring, and hence has been denominated direct inguinal her- nia. But Hesselbach calls it hernia interna, from its rela- tion to the epigastric artery. A correct and clear know- ledge of the direction and formation of the inguinal canal can alone enable the surgeon to apply the taxis judiciously in cases of oblique hernia. And a knowledge of the pre- cise situation of the internal ring is no less necessary to point out the exact spot on which the pad of a truss should be applied to prevent the recurrence of a hernial pro- trusion,