ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 390 brevior, also from the fascia of the arm, and the septa be- tween it and the last named muscles. Somewhat below the middle of the fore-arm the muscular part ends in four ten- dons, which, after passing beneath the posterior annular ligament of the wrist, diverge as they proceed along the carpus and metacarpus. Each of these expands on reach- ing the fingers, forming a fibrous sheath, which encases the back of the digital phalanges, into which they are thus in- serted. At its origin it lies between the extensor carpi ra- dialis brevior, and extensor carpi ulnaris, and maintains the same relation as it descends towards the wrist. It covers the supinator radii brevis, and the extensors of the thumb, at their origin; and as the tendons pass along the metacarpal bones, they are connected to one another by slips of com- munication passing obliquely between them. 400. The extensor digiti minimi is usually united with the common extensor, and has been considered by some as a part of it. It is placed between the muscle last named and the extensor carpi ulnaris. It arises in common with the extensor communis, presents, as it descends along the arm, a thin fleshy belly, which ends in a tendon that passes through a ring in the annular ligament appropriated to it- self. This will be observed to join with the fourth digital tendon of the common extensor, conjointly with which it expands upon the posterior surface of the phalanges of the little finger. 401. The extensor carpi ulnaris lies towards the ulnar border of the fore-arm, being extended from the external condyle to the root of the little finger. It arises from the posterior surface of the external condyle by a tendon common to it, the extensor communis, and extensor carpi radialis; some fibres are also derived from the septa that lie between it and these muscles, as well as from the fas- cia of the arm. The muscle inclines somewhat inwards, and ends in a tendon, which runs through a groove ap- propriated to it in the carpal end of the ulna, and after