Hernia—fascia iliaca. 333 has been made of its boundaries, or its pillars, as they have been called. It is difficult to conceive the existence of any thing so dense or defined, as to resemble a pillar, in a membrane so thin and uniform in its structure. Most probably a consideration of the structure of the external ring led to the idea that it was necessary to institute an analogy between it and the internal one, and so to assign pillars to the one as well as the other. 339. 2. The fascia iliaca is more dense and firm than the membrane just described. It is in close contact with the iliacus muscle, and, like it, is attached to the inner margin of the crista ilei from the anterior superior spine backwards for three-fourths of its extent, and, so far, it is continuous with the fascia transversalis, which has been described as being inserted along that line. When traced inwards, it is found to pass behind the iliac vessels and over the psoas muscle, along the inner border of which it sinks into the pelvis. Round the margin of this cavity the fascia becomes closely connected to the bone by means of dense cellular fibres, after which it descends, lying upon the inner sur- face of the obturator internus muscle, until it comes to a level with an oblique line, extended from the symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium. At the point here indi- cated the fascia turns inwards guided, by the pelvic surface of the levator ani muscle, and so reaches the side of the rectum and bladder, with which it becomes identified. In the interval between the spine of the ischium and the pro- montory of the sacrum, the fascia stretches across the great sciatic notch, covering over the parts which escape through it; and as it lies behind the internal iliac artery, it must be pierced by its different branches, giving to each a tubular prolongation. On reaching the surface of the sacrum the fascia becomes continuous with that of the opposite side. It may thus be observed that the psoas muscle is covered by the fascia as well as the iliacus. We have as yet traced it upon the former no higher than where it is on a line with