76 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. berosity; the part above this is triangular, and gives at- tachment to the popliteus muscle, that below it to the tibi- alis posticus and flexor digitorum, and from the line itself arises the soleus. Near this line may be observed the me- dullary foramen, its direction being from above downwards. The anterior border, sharp and prominent, particularly to- wards the middle, is called the crista of the tibia ; it gra- dually subsides towards the lower part. The inner border, thick and rounded, gives attachment to the soleus and flexor communis, whilst the external, somewhat sharp, divides in- feriorly into two lines, which diverge towards the surface of articulation with the fibula. The interosseous ligament is in- serted into this external angle. The body of the tibia is slightly twisted, so that the internal tuberosity inclines back- wards, and the internal malleolus forwards, which confor- mation deserves attention in the diagnosis and adjustment of fractures. The tibia articulates with the femur, the fibula, and the astragalus. Attachments of Muscles. To the external surface and external tuberosity, the tibialis anticus ; to the latter also, the head of the extensor longus digitorum ; to the inner surface, the sartorius, gracilis, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membranosus ; the popliteus to the triangular space on the posterior sur- face ; the soleus, tibialis posticus, and flexor longus, to the rest of its extent, and through the medium of the patella and its ligament, it may be said to give insertion to the extensors of the leg. The Fibula. 51. This bone is situated at the external side of the leg ; it is nearly equal to the tibia in length, but is much more slender. Its direction is nearly vertical, the lower extremity inclining somewhat forwards. The body, irregularly trian- gular in its form, presents three prominent lines bounding three surfaces; the anterior or most prominent line, gives origin to muscles in the superior part of its extent, and bi-