443 LONGUS COLLI. 470. The longns colli rests on the fore part of the spinal column, from the atlas to the third dorsal vertebra. It ap- pears to consist of two portions, differing in length, and in the direction of their fibres. One of these, superior, and external to the other, arises by a narrow, tendinous process from the anterior tubercle of the atlas, from which its fibres descend obliquely outwards, to be inserted into the fore part of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebras. The other part of the muscle commences at the depression in the body of the axis, its fibres also arise from the bodies of the second and third cervical vertebras, and from the transverse processes of the fourth and fifth. The tendinous and fleshy fibres derived from these attachments pass vertically downwards, to be inserted into the bodies of the three or four lower cervical vertebrae and the three upper dorsal. These muscles are smooth and tendinous at their anterior aspect. They sup- port the pharynx, oesophagus, and sympathetic nerves, the carotid arteries, and eighth pair of nerves. Actions.—The anterior recti muscles are the natural antagonists of those placed at the back of the neck. They restore the head to its natural position when it has been drawn backwards by the posterior muscles, and continuing their effort, bow it slightly forwards. Beneath the base of the skull, and at opposite points, we find short and straight muscles, two in front (recti antici), two behind (rectus posticus, major and minor), one on each side (rectus lateralis), which are the direct agents in the restricted motions that take place between the head and the first vertebra. The horizontal movement of the head is effected by the obliqui, par- ticularly by the inferior one. It is obvious, that if it acted by itself, the first vertebra only would be rotated on the second, the head remaining unmoved ; but the recti minores and the superior oblique muscle conspire to fix the skull on the first vertebra, and thereby communicate to it any movement impressed on the latter by the other oblique muscle.