244 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. line drawn, or a cord extended from midw'ay between the anterior superior spine of the ileum, and the symphysis pubis, to the lower border of the patella. In this position of the limb, the vessel cannot be said to incline inwards; but if the subject be laid on the back, and both legs be placed closely together, the arteries of opposite sides will be nearer to one another, and therefore to the median line, in the popliteal space, than when under Poupart’s ligament, which indicates a slight inclination inwards. A cursory in- spection would however lead us to suppose the inclination to be greater than it really is, which is owing to the oblique di- rection of the femur. This is by no means a matter of indif- ference in a practical point of view. The saphena vein has been wounded in a few instances during the operation for tying the femoral artery. This accident may happen to any individual, who, from supposing that the artery inclines in- wards as it descends, makes his first incision oblique, so as to correspond with such a direction of the vessel. It has been said,* that if a line be drawn from midway between the spine of the ileum and the symphysis pubis, down to the middle of the popliteal space, it will indicate the course of the vessel. This is nearly correct; but as it runs along the inner surface of the thigh, its course is rendered much more oblique than that of the vessel which is placed so much nearer the shaft of the femur. Tn the skeleton, whilst the femur hangs freely, a plummet line suspended from midway between the pubic symphysis and spine of the ileum, will drop exactly between the condyles of the femur, and mark as nearly as can be for all practical purposes, the direction of the artery. In the upper third of the thigh it is perpendicularly downwards, some slight deviation inwards may exist in the middle third, where the vessel is borne off from the bone by the vastus muscle; but this cannot be so great as to require any obliquity in the direction of an inci- sion, made with the view of exposing it. * Boyer, traitS d’Anatomie, torn. iii.