149 THE ARTICULATIONS. than in the hip. Rotation, on the contrary, is more free and perfect in the latter than in the former. Circumduc- tion can be executed with ease only when the axis of mo- tion coincides (or very nearly so) with that of the lever to be moved, as is the case in the humerus ; but in the femur the length of the neck of the bone removes the axis of mo- tion considerably from that of the shaft, and thereby im- pedes circumduction in proportion as it facilitates the rota- tion of the limb. These differences of structure in the su- perior joints of the two extremities bear a direct relation to the conformation of their other articulations, and to the purposes for which they are adapted. For, as the inferior extremity is intended to sustain the weight of the body, and for progression, the bones of the leg must be securely fixed, which could be effected only by diminishing their mobility; on this account no rotation or supination is allowed between the tibia and fibula, but to compensate for this deficiency, rotation is permitted in the hip. But, as the superior extremity, on the contrary, is fitted for the prehension of objects, and for quick and varied move- ments, free motion is allowed between the bones of the fore arm, and between the latter and the carpus, in order that the hand and fingers may be more readily directed and applied to such objects as are required to be seized for different purposes, and the power of pronation and su- pination thus conferred more than compensates for any de- ficiency in the rotatory motion of the humerus. 99. It has been already observed, that rotatory motion in a bone presupposes the existence of a globular head, placed so that its axis shall form an angle with the shaft. Wherever this requisite is wanted, motion is confined to opposition and circumduction, as occurs in the articulation of the thumb with the carpus, in the phalanges with the metacarpal bones, and in the clavicle with the sternum. In these joints the articulating surfaces are placed at the ends of the more moveable bones, and as their axes