elements OF ANATOMY. 114- The internal surface of the os planum forms part of the wall of the nasal fossa, and gives attachment to several thin, delicate bony lamellae, which project inwards, and form the ethmoidal cells. The spongy bones arch inwards and downwards, their convex surface being directed towards the septum, the concave outwards and downwards, enclos- ing spaces (;meatus narium), of which there are three alto- gether, two formed by the ethmoidal spongy bones, the third by a separate bone. The first, or most superior, very small, covers in the superior meatus. The second is larger every way, and extends from before downwards and back- wards; its superior border projects from the side of the ethmoidal cells, the inferior is free in the nares ; the poste- rior is narrow and unattached, the anterior is prolonged forwards to a level with the anterior border of the crista galli, and articulates with the cellular border of the frontal bone. The middle meatus, thus enclosed, is curved from before backwards and downwards, expanding as it de- scends, and hence is sometimes called infundibulum. Along the superior and external border of the ethmoid bone are observed several small cells, which are covered in by similar vacuities in the adjacent border of the frontal bone; on the border of this surface are also observed two smooth grooves completed into foramina by similar grooves in the frontal bone; the anterior one transmits the nasal twig of the ophthalmic nerve, and an accompanying artery, the other the posterior ethmoidal artery and vein. The inferior aspect of the bone is very irregular and cellular like the rest; it articulates with the border of the maxillary sinus, and with the inferior spongy bone. The anterior extremity articulates with the os unguis, which completes the anterior cells. The posterior joins with the sphenoidal cells. The ethmoid articulates with thirteen bones; with the frontal by the cellular margins of its inter-orbitar fossa; with the nasal bones; with the ossa unguis; the supe-