PERINEUM—LITHOTOMY. 5G1 2 O long bistoury between the anus and tuber ischii, but nearer the latter; and, directing it upwards and forwards, he entered the bladder at its side, and cut through the neck, “without injuring* any other part of the urethra.” When the operation was per- formed on the dead subject, it was found, that “ the integument having been divided for about two lingers breadth, the wound next passed between the accelerator and erector muscles, without injuring either, and had penetrated the neck of the bladder, and part of its body, for about an inch j-.” This was subsequently termed the lateral operation, both because the incision was pa- rallel with the side of the perinasal space, and also because it opened its way into the side of the bladder. This plan was acted on, but modified and improved, by Ravius, or Raw, in Holland, and Cheselden, in this country, both of whom used a grooved staff. Mr. Cheselden, in his first operations, entered the bladder at the side, and then divided the neck by drawing the scalpel from within outwards, or towards the surface. It must be very difficult to extract, without laceration, a stone of any size through an incision placed so deeply, and corresponding with the side, and not with the most depending point of the bladder: for this reason, as well as from its having been followed by sloughing of the cellular substance round the rectum, caused by infiltrations of urine, this method was soon abandoned. An objection of another sort may also be taken to it, derived from a consideration of the direction in which the incision in the bladder is made. The point of the scalpel is entered at a part comparatively unsupported and moveable, and is thence directed towards the neck, which, by means of its attachments, is held fixed, which is contrary to an obvious principle in the making of incisions. This Cheselden effectually remedied, by entering his scalpel into the groove of the staff, where it lies in the membranous part of the urethra, and passing it from before backwards, so as to divide the prostate gland and neck of the bladder. The operation, as devised by this eminent surgeon, and practised at the present day, may be performed as follows, (attention is here confined to the operative part exclusively, all other details and preliminaries being foreign * Heister, System of Surgery. t Ibid: