59G ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. branch to each lung. The ductus arteriosus, it may be observed, is a short canal, which passes from the extremity of the pulmo- nary artery to the arch of the aorta, and opens into it just oppo- site the point from which the left subclavian artery arises. By means of this communication, the streams which issue from the two ventricles become blended, at least in part, and so the duct has the same effect on the action of the ventricles that the foramen ovale has on the auricles; it makes them, as it were, a single cavity, and the heart, considered as a whole, becomes, by this double communication, analogous to that of several of the lower animals, in which it consists of one auricle and one ventricle. When the placenta is formed, and the foetus, through its medium, begins to derive support from the parent, the course of the nutri- tive fluid is as follows:—A vein (umbilical), commencing by branches in the placenta, passes along from it, being in its course coiled round by two arteries (umbilical), which are continua- tions of the hypogastric arteries of the foetus, and are intended to carry back to the placenta the residue of the blood that had previously circulated in the body of the new being. The vein having reached the abdomen, passes towards the longitudinal fissure of the liver, in which it runs from before backwards, send- ing branches chiefly to the left lobe. At the transverse fissure it forms a direct inosculation with the vena portae, so that the cur- rents of the two veins are mingled at that point, after which they circulate in the liver. The remainder of the blood brought by the umbilical vein is carried onwards to the vena cava by the ductus venosus (which is lodged in the posterior part of the longi- tudinal fissure), and so to the heart. Were it then required to in- dicate the course of a given quantity of blood derived from the placenta, and circulated through the foetus, it would be found as follows: When brought to the liver by the umbilical vein, part is given to that organ (its left lobe) without mixture, and part, after being mixed with that of the vena portae, whilst the rest, by means of the ductus venosus, is conveyed to the vena cava, and so to the right auricle, mingled with the blood of that vein. The current passes directly backwards through the foramen ovale into the left auricle, and thence into the left ventricle. From the last named cavity it is propelled through the aorta, and its ascending branches.