563 PERINiEUM—“ LITH0NTRIT1E.' Mr. Colles*:—“ If you have entered your knife into the urethra, high up in the perinasum, and, while the point of the knife is lodged there, should depress the staff, and attempt the division of the prostate, you will have to make it describe a portion of a circle at the same time that it is dividing very resisting parts.” This brief historical notice shews us at one view the various routes that have been chosen at different times to reach the blad- der, through the perinaeum: narrow as the space is, it is sur- rounded with parts on every side that must be avoided. The rectum lies beneath the line of incision, the pudic artery outside it, and the artery of the bulb above it; and, again, whilst passing into the bladder, the incision must be so made as to avoid the ejaculatory ducts. Notwithstanding these difficulties, if the parts were unvarying in their relations, the execution of the opera- tion may be made comparatively easy, by performing it a number of times on the dead subject. But, in addition to the complexity of the lines of incision, and their close contiguity to parts which should not by any means be wounded, there is another source of difficulty which is seldom attended to, and which arises from the fact, that the depth, as well as the dimensions of the perinaeal space, vary, in different individuals, far more than could at first sight be supposed. It is usually said, that the space is included within three lines, each three inches long, so that it is an equila- teral triangle; and, as the operation is now performed, the left lateral half of that triangle is alone interested. The extent of the space here indicated is more than the average. Professor Dupuy- tren measured the distance between the tuberosities of the iscliia in twenty-three subjects, taken indiscriminately from the dissecting rooms, and found that in some, it was not more than two inches, but in others, was as much as three and a half. Again, by placing one branch of a pelvimetre at the surface of the perinasum, and the other at the neck of the bladder, it was ascertained that the distance between them, or, in other words, the depth of the perinaeum, was in some instances only an inch and some lines, in others four inches and a quarter. A method of proceeding has lately been devised-)-, with a view to remove altogether the necessity of incisions for the extraction * Treatise on Surgical Anatomy, p. 211. 1 Lithontritie, par Civiale. ' 2 o 2