ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 254 this step of the operation. The point of the needle is said to be hitched on “ some tough cellular membrane,” which is pushed on- wards, and requires to be divided before the needle can be fairly protruded. This resistance is owing to the sheath of the vessels, now loose after its division, and readily caught into a fold by the point of the instrument. In operating on the dead subject, this impediment is readily removed, by pinching up the external flap of the sheath, and holding it tight with the forceps, whilst the needle is passed round the artery. The nerves which here he external to the sheath, will by the same expedient be held out of the way. The ligature of the carotid artery is facilitated by the same means. Would such a measure be advisable in operating on the living ? It is not altogether undeserving of attention. 275. The 'popliteal artery (portion poplitee de la crurale, Chauss.) is that part of the arterial trunk that extends from the opening in the adductor magnus, to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, being continuous superiorly with the femoral, and inferiorly with the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, into which it divides. The direction of the vessel is downwards and a little outwards, running through the centre of the popliteal space. In this course the vessel rests superiorly on the flat surface of the femur, then on the posterior surface of the knee joint, and finally on the popliteus muscle. Its posterior surface is covered for some way by the semi-membranosus; in the ham it is covered only by the skin, fascia, and a quantity of adipose matter in which it is embedded, but lower down it is concealed by the gastrocnemius. On either side of it lie the hamstring muscles above, and the heads of the gastrocnemius below. The artery is accompanied by the popliteal vein, and the sciatic nerve, the vein being posterior, and a little external to it, the nerve still more posterior and external, that is to say, lying nearer to the skin and to the head of the fibula. The popliteal artery gives off five articular branches, two above and two below the joint, and one which passes into it, and also some muscular branches to the gastrocnemius, hamstrings, &c.