88 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. somewhat by a fibro-cartilaginous margin, which passes round it from the tendon of the biceps muscle, whose origin is at its upper margin; its greatest diameter is perpendicu- lar, its direction outwards and forwards. In this last respect, however, it varies considerably, for during the more ex- tended motions of the humerus, the scapula is made to turn, as it were, on a pivot driven through the centre of its dor- sum, by which means the glenoid cavity is kept constantly in apposition with the head of the humerus, which is the chief security against its dislocation. The scapula affords attachment to the following muscles : The subscapular fossa (the anterior or costal surface of the bone) to the subscapularis muscle. Posterior or dorsal sur- face ; the spine, (by its external border and the acromion) superiorly to the trapezius, inferiorly to the deltoid. The fossa supra-spinata, by its posterior two-thirds, to the muscle of the same name. The fossa infra-spinata, by a slight ob- lique line situated near the inferior angle, to the aponeurosis common to the infra-spinatus, teres minor, and teres major; by a narrow surface, near the axillary border, to the teres minor; by the flat surface, at its inferior angle, to the teres major ; in the rest of its extent, to the infra-spinatus. The superior border to the omo-hyoideus ; the coracoid process, anteriorly, to the pectoralis minor, by its summit, to the biceps and coraco-brachialis. The posterior border or base, anteri- orly, to the serratus magnus; posteriorly, to the supra-spi- natus and infra-spinatus; in the interspace to therhomboidei. The inferior, or axillary border, superiorly, by a depression to the long portion of the triceps extensor; posteriorly, by an unequal surface, to some fibres of the teres minor ; infe- riorly, to the teres major. The supero-posterior angle to the levator anguli scapulae ; in- ferior angle to the teres major, and some fibres of the latis- simus dorsi; anterior angle, (glenoid cavity,) by its upper margin, to the long head of the biceps muscle.