52 0 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. priety called its fundus, tlie narrow tapering part—the neck, the intermediate portion being the body. As the pelvis expands, the bladder gradually subsides into it, so as not to rise above its margin (at least in the adult) unless when dis- tended, and at the same time assumes a remarkable change of form. It becomes a compressed oval, for the lower part of its body expands and subsides on the rectum, probably by the weight of the fluid it habitually sustains, and to this part is applied the term base, “ bas-fond.” Thus we are obliged to recur to the original application of the terms, in order to explain an apparent inconsistency in those em- ployed ; and the inconsistency is heightened by making the terms “ fundus” and “ summit” synonymous, at the same time that “ fundus” and “ base” are applied to different parts of the same viscus. Yet so the nomenclature runs:— that which was the fundus in the foetal bladder is not un- frequently called “ summit,” because it is the highest part. 576. The direction of the bladder is oblique, being in- clined somewhat forwards and upwards, from base to sum- mit ; and, as it is being gradually distended, it comes for- ward more and more, the neck being fixed, whilst the fundus and body curve forwards and upwards with the dis- tension. If examined in this condition, three ligamentous cords (viz. the urachus, and the remains of the umbilical arteries) will be observed to pass from its summit obliquely upwards behind the recti muscles to the umbilicus. Into its base two tubes are inserted, viz. the ureters; and at the sides, the vasa deferentia pass obliquely backwards. Now, all that part of the posterior surface and sides of the bladder included between these lines is covered by perito- naeum, the remainder being uncovered. Thus, at the fore- part, from the point of attachment of the urachus, down to the neck of the bladder, no serous covering exists. In the collapsed condition all this lies behind the pubis; but when distended, part of it rises above its margin, and is in contact with the recti muscles; inferiorly, from the entrance