655 CEREBRAL NERVES—EIGHTH PAIR. dura, above the nervus vagus, and between the corpus oli- vare and restiforme. The nerve inclines outwards and for- wards to the foramen lacerum posterius, where it enters a small canal formed for it by the dura mater, through which it escapes from the skull. In its transit it lies internal and anterior to the jugular vein, and soon after its exit branches of communication are given to the vagus and facial nerves, and some received from the sympathetic. In the next place, some filaments pass inwards from the nerve to the pha- rynx, where they contribute to form the pharyngeal plexus ; after which it comes into contact with the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, along which it runs to the side of the pharynx. Its ultimate distribution takes place by three small branches, one of which will be found to enter the substance of the tongue towards its root, giving filaments to the constrictor of the fauces and the lingualis; another extends to the amygdala, contributing to form a plexus around it; and the third, after giving some filaments to the hyoglossus muscle, terminates amongst the mucous follicles on the dorsum of the tongue. 690. 2. The nervus vagus (par vagum, sympathetica,s medius, pneumo-gastrique) arises immediately beneath the preceding, by eight or ten filaments, placed closely together, so as to form a flat fasciculus. The nerve inclines out- wards and forwards to the foramen lacerum, through which it escapes from the cranium, being in its passage separated from the jugular vein by a spicula of bone that projects from the pars petrosa, and from the nerves which lake a similar course by a tubular prolongation of the dura mater which invests it. The filaments by which the nerve arises, become aggregated into a rounded cord whilst passing through the foramen, and at the base of the skull a close communication by branches is established be- tween it and the glosso-pharyngeal, lingual, and sympa- thetic nerves. In the same situation also it presents a slight elongated swelling, resembling a ganglion in colour