ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 440 into the anterior surface of the body of the os hyoides. This pair of muscles lies between the mylo-hyoideus and the lower, or free border of the genio-hyo-glossus. 462. The hyo-glossus is a flat, thin band of muscular fibres, placed at the side of the tongue. It arises from the great cornu of the os hyoides and part of its body, from which it inclines upwards and outwards, to be inserted into the side of the tongue, where its fibres expand, becoming blended with its substance. It supports the gustatory nerve, and conceals the origin of the middle constrictor of the pharynx and part of the lingual artery. 463. The genio-hyo-glossus is so called from its triple connexion with the chin, os hyoides, and tongue. The muscle forms a flat, triangular plane, placed vertically be- tween the middle line of the tongue, and the os hyoides. Its inner surface is in contact with the corresponding muscle, the external being covered by those last described. It arises by a short, pointed tendon, from the prominent tubercle on the inside of the symphysis of the chin. To this the fleshy fibres succeed and diverge from one another, th6 inferior ones passing down to the os hyoides, the ante- rior forwards to the tip of the tongue, and all the rest pro- ceeding with different degrees of obliquity to the under surface of the tongue, with which they are blended in its entire length from base to apex. 464. The lingualis is a thin, narrow band of fleshy fibres, extended along the under surface of the tongue in its en- tire length. It lies between the preceding muscle and the hyo-glossus; one extremity of its fibres is connected to the os hyoides, and the other prolonged to the tip of the tongue, being blended inseparably with its substance. Actions.—The muscles that pass from the jaw-bone to the os hyoides are ordinarily employed in elevating the latter, and with it the base of the tongue, more particularly in deglutition. The genio-hyo-glossi, by means of their posterior and inferior fibres, can draw up the os hyoides at the same time, bringing it and the