264* ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. the needle being directed from below upwards and inwards to- wards the ankle, to avoid the nerve. In the interval between the lower part of the calf of the leg and the inner ankle, the artery may be exposed in the following way: An incision should be made parallel with the inner border of the tendo Achillis, for about the same length, and through the same structures (the skin and two layers of fascia) as in the preceding operation. This will bring the artery into view. Few operations on arteries, probably none, present more diffi- culties than that of tying the posterior tibial, while it is under cover of the soleus and gastrocnemius. The tibial origin of the former must be detached from the bone; and if, during this step of the operation, the deep fascia be torn, or the muscles rendered in any way confused, there remains no guide to the situation of the ar- tery. In order to relax the muscles as much as possible, the knee must be slightly bent, and the foot extended so as to elevate the heel. If the limb be then placed on its outer side, and the knee supported, the seat of operation will be fairly brought into view. The incision through the skin must be very long, as the vessel lies so deeply ; it may vary from four to five inches, according to the thickness of the muscles. It is usually directed to be made along the inner border of the tibia, so as to expose the margin of the gastrocnemius. In doing this the saphena vein can be easily avoided, as its course is quite apparent. When the soleus is ex- posed, its border is to be detached from the tibia, proceeding from below upwards, so as, if possible, to get a clear view of the deep fascia. If this be once obtained towards the lower part of the in- cision, a director can, without much difficulty, be insinuated be- tween the membrane and the muscle, preparatory to the division of the fibres of the latter. When, by means of a retractor, the mus- cles are drawn back, so as to open the wound, its breadth will be found diminished by the posterior border of the incision in the in- tegument ; for it will be recollected, that its direction c oincided, in the first instance, with that of the border of the muscle, where it is attached to the bone ; but it will no longer do so when the muscle is drawn backwards. In other situations, where deep incisions are required, both margins of the wound can be held aside by the re- tractors, but here the posterior one only admits of their applica- tion, as the other coincides with the tibia. The necessity of some