300 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. both. The internal one, it will be recollected, takes the direction of the saphena vein. The points here stated must of course be considered only as approximations to the fact, for superficial nerves, like branches of arteries, must be subject to many varieties in their course and distribution. But if the nerves be found, by searching for them in these situations, they can be readily traced by following the directions above given. The superficial nerves of the leg may be exposed by making an incision through the skin from midway between the head of the fibula, and spine of the tibia, to the middle of the ankle. This should be bounded below by a transverse incision, extending from one ankle to the other; the upper end being afterwards pro- longed to the border of the incision made during the dissection of the thigh. It will be found convenient to make another trans- verse incision across the middle of the leg, taking care that it does not go so deep as the fascia, else it will divide the saphena vein and the nerves. The internal flap of the skin may in the next place be cautiously raised over the inner condyle, and when the tendons of the gracilis and sartorius muscles are brought into view, the saphenous nerve will be found between them. There can then be no difficulty in tracing it in its entire extent from above downwards, particularly if it be drawn tight. To expose the nerves on the dorsum of the foot, an incision may be made through the integument, from midway between the ankles to the middle toe. A lateral incision must also be made from each ankle to the corresponding border of the foot. The flaps of skin being cautiously reflected, will expose the termina- tions of the internal cutaneous nerve on the one side, and of the peroneal and external cutaneous on the other. If the fascia be in the next place divided close to the tendon of the extensor pollicis, the anterior tibial nerve will be readily found, and its branches traced forwards from that point along the foot. Finally, if that membrane be divided from the ankle to the knee, in the direction of our first incision through the skin, and the extensor pollicis and tibialis anticus separated and held apart, the anterior tibial nerve may be exposed in its entire course. The posterior set of superficial nerves are derived from different sources. To trace them it becomes necessary to turn the subject