ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 326 forwards, and cutting across the prolongation which it re- ceives from the fascia. When the cord is relaxed, the aperture becomes apparent. The outlet, or the inferior and external opening, {the external abdominal ring) is the triangular interval left between the fibres of the exter- nal oblique muscle, which has been already described ; the canal itself being formed by the different structures which compose the parietes of the abdomen. At the point above indicated, viz. midway between the anterior superior spine of the ileum and the pubic symphysis, the spermatic vessels and the vas deferens meet at an angle. They there pierce the fascia transversalis, as has been already stated, and re- ceive from it their first investment, viz. the funnel-shaped process given off from the margin of the internal ring. Thus inclosed, they turn downwards and inwards, under cover of the transversalis muscle, and then under the inter- nal oblique. During this part of its course, which is about one-third of the length of the canal, the cord rests on the fascia transversalis, and is covered immediately by the mus- cles just mentioned. Whilst passing from under the lower border of the internal oblique, it receives its second cover- ing, the cremaster muscle, and during the rest of its course through the canal, it lies upon the conjoined fibres of the internal oblique and. transversalis muscles, (where they turn down to be inserted into the crest of the pubis and the pectineal line), and is covered by the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At the external ring its third investment is placed upon it, viz. the intercolumnar fascia, or fascia of the cord, after w'hich it becomes covered by the superficial fascia and the common integument. These different struc- tures are examined with attention by anatomists, not so much from a consideration of any importance or interest they possess in the natural or healthy condition of the parts, but by reason of the relation which they bear to her- nial tumours, when they occur in this situation. Five lamellae, it will be recollected, have been here enumerated,