ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 630 within them the infundibulum, with the corpora mammillaria, and both terminate in the profunda cerebri arteries ; thus forming the sides of the circle of Willis. b. cerebri anterior arises from the division of the in- ternal carotid, opposite the inner termination of the fissure of Silvius. From this point it inclines forwards and inwards to reach the margin of the longitudinal fissure, in which it is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by a branch not more than two lines in length (communicans anterior). The two arteries in the next place, lying close together, turn around the anterior border of the corpus callosum, and on reaching its upper surface, run from before backwards upon it, overlapped by the cerebral hemi- spheres. In this course numerous branches are given off to the cerebral convolutions. c. — media cerebri inclines obliquely outwards, taking the course of the fissure of Silvius, within which it divides into several branches, for the supply of the anterior and middle lobes of the brain. Some of these branches, as they ramify in the pia mater, turn forwards, to the substantia perforata antica; and one or two will also be observed to enter the fissure between the middle lobe and the crus cerebri, to reach the descending cornu of the ven- tricle, where they are distributed to the plexus choro'ides (arteria choro'idea.) A remarkable inosculation exists between the branches of the vertebral and carotid arteries, by which the circulation in the brain is equalized, and any deficiency that may arise from the oblite- ration of one, or even two of the vessels, is speedily supplied by the others. This inosculation, which is known as the circle of Willis, results from a direct communication between the following branches. The anterior cerebral arteries, as they converge, are connected by their anterior communicating branch. These, or rather the trunk from which they arise, are united by the reflected communicating branches with the profunda cerebri arteries, and the two latter are united with the basilar artery at its point of ter- mination. Within the area thus included will be observed the commissure of the optic nerves, the infundibulum and tuber cine- reum, the corpora mammillaria, and the origins of the third pair of nerves.