531 THE TESTES—THEIR STRUCTURES. one part of it invests the body of the testis, as well as the epididymis, except where the vessels enter its posterior border, at which point it is reflected outwards, and becomes a lining to the preceding investments, to which it adheres by cellular tissue. 591. The testes are of an oval form, somewhat com- pressed laterally, and so placed by the manner in which they are suspended by the spermatic cords, that their upper extremities are turned obliquely forwards, and the lower, in a corresponding degree, backwards. Along the posterior border of each is placed an elongated appendage, called epididymis (Wi, upon; oiA^o?, the testis). The testis is inclosed in a dense, firm, fibrous investment, which in a manner determines its form, called tunica albuginea. It belongs to the class of fibrous membranes, and is composed of fibres interlacing in every direction. It is of a clear white colour, and is invested externally by the tunica va- ginalis. The inner surface is in intimate contact with the proper structure of the testis, being the seminal tubes, and moreover gives off a number of cellular lamellae which pro- ject between them, so as to divide them into several packets or lobules, placed one over the other. Along its poste- rior border will be observed a narrow line (corpus High- tnori), which is not unlike the ciliary ligament in the eye. It gives attachment to the cellular lamellae above mentioned, and serves to support the tubuli as they pass backwards through the tunica albuginea. Structure.—The proper structure of the testis presents, when its fibrous coat is laid open, the appearance of a pulpy, ash- coloured mass, composed of a number of delicate filaments. In- jection with quicksilver demonstrates these to be minute tubes (tubuli seminiferi) united by cellular tissue, and coiled upon them- selves, so as to form a series of lobuli. According to Munro secundus, who examined the testis with particular attention, a given lobulus (of which there appear to be in all about three hun- 2 M 2