ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. G70 705. The semi-lunar ganglia have been considered by some persons as the centre of the gangliac system. They are of considerable size, but vary very much in form. They are supported on the crura of the diaphragm, close at each side of the coeliac axis. From their circumference a great number of branches proceed, which form an ex- tensive and intricate interlacement, called the solar plexus, which is placed before the aorta and spine, and above the pancreas. It will be recollected, that though it is formed chiefly by the sympathetic, it receives branches also from the vagus and phrenic nerves. The secondary plexus above alluded to consist of a number of filaments, which proceed to each of the chylopoietic viscera, following the course of their arteries, and denominated according^. Thus the numerous branches which accompany the hepatic artery to the liver, through the lesser omentum, constitute the hepatic plexus; those which proceed to the stomach form the coronary plexus, to the spleen the splenic jjlexus ; and those which lie within the folds of the mesentery re- ceive the name of the great mesenteric plexus, from which another plexus is derived, the branches of which accom- pany the inferior mesenteric artery. The renal plexus differs from the others merely in the circumstance that it is made up by the lesser splanchnic nerve, and by branches from the solar plexus: from it also is derived the spermatic plexus, which descends (in the male) to the testis, taking the course of the spermatic artery ; and in the female passes into the pelvis, to be distributed to the ovarium. 70G. The continuation of the sympathetic nerve enters the abdomen by passing beneath the ligamentum arcua- tum proprius, where it rests on the psoas muscle. The lumbar ganglia vary in number, being sometimes but three, at others as many as five. They, with their branches of communication, lie along the inner border of the psoas muscle : each sends inwards branches which ramify round the aorta; and outwards, some which communicate with