DURA MATER—CKRE15RAL SINUSES. 033 at their conflux:—a. The superior longitudinal sinus, com- mencing at the crista galli, extends from before backwards, in the upper border of the falx, gradually increasing in size as it proceeds. Across its cavity, which is triangular, several bands (ehordce Wil- lisii) extend obliquely. The veins from the cerebral surface open into this sinus in such a way that the apertures of the greater number of them are directed from behind forwards, contrary to the direc- tion of the current within it, so that though regurgitation may take place into the sinus, it does not follow that it shall extend into the brain, as the blood in the sinus, by its pressure, will close the mouths of the veins, by reason of their valvular structure, b. The inferior longitudinal sinus is very small; it runs in the concave border of the falx, and terminates in the straight sinus, c. The straight sinus lies in the base of the falx, and runs directly back- wards to the conflux: in addition to the preceding, it receives the vence Galeni, which return the blood from the lateral ventricles. d. The occipital sinuses are two small canals extended from the foramen magnum to the conflux inclosed in the falx cerebelli. e. The lateral sinuses, two in number, curve downwards and for- wards along the occipital grooves, corresponding with the exter- nal border of the tentorium cerebelli. Commencing at the con- flux where they receive the blood from the other sinuses, they convey it to the jugular fossae, where they transmit it to the jugular veins. The following sinuses lie in the base of the skull: — a. The two cavernous sinuses are placed one at each side of the sella Turcica, between the anterior clinoid process and the margin of the pars petrosa. The dura mater in this situation is divided into two lamellae, the one being deeply seated and in close apposition with the bone, and the other stretched between the bony processes just mentioned, the irregular interval between them forming the sinus: into this opens the ophthalmic vein from before, and the circular sinus on its inner side open: along its outer wall are placed the nerves which proceed to the orbit, and at its inside the carotid artery, invested by a reflection of its lining membrane, b. The circular sinus surrounds the pituitary gland, and opens into the cavernous sinuses at each side. c. The superior petrous sinuses, com- mencing on each side at the summit of the pars petrosa, where they