ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. SOS it is gradually lost. The oval aperture here described, from its transmitting the saphena vein, is called the saphenous opening, (foramen saphenum) and its curved external mar- gin has been named by Mr. Burns the falciform process. 323. The description here given of this opening, and the statements concerning the manner in which the exter- nal and inferior parts of its border are folded and reflected, may be verified by dissecting it in the following way. We shall suppose for a moment that the skin has been carefully removed from the upper part of the fascia, so as to exhibit its two parts. The opening however is not defined, nor is its border distinctly seen. This is usually ascribed to the existence of a thin lamella, which is laid across the open- ing, and connected at each side with its borders. It is evi- dently of a reticular texture, and pierced by numerous small foramina, which transmit the superficial vessels, and thence named fascia crihriformis. It is considered as a part of the fascia lata, which however cannot be the fact; for the lower border of the opening is reflected down upon the sheath of the vessels, the external one is also reflected outwards upon it, whilst the inner part is prolonged altogether behind them. Hence no part of the membrane can be extended upwards in this situation. If the saphena vein be cut across an inch below the opening, and the fascia carefully divided by a transverse incision a little below its margin, the reflected layer can be observed as it passes down on the sheath of the vessels. Again, if from this incision another be made at right angles with it, and carried up to Poupart’s liga- ment, the thin, reflected lamella sent outwards from what is called the falciform process, will be distinctly seen. If then, by the reflection of this border on the vessels, and the trans- mission of the pubic part behind them, the whole of the fascia is as it were disposed of, it follows that no third part remains to cover the opening, or to form what has been termed the cribriform lamella. What this really is will ap- pear when we shall have examined the superficial fascia of the abdomen.