THE FEMUR. 71 wards the extremities of the bone than at the centre. Both the lateral surfaces are compressed and somewhat flat; but it may be observed that the external is broader than the internal, particularly towards the superior part. The ante- rior is separated, though not in a very marked degree, from the lateral surfaces by two lines, which may be traced up- wards from the condyles, towards the superior extremity of the bone; but posteriorly at the union of the two lateral surfaces, is a rough and prominent line, the linea aspera, which gives attachment to several muscles. The linea aspera is most prominent towards the centre of the bone, and when examined with attention, presents two lips and a rough interstice, each giving attachment to muscles. Above and below this part it subsides as it were towards the extremities, and also becomes bifurcated. The two superior divisions or branches of the line terminate, the one (internal and somewhat shorter) at the lesser trochanter, the other, external, nt the greater trochanter. The inferior divisions spread more asunder, and terminate at the con- dyles, enclosing between them and the margins of these pro- minences, a flat triangular portion of the bone, which cor- responds with the popliteal vessels. Towards the superior part of the linea aspera may be observed a foramen directed from below upwards, intended to transmit the medullary vessels. The superior extremity presents three eminences, differ- ing in size, form, and direction. Two of these give attach- ment to muscles, the third constitutes the articular head of the bone. The first of these is called the trochanter major, which is continuous with the external surface of the bone, and nearly in a line with its axis. This apophysis, quadri- lateral in its form, is convex and rough on its external sur- face ; the internal one, of less extent, presents at its base a pit, which receives the external rotator muscles ; the supe- rior, or terminal border is flat and straight, and the poste- rior thick and rounded. At the posterior aspect of the