FLEXORS OF THE THUMB. 393 The fleshy mass that forms the ball of the thumb, con- sists of four muscles, which are inserted into its metacarpal bone and first phalanx. 406. a. The abductor pollicis is a flat, thin muscle, placed immediately beneath the skin. It arises from the annular ligament of the wrist, and from the os trape- zium, and proceeds outwards and forwards, to be in- serted, by a short thin tendon, into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, at its radial border. The muscle is superficial in its entire extent, and rests on the opponens pollicis. 407. b. The opponens pollicis is placed beneath the pre- ceding, but its borders project laterally, so as to be percep- tible at each side of it. The fibres of the muscle arise from the annular ligament, and from the os trapezium, and thence proceed outwards and forwards, to be inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, at its radial border. One surface is covered by the abductor and integument, the other rests on the short flexor. 408. c. The flexor brevis pollicis is larger than either of the preceding muscles, beneath which it is placed. Its car- pal extremity is divided into two processes or heads, the interval between which transmits the tendon of the long flexor. One of these, which is anterior, and therefore super- ficial, relatively to the other, arises from the inner surface of the annular ligament, and from the os trapezium; the other is attached to the os trapezoides and os magnum. The fleshy fibres from these points of origin soon unite to form a single mass, which however again resolves itself into two short processes, which are inserted into the op- posite borders of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. In each of these tendinous heads a sesamoid bone is placed, where it passes over the first joint of the thumb. 409. d. The adductor pollicis is placed still more deeply than the short flexor, being extended from the metacarpal bone that sustains the middle finger, to the base of the first