345 HERNIA CRURAL,—OPERATION. consideration of the place at which the division should be made, and the manner of making it. The finger being in- troduced into the sack, and passed upwards along its ante- rior and inner side, for the purpose of ascertaining the seat of the stricture, it will be found, according to the testimony of our highest authorities, either at the arched border of the saphenous opening, at the edge of Poupart’s ligament, or in the neck of the hernial sack. Should a stricture be found at the border of the opening in the fascia lata, a bis- toury may be introduced on the finger, and its division effected by directing the edge of the instrument obliquely upwards and inwards. This part can be the seat of stricture only when the tumour is sufficiently large to turn forwards and upwards, and it not unfrequently happens, that though it be divided, still the reduction of the intestine cannot be effected. Another stricture must then exist higher up, in one or other of the situations above indicated, to remove which different modes of proceeding have been recommended, all however, having a common object, viz., to widen the open- ing through which the intestine had escaped in the first in- stance, and which it necessarily must repass whilst it is being restored. The superior boundary of the crural ring, being Poupart’s ligament, the internal one that of Gimber- nat, the proposed end must be attained by the division of one or other. Sir Astley Cooper is of opinion that Gim- bernat’s ligament cannot be the seat of stricture; for, “ if strangulated femoral hernia be examined in the dead body, and that ligament cut through, the hernia is not liberated by such a division.” If it be on these grounds concluded that the stricture is situated at the border of Poupart’s liga- ment, or in the neck of the sack, the same incision will ne- cessarily divide both. But in what direction should it be made ? This question must be determined by a reference to the position of the vessels, or parts, which lie contiguous to the margin of the ring. If the incision were directed upwards, in a male subject, the spermatic vessels and vas