ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 232 flat fleshy mass, which becomes united to the posterior bor- der, as well as the two surfaces of the tendon of the flexor longus at its point of division. It may be observed, that the fibres of the accessory muscle, where they enclose the tendon of the long flexor, are tendinous, and so arranged as to form a groove, within which it is lodged. The lumbricales (les quatre planti-sous-phalangiens, Chauss.) are four small tapering muscles which arise from the tendons of the flexor communis digitorum at their point of division; from whence they pass forwards to the inner side of each of the lesser toes, and become united to the tendinous expansions of the extensor muscles on the dorsal surface of the phalanges. When these muscles are removed, the third layer is ex- posed filling up the deep irregular part of the sole of the foot. 257. The flexor brevis pollicis (tarso-sous-phalangien du pouce, Chauss.) single and pointed behind, divided into two parts or heads in front, it arises by a flat tendinous process, which extends along the greater part of its upper surface, from the inner border of the cuboid bone, slightly from the contiguous margin of the external cuneiform bone, and from the tendinous fibres sent into the sole of the foot from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. These origins can be best perceived when the muscle is cut across, and detached carefully from before backwards. The fleshy mass divides into two heads, which are inserted, one into the inner, the other into the external border of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. But before reaching the point of insertion, an intimate union is established be- tween it and the abductor pollicis on the one side, and ad- ductor on the other. The tendon of the flexor longus runs along the interval between the heads of this muscle. 258. The adductor pollicis pedis, is situated obliquely in the sole of the foot, forming a thick fleshy mass. It arises from the middle and external cuneiform bones, from the