THE STERN O-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION. 159 the inner extremity of the clavicle, downwards and inwards, upon the surface of the sternum. It is broad, and consists of parallel fibres, and corresponds internally with the sy- novial membrane of the articulation, externally with the sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. 2. The posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, of similar conformation with the last, but not so broad or strongly marked, is placed between the same bones lying at the tho- racic aspect of the joint. Its posterior surface is in relation with the sterno-hyoideus and sterno-thyroideus muscles. 3. The inter-clavicular ligament is a dense fasciculus of fibres, placed transversely between the contiguous extre- mities of the clavicles. Its fibres do not pass directly across from one to the other; they dip down, are attached to the upper margin of the sternum, by which it is render- ed concave from side to side. 4. The costo-clavicular ligament (ligamentum rhom- bo'ides, Weit. Soemm.) does not properly form part of the articulation; yet it contributes materially to retain the cla- vicle in its situation. It is attached inferiorly to the carti- lage of the first rib near its sternal end, and passes obliquely backwards and upwards, to be fixed to a roughness at the under surface of the clavicle. 5. The inter-articular cartilage, nearly circular in its form, and thicker at its border than at the centre* is inter- posed between the articulating surfaces of the sternum and clavicle. Towards its superior and posterior part it is at- tached to the margin of the clavicle, and at the opposite point with the cartilage of the first rib. In the latter situation it is thin, and somewhat prolonged, so that the inferior bor- der of the clavicle rests upon it. In this articulation, as in that of the lower jaw, there are two synovial membranes, of which one is reflected over the sternal end of the clavicle and adjacent surface of the fibro-cartilage, the other is dis- posed similarly between the cartilage and the articulating surface of the sternum.