387 SUPINATOR RADII LONGUS. quadratus, which take their fixed points, the one on the humerus, the other on the ulna, and draw the radius inwards across the latter bone. Should the pronator teres, after having effected so much, continue its action, it becomes virtually a flexor, and will assist the other muscles in bending the fore-arm on the arm. So also the flexors of the fingers, after having bent the phalanges to- wards the palm, begin to act on the wrist, and then contribute to the flexion of the fore-arm by means of the mechanical advantage they derive by passing under the annular ligament of the wrist. The flexores carpi too, after having bent the wrist, become, sub- sequently, flexors of the fore-arm. The flexion of the phalanges is obviously effected by the superficial and deep common flexors, and by the flexor pollicis. The muscles placed along the outer side of the fore-arm, are the supinator radii longus, and brevis, the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior. 394. The supinator radii longus is the most prominent muscle of this set, and lies upon the radial border of the arm, extended from nearly the middle of the humerus to the end of the radius. It arises from the external condy- loid ridge of the humerus, nearly as high up as the inser- tion of the deltoid, where it is interposed between the brachi- alis anticus and the external inter-muscular septum, to which also its fibres are attached. The rounded, fleshy belly thus formed, descends upon the anterior and outer border of the arm, and, about its middle, ends in a flat tendon, which, continuing the same course, is inserted into the ex- ternal border of the radius, close to the base of its styloid process. This muscle is covered only by the skin and fas- cia; it rests on the humerus, extensor carpi radialis (lon- gior and brevior), and the supinator radii brevis. The inner surface is in contact, above the bend of the elbow, with the brachialis anticus, from which it is separated only by the spiral nerve; along the arm, it is in contact with the radial artery and nerve. 395. The extensor carpi radialis longior is partly co- vered by the preceding muscle, but its external border pro- 2 c 2