ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 614 front, and concave behind, so as to receive the other, whose border is round and convex. The situation of the pituitary gland is peculiar: it is interposed between the two lamellae of the fibro-serous membrane. The dura mater will be found to line the surface of the bone on which the gland rests, but the arachnoid membrane, after having formed a funnel-shaped process round the infundi- bulum, is reflected off from it at its lower extremity, and stretched across the upper surface of the gland until it reaches the clinoid processes, where it becomes continuous with the inner lamella of the fibro-serous membrane. 658. Immediately behind the tuber cinereura are placed two small bodies, called corpora albicantia (mamillaria, pisiformia). Their size is about that of a pea, but they are not quite round, being slightly compressed on three sides. Placed in apposition with one another, they are connected by a delicate process of grey matter, of which substance the greater part of their mass consists; they are, however, invested by a lamella of white matter, de- rived from the anterior pillars of the fornix, of which they may be regarded as the termination. Behind these bodies is situated a thin lamella of white substance, which is pierced by a number of foramina, for the transmission of vessels, and called locus perforatus, and sometimes pons Tarim. Its shape is triangular, the sides being formed by the crura cerebri, the base by the mammillary bodies, the apex being at the border of the pons Varolii : it forms part of the floor of the third ventricle. The crura cerebri are two thick rounded bodies, about three-fourths of an inch long, and situated towards the centre of the base of the brain, from which they project rather prominently. They are extended from the pons Varolii forwards and up- wards to the under surface of the hemispheres, into which they seem as if inserted. They are in close contact be- hind, but diverge so as to leave an interval, which is filled by the locus perforatus.