ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 456 fleshy bellies, united by an intervening aponeurosis. The posterior, fleshy portion arises from the superior oblique ridge of the occipital bone, extending from its protuber- ance forwards to the mastoid process. The fibres proceed forwards and upwards, and soon terminate, by becoming continuous with the aponeurosis. The aponeurosis con- sists, for the most part, of longitudinal fibres, which form a plane corresponding with the roof of the skull, over which it slides, and ends by giving attachment to the an- terior fleshy part of the muscle. The fibres, of which the latter is composed, extend downwards and forwards on the frontal bone, and become blended at the root of the nose with the pyramidalis nasi, and along the orbital arch, with the orbicularis palpebrarum, and corrugator supercilii. The posterior attachment of the muscle corresponds in extent with those of the trapezius, splenius capitis, and sterno- mastoid ; the anterior with the superior margin of the orbit. The external border of the aponeurosis presents an arched margin, which overlaps that of the temporal muscle, but over the roof of the skull, the aponeurotic expansions from the 'two muscles are united, so as to form a continuous lamella. The muscles of the external ear shall be described with that organ. 496. The •pyramidalis nasi rests on the nasal bone, and appears like a prolongation of the preceding muscle, with whose fibres it is intimately connected at its origin, as well as with those of the corresponding muscle. The two pyra- midal muscles diverge as they descend, leaving an angular interval between them, and each terminates in a thin fibrous lamella, that covers the side of the nose. The fleshy fibres are also connected with those of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Its chief effect seems to be that of giving a fixed point of attachment to the frontal muscle. 497. The orbicularis palpebrarum encircles the base, or external border of the orbit, forming a flat elliptic plane, that rests on the eye-lids, the eye-brow, and upper part of