ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 116 border is rough, for its attachment to the nasal bone. The posterior presents a groove, which is completed into a canal by a similar one in the os unguis, for the lachrymal sac. The part of the external surface, immediately above the second and third molar teeth, is elevated into a rough emi- nence, (imalar tuberosity) for its articulation with the malar bone. Anterior and inferior to this is observed a fossa, (fossa canina,) which gives attachment to the levator an- guli oris. Between this fossa and the margin of the orbit is the infra-orbitar foramen, which transmits the superior maxillary nerve. Behind the malar tuberosity the surface is slightly excavated, and forms part of the zigomatic fossa: towards the posterior border it is plain, and forms one side of the spheno-maxillary fissure; and, at its junction with the orbitar plate, is situated the opening of the infra- orbitar canal. This surface is pierced by a number of fo- ramina, which transmit the dental nerves; it terminates by a tuberosity, which projects behind the last molar tooth. The inner surface of its posterior border is rough, for its attachment to the tuberosity of the palate bone, and pre- sents also a slight groove, contributing to the formation of the ‘posterior palatine canal, which transmits the descend- ing palatine branches from Meckel’s ganglion. From the superior border of the external surface the or- bitar plate projects inwards, forming the floor of the orbit; its surface is smooth, being merely interrupted by the groove which leads to the infra-orbitar canal. The horizontal or palate plate of the bone projects in- wards, forming the roof of the mouth, and the floor of the nares. Its nasal surface is concave from side to side, and smooth; externally it is continuous with the body of the bone; internally presents a rough surface, which is articu- lated with the corresponding bone, and surmounted by a ridge, which completes the septum narium by articulating with the vomer and nasal cartilage; beside it is the foramen, leading into the anterior palatine canal. The inferior sur-