107 THE FRONTAL BONE. caecum,, from its having been supposed to be merely a cul- de-sac, but it is in reality pervious, and lodges a small spur- like process of the dura mater, and transmits a vein, which enters the sinus from the nasal fossae. The inferior surface of the orbitar processes is smooth and concave, the superior is convex, and marked by depres- sions corresponding with the cerebral convolutions. They are separated by a deep excavation, which receives within it the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and round its margins are several cells which complete the cavities lodged within the lateral parts of the last-named bone. In this margin may also be observed two foramina (anterior and posterior orbitar) which are common to the frontal and eth- moid bones, as their contiguous margins contribute to their formation. The anterior one transmits the nasal twig of the ophthalmic nerve, and the anterior ethmoidal artery; the other the posterior ethmoidal artery and vein. The orbitar plates are bounded by the angular processes, of which the external is the most prominent. Near the inner one is a slight depression for the cartilaginous pulley of the trochlearis muscle; near the outer a depression for the lodgement of the lachrymal gland—the external side of this process is slightly hollowed, and forms part of the temporal fossa. The frontal articulates with twelve bones, superiorly with the two parietal, laterally and behind with the sphenoid, inferiorly with the ethmoid; with the nasal bone by the nasal process, and with the ossa unguis ; with the ascending process of the supe- rior maxillary bones, and with the malar bones. The mode of articulation differs in different parts of its circumference. Thus the superior border is found to overlap and rest on the pari- etal bones, whilst towards the lateral and inferior parts the exterior table of the bone is bevilled off, and is covered in by the parietal. The inferior border, straight and squamous, is in a manner inserted between the margins of the two aim of the sphenoid bone, with each of which it articulates. Tt