539 PERITONEUM. brane, still these vessels can reach their destination without piercing its cavity. The fact however is, that certain parts of each organ are left uncovered, and these will be found to corres- pond with the points at which the membrane is reflected to and from it, whilst the vessels lie between the folds or duplicatures into which it is thrown, by being thus reflected, and so are conducted to their destinations. Were it possible to dissect the peritonaeum from off the viscera, as we can from the abdominal parietes, with- out laceration or injury, so that it would admit of being inflated, it would represent a balloon, and we could give demonstra- tive proof of its being, as above stated, a shut sack, the viscera being exterior to its proper cavity. Again, by allowing the air partially to escape, we may, as the tension is being relaxed, place the different viscera, with their vessels attached, in their respective situations, so as to give to each its covering, whilst the folds into which it is thrown, as it reflected from one to the other, will serve to lodge and transmit the vessels. This would obviously be con- clusive as to the fact; but the delicacy of the membrane is such, and its adhesion to the viscera so intimate, that it is impossible to detach it to any extent, which constrains us to resort to the expe- dient of tracing successively its folds and reflexions, so as to shew its continuity throughout, knowing, that from whatever point we start, we shall ultimately reach the same again, just as we would when tracing the circumference of a circle. To attain the end here indicated, several modes of proceeding have been adopted from time to time, each possessing, no doubt, some advantages. The fol- lowing will be found to suffice for the attainment of the proposed end ; whilst pursuing it, we shall consider the membrane as di- visible into three zones, or portions, corresponding with the regional division of the abdomen, which has been indicated (p. 318). It may not be amiss, previously to entering on this proceeding, to point out the way in which the membrane should be exposed and exhibited. After the abdominal muscles have been dissected, the transversalis should be carefully separated, commencing over the iliac region, and so proceeding up to the costal cartilages, and backwards, deeply into the lumbar region. The same should be done at the opposite side ; but, along the middle line, part of the aponeurosis must be allowed to remain, in consequence of its firm adhesion to the membrane. When these- preliminaries have been