THE HUMERUS. 91 the deltoid muscle, beneath which runs the oblique depres- sion already noticed, as giving transmission to the musculo- spiral nerve and the accompanying artery. At the superior extremity of the bone may be observed a large hemispherical eminence, covered with cartilage in the fresh state, and directed backwards and inwards to the glenoid cavity of the scapula, with which it articulates ; this is called the head of the humerus. It is supported by a slightly depressed part, better marked superiorly than in the opposite direction, and denominated the neck of the bone. Somewhat externally to the head are two smaller eminences, which, from their relative size, are named the greater and lesser tuberosities; the former, external and posterior in its situation, convex in its outline, and marked on its upper border by three flat surfaces for the insertion of the external rotator muscles. The other tuberosity, smaller but more prominent, gives attachment to the sub- scapularis muscle. They are separated by the bicipital groove. The inferior extremity is flattened and somewhat twisted from behind forward, its greatest diameter is trans- verse ; it presents internally a considerable projection, the inner condyle, which is inclined backwards, and gives attach- ment to the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint, and to a tendon common to the greater number of the anterior mus- cles of the foramen. Externally is situated another smaller process {the external condyle) to which are attached the external lateral ligament, and a tendon common to the muscles of the posterior and external surfaces of the fore- arm. Between the condyles is placed the inferior articular surface, which is inclined somewhat forwards. Proceeding- in the enumeration of the parts which enter into its compo- sition from the radial to the ulnar side, we observe a round- ed eminence placed rather on the anterior surface of the bone, and articulating with a cavity observable on the su- perior extremity of the radius, a slight groove or depression corresponding with the circumference of this eminence, a