175 THE HIP JOINT. for the lodgement of the structure, which has been called, the synovial gland. The connecting means in this articu- lation, are three ligaments, viz. a capsular, cotyloid, and in- ter-articular ligament, together with a synovial membrane. 169. The capsular ligament, dense and firm in its tex- ture, represents a fibrous tube, whose direction is down- wards and outwards; being attached by one extremity round the margin of the cotyloid cavity; by the other to the neck of the femur. Its superior circumference in the greater part of its extent, is attached to the bone, within two or three lines of the cotyloid ligament, but opposite the notch where the margin of the cavity is deficient, it is at- tached to the transverse ligament. Its inferior circumfe- rence is inserted in front into the oblique line leading from one trochanter to the other, but superiorly and behind, its fibres are implanted into the neck of the bone, within a quarter of an inch of the trochanteric fossa, and about the same distance from the posterior inter-trochanteric line. The ligament is most dense and firm towards the superior and anterior part of the articulation; inferiorly, its fibres are comparatively thin. A firm fasciculus of fibres extends ob- liquely downwards in front of the joint intimately connected with the capsule, being calculated to strengthen it, hence it is called its accessory ligament; but as one extremity of it is attached to the anterior inferior spinous process of the ileum, the other to the anterior trochanteric line, it may be called the ileo-femoral ligament. The joint is materially strengthened by the muscles surrounding it, particularly by the gluteus minimus, the external rotators, and the psoas and iliacus. 170. The cotyloid ligament is a fibro-cartilaginous ring placed round the cavity, and serving the purpose of in- creasing its depth, and completing its border, where it is de- ficient. The broader part of this structure is attached to the bone, its thin edge is free, and both its surfaces are covered by the synovial membrane, the external being in contact with