OCCIPITAL ARTERY. 478 rests on the rectus capitis anticus, close to the surface of the pharynx, and is directed towards the foramen lacerum an- terius, where it divides into three or four ramusculi. We may, from a consideration of their direction, divide its branches into three sets. 1. Those which pass inwards, to the pharynx, usually three in number, corresponding with the three constrictors ; the two infe- rior ones ramify in the muscular stricture merely ; the superior branch, in addition to supplying the upper constrictor, sends de- licate ramifications to the Eustachian tube, and soft palate, some of them extending even to the posterior nares. 2. The external branches consist of small twigs, which are given to the first cervical ganglion, to some of the cerebral nerves, as they issue from the skull, and to the conglobate glands of the neck. 3. The terminating branches are those which pass through the foramina, at the base of the skull ; one or two of them accom- pany the internal jugular vein, and ramify in the dura mater. Another passes through the foramen lacerum anterius, and is simi- larly disposed of. 525. 5. The occipital artery runs a long and tortuous course deeply at the upper part of the neck and base of the skull, and finally arches up towards the vertex, ramify- ing beneath the pericranium. This vessel passes back- wards, from the carotid, opposite either the lingual or fascial artery, and takes the direction of the posterior belly of the digastricus, to reach the interval between the atlas and mastoid process, running in a groove behind the latter. In this course it crosses the jugular vein, and lingual nerve, the latter appearing to hook round it, and is covered by the sterno-mastoideus. Behind this muscle, it passes under the trachelo-mastoid, the splenius, and complexus, where it is separated from the occipital bone by the fibres of the recti and obliqui muscles. The artery then changes its di- rection, and runs upwards, piercing the cranial attachment of the trapezius, and mounts beneath the integument, freely