MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 453 the ary taeno'id to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, two bands, which, if regarded as means of connexion, may be termed the aritaeno-thyroid ligaments, and are placed one beneath the other. The inferior pair of fasciculi, more strongly marked than the others, consist of fibres stretched forwards from the anterior border of the arytseno'id cartilages, near their bases. These converge, and meet at an angle, where they are implanted into the posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage, at the middle of its perpendicular depth. These ligaments, with the base of the cartilages to which they are attached posteriorly, bound a triangular interval, called rima glottidis, and are, from their connexion with the special function of the organ, called the proper chordae vo- cales. The superior bands consist merely of a duplicature of the lining membrane ; they contain no fibrous structure within them, and are therefore less tense, and farther apart than the others. They are noticed chiefly because their appearance is constant, and also because they form the upper boundaries of two oval intervals placed between them and the preceding pair, which are named the sinuses, or ventricles of the larynx. 489. The proper muscles of the larynx may be divided into two sets, viz. dilators and contractors of the rima glottidis. One pair of the dilators has been already de- scribed, as being seated outside, viz. the crico-thyroidei. The others are the crico-arytceno'idei postici. These rest on the broadest part of the cricoid cartilage, covering by their origin the whole of it, except the middle perpendicu- lar line. Their fibres converge, as they proceed upward and outwards, to be inserted by a narrow process into the bases of the arytenoid cartilages by their external borders. They are merely covered by the mucous membrane. 490. The contractors are the following: 491. The crico-arytcenoidei later ales are extended ob- liquely backwards and upwards, from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage on each side, to the base of the arytae-