605 NERVOUS SYSTEM. however, infer that their filaments interlace one with another so as to form a net-work, by which a complete and free communication is established between them. Again, when we examine the central parts, we find that each lateral half is connected with the other by certain transverse bands, which are disposed along the middle line, and termed commissures. On this union and con- nexion between the different parts of the nervous system, by which they become intimately blended at their peri- phery, as well as towards the centre, the individuality of the animal essentially depends. 644. The central parts of the nervous system are deeply seated, being enclosed within the spinal canal and cavity of the cranium. The nervous cords, too, are in a great de- gree withdrawn from the influence of external agencies by the situations in which they are placed during their course. Their final terminations only approach the sur- face, where, by being expanded on the internal and ex- ternal teguments, they communicate to these parts their sentient and tactile properties. 645. The nervous system is made up of two substances, readily distinguishable by their colour, texture, and con sistence. One is greyish, or rather a pale ash-colour, and thence named substantia drierea; and as in the brain it forms an investment for the white substance, it is usually termed corticulis. The other substance is of a pure white colour, and from the relation just indicated, is called sub- stantia medullaris. It cannot, however, be said with pro- priety that the one is external, or the other internal, as their position is reversed in different parts of the system. The grey substance invests the cerebral hemispheres, and forms at the same time several masses disposed in their in- terior, but in the medulla spinalis it is altogether deeply seated. The white substance, on the contrary, is enclosed by the grey in the brain, but becomes the cortex in the medulla. The cineritious substance is more soft and