545 PERITONAEUM. of peritonaeum that lies loosely over the forepart of the small in- testines. It consists, at the lower part, of four lamellae, that is to say, below the transverse colon, inasmuch as its two posterior layers go to form the transverse meso-colon. The lesser omentum (epiploon hepato-gastricnm) extends from the transverse fissure of the liver to the concave border of the stomach, enclosing the hepatic vessels. At its right margin, the membrane is folded so that both surfaces are continuous, whilst the left extends over to the oesophagus. It has already been observed, that it is difficult at first sight to conceive how the different vessels can reach the viscera without piercing the peritonaeum, though the trunks from which they pro- ceed lie behind them. The aorta lies on the spine, behind the peritonaeum; the kidneys, placed at the sides, are also behind that membrane; there, therefore, can be no difficulty in perceiving how their vessels reach, them. The mesentery, consisting of two lamellae, is reflected from the spine close to the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, which is thus placed between its layers. The inferior mesenteric artery, after running behind the peritonaeum to the pelvis, lies between the sacrum and rectum, in the fold of the meso-rectum: the colic vessels are inclosed in the meso-cola. It remains for us first to consider, how the coeliac axis and its vessels lie with regard to the membrane, which can only be done with effect by examining the formation of what is called Winslow’s foramen, which, properly speaking, is a canal, or tube, not a perforation, as the term foramen would imply. If the finger be passed close by the neck of the gall-bladder, be- neath the free border of the lesser omentum, the two lamellre of the lesser omentum, with the hepatic vessels enclosed, will lie upon the finger, and the ascending layer of the transverse meso- colon behind it. If an effort be made to pass the finger down behind the stomach, it is at once checked by the manner in which the membrane is there reflected backwards and upwards. Just below the point of reflection stands the coeliac axis, so that its hepatic and coronary branches, by passing over this reflected part, can get between the layers of the lesser omentum, and so reach their destinations. Now, the splenic artery runs along the pancreas, which has been shewn to be posterior to the ascending 2 N '