THE BLADDER—ITS STRUCTURE. 521 of the ureters to the urethra, it is also uncovered, and on the sides, from the vasa deferentia forwards to the surface of the pelvis. 577. The base and neck are the parts which deserve the greater share of attention. The base is that depending part of the viscus which rests on the rectum. Attached to it we find the vesicular seminales, and vasa deferentia, so dis- posed as to leave between them an interval, in which the bladder is. separated from the rectum only by some cellular tissue. This space is triangular in its form, the sides being formed by the vesiculae converging to the prostate, whilst the base corresponds with the interval between the ureters. It is by no means so extensive when the parts are “ in situ,” as may be inferred from viewing them after they are dis- turbed. The vesiculae are in close contact for some lines before they reach the base of the prostate, and as the pe- ritonaeum is being reflected off the bladder at the entrance of the ureters, it forms a curved fold, whose convexity in- clines forwards in the interval between them. The neck of the bladder is usually compared to a truncated cone, longer below and at the sides than above. In infancy it is oblique, its direction being downwards and forwards, but in the adult it becomes almost horizontal. The posterior part of it rests on the rectum, the rest being enclosed by the prostate. 578. The inner surface of the bladder is lined by mucous membrane, continuous with that which is prolonged up- wards along the ureters, and downwards through the urethra. When collapsed it presents throughout the body and fundus slight rugae, or waving lines, which exist no longer in the distended condition. But towards the lower part, and corresponding with what we described, externally, as the base, a smooth and slightly raised surface appears, in which no rugae occur under any circumstances. The shape of this part is that of a triangle, its two posterior angles being indicated by the openings of the ureters, and