VASCULAR SYSTEM—ITS DEVELOPMENT. 593 between the greater and lesser circulation, the dark and red blooded system; and, finally, the proportion subsisting between the number, size, and capacity of the different orders of vessels at different periods of life. It is difficult to determine with precision which part of the vascu- lar system is first developed. But if the analogy between birds and the higher animals be sufficiently close to allow of an inference, de- duced from observations on the development of the one to be applied to the other, it may be stated that the veins of the vesiculaumbilicalis are the first which become manifest; for the vesicula umbilicalis in the human embryo corresponds with the membrane of the yolk, or the yolk-bag in birds, and it is demonstrable, that the veins which issue from the latter are the first that are developed. The vesi- cula umbilicalis is a minute membranous sack, placed between the chorion and amnios, and greater in size, relatively to the foetus, the earlier it is examined. It appears to be formed before the new being, which in a manner rests upon it, the vesicula being closely in contact with its anterior surface. The cavity of the vesicle most probably communicates with that of the intestinal canal, but there is evidently a connexion by vessels between it and those of the mesentery up to the second month: these, consisting of an artery and a vein, extend in the first instance from the vesicula to the mesenteric vessels. At the period just referred to they reach no farther than the parietes of the abdomen, and finally they disappear altogether. From their mode of connexion, these ves- sels are called vasa omphctlo-mesenterica. At the earliest period at which either structure or vessels be- come perceptible in the chick, some small rounded vesicles, or rather spaces, are seen in the membrane of the yolk, which soon become filled with a clear and viscid fluid. Separated from one another at first, they represent so many islets, or rather a chain of vesicles, gradually increasing in number, until they form a net- work, which soon becomes filled with blood in place of the fluid previously contained. The minute radicles thus formed gra- dually unite to form branches, which coalesce and form a trunk— the omphalo-mesenteric vein. These are properly but rudi- mentary vessels ; they have no proper coats, they are merely canals hollowed, as it were, in the texture of the membrane, like 2 Q