343 HERNIA CRURAL, TAXIS. the abdomen, down to its first turn, it had been lying on the pubic portion of that fascia? The impediment to its de- scent in that way is produced, partly by the manner in which the superficial fascia is connected to the margin of the saphenous opening, but chiefly by the superficial epigas- tric vessels which run on its surface. With these the tu- mour comes into contact, after emerging through the open- ing, and, though by the firmness of their connexion with the deep vessels, they resist its descent, they offer no obsta- cle to its ascent, so that during this part of its course it ne- cessarily passes up between the superficial vessels and fas- cia, w'hich lie in front of it, and the fascia lata lying behind. 346. To restore to its natural situation an intestine so placed, it becomes necessary to make it retrace its steps as it were, describing successively, but in a retrograde course, the different turns it had made in its passage. With this view, after having adjusted the body so as to relax the ab- dominal muscles, and to take off all tension from Poupart’s ligament, the patient being placed with the affected side close to the side of his bed, the surgeon draws the tumour downwards into the hollow at the upper part of the thigh, so as to bring it opposite the saphenous opening. This be- ing done, it should be pressed backwards, as if into that aperture, and upwards, with a slight inclination outwards, so as to avoid any impediment that may be presented by Gimbernat’s ligament. Should these, and the other usual expedients fail, the operation must be resorted to, even still more speedily than in cases of inguinal hernia. When commencing the operation, the first step (after the body has been properly placed) consists in dividing the skin by a transverse incision carried over the middle of the tumour from one side to the other, parallel with Poupart’s ligament, and of course below it. This incision may be made by pinching the skin into a fold parallel with the femoral ves- sels, and cutting down to its base, after which, when al- lowed to return to its natural situation, it will be found di-