255 POPLITEAL ARTERY—ITS BRANCHES. 1. The superior articular arteries; of these the internal one turns round the inner side of the femur, just above the inner con- dyle, and divides into two branches, one of which supplies the lower part of the vastus internus, the other ramifies in front of the knee joint: 2, the external one passes outwards above the cor- responding condyle, divides into branches, some of which are lost in the vastus muscle, whilst the rest reach the front of the articu- lation. 3. The middle or azygos branch passes from the anterior surface of the popliteal artery, pierces the posterior ligament of the joint, and divides into minute ramifications for the supply of the crucial ligaments and the other structures within the articula- tion. 4. The internal branch of the inferior articular arteries passes downwards and inwards below the corresponding tuberosity of the tibia, lying between the bone and the internal lateral liga- ment ; its branches ramify on the anterior and inner part of the joint, as far as the patella and its ligament: 5, the external one takes its course outwards under cover of the external head of the gastrocnemius in the first instance, and afterwards under the ex- ternal lateral ligament of the knee, and the tendon of the biceps muscle. It thus reaches the fore-part of the joint, and near the bor- der of the patella divides into branches, of which one descends along the ligament of the patella to communicate with the inferior articular artery of the opposite side, and with the recurrent branch from the anterior tibial; the other ascends and anastomoses with the superior articular arteries. In a well injected limb, the four arti- cular branches form at the front and sides of the joint a complete mesh by their ramifications, all of which freely communicate with one another, and several of them may be traced into the substance of the bones through the foramina on their surface. Dissection. The subject being turned on its face, an incision should be made through the skin, along the middle of the popliteal space, extending from the lower third of the thigh, as far as the upper fourth of the leg, which corresponds with the length of the popliteal artery. A transverse incision should be made right across this at each extremity ; the flaps thus marked out being reflected, and the fascia exposed, this membrane is to be divided and reflected in the same manner. By these means the muscles bounding the popliteal space are exposed. The interval which they enclose is of a quadrilateral figure, two sides being formed