490 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. mastoid muscle, lying on the splenius, and terminates by three or four filaments in the integument of the occiput. 551. 2. The descending superficial branches of the plexus will be seen in the interval between the contiguous borders of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, diverging as they pass down to the lower part of the neck. They are embedded in a considerable quantity of cellular tissue, and as they diverge to their destination, one set passes over the clavicle (clavicidares) and supplies the integument on the upper part of the thorax, another on the acromion (acromiales); whilst some lie rather deeply behind the clavicle, being distributed to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoideus, and the serratus magnus. 552. 3. The deep branches are arranged into two divi- sions : one of these consists of two filaments, derived from the second and third nerves, which incline inwards as they descend in front of the sheath of the cervical vessels, to join the descendens noni, and form with it an inverted arch. From the convexity of this arch, which looks downwards, three or four long waving filaments proceed towards the front of the neck, where they are distributed to the sterno- hyoideus and thyroideus, as well as to the omo-hyoideus muscles. The other deep branches are two, which con- verge and unite on the scalenus anticus to form the phrenic nerve. These will be observed to come from the third and fourth nerves ; but they are further increased by a branch derived from the fifth, as it descends to the axillary plexus. The phrenic nerve thus constituted lies on the scalenus an- ticus, and passes into the thorax, to be ultimately distributed to the diaphragm. 553. The neck is inclosed by a membranous investment, similar in its general conformation to that of the extremities, though not so firm in its structure. It is called the cervical fascia. We may observe “ in limine,” that a layer of cel- lular tissue lies beneath the skin, disposed in the same way