077 THE EYE—IRIS. or to consist of its medullary lamella detached by the process re- sorted to in the dissection of the organ; for the yellow spot of Soemmerring is never distinctly seen until Jacob’s membrane is removed; and when this has been effected, we can still shew the retina to consist of its two lamellae. 716. The iris, which presents the coloured circle seen through the transparent cornea, resembles a partition placed vertically so as to divide, but very unequally, the interval between the cornea and the lens into two parts. The iris presents two flat surfaces and two circumferences; on the anterior surface, which is dif- ferently coloured in different individuals, may be observed two concentric rings, of which the external is broader than the infer- nal, but not so deeply coloured: it is marked by several striated lines, which pass from the great circumference inwards to the pu- pil, where they seem to bifurcate. The posterior surface conti- guous to the ciliary processes is covered by a dark pigment similar to that of the choroid. When this is washed off a number of fine lines, or fibres, may be observed, with the assistance of a magnifying power, converging from the greater circumference to the pupil: these are distinct from one another in the former situa- tion, but in the latter are blended so as to form a membranous zone. The great circumference of the iris corresponds with the ciliary ligament, into which it may be said to be inserted; the lesser forms the border of the aperture called the pupil. The iris is abundantly supplied with nerves from the ciliary nerves : it receives the two long ciliary arteries which pass along between the choroid and sclerotica, and the lesser, or anterior ones, which pierce the ciliary ligament from without. These ves- sels approach the iris from four opposite directions, and at its greater circumference freely anastomose, so as to form the larger vascular circle of the iris. From this circle branches pass in- wards, converging, and form at a little distance from the pupil another circle, by a second anastomosis. Finally, from this inner circle minute filaments pass inwards, and seem to terminate at the pupilary margin of the iris. The veins, in general, take the same course as the arteries, but the greater number open into the vasa yortjcosa. The ciliary nerves, after having passed through the