583 AORTA—ITS BRANCHES. reach the aperture which transmits it to the abdomen. Its branches are :— a. Pericarcliacce are some small ramusculi, which ramify on the pericardium. b. Rami bronchiales arise singly, or by a common trunk, from the aorta; one of them sometimes arises from the first intercostal artery. However variable they may be in their origin, their course and distribution are sufficiently constant. They pass for- wards to the root of the lungs, and accompany the bronchi, and their different ramifications. They seem to be the proper nutri- trious vessels of the lungs. c. Rami cesophagece are several in number ; they freely supply the oesophagus, and some of them, by descending upon it, anas- tomose with the branches of the coronary artery of the stomach. d. Rami intercostales vary from eight to ten in number; they arise from the posterior part of the aorta, from which they incline outwards and upwards on the bodies of the vertebrae. They are covered by the pleura, and crossed by the sympathetic nerve. At tire heads of the ribs, they send branches backwards to the dorsal muscles, and also through the inter-vertebral foramina to the spinal canal. The continuation of each artery then passes forwards between the two layers of intercostal muscles, lodged m the groove at the lower border of the corresponding rib, and somewhat beyond the middle of the rib divides into two branches, which run nearly parallel with one another, and anastomose with the anterior intercostal branches of the mammary artery. 635. The aorta, after having passed between the crura of the diaphragm, rests on the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae as far as the fourth, where its division takes place. Its anterior surface is successively in appositiou with the liver, the pancreas, duodenum, and mesentery. The vena cava accompanies it, lying at its right side. The branches of the abdominal aorta are divided into two sets—1, Those which arise from its forepart and singly, viz. the coeliac, superior, and inferior mesenteric. 2. Those which