606 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. vascular than the other, and when minutely injected ap- pears as if entirely composed of vessels. Though the white substance in the natural state is not firmer than jelly, it acquires a great degree of firmness by maceration in spirit, and presents at all times a distinctly fibrous ap- pearance. When examined by the aid of a microscope, both structures are found to consist of a number of glo- bules ; and it is rather probable that the fibrous character results from the globules being disposed in linear striae. 646. The central mass of the nervous system, or, as it is not unusually termed, the cerebro-spinal axis or centre, is made up of several parts, readily distinguishable from one another by their situation, conformation, and structure. 1. The medulla spinalis, or the cord-like prolongation which is lodged in the spinal canal. 2. The cerebral mass, or encephalon, so called from being enclosed within the cranium, and which is subdivided into the cerebrum, cere- bellum, and the cerebral protuberance. 647. We shall commence the description of the cerebro- spinal system with that of the medulla, not only because it is the part first developed in the human embryo, as well as in the animal series, but also because we shall be enabled, by taking the parts in the order of their development, to follow more conveniently than could otherwise be done, the course of the fibres as they ascend from the medulla into the brain and cerebellum. With this view, after having examined the fasciculi of medullary fibres, as they are aggregated together in the superior part of the me- dulla, and where, according to Gall, they may be con- sidered as the primitive or formative fibres of the cranial expansion of the nervous system, we shall trace them up- wards as they receive successive additions in the ganglia of increase, until they are finally evolved into the hemis- pheres of the brain and lobes of the cerebellum. 648. The greater part of the medulla is inclosed within the vertebral canal: the remainder is prolonged into the