526 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. and that it is owing to the fact that the glans, by its greater firmness of texture, draws the lining membrane outwards with it when the urethra is laid open, thereby making it appear wider than it is in reality. The lining membrane is smooth and lubricated, as mucous surfaces usually are, and several minute foramina will be found to open into it, being the orifices of mucous follicles, or criptae, placed exterior to it, but lined by delicate processes prolonged from it into their interior. 584. The corpora cavernosa form the principal part of the body of the penis, and necessarily determine its form and consistence. They represent two cylindrical tubes, placed laterally with regard to one another, and intimately blended along the middle line for three parts of their length, whilst at the lower part, they branch out into two processes, or crura, so that the whole resembles the letter Y reversed. The crura are attached to the rami of the ischia and ossa pubis, and thence ascend, converging to the forepart of the pubic symphysis, where they become united. Along the middle line a vertical septum exists, which however forms but a partial separation, as it pre- sents, more particularly towards the anterior extremity, many large foramina, which admit of a free communication from side to side. The inferior surface presents, along the middle line, a groove, which partly lodges the canal of the urethra; the anterior extremity is rounded and supports the glans, with whose base it is firmly united. The upper surface, or dorsum, is also marked, but slightly, for the dorsal vein, and is attached to the symphysis by a triangular suspensory ligament. This is a dense lamella of fibres, so placed, that whilst the cutaneous border is free, the supe- rior one is attached to the pubis, and the inferior to the body of the penis, where its fibres spread out, becoming identified with its structure. Structure.—The corpora cavernosa are composed of a fibrous sheath, inclosing a quantity of erectile tissue. The exterior in-