361 MULTIFIDUS SPIN.®. cesses. It is made up of bundles of fleshy and tendinous fibres, intermixed rather confusedly together. The direc- tion of all is more or less oblique, but their length varies considerably, as they are found to reach from the transverse process of a particular vertebra to the spinous process of that immediately above it, and, in other instances, to those higher up by one or two spaces. Thus formed, the struc- ture here described should be considered not as a single muscle, but rather as an aggregate of many, which conspire in their general action on the vertebral column, by reason of the separate influence which each can exert on indivi- dual pairs of vertebrae. The first of these fasciculi extends from the side of the sacrum to the spinous process of the fifth lumbar vertebra, the last from the transverse process of the third cervical vertebra to the spine of the axis. The muscle gradually diminishes in bulk as it ascends; its fibres are intimately blended with those of the spinalis (dorsi et cervicis). Combined actions.—The sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and multifidus spinae, conspire in fixing the spinal column, and thereby maintaining the trunk erect. If they continue their effort, the body will be drawn somewhat backwards, as may be observed when a considerable weight is suspended from the neck, or in per- sons who have become excessively fat. In both these cases, the extensor muscles are required to make increased efforts to coun- terpoise the influence of the weight appended to the fore part of the body. As these muscles have to sustain the trunk in the sit- ting as well as in the standing posture, it might be supposed that they scarcely admitted of any relaxation, and therefore are kept almost constantly in action. But it does not appear necessary, except in making great efforts, that all of them should be in ac- tion at the same moment, and even the different parts of the same muscle must, in most cases, act successively. Thus the lower fibres of the multifidus spinae pass from the sacrum to the lumbar spines, and materially assist the quadratus lumborum and other muscles in fixing the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae. These, or rather their transverse processes, become the fixed points, from