ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 50 pelvis, of which they form an important part. To facili- tate the description of these bones, it is necessary to con- sider in each of them its body, processes, and cavities, or excavations. The body forms the anterior and most considerable part of the bone. It is rounded before, slightly hollowed pos- teriorly, where it contributes to the formation of the verte- bral canal, and in most instances flat on the superior and inferior surfaces, by which it is connected with the conti- guous bones. The processes are seven in number, of which four are called articular, from their use, and project, two superiorly and two inferiorly, in order to articulate with the corre- sponding processes of the contiguous bones. Two others stand outwards on each side, and are called transverse, from their direction. The seventh, situated posteriorly, is term- ed spinous, from its figure. The union of the spinous with the other processes is effected by means of two plates of bone, the lamellae, or arches, which complete the central foramen. As the vertebrae are piled one over the other to form a pillar, their foramina are arranged so as to form a continuous canal for the secure lodgment of the spinal mar- row and its vessels. The canal varies both in size and form in the different regions. It is broad and triangular in the cervical, narrow and circular in the dorsal; it expands again in the lumbar, from which it gradually diminishes, and ends opposite the third piece of the sacrum by an irregular opening, caused by a deficiency of the spinous processes. Each vertebra presents two excavations, or notches, at each side, one on the superior, the other on the inferior border, the latter being deeper than the former. These are adapted to one another, so that the union of each pair forms a rounded aperture communicating with the vertebral canal, and giving transmission to the spinal nerves. These are called the inter-vertebral foramina. 34. This description applies generally to all the verte-