E L KM ENTS OF ANATOMY. 618 that its convex border looks outwards, and the concave in- wards, conforming with the direction of the cavity in which it lies. Itsanterior extremityexpands somewhat, and presents two or three, and sometimes as many as five, small promi- nences, separated by slight depressions, which make it to resemble somewhat the back of the hand when close shut. Some of the older anatomists called it pes hippocampi, from its resemblance to the clubbed foot of some of the lower animals. At the point where the cornu makes its curve forwards, a slight elevation is sometimes observed, which is called pes accessorius. Along the inner border of the cornu is a narrow falciform process of white substance (icorpus jimbriatum), which is adherent by one edge to the floor, of the cornu. It gradually becomes narrow, and ends in a point a little behind the pes hippocampi. Near the inner border of the corpus fimbriatum, a narrow line of cineritious substance (fascia deniata) is placed; it is not perceptible until the middle lobe, together with the in- ferior cornu of the ventricle, is drawn outwards, as it is excluded from the cavity of the cornu by the reflection of the arachnoid membrane; its free border is marked by several transverse notches, giving it a dentated appear- ance, from which its name is derived. The cornu ammo- nis consists externally of a lamella of white substance, which, if traced upwards into the body of the ventricle, will be found continuous with the corpus callosum. The corpus fimbriatum, in like manner, will be found continu- ous with the fornix. 662. The corpora striata (ganglions cerebraux supe- rieurs, Gall,) are two in number, situated one in the body of each lateral ventricle. Each of these bodies is pyriform in its shape, the larger extremity being turned forwards and inwards, the smaller backwards and outwards. The su- perior surface is smooth and slightly prominent in the cavity, all the rest being embedded in the substance of the hemisphere. Their position is so oblique, that though