325 HERNIA INGUINAL CANAL. this is effected the cord will be found to pass beneath the lower fibres of the transversalis muscle, where they form an arched border over it; and if these fibres be carefully pushed upwards, by passing the handle of a scalpel beneath them, a thin membrane will be brought into view, on which the muscle, last named, rests. Through this mem- brane the cord passes; in doing so, however, it does not pass through it, as it might be supposed to do through a hole in a sheet of paper, or, in other words, through an aperture with a sharp and defined border. On the con- trary, the cord in its passage carries with it, from the mar- gin of the opening, a prolongation which runs down upon it, inclosing it all round, and gradually narrowing so as to become of a funnel-shape. Now, if the fibres of the trans- versalis be detached a little farther, an artery (the epi- gastric) will be observed running from below upwards, lying to the inner side of the cord, at the point where the latter pierces the membrane. This, it may now be observed, is called the fascia transversalis, from lying behind the mus- cle of that name, and forms part of a general lining placed within the abdominal parietes. 334. The cord, then, in its passage, lies in an oblique canal, formed for it in the wall of the abdomen; its direc- tion being downwards, inwards, and forwards. Its length varies from an inch and a half to two inches, in different instances ; it presents an inlet, an outlet, and an intervening space, viz. the canal itself, each of which requires a special notice. The inlet or inner aperture of the canal (the internal abdominal ring) is situated in the fascia transversalis, being that part of it through which the cord passes, as it is about to emerge from the cavity of the abdomen. It corresponds with the middle point between the anterior superior spinous process of the ileum, and the symphysis pubis, being about half an inch above the margin of Poupart’s ligament. Its existence may be determined, and its margins defined, or rather, margins may be given to it, by holding the cord