ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 294 ally adopted, the nerve is considered as dividing into two branches, viz. the posterior tibial and fibular. But were we to adhere to this division, we should have no popliteal nerve, and it would evidently be a misnomer to speak of the posterior tibial in the popliteal space, and describe its relations to the popliteal artery. When treating of the ex- ternal division, we cannot avoid this otherwise than by a periphrasis. 314. The internal, or larger division of the sciatic nerve, (popliteal) passes directly downwards through the ham, co- vered by the fascia, and lying posterior and external to the popliteal vessels, from which it is separated by some adipose substance. After having passed below the joint, it rests on the popliteus muscle, covered by the gastrocnemius. In this situation it lies on the same plane as the artery, but to its external side. As it descends along the leg, it maintains the same relation to the artery, and, like it, assumes the name of posterior tibial when it has passed below the pop- liteus muscle. In the leg it lies on the tibialis posticus and flexor communis muscles, covered by the deep fascia which separates it from the soleus. It gradually inclines inwards as it descends, passes through that arched interval which separates the inner ankle from the calcaneum, and, like the artery which it accompanies, divides into its two terminal branches, viz. the internal and external plantar. 315. In this course the nerve gives several branches to supply the parts along which it passes, a. A branch of considerable size (nervus cutaneus longus posterior, vel communicans tibice, Soemm.) runs directly downwards be- tween the heads of the gastrocnemius, and then over the posterior surface of that muscle, gradually inclining out- wards to reach the external border of the tendo Achillis. In this course the nerve accompanies the external saphena vein; and about the middle of the calf of the leg, or some- times lower down, it joins with a corresponding branch sent from the fibular nerve. The nerve resulting from this union