577 THE HEART—ITS AURICLE. moment of its pulsation, its direction would be downwards, forwards, and to the left side. The anterior surface of the heart is convex in its general outline; the posterior is flat, and rests on the diaphragm: the lower, or right border, is rather thin, and longer than the upper, which is rounded. The heart’s surface is marked on its upper and under aspect by two lines, of which one runs transversely, the other from above downwards; their position indicates the division of the organ into four different compartments, or cavi- ties. The base of the heart (which is comparatively thin and flaccid in its structure) consists of that part which is in immediate connexion with the veins {pars cordis venosa), and is divided into two cavities, called auricles, from the fact that each is surmounted by an appendage resemb ing an ear {auricula). It is separated from the lower, or pyramidal part, by a deep transverse groove {sul- cus auriculo-ventricularis). These facts can be distinctly recognised only when the heart is distended. The portion between the transverse sulcus and the summit is thick and muscular, and connected with the arterial trunks ; it con- sists of two cavities (ventricles), the division between which is indicated by two slight grooves extending from base to apex, and lodging the descending branches of the coronary vessels. 629. The right auricle {sinus venarum cavarum) rests on the diaphragm, and forms the right and anterior part of the base of the heart. Its external surface, unattached in the greater part of its extent, is prolonged upwards, and to the left side, into its auricular appendage ; inferiorly it is connected with the right ventricle, internally with the left auricle, and into its two extremities open the venae cavae. In order to examine its interior, an incision may be made from the junction of the cavae across to the auri- cula, from the middle of which another may be carried upwards into the superior cava. If the lower border of this incision be drawn forwards, the cavae will be observed 2 p