ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 420 lar ligament of the wrist. Having passed in front of the latter, it divides into two branches, one being superficial, the other deep-seated. The superficial branch, the larger of the two, soon gives off, at its inner side, a considerable branch, which inclines towards the ulnar border of the hand, lying upon the short muscles of the little finger, to which it gives filaments. On reaching the head of the metacarpal bone, it proceeds along the inner margin of the digital pha- langes to their extremity, forming the first digital or colla- teral branch of the fingers. Continuing its course directly forwards, the superficial branch rests on the abductor mus- cle of the little finger, where it gives a small offset from its radial side, which joins with the last digital branch of the ulnar nerve; and, finally, on arriving opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones (fourth and fifth) it divides into two ramusculi, which run along the contiguous borders of the ring and little fingers. 442. The deep-seated palmar branch of the ulnar nerve becomes concealed from view by passing beneath the ad- ductor of the little finger. It then inclines outwards across the metacarpus, covered by the flexor tendons, and resting on the interossei, and terminates by two or three filaments, which ramify in the adductor pollicis. The deep nerve, like the corresponding artery, forms an arch, whose con- vexity is turned towards the fingers; and, in its course branches are given off on each side to the interossei mus- cles, as well as to the small muscles of the little finger. The ulnar nerve distributes several branches, which, if taken in the order of their occurrence, will be found as fol- lows :—a, at the lower border of the axilla one or two fila- ntents are given to the teres major, and latissimus dorsi; b, in the arm a few branches pass into the substance of the long and short heads of the triceps muscle, on which the nerve lies ; c, in the fore-arm numerous branches are given to the contiguous muscles, viz. the flexor carpi ulnaris, and flexor profundus, and also some filaments, which maintain communications with the branches of the median nerve; d,