INTRODUCTION. 3 so much insisted on as it deserves; it exercises us in that important intellectual operation which may be called me- thod, or orderly distribution, as the exact sciences train the mind to habits of close attention and reasoning. Natu- ral history requires the most precise method or arrange- ment, as geometry demands the most rigorous reasoning. When this art (if it may be so called) is thoroughly ac- quired, it may be applied with great advantage to other ob- jects. All discussions that require a classification of facts, all researches that are found* d on an orderly distribution of the subject, are conducted on the same principle; and young men who have turned to this science as a matter of amusement, will be surprised to find how much a famili- arity with its processes will facilitate the unravelling all complicated subjects.”* 3. A single instance will suffice to shew the application that may be made of the researches of the comparative anatomist, in elucidating the structure and functions of one of the most complex organs of the human body, viz. that of hearing. It is obvious that. the general conformation of organs must have a reference to the more or less perfect development of the animals to which they belong, being more simple in those of the lower grades, and becoming more complex in proportion as they occupy a higher rank in the scale of animated beings; their structure too, must bear some relation to the medium in which the animals live, and be influenced by the circumstance of their being inha- bitants of the air or of water. When treating of a par- ticular organ, for instance the ear, it may at first sight appear calculated to embarrass the subject with useless de- tails, were we to review its conformation in the different classes of animals ; it may be said that it would be far bet- ter to confine our attention to the human ear, about which alone we can feel any interest. But it should be recollected, * Lawrence, On the Modern History of Comparative Anatomy, p. 29. Cuvier. Regne Animal, preface, p. 18. B 2