EXTENSORS OF THE THUMB. 391 passing between the carpus and annular ligament, is inserted into the posterior extremity of the metacarpal bone, sus- taining the little finger. It is covered only by the skin and fascia. The deep-seated muscles on the back of the arm are all less in size and length than the superficial set, from which they are readily distinguishable by the obliquity of their direction. 402. The extensor of the metacarpal hone of the thumb (ossis metacarpi pollicis; abductor longns pollicis, Soemm.) descends obliquely over the bones of the fore-arm, lying im- mediately below the border of the supinator brevis. It arises from the external surface of the ulna, as well as from the in- terosseous ligament and radius, as it crosses each ; its fleshy belly ends in a tendon, which passes through a groove in the outer border of the radius, common to it and the extensor of the first phalanx of the thumb, and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The origin and upper part of the muscle are concealed by the common exten- sor, but it becomes superficial where it lies on the external border of the radius ; and whilst passing over the carpus its tendon crosses those of the radial extensors. 403. The extensor of the first phalanx (primi internodii pollicis) is much smaller than the preceding, and lies close to its lower border. The muscle arises from the interosseous ligament and radius, and slightly, if at all, from the ulna; it takes the same direction as the abductor, which it accom- panies through the groove in the radius, and over the cor- responding border of the carpus; its tendon proceeds on- wards to the thumb, and is inserted into its first phalanx. 404. The extensor of the second phalanx (secundi inter- nodii pollicis) is much larger than the preceding muscle, which it partly covers; its direction is obliquely downwards and forwards from the ulna to the thumb. It arises from the back part of the ulna, immediately below the great abductor, and from the adjacent part of the interosseous