602 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. nifest as to be felt or seen, and produces what is called the pulse.” According to Dr. Hales*, “ at each systole of the heart the blood in the arteries is propelled forward with an increased impetus, thereby dilating the canal.” Dr. Thomson’s opinion is nearly to the same effect:—“ The pulsation of arteries is derived entirely from the dilatation and elongation which they experience, from the blood impelled into them by the systole of the hearty.” Haller, in one part of his Elements, attributes the pulse to a dilatation of the arteries, but subsequently admits that the dilatation cannot be perceived, and is only inferred from the sensation communi- cated to the finger, Bichat, during the progress of his researches, frequently examined the condition of denuded arteries, and as he could not observe any adequate dilatation in them, he came ulti- mately to the conclusion that the pulse was attributable to a loco- motion in the whole artery, (“un mouvementde totalitewhich causes it to spring against the finger during the systole of the heart. Yet he still inclines to admit a dilatation in some degree: — “ Quant a la dilatation, elle est presque nulle dans l’etat ordi- naire.” It is scarcely necessary to allude to the hypothesis of Dumas§, that arteries are endued with a power of active dilatation, which enables them to expand, to receive the blood which is about to be propelled into them. The late Dr. Parry ||, of Bath, assisted by Mr. Norman, made a great number of experiments, to deter- mine the condition of arteries during their pulsation. Whilst prose- cuting his researches, he laid bare fifty-five of the larger arteries in horses, sheep, and dogs, “ yet could not by any mode of scru- tiny detect, in a single instance, the smallest dilatation or contrac- tion corresponding with the systole or diastole of the left ventricle of the heart.” It is more than probable, as Dr. Wilson Philip has remarked, that the mode of measurement adopted in these ex- periments was not sufficiently delicate to ascertain the point with precision, for Dr. Hastings found that a ligature placed round an * Hamastatics. i Lecture on Inflammation, p. 63. t Anutomie Generale, vol. ii. p. 335. $ Physiologie, vol. iii. p. 314. || Essay on the Pulse.