ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 354 a thin aponeurosis. This ends in a fleshy lamella, which is inserted by four digitations into the bodies of the four last ribs, a little beyond their angles. Its direction is upwards and outwards : structure—partly muscular, partly aponeu- rotic : relations—its posterior surface is covered by the latissimus dorsi, the anterior rests on the deep lumbar muscles. 354. On the same plane with the serrati, and connecting their borders, may be observed a thin, semi-transparent lamella, which forms a septum between the superficial and deep muscles. Its fibres are for the most part transverse, being extended between the spinous processes of the ver- tebrae and the angles of the ribs. Some anatomists have named it the vertebral aponeurosis, and conceive it to be intended for the purpose of binding down the extensor muscles of the spine. 355. The splenius muscle is placed obliquely along the posterior part of the neck; it is usually divided into two parts, one being extended from the spinous processes of the upper dorsal and lower cervical vertebra?, to the side of the base of the skull, the other to some of the contiguous trans- verse processes. This separation of the muscle at its supe- rior attachment has given occasion for its division into two parts, the lower being named splenius colli, the upper splenius capitis, a. The splenius colli (dorso-trachelien) arises from the spinous processes of four dorsal vertebras, from the third to the sixth inclusive: the fibres ascend, forming a flat, muscular plane, which is inserted by sepa- rate points into the transverse processes of the three or four superior cervical vertebrae, close to the origin of the levator anguli scapulae, b. The splenius capitis (cervico- mastoidien) not only differs from the preceding in situation, being placed superior and internal to it, but is also some- what broader and thicker. It arises from the spinous processes of the three or four lower cervical, and of the two superior dorsal vertebrae, from which its fibres proceed