THE NECK-OPERATIONS. 49) ciently, the trachea and oesophagus may be cut across a little above the sternum, and both together drawn forwards. There then can be no difficulty in detaching the pharynx from the muscles in front of the vertebral column, as they are merely con- nected by loose cellular tissue. When this is done, a piece of cloth should be carried deeply to the base of the skull and drawn across the pharynx, to serve as a retractor whilst the saw is being used. The edge of the saw should, in the next place, be applied behind the styloid processes, so as to cut through the base of the skull, and detach the face, with the pharynx and larynx all pendent from beneath it. The pharynx should be stuffed, to render its muscles tense. When its exterior is sufficiently exa- mined, a longitudinal slit made along the middle line posteriorly, will expose its cavity, and that of the mouth and larynx. The small muscles of the latter are at once exhibited by detaching the mucous membrane, to which they are but very loosely connected. The levatores palati are also brought into view, by removing the mucous membrane from the posterior surface of the soft palate ; the circumflexi will be found along the internal pterygoid plates ; their aponeurosis, which form the fundamental part of the soft palate, will be seen in front, by dissecting off a thick layer of gra- nular substance, which is continued downwards upon it beneath the mucous membrane. Operations.—In performing laryngotomy, after the patiei t has been properly adjusted, the skin may be pinched up into a fold, running across the interval between the cricoid and thyroid carti- lages, and divided down to its base, or point of reflection. When allowed to subside, it will present a longitudinal incision, extend- ing from above downwards. The fascia must, in the next place, be divided, and then the crico-thyro'id membrane is exposed, but previously to puncturing it, its surface should be examined, to ascertain whether a small artery runs upon it. If so, it would be well to pass a needle beneath it, and tie it, or tear it across ; for, if lacerated, it will be far less likely to bleed than if simply divided. The membrane may then be punctured, or rather, a crucial incision may be made in it. Cases of this sort, when successful, are still attended with one very disagreeable conse- quence, namely, that though the process of healing goes on well 2 K