ELEMENTS OP ANATOMY. S6 embryo is a mere bud, or germ, placed on a small vesicle, resembling one of the simplest worms; it soon becomes a small vermiform body, without head or limbs, which is the character of the annelides; in the next step of the change, two sets of limbs of the same length are produced, which with a caudal prolongation, constitute a resemblance to quadrupeds. If the development of the osseous system be examined, it will be found at first mucilaginous, then cartilaginous, and finally, that it passes into the state of true hone—conditions of the system analogous to that of the lamprey, the cartilaginous fishes, and oviparous animals. Again, at the earliest period of foetal life in the human subject, the nervous system is limited to the nervous cords and their ganglia, as may be observed in such of the non- vertebrated animals as have nerves ; at the next step of its progress, the medulla spinalis, and oblongata, together with the tubercula, are distinctly marked, though the brain and cerebellum are still rudimentary ; so it is in the fishes and reptiles. The cerebral organs soon begin to predominate over the tubercula, and as their development proceeds, they resemble successively the corresponding parts in birds and mammalia, until finally the lobes of the cerebrum and cerebellum attain that degree of conformation which is cha- racteristic of man. The principle here pointed out, has been deduced from an examination of the different systems of organs in the human foetus, at different periods of their development;* and as the general results of what is now known on the subject, it may be set down, that at the earlier periods of foetal life, the human embryo resembles animals of the lowest grade in the scale of existence, and that as its growth proceeds, it approaches more and more nearly, by successive steps, the conformation of those of a higher and more perfect organization. This principle is so fully established, that it may be considered as an axiom in phy- siology ; yet in making application of it, we should carefully * Meckel, tom. i. p. 50.