350 ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. with that of the teres; it ascends higher than the latter, and also lies nearer to the brachial vessels. It is sometimes connected to the pectoralis major, by a fleshy fasciculus extended across the axillary space. Structure—aponeu- rotic in the lumbar region, tendinous at its insertion, fleshy in the rest of its extent: relations—it is covered by the trapezius at its dorsal origin, and subcutaneous in the rest of its extent, except where it ascends into the axilla. The anterior surface rests on the deep lumbar muscles, the serra- tus posticus inferior, part of the obliquus internus abdominis, and serratus major, the rhomboideus major, infra-spinatus, and teres major; its internal border is blended with the fibres of the corresponding muscle, along the middle line, the inferior intermixes with those of the gluteus maximus. The superior is free, and describes a slight curve, whose concavity looks upwards ; the anterior one, also free in the greater part of its extent, slightly overlaps the obliquus ex- ternals below, and higher up the serratus magnus. Combined, Actions.—The trapezius and latissimus dorsi direct or influence the motion of several parts, as must be evident from the extent of their attachments. If the shoulders be fixed, the trapezii muscles acting together, draw the head directly backwards ; but if only one of them acts, it inclines the head to the corresponding side. If the head be fixed, the superior part of the trapezius ele- vates the point of the shoulder, and sustains it in that position, as when a burthen is supported upon it; but, if the effort required be considerable, or if it must be continued for any length of time, the co-operation of the serratus magnus becomes indispensable. It would appear at first sight, from a mere inspection of the fibres of this muscle, that those in the middle part of it could draw the scapula directly backwards, and the lower ones draw it down- wards. This, however, is far from being the fact. As the mus- cle is attached to the spine of the scapula and the acromion, it will rather, in consequence of the obliquity of the direction of these processes, communicate a certain degree of rotatory motion to the whole bone, by means of which, when the acromion ascends, the posterior angle descends, and the inferior one comes forward ;