ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 464 512. The internal pterygoid muscle is applied closely to the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, somewhat as the masseter is to its outside. It arises from the pterygoid groove, or fossa, from which it inclines downwards and out- wards, to be inserted into the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, for about an inch above its angle. The muscle is separated from the bone by the internal lateral ligament, and by the dental artery and nerve; the tensor palati rests on its inner surface, whilst placed in the pterygoid groove. 513. The external pterygoid muscle extends horizontally backwards and outwards, from the process of that name to the condyle of the lower jaw, being a thick, short, fleshy mass. It arises from the outer surface of the external pterygoid lamella, from which its fibres proceed in the di- rection just indicated, to be inserted into the anterior surface of the neck of the condyle of the inferior maxilla, having a connexion also with the inter-articular cartilage. The muscle lies deeply in the zigomatic fossa, concealed by the coronoid process of the jaw, and the insertion of the tem- poral muscle ; but when the masseter is removed, part of it can be seen between that process and the condyle. As the pterygoid muscles diverge to their destinations, they leave between them an angular interval, which transmits the gustatory and dental nerves, and the internal maxillary artery. Actions.—The lower jaw is elevated by the temporal, masseter, and internal pterygoid muscles, which conspire to this end. If the two first act together, the elevation is direct, but if the two last act, the obliquity of their direction enables them to carry the angle of the jaw a little forwards. The triturating movement is performed exclusively by the external pterygoid muscles. If both act together, they draw the condyles, and therefore the whole jaw, directly forwards, so as to make the lower teeth pro- ject beyond the upper. But when only one acts at a given time, it draws the corresponding condyle forwards, the other remaining