ELEMENTS OE ANATOMY. 314 they cross the tendons of the extensor proprius and tibialis anticus, so that each is made to pass through a separate tube; and finally the fibres of the ligament, after having been thus successively separated and united again, are in- serted into the internal malleolus. Now the fasciculus of this band, or ligament, which lies in front of the tendons, is continuous by its upper border with the fascia of the leg, and by the lower with that on the dorsum of the foot, all three lying on the same plane beneath the skin. b. The internal annular ligament is attached by one extremity to the inner malleolus and the fibrous sheath of the muscles passing behind it, by the other to the inner margin of the calcaneum. Its superior border is continuous with the fas- cia of the leg, the inferior gives origin to part of the ab- ductor pollicis; one surface is subcutaneous, the other is in contact with the vessels which pass under cover of it into the sole of the foot. 326. 1. The fascia on the dorsum of the foot covers the extensor tendons, being prolonged from the lower border of the annular ligament forwards, to the digital phalanges. When traced towards the external border of the foot, it is found to be attached to the head of the fifth metatarsal bone. Behind that point, it becomes blended with the corresponding margin of the plantar fascia, and before it, the membrane folds over the abductor and short flexor of the little toe, and unites with the digital process of the plantar fascia that lies beneath them. When traced along the in- ner border of the foot, we find the membrane passing over the fleshy fibres of the abductor pollicis. Posteriorly it is attached to the calcaneum; but in all that part called the hol- low of the foot, after covering the muscle just named, it is folded round its outer border, and, for part of its extent, passes deeply towards the tarsal bones, becoming blended with a septum, sent upwards by the plantar fascia; in the rest it unites with the first digital process of the fascia just named. The correctness of these statements may be rea-