ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 358 vertebrae, by the other with the mastoid process and the base of the skull, a. The transversalis colli (transversus cervicis, Soemm.) arises from the transverse processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae, by so many separate points, which are connected with the fibres of the longis- simus dorsi: these form a flat, irregular fasciculus, which is prolonged upon the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and inserted by a series of tendinous and fleshy points into their posterior tubercles, from the sixth to the second inclusive. The muscle must, from its mode of origin and insertion, be thinner towards its extremities than in the middle. Its external side is in contact with the cervi- calis descendens and splenius colli, which rest upon it; the internal one lies on the complexus and trachelo-mastoideus, being, in most instances, so closely united with the latter, that they are with difficulty separated, b. The cranial prolongation of the longissimus dorsi {trachelo-mastoideus; complexus minor) arises by a series of distinct fasciculi from the transverse processes of the three or four upper dorsal vertebrae, and the three lower cervical. The union of these forms a flat and thin muscle, which ascends in- clining somewhat outwards, to be inserted into the posterior border and extremity of the mastoid process. Its internal surface rests on the complexus for the greater part of its extent; farther up it crosses over the obliquus capitis (su- perior and inferior), and covers the Qrigin of the digas- tricus. 359. The complexus (dorsi-trachelo-occipital) is a thick and rather broad muscle, situated somewhat obliquely upon the posterior part of the cervical region. Its name is de- rived from the peculiar manner in which tendinous and fleshy fibres are intermixed in its structure. It arises from the transverse and articulating processes of the four or five superior dorsal vertebrae, and from the transverse processes of the four inferior cervical, by a series of tendinous points. These are soon aggregated into a mass, which proceeds