351 TRAPEZIUS—LATISSIMUS—THEIR ACTION. and should the acromion be made to resume its previous position, the inferior angle will move backwards, the superior one upwards. The bone then, in its movements, cannot be made to ascend or de- scend, to go backwards or forwards, in such a way that the direc- tion of its different parts may remain exactly parallel, in their new situations, to those which they had previously occupied. The bone will, on the contrary, be found to rotate, as it were, on a pivot driven through the centre of its dorsum. To draw the scapula di- rectly backwards requires the combined effort of the trapezius and rhomboid muscles; for, as their fibres decussate, the direction of the one being obliquely downwards, that of the other upwards, the bone, by their combined action, is made to move in the direction of the diagonal of their forces, that is to say, towards the spinal column. The latissimus dorsi, acting on the shaft of the humerus, ne- cessarily draws it downwards, and gives it at the same time a rotatory motion on its own axis, particularly if it had been previously everted, or turned outwards. When the shoulder and arm are rendered fixed, the muscle acts in various ways on the trunk. Thus it assists in forcible inspiration, by drawing on the lower ribs and elevating them. By conspiring with the abdo- minal and greater pectoral muscles, it elevates and sustains the body in the effort of climbing; and when an individual is con- strained to resort to the assistance of crutches, the latissimus and pectoralis major are the chief agents in progression. The arms are in the first instance fixed by grasping the long handle of each crutch ; and as the muscles, which form the borders of the axilla are thus made to rest on the cross bar of the crutch, they de- rive thereby all the mechanical advantage of sliding over a pul- ley-like surface. Thus adjusted, when the muscles contract, they necessarily draw the body up towards the fulcrum, over which they pass, and so enable the other moving powers to propel the body and limbs forwards. The trapezius and latissimus dorsi, more particularly the latter, can act under certain circumstances on the spine, preparatory to which the shoulder and arm must become (at least relatively) the fixed points of their attachment. When a man walks close to the margin of a raised foot-path, or of a curb-stone, and happens to incline a little beyond it, the body becomes curved to that side, and by its own weight would carry him over it, if a particular