406 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The brachial artery, when arrived opposite the inser- tion of the brachialis muscle, divides into its ulnar and ra- dial branches. 422. The ulnar artery inclines in rather a curved direc- tion downwards and inwards, passing under cover of the superficial muscles that arise from the inner condyle, viz. the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis, until it reaches the flexor carpi ulnaris. About the same point, that is, at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the fore-arm, the artery comes into contact with the ulnar nerve, which had previously been separated from it by a considerable interval, having lain be- hind the inner condyle, but here approaches it, lying to its ulnar side. Thus placed, they both descend towards the inner border of the palm of the hand. In the first part of its course, the artery is covered by the muscles above enu- merated ; in the middle of the arm, it is overlapped by the flexor ulnaris, and, in the lower, runs parallel with its tendon, covered only by the fascia and skin. For two- thirds of its extent it lies on the flexor profundus, in the rest, on the pronator quadratus, and annular ligament. It is accompanied by two veins, which lie one on each side, in its entire extent, and by the ulnar nerve lying to its ulnar border, for the lower two-thirds of its course. 423. The ulnar artery, guided as it were by the tendon of the flexor ulnaris muscle, reaches the radial or palmar border of the pisiform bone, where, accompanied by the nerve, it passes over the cutaneous surface of the annular ligament of the wrist. At this point the artery begins at once to change its direction, by running outwards and for- wards, across the palm of the hand, and on arriving about midway between the flexure formed by the bend of the first joint of the thumb, and that of the fore-finger, it ter- minates by inosculating with a branch (superficialis voice) sent forwards by the radial artery, to unite with it. The vessel thus describes a curve, whose convexity looks for-