359 SPINALIS. obliquely upwards and inwards, converging to the corres- ponding muscle of the opposite side, and finally is inserted into the irregular surface between the oblique ridges on the occipital bone. At their origin the two muscles of this name are separated at a considerable interval, but at their insertions they are in close contact. Its posterior or exter- nal surface, which is inclined obliquely outwards, is in im- mediate contact superiorly for a short way with the trape- zius, in the middle of the neck, the splenius is interposed between them, and lower down the trachelo-mastoideus. The anterior, or inner surface rests on the spinalis colli, and higher up on the rectus capitis major, and on the ob- liqui. 360. The spinalis muscle is so named from being situ- ated close along the spinous processes of the vertebrae. It consists of two parts, one occupying the cervical, the other the dorsal region, a. The spinalis colli (semi-spinalis colli) arises by four or five fasciculi from the transverse processes of the four or five superior dorsal vertebrae. These having united, incline inwards as they ascend, and are inserted usu- ally by four separate points into the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae, from the fifth to the second inclusive. Its fibres at their origin are covered by those of the longis- simus dorsi, and in the neck by the complexus: its inner surface rests on the termination of the spinalis dorsi and higher up on the inter-spinales cervicis. h. The spinalis dorsi (semi-spinalis dorsi) is placed in a continuous line im- mediately beneath the preceding muscle, and intimately united with it. It arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, from the eleventh to the fifth inclusive, by so many distinct fasciculi. These, having united, pass upwards, and are inserted into the spinous processes of the four superior dorsal, and two lower cervical vertebrae. Its fibres, at their origin, are concealed by the longissimus dorsi, and at their insertion, for some way, by the spinalis