38 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The number of bones is differently stated by writers, the difference arising from the period of life at which the enu- meration is made: in early age the number is greatest, and subsequently diminishes, when by the process of ossifica- tion two or more previously distinct pieces become united into one. The form and size of bones present a consider- able degree of variety. They are usually divided into long, short, flat, and mixed. 23. The long or cylindrical bones belong in general to the parts intended for locomotion, and represent so many levers, to be moved by the muscles in various directions. When examined from the superior part to the inferior, viz. from the humerus or femur, to the phalanges of the fingers or toes, they are found to increase successively in number as they diminish in size—a disposition which gives to the superior division of each limb the great extent of motion it enjoys, whilst it allows to the inferior and terminal ones, a variety of rapid movements within resti’icted limits. Each long bone presents a body or middle, and two ex- tremities. The shaft or body is round and cylindrical in some, prismatic in others, but somewhat bent or twisted on its axis, so that the direction of its superior extremity does not correspond with that of the inferior. Whatever dif- ference of outward form may obtain, there is little or none in that of the internal canal; it is circular in the tibia as well as in the femur. This canal is not intended merely to lodge and protect the medulla; it contributes very much to in- crease the strength of the bone, as has been satisfactorily shewn by direct experiment. If two cylinders contain the same quantity of matter, one being solid, the other hollow, the power of resistance of the latter is greater than that of the former, owing to its greater diameter. By this conformation also bones, without being increased in weight, afford a more expanded surface for the attachment of muscles, and acquire an adequate degree of lightness, to- gether with sufficient superficial extent, which are important