NERVES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY—THEIR DISSECTION. 299 the muscles. It becomes then necessary to examine these sepa- rately, taking the superficial nerves first; for if the fascia be cut through, so as to expose the others, the distinction between them is destroyed, and the subsequent steps of the process rendered confused and intricate. A difficulty, however, here presents itself. The superficial nerves being merely branches of the deep ones, it will not be easy to detect them at the different points at which they pierce the fascia, and so we are deprived of the advantage of prosecuting their dissection by proceeding from the trunk to the branches. All this can be got over by care and attention, more especially as the fascia supports the nerves, so that if they be once found, there can be no difficulty in following them throughout their entire course. The first incision through the skin may be made from the pubes to the crest of the ileum, parallel with Poupart’s ligament, and about half an inch above it. From the centre of this, let another be drawn down to the inner condyle, through the whole length of the thigh, and there met by a trans- verse incision extending across the knee-joint. It may also be found convenient to subdivide the intervening space by another incision made in the same direction. The perpendicular incision should barely divide the skin and cellular tissue beneath it, the transverse ones should not sink into the latter, else they will cut across some of the superficial nerves, or possibly the saphena vein. In reflecting the flaps thus formed, the skin should be drawn forwards, and held as tight as possible, by which means, whilst the cellular membrane is being cautiously dissected, or rather scraped through, the nerves wdl be detected as they pierce the fascia at different intervals. If once discovered, the skin should be a little relaxed, and the nerve laid down on the fascia, after which, by holding the blade of the scalpel in the horizontal position, it can be readily made to pass along the cutaneous sur- face of the nerve from above downwards, all its lateral filaments being left untouched as they branch out on the fascia. We have described three principal subcutaneous nerves on the anterior surface of the thigh. One of these usually pierces the fascia towards the external border of the limb, an inch and half below the spinous process of the ileum ; another midway between that point and the pubis, and the third about midway between