366 ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. spinalis colli, and is inserted into the extremity of the trans- verse process of the atlas. 368. The obliquus capitis superior (atloido-sous-masto- idien) extends from the atlas to the lateral and inferior part of the base of the skull. It arises from the extremity of the transverse process of the first cervical vertebra, inclines from thence obliquely upwards and inwards, expanding somewhat as it ascends, and is inserted close behind the mastoid process, into the interval between the transverse ridges of the occipital bone. These two muscles are covered by the complexus, and correspond, the one with first inter- vertebral space, the other with that between the atlas and occiput. The actions and uses of these muscles shall be considered after we have examined the rest of the muscular apparatus employed in the different movements of the head. 369. The arteries of the posterior part of the trunk are derived, in the lumbar region, from the ileo-lumbar and lum- bar branches; in the dorsal, from the inter-costal branches, and in the cervical, from the cervicalis profunda, the ver- tebral, and the occipital. These shall be described with the vessels from which they proceed. The veins of the spinal column form a system in themselves, marked by seve- ral peculiarities; their description must follow that of the medulla spinalis and its investments. The nerves are sup- plied by the posterior sacral, the lumbar, inter-costal, and cervical branches, and must likewise be deferred for the present. Dissection.—The subject being turned prone, the chest and abdomen should be supported by blocks, and the arms allowed to hang over the sides of the table. An incision may be made through the integument, along the spinal column, from the occi- pital protuberance to the sacrum. This should be bounded at its superior extremity by a transverse incision, carried outwards to the mastoid process, and below by another extended along the spine of the ileum. The intervening space may, in the next