ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. 556 and if examined beneath the pubic arch, will be found to consist of two lamellae, which, on approaching the base of the sub-pubic ligament (p. 174,) separate, one passing on its cutaneous, the other on its pelvic surface, where they terminate, by gradually becoming thin and cellular. Where the membrane is strained across the interval between the bones, it at first sight appears to terminate by a lunated border, whose concavity looks towards the rectum; but we find that its continuity is not interrupted at this point, as it can be traced downwards round the margin of the rectum, and on the levator ani, gradually, however, becoming thin and indistinct. About half an inch below the base of the sub-pubic ligament, and, therefore, an inch below the arch, the membrane presents a foramen peculiarly formed for the transmis- sion of the urethra. If the latter be drawn forwards, it will be found to be invested by a tubular prolongation derived from the margin of the foramen, and continuous with the perinaeal or exter- nal lamella of the fascia. A similar prolongation is reflected back- wards from the posterior or pelvic lamella which invests the membranous and prostatic portions of the canal, and extends as far as the neck of the bladder. When the parts remain undis- turbed, the surface of the fascia is quite flat; and if the urethra be cut across close to it, the aperture will be found barely sufficient to transmit it. But if the penis be drawn obliquely upwards, the fascia is rendered tense, and convex forwards, by means of the traction excited on it through the medium of its tubular prolonga- tion. Should the experiment be then made of cutting off the urethra close to the fascia, the foramen will be found much wider, for the tube had been previously rendered, as it were, trumpet- shaped, and so it will be when the urethra is rendered tense during the introduction of a catheter. It may now be observed, that the urethra, whilst the penis remains pendulous, forms two curves, the concavity of one looking down towards the perinaeum, that of the other towards the arch of the pubis. The first of these is owing to the fact, that the penis is attached on each side of the arch of the pubis by its crura, and by its triangular ligament to the symphysis, from which it hangs downwards, carrying the urethra with it. From the angle thus formed by the body of the penis with the forepart of the pubis, the urethra has to descend more than an