275 THE VENOUS SYSTEM. heart, and the branches diffused through the body at large. When we examine this arrangement of vessels, we find two or more minute ramifications uniting to form a branch, and a similar number of branches converging to a vessel of still larger size, until finally all end in one trunk. 288. The veins are usually said to possess only two coats; but, like the arteries, they are also invested by a cellular la- mella, which however is more thin and delicate than in the latter vessels. The middle coat is more thin and distensible than that of the arteries ; the greater number of its fibres are longitudinal. The internal coat is a thin shining membrane, continuous with that which lines the auricles of the heart. In its passage along the veins (those of the exti*emities) it is thrown into folds at different intervals, which constitute valves, which are so arranged as to allow the blood to flow freely towards the heart, whilst they effectually prevent its re-gurgitation backwards, into the parts from which it had been conveyed. The valves are of a lunated form, the con- vex border being continuous with the membrane lining the interior of the vessel, the straight or free one projecting to- wards its centre, where it comes into contact with a similar fold, extending from the opposite side, so that both form a complete septum across the interior of the vessel. The valves may be likened to so many minute flood-gates, all in- clined in the direction towards which the stream flows, marking thereby its natural course, and constructed so as to prevent its return, at the same time that, by supporting the column of blood which intervenes between them and the heart, and preventing it from gravitating on that which follows, they remove a considerable impediment to its pro- gress along the veins. This, it will be observed, is merely a mechanical advantage; but the venous system, considered as a whole, seems to have been constructed on a general hy- draulic principle, which materially influences the passage of the blood it contains. It presents, on a general view, a se- ries of cylindrical tubes, commencing in the interior of the T 2