882 EMPYEMA. merits should be carefully sterilized before being used, as a serous effusion may easily be converted into a purulent one by neglect of this precaution. Treatment.—Small acute pleural effusion is often absorbed, but if the effusion be extensive, as soon as it interferes with the function of respiration its removal should be accomplished by surgical means. A diseased pleura cannot be depended upon to absorb a large amount of pleural effusion ; the long-continued pressure of such an effusion upon the lung may seriously interfere with its subsequent expansion, and reaccumulation of the effusion is more apt to occur in cases where the operation is delayed than in cases in which the effusion is promptly removed. Purulent Pleural Effusion.—Empyema.—The term empyema is generally used to indicate a collection of pus in the pleural cavity, although it may also be used to designate a collection of pus in any cavity of the body. Purulent pleural effusion may result from an acute serous effusion which has been contaminated by pyogenic organisms, or from the infection of blood or serum in the pleural cavity after penetrating wounds of the chest or lung. By far the greater number of cases of purulent pleural effusion, however, result from tubercular pleurisy, which may develop at the termi- nation of an acute process, such as pleurisy, pneumonia, or pleuro-pneu- monia, and we may have in such cases in addition to the tubercle bacilli the diplococcus pneumoniae as well as streptococci and staphylococci. In recent purulent pleural effusion the pleura is not much thickened, but in cases of some duration the pleura is always thickened, and may be from half an inch to an inch in thickness. A small purulent pleural effusion may in the course of time largely dis- appear, the fluid portions being absorbed, and the more consistent portions undergoing caseation and absorption or becoming encysted. The purulent matter in the chest may penetrate the lung and enter a bronchial tube and escape by the mouth, or may burrow through the pleura and intercostal muscles and point upon the surface of the chest, or may perforate the dia- phragm, giving rise to a subdiaphragmatic abscess, or may pass into the abdomen or behind or in front of the peritoneum, giving rise to an extra- peritoneal abscess. Symptoms.—The physical signs of purulent pleural effusion are the same as those of serous pleural effusion, with the addition that in the former there are symptoms which indicate the presence of pus, chills, sweating, irregular temperature, and emaciation. Treatment.—When it is evident that a pleural effusion is purulent, in view of the very slight chance of its undergoing absorption, as well as of the danger that its presence causes the patient, it should be promptly re- moved, either by aspiration, which only in exceptional cases is followed by a cure, or by incision and drainage, which should be promptly resorted to and is most likely to be followed by a satisfactory result. OPERATIONS UPON THE CHEST AND ITS CONTENTS. Paracentesis Thoracis.—This operation consists in perforating the walls of the chest with a trocar and canula to remove an effusion from the pleural cavity. The most convenient instrument for this purpose is the