LACERATED WOUNDS. 218 proximating the edges has to be considered. As a rule, the introduction of sutures in lacerated wounds is to be avoided, unless a few be used to hold the edges of flaps loosely in contact. If attempts be made to approximate closely the edges of lacerated wounds by sutures, great tension is apt to result from swelling of the tissues, which may cause gangrene of the parts, which are often partially devitalized by the traumatism. Partially detached portions of the tissue or skin may be placed in their normal positions and secured by a few loosely applied sutures, and if deep cavities exist, drainage- tubes should be introduced. The wound should then be covered with a piece of sterilized protective or rubber tissue large enough to cover the raw surface of the wound, and over this should be placed a number of layers of sterilized or bichloride gauze and a few layers of bichloride cotton, the dressings being held in position by a gauze bandage. Even if the wound has been rendered aseptic and remains so, there is usually free oozing of serum, which soaks the dressings and necessitates their removal in a few days, at which time the wound should be redressed in the same manner. Avulsion of a limb, or extensive lacerations of the extremities when the vitality of the parts is destroyed, demand primary amputation. Where the part has been completely stripped of skin, or a limb has been completely girdled, immediate skin-grafting may occasionally be employed with suc- cess, but in the latter case amputation as a primary procedure is generally indicated. In the case of avulsion of the scalp, if the detached scalp is not extensively lacerated, the wound should be sterilized, and the scalp should be replaced and held in place by a few sutures and a gauze compress and bandage, and in some cases adhesion may occur. If the scalp does not retain its vitality, skin-grafting may subsequently be employed. Another method of treatment of severe lacerated wounds is by continuous antiseptic irrigation, which is especially applicable to lacerated wounds of the extremities. In applying this method of treatment the wound and surrounding skin should first be cleansed and foreign bodies removed ; the limb should next be arranged upon pillows covered by rubber sheets so that the fluid passing over the wound can escape into a vessel and not wet the patient's bed. The skin of the limb for some distance around the wound should be rubbed with cosmoline, to prevent its becoming sodden from the continuous presence of moisture. The fluid used for irrigation is a 1 to 4000 to 1 to 8000 bichloride solution, warm or about the temperature of the body, which is allowed to run drop by drop over the part from an irrigating-can with a stopcock to regulate the flow of fluid, or from an improvised irrigator made from a jar and a few pieces of lamp-wick. The irrigating reservoir should be placed only a few inches above the wound. This form of irrigation may be kept up for days, and under its use lacer- ated wounds often become clean and covered with healthy granulations. When the wound is in this condition, dry sterilized dressings may be sub- stituted, or it may be dressed with boric ointment. In lacerated wounds in which suppuration or sloughing has occurred after the ordinary antiseptic dry dressings have been applied, it is often found of advantage to apply continuous antiseptic irrigation. In lacerated wounds where a large granulating surface exists, much time