TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SPINE. 534 the side ; the latter is especially important in cases of cervical disease. In moving a case treated by recumbency great care should be exercised not to bend the spine at the seat of disease, and moderate extension should be made at the same time. In cervical or high dorsal caries treated by recum- bency the use of extension by a weight and pulley from a collar and straps fitted to the chin and occiput, and by extending apparatus applied to the feet and legs, will often be found to relieve the patient's pain and diminish the deformity. (Fig. 454.) The treatment will often have to be kept up for Fig. 454. n Extension in tuberculosis of the cervical vertebrae. a period of months or even years, and, although the results are often as satis- factory as those obtained by other methods, the greatest objection urged against it is that the child cannot be taken into the fresh air, nor have a change of climate, if that be desirable. We have seen many cases treated by recumbency in which good results followed, for children seem to bear confinement to bed remarkably well if properly fed and if due care is exer- cised to see that the room in which they are confined is properly ventilated. Eecumbeucy seems to be especially useful in young children, who do not bear apparatus as well as older ones, and in the earlier stages of the affection we are in the habit of keeping these patients recumbent for a few months, and later applying a supporting brace so that they can move about. Fixation Apparatus.—The cheapest and most generally applicable fixation apparatus, and the one which accomplishes the best results, is the plaster of Paris jacket. It is applied by suspending the child from a tripod (Fig. 455) by means of arm-slings and a head-halter (Fig. 456); only mod- erate extension need be used, the child resting the most of his weight upon the feet. A neatly fitting woven woollen shirt is applied to the body and extends below the pelvis ; a pad may be placed upon the abdomen just below the ribs under the shirt while the bandage is being applied, and removed after it has set, to allow for distention of the stomach and bowels. The plaster of Paris bandage is moistened in water and squeezed dry ; the