EPULIS. 767 development of the affection. Symptoms.—The symptoms may not be marked at first, but swelling of the tissues over the jaws soon appears, and as a portion of the jaws becomes necrosed a shell of bone develops from the periosteum. Extensive necrosis of the jaws is the rule in these cases. In ne- FlG- 680- crosis of the jaws great fetor of the breath is common, and often is the first symptom which calls attention to the condition. Treatment.—In cases of necrosis of the jaws it is well to wait until the dead bone has been separated from the living bone before its removal is under- taken. The patient during this time 1 ° Necrosis of the jaw from phosphorus. (Agilew.) should use freely antiseptic mouth- washes of chlorate of potassium, tincture of myrrh, or permanganate of po- tassium, and care should be taken to provide for the free discharge of pus. When the necrosed portion of the bone is loose it should be removed : this should be done through the mouth if possible, the gum being incised as freely as is necessary, and the bone being removed by the use of an elevator and forceps. Almost the entire lower jaw may be removed through the mouth in this manner without making an external incision. If it is thought advisable, the dead bone may be divided by bone-cutting forceps and re- moved in sections. After the removal of the bone antiseptic mouth-washes should be employed. More or less reproduction of bone occurs from the periosteum after the removal of the dead bone, and serves to retain the shape and ultimate function of the jaw ; reproduction of bone is much more marked in the lower than in the upper jaw. Actinomycosis Of the Jaw.—This affection is occasionally seen in the jaws ; the fungus reaches the jaw through a carious tooth, and sets up inflammation, causing marked swelling, with implication of the surrounding- tissues and the skin, being followed by the formation of sinuses and the dis- charge of serous or purulent fluid. An examination of the discharge in a case of this nature will reveal small yellow bodies which contain clusters of actinomyces. The lymphatic glands become enlarged, and if the disease is not arrested by prompt treatment secondary foci may develop in the lungs or the intestine. Treatment.—This consists in exposing the diseased tissue and removing it freely with the knife or curette, the surfaces being subse- quently touched with the actual cautery. TUMOKS OF THE JAWS. Tumors of the Gums.—These are fibromata, sarcomata, epithelio- inata, or papillomata. The term epulis was formerly applied to all tumors originating from the gums. Fibroma (Epulis).—This tumor originates from the root of a carious or broken tooth, consists of fibrous tissue covered with mucous membrane, and is most frequently met with in the lower jaw. It is usually of moderate size, but occasionally may attain the dimensions of an egg and cause marked de-