OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED HERNIA. 996 bowel may be undertaken from the abdominal side either by sinking the hand deeply into the abdomen by depressing its wall and catching the bowel or omentum where it can be felt to pass into the internal ring, or by insert- ing the finger in the rectum. It has even been suggested to perform a laparotomy and pull the bowel out from above, but this method has never been generally accepted, because it does not allow investigation of the con- dition of the bowel before it returns to the peritoneal cavity, nor does it permit the division of any constricting bands or adhesions at the neck of the sac. Obturator hernia, however, may be treated in this manner, as the external operation is very difficult in that variety of hernia. The old operation for strangulated hernia, or kelotomy, in which the sac was left unopened, is now little used, being limited to extreme cases in unfavorable surroundings where more thorough measures are impossible. An incision is made over the neck of the sac, exposing the latter and the ring. It may be very difficult to recognize the sac, and it is seldom possible to distinguish the usual anatomical " coverings," as the tissues are apt to be matted to- gether and inflamed. The sac is recognized by its dull white or translucent color and the arrangement of its fibres and vessels in longitudinal lines, which is quite different from the circular course of the vessels of the bowel. When these parts are exposed a blunt-pointed bistoury is inserted under the edge of the ring, and the latter enlarged by very small incisions, and then the contents of the hernia are to be reduced. If this cannot be done, the sac must be opened, and the contents drawn down and examined, and if no other point of obstruction can be found the neck of the sac must be still further enlarged. In the case of inguinal or femoral hernia the constricting ring may be divided directly forward or upward, the blade of the knife being held parallel with the median line. This incision must be made as shallow as possible, to avoid wounding blood-vessels which may cross the neck, especially in the case of femoral hernia; therefore the knife should be very dull, and it is better to make several shallow incisions than a single deep cut. If the protruding loop of bowel is small, it should be held down while the stricture is being divided, lest it slip up before a thorough exami- nation of its condition can be made. Modern Operation.—Surgeons now open the neck of the sac at once and examine the contents, especially if violent efforts of taxis have been made or if the strangulation is severe or has lasted over twenty-four hours. The constriction is then relieved in inguinal hernia by open incision of the canal, but in femoral by nicking the ligament as just described. If the patient's condition is good and the hernia can be reduced, the operation is concluded by suturing the opening, as in one of the methods of radical cure. The treatment of the contents of the sac will depend upon their con- dition. If they are perfectly natural, they are returned to the abdomen. If they are doubtful, a delay of a few minutes will often decide the question, for when relieved of the constriction they rapidly regain their color. There is usually considerable serum in the sac, often with a fecal odor, but unless cloudy it need not prevent the return of the strangulated bowel. A free escape of serum upon opening the sac may be looked upon as a good sign