ANGIOMA. 101 neuroma should indicate a tumor composed of nerve-tissue, and some new production of nerve-fibres should be present, but this does not exist in the tumors just mentioned. In very rare cases some multiplication of the nerve- cells and axis-cylinders has been found, but these are pathological curiosi- ties. According to the majority of authorities, the nodular swellings at the ends of the divided nerves in amputation stumps are merely fibrous masses growing from the sheaths, and do not contain any new-formed fibres. Some pathologists reckon glioma as neuroma, for it originates only from the true nerve-cells of the brain and optic nerves, although the large round cells of the tumor do not in the least resemble the source from which they spring. Pure glioma is such a rarity that we shall confine our notice of these turuors to the description of gliosarcoma. ANGIOMA. An angioma is a tumor composed of a mass of newly formed blood- vessels or lymphatic vessels. By the term angioma is generally understood a tumor of the Mood-vessels, commonly called a naevus, a tumor of lymphatic vessels being known as a lymphangioma. Structure.—Angiomata which arise from the blood-vessels may contain dilated capillaries or veins, or even arteries, for cirsoid aneurisms are techni- cally arterial angiomata, although they are usually considered instances of local disease of the arteries. Cirsoid aneurism will be treated of in the sec- tion on blood-vessels. Angioma may be strictly encapsulated, but occasion- ally it extends without any distinct boundary into the skin, muscles, and subcutaneous tissue about it. It may involve only the most superficial layers of the skin, producing the so-called port-wine mark, but more usu- ally the deeper layers are also attacked, and the ordinary naevus is produced. In the port-wine mark only the smallest capillaries are involved, without other changes than their dilatation and remarkable abundance. To this form the term telangiectasis is most properly applied. A cavernous angioma is one containing di- lated, tortuous, and thickened veins, as well as capillaries, and resembles cavernous tissue in its structure, but sometimes the septa break down and the adja- cent veins may form large cysts full of blood. When an angioma is encapsulated the blood enters it by a few small arteries, and leaves it by similar veins of normal structure, which pass through the capsule and are con- nected with the capillaries and veins within the tumor. Even when the tumor is not well limited, the transition from the normal vessels to those of the tumor is quite sharp. Angiomata are often associated with a large amount of loose fibrous tissue, Subcutaneous angioma: a, normal skin : 6, dilated vessels of the tumor, cut across. X 100. (F. 0. Wood, M.D.)