1057 COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHOEA. tion, hematuria, and a diminution or cessation of the discharge, injections should be discontinued, and the patient put to bed and given a very light diet, consisting largely of milk. The bowels should be kept open by laxatives and the patient encouraged to drink freely of water. If anti- blennorrhagics are being administered, they should be stopped and urinary sedatives substituted, as boric acid, salol, and hyoscyamus, the latter either by the mouth or, where there is much tenesmus, in suppository combined with opium. After the very acute stage has been passed, irrigations of the deep urethra with weak solutions of permanganate of potassium or nitrate of silver are useful. These may be administered by passing a soft catheter into the prostatic urethra and then attaching it to the reservoir containing the solution, which is allowed to run into the bladder until that viscus is filled ; the catheter is then withdrawn, irrigating the urethra in its passage, and the patient voids the solution contained in his bladder, thus bringing it in immediate relation with all parts of the urethra. In the later stages the copaiba and oil of sandal wood may be again administered, and if the dis- ease becomes chronic, irrigations and local instillations of nitrate of silver will be useful, as well as the other measures mentioned in the treatment of chronic urethritis. Tonics and other agents to overcome the sexual neur- asthenia associated with chronic posterior urethritis may be called for. Complications.—Retention of urine may occur, and may be spas- modic, or follow involvement of the prostate, or be the result of previous stricture. A hot sitz-bath, mucilaginous drinks, hot applications over the bladder and perineum, and the free use of opium, with perhaps leeching to the perineum, will generally relieve the patient without the use of a catheter, which should not be passed until other expedients fail, and then a soft instrument should be used. Balanitis and balanoposthitis are due to the extension of the inflam- mation to the surface of the glans penis and the inner layer of the prepuce. They are predisposed to by uncleanliness and a long and tight prepuce, and are liable to be complicated by an inflammatory phimosis. The symptoms are burning and itching, with redness and purulent secretion, and finally superficial ulceration. The treatment consists in cleanliness, with the use of a dusting powder, and in some cases the injection under the prepuce of a nitrate of silver solution (gr. x to xx to water fsi). Phimosis following balanoposthitis is due to infiltration of lymph into the prepuce, and must be diagnosed from that due to other inflammatory causes, as chancre and chancroid. The history of the case, and the absence of external signs of chancre or chancroid, with the presence of ardor urina?, of chordee, and perhaps of gonococci in the pus, are diagnostic points. Irrigation of the subpreputial space, followed by stripping of the urethra, will be followed by the appearance of pus if the phimosis is secondary to a urethritis, but not if it is simple or due to chancre or chancroid. It should be treated by injections beneath the prepuce of hot bichloride (1 to 10,000 to 1 to 30,000), weak carbolic solution, or lead water and laudanum, com- bined with elevation of the penis and rest in bed. Paraphimosis sometimes presents itself as a complication, due to in- flammatory swelling after retraction, and should be promptly reduced, and 67