PHIMOSIS. 1130 may form between the foreskin and the glans. A narrow preputial orifice is followed by the same consequences as a narrow meatus—distention of the urinary channels and various nervous conditions. The milder forms interfere with the cleanliness Phimosis—the orifice. Phimosis—the redundancy. sticky secretion known as smegma collects and gives rise to balanitis or in- tensifies any venereal inflammation. A foreskin with an orifice of good size but adherent to the glans may also cause frequent micturition or sexual hyperesthesia, and may give rise to the habit of masturbation on account of the local irritation. Treatment.—A narrow preputial orifice should be enlarged by the op- eration of circumcision, which consists in removing a portion of the fore- skin, or by a simple dorsal incision. The latter expedient is useful in cases of extensive venereal disease, in which it is desirable to make the wound as small as possible, for fear of infection of the fresh wound surfaces, but even in such cases it should be followed later by a typical circumcision. In the adherent prepuce of children, if the orifice is fairly large and the foreskin not redundant, it is allowable to separate the adhesions without any cutting operation. The mother must then be taught to draw the foreskin back daily and to cleanse the glans carefully, replacing the foreskin to avoid paraphimosis. Circumcision.—The operation of circumcision is begun by seizing the edges of the preputial orifice with two or three artery clamps and thus putting the inner layer of the foreskin upon the stretch. A special pre- putial clamp, or the handles of a pair of scissors which come together flatly, are then placed upon the prepuce so as to grasp it from side to side, the clamp being at an angle of about forty-five degrees with the long axis of the organ and parallel with the dorsum of the glans. The redundant part of the foreskin is then cut away with a sharp knife or with a pair of scissors, keeping close to the clamp on the side next to the glans. Unless