797 CHAPTER XXVIII. INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE EYE AND ITS APPEND- AGES. Contusion and Concussion of the Eyeball.—Au eyeball injured by a blow from a blunt object—for example, a fist, a billet of wood, or a cork—may present the following symptoms: discoloration of the lid, injec- tion of the bulbar conjunctival vessels, and hemorrhage into the anterior chamber (hyphcema). Sometimes the cornea assumes a greenish-brown hue, owing to dissemination of hseinatodin in its layers (blood-staining of the cornea). Absorption of the hemorrhage is facilitated by instilling a drop of atropine and covering the eye with a light pressure bandage. In addition to, or in place of, these lesions, there may be dilatation of the pupil {traumatic mydriasis), accompanied sometimes by rupture of the sphinc- ter of the iris. The condition is not altered by treatment. Under other circumstances the force of the blow ruptures the ciliary attachment of the iris, causing the condition known as irido-dialysis. As long as any signs of irritation remain, atropine drops (four grains to the ounce) should be instilled, and a light pressure bandage should be worn. Occasionally the iris will form a reattachment, but usually the false opening remains, and gives but little trouble. At times, however, it causes diplopia. Instead of rupture of the ciliary margin of the iris the blow may be fol- lowed by displacement of this membrane, either partial or complete (trau- matic aniridia). Finally, contusion of the eyeball may be accompanied by rupture of the cornea, or of the sclera. Usually the rupture includes all the coats of the eye, as well as the conjunctival covering—that is to say, the wound is "com- pound;" but the conjunctiva may escape laceration and cover the torn sclera beneath it. The immediate effect of rupture of the eyeball is extensive hemorrhage into the vitreous and the anterior chamber, associated with prolapse of the vitreous humor. Sometimes the lens escapes entirely, or lies beneath the conjunctiva. Marked reduction in tension will lead to the diagnosis of rup- ture of the eyeball, even when the conjunctiva is untorn and covers the wound, although in a few instances there is a similar reduction in intra- ocular tension merely from concussion without rupture. The treatment of these conditions is the same as that of wounds of the eyeball, and will be considered in a subsequent section (page 799). Traumatisms of the Crystalline Lens.—Injuries of the eyeball, either contusions or penetrating wounds, may be associated with two impor- tant results, so far as the crystalline lens is concerned :