FEACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. 444 fracture of the clavicle, but, although the deformity may be marked, the functional result is generally very satisfactory. Treatment.—In the treatment of fracture of the clavicle the principal indication is to carry the shoulder upward, outward, and backward—that is, to restore it to its normal position, and thus bring the acromial fragment, the one principally displaced, to its proper place. Although this may be easily accomplished by manipulation, great difficulty is experienced in keep- ing the shoulder in this position, for the unsupported weight of the shoulder tends to cause a reproduction of the deformity. The movement of the scapula is an important factor in the production of deformity after fracture of the clavicle, and any dressing which does not secure fixation of this bone cannot fulfil the indications in treatment. Treatment in the Recumbent Posture.—By this method of treat- ment excellent results may be obtained with the least amount of deformity, but the position is irksome, and many patients will not submit to it. The patient should be placed upon a firm mattress, and the head placed on a low pillow, with the chin slightly depressed, so as to relax the sterno-cleido-mas- toid muscle and relieve the tension upon the sternal fragment of the clavicle. A folded towel should be placed in the axilla, to protect the surface of the arm and chest from excoriation, and the arm and forearm on the injured side should be flexed and placed across the chest, so that the fingers of the arm of the injured side will touch the opposite shoulder. In this position the in- ferior angle of the scapula moves forward and the superior angle backward, the weight of the body upon the lower angle keeping it in this position. The arm should be secured in place by broad strips of adhesive plaster or by a few turns of a roller bandage. It is remarkable in cases of fracture of the clavicle with great deformity how the parts assume their normal posi- tion if the patient is placed in the recumbent posture with the arm in the position just described. After the patient has remained two or three weeks at rest in this position, union is generally sufficiently firm to allow him to get out of bed and be about with the arm bound to the side and the forearm carried in a sling, or with a Velpeau bandage applied. Treatment in the Erect Posture.—In treating a fracture of the clavicle in this posture the reduction of the deformity in the fractured bone is ac- complished by carrying the shoulder upward, outward, and backward, but great difficulty is experienced with any form of dressing iu keeping t lie shoulder from dropping and the scapula from rotating, producing recurrence of the deformity. Temporary Dressing for Fracture of the Clavicle.—This may be ac- complished by the application of a four-tailed bandage, made from a piece of muslin two yards in length and fourteen inches in width. A hole is cut in the centre, about four inches from its margin, to receive the point of the elbow ; the bandage is then split into four tails in the line of the hole and to within six inches of it. The body of the bandage should be applied so that the point of the elbow rests in the hole, and, a folded towel being placed in the axilla, the lower tails should be carried, one anteriorly, the other posteriorly, diagonally across the chest and back to the neck on the side opposite the seat of fracture, and secured ; the remaining tails are next