EXTERNAL URETHROTOMY. 1082 there is a tendency to rapid contraction, and then it may be passed twice a week. A tendency to contraction usually indicates that the cicatricial tissue has not been entirely divided, and in some cases complete division is im- possible on account of the great extent of the lesion. After weekly use of the sound for three months it should be passed once a month for a year. Before introducing the urethrotome, the meatus should be enlarged to the necessary size with a bistoury. The Otis urethrotome can only pass through a stricture of about 15 French, and for smaller strictures it is neces- sary to use the Maisonneuve instrument,- which consists of a grooved staff, along which a stylet carrying a triangular knife with a blunt apex is pushed from before backward. The instrument has a very fine flexible bougie, which can be introduced and then screwed to the end of the urethrotome, so that it guides the latter through a very tight stricture. When the urethra has been somewhat enlarged the Otis instrument can be used. Internal urethrotomy can be performed in any part of the canal, but is now seldom used for attacking strictures in the membranous urethra, or deeper, on ac- count of the danger of uncontrollable hemorrhage. The only other danger of the operation is septic infection, and this can be avoided by full antiseptic precautions, unless the stricture is so tight that the urethra behind it cannot be thoroughly irrigated. If there are signs of considerable inflammation behind a tight stricture (local tenderness, foul discharge, fever), the urethra should be opened in the perineum in order to afford drainage, otherwise urethral fever or sepsis will follow. Slight strictures can be divided pain- lessly by the use of cocaine with the precautions already noted, but very extensive or tight strictures should be treated under general anaesthesia. External urethrotomy is now seldom employed ex- cept for deep strictures or for the purpose of drainage with internal urethrotomy as just mentioned. The opera- tion is performed by introducing a guide into the urethra as large as circumstances will permit. In some cases only a filiform can be passed through the stricture, and in others no instrument will enter it, when the operation must be performed without a guide. External Urethrotomy with a Guide.—If possible, a metal guide should be used. For this purpose there is no in- strument more use fid than the tunnelled sound or cath- eter recommended by Gouley. (Fig. 834.) This instru- ment has a perforation at the point, through which the filiform, which has been passed through the stricture, may be threaded, and the instrument is then pushed down along the filiform, which guides it through the stricture. It is unsafe to use much force, for the edge of the opening in which the filiform plays may cut the bougie, and when the guide is thus lost a false passage may be made. The filiform, moreover, may enter a false passage and, curling up in it, may appear to be in the bladder, and if the surgeon introduces the tunnelled sound with force, that instrument necessarily follows the guide and may add to the Fig. 834. Tunnelled catheter.