LYMPHANGIOMA. 105 tion of the tumor. When it is small or has a narrow base it may be ex- cised ; and even large tumors may be so treated when a sear is not objec- tionable. Superficial tumors may be cauterized with acid or treated by punctate cautery or electrolysis, the latter being preferable when they are extensive. When the soft parts are extensively diseased and the tumor forms a considerable mass, Esmarch's method is the best plan of treatment. LYMPHANGIOMA. Lymphatic vessels produce the same varieties of tumors as the blood- vessels, and we may distinguish a lymphatic telangiectasis or capillary form, a cavernous form, and a cystic lymphangioma. Structure.—The gross structure of the capillary and the cavernous lymphangioma exactly resembles that of the corresponding tumors of the blood-vessels, except that the vessels have thinner walls and cystic changes are more frequent. (Fig. 64.) The cysts of lymphangioma are produced by extreme dilatation of vessels in the tumor, with absorption of the walls between the adjacent distended vessels, the result being the formation of large irregular cavities connected at many points with the lymphatic sys- tem of the tumor. These cavities have a tendency to increase constantly at the expense of the surrounding parts. In some cases the lymphangioma will be found full of small cavities con- structed in this way ; in other cases Lymphangioma, x 100. (F. C. Wood, JI.D.) Lymphatic cyst of neck. (Agnew.) the entire tumor may be converted into one large cyst, especially in the neck. Like the blood angiomata, the lymphangiomata are usually congeni- tal in origin, and may extend slowly or rapidly. They are most frequently seen in the lips and the tongue, where they give rise to the deformities known as macrocheilia and macroglossia. Lymphatic cysts of the neck have been given the name of hygroma colli cysticum, or hydrocele of the neck (Fig. 65), but the term cystic lymphan- gioma is preferable. In many of the branchial cysts there is an accumu- lation of round cells in the walls with a structure resembling that of a lymphatic gland or a lymphangioma, and, while it is possible that some supposed branchial cysts are really of lymphatic origin, the mere presence