346 TREATMENT OF VARICOSE VEINS. liinb from the lower part of the foot to a point some distance above the seat of the enlarged veins. (Fig. 266.) In some instances it is necessary to include the limb from the toes to the groin in the stocking or bandage. It is well before applying the elas- tic stocking or bandage to place a thin cotton stocking upon the limb, and then slip the elastic stocking over this. Operative Treatment.—In cases in which the use of the measures mentioned above and the application of a stocking or bandage are not followed by comfort or relief, or in the case of patients who live a very active life, in whom the wearing of a stocking or bandage is irksome, operative treatment may be resorted to. In all operations upon veins it is essential that the greatest care should be taken as regards asepsis, for a septic phlebitis may arise from carelessness in this respect, and be followed by most serious consequences. The operations which are now most widely employed for the relief of appUedtotheTeg. varicose veins are multiple ligature or excision of a portion of the diseased veins. Multiple Ligature.—This is accomplished by making a small incision over the enlarged vein, and passing around the vein a sterilized silk or catgut ligature, and tying it securely; the ends of the ligature should be cut short, and the small wound should be closed by a suture. A number of ligatures may be applied in this manner; twenty or thirty may be ap- plied to veins of the leg and thigh at one time. After closing the wounds the limb should be enveloped in an antiseptic dressing and elevated, and the patient should be kept at rest in bed for ten days or two weeks. Very satisfactory obliteration of the veins will often be obtained by this procedure. Excision.—This very radical method of treating varicose veins is prac- tised when there are tumor-like masses of varicose veins at one or more places, the rest of the limb being healthy, and consists in exposing the en- larged veins by an incision three or four inches in length, and, after dis- secting them out, applying proximal and distal ligatures, and excising the portion of the veins between the ligatures. The only bleeding that is likely to arise is that following the division of veins communicating with the deep veins; if such bleeding occurs, the communicating veins should be secured by ligatures. The wounds should be closed by sutures, a ster- ilized or antiseptic gauze dressing applied, and the limb elevated, and the patient should be kept in bed for ten days or two weeks. The results fol- lowing this method of treatment are most satisfactory if care is observed to prevent infection of the wound. Trendelenburg's method, which consists in ligating the saphenous vein in Scarpa's triangle, is also a satisfactory operation in the treatment of varicose veins of the lower extremity. Phlebectases.—These are stellate groups of dilated venules which are often seen upon the lower extremities of adults or upon other parts of the body. Their presence causes no special symptoms, and they produce little