ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION. 204 as the funnel is raised the saline solution passes into the vein, and the sur- geon should see that the funnel is kept constantly filled with the solution; the quantity introduced should be regulated by the condition of the patient's pulse. When a sufficient quantity has been introduced, the cauula should be removed and the catgut ligatures tied, and the wound should be closed with sutures. Infusion.—Saline solution may also be introduced into the cellular tis- sue by means of a large hypodermic needle passed into the connective tis- sue and connected by a rubber tube with a reservoir containing the solution. The usual locations for the introdiTction of the solution are the external portions of the thighs and the anterior portion of the abdominal walls. As much as two or three pints of the solution have been introduced in this manner, with as satisfactory results as those obtained by intravenous injection. ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION. Artificial respiration is resorted to in cases of threatened death from apnoea consequent upon profound anesthetization, the inhalation of irre- spirable gases, or drowning, or in cases where from any cause there is inter- ference with the function of breathing. Before resorting to artificial respi- ration care should be taken that the mouth and air-passages are free from any substance which would obstruct the entrance of air into the lungs, such as mucus, foreign bodies, or liquids, and also that all tight clothing interfering with the free expansion of the chest-walls is removed. If there is a foreign body in the larynx or trachea, tracheotomy should be performed before artificial respiration is attempted. In practising artificial respiration the manipulations should be persevered in for some time, even if no apparent spontaneous respiratory movements are excited ; for resuscitation has been accomplished in apparently hopeless cases by perseverance with the ma- nipulations. As soon as natural respiratory movements are detected the surgeon should not cease artificial respiration, but should continue these manipulations in such a way as to coincide with the spontaneous in- spiratory and expiratory move- ments until the breathing has assumed its regular character. Direct Method of Arti- ficial Respiration.—The ma- nipulations in Howard's direct method of artificial respiration are as follows: First.—"To expel water from the stomach and lungs, strip the patient to the waist, and if the jaws are clenched, separate them and keep them apart by placing between them a piece of cork or a small piece of wood. Place the patient face downward, the pit of the stomach being raised above the level of the mouth by a large roll of clothing placed Fig. 140. First manipulation in direct method of artificial respiration. (Howard.)