308 PARASITIC DISEASES OF THE SKIN. destroy the entire nose, eyelid, or lip, and if the process be arrested the resulting cicatrization only adds to the disfigurement. In the neighborhood of the eye ectropion is a conirnon result of these contractions. It is often complicated with tuberculosis of other organs, such as the lymph-nodes, bones, joints, and lungs. The disease begins in childhood. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis is made by the soft granulation-tissue which forms the masses, the formation of new foci in the neighborhood of old ones, the appearance of the new foci as small yellow-brown spots easily penetrated by a blunt instrument, and the characteristic scarring. In chronic eczema, on the other hand, the skin is hard and not ulcerated. In acne rosacea the nodules formed on the nose may resemble lupus, but the skin is bright red and hard, and suppuration is common. It is most difficult to distin- guish lupus from epithelioma or syphilis. For the peculiarities of the last we refer to its own chapter. Epithelioma is usually recognizable by the firmness of the tumors, their pearly translucency, the greater thick- ness of the lesions (except in rodent ulcer), the beginning of the disease late in life, and the more marked sensations of prickling, crawling, etc. It must be borne in mind that epithelioma often develops upon old lupous ulcerations. Treatment.—The successful treatment of lupus requires great patience and endurance on the part of both patient and surgeon. The only local application which is useful is pyrogallic acid applied in a saturated ethereal solution, or a ten to fifteen per cent, ointment, renewed every few days, and followed by mercurial ointment. Solid caustic potash or nitrate of silver with sharp points bored into the tissue will destroy it. A more elegant method of cauterization is the use of the small platinum galvano- caustic apparatus. Linear scarification with a sharp scalpel is a good method of treatment, the formation of cicatricial tissue in the little wounds isolating and strangulating the included nodules. The disease may be re- moved also by the curette, by the dentist's burr operated by the dental engine, or by complete excision followed by skin-grafting. Excision is often impossible on account of the situation of the disease, and it is said that recurrence is frequent, but the relapse is probably due to the fact that the parts were not removed widely enough. If sufficient perseverance is exercised, a cure may be expected in spite of numerous relapses after long and tedious treatment, in all except the worst cases. VEGETABLE PARASITIC DISEASES. Tinea versicolor, due to the microsporon furfur, is characterized by yellow or brown patches of various sizes and shapes, chiefly appearing on the trunk, and scaling slightly when scratched. It may cover the entire trunk, and even the limbs and face as well, with one sheet of brown. Its progress is slow, but it is very persistent. It is usually seen in adults, and is of very little clinical significance. Treatment.—The parasite may be eradicated by soap and water followed by a solution of sulphite or hyposulphite of sodium (gi to gi), or of resorcin (gr. x to xxx to ^i), or by the latter in ointment.