TETANUS. TETANUS. Lockjaw (Ger. Wundstarrkrampf; Fr. Tetanos).—Tetanus is an infec- tious disease caused by a special bacillus and its toxines, affecting the nervous system, and characterized by persistent contraction of the voluntary muscles, with paroxysms of aggravated spasm, and, occasionally, local pa- jj, 9g ralysis. The bacillus tetani (Fig. 28), discovered ^ ^ in 1885, by Nicolaier, is a slender rod, growing in V / \ / \ chains, often enlarged at one end by the forma- ^ \l ^n/ \ ^ion °^ a spore, giving it the characteristic drum- i ' stick appearance, motile, found in garden-earth, ^ °— i \ S street-dust, the excrement of healthy animals, and \ \ / / \ elsewhere. It grows at ordinary temperatures, ^ f ' rapidly at 98° to 102° F. (37° to 39° 0.), being ^ anaerobic, forming a fir-tree-shaped stab-culture Bacillus of tetanus. (F. c. jn gelatin, and liquefying the medium in one Wood, M.D.) 7 week. It takes all the stains. The spores resist a temperature of 176° F. (80° C.) for one hour, but are killed by five minutes' exposure to 212° F. (100° C.) moist heat. It produces several toxines, all of which excite spasms, and one causes paralytic symptoms as well. The sterilized toxines produce the same effects as the living bacillus, even in- cluding the occurrence of a period of quiescence or incubation after their in- troduction, and the typical regular spread of the disease, which always begins at the point of introduction, unless the poison be thrown directly into the circulation or into the peritoneal cavity, when general symptoms are pro duced at once. The period of incubation is not due to retarded absorption, for if a minute quantity of the toxines be injected into the end of a rat's tail, amputation done much higher up at the end of forty-five minutes fails to save the animal. Their intense virulence is indicated by the fact that an experi- menter accidentally pricked himself in the hand with a hypodermic needle which was simply moistened with the toxine, and in three days developed the ordinary symptoms. The poison enters the circulating blood, and is carried equally to all parts of the body, but the spasms do not begin at once in all parts, and appear first in the muscles nearest the point of infection. If the dose inoculated be very small, the spasm may be limited to that group. The best theory offered to explain this peculiarity is that of Brunner, who assumes that the toxines create a state of irritation in the nerve-centres, but that the explosion of nerve-force is not produced unless the corresponding peripheral nerve-terminations are also subjected to the local effect of the poison as it spreads through the tissues by diffusion or lymphatic convey- ance from the point of inoculation. It has also been proved that an intact sensory and motor nerve connection is necessary, spasm not occurring if the sensory reflexes are prevented from reaching the centres, or if paralysis of the muscles is produced by section of the motor nerves. The presence of the toxines in the blood causes the production in the serum of an antitoxiue which has the power of conferring immunity from tetanus when injected into another animal, and even of assisting in the re- sistance to the disease when already developed. The tetanus bacilli are