TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA. 1054 seminal emissions are not uncommon. Chordee is a very distressing symptom, and is due to an extension of the inflammatory process to the meshes of the corpus spongiosum. Erection coming on, the corpus spongi- osum can take part only imperfectly in the process, and the organ assumes a bent or twisted shape, severe pain being produced by the stretching of the inflamed tissues. Chordee occurs especially at night after the patient is warm in bed, and may cause great suffering and loss of sleep. These inflammatory symptoms remain at their height from one to three weeks, at the end of which time they gradually disappear, the pain ceasing, the sexual symptoms abating, and the discharge becoming thin and milky, then watery, and ceasing after lingering as a mucous drop, which can be pressed out, or is noticed at the meatus especially in the morning. The disease may be prolonged much beyond its usual limits by violent exercise, the use of alcoholic beverages and stimulating foods, and sexual excitement of any kind. The average duration of a successfully treated case is from four to eight weeks. Constitutional symptoms are not common, although there may be slight depression and malaise or, rarely, slight fever. It was formerly believed that the posterior urethra generally escaped, the inflammation being checked in its backward progress by the compressor urethne muscle, but this has recently been shown to be incorrect. Infec- tion probably takes place in from eighty to ninety per cent, of cases. The symptoms of posterior urethritis are a decrease in the amount of dis- charge, increased frequency of urination, and deep-seated burning pain in the perineum at the end of the act, sometimes also referred to the glans. Urination is often urgent and accompanied by tenesmus, being repeated every few minutes, and perhaps followed by the passage of blood from the inflamed mucous membrane, or there may be temporary retention. Constitutional symptoms are usually absent, but erections and seminal emis- sions follow irritation of the region around the orifices of the ejaculatory ducts, and extension to the seminal vesicles and epididymis is liable to occur. Thompson's two-glass test is a convenient method for the detection of posterior urethral inflammation. The pus from the posterior urethra has a tendency, when present in any amount, to flow back into the bladder. If the patient passes his urine into two glasses, that in the first will be cloudy from the pus washed out of the urethra, while cloudiness in the second, excluding bladder and kidney diseases, will indicate posterior urethral inflammation. The first attack of gonorrhoea is the most severe, but is the one most likely to be followed by complete recovery. If instead of the discharge disappearing it becomes chronic, we have the condition known as chronic urethritis, or gleet, due to a variety of pathological changes, which will be described later. Treatment.—The treatment of gonorrhoea embraces hygienic and me- dicinal measures. A patient presenting himself for treatment must be directed to abstain absolutely from alcoholic beverages. Sexual intercourse must be interdicted as well, as must all associations tending to sexual excite- ment. Physical exercise is to be restrained as far as possible, the nearest practicable approach to absolute rest being made. Plain diet, with avoid-