CIRSOID ANEURISM. 347 disfigurement. They are sometimes observed in connection with nsevi. If for any reason their removal is considered desirable, this may best be accomplished by the use of electrolysis. ARTERIAL VARIX, CIRSOID ANEURISM, PLEXLFORM ANGIOMA. These names are applied to irregular vascular tumors caused by a cir- cumscribed dilatation and elongation of one or more arteries. The elonga- tion of the arteries causes them to present a tortuous appearance, and the convoluted vessels are held together by a small amount of connective tissue. Arterial Varix.—This consists of an elongation and dilatation of a single artery, the vessel presenting the tortuous and pouched appearance of a varicose vein, and also well-defined pulsation. The skin over the dilated vessel becomes thin, and if injured, or if ulceration occurs, serious or fatal hemorrhage may take place. The vessels in which this condition is most frequently found are the occipital, temporal, and posterior auricular arteries. Cirsoid Aneurism.—This consists of an irregular swelling made up of tortuous vessels, which can be plainly seen under the skin. (Fig. 267.) The skin over the vessels may be thin or thick, and may be pigmented or of a dull bluish color. The tumor may present well-marked or ill-de- fined pulsation. If the pulsation is forcible, a thrill and bruit may also be present. The pul- sation and thrill may sometimes be diminished or arrested by compressing the tortuous arteries or the main artery from which they are de- rived ; but, owing to the fact that the vessels making up the growths are derived from many sources, it is often difficult to arrest the pulsa- tion by pressure. Plexiform Angioma, or Aneurism by Anastomosis.—When the vascular dila- tation involves not only the arteries, but also the capillaries and veins, the condition re- sulting is known as a plexiform angioma, or aneurism by anastomosis. Pathology.—In all these varieties of vascular growth the arteries are dilated and present a varicose condition ; the walls are much thinned, atrophy of the middle coat being very marked. The disease, which is con- sidered to arise from injury or disease of the vaso-motor nerves, producing a localized paralysis, generally involves the arteries alone, but may also involve the capillaries and veins. The skin covering the vessels may be pigmented, thickened, or thinned ; it may ulcerate at points, giving rise to serious hemorrhage. Cirsoid aneurism may be confounded with aneurism, but is distinguished from this affection by the situation of the growth, the superficial pulsation and bruit, the appearance and number of vessels involved, the doughy or spongy feeling, and the difference in pressure effects. When a cirsoid aneurism follows an injury it is likely to be confused with varicose aneurism, Fig. 267. Cirsoid aneurism. (Bruns.)