FUSIFORM ANEURISM. 354 tied. The distal end of the vessel should be secured by a ligature, and the wound then cleansed, drained, and closed. In cases of diffused traumatic aneurism of the extremities in which gan- grene has occurred, amputation at the seat of injury of the artery is the most satisfactory treatment. ANEURISM. An aneurism is a circumscribed dilatation of one or more coats of an artery. Arterio-venous aneurisms, or those in which the arterial dilatation is directly or indirectly in communication with a vein, present many points of similarity in symptoms. Aneurisms are classified according to their origin, shape, and the struc- tures forming their walls. The first classification includes idiopathic or spon- taneous and traumatic aneurisms, the former occurring primarily as the result of disease, although the exciting cause may have been a single severe or more commonly a series of mild traumatisms applied to the affected part, and the latter following a wound of one or more of the coats of the vessel- wall. A second classification is made according to their shape into tubular or fusiform (sometimes called ectatic), sacculated, and dissecting. A third classification is based upon their structure, including true and false aneu- risms. In the true variety all the three coats of the artery are represented in the sac, while in the false one or more of the coats are wanting. This is a poor classification, as all stages of gradation, from true to false, are observed in aneurisms, owing to the tendency to degeneration of some of the coats of the sac. Aneurisms are also occasionally classified as circumscribed and dif- fused—a division of little importance, the diffused form being merely the condition following the internal rupture of the circumscribed form. Tubular or Fusiform Aneurism.—This is an aneurism in which the dilatation of the artery involves the entire calibre of the vessel; it is in this form that the so-called true aneurism is most frequently found, but here Fig. 271. Fig. 272. also the middle coat very fre- quently is the seat of degenera- tion, the muscular fibres some- times entirely disappearing or becoming widely separated as the disease progresses. (Fig. 271.) It is frequently con- verted into one of the saccu- lated variety by a circum- scribed weakening of its wall. This form of aneurism is most commonly found in the thora- cic and abdominal vessels, and sometimes in the arteries at the base of the brain. Sacculated Aneurism.—This is an aneurism in which the dilatation is found on one side of the vessel, the opening between the sac and the vessel Fusiform aneurism. (Agnew.) Sacculated aneurism. (Agnew.)