369 COMMON CAROTID ANEURISM. Fig. 278. Application of distal ligatures in innom- inate aneurism : a, carotid ; b, subclavian ; c, vertebral; d, thyroid axis; e, internal mammary ; /, superior intercostal. (Agnew.) Treatment.—Medical treatment should first be given a careful trial. If it fails, distal ligature of the carotid or of the subclavian, or preferably of both, is the most promising method. ( Fig. 278.) A number of cures have been re- ported by this method. Ashhurst's case of double distal ligature of these vessels for in- nominate aneurism was in good condition and able to do light work several years after the operation. Macewen's operation has been tried by Thompson and Buchanan, and, although the patient died, the post- mortem revealed beginning coagulation rn the sac. Ligation of the innominate itself for aneurism of that vessel or of the subcla- vian has succeeded in two or three cases, but is one of the most dangerous of sur- gical operations. Galvano-puneture may be attempted if other means fail. Common Carotid Aneurism.— Any portion of the carotid may be affected by aneurism, but the root of the neck and the bifurcation are the favorite seats, the right being the more frequently diseased, while that portion of the left in the thorax is peculiarly immune. It is almost as frequent in women as in men, being more common in females than any other variety of external aneurism. Besides the ordinary symp- toms there is often a disturbance of the cerebral circulation, producing gid- diness, tinnitus, etc. Dysphagia, dyspnoea, and cough are usually present, with contraction of the pupil from irritation of the cervical sympathetic, and neuralgia of the cervical nerves. It must be diagnosed from other aneu- risms at the root of the neck, from overlying tumors and abscesses, and from pulsating enlargements of the thyroid gland. Bupture externally or into the trachea, oesophagus, or larynx is the usual termination. Cerebral embolism is to be feared, and may cause paralysis and death. Treatment.—Proximal compression is possible only when there is room between the aneurism and the sternoclavicular articulation, and is prac- tised by digital pressure against or above the carotid tubercle of the sixth cervical vertebra. It causes faintness and pain, and can be kept up for only a few minutes at a time. Distal ligature is applicable to aneurism at the root of the neck, and in eleven cases gave five deaths (Bolton). Proximal ligature, when there is room, gives a fair hope of success, but, as in all cases of ligation of the carotid, more than one-third of the patients die from cerebral softening. Pulmonary congestion and hypostatic pneumonia may also cause a fatal termination. Simultaneous ligation of both carotids is a uniformly fatal operation. The old operation would be called for by sup- puration or rupture of the sac, and has been practised for traumatic aneu- rism at the root of the neck. Internal Carotid Aneurism.—The internal carotid may be affected without or within the cranium. The first form, which is rare, protrudes 24