TRACHEOTOMY. 861 Fig. 743. tracheotomy-tube is held in position after it is introduced by means of tapes attached to the shield of the tube and tied around the neck. The size of the tube to be employed varies with the age of the patient. In adults a No. 5 or No. 6 tube is required ; in children under two years of age a No. 2 tube, from two to four years a No. 3 tube, and over four years a No. 4 tube, is generally used. Anatomy of the Anterior Region of the Neck.—In making an incision over the trachea in the median line of the neck, as soon as the skin has been divided the superficial fascia is ex- posed, beneath which is the deep cervical fas- cia which encloses the sterno hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles. Upon opening the superficial fascia a large superficial venous trunk, the superficial anterior jugular vein, may be met with, or there may be two veins running par- allel with the trachea, one on each side of the median line, and communicating by a large transverse branch at the lower part of the neck. A large plexus of veins also surrounds the isthmus of the thyroid, opening above into the superior thyroid and below into the inferior thyroid vein. The innominate vein on the left side occasionally rises above the level of the sternum. (Fig. 743, D.) The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles at their upper attach- ment are not quite in contact, and as they descend the neck they are further separated; the space between them, which occupies the artery: *>•innominate vein;£. thyr°id i. . „ . . plexus; F, thyroid body; G, crico-thv- median line of the neck, is an important TOid membrane; h, thyroid cartilage; i, guide to the operator. The arteries of the neck which are of most importance in the operation are the crico-thyroid, a branch of the superior thyroid, and the thyroidea-ima, an irregular branch from the aortic arch or from the innom- inate. In children the innominate artery occasionally rises into the pre- tracheal space. The isthmus of the thyroid gland is generally largely developed in children, often covering the second and third rings of the trachea, and in some cases extending higher and covering the cricoid car- tilage. The thymus gland in children under two years of age may be exposed in opening the trachea below the isthmus of the thyroid gland. The trachea begins at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage and ter- minates opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra, although its surgical limit is the upper border of the sternum. It is covered by the tracheal fascia, and is most superficial near the cricoid cartilage; it is more movable in children than in adults. Its size varies in different individuals of the same age, being larger in males than in females. The diameter of the trachea under eighteen months of age is about four millimetres ; from two to four years of age, eight millimetres ; and from eight to twelve years, ten millimetres. Relations of the trachea : A, trachea ; B, innominate artery ; C, left carotid hyoid bone ; J, thyro-hyoid membrane : K, crico-thyroid arteries. (Agnew.)