TREATMENT OF CARBUNCLE. 45 back of the neck and the shoulders. They occur in aged persons or those who are exhausted by work, and they are often accompanied by the pres- ence of sugar in the urine. The immediate cause is infection from without, by the nails, used in scratching, or through wearing soiled clothing. Fig. 21. Section at the edge of small carbuncle of neck, showing two suppurating foci: a, skin perforated at two points, otherwise but slightly inflamed in its upper layers ; b, deeper layers of corium and subcutaneous fat infiltrated with round cells and intensely inflamed. (F. C. Wood, M.D.) Treatment.—A furuncle or boil is to be treated by a free incision, which may be made crucial if the central slough be large, and should pass entirely through the slough if the incision is made before the latter is detached. It is best to delay incision until the slough has softened and partly separated, treating the boil by hot poultices, unless the pain is very great and the in- flammation threatens to spread. It is claimed that the growth of a car- buncle can be arrested by circumscribing it with strips of plaster drawn very tightly across the skiu around the edges. Some assert that injections of carbolic acid made into the surrounding parts at the edge of the induration will check the process ; but the disease is often self-limited, running a course of a week or ten days, and these statements are, therefore, uncertain. Our best results have been obtained by excision or by thorough curetting. Ex- cision is of necessity limited to carbuncles not over two or three inches in diameter, and to robust patients. The knife must be carried through sound tissues beyond the edges and beneath the bottom of the inflammatory focus, and after waiting a few days to be sure of an aseptic wound without slough- ing, the granulating area can be covered with skin-grafts. Healing can thus be secured in two or three weeks. When excision is not feasible the car- buncle can be thoroughly curetted, the curette being passed into small in- cisions running through the openings in the skin, and the slough removed. The undermined skin should be cut away. By keeping up pressure on the part already treated while scraping out the remainder, the loss of blood can be limited, and a firm dressing will stop all oozing. The most support- ing constitutional treatment is to be employed to overcome the weakening effect of the septic element in the disease.