ENTEROSTOMY. 949 closed by operation. The first and often the only necessary step is the de- struction of the spur. Dupuytren's enterotoine (Fig. 782) is an instrument devised for this purpose, consisting of a forceps one branch of which is introduced in each end of the bowel, and the handles are then slowly approximated with a screw, being tightened daily until they cut their way through the adjacent walls, adhesions meanwhile forming around them, so that the peritoneal cavity is not opened in the process. When the two loops of bowel lie close together, this instrument acts admirably ; but if the angle between them is open, the tension may prevent the adhesions from forming sufficiently rapidly, and peritonitis may result, or another loop of bowel may lie in the angle and inay.be caught by the clamp. The spur may also be removed without opening the peritoneal cavity by incising the abdominal wall sufficiently to expose the intestinal ends and dividing the spur by open incision, the mucous membrane at the edges of the latter being sutured across the raw surfaces so as to prevent recontraction. A better method is to open the peritoneal cavity near the fecal fistula and to make an anasto- mosis between the afferent and efferent loops a short distance from the exter- nal opening, thus establishing the circulation of the intestinal contents above the spur. When the spur has been disposed of by section or anastomosis, the external orifice may be closed by any of the ordinary plastic operations for such openings, but it will usually heal spontaneously. A more radical method is resection, the entire external orifice being circumscribed by an incision some distance from its edges, the abdomen opened, and the two ad- herent ends of bowel drawn out together and cut away, the open ends of the gut being then united as in intestinal resection and the abdominal wound closed as usual. This operation is generally very difficult, on account of the numerous adhesions and the danger of peritoneal infection from the open fecal fistula. Operations.—Enterotomy.—If it is simply desired to remove a foreign body from the intestine, a laparotomy is done, and the loop of bowel is in- cised along the border opposite the mesentery. The foreign body is re- moved, and the wound is closed with Lembert sutures. Enterostomy.—If it is necessary to make an artificial anus, the opening should be made as low down as possible and just above the obstruction which it is desired to relieve. The small intestine may be opened near the ileo- cecal valve, but not above that point, lest the absorption by the bowel above the opening be not sufficient to support life. Fro. 782. Dupuytren's enterotome applied. (Agnew.)