INJURIES OF THE PERITONEUM. 924 THE PERITONEUM. The peritoneum is a closed serous sac covering the viscera and enabling them to move easily upon each other, and it also has free communication with the lymphatic system. Wounds or ulcers which perforate the hollow organs where they are covered with peritoneum result in peritonitis, but, as the peritoneum does not entirely surround all the abdominal organs, per- forations of the extraperitoneal portions of the latter may occur without peritonitis, the cavity of the peritoneum not being invaded. Abscesses usually result in the latter cases. The surface of the peritoneum is nearly as great as that of the external surface of the body, and its absorbing powers are very active, therefore general septic poisoning is easily produced when its cavity contains infectious fluid. Injuries.—The most important consideration in injuries of the perito- neum is the possibility of septic infection, which may take place from with- out or from injury of any of the contained organs. The infection may be direct, through a penetrating wound or as a result of sloughing after a severe contusion. In the repair of wounds of the peritoneum union takes place most rapidly when the serous surfaces are brought in apposition. Lymph is thrown out between the serous surfaces, the cells proliferate and emigrate into the lymph, and finally the lymph is formed into new connective tissue, the endothelial cells becoming fixed cells. These changes take place very rapidly, and within twenty-four hours the edges are firmly adherent. When a penetrating wound reaches one of the hollow organs or an ulcer threatens to perforate its walls and there is danger of infection of the peritoneal cavity, the irritation of the beginning infection causes the throw- ing out of lymph and the formation of adhesions around the perforation, which close it in on all sides, and may succeed in limiting it to that portion of the cavity already invaded if the infection is not too virulent. If serious infection takes place in a fresh wound, however, union of the serous surfaces is impeded, and may be entirely prevented, showing that a slight infec- tion causes the formation of adhesions, whereas a virulent one prevents it. Foreign bodies may enter the peritoneal cavity by accident, and ligatures are placed there during surgical operations, while sponges and instruments have sometimes been overlooked after operations and left in the cavity. If these bodies are sterile they become encapsulated in the peritoneum by the adhesions which form around them, and large bodies, such as sponges and pads of gauze, have been known to remain in the abdomen for years without symptoms. If they are not aseptic, however, peritonitis may be set up, or an abscess surrounded by adhesions may form. Catgut and such materials are absorbed, provided they are not infected. Inflammation.—Etiology.—Chemical substances may excite inflam- mation of the peritoneum, and sterile foreign bodies, such as have been mentioned, may give rise to a low grade of inflammation, which is little more than takes place in repair. Even the intestinal contents, if thoroughly sterilized, fail to set up inflammation when placed in the peritoneal cavity, showing that the bacteria in the feces must be the cause of the peritonitis which invariably follows fecal extravasation. But the normal peritoneum