592 DISLOCATIONS OF THE FIBULA. Fig. 532. mal position. The after-treatment of lateral dislocations is similar to that of other dislocations of the knee. Rotatory Dislocation of the Knee.—This is a rare displacement, in which the head of the tibia is twisted either inward or outward. In the external variety the bones of the leg are twisted, so that the internal angle of the tibia is directed forward and externally, the fibula is directed backward, a marked prominence of the patella is seen externally, and the internal condyle of the femur is also promi- nent, while the inner border of the calf of the leg presents anteriorly. (Fig. 532.) Treatment.—Ee- duction is accomplished by making extension and counter-extension and at the same time twisting the leg either externally or internally, according to the direction of the displacement. Compound Dislocations of the Knee.— Compound dislocations of the knee-joint result from the application of great force, and are often accompanied by laceration of important vessels and nerves in the popliteal space. In cases of compound dislocation of the knee-joint accompanied by extensive destruction of the soft tissues and laceration of the popliteal blood- vessels, primary amputation is usually required. If, however, the injury to the soft parts is not extensive and the vessels have escaped injury, the wound should be thoroughly sterilized, drainage should be introduced, and after reduction of displaced bones the wound should be closed, a copious antiseptic dressing applied, and the knee dressed in the extended position and fixed in this position by the application of splints or a plaster of Paris bandage. Compound dislocations of the Jcnee, complicated with comminution of the head of the tibia or the condyles of the femur, the vessels being uninjured, are cases in which primary excision of the joint may be employed with advantage. In such cases, after partial or complete excision of the joint, drainage should be introduced, the wound closed, a copious antiseptic dressing applied, and motion at the knee controlled by the application of a posterior splint or a plaster of Paris bandage. Congenital Dislocations of the Knee.—Congenital dislocations of the knee have occasionally been observed, affecting one or both knees. The reduction of the dislocation in these cases is soon followed by its reappear- ance. The most satisfactory method of treatment consists in the application of a brace which limits the motion of the joint and is provided with pads which prevent the bones from slipping out of place. Rotatory dislocation of the knee. (Agnew.) DISLOCATIONS OF THE FIBULA. The fibula may be displaced from the tibia at its upper or at its lower extremity. Dislocation of the Head of the Fibula.—The upper end of the fibula may be dislocated forward or backward. The anterior and posterior