824 GLAUCOMA. Enucleation.—Enucleation of the eyeball is performed as follows. A stop-speculum being introduced and the patient being fully etherized, the surgeon divides the conjunctiva in a circle close to the margin of the cornea. The tendons of the ocular muscles, beginning with the superior rectus, are then successively raised upon a strabismus hook and divided. The eye being made to start forward by inserting the stop speculum somewhat more deeply, the globe is drawn forward and a pair of curved scissors, introduced between the severed conjunctiva and the freed eyeball, is made to follow the curve of the latter until the optic nerve is reached, when the blades are expanded, and the nerve included between them and severed. The attach- ments of the oblique muscles and the remaining tissue which may cling to the eyeball are then divided. The conjunctival wound may be closed with silk sutures, iodoform dusted in the socket, and an ordinary compress band- age applied. It is rarely necessary to pack the orbit, as hemorrhage can readily be controlled by pressure. Evisceration.—Instead of enucleation, evisceration may be practised, which consists in an evacuation of the contents of the eye within the scle- rotic and the closure of the sclero-conjunctival wound with sutures. Evis- ceration with the introduction of a glass ball into the scleral cavity, Mules's operation, is much practised by some surgeons. The operation is performed precisely like an evisceration, except that before the sutures are intro- duced a hollow glass ball is inserted into the scleral cup and the sclera stitched over it, precisely as the leather cover of a ball is stitched over its contents. A successful operation results in an excellent, movable stump, upon which the artificial eye may rest. GLAUCOMA. Glaucoma is a disease of the eye manifested in its typical varieties by increased tension of the eyeball, dilatation of the pupil, shallowness of the anterior chamber, greatly impaired vision, anaesthesia of the cornea, and intense pain. Ophthalmoscopically, there is usually an excavation of the optic disk, the so-called glaucoma cup. Glaucoma may be either primary or secondary, and its two chief varieties are acute and chronic glaucoma. Acute Glaucoma.—In the prodromal stage of acute glaucoma there may be failure in the power of accommodation, temporary obscuration of vision, and colored halos around artificial lights. The "glaucoma at- tack" itself, which often appears in the night, is characterized by intense pain, swelling of the lids, steaminess of the cornea, semi-dilated and mo- tionless pupil, greatly increased tension of the eyeball, and rapid loss of vision. This disease has frequently been mistaken for iritis, and the error in diag- nosis has been the cause of the loss of the eye. The distinguishing charac- teristics have already been pointed out (page 818). Chronic Glaucoma.—Often there are no signs in the anterior aspect of the eye, save, perhaps, slight steaminess of the cornea and a little lack of transparency in the aqueous humor. The diagnosis must be made with the ophthalmoscope, which reveals a cupped disk, a halo around the edge of the papilla, and sometimes pulsation of the retinal vessels, especially the