78 CHAPTER VI. TUMORS. Definition.—Any swelling may be called a tumor, but the term is gen- erally restricted to the new growths or neoplasms. A neoplasm is a localized growth of tissue out of place, distinct from the tissues about it, and serving no purpose in the economy of the body, although it may be of a structure resembling normal tissue. It is generally held that, with a few doubtful exceptions, a true neoplasm never disappears spontaneously. The general changes of nutrition in the body do not affect the growth of a neoplasm, and a lipoma remains of the same size whether the body loses or gains in fat else- where, while a cancer actually grows at the expense of the body. Tumors may press the adjacent tissues aside, being separated from them by a firm capsule, or the cells of the tumor may directly invade the surrounding parts, destroying them or changing them into the same sort of abnormal tissue. It is very difficult to separate the ordinary neoplasms from certain con- genital malformations. A teratoma is a tumor formed of foetal tissue, inde- pendent of the body, but attached to or included in it. These tumors are supposed to owe their origin to causes similar to those concerned in the production of twins, the teratoma representing an abnormal or incomplete twin. We can formulate a complete series from twins to dermoid tumors, the connecting links being the joined or Siamese twins; individuals with incomplete twin bodies or limbs attached to them ; individuals with large solid tumors of foetal structures growing from the sacral region or pharynx (the true teratoma) ; and, finally, the dermoid tumors and cysts. It is also difficult, often impossible, to distinguish between the tumors and the hyper- trophies, for an osteoma is merely an abnormal local growth of bone, and an adenoma a local over-production of glandular tissue. The essential dis- tinction between the two is the fact that the neoplasms do not contribute in any way to the performance of function ; the osteoma does not add to the strength of the bone, and the adenoma does not produce active secretions. Benign and Malignant Tumors.—Neoplasms may be divided clin- ically into the benign and the malignant. Sarcoma and carcinoma are malignant, all other tumors benign. A benign tumor has no tendency to invade the surrounding structures, and is usually limited by its capsule. The existence of a capsule is indicated clinically by the free motion of the tumor on the surrounding parts. A benign tumor grows slowly, is fairly well supplied with blood-vessels, and does not tend to ulcerate. When it has been entirely removed, by operation or otherwise, it does not return, and it does not form secondary tumors in other parts. It is, therefore, not in itself dangerous to life, but it may become so, on account of its situation,