301 AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. they are to be divided. Numerous methods of amputation of the hip-joint have been devised, but those principally employed are the oval method, the antero-posterior flap and circular method. In any of these methods the hemorrhage during the operation may be controlled by the use of Wyeth's pins and the elastic strap. Oval Method.—In this method of amputation the point of a strong knife is passed into the tissues below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and two oblicpie incisions are made, one forward and down- ward, the other backward, both incisions meeting on a transverse liue on the inner side of the thigh. The muscles are next divided on a little higher line, and when the joint is exposed disarticulation is effected from the outer side, and any remaining tissue is divided. Antero-Posterior Flap Method.—In this method of amputation at the hip the point of a long amputating knife is thrust into the tissues about two finger-breadths below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, is pushed through the tissues, grazing the hip-joint, and is then brought out at the opposite side of the thigh close to the junction of the scrotum with the thigh. The knife is next carried downward close to the bone, and an anterior flap of sufficient length is cut from within outward ; this flap being held back by an assistant, the head of the bone is disarticulated, and, the knife being passed behind the bone, the posterior flap of equal length is cut from within outward. Guthrie's Method of amputation at the hip-joint is also an antero-pos- terior flap method, and consists in cutting the flaps from without inward, a smaller knife being used for this purpose, and the posterior flap being cut first. Wyeth's Method of Controlling Hemorrhage during Amputa- tion at the Hip-Joint. —This method is now very generally employed, and its adoption has diminished in a remarkable degree the mortality following amputations at the hip-joint. In Wyeth's method, the patient is brought well over FlG- ^43. the edge of the table, and an Esmarch bandage is applied to the limb up to the crotch. Two stout steel mattress-needles, or steel skewers, about twelve or fourteen inches in length, are recpaired ; the point of one of these needles is passed through the skin one and a half inches below and slightly to the inner side of the anterior Wyeth>s method of ampUtatingI7nTe hip-joint, superior spine of the ilium, and canned through the tissues about half-way between the great trochanter and the spine of the ilium, external to the neck of the femur, its point being made to emerge just behind the trochanter ; the second needle is made to enter the skin an inch below the crotch, internal to the saphenous opening, and its point is made to emerge about an inch and a half in front of the tuber ischii. The points of the needles are next protected with corks, and a long piece of rubber tubing or an Esmarch elastic strap is wound tightly five or six times around the limb above the fixation needles. (Fig. 243.)