CONTRACTURES OF JOINTS. 676 are sometimes present. Cases have been recorded of syphilitic origin (Eicord and Eichet) which were cured by the administration of iodide of potassium. Dupuytren's contraction niust be separated from contractures due to short- ening of the flexor tendons, from cicatrices, aiid those due to joint disease. Treatment.—The treatment consists in a division of the contracted bands by subcutaneous tenotomy, as advised by Adams. The tenotome is introduced beneath the skin, and the fascia is divided by cutting downward ; it is generally necessary to introduce the knife at several points, owing to the adhesions between the fascia and the skin. The after-treatment consists in the use of a splint for three weeks. When the open method is practised, a V-shaped flap of skin is turned up, and a number of transverse incisions of the contracted bands are made, or the contracted bands may be com- pletely removed. Contractures of Joints.—These may result from diseases of the joints of the upper and lower extremities, or may follow paralysis, either of cere- bral origin, as the cerebral spastic palsies, or of spinal origin, as acute anterior poliomyelitis. The measures taken to overcome deformities result- ing from joint disease are considered under Excisions. For the spastic contractures, manipulation and massage, electricity, and muscular exercise should be directed, and, finally, tenotomy may be useful. Mechanical treatment is unsatisfactory, as the contractures return after the removal of the apparatus. After an attack of acute infantile paralysis an apparatus is very useful in the prevention of contractures, and should be employed as a support for the body and to hold the limb in proper position in walking. If there is a tendency to flexion or over-extension of the knee, a brace with a lock-joint at the knee should be worn; and, similarly, if there is exten- sor paralysis of the foot, it should be kept at a right angle, to prevent the occurrence of talipes equinus, or, what is more usual, equino-varus or equino-valgus. If these measures are neglected, severe contractures, sub- luxations, and even dislocations (especially of the hip) are likely to occur. In addition, electricity and massage should be employed. If deformities are present when the case comes under observation, mechanical appliances are still useful for correction, and, in addition, tenotomy, myotomy, shorten- ing of tendons, or forcible straightening may be practised. The superficial and deep flexor muscles of the hip, the adductors and rotators, may require division, the open incision being preferable where the deeper muscles are to be attacked. The hamstring tendons in flexion of the knee are usually acces- sible for subcutaneous tenotomy, the knife being introduced so as to cut from the middle of the popliteal space outward, especial care being necessary in dividing the tendon of the biceps femoris to avoid wounding the external popliteal nerve, which runs close to its inner border. Similarly, at the ankle, the tibialis anticus, tibialis posticus, peroneals, etc., may be attacked subcutaneously. Tendons are best shortened by the method of Walsham and Willet, whereby the tendon is slit obliquely and the ends slid past each other until the desired shortening is obtained. Arthrodesis, or excision of a joint, as a means of securing a stiff joint in place of a flail-like one, has been recommended, and osteotomy may be called for to overcome the knock-knee which sometimes follows palsies.