INFLAMMATION OF MUCOUS MEMBRANES. 41 length of the sinus on one side, on the same principle as the incision of indurated callous ulcers. The exciting cause of the sinus, whether it be an undrained abscess-cavity, or a foreign body or sequestrum contained in the tissues, must be remedied or removed before a cure can be effected. Then the sinus may be treated by simply packing it thoroughly with gauze or by keeping it distended with a drainage-tube, these simple means usually sufficing when the cause has been removed. If this attempt fails, scraping or cauterization of the walls of a sinns will destroy its lining of granulations, and the contraction of the cicatricial tissue will bring about a cure ; but it will generally be necessary to remove the connective-tissue wall as well, or to divide it along one side. Sinuses sometimes become infected with tuber- culosis, and are then very obstinate, and they have even been known to undergo changes in their walls resulting in the formation of malignant tumors. The worst forms of sinus are those connected with disease of the spinal or pelvic bones, which may be over a foot in length, and in which the original cause may lie at too great a depth to be recognized and treated. INFLAMMATION OF SPECIAL TISSUES. The variations of the processes of inflammation in the different tissues (vessels, bones, glandular organs, etc.) and their treatment will be consid- ered in the separate chapters devoted to them, but it will be convenient to discuss here the inflammations of the mucous membranes, and of the serous and synovial membranes, with cellulitis, erysipelas, and certain of the other surgical infectious diseases. Mucous Membranes.—It is customary to speak of three kinds of in- flammation of the mucous membranes,—catarrhal, suppurative, and fibrin- ous. The simple or catarrhal inflammation exhibits hypersemia, with some exudation of serum, desquamation of the cells, and increased or dimin- ished secretion by the mucous glands. This condition reveals itself by slight redness and swelling and by the changes in the secretion. It may terminate in resolution or go on to suppurative inflammation. In suppurative in- flammation the exudation contains emigrated cells, which may find their way to the surface, making the secretion cloudy, and even distinctly puru- lent, or may collect in the substance of the mucous membrane and produce minute abscesses, or cause superficial sloughs of the epithelial cells with the production of ulcers. The clinical appearances coincide with these patho- logical changes. The ulcerative process may extend into the submucous tis- sue and result in suppuration there, with more or less complete destruction of the overlying mucous membrane. Finally, there is fibrinous inflamma- tion, which results in the formation of layers of exudation, known as false membranes, upon the surface of the mucous membrane. These false mem- branes are made up of fibrin, in fibres and granules, and some free cells, either emigrated leucocytes or mucous epithelia, some normal, others having undergone fibrinous degeneration, and occasionally red blood-corpuscles also. It was formerly customary to distinguish between a so-called croupous and a diphtheritic false membrane, the former being described as peeling off from the surface of the mucous membratie and leaving it intact, and the latter said to tear off with it the epithelial cells and leave behind it a raw, bleeding