665 TREATMENT OF KNOCK-KNEE. thickness, and in this position the tibia articulates with their unaltered posterior surfaces. Treatment.—In mild cases in very young children the deformity may be outgrown, although this favorable termination is more common in bow- legs than in knock-knee. No matter what course of treatment is decided upon, attention must be paid to the underlying causative condition, which is usually rickets. This includes proper diet, fresh air and sunlight, and the administration of certain drugs, as phosphorus and the phosphates, cod-liver oil, and syrup of iodide of iron. The local treatment may be mechanical or operative. Eubbing of the limbs, and systematic manipu- lation, bending the knee outward towards the correct position, should be practised daily. In early life, before the stage of eburnation of the bones has been reached—that is, up to about the end of the third year—braces will suffice for correction. They should extend well up the thigh, or even to a band around the waist, and be so adjusted as to make pressure over the inner side of the knee, which joint should be kept fixed. (Fig. 600.) If the bones have become hardened, an operation will be required. Osteoclasis and osteotomy are the operations usually employed. Oste- oclasis, or forcible fracture by instrumental devices, is popular in France, but in America is not often employed in knock-knee, on account of the danger of injury to the articulation. Osteotomy may be performed upon the femur or the tibia and fibula, commonly on the femur, which is the bone usually at fault. Ogston, Eeeves, and Chiene chiselled through the internal condyle to permit its displacement. Mace wen's operation, the one most com- monly employed, is an osteotomy of the femur, half an inch above the ad- ductor tubercle. (Fig. 601.) The limb should be thoroughly sterilized, and may be rendered bloodless by the application of an Esmarch's bandage. We prefer, however, to omit the use of this, as the small amount of blood which is lost during the operation is a matter of no moment, and the use of hemo- static apparatus favors consecutive bleeding. The limb is next laid with its outer surface upon a small sand-bag placed under the knee and the lower part of the thigh, and the leg is flexed upon the thigh. A longitudinal incision, about half an inch in length, is made down to the bone, on the inner side of the thigh, an inch above the adductor tubercle; an osteotome is introduced through this incision and carried down to the bone, and is turned so that its cutting surface shall be at a right angle to the axis of the femur; the bone is then divided by driving the osteotome through it by strokes of the mallet, great care being taken, as the posterior surface of the bone is divided, not to injure the large vessels which are in close rela- tion to it. It is usually better not to divide the bone completely with the osteotome, but, when it is about three-fourths cut through, to remove the osteotome and complete the fracture by manual force. After correcting the deformity the wound should be closed by one or two sutures of silk or cat- gut, and should then be covered with a compress of iodoform gauze, or gauze and iodoform collodion, and a pad of gauze or cotton. A flannel bandage is next applied from the toes to the groin, and, while the limb is held in a slightly over-corrected position, a plaster of Paris bandage is applied from the toes to the groin, and the limb held in this position until the