828 OPERATIONS FOR CONGENITAL CATARACT. is no sign of irritation in the lids or increased secretion on the pads, the eyes need not be opened until the third or fourth day, when the lids may be cau- tiously parted and a drop of atropine solution instilled. On the fifth day the bandage may be removed from the eye not operated upon, and by the end of a week the patient may usually dispense with the dressing entirely and wear dark glasses and a shade. If there are no contra-indications, the patient should remain in bed for four or five days. After simple extraction, it is advisable to inspect the eye at each dressing, to be sure there has been no prolapse of the iris. A cataract glass may be ordered about six weeks after a successful extraction. Operation for Juvenile and Congenital Cataracts.—A soft cataract is usually dealt with by the operation for solution, or discission. It is per- formed as follows : the lids being separated by a stop-speculum, the surgeon fixes the eye with forceps and introduces a cataract-needle through the iris and the ciliary body. At the second incision the laceration may be greater—in fact, two needles may be used. The after-treatment of discission consists in the use of atropine and a light pressure bandage. If there is much reaction, iced compresses are ad- visable, and should iritis supervene the usual treatment is indicated. If the lens-matter gives rise to glaucomatous symptoms on account of the pressure before described, it should be evacuated by a linear extraction —that is, by the introduction of a keratome about one millimetre within the margin of the cornea, until it has made a wound five millimetres wide. Through this wound the soft lens-matter will escape if counter-pressure is made on the cornea with a spud while the outer lip of the corneal wound is depressed with a curette. Sometimes the lens-matter is removed by the suc- tion method, the point of a properly constructed syringe being introduced behind the lens-matter to be removed, which is then sucked up in the barrel in the ordinary way. Operation for After-Cataract or Secondary Cataract.—A Knapp's knife-needle is introduced at the temporal side of the cornea, three milli- Discission, or needling. Fig. 719. cornea at its outer side and carries it across to the centre of the pupil, where the point is turned towards the lens, the shaft is caused to enter the cornea a little more deeply, and a laceration is made in the capsule by depressing the handle of the instrument with a lever-like movement. (Fig. 719.) The operation usually has to be repeated at intervals. The first incision should be a slight one, lest rapid extrusion of the soft lens-matter into the anterior chamber should pro- duce injurious pressure on the