INTUSSUSCEPTION. 959 (9) Volvulus. Volvulus is a twisting of any part of the bowel which has a long mesentery, either the small intestine or the sigmoid flexure, a loop being given a quarter or half turn, or even a complete rotation on its axis. The twisted loop is free at its centre, but its ends are closed by the rotation, and its blood-supply may be shut off by the twist in the mesentery so that gangrene results. Volvulus occurs four times as often in males as in females, and appears to be more common in certain races, notably the Eussians, in whom the sigmoid flexure appears to have an unusually long mesocolon. (10) Intussusception. In intussusception a portion of the bowel be- comes invaginated, or "telescoped," into that immediately below it, like the inverted finger of a glove. Intussusception occurs in both the large and the small intestine, but is most frequent at the ileo-caeeal valve. In some cases a polypus hanging in the bowel may drag the wall of the latter inward during peristaltic action, but in the majority of cases intussusception is due to an irregular peristaltic movement. Invagination of the bowel can be produced in animals by applying an electrode to the bowel, the part where the current is strongest becoming firmly contracted, and the neighboring part can be seen to creep up over it, as it were, by peristaltic action, making it seem as if the active part of the process was taken by the outer layer rather than by the inner. In such an invaginated loop there are three layers, the innermost layer being contracted intestine, the middle layer being turned inside out over the former, and the two together forming the invaginated part, or intussusceptum. (Fig. 784.) The intussusceptum is Fig. 784. Frozen section of intussusception of the dying (diagrammatic): 88, sheath ; Icm, intussusceptum; A, apex of latter; MM, mesentery of latter. contained in a third layer, which retains its natural position but is dis- tended by the invaginated gut and its mesentery. This outermost layer is called the intussuscipiens, or sheath. Intussusception is frequently found after death in children who have died of nervous or intestinal diseases. This form is called intussusception of the dying, and the invagination is frequently directed upward against the normal peristaltic movement, whereas in life we find the apex of the intus- susception almost invariably directed towards the anus. The intussuscep- tion may be only an inch or so in length, or it may involve the entire large intestine and most of the small, the ileo-esecal valve, for instance, having been seen to protrude from the anus. In the ileo-csecal region there are two varieties of intussusception—the ileo-csecal and the ileo-colic. (Fig. 785.) If the valve remains intact and