1192 INVERSION OF THE UTERUS. Betroflexion of the uterus, if the organ is not too rigid and the fundus can be bent forward, may be overcome by vaginal fixation, an incision being made along the cervix at the vaginal junction, the bladder stripped up from the anterior wall of the organ, and the fundus then thrown forward with a sound or by a finger introduced into the peritoneal cavity through a small wound in the peritoneum. The fundus is caught by a curved needle, and deep sutures passed through it and through the tissues on each side of the cervix, securing it firmly to the anterior vaginal wall. This operation is not devoid of danger, on account of the proximity of the bladder and ureters, and it is very dangerous to perform it, as has been recommended by some, without first incising the mucous membrane and detaching the bladder. Betroflexion may sometimes be treated by the same methods as retroversion. For Anteflexion.—As anteflexion is almost invariably due to a lack of tissue in the anterior wall of the uterus, little or nothing can be done to correct the malposition. But if sterility or dysmenorrhea is present owing to the acute flexion of the canal, these conditions may be relieved by incising the canal of the cervix backward, so as to split the vaginal portion. Another method of treatment consists in small multiple incisions of the os, with systematic dilatation of the canal and the wearing of an intra uterine stem pessary. Bregnancy has been known to follow these measures. Inversion.—Inversion of the uterus takes place as an accident in partu- rition, and it is also gradually produced by the traction of polypoid tumors attached near the fundus and expelled into the vagina by uterine contrac- tions. The symptoms of inversion are profuse vaginal discharge and dis- comfort owing to the presence of the tumor in the vagina, and sometimes hemorrhage from the surface of the inverted womb. The diagnosis is made by a physical examination. If the inversion is complete, the tumor will be continuous with the vault of the vagina on all sides, and the edge of the cervix can be felt high up and reversed—that is, directed upward instead of downward. If the cervix is not inverted but the fundus has descended through it, a finger or a sound can be passed into it along the sides of the tumor, but will be arrested just within at the point where the inversion occurs. (Fig. 911.) Bimanual examination will show an absence of the fundus in the pelvis, and the central depression produced by its inversion can sometimes be felt either through the abdominal wall or by the finger in the rectum. The possibility of pai"tial inversion should be remembered in removing all polypoid tumors from the vagina, as one horn of the uterus is often drawn down through the fundus and appears to be part of the pedicle of the tumor. If the inversion is not reduced at once, adhesions form and reposition may be exceedingly difficult. Treatment.—Beposition has been effected by means of a cup-shaped instrument secured to a long stem with a spiral spring, the fundus of the uterus being placed in the cup and the base of the stem and spring resting against the operator's chest. Gradual pressure is made upward, while the parts are steadied by one hand on the abdomen sunk well into the pelvis, where the depression in the upper surface of the uterus can sometimes be felt. It is wise to make a small laparotomy wound in order to break up adhesions and control the action of the instrument. If all attempts fail, the