743 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE NOSE. of cotton to the end of the string in the mouth, and under the guidance of the finger push it backward through the mouth and draw it up into the posterior naris. This plug of cotton should be so large that it will not com- pletely enter the posterior naris, but will simply re- main wedged in place. The nose is then packed from the front, and the string attached to the pos- terior pad is secured to another pad, which rests against the anterior nostril and holds the packing in place. It is then impossi- ble for any hemorrhage to take place ; but the pack- ing must not be left too long, lest the blood de- compose and septic infec- tion result. Foreign Bodies.— Foreign bodies are not in- frequently found in the nose, being introduced by accident or by intention. They can be discovered by a probe or by inspection, and can be removed easily. Sometimes it is easier to push them back into the pharynx and to remove them thence, but if this is attempted in a child he should be held with his head hanging down, so that the foreign body shall not enter the larynx when dislodged. A very good instrument for the removal of foreign bodies is the scoop invented by Gross, but a loop of wire or an ordinary hair-pin makes a very efficient substitute. Foreign bodies remaining in the nose for some time become encrusted with calcareous matter, and thus form masses of considerable size, known as rhinolifhs. Insects sometimes become lodged in the nose, and flies may lay their eggs and the larva? hatch out there. The latter are particularly difficult to dislodge, and a long course of cleansing may be necessary to rid the nose of them. Hypertrophy of the Turbinated Bones.—Hypertrophy of the turbinated bones is not uncommon, and may require cauterization by pure carbolic acid or partial removal by surgical means, an operation, however, which we believe to have been done too frequently and to be destined to a less prominent place in the future. The parts are anaesthetized with cocaine and the bone removed by small saws. Necrosis. Ozaena.—Necrosis of the bones of the nose is not uncommon as the result of inflammation, and the sequestra require removal. This can generally be done from within under cocaine anaesthesia. Necrosis is usu- ally marked by a foul discharge, but a foul discharge from the nose does not always indicate ulceration and necrosis, for it is found in ordinary ozeena, a condition which is accompanied by hypertrophy or atrophy of the mucous membrane, the latter being generally a second stage of the first. The foul- Fig. 667. Section of head showing Bellocq's canula (a) in place ; b, plug with string, ready to attach to the canula.