731 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF THE FACE. Cellulitis and erysipelas of the face are frequent, but the cellulitis is usually limited. Erysipelas occurs in two forms, the superficial or so-called idiopathic form, which develops apparently without any primary lesion, and the suppurative form, in which the infection involves the subcutaneous tissue as well as the skin. The idiopathic form is usually not very serious, spreading slowly, causing no great constitutional disturbance, and some- times being limited to a very small part of the face and head. It is a very treacherous disease, however, as at any time cerebral complications may develop, so that even the lightest cases need careful watching. Abscesses of the face are due to the infection of fresh wounds, to sup- purative processes beginning in the bones and extending into the subcuta- neous tissue, and to infection and suppuration of the lymphatic glands or the parotid glands. The lymphatic glands of the face are not numerous, and the most important are situated (1) in the depth of the cheek near the mucous membrane of the mouth, (2) near the course of the facial artery just above the border of the lower jaw, and (3) just in front of the ear over the facial nerve. The last-mentioned gland is generally affected in inflam- mations about the ear. The gland at the border of the lower jaw is not infrequently enlarged secondary to cancer of the lip. Treatment.—The lines of incision for abscesses and inflammatory con- ditions should be planned to correspond with the natural lines and folds of the face, so as to cause as little disfigurement as possible. They should also be so placed as to avoid injury to the branches of the facial nerve and to Steno's duct. Ostitis.—Inflammation of the bones of the face is exceedingly common, particularly in the jaws, on account of infection from diseased teeth. The bones of the nose are frequently the seat of necrosis as the result of syphilis. A periostitis may be caused by infection from an ulcer in the early stages, or a gumma may attack either the periosteum or the bone itself in the ter- tiary period. In the first place there will be an acute inflammatory condi- tion, with the formation of abscesses and sequestra, but in the second the bone may be absorbed and disappear in the course of a chronic purulent discharge from the nose with only slight external signs. Hereditary syph- ilis affects the bones like the tertiary form. The treatment of ostitis here is the same as elsewhere—early incision of abscesses, removal of sequestra, and curetting of softened bone. That peculiar variety of tetanus known as facial tetanus should be borne in mind in connection with wounds of the face. (See page 66.) CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES. Etiology.—In considering the congenital deformities of the face we must bear in mind the development of the parts in the early period of foetal life, in which a central process grows downward from the frontal bone, forming the bridge of the nose, and two lateral processes also descend on each side of the central one and form the sides of the nose, while from the sides of the head shoot forward two processes which go to form the upper jaws. (Pig. 651.) The vomer grows downward behind the nasal process from the frontal bone, forming the septum of the nose, and at its end it carries