EXCISION OF THE RECTUM. 1036 disease, the bowel should be divided transversely at this point with scissors. If the peritoneal cavity is opened in the dissection, it should be closed by sutures. Vessels which bleed freely during the dissection should be clamped with haemostatic forceps and finally ligatured. The wound is next irrigated, and the edges of the bowel brought down and sutured to the skin, care being taken to pass the sutures deeply, so that no pockets shall be left in which fluids may collect and become septic. A drainage-tube is also introduced if the posterior portion of the incision is closed by sutures. In cases where the anus is not involved in the disease the incision should be made in the same manner, but the sphincter should be divided posteriorly and turned aside with the skin. If a portion of healthy mucous membrane is present, it should be left. A large rubber catheter wrapped with iodoform gauze is passed into the bowel, and its end left projecting from the anus to permit the escape of flatus. This tube is often not well borne, and has frequently to be removed soon after the patient recovers from the anaesthetic. A gauze dressing is placed over the anal region and secured by a T-bandage. The patient should be placed upon a liquid diet, and the bowels kept quiet by the use of opium. At the end of a week the bowels are moved by a laxative and the tube is removed. To avoid the trouble which often arises from fecal movements soon after the operation, and to enable the surgeon better to keep the wound aseptic, a preliminary inguinal colostomy is sometimes done on the left side, and when this wound is healed and the feces are escaping from the artificial anus the excision of the rectal growth is undertaken. Kraske's Operation.—When cancer involves the rectum high up, even as high as the sigmoid flexure, it is possible to excise the growth by an oper- ative procedure, which has been described by Kraske. This consists in making an incision from the second sacral vertebra to the anus, and dividing the muscular attachments and ligaments on the left side of the sacrum as far as its end. The coccyx should also be excised, and a portion of the left side of the sacrum removed with a gouge. The incision should next be carried forward so as to encircle the anus. This gives a free exposure of the rectum, which is then dissected loose from its attachments. The peritoneal cavity is opened, and the gut is drawn down and amputated by a circular incision. The edges of the gut are next brought down as far as possible and sutured to the tissues of the ischio-rectal fossa. A drainage-tube should be placed in the peritoneal cavity, its end projecting from the perineal wound. The wound is packed with gauze, and a gauze dressing applied. Schede recommends closing the peritoneal cavity by the application of sutures, uniting the peritoneum to the serous surface of the sigmoid flexure. He also recommends leaving the anus and the lower portion of the rectum intact, if healthy, and suturing the lower rectal segment by two layers of sutures, one passed through the mucous coat and the other through the other coats of the bowel. Preliminary colostomy in the left groin is also practised before the rectum is excised. Recto-Vesical, Recto-Urethral, and Recto-Vaginal Fistula.— These various forms of fistula as congenital affections have already been described, but they may also result from traumatisms in the female, as acci-