ETIOLOGY OF TUMORS. so adult tissue or the structure of a normal organ the more benign will the growth be; and that, on the other hand, the farther it departs from these types the more malignant will be its clinical character. Etiology.—The two most generally accepted theories of the origin of tumors are that of Cohnheim, known as the theory of foetal inclusion, and Volkmann's suggestion of traumatic origin. Foetal Inclusion Theory.—Foetal tissues are remarkable for their power of growth rather than for their functional activity. Cohnheim im- agined that small fragments of embryonic tissue might be displaced during fcetal development and might lie dormant in their unnatural situation until some injury or unknown influence stimulated them to grow. The suppo- sition implies that many thousands of these fragments of fcetal tissue, con- sisting of single cells or groups of cells, exist in all parts of the body, ready to develop. Traumatic Theory.—Volkmann's theory supposes that the normal cells may be changed by some traumatic influence and begin to grow in an unnatural way, thus producing a neoplasm. The tumors of the connective- tissue group are apt to follow a single injury, whereas the epithelial tumors are more likely to follow chronic irritation of the epithelium by mechanical, chemical, or other agents. In the first case, a contusion or other injury of the soft parts of a limb occurs, blood is extra vasated, and changes of repair begin. When the repair has been finished, all these changes should become retro- gressive, the cells should return to their normal condition of slow growth and carry on their functions. But sometimes their reaction to the injury appears excessive, and they grow out of proportion to the necessity of the case, and more new tissue is formed than can fully organize, so that it per- sists in the foetal character, and a malignant connective-tissue growth—a sarcoma—is the result. In the second case, continued irritation of an epithelial cell tends to make it multiply, and instead of producing its normal secretion it turns all its energies towards reproduction. It then has a tendency to penetrate the connective-tissue layer or basement membrane on which it should nor- mally lie, and thus malignant epithelial tumors originate. The appearance of a tumor as the immediate result of a blow is not very common, an osteo- sarcoma following an injury to a bone (more frequently a contusion than a fracture) being probably the most frequent example, and the production of the benign tumors, such as fibroma or lipoma, by such causes is very rare. Carcinoma and epithelioma, however, are seen almost daily as the result of continuous irritation. Epithelioma often originates in the lip where a short hot pipe is held in smoking, or about the edges of an old ulcer of the leg. Epithelial growths are frequently found in situations liable to irritation and injury, the majority of the epitheliomata of the mucous membranes being situated on the lips, on the tongue, in the larynx, the pylorus, the ileo-csecal valve, or the rectum. The testicle is peculiarly liable to malignant disease when retained in the inguinal canal. Traumatic Epithelial Cyst.—A peculiar form of tumor directly pro- duced by injuries is the traumatic epithelial cyst (Garre, Eeverdin). It is supposed that a small portion of the external epidermis is carried downward