831 TUMORS OF ORBIT. DISEASES OP THE ORBIT. Injuries of the orbit have already been described on page 802. In ad- dition we have to consider periostitis, caries, necrosis, and cellulitis of the orbit. Orbital periostitis and caries are practically identical with these affections when they occur elsewhere in the body, and need no special consideration here. Cellulitis.—This is an inflammation of the cellulo-fatty tissue of the orbit, and in its acute variety is characterized by chills, deep-seated pain, intense headache, prominence of the eyeball, and limitation of its move- ment, with swelling and oedema of the lid. Later there may be optic neu- ritis, anaesthesia of the cornea, ulceration of this membrane, and even sup- puration of the eyeball. The affection may be caused by exposure to cold, is especially common after certain fevers—scarlet fever, typhoid fever— and the most violent types are seen with facial erysipelas. Others occur from extension of inflammation in the ethmoid cells or the frontal sinus, and, finally, certain cases are metastatic, occurring in connection with pyaemia. Treatment.—Locally frequently cLanged hot compresses are suitable, but as early as possible the pus should be evacuated, the incision being made with a knife introduced flatwise at the point of greatest fluctuation. Tumors Of the Orbit.—Independently of those which occur in con- nection with the eye itself, morbid growths may arise from the bony walls of the orbit—namely, exostoses, osteomas, and those which originate in the tissues of the orbit, which include cysts—sebaceous, dermoid, and serous— and a variety of tumors—an- giomas, lipomas, lymphomas, and chondromas, together with the various types of sarcoma. In addition to the actual prominence which gives in- dication of the growth, hard, soft, or fluctuating, according to the character of the tissue, the usual symptoms are ex- ophthalmos, partial or com- plete immobility of the eye- ball, diplopia, chemosis of the conjunctiva, and oedema of the lid. If possible, an attempt should be made to remove growths of this character without injuring the eye- ball. If the tumor is malignant, however, in most instances it is necessary to remove the entire contents of the orbit. (Fig. 723.) Fig. 723. Sarcoma of orbit. (Case under care of Dr. Wharton in the Chil- dren's Hospital.)