710 WOUNDS OF THE BRAIN. rapid and small, the respiration grows quicker and shallower, and the flushed face becomes pale. The coma may be so deep that operations can be per- formed without anaesthesia, with no evidence of sensation on the part of the patient. The respiration usually ceases before the heart, and the uncon- sciousness continues up to the last moment, gradually increasing. Diagnosis.—Compression of the brain may exist without the character- istic symptoms of the pulse and respiration, and, as Kocher puts it, the surgeon who delays action until the full development of the typical pulse and respiration will often be too late to save his patient. The diagnosis must frequently be made simply from the fact of unconsciousness in connec- tion with the history and the method of its development. In concussion the unconsciousness appears at once ; it tends to lessen with the lapse of time, and it is not quite so deep as in compression. In compression the uncon- sciousness may not appear for a considerable interval after the accident, and it usually has a tendency to grow worse rather than better. It will be seen that it is not simply the condition in which the patient lies at the time when the surgeon sees him which determines the diagnosis, but that it is essential to consider fully the exact mode of development of that condition. Prognosis.—If not relieved by operation, the symptoms of compression usually grow worse and terminate fatally. The pressure may be relieved spontaneously, however, or the brain may grow accustomed to it and a slow recovery may follow. The symptoms may also remain stationary, beiug finally relieved by operation. The prognosis is good if the cause is capable of removal and is removed early, and it is especially good in cases of depressed fracture if there is no other lesion of the brain. Treatment.—The only possible treatment is the mechanical removal of the cause of the compression by an operation. The operation should be done in the first stages, if possible, when the only symptoms are those of irritation, such as restlessness and local twitchings of muscles, and before the retinal changes have gone beyond venous congestion. If the pressure is allowed to continue longer, the brain is liable to suffer from atrophy, calcifi- cation of the nerve-cells, or complete softening, and damage will be caused which cannot be repaired. Wounds and Contusion of the Brain.—In considering the effect of incised wounds of the brain, their situation and direction are matters of the greatest importance. The cortex consists of a mass of cells with pro- longations which extend directly downward into the centrum ovale of the brain to connect with their proper nerves. Incised wounds of the cortex, therefore, so long as they are directed vertically to the surface, even if they extend deeply into the centrum ovale, cause little injury, merely destroying a few fibres or cells. Incised wounds, however, which pass through the cortex parallel or nearly parallel with the external surface, entirely cut off the connection between the cortical parts and the fibres of the centrum ovale. Wounds through the centrum ovale in this direction would also divide a very large number of fibres, and so throw out of action an equally large part of the cortex. Considerable loss of substance may occur in the brain as the result of injury or operation, and, if no important centres exist in the region involved, the effect is not serious, as is shown by the well-