LIGATION OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 382 of this process. (Fig. 285, 6.) The skin and fascia being divided, the inser- tion of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle should be exposed, which is also divided, and the aponeurosis of the splenius is next exposed. This should be opened and the digastric groove felt for, and when the belly of the digas- tric muscle is exposed the artery is brought into view by separating the cellular tissue in the anterior angle of the wound with a director. Ligation of the Temporal Artery.—The temporal artery is the con- tinuation of the external carotid artery. This vessel, after passing through the upper part of the parotid gland, crosses the zygoma posterior to the condyle of the lower jaw and a quarter of an inch in front of the tragus of the ear. The temporal artery is exposed by a vertical incision one inch in length a little in front of the tragus of the ear. (Fig. 285, a.) The skin and dense subcutaneous cellular tissue being divided, the artery should be found about a quarter of an inch in front of the ear. The temporal vein accom- panies the artery and lies nearer to the ear, and in some cases the auriculo- temporal nerve is also in close relation to the artery. The needle should be passed from behind forward. Ligation of the Subclavian Artery.—The subclavian artery arises from the innominate artery on the right side and from the arch of the aorta on the left side. The vessel extends from the sterno-clavicular articula- tion to the lower border of the first rib. The vessel in its course is crossed by the scalenus anticus muscle, and is thereby divided into three surgical regions : the first part from its origin to the scalenus anticus muscle; the second part beneath or covered by this muscle; and the third portion from the external margin of the scalenus anticus muscle to the first rib. (Fig. 286.) The vessel is rarely subjected to operation in either the first or the second part, but is frequently tied in the third part. The left subclavian artery in its first portion is larger and more vertical in its direction than the right subclavian, and is situated more posteriorly; ou account of the difficulty in exposing this portion, and the possibility of injuring the thoracic duct, the ligation of this artery in its first portion has seldom been attempted. The incision for the first portion of the subclavian artery is the same as that for the innominate (Fig. 283, g), and the liga- ture is passed from the outer side, the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves being pressed inward towards the carotid artery. The incision for the second portion of the subclavian artery begins an inch external to the sterno-clavicular articulation, half an inch above and parallel to the clavicle, and is three or four inches in length. The steps of the operation are the same as for the ligation of the third portion of the Relation of the right subclavian artery. (Agnew