HEMATOSALPINX. 1206 are not too strong are broken down with the fingers, but the strong adhesions must be divided with the scissors or knife under the guidance of the eye, for fear of injury to other parts. Bleeding vessels are secured by clamps and tied, and vascular adhesions may be tied before they are divided. The separation of the adhesions should be begun at the fundus of the uterus, if this can be found, and the finger gradually worked down to Douglas's cul- de-sac and then curved upward, following around the border of the mass. When the diseased tube and ovary have been freely separated they may be ligated en masse, like a tumor, the broad ligament and tube forming the pedicle and the ligature placed close to the uterus. The pedicle is then divided. It is preferable, however, to tie the ovarian vessels separately at the outer part of the broad ligament, and then the ovary can be partly de- tached and the size of the pedicle reduced. Some surgeons prefer not to ligate the tube itself, but to isolate it after tying the ovarian vessels and applying ligatures to all bleeding points, and then to divide the tube close to the uterus and cover in the stump with the broad ligament by sutures. When pus escapes from the tubes, and when the infection is recent and an active peritonitis is going on, irrigation and drainage must be employed. If pus escapes, it should be sponged out at once and the cavity irrigated. Pyosalpinx tumors may also be removed by the vagina, the fingers being inserted through an incision into Douglas's cul-de-sac, the adhesions broken down, and the tubes and ovaries brought into the vagina, where they are ligated and cut away. In very bad cases vaginal hysterectomy is wise, and the uterus should be removed first, when the tubes will be more easily reached. The uterus may be found high up and difficult of access, and in such cases it is removed by morcellement, clamping the lateral attachments as the organ is cut away. Eemoval of the uterus, however, should be limited to the very severest cases of pyosalpinx, with complete functional destruc- tion of the pelvic organs, as cures can undoubtedly be obtained without resorting to that extreme measure in ordinary cases. It should be noted that it is generally wise to remove the tubes and ovaries on both sides, even if one appears tolerably healthy at the time of operation, as it very frequently becomes diseased at a later period. Hematosalpinx. Hydrosalpinx—This form of disease is gener- ally unilateral, and occurs in young women. The symptoms of hemato- salpinx and hydrosalpinx are those of a tumor in the pelvis, pressing upon the surrounding organs, displacing the uterus, and sometimes causing pain by the tension of the sac at the menstrual period. Treatment.—A cure may be obtained by simple drainage of the sac after suturing it to the abdominal wall; but this results in a fistula with an annoying discharge of blood at the menses, and complete removal of the tube is preferable. Ovarian Abscess.—Inflammation of the ovary resulting in abscess is usually found in connection with salpingitis, but in rare cases it occurs inde- pendently. In the latter cases a tumor is found upon one side of the uterus, usually globular in shape, with a fairly distinct outline, and there is a pre- vious history of pain in the back and pelvic distress, with the symptoms of pressure upon the bladder or rectum. A rise of temperature may be found in these cases. The treatment is similar to that for pyosalpinx.