IS CHEMOTAXIS. inent, and draw apart so as to allow the leucocytes to pass between them. The vital part of the process is, however, fully demonstrated, and the old theory that the emigration is simply the result of the increased pressure of the blood in the vessels has been given up as an explanation of the emigra- tion in the earlier stages of the inflammation. There can be no doubt that the emigration is due to the amoeboid movement of the cells, and the dis- covery of the phenomenon to which is given the name of chemotaxis affords a sufficient explanation. Chemotaxis.—Chemotaxis is the influence of attraction or repulsion exerted upon amoeboid cells by certain substances. In some cases this attraction appears to be purely mechanical, but it is probably a chemical effect of some kind in most, if not all, instances. Thus, certain low vege- table organisms known as the myxomycetes assume at one stage of their existence the form of a mass of protoplasm with several nuclei, called a Plasmodium, which resembles on a huge scale what pathologists know under the name of giant-cells. If this plasinodiurn is brought near an infusion of decayed leaves it extends its pseudopodia in that direction, dips them into the fluid, and finally passes entirely into it. If, on the other hand, a solution of quinine be brought near it, or be added to this infusion of leaves, the pseudopodia are retracted at once, others are thrown out on the opposite side, and the organism moves away from the solution. This apparent dis- tinction between food and poison is undoubtedly merely a chemico-biologieal influence upon the organism, and there is no reason to doubt that similar influences would act upon the amoeboid cells in the tissues, and even by diffusion through the walls of the blood-vessels. The process of inflamma- tion produces some chemical compound which similarly causes the cells to leave the vessels when there is any inflammatory action in their neighbor- hood, and to find their way by the shortest route to the seat of inflammation. This is especially well seen in the cornea, in which there are no vessels, but if inflammation be excited in its centre, the emigration of leucocytes from the blood-vessels on the edge of that structure is so abundant that within a very short time the inflammatory focus is full of these cells. Diapedesis.—When the circulation becomes very slow and the pressure very high, there is a tendency for the third corpuscles, and even the red corpuscles, to leave the vessels. This is a purely passive process, and is observed only when the changes in the vessel-wall are extreme. Both of these varieties of cells die, and are destroyed in the exudate, the former furnishing the fibrin which is so abundant in some forms of inflammation. This escape of the red corpuscles is known as diapedesis, and is sometimes so extensive as to amount to capillary hemorrhage. Wandering Cells.—The leucocytes direct their course through the tis- sues to the chief point of irritation by reason of chemotaxis, and surround any dead tissue, any point of bacterial growth, or any foreign body which may be the cause. The wandering leucocytes form the pus-cells, and, if they are very numerous, they constitute a purulent or suppurative inflam- mation. If the inflammation has lasted for some time, evidences of growth and multiplication are seen in the fixed cells of the tissues, and their off- spring also add somewhat to the mass of cells which collect at the inflam-