374 POPLITEAL ANEURISM. Femoral Aneurism.—This may develop in the course of the common or the superficial femoral, or the profunda, although it is very rare in the last- mentioned. It is usually sacculated. Fig. 28L an(j js m0Sf- frequently seen in Scarpa's triangle, where it assumes a globular shape. (Fig. 281.) In Hunter's canal it has a flattened shape, froni the limits in which it is confined by the sur- rounding muscles and fascial. There are the usual changes in the pulse below, except when the profunda is the seat of the disease. It may be asso- Femorai a^urism. (Dearer.) ciated ™*>h oedema from venous press- ure, with pain from the near relation- ship of the long saphenous nerve, and with erosion of the pelvis and in- flammation of the hip-joint. Death may be caused by rupture or gangrene, which latter accident is less common than in popliteal aneurism, owing to the freer anastomosis. Treatment.—Aneurism of the common femoral, which appears in the inguinal region, admits of the same treatment as in case of the external iliac. Compression of the external iliac or the common femoral, if there is room above the sac, may first be tried. Ligation of the common femoral was formerly considered a very dangerous procedure, owing to the number of branches given off near the ligature and the consequent liability to secondary hemorrhage ; gangrene was also feared. With asepsis this opera- tion will probably yield much better results. If there is no room to tie the common femoral, the external iliac may be ligated, either extraperitoneally or transperitoneally. If ligation fails, excision of the sac should be practised* Aneurism of the Superficial Femoral.—In aneurism of this vessel proximal compression yields excellent results, as well as in popliteal aneu- rism, and should first be given a trial when feasible ; otherwise ligation of the superficial femoral when it can be done, or, if not, of the common femoral or external iliac, is the best treatment. Macewen has reported a cure by needling, and excision will be found useful, as it has proved successful in the four cases in which it has been tried. Eeid's method is also applicable here. Aneurism of the profunda should be treated by compression of the common femoral, and, if this fails, ligation of the same vessel or of the external iliac. Popliteal Aneurism,—The popliteal artery is the most common seat of aneurism next to the arch of the aorta. It is predisposed to by the stretching and traumatism to which the artery is exposed during movements of the knee, by the fact of its bifurcating at the lower margin of the space, and by the lack of supporting tissue around it. It may be bilateral. It is usually sacculated, appearing as a tumor in the popliteal space, causing pain by pressure on the internal popliteal nerve, and sometimes paralysis in the distribution of this nerve. Owing to the very close relationship of the ar- tery and the vein in this space, oedema and gangrene are common. When it takes a forward direction it erodes the femur, excites a synovitis of the