TUMORS OF THE CESOPHAGUS. 792 of a stricture is proved by the free passage of another bougie or of food to the stomach. A cure has been obtained by dissecting out the sac, but the diagnosis and treatment of this condition are exceedingly difficult. Tumors of the oesophagus are mainly polypi and cancer. Benign tu- mors are rare, and occur chiefly in the form of polypi of fibrous or myxo- matous structure, most commonly seen in the upper part near the larynx, and sometimes slipping up into the pharynx, or even into the mouth. They are rarely multiple. Polypi seldom occasion symptoms requiring operation, but those which appear in the pharynx may be seized with forceps and removed by avulsion. The most common tumor is epithelioma, which develops in annular form with as much contraction as new tissue formation, resulting in the formation of a stricture unless the ulceration is extensive. Epithelioma is most usually found in the lower quarter of the oesophagus, and next in frequency near the larynx. The symptoms are those of gradu- ally increased difficulty in swallowing, occasionally with pain shooting backward into the spine, or with a reflex cough like that caused by aneu- rism. Vomiting is rare, and must not be confounded with the regurgitation of food which has collected in the dilated oesophagus above the stricture. In the later stages emaciation is marked, and the patient practically dies of starvation, although there may also be severe and fatal hemorrhages, as the ulceration of the tumor may erode one of the great vessels. It may also ulcerate into the pleural cavity or a bronchus and cause empyema or pneu- monia. The accessible glands in the neck are seldom enlarged, and second- ary deposits are rare. The location of the stricture may be determined by the passage of a bougie, but this is attended with great risk in these cases on account of the brittle character of the oesophageal walls at the cancerous stricture, and the greatest gentleness must be employed. Endoscopic in- struments have been inveuted for examination of the oesophagus, but the method is not yet practically useful. Treatment.—If the diagnosis can be made very early and the tumor is high up, a radical removal is possible, and has been successfully performed. It has even been suggested to attack the lower oesophagus from behind by resecting several ribs. Life may be prolonged in hopeless cases by the use of permanent catheterization by a tube about six inches long, of the largest calibre that can be passed, and with the upper end funnel-shaped. This tube is introduced through the stricture by a special whalebone bougie and left in place, a fine silk cord being attached to it and brought out at the corner of the patient's mouth. Excellent results have been obtained by the use of these tubes in some cases, the patient gaining weight and being re- lieved from the danger of frequently passing the bougie. The annoyance of the string in the mouth is not very great. Where this treatment is not well borne, or the patient has not sufficient intelligence to carry it out, it may be necessary to maintain nutrition by making a gastric fistula. THYKOID GLAND. The thyroid gland, formerly considered of little consequence, has been proved to play a very important part in the economy of the body. The gland varies greatly in size and shape in different individuals. Super-