772 ANKYLOSIS OF THE JAW. escape into the external auditory meatus. In such cases necrosis or caries of the condyle and ramus of the jaw may occur. Ankylosis, either fibrous or osseous, of the affected joint is apt to occur as a result of suppuration in this articulation. Treatment.—This consists in obtaining rest of the articu- lation by securing the lower jaw firmly to the upper by means of a Barton's bandage, and at the same time counter-irritation should be made over the articulation, followed by the use of warm fomentations or of belladonna and mercurial ointment. The patient should not be allowed to talk, and should be nourished by liquid food. If suppuration occurs, an incision should be made to evacuate the pus. If caries or necrosis of the condyle of the jaw develops, the diseased bone will require removal. Osteo-Arthritis.—This affection of the maxillary articulation is also described as rheumatoid arthritis, and is often associated with a similar affection in other joints of the body. The iuterarticular fibro-cartilage and articular cartilages gradually disappear, and these changes are accompanied by outgrowths of bone. The patient complains of pain and crepitation upon movements of the jaw, and a partial dislocation of the condyles may occur, producing prominence of the chin, and more or less loss of function soon results. Treatment.—This, as in the case of osteo-arthritis of other joints, is extremely unsatisfactory, but mild counter-irritation is often fol- lowed by relief of the pain. Ankylosis of the Jaw.—This condition usually results from suppura- tive arthritis of the temporo-maxillary joint, may involve one or both joints, and may be fibrous or bony in character. The most marked symp- toms are inability to open the mouth or to masticate solid food, so that the patient has to subsist upon a liquid diet. Treatment.—Various operations have been employed, such as division of the neck of the condyles, excision of the condyle, and Esmarch's operation, which consists in removing a wedge-shaped piece of bone from the jaw by an incision just in front of the masseter muscle, with its apex at the alveolar border. If muscular fibres or fascia can be fastened between the ends of the bone, the formation of a false joint is more likely to be secured. The object of these operations is to establish a false joint at the seat of operation. The operations which are followed by the best results are excision of the condyle and Esmarch's operation. Closure of the Jaws.—This may be a temporary spasmodic affection, due to irritation of the fifth cranial nerve, causing reflex irritation of the muscles of mastication, or to the failure of the eruption of the wisdom tooth. Permanent closure of the jaws may result from ankylosis or from cicatricial contraction following ulceration or sloughing of the mouth and cheeks, and this condition not infrequently follows extensive lacerated wounds of those parts and gangrenous stomatitis. Inability to open the mouth and to masticate solid food are the prominent symptoms of this affec- tion. Treatment.—In cases of closure of the jaws which have not been preceded by inflammatory symptoms it will generally be found that the condition is due to the non-eruption of a wisdom tooth, and if an exami- nation shows that this has not appeared, an incision should be made and it should be sought for and removed ; the second molar should be removed