TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF TARSAL JOINTS. 628 the contour of the joint is changed, so that a globular swelling is present at the ankle. Abscesses may form, which, when opened, are likely to leave discharging sinuses. (Fig. 553.) The prognosis is always grave in tuber- culous disease of the ankle-joint, and depends upon the age and constitutional condition of the patient. Treatment.—As in other tuberculous joints, fixation is one of the most important indications in treatment. The joint should be immobilized by a plaster of Paris dressing, or by moulded leather or binders' board splints; care should be taken that the foot is kept at a right angle to the leg, so that if ankylosis occurs it will be in good position. The bandage should be renewed at intervals as the swelling subsides, and a fresh one applied. The patient should also use crutches, to keep the weight off the diseased joint. The injection of iodoform emulsion or chloride of zinc, combined with fixation of the joint, may often be used with good results. When the disease is well advanced and abscesses have formed, these should be opened and drained ; if the swelling continues and the discharge from the sinuses is profuse, and the patient's constitutional condition shows that he is suffering from the profuse discharge, some form of operative treatment, such as erasion, excision, or amputation, should be adopted. Erasion may be first employed, or excision may be preferred, care being taken that all diseased structures, both bony and of the soft parts, are freely removed. Extensive removal of bone is often demanded. The tarsal bones are sometimes extensively affected and require removal, as well as the lower ends of the tibia and fibula. Excision of the ankle in children for tubercu- lous disease is followed by good results, but in adults our experience has been that this operation is not so satisfactory and that amputation is often subsequently required. AFFECTIONS OF THE TARSAL JOINTS. These joints may present simple acute synovitis following traumatism, as well as tuberculous synovitis or arthritis. Acute synovitis of the tarsal articulations usually follows an injury, and presents the symptoms of acute synovitis, pain, swelling, and loss of function. The treatment of this con- dition consists in the use of evaporating lotions and fixation of the inflamed articulation by a splint. Eecovery generally takes place promptly after the joint is put at rest. Tuberculous arthritis of the tarsal articulations is characterized by swelling, which comes on slowly and gradually causes marked change in the shape of the foot; pain may not be a prominent symptom, except in the later stages of the affection; there is loss of function, and the patient is disinclined to use the part. The disease usually runs a slow course, and often caseation takes place, and tuberculous abscesses form, which open upon the surface of the skin and leave discharging sinuses. Treatment. —In the early stage of this affection fixation of the articula- tion should be obtained by the use of moulded leather or binders' board splints, or, better, by a plaster of Paris bandage applied from the toes to a point above the ankle-joint. The injection of iodoform emulsion in conjunc- tion with immobilization may also be employed with good results. After