559 DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. a prominent symptom. A slight prominence can usually be felt immediately behind the malar bone, which is caused by the coronoid process and the tendon of the temporal muscle. Unilateral Dislocation.—In this dislocation one condyle only is dis- placed, in consequence of which the lower jaw is carried towards the oppo- site or uninjured side, giving the chin a twisted appearance; the jaws are somewhat separated, the mouth is held partially open and the jaw is fixed, and a depression is felt in front of the ear on the side of displacement and a prominence on the sound side. The incisor teeth of the lower jaw on the sound side are external to those of the upper jaw. Subluxation.—This affection is often habitual, and the symptoms are sudden immobility of the jaw, coming on while chewing or biting upon hard substances, slight separation of the incisor teeth, and inability to approxi- mate the teeth. It is caused by the interarticidar cartilages slipping behind the condyles and fixing them upon the articular eminences. Diagnosis.—Dislocation of the jaw may be confounded with a fracture of the neck of the condyle. In fracture there is mobility, with a prominence of the fragment below the zygomatic line, and the chin falls towards the injured side, while in dislocation of one condyle there is immobility and the eh in inclines to the opposite side. Treatment.—The patient should be seated in a chair or placed upon a bed, and an assistant should support the head, while the surgeon standing in front of the patient, having protected his thumbs by wrapping them with a piece of muslin, passes them into the mouth and backward until they rest upon the molar teeth of each side. The jaw should first be pressed down- ward, then, by elevating the anterior portion of the bone, the condyles will be drawn into posi- tion by the action of the temporal and masseter muscles. (Fig. 479.) The condyles usually slip into place with an audible sound, and as soon as the surgeon feels that the jaw has changed its position he should remove his thumbs to prevent them from being bitten. In cases of dislocations of some standing, enough force may not be ob- tained by the use of the thumbs, and wooden levers may be employed to depress the jaw at the same time that the pressure is made beneath the chin. Dislocations of the jaw of several weeks' standing have been reduced by simple manipulation. If it is found impossible or diffi- cult to reduce a dislocation of the jaw by reason of the muscular rigidity and contraction, it is well to anaesthetize the patient, when it can usually be reduced without much difficulty. Subluxation of the jaw, if not reduced by the patient by muscular action, can usually be reduced by in- troducing a narrow wooden wedge between the teeth and prying the jaws apart, or the coronoid processes may be pressed downward and backward with the fingers. After the reduction of dislocation of the lower jaw, a Fig. 479. Reduction of dislocation of the lower jaw.