FACIAL OR PARALYTIC TETANUS. 66 the face are so contracted as to produce a sort of grin, in strange contrast with the weary, half-shut, drooping lids. This contraction may remain per- manently to a slight extent after recovery. The temperature rises in severe cases to an extreme degree, even 110° F. (43.3° 0.) having been observed, while 105° F. (40.5° C.) or more is common, and after death it sometimes rises a degree or more higher, 113.5° F. (45.5° 0.) being recorded. In mild cases there is little or no fever. The elevation of temperature is to be ascribed partly to the violent muscular action, and partly to the direct effect of the toxines upon the heat-centres. Sweating is observed in the paroxysms. The pulse in mild cases follows the temperature, growing rapid and feeble as the strength fails ; but in the severe cases it is very weak and rapid from the onset, probably being reduced by the direct effect of the tox- ines upon the circulation. The mind is clear, although apprehensive, and sleeplessness is the rule. Great emaciation sets in, from exhaustion and the difficulty of feeding the patient through the fast-closed jaws. In some eases there is a reflex spasm of the oesophagus and of the glottis. In fact, death by asphyxia during a paroxysm is not unusual, and can generally be ascribed to this cause (as is proved by the fact that tracheotomy usually gives relief), although in some instances it may be due to the tonic contraction of the respiratory muscles and even of the diaphragm. The muscular action is very intense and painful; in fact, ruptures of the muscles or of the tendons are not uncommon. Prognosis.—The cases vary in their severity, the acute cases, with a short incubation period and rapid generalization of the symptoms, being apt to terminate fatally, while the so-called chronic cases, in which the dis- ease usually develops slowly and some time after infection, run a course of from four to twelve weeks, and not infrequently recover. Death has been known to occur within a few hours of the infection, and frequently takes place within one day after the first symptom. If the patient survive for ten days or a fortnight, recovery may be expected. The mortality, as based upon the military records up to 1871, varies from eighty-three to ninety-three per cent. ; but it is probable that it is less at present, with our better understanding of the means for securing asepsis in infected wounds. Facial, Paralytic, or Hydrophobic Tetanus.—One peculiar vari- ety of tetanus deserves separate consideration,—namely, that which follows wounds in the distribution of the cranial nerves, the so-called facial or head tetanus, also known as hydrophobic or paralytic tetanus. It is marked by the occurrence of paralysis in the muscles most affected (usually those sup- plied by the facial nerve) and by reflex spasm of the oesophagus, which is in some cases so marked as closely to resemble hydrophobia. The disease be- gins with contracture of the muscles nearest the injury, on both sides of the face if the wound is in the middle line, otherwise unilateral, followed by spasms, gradually extending to the muscles of the other side, while those first affected become paralyzed. If the infection is severe the symptoms of general tetanus follow, with the usual fatal result, but the mortality of these cases is only fifty-eight per cent., showing that, as a rule, the disease is milder. The paralysis is easily overlooked if not sought for, and in some cases there is