953 APPENDICITIS. of pain in the region of the appendix, with tenderness over it, and even vomiting, but no tumor is to be discovered. The attack passes off under small doses of morphine, the use of a mild purge, and rest in bed, and it is to be distinguished from appendicular colic by the fact that the pain is less acute and the symptoms are of longer duration. The third variety is appendicitis with abscess. In this variety an ulcer develops, or the appendix-wall is slowly penetrated by bacteria, lead- ing to a localized peritonitis, the infection occurring so slowly that adhe- sions have time to form. In such cases the attack may begin acutely with pain and tenderness and vomiting ; or it may begin very gradually, with a little tenderness in the iliac region, some constipation or diarrhoea, and a general feeling of malaise. The pain increases, vomiting sets in, and the temperature rises, occasionally with a chill. The temperature may be very high, and there may even be a chill in cases without abscess, or there may be no fever when suppuration has occurred. The symptoms may increase until the abscess bursts or is incised, or they may subside, the pus be- coming encapsulated. If the abscess is neglected, pyaemia may follow, and the patients who recover are liable to have other attacks. The fourth variety comprises the cases of acute perforation of the ap- pendix. The perforation results from ulceration, or over-distention of an appendix with an impassable stricture. The symptoms are generally very sudden in their onset, the pain being intense, the vomiting persistent, and the tenderness great. A general peritonitis usually follows, although in some cases the acute symptoms may subside and a localized abscess may result. Some cases of perforation also result in peritoneal septicaemia, which produces death, with symptoms of profound toxic poisoning, such as vomiting, diarrhoea, and prostration, ending in collapse, without much pain or tenderness, and occasionally without distention or rigidity of the abdo- men. The first symptom in the ordinary cases with peritonitis is usually pain, often with great collapse, and the vomiting may set in immediately after or may be delayed. The pain may be general over the abdomen or may be referred at first to the region of the stomach or elsewhere instead of to the iliac region, although it speedily becomes localized in the latter place. In some unusual cases it remains constantly upon the left side of the ab- domen or high up in the epigastric region. The tenderness, however, is usu- ally limited from the first to the region of the appendix, and is generally most acute at McBurney's point, which is situated on a line from the ante- rior superior spinous process of the ilium to the umbilicus, two-thirds of the distance from the former, a point corresponding fairly well with the usual situation of the base of the appendix. A very valuable sign is the rigidity of the right rectus muscle as compared with the left, as it is not found in other conditions, except in peritonitis about the gall-bladder. In some cases, even without a general peritonitis, the entire abdomen is rigid. Sometimes there is vesical tenesmus or retention, or pain shooting down the thigh. The right thigh is held flexed in order to relieve pressure, and there may be retraction of the testicle. Occasionally a tumor can be found at the first examination, and its presence is an encouraging sign, for when there are no limiting adhesions no tumor forms. The tumor can sometimes be