1089 RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. some annoying mucous discharge may take place. The true congenital di- verticula are usually found near the base of the bladder as small pouches, very narrow in proportion to their depth, and they seldom attain a large size. These pouches must not be confounded with the pockets which ai'e found in the bladder as a consequence of over-distention and are formed by a hernial protrusion of the mucous membrane between the trabecule of the muscular coat. As they are produced by the stretching of weak places in the bladder-wall, they have a muscular layer as well as one of mucous membrane. The acquired pouches are much more common than the con- genital diverticula. The opening of these pouches into the bladder may be imperfect, and urine collecting in them may decompose and excite inflam- mation or even abscess, and calculi may also form in them. Treatment.—Before attempting to close a patent urachus, the urethra must be made fully sufficient for the escape of the urine. The sinus may then be treated by curetting, cauterization, or a plastic operation. It can also be extirpated by a median laparotomy, the vesical end being closed by sutures. Diverticula have in a few instances been successfully removed by an extraperitoneal laparotomy or by a sacral operation similar to Kraske's for resection of the rectum. Injuries.—The most common injury of the bladder is rupture by a severe blow when it is in the distended condition. This injury is most frequently the result of a kick of a horse or of a man, or of a fall across a post or some article of furniture. It is most likely to occur in intoxication, because of neglect to empty the bladder and the relaxation of the abdominal muscles. An ulcerated or thinned bladder may rupture from internal pressure from retention, without external force. The distended bladder bursts from the pressure of the contained fluid under the force of the blow, and the rupture is usually situated near the fundus, although it may take place on the an- terior wall, or even on the sides. The intraperitoneal ruptures outnumber the extraperitoneal in the proportion of three to one. The bladder may also be involved in stab wounds and gunshot wounds, and in cases of fracture of the pelvis the broken bone may lacerate the organ. In all these latter cases, even when there is an external wound, it is usually so small that the symp- toms and treatment do not differ from those of rupture of the bladder, except in the necessity for free incision of the wound to allow of drainage. Symptoms.—When rupture has taken place, the urine escapes into the pelvic connective tissue or into the peritoneal cavity. The bladder is empty, although no urine is passed, but when the rupture is small some urine may collect from time to time in the bladder and be evacuated. If any urine is passed it will contain blood, and blood may be evacuated eveu when no urine can be passed. There is pain, usually referred to the end of the penis, and there may be some vesical tenesmus. When a catheter is introduced it may withdraw urine from the cavity of the bladder, and after the flow has ceased a deeper introduction may produce a new supply of urine, the point of the instrument having penetrated the vesical wound and entered the col- lection of the fluid outside. The extravasated urine forms a more or less distinct tumor when the rupture is extraperitoneal, the effusion being lim- ited by the stretched peritoneum and extending well up to Poupart's liga- 69