257 ADMINISTRATION OF CHLOROFORM. of hot water will often relieve the condition, or the administration of cocaine hydrochlorate, gr. }, with crushed ice, repeated two or three times, or the use of crushed ice with champagne or brandy, may be followed by satis- factory results. The administration of ether vapor by the rectum was employed a few years ago ; but, although anaesthesia was quickly produced, dangerous symp- toms often followed its use, as its absorption after the vapor had once been introduced into the rectum could not be controlled, so that this method of administration has been abandoned. CHLOROFORM. Chloroform has been shown to be a more dangerous anaesthetic than ether, and, although it is widely employed in Great Britain and upon the Continent, it is not generally used in this country except in certain districts, the South and Soiithwest, and here its use is followed by fewer fatalities than in Northern climates, so that it has been suggested that it is safer in warm climates. In Germany it is rapidly being superseded by ether. A patient should be prepared for the administration of chloroform in the same way as for the use of ether, similar precautions being taken as regards the removal of false teeth and foreign bodies from the mouth and of tight clothing from the neck or chest. Clinical experience has demonstrated the fact that chloroform can be used in children and aged subjects and in puerperal cases with comparative safety. It is also to be preferred to ether in patients suffering with advanced renal disease, emphysema of the lungs, and chronic bronchitis. It is pre- ferred to ether by some surgeons in operations about the mouth where the actual cautery is employed, on account of its less inflammable character. Administration of Chloroform.—Chloroform may be administered by pouring from half a drachm to a drachm upon a folded towel, which should be held at first a few inches from the mouth and nose, and then gradually brought nearer, but should not be allowed to come in contact with the skin, as its irritating action will blister the surface. In admin- istering chloroform the anaesthetizer should remember that one of the dangers in its use is the too great con- centration of its vapor, and should Fig. 179. therefore be careful to see that a suf- ficient admixture of atmospheric air takes place. Chloroform may also be adminis- tered with Esmarch's inhaler (Fig. 179), which consists of a wire frame Covered with gauze, Or by the USe Of Esmaroh's chloroform inhaler. Clover's inhaler; the object of the latter inhaler being to regulate the amount of chloroform inhaled and to secure a proper admixture of atmospheric air. During the administration of chloroform the anaesthetizer should watch carefully the character of the respiration, the pulse, and the pupils, and should not for a moment have his attention diverted from the patient. 17