486 FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR. passed at intervals under the limb and body and around the splints and bran-bags. (Fig. 409.) The heel is saved from pressure by placing a pad of oakum or cotton under the tendo Achillis, and after the splints have been brought into place the strips of bandage are firmly tied, and a weight of ten or twelve pounds is attached to the extending cord. The foot of the bed is raised, to prevent the patient from slipping downward, and to allow the weight of the body to act as a counter-extending force. Fig. 409. Dressing for fracture of the shall of the femur. Volkmann's slide may be employed to hold the foot in place and to make the extension more effective. After the application of the dressing the thigh should be slightly abducted. During the after-treatment of frac- tures of the shaft of the femur the surgeon should see that the splints and bran-bags are kept firmly in place and that the foot does not roll out- ward. This is accomplished by untying the strips and readjusting the bags, and then bringing up the splints and securing them in position by fastening the strips. The extension apparatus does not require renewal during the course of treatment. The extension apparatus and splints are kept in position for from four to six weeks. At the end of this time union at the seat of fracture is usually quite firm, so that they may be removed, and the fracture may then be supported by moulded pasteboard splints, or by the application of a plaster of Paris splint, for several weeks longer. At the end of eight weeks it is safe to allow the patient to be up and about on crutches. Lateral support in fractures of the shaft of the femur may also be supplied by the use of a long external sand-bag and a short internal one, in place of the corresponding long and short splints and bran-bags. If care is taken that the sand-bags are kept accurately in contact with the limb and body, excellent results may be obtained by this form of dressing. After con- siderable experience with different methods of furnishing lateral support in fracture of the shaft of the femur, we are satisfied that angular deformity is less likely to result where the splints and bran-bags are employed. The plaster of Paris dressing, including the foot, leg, thigh, and pelvis, is em- ployed by some surgeons in this fracture, the limb being kept well extended until the plaster is thoroughly dry. This dressing is also applied in the ambulant method of treatment, which will be described later.