AFTER-TREATMENT OF INTUBATION. 871 The mistake which inexperienced operators make in attempting to intro- duce the intubation-tube consists in not hugging the posterior surface of the tongue closely, so that they pass the tube over the epiglottis into the pharynx. The most serious complication which is apt to occur during the introduction of the intubation-tube is the detachment and pushing of a mass of membrane in front of the tube into the trachea. If this is too large to be expelled through the tube, the breathing is suddenly arrested ; the tube should then be removed at once, and if the mass of membrane does not escape upon the expiratory efforts of the patient, the trachea should be rapidly opened. So much do we dread this accident, which has occurred to us in one case only, that we never introduce an intubation-tube without having at hand the necessary instruments to do a tracheotomy if it should be suddenly required. Some operators keep the loop attached to the tube during the time it is retained in the larynx, so that by drawing upon it the nurse or attendant is able to withdraw the tube instantly if it should become obstructed with membrane, or be coughed xxp, and pass into the pharynx or the oesophagus. If it is decided to allow the silk loop to remain in place, it is well to sink the strands well down to the gum between the first molar and premolar teeth of the lower jaw, to prevent the silk from being bitten in two by the child, which often occurs if it is left free in the mouth. As the presence of the silk string usually causes much irritation of the pharynx, we prefer to with- draw it as soon as the tube is securely placed in the larynx, and remove the tube by means of the extracting instrument when its removal is required. We generally allow the string to remain in place for ten or fifteen minutes, securing it loosely about the ear, and at the end of this time, if the cough- ing has diminished and the tube has not been expelled, we introduce the finger into the mouth and feel that the tube is in its proper place, and then, while the tip of the finger rests upon the edge of the tube, divide the silk loop and withdraw it. After-Treatment.—After the operation of intubation the patient should, if possible, be kept in a warm room in which a certain amount of moisture is maintained by the use of boiling water or by a steam spray. If there is little tendency to expectoration through the tube, the soda solution previously mentioned may be enrployed with advantage. One of the great- est troubles after intubation of the larynx is the satisfactory feeding of the patient and the administration of liquid medicines. Liquids, as a rule, are not swallowed well, a portion of them escaping into the tube and producing violent coughing. Cases are occasionally met with in which the swallowing of liquids does not seem to be seriously interfered with by the presence of the intubation-tube, but in the majority of cases this symptom is a trouble- some one. We usually order a diet of semi-solids, such as corn-starch, soft- boiled eggs, mush, and junket, which are often swallowed without diffi- culty. The taking of a sufficient quantity of water often causes trouble, and in such cases the child may be allowed to swallow small pieces of ice, or water may be regularly administered by the rectum. In cases where there is difficulty in swallowing even this form of diet, it may be necessary to resort to nutritious enemata or the use of the stomach-tube for a few days.