419 FELON. by extension from without; they may be benign, malignant, or syphilitic. Occasionally a small fibroma is developed in a tendon, which will produce a very marked amount of disability. Treatment.—The treatment of tumors of tendons consists in their removal by a careful dissection. Ossification of Tendons.—Bone deposits are occasionally found in tendons, being most apt to occur at their points of insertion. This affec- tion may result from rheumatoid arthritis, or from constant and prolonged irritation, or from the deposit of callus following injury of contiguous bones. Unless marked disability results from this affection, no operative treatment should be undertaken. Felon, or Paronychia.—This is an infective cellulitis involving the soft parts of the fingers, usually the pulp over the distal phalanx, which often follows slight traumatisms, such as punctures, bruises, or scratches, and may ultimately involve the sheath of the tendons and the periosteum, causing necrosis of the distal phalanx. This accident is more apt to occur- in case of the distal phalanx from the fact that it has no distinct periosteum, the vessels supplying the bone ramifying in the dense fibro-adipose tissue of the pulp of the finger. When the tendon and its sheath are involved, a suppurative teno-synovitis is set up, which may terminate in sloughing of the tendon or in palmar abscess. There are two varieties of this affection, the superficial and the deep. A superficial felon usually involves the tissue around and under the nail, may affect several fingers in turn, and is seen in debilitated subjects, and often in children. It is accompanied by pain, swelling, and redness of the tissues around the nail; suppuration occurs, and granulations protrude around the nail, whose vitality is so much impaired that it is apt to exfoliate. Treatment.—The treatment of superficial felon consists in the applica- tion of a warm antiseptic gauze dressing and incision as soon as the presence of pus is indicated. If the vitality of the nail is destroyed, and it is surrounded by granulations and Fig. 317. is keeping up irritation, it should be removed, and the granulations dusted with powdered nitrate of lead and covered with a dry antiseptic gauze dressing. Deep Felon.—The symptoms of deep felon are swelling, tension, fever, and throbbing pain of a very severe character, which is increased by the de- pendent position of the hand. (Fig. 317.) Treatment.—The abortive treatment by the use of tincture of iodine or nitrate of silver is usually unsuccessful. Hot fomentations or antiseptic poul- tices often relieve pain, and may be employed for twenty-four hours; but the most satisfactory treat- ment consists in free incision, which is especially Felon. (Liston.) important if the distal phalanx be involved, to pre- vent necrosis of the bone. The incision should be made with aseptic precautions, and carried down to the bone. If the disease involves higher parts of the finger, the sheath of the tendon should be opened in the in-