FOLLICULAR ABSCESS OF THE MEATUS. 837 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS. Wounds of the Meatus.—These may result from foreign bodies forced into the ear, or from blows or falls rupturing the skin lining the canal. Free hemorrhage usually results from such wounds. The meatus should be carefully irrigated with a warm antiseptic solution or with steril- ized water to remove the blood, the surface of the wound covered with powdered boric acid or iodoform, and a plug of antiseptic cotton worn in the external meatus for a few days. Follicular Abscess, or Furuncle of the Meatus.—This is a very common and painful affection of the ear, which results from the infec- tion of the hair-follicles by septic matter, usually introduced in cleaning the ear with a stick or a pencil. When infection occurs, itching is first noticed, soon followed by severe pain and marked swelling of the soft parts in the auditory canal. If the furuncle is situated deeply in the canal, it may be difficult to expose it to view even by the use of a speculum. Treatment.—This consists in syringing the canal with hot water or mopping it with peroxide of hydrogen, and the use of a cotton tanipon saturated with a ten per cent, solution of ichthyol; as soou as pointing has occurred the furuncle should be incised, antiseptic irrigation employed, and ichthyol subsequently applied, pressure being made with a cotton tampon. Diffused Inflammation, or Cellulitis of the External Meatus.— This is a not uncommon affection; it may result from infection, causes marked swelling of the soft parts of the meatus, and may be accompanied by a purulent discharge ; if the discharge contains mucus as well as pus, it is an evidence that the tympanic and accessory cavities are also inflamed. The symptoms of diffused inflammation of the external auditory meatus are rapid swelling of the soft parts, narrowing of the canal, and intense pain. Treatment.—This consists in the use of injections of warm antiseptic solu- tions ; if the pain is not soon relieved a few deep incisions should be made through the swollen tissues, and warm antiseptic irrigation subsequently employed. Tumors of the Auditory Meatus.—Sebaceous Cysts.—These are occasionally seen occupying the outer portion of the canal, and are similar to those observed upon the scalp and other parts of the body. As they increase in size they close the canal and produce tinnitus and deafness, and, if not removed by operation or spontaneous rupture, may result in necrosis or caries of the surrounding bone from the pressure which they cause. The treatment consists in incising the wall of the tumor and turn- ing out its contents, and, if possible, dissecting out the sac ; if this is not practicable, the inner surface of the sac should be cauterized or curetted and loosely packed with gauze. Epithelioma of the External Auditory Meatus.— This growth may develop in the auditory canal, or the canal may be involved by extension of a growth from without. When the growth originates in the canal, pain is a very prominent symptom. After exposing the canal with a speculum the growth can be seen ; a portion may be removed by forceps or a curette