183 SPICA BANDAGE OF THE GROIN. repeated, each turn ascending and covering in two-thirds of the previous turn, until five or six complete turns have been made, and the extremity should be secured at the point where it ends. (Fig. 115.) Double Spica Bandage of the Groins.—In applying this bandage the roller should be placed on the abdomen just above the iliac crest, and secured by one or two circular turns; the bandage is then carried from a point just below the crest of the right ilium obliquely across the lower por- tion of the abdomen to the outer portion of the left thigh, passed around this and brought up between the scrotum and the thigh, and carried ob- liquely over the groin, crossing the previous turn in the median line; it should then be conducted to a point just below the crest of the ilium of the same side, and carried around the pelvis to the same point on the opposite side, and from this point it should be made to pass obliquely over the groin to the inner side of the right thigh, passing around this and coming up on its outer side, crossing the previous turn at the middle line of the groin, and be carried obliquely across the groin and the lower part of the abdomen to the crest of the ilium on the opposite side. These turns should be repeated, each turn covering in two-thirds of the previous one, until both groins have been covered. (Fig. 116.) Figure-of-Eight Bandage of the Knee.—In applying this bandage the initial extremity of the roller should be placed upon the thigh three inches above the patella, and secured by two or three circular turns; the bandage should then be conducted over the outer condyle of the femur, cross- ing the popliteal space, to the inner border of the tibia, and around the anterior surface below the tubercle and the head of the fibula, where a circular turn should be made; the roller should then be carried obliquely across the popliteal space to the inner condyle of the femur, crossing the previous turn, and be conducted around the front of the thigh to the outer condyle. These turns should be repeated, ascending from the leg to the thigh, and descending from the thigh to the leg, and the bandage should be finished by a circular turn over the patella. (Fig. 117.) This bandage Fig. 116. Fig. 115.