TREATMENT OF TUBERCULAR ARTHRITIS. 612 Prognosis.—This depends largely upon the general condition of the patient and the extent of the local disease. When the disease involves only a small portion of a joint, recovery may take place with more or less anky- losis and impairment of joint function. In cases, however, in which there is marked involvement of the joint, the destruction may be so extensive that recovery can take place only with a joint in which marked restriction of motion or ankylosis is present, the fixation of the joint resulting from firm fibrous or bony ankylosis. The development of abscess or sinus may result in caries or necrosis of the articular ends of the bones. Many cases of joint tuberculosis run a course of years and finally recover with more or less impairment of motion. In tuberculosis of joints there are three distinct stages which are recognized during the course of the affection : 1, muscular spasm or rigidity ; 2, effusion or granulation ; 3, abscess. The caseation, if extensive, is accompanied by constitutional disturbance of more or less severity, and if septic infection occurs it involves additional risks to the patient. During the course of the disease the patient is also in danger of the development of general or visceral tuberculosis, and, in cases of prolonged suppuration, of amyloid disease. Treatment.—A spontaneous cure in cases of joint tuberculosis is rare, and if it does occur it usually results in such marked deformity of the joint that a subsequent operation has to be undertaken to render the part useful. The most important point in the treatment is to secure complete rest or immobilization and favor ankylosis of the joint, as the disease is always aggravated by movements of the joint. Early immobilization of a tubercu- lous joint secures perfect rest, and at the same time tends to prevent subse- quent deformity. Immobilization of a joint may be accomplished by the use of orthopaedic apparatus or by the application of a plaster of Paris bandage, which should be applied over a flannel bandage. The plaster bandage is often so applied that it does not completely immobilize the joint. In applying the plaster of Paris bandage to fix the knee-joint the bandage should extend from the toes to the groin ; for the ankle, the bandage should extend from the toes to the knee. To secure fixation to the hip-joint, the patient should stand with his sound limb upon a low stool, so that extension of the diseased joint is made by the weight of the limb, and the plaster bandage should envelop the limb from the toes to the pelvis, which should be surrounded by turns of the bandage, or the patient's pelvis should be sup- ported upon an apparatus (shown in Fig. 125), extension at the same time being made upon the limb while the bandage is carried around the pelvis. In immobilizing the shoulder-joint the arm should be fastened to the side, and in the elbow the plaster bandage is applied to the arm, which is flexed to a right angle, from the wrist to the shoulder. In fixing tuberculous joints the surgeon should always bear in mind the possibility of ankylosis, and see that the joint is fixed in such a position that it will be most useful if this result occurred. Fixation of the diseased joint may also be secured by the use of moulded splints of binders' board or of felt, and by the use of mechanical apparatus, which can be so constructed that it fixes the joint and at the same time makes traction upon it so as to separate the diseased joint surfaces. The latter form of splint is one which is largely employed