266 METHODS OF AMPUTATING. the tissues down to the bone, or merely the skin and superficial fascia, the deep structures being divided by a circular incision. The flaps may have a curved outline, or may be rectangular in shape. Transfixion Method.—In amputation by transfixion (Fig. 188) the surgeon grasps the limb aud enters the point of a loug knife into the tissues Fig. 188. Forming flaps by transfixion. (Agnew.) at the side nearest himself, pushing it across and around the bones, bring- ing it out through the skiu diametrically opposite its point of entrance. He then shapes the flap by cutting downward with a rapid sawing motion until a flap of sufficient length has been formed, and next cuts obliquely outward until all the tissues are divided. The flap being turned up and held out of the way, he re-enters his knife at the same point at the opposite side of the bone or bones, and cuts a second flap of equal length in the same manner. Modified Circular or Oval Method.—In this form of amputation two oval skin-flaps, anteroposterior or lateral, are turned up (Fig. 189), and the muscles are next divided down to the bone by a circular sweep of the knife. Fig. 189. Amputation by oval flaps. (Agnew.) This form of amputation is at the present time very widely employed, and is especially to be recommended in cases of amputations in muscular limbs. Elliptical Method.—This is a form of the oval method of amputation which is employed in amputations at the knee- and elbow-joints. The in- cision in this form of amputation forms a perfect ellipse, coming below the joint on the front or outside of the limb, the resulting flap, folded upon itself, making a curved cicatrix and furnishing an excellent covering for the stump. Teale's Method by Rectangular Flaps.—In this method of amputa- tion two flaps are made of unequal length, and the incisions are so planned that the shorter flap contains the more important vessel or vessels. The flaps are cut of equal widths; the length of the long flap should be one- half the circumference of the limb at the point where the bone is to be divided, and that of the short flap should be one-eighth of the circuni-