METHODS OF STERILIZATION. 157 water to remove the oxalic acid which may adhere to the skin. Weir recom- mends the following method of sterilizing the hands. After washing them with green soap, put a tablespoonful of commercial chloride of lime and a piece of carbonate of soda (1 X i inch) in the hand, with enough water to make a paste. Bub this into a thick cream, which should be rubbed into the hands until the grains of lime disappear and the skin feels cool. The hands are then rinsed in sterile water. Sterilization of Instruments.—The sterilization of instruments can be best accomplished by dry or moist heat; they can be placed in a hot-air sterilizer or baked for twenty minutes in a hot oven. Sterilization of instru- ments by dry heat or baking is not often employed, as it is apt to spoil the temper of the steel. Instruments may be sterilized by the method suggested by Schimmelbusch, now almost universally employed, which consists in boiling them for fifteen minutes in water to which a tablespoonful of wash- ing soda (carbonate of sodium) has been added for each quart of water ; this prevents the rusting of the instruments, and also makes the water a better solvent for any fatty matter which may be upon the instruments, thus in- creasing the sterilizing effect of the heat. If wooden-handled instruments are used, which would be injured by boiling, they should first be thoroughly scrubbed with soap and water and a brush, and after having been rinsed in sterilized water they should be placed in a tray and covered with a 1 to 20 watery solution of carbolic acid, and allowed to remain in this solution for at least half an hour ; before being used they should be transferred to a solution of sterilized water, which will prevent the benumbing effect of the carbolic solution upon the surgeon's hands. Sterilization of Catheters is a matter of great importance. These, if made of metal or glass, may be sterilized by boiling ; if of rubber or gum, they should be thoroughly washed and soaked for several hours in a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution, and should be washed in sterilized water before being used. Preparation of the Patient for Aseptic Operation.—When possible it is well that the patient be given a general bath the night before the operation, and the skin surrounding the site of operation should be rubbed over with cotton saturated with spirit of turpentine, and should then be thoroughly scrubbed with a brush and soap and water; or a soap poultice may be applied to the part for a few hours before the final steriliza- tion with alcohol and bichloride is made. After this scrubbing has been continued for a few minutes the skin is washed with alcohol, and if turpen- tine lias not been used it is better to rub the skin over with ether, then wash it with sterilized water and apply to the surface a folded towel or gauze dres sing saturated with a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution ; or if a moist dress- ing is uncomfortable to the patient, a few layers of sterilized gauze should be placed over the surface and held in place by a bandage. A similar washing and preparation of the seat of operation should be made upon the next morning, a few hours before the time fixed for operation. It is well to remember that regions of the body which contain hair and numerous sweat-glands, such as the axilla, navel, scrotum, groin, and the creases about the joints, are those in which micro-organisms grow with the