PLASTER OF PARIS DRESSINGS. 190 Moulded Plaster Splints.—The application of the ordinary plaster dressings to parts irregular in shape is often difficult, and it is sometimes desirable to have a splint which can be removed with ease. These indica- tions are best met by the application of moulded plaster splints, which may be made by cutting a paper pattern of the part to be covered in and then cutting pieces of crinoline to conform to this pattern; eight or ten pieces The dressing is then folded up, dipped in water, squeezed out, and moulded to the part, and held in position by the turns of a bandage. The edges should slightly overlap, and in applying the dressing a strip of waxed paper should be placed under the overlapping edge to prevent its adhesion to the dressing below, and thus facilitate its removal. Fenestrated Plaster Dressing.—When a plaster of Paris dressing is applied to a part where there is a wound, it is well to make some pro- vision whereby the plaster dressing over the site of the wound can be cut away, making a trap or window through which the wound can be inspected or dressed if necessary. To accomplish this, before applying the plaster a compress of lint or gauze should be placed over the wound, which when the dressing is completed forms a projection upon its surface, indicating the position of the wound, and which also allows the surgeon to cut away the dressing without injuring the skin below. These traps may be cut out after the bandage is partially set, or after it has become hard. Removal of Plaster of Paris from the Hands.—The difficulty of removing plaster of Paris from the hands of the surgeon is one objection to the use of the plaster dressings, as is also the harsh condition in which the skin of the hands is left after its removal. This objection may be readily overcome if the hands are washed in a solution of carbonate of sodium (washing soda), a tablespoonfnl to a basin of water, which will readily re- move the plaster and leave the skin in a comfortable condition. Removal of the Plaster of Paris Bandage.—This is sometimes a matter of difficulty, and may be a source of discomfort to the patient if it has to be done before the parts below are consolidated. When the plaster bandage is applied to obtain a cast of the part, or when its removal will probably be necessary in a few days, a strip of sheet-lead half an inch in width is placed over the flannel bandage so that it will project at each end beyond the plaster dressing when applied. The plaster bandage is then applied, and when it is partially set it can be readily cut through upon this Interrupted plaster of Paris dressing. (Stiinson.) Fig. 127. will usually form a splint of sufficient thickness. One of these pieces of crinoline is laid upon a table and dry plaster is rubbed into its meshes, another is laid upon this and plaster is applied to it in the same way, and so on until all the pieces have been placed in position, one over the other, with plaster rubbed into their meshes.