990 RADICAL CURE OF HERNIA. guided, the fluid may be thrown into the peritoneal cavity : hence the method is not free from danger. Operations for the Radical Cure of Inguinal Hernia.—Of the operative methods recommended for the radical cure of inguinal hernia it is unnecessary to describe more than five. To prepare the patient for operation the bowels must be thoroughly evacuated, and the pubes, scrotum, and labia shaved and sterilized as usual. The incision is to be a free one, thoroughly exposing the ring to be sutured, but it is unnecessary to make it the full length of the sac, as the latter will readily strip out of its loose cellular bed. (1) Czerny's Method.—In this operation the sac is dissected out, ligated, and cut away, and the external ring closed by sutures. (2) Macewen's Method.—Macewen improved upon this method by including the conjoined tendon in the sutures. He opened the sac, returned the contents, and bluntly dissected a space between the peritoneum and the abdominal wall as a bed for the sac. He next passed a continuous suture back and forth through the sac, entering at its lower end and coming out at its neck. The needle was then made to carry the end of this suture through the abdominal wall above the internal ring, the sac was crowded into the space previously dissected, being folded up by the suture, and the latter was secured to the skin. The conjoined tendon was then sought, and sutures passed between it and Poupart's ligament, thus reducing the size of the in- ternal ring. The cord was allowed to remain close to the pubic bone at the lower end of the opening, and this was the weak point in the method, as a fresh protrusion easily descended along the cord as it passed directly through the abdominal wall instead of obliquely. (3) Bassini's Method.—Bassini frees the sac, ligates it very high up, pulling it down so as to draw down the peritoneum on all sides in order that the peritoneum shall be gathered in at the neck of the sac by the ligature and present a perfectly flat, smooth surface inter nail y, without any depression or pouch which might favor a recurrence. The sac is then cut away. The anterior wall of the canal is then incised up to the level of the internal ring, and the cord is drawn upward and outward so that it passes through the upper part of the wound ; the conjoined tendon is then sutured to the internal surface of Poupart's ligament below the point where the cord passes through the abdominal wall, thus forming a poste- rior wall for the canal. The cord is then laid upon the sutured conjoined tendon, and the divided aponeurosis of the external oblique is united in front of it so that the normal oblique structure of the canal is very nearly reproduced. (4) In Halsted's method, which is similar to Bassini's, the external wall of the canal is incised up to the internal ring, and the entire thickness of the abdominal wall is divided obliquely for an inch or more higher. The peri- toneal opening into the sac is sutured. The muscular layers of the wound are united with mattress sutures, leaving the cord passing out of the upper angle. All but one or two of the veins of the cord are cut away to reduce its size. The skin is then united over the cord, which lies directly under it on the external oblique.