575 DISLOCATIONS OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. Posterior dislocation of the ulna. (After Agnew Dislocation of the Ulna from the Humerus.—This consists in a posterior displacement of the ulna upon the humerus, the ra- Fig. 501. dins maintaining its normal position, the coronoid process sliding backward to the olec- ranon fossa, or resting upon the posterior face of the internal con- dyle of the humerus. (Fig. 501.) The treatment of this dislocation is similar to that for dislocation of both bones of the forearm. Dislocation of the Radius and Ulna.—This dislocation may take place backward, forward, outward, and inward. Backward Dislocation of the Radius and Ulna at the Elbow.— This is one of the most common dislocations at the elbow-joint, and results from force directly or indirectly applied to the hand and forearm. The an- terior and lateral ligaments are usually torn, the coronoid process of the ulna drops into the olecranon fossa of the humerus, and the radius occupies the posterior surface of the external condyle ; the tendons of the biceps and the brachialis antieus muscles are stretched over the articular surface of the hu- merus. (Fig. 502.) Symptoms.—The symptoms of this dislocation are anterior shortening of the forearm, with a marked promi- nence in front of the elbow, caused by the lower extremity of the humerus, and a prominence behind the elbow Fig. 502. Fig. 503. Backward dislocation of the bones of the forearm. (Agnew.) Deformity in backward dislocation of the bones of the forearm. (Fig. 503), caused by the olecranon process of the ulna and the tendon of the triceps ; the elbow is rigid, and flexion and extension are difficult. Diagnosis.—Posterior dislocations at the elbow are very frequently con- founded with fractures of the condyles of the humerus or supracondyloid fracture of the humerus. In dislocation there is rigidity of the elbow, with a prominence in front of and another behind the elbow. The relative position of the olecranon process and the two condyles of the humerus is