217 LACERATED WOUNDS. iodoform collodion, several layers of strips and collodion being applied so that the whole wound is covered by an antiseptic scab of gauze and iodoform collodion. Lacerated. Wounds.—Lacerated wounds are such as have resulted from blunt instruments which have torn the skin and subcutaneous tis- sues. These wounds result from machinery accidents or from heavy bodies passing over the parts, as the wheels of wagons or cars, and present irregu- lar and jagged edges with extensive laceration of the subcutaneous tissues, and are also apt to contain a considerable quantity of foreign matter which has been ground into the tissues. The most serious lacerated wounds occur as the result of machinery accidents, the extremities or other portions of the body being caught by belting or drawn between cog-wheels or rollers, or the hands being caught in the picking machines employed in cotton or woollen mills. As the result of such injuries the parts may be com- pletely disorganized, or avulsion of a greater or lesser portion of the limb may occur. In such wounds extensive removal of the skin may occur without serious injury to the deeper parts. Extensive lacerations of the body are also seen as the results of railway accidents and from the body being caught in the fall of timbers, stones, or earth, or in blasting acci- dents. The pain in lacerated wounds is usually of a dull character, and the bleeding is not apt to be profuse unless large vessels have been torn, it being, as a rule, controlled by the twisting and bruising of the vessels. Secondary hemorrhage is, however, likely to occur in this variety of wounds, particularly if infection and sloughing take place. We have seen the femoral artery exposed in a case of avulsion of the thigh from railroad injury, and although it pulsated to within an inch or two of its divided ex- tremity not a drop of blood escaped from it. In this variety of wounds the vitality of the tissues is much impaired, so that sloughing to a greater or lesser extent is apt to occur. Shock is often well developed in severe lacerated wounds. Lacerated wounds usually heal by granulation, except when they occur in a very vascular part, such as the face, in which case union by adhesion may result. Treatment.—In the treatment of lacerated wounds the first indication is to arrest hemorrhage, if it is present to any considerable extent; the wounds should next be irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution or nor- mal salt solution, to remove blood-clots and any foreign bodies which may be present, and the skin surrounding the wounds should be rubbed over with spirit of turpentine, and next with soap and water, and finally irrigated with bichloride solution. Many lacerated wounds, especially those which result from machinery and railroad accidents, have grease, dirt, and cinders ground into the tissues, and it is often a difficult matter to remove these entirely. Turpentine may be employed to dissolve the grease, and soap and water should be freely used, followed by a 1 to 2000 bichloride solu- tion. Much of the foreign matter may be removed by forceps and a curette, and it is sometimes necessary to trim away with scissors tissue which has dirt so thoroughly incorporated with it that it cannot be cleansed. Divided tendons, nerves, or muscles should be brought together by sutures. When the wound has been cleansed as thoroughly as possible, the question of ap-