1166 ATRESIA OF THE HYMEN. the cervix being single. Very rarely a double uterus is found with two sep- arate vaginae. Eeduplication of the ovaries and tubes is one of the rarest of these deformities. The condition usually needs no treatment, except that division of the vaginal septum may be necessary to facilitate sexual inter- course or parturition. True hermaphroditism is a rare deformity, the great majority of these cases being, as already mentioned, instances of hypo- spadias in the male. A supernumerary ovary is a very rare occurrence. Among the congenital anomalies should be mentioned atresia or stricture of the cervix, and hypertrophic elongation of that organ. Atresia occasions the same menstrual retention as an imperforate vagina or hymen, and requires incision for its relief. Stenosis of the cervical canal is apt to be a cause of endometritis and its more serious complications if infection occurs, as it prevents free drainage of the secretions. It should be treated by dilatation, aided, if necessary, by superficial incisions of the wall of the canal. The dilatation may be accomplished by repeated introductions of dilating sounds, or may be made in one sitting by means of the Goodell- Ellinger dilator. The same treatment is indicated in cases of obstruction due to sharp congenital flexions, and a stem pessary should be worn after- wards. An elongated cervix may prevent conception. It may even pro- ject beyond the vulva, and should be treated by amputation of the redun- dant part, the canal being slit open to insure an os of sufficient size. Adherent Labia.—The labia are often adherent in the infant, simulating atresia of the vulva, but can usually be separated by a blunt instrument like a director, although the use of the knife is occasionally necessary. Atresia of the Hymen.—The most common malformation is atresia of the hymen. (Fig. 877.) The opening in the hymen should normally be of considerable size. In some cases it is very narrow, reduced to a pin-head, or even absent. When the hymen is imperforate and menstruation begins at puberty, the discharge collects behind it, distends the vagina, carries the uterus up, and even distends that organ, producing large tumors which reach half-way to the umbilicus (hsematometra). (Fig. 878.) The symptoms Fi«. 878. Imperforate hymen. (Hirst.) Uterus distended with blood from imperforate hymen. (Hirst.)