403 NEURORRHAPHY. tions, and counter-irritation by means of blisters or the cautery. If after the use of these remedies for a reasonable time the symptoms persist, the nerve should be exposed at the seat of injury and nerve-stretching should be practised. Partial Division of Nerves.—It is probable that partial division of nerves is much more common than is generally suspected in subcutaneous wounds, and that the slight disturbance that occurs in such cases is due to the fact that the uncut fibres prevent retraction of the severed portions of the ner^e, and union of the divided portions takes place in a short time. Treatment.—If a partially divided nerve is exposed in a wound, the severed portions should be approximated by sutures. Secondary suturing of partially divided nerves may be undertaken if the disturbances of sen- sation and motion following the injury are marked, and this procedure is accomplished by exposing the nerve at the seat of injury and removing the cicatricial tissue surrounding it, and if little nerve-tissue is found to be present the nerve should be resected and the ends united by sutures. If only a small portion of the nerve is involved in the cicatrix, this may be dissected out and a few sutures applied to the portion of the nerve which has been loosed from the cicatrix. Neuromata.—Neuromata are tumors growing upon or between the fas- ciculi of a nerve ; they are usually fibrous or fibroeellular growths attached to the sheath of the nerve, and are known as false neuromata. (See pages 91,100.) The painful subcutaneous tubercle, which is a small fibroma developed upon a cutaneous branch of a sensory nerve, is considered by some writers as a form of neuroma. Sarcomata and cysts may also develop upon nerves. Treatment.—The tumor should be dissected from the nerve, if possible, without injury to the nerve-fibres ; this can be done in many cases of false neuromata. If, however, the tumor cannot be removed without dividing or excising a portion of the nerve, this should be done, and the divided ends of the nerve should be united to bring about speedy restoration of function. If the amount of the nerve-trunk removed is so extensive that the ends cannot be united by sutures, even after stretching the ends of the nerve, attempts should be made to unite them by neuroplasty, or nerve-grafting, or threads of chromicized catgut should be passed through the ends of the nerve and tied,—suture a distance,—and upon this framework, even if the gap is exten- sive, the reparative material from the ends of the nerve may be deposited, and union of the divided ends ultimately effected. Plexiform neuromata, if not too extensive, or if upon parts where their presence causes great disfigurement, should be removed by dissection. OPERATIONS UPON NERVES. Nerve-Suture, or Neurorrhaphy.—The primary or secondary ap- proximation of divided nerves by the application of sutures has been de- scribed under wounds of nerves. In exposing wounded nerves for suturing the use of Esmarch's bandage is most satisfactory, as its employment enables the operator to recognize the nerve and adjacent tissues. Nerve-sutures should be of some material which can be thoroughly sterilized and is capable of absorption in the tissues.