216 INCISED WOUNDS. sutures of silk, catgut, or silkworm-gut, and a dressing of sterilized or anti- septic gauze and cotton is then applied. Accidental Incised Wounds.—In the treatment of these wounds a careful exploration of the wound is necessary to ascertain its extent and whether any important structures have been divided. Too much attention cannot be paid to the examination of this variety of incised wounds, for we have seen patients in whom such wounds of the hands and of the fore- arm had been closed without such examination, and after healing it was found that the hands were useless by reason of the fact that divided nerves or tendons had not been approximated by sutures before the wounds were closed. The fact that the wound may have been infected should be considered by the surgeon, and should lead him to use some form of irrigation before closing the wound. Treatment.—The surgeon should first separate the edges of the wound and irrigate it with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution or sterilized water, and if there is any bleeding the vessels should be found and tied. If the wound is so deep that its lowest portion cannot be well explored, it may be necessary to enlarge it by increasing the length of the original wound superficially, or by a transverse incision. When the surgeon has satisfied himself that no important structures have been divided, the wound may be closed, as will be described later. If upon exploration of the wound he finds that an important nerve or tendon has been divided, that mus- cles have been divided transversely, or that an important fascia has been severed, these structures should be brought together by sutures before the wound is closed. Suturing of the deep fascia will often prevent hernia of the muscles after the wound has healed. When the surgeon has satisfied himself that the wound is in condition to close, if the wound be a deep one, he should introduce a rubber drainage- tube or a few strands of catgut, to secure free drainage. Sutures should be introduced to approximate the edges of the wound, and it should next be covered with a number of layers of sterilized gauze or bichloride gauze and a few layers of sterilized or bichloride cotton, and the dressings held in position by a gauze bandage. If a drainage-tube has been employed, the dressing should be changed in three or four days, the drainage-tube removed, and the wound should be dressed as previously described. If the wound runs an aseptic course it usually requires no dressing for another week, at which time the dressings should be taken off and the sutures should be removed, the wound usually being found perfectly healed. It is well, however, to keep the cicatrix covered for a little longer time with a pad of gauze or cotton to protect it. In approximating deep wounds involving the muscles, the surgeon should be careful to put the parts in such a position as to take advantage of mus- cular relaxation. Superficial incised wounds involving only the skin or the skin and cellu- lar tissue, if of limited extent, may be irrigated, the edges being brought together by a few sutures, no drainage being required; the wound may then be covered by a few strips of gauze, which is next painted over with