CHONDROMA. 97 is freely movable over them, and a bursa is often developed between them and the surrounding soft parts. They vary in size, the pure osteomata, and especially the eburnated variety, seldom being large, but in some cases, when combined with cartilage, they may reach the size of a man's head. They are fixed on the bones, and are free from pain and tenderness. History.—These tumors enlarge very slowly, often remain stationary for long periods, and seldom cause any symptoms unless they grow in a closed cavity, like the antrum of Highmore, when they may cause pain from pressure and interfere with the functions of the neighboring nerves. Osteoma is liable to inflammation and necrosis, but never undergoes malig- nant degeneration. Treatment.—The only treatment for osteomata is removal by operation, but in many cases they may be left untouched. Operation may be rendered necessary by the mechanical interference of the tumor with the motions of a limb, its large size, or the deformity it occasions. It is also necessary to remove osteomata developing in the sinuses of the facial bones as soon as they distend the latter. The ordinary exostosis is easily removed with the chisel, but the base should be thoroughly gouged out, to prevent recurrence from the cartilaginous matrix often found beneath it. The ivory exostoses will generally require the use of a saw, on account of their great hardness. To remove osteomata from any of the sinuses the latter must be opened, and, if the tumor springs from the deeper wall of the frontal sinus, care will be necessary to avoid injury to the brain, as it not infrequently extends deeply into the cavity of the skull. CHONDROMA. A chondroma is a tumor composed of cartilaginous tissue. All the vari- eties of cartilage are found in neoplasms, the hyaline being the most common and the fibro-cartilage and reticular cartilage rare. Tumors of fibro-car- tilage are usually found about the ligaments or in the salivary glands. We must distinguish sharply between two classes of chondromata—those which spring from the normal cartilages or bones and those which originate elsewhere. In the latter case the tumors are seldom pure chondromata and often show malignant characteristics. In the first case, however, the tumors grow slowly, resemble epiphyseal cartilage in their structure, and are usu- ally to be found in the neighborhood of the epiphyses. (Fig. 56.) In some curious cases they appear to be left anchored upon the shaft at the point where they first appeared, the epiphysis growing beyond them, so that the tumor which first appeared near the end of the bone is found later near the middle of the shaft. It has been shown that some small fragments of car- tilage may be left behind in the ends of the long bones as the epiphyses ad- vance, and they may remain without ossification, ready to form tumors later in life. This fact explains the frequent association of rickets with multiple chondromata, for irregular ossification is often observed in that disease. Chondroma most frequently begins in youth, when the bones are actively growing. Occurrence.—About two-thirds of the chondromata originate from some part of the skeleton, and over one-half of these in the hand (Fig. 57) 7