639 RESECTION OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. the region of the wound, and the patient allowed to carry the arm in a sling, and encouraged to prouate and supinate gently, as well as flex and extend, the forearm. In this excision it is desirable to have a fair range of motion, and with this end in view it is a mistake to retain fixation dressings for a Fig. 561. Extension of the arm after excision of the elbow. long period ; the sooner they are dispensed with and the patient begins to use the arm the better will be the functional result. The result of an excision of the elbow-joint for an unreduced posterior dislocation with fracture of the inner condyle of the humerus, in which the arm was firmly fixed at a right angle and was both useless and painful, is shown in Figs. 561, 562. In this case the patient had both fair extension and flexion of the arm, and the mo- tions of pronation and supination were perfect. Resection of the Radius or Ulna.—Besection of the radius or ulna, either entirely or partially, may be re- quired for disease or injury, or to cor- rect deformity resulting from arrest of growth or from a loss of a portion of one or other of the bones. Operation.—An incision should be made upon the back of the forearm over the bone to be resected ; the bone being exposed, the periosteum is sep- arated with an elevator, and the bone divided with a saw or bone forceps; each fragment is then lifted and sep- arated from its muscular attachments up to the point where it is desired to remove it. (Fig. 563.) If the articular surface of the bone is to be re- moved, the disarticulation should be carefully made with a strong scalpel or a probe-pointed knife, and in exposing the anterior surface of the bone great care should be taken to avoid injury of the vessels and nerves lying upon its palmar surface. Excision of the Wrist-Joint.—Excision of this joint may be re- quired for injury, but is usually employed for tuberculous arthritis of the wrist-joint, which principally involves the carpal bones. The wrist-joint Fig. 562. Flexion of the arm after excision of the elbow.