1168 LACERATION OF THE PERINEUM AND CERVIX. Fig. 879. count of the great vascularity of the parts, but their principal danger is the injury to the neighboring organs or subsequent infection. Infection in this region may produce extensive suppuration within the pelvis or result in peritonitis. Self-inflicted injuries to the parts are occasionally seen in de- mented persons. The treatment of these injuries consists in the arrest of hemorrhage by ligature or by packing the vagina, after thorough cleansing and removal of torn and gangrenous tissues. Extensive wounds may be sutured, but this will seldom be necessary. Thorough asepsis and drainage must be provided, and a beginning cellulitis or an infected hsematoma treated by early incision. Foreign bodies are found in the genitals, sometimes introduced accidentally, but more frequently with intention. If allowed to remain long in place, as is sometimes the case with neglected pessaries, they may become incrusted with lime salts and produce deep ulcers. When an obstinate vaginitis exists in children a careful search should always be made for a foreign body. Laceration of the Perineum and Cervix.—As the result of partu- rition, tears are often found in the vagina and perineum, either lateral or directly backward. The perineal laceration may be slight, involving only the vaginal mucous membrane and the commissure, it may divide all the tissues down to the sphincter ani, or it may be complete and extend into the rectum. The principal factor in these injuries is not the laceration of the skin and mucous membrane, but the damage to the pelvic fascia which enters into the structure of the perineum. The loss of the support be- low thus produced leads to eversion of the vaginal mucous membrane, espe- cially on the posterior wall. This ever- sion is aided by the falling forward of the lower part of the rectum, and the pouching of the latter produces an ob- struction to defecation and is constantly increased by the straining during that act. As the posterior vaginal wall descends it drags the cervix of the uterus forward and downward, and that organ takes the first step towards retroversion and pro- lapse. The bladder also prolapses quite frequently. The prolapsed vaginal wall is called a rectocele or a cystocele (Fig. 879), according to the organ affected. In some cases the extent of the laceration is not evident until the fingers are passed into the vagina and pressure made towards the rectum, when it will be dis- covered that the entire fascial support of the perineum has been torn away, leaving it lax and non-resistant, although the vulvo-vaginal opening may not appear much larger than nor- mal. The sphincter ani has been divided by these subcutaneous lacerations. Cystocele and rectocele. (Mundii.)