INSTRUMENTS FOR AMPUTATION. 262 rectomy and the improved treatment of the early stages of these diseases, there are still cases in which, from the extent of the bone involved and the implication of the soft tissues, amputation is the safer procedure. Injuries of Blood-Vessels.—Amputation is sometimes required for injuries of the larger arteries and veins, as well as for aneurisms which have become dif- fused. Malignant Growths.—These growths, when involving the bones of the extremities, or when extensive and situated in the soft parts and closely attached to important blood-vessels and nerves, so that their re- moval is dangerous or impossible, often demand amputation. Deformi- ties.—Amputation may be required for the relief of deformities, either natural or acquired ; but since the introduction of osteotomy many deformi- ties of the bones which were formerly subjected to amputation can be satis- factorily corrected by this procedure. Occasionally, after injuries and frac- tures, a limb will present so much deformity that the patient will be in much better condition if the part be removed by amputation. Instruments required for Amputation.—The instruments re- quired for amputation are a tourniquet or other means of controlling the circulation during the operation, knives of various shapes and sizes, a saw, bone forceps, artery or haemostatic forceps, re- tractors, scissors, ligatures, sutures, and suture needles. Tourniquets.—The control of the bleeding during amputation is a very important part of the procedure. This may be accomplished by the use of the ordinary tourniquet, known as Petit's tourniquet (Fig. 180), which consists of two metal plates, the distance between which is regulated by a screw, with a strong linen or silk strap provided with a buckle. In ap- plying this, a few turns of a bandage are passed around the limb, and a firm pad or com- press is secured immediately over the main artery ; upon this pad is placed the lower plate of the tourniquet, so that the artery is held between this plate and the bone ; the strap is then buckled tightly enough to keep the instrument in place. The compress is next forced down upon the artery by turning the screw and separating the plates, until the circu- lation is completely arrested through the vessel. Other forms of tour- niquets, such as the horseshoe tourniquet, or Skey's abdominal tourniquet, are sometimes employed. Esmarch's Haemostatic Apparatus.—The haemostatic apparatus now generally employed is known as Esmarch's bandage, and consists of a rubber bandage and an elastic tube or strap. The bandage is applied to the parts from the lowest extremity of the limb to a point some dis- tance above the seat of the proposed amputation. (Fig. 181.) The elastic tube or strap is then firmly wound about the limb at the upper end of the bandage, and the rubber bandage is removed. This renders the limb bloodless, preventing the loss of blood during the operation, and adds Fig. 180. Petit's tourniquet.