FIBROMA. 89 grow slowly. The softer variety is sometimes very vascular and sometimes deficient in blood-supply, sloughing readily in the latter case. The lym- phatic spaces in the soft tumors are sometimes so much distended by serum as to resemble oedematous tissue, or even to form true cysts. Occurrence.—As fibrous tissue is found throughout the body, fibro- mata occur in almost any situation. The hard fibromata may develop in soft glandular organs, and soft fibromata may occur in connection with ten- dons, although dense, hard fibromata often originate from the ligamentous structures iu the fingers or about the joints, and from the fibrous sheaths of the nerves. Fibroma of the tendons is rare. The soft variety is usually found in the subcutaneous connec- tive tissue, and also grows from the corhim of the skin. Fibromata may de- velop in the periosteum, and growths of this char- acter are most frequently found attached to the jaws, the palate, or the base of the skull. In the latter sit- uation they form the naso- pharyngeal polypi. (See chapter on the Nose.) A peculiar form of fibrous tu- mor known as a desmoid grows in the muscular and tendinous parts of the abdominal wall. These tumors are not very well encapsulated, and resemble sarcoma, having a tendency to return after removal. Clinical Appearances.—A fibroma of the hard variety is a smooth or nodular painless tumor, freely movable under the skin or in the affected organ, although sometimes adherent at its point of origin, and varying in size from a pea to a horse-chestnut. The soft fibroma is jelly-like or semi- fluctuating, often pedunculated, covered by normal skin or mucous mem- brane, painless, and may attain a much larger size. History.—These tumors may cause ulceration of the skin by pressure. If pedunculated they may slough if the pedicle is twisted, and if infected they become inflamed. They are very liable to cystic degeneration. Calci- fication and ossification also occur. They do not return if thoroughly re- moved, and with extremely rare exceptions they do not form metastatic tumors. Varieties.—-A keloid is a fibrous tumor of the skin which develops from a scar. (Fig. 49.) Keloids of spontaneous growth do not exist, for those of unknown origin probably grow from a minute scar, such as that left by an acne pustule. The distinction between keloids and hi/pert rophied scars is a clinical one, the main difference between them being that a hypertrophied Fig. 48. /.W.A. Hard fibroma of the thumb, X 300. (Agnew.)