152 SCURVY. SCURYY. Scurvy is an acquired constitutional affection caused by improper diet and imperfect hygienic surroundings, in which there are marked disturb- ances of nutrition and hemorrhages into various tissues of the body. It is now generally conceded that a lack of vegetable food with a prolonged diet of salted meats is the most common factor in its development, but the use of impure water and bad hygienic conditions may also play a part in its production. The change in the physical and chemical composition of the blood gives rise to hemorrhagic extravasations in the skin, mucous membrane, con- nective tissue, muscles, and viscera. The skin and mucous membranes may be the seat of bleeding or of extensive ulceration. Symptoms.—The early symptoms of this affection consist in extreme lassitude or debility, with shortness of breath and rapidity of the heart's action upon slight exertion. The skin becomes harsh and dry, the patient complains of muscular pains, the gums are swollen and oedematous and bleed freely, the mucous membrane of the mouth is affected in a similar manner, and the breath has a foul odor; the temperature is not usually elevated. Petechias and extravasations of blood occur in the skin, and ex- travasations of blood may also take place into the connective tissue, the muscles, or the viscera, or beneath the periosteum ; or bleeding may occur from the mucous or serous membranes. The prognosis in cases of scurvy is usually favorable if the diet and sur- roundings of the patient can be changed. Treatment.—The prophylactic treatment consists in the use of fresh meats, and such articles of diet as eggs, milk, potatoes, carrots, onions, cab- bages, fruits, lemons, and lime-juice, with improvement of the hygienic con- ditions. When the affection is well developed, the treatment consists in the use of an antiscorbutic diet, such as the above-mentioned, and the adminis- tration of nitrate of potassium and the vegetable acids, and, in debilitated cases, the employment of tonics, such as quinine, strychnine, and iron. If ulcers are present, they should be cleansed, and antiseptic and astrin- gent mouth-washes should be employed to improve the condition of the gums and the mouth.