TREATMENT OF HIP-DISEASE. 620 of months or years, and years after the case has apparently recovered a recurrence of the disease may take place. Treatment.—The treatment is both local and constitutional, and the earlier it is instituted the better is the prospect of recovery with the least impairment of function in the joint. The local treatment consists in securing as nearly as possible absolute rest of the affected joint, at the same time cor- recting any deformity which exists, and using such appliances as will pre- vent subsequent deformity. The constitutional treatment of the case consists in the employment of all the means to improve the patient's general condition and nutrition which would be indicated in an enfeebled and tubercular state, such as fresh air, sea air, if possible, and nutritious diet, and at the same time tonics, as cod-liver oil and iodide of iron, may be used with good results. The two methods of treatment which are most practised at the present time are prolonged recumbency with extension, and the use of fixation or traction splints, which allow the patient to walk about during the course of treatment. Each of these methods has its advantages, and the surgeon often has to be governed in his decision as to which method he will employ in any individual case by the duration of the disease aud the age and social condition of the patient. Among the poorer classes the cost of fixation and traction splints and the lack of judicious care in their management prevents satisfactory results. Complete rest in bed in this class of patients is also very difficult to secure. In many cases a combination of the two methods is followed by the best results. In the early stage of the disease recumbency and extension may be employed, and after a time the patient be allowed to go about with some form of fixation or traction splint. Prolonged Recumbency and Extension.—This method is especially applicable in the early stages of the disease and in young children, in whom a walking splint cannot be used with satisfaction. It is remarkable how well children stand confinement to bed for a long time if they are properly fed and have good hygienic surroundings. In this method of treatment an extension apparatus made of adhesive plaster or swans' -down plaster— either of which is preferable to rubber plaster, which is apt to irritate the skin—is applied to the leg and the lower part of the thigh, secured by transverse strips of plaster, and held in place by a gauze or muslin band- age. The patient is next placed upon a firm mattress, and a weight of from four to ten pounds is attached to the block at the bottom of the extension apparatus. Lateral support may be given to the limb by means of a long padded splint extending from the axilla to the sole of the foot, or by sand- bags. Care should be taken to make extension in the line of deformity— that is, in the line of the flexed or abducted or adducted thigh—and as the deformity is corrected the position of the limb can be gradually changed to the normal one. The amount of weight necessary to produce extension varies in individual cases, and should be sufficient to overcome muscular spasm. If the starting-pain at night is not relieved, the weight shoidd be increased; the tendency is to use too little weight; we often employ from six to twelve pounds. This treatment may be kept up for many months; if abscess does not occur no operative treatment is required. When the dis-