852 BENIGN TUMORS OF THE LARYNX, tive dyspnoea are very urgent, tracheotomy should be performed to relieve the immediate danger, and dilatation of the stricture should be practised later. When the dyspnoea arises from tracheal obstruction, if it is possible the trachea should be opened below the seat of obstruction; this may be difficult if the cause of the obstruction is a large tumor occupying the anterior portion of the neck, as little space may be left between the growth and the sternum. Tracheal obstruction due to goitre may require division of the tumor in the median line down to the trachea for its relief. When the obstruction is due to deflection or kinking of the trachea, the operation may be a most difficult one, as the trachea at the point where it is to be opened may be much displaced and its anatomical relations much disturbed. TUMORS OF THE LARYNX. Laryngeal tumors may be either benign or malignant: the great majority of such tumors fortunately belong to the former class. Benign Tumors of the Larynx.—The most common varieties of tumors having their origin in the larynx are papillomata and fibromata, but cystic tumors, adenomata and angiomata, are occasionally observed in this location. Papillomata are the tumors most commonly observed, and are said to constitute fully two-thirds of all laryngeal tumors. They are quite frequently observed in children, but may also occur in adults who use the voice constantly, such as singers and public speakers, and are often multi- ple ; they vary in size from that of a grain of wheat to that of a mass which fills the cavity of the larynx; they also have a marked tendency to recur after removal. Papillary tumors generally have their origin from the vocal cords. The tendency of benign tumors of the larynx in adults to be transformed into malignant growths is very marked ; papil- loma may be transformed into epithelioma, fibroma into fibrosarcoma, and adenoma into carcinoma. Symptoms.—Benign tumors of the larynx, as a rule, produce few symptoms other than hoarseness and partial loss of voice until they attain sufficient size to obstruct respiration or cause oedema of the adjacent parts. In children the expectoration of mucus tinged with blood, and hoarseness, even if dyspnoea is not present, should direct attention to the possible presence of laryngeal papilloma ; pain is not usually present. The definite diagnosis of the condition can be made only by the laryngoscope, the use of which is often very difficult in young children. Many cases of papilloma in young children are recognized only when the dyspnoea becomes so marked that tracheotomy is required to prevent suffocation. Papilloma in adults well advanced in years may be easily confounded with epithelioma. Treatment.—Various methods of treatment may be employed in the removal of benign growths of the larynx. The intralaryngeal method, by which the growth is exposed by the laryngoscope and is then removed by a snare or laryngeal forceps, is one of the best methods of treatment, but requires special skill in the use of these instruments, and is often impossible in the case of children, unless they have had considerable training to ac- custom them to their use. If dyspnoea is marked, attempts to remove the growth by the intralaryngeal operation should not be made, but the trachea