45S SUPRACONDYLOID FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. Fig. 367. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the humerus. Causes.—Supracondyloid fractures result from force applied directly to the elbow or transmitted through the bones of the forearm. Symptoms.—The most marked symptoms of this injury are shortening of the arm, crepitus, and deformity. Upon careful examination of the region of the elbow a projection will usually be discovered in front of the elbow, which is caused by the lower end of the upper fragment. A pos- terior prominence may also be felt, which is due to the upper end of the lower fragment. The de- formity in this fracture so closely resembles a back- ward dislocation of the bones of the forearm at the elbow that a careful examination has to be made before the variety of injury can be deter- mined. In cases of supracondyloid fracture there is shortening of the arm; the condyles of the hu- merus and the olecranon process are in the same line ; the end of the upper fragment is above the bend of the elbow ; the forearm is movable, and there will be crepitus ; reduction is easily effected by extension and counter-extension, but the de- formity reappears with the withdrawal of this force. In dislocation there is no shortening of the arm ; the relation between the olecranon process and the condyles is changed, the olecranon being behind the condyles ; there is no crepitus, and the broad end of the humerus may be felt below the bend of the elbow. There is also more or less rigidity at the elbow, and the deformity when once reduced does not tend to recur. Treatment.—The treatment of this fracture consists, first, in making extension and counter-extension, and in using manipulation to bring the lower end of the bone into position. The forearm is next placed at an ob- tuse angle, or at an angle of less than _ ■ ^ i •« +f a ■ FlG- 368- ninety degrees, with the arm, and is covered by a primary roller from the fingers to the axilla. A well padded anterior angular splint (Fig. 368) is next placed upon the anterior surface of the arm and forearm (Fig. 369), and is secured in position by ascend- ing turns of a roller bandage. (Fig. 370.) For additional fixation a posterior rectangular gutter of binders' board or leather may be fitted to the posterior surface of the arm. The dressing should be removed at the end of twenty-four hours, as more or less swelling is apt to occur in the region of the elbow-joint, and the same dress- ing may be reapplied, and after this period may be changed at intervals of two or three days until four or five weeks have expired, at the end of which time the dressings may be permanently removed. After three weeks passive motion should be carefully made, the arm being fixed at the seat of fracture, while the forearm is flexed, extended, pronated, and supinated. Anterior angular splint.