754 MACROGLOSSIA. Treatment.—This condition may be relieved by opening the mouth, placing a retractor or the flat end of a director under the free portion of the tongue, and lifting the organ towards the roof of the mouth, thus rendering the frenum tense. The frenuni should then be divided for a short distance with scissors, care being taken to cut away from the tongue so as to avoid the ranine vessels. After the frenum has been incised it can easily be torn back for a short distance with the finger. In cases of cicatricial adhesion of the tongue to the floor of the mouth, a plastic operation is re- quired to correct the deformity and secure mobility of the organ. Elongation of the Frenum.—Cases are occasionally observed in which, from elongation or relaxation of the frenum linguae, the tongue falls backward when the patient assumes the recumbent posture, and oc- cludes the upper orifice of the larynx, constituting the affection known as tongue swallowing. Death has resulted from this condition. It has been observed after a too free division of the frenum, and after operations upon the floor of the mouth, or excision of the central portion of the lower jaw, which interferes with the attachment of the muscles of the tongue. Treat- ment.—This condition should be remedied by excising a portion of the frenum aud suturing the edges together, or, if the tongue tends to fall back after operation upon the mouth or the jaw, its tip should be transfixed with a ligature, and it should be drawn forward and secured until adhesions form. Macroglossia.—Hypertrophy of the tongue, or macroglossia, is a con- dition which is characterized by a great increase in size of the tongue, the organ being so much enlarged that it cannot be contained within the oral cavity and a considerable portion Fig. 672. protrudes from the mouth. The affection is usually congenital, but does not ordinarily attract atten- tion until the end of the first or the second year ; we have, however, seen a marked case of this affec- tion in an infant of five months. The disease, which is closely allied to elephantiasis, may be classified as a lymphangioma cavernosum, and presents marked increase and dilatation of the lymphatic vessels, with increase of the blood- vessels and hyperplasia of the connective tissue. The anterior portion of the tongue is usually affected, the base of the organ remaining normal in size. In marked cases a large mass of the tongue is prolapsed, and cannot be retracted within the mouth ; the shape of the dental arch may be changed by the pressure and weight of the organ, and the latter may be furrowed Macroglossia.