383 LIGATION OF THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. vessel, and when the scalenus anticns muscle has been exposed it is divided upon a director ; care should be taken to avoid injury of the phrenic nerve, which lies upon the anterior aspect of the muscle. The point of election for the ligation of the subclavian artery is the third portion. Operation.—The shoulders should be elevated by a pillow, the head turned towards the opposite side, and the shoulder corresponding to the side upon which the artery is to be ligated drawn downward. The skin should next be drawn downward over the clavicle, and an incision three or four inches in length, beginning an inch external to the sterno clavicular articulation, made over the clavicle, and the tissues divided down to the bone. (Fig. 283, /.) When this incision has been made the integument is relaxed, and its elasticity will draw the incision about half an inch above the clavicle. The superficial structures having been divided, the external jugular vein must be drawn to one side, or, if this is impossible, it should be divided between ligatures. The deep fascia is next divided upon a director. The posterior belly of the omo hyoid muscle is found and drawn upward and outward. The outer border of the scalenus anticus is next felt for and followed downward to the tubercle of the first rib. The artery lies against this, between it and the lowest bundle of the brachial plexus. The subclavian vein lies in front of this muscle, but upon a lower plane. The artery is carefully denuded with a director, to avoid injury of the subcla- vian vein or the pleura, and the needle should be passed from below, care being taken not to include the lowest bundle of the brachial plexus in the ligature. The surgeon should also examine carefully to see that the phrenic nerve, which occasionally passes into the chest over the third portion of the subclavian artery, is not included in the ligature. Collateral Circulation.—The subclavian artery gives off the vertebral, the internal mammary, and the thyroid axis to the inner side of the point where the scalenus muscle crosses it. When the artery is ligated in its second or third portion, the circulation of the upper extremity is maintained by the blood passing through two branches of the thyroid axis, the suprascapular and transversalis colli arteries, which run across the neck in the direc- tion of the shoulder; branches from these arteries inosculate with vessels from the axillary artery, the subscapu- lar and the dorsalis scapulae, while the main trunk of the subscapular joins the descending branches from the posterior scapular, which is also derived from the thyroid axis. (Fig. 287.) Ligation of the Vertebral Artery.—The vertebral artery arises from the subclavian artery and enters the vertebral foramen of the sixth cervical vertebra, passes through similar openings in the vertebrae above, and upon reaching the upper surface of the atlas turns backward around its articular process and enters the cranium through the occipital foramen. Fig. 287. Collateral circulation after ligation of the sub- clavian artery. (Agnew.)