214 CONTUSIONS. depends upon the amount of blood effused and the looseness of the tissues. Discoloration is another symptom which appears soon after the accident if the contusion is superficial, but may not appear for some days if the deep tissues are involved. In severe contusions shock is often a prominent symp- tom. If important vessels have been ruptured, the blood may escape in such quantities that the vitality of the tissues is impaired by tension, and gan- grene may result, or the same result may follow from contusion and sec- ondary occlusion of the blood-vessels. We have seen a severe contusion of the elbow involving the brachial vessels followed in a few days by gangrene, necessitating amputation of the arm. In severe contusions fever is usually present, its degree depending upon the amount of the extravasation and laceration of the tissues. Treatment.—The skin covering a contused surface should be carefully examined, to see if any small wound or fissure exists through which the subjacent tissues may become infected. If such is found, it as well as the skin should be carefully washed with soap and water and irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, and the small wounds should be covered with strips of gauze and iodoform collodion. The application which we have found to give the most comfort to the patient and to hasten the absorption of the effused blood is the following : Ammonii chloridi, 5ii; tr. opii, f'sss ; aleoholis, f3ss; aquse, fsvi. Lint is saturated with this lotion and laid on the contused part, which is covered with waxed paper or oiled silk ; a layer of cotton and a bandage being next applied over the dressing with moderate firmness. Rest is an important part of the treatment not only of contused wounds but of all varieties of wounds. It may be secured by putting the patient to bed, by the use of splints and bandages, or of fixed dressings, such as the plaster of Paris or silicate of sodium dressing, or by the use of strapping. In contusions of the back we have found that the most satis- factory treatment consists in strapping the parts firmly with strips of rubber or adhesive plaster, two and a half inches in width, applied so as to extend some distance in all directions beyond the contused tissues. In the later stages of contusions with effusion of blood the absorption of the latter may be hastened by massage. Strangulation of Parts.—When a part has its circulation interfered with by the application of a constricting band, it rapidly becomes swollen and discolored, and soon passes into a condition of gangrene. Strangulation of parts often occurs from the application of a too tight bandage, or from the presence of a tight ring upon a part which has been injured and becomes swollen, and unless the constriction be promptly relieved the parts soon become gangrenous. Treatment.—In the treatment of a part which has been strangulated by a tight band the first indication is to remove the constricting band ; this can usually be done without difficulty, but in the case of metal rings their removal is often more troublesome. In removing rings from the fingers the part in advance of the ring should be firmly wrapped with a piece of tape, the end of which is carried under the ring, and as it is unwound the ring may be slipped off; if, however, the ring cannot be removed in this way, it may be necessary to divide it with a file or forceps. The swollen and