1048 CHANCROID. CHANCROID, OR SIMPLE VENEREAL ULCER. Chancroid, or soft chancre, as it is sometimes called, is an ulcer commonly found on the genitalia, contagious in nature, and generally of venereal origin. Unlike chancre, the primary lesion of syphilis, with which up to comparatively recent times it was confused, it is a local affection, never being followed by constitutional symptoms. Its exact cause has not yet been fully demonstrated. It is considered by some authors to be a specific lesion caused by a special bacterium, and a streptobacillus has been described by Ducrey and Unna as occurring in the pus and tissues of the ulcer, which they believe to be the cause of the affection. Other investigators regard it as non-specific, and assert that it can arise as the result of irritation, un- cleanliness, and pus-infection acting on simple lesions, causing them to take on the peculiar features of chancroid. (Bumstead, Finger, Taylor.) It has been successfully inoculated in the lower animals. Chancroid is most frequently observed among the lower classes, and is, therefore, more frequently encountered in hospital than in private practice, in which latter chancre is the more common lesion. The most common seat of the ulcer is at the side of the frenum and in the sulcus behind the glans; it is also found on the inner and outer layers of the prepuce, on the glans, around the meatus, and on the penis above the prepuce, and by auto-in- oculation on the scrotum and thighs, and is sometimes encountered in the urethra. In women it affects the labia, fourchette, clitoris, vestibule, rarely the vagina itself, and the os uteri. The discharge running down over the perineum inoculates that region and the anus, the latter situation in the male being generally inoculated in the practice of sodomy. Chancroid has no period of incubation. As soon as the germs penetrate the epithelial layer, or immediately in those cases in which infection takes place through an existing abrasion, the inflammatory process begins, and by the second or third day the part becomes the seat of a pustule surrounded by an inflam- matory area. The pustule soon breaks down, producing the typical chan- croidal ulcer. The lesion is often unnoticed until the ulcerative stage is reached. The appearance of the chancroidal ulcer is characteristic. It is round, oval, or of irregular shape, with a punched-out appearance, due to the sharply cut or undermined edges, in marked contrast to the sloping edges and floor of a chancre. The floor is covered with a grayish-yellow deposit of membrane, beneath which is the uneven surface of the ulcer. (Plate IV., Fig. 4.) There is a thin, brownish, unhealthy pus secreted, which is freely auto-inoculable—that is, capable of producing exactly identical lesions on the same individual wherever inoculated. There are multiple ulcers as a result of this property in a majority of cases. On compressing the base of the sore between the fingers there is an absence of the characteristic circum- scribed induration of the chancre, but there may be a diffuse inflammatory oedema. The ulceration is progressive, especially on the mucous mem- branes, and may involve considerable destruction of tissue. There is usu- ally some pain felt in cases of chancroid, and it may be very severe in rap- idly advancing and phagedenic cases, which is in contrast to the painless