THE PRACTICE OF SURGERY. CHAPTER I. SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY. A micro-organism, or microbe, is a minute plant or animal—too small, as a rule, to be visible to the unassisted eye. The word germ may be used to designate any micro-organism which is the cause of disease, but it has so many other meanings and has been so loosely employed even in this sense that it cannot be used for accurate scientific description. Bacteria are minute plants of the order of fungi, many of which are able to produce fermenta- tion, decomposition, or disease. Although the word bacterium by deriva- tion has the same meaning as bacillus, and indicates a rod-shaped fungus, it has been so loosely employed that it may very well be applied to the entire family, retaining the term bacillus in the narrower sense. Very few of the unicellular animal micro-organisms, usually called pro- tozoa, have been proved to cause disease, and the only important ones thus far discovered are the malarial germs of Laveran, the dysenteric amoeba of Koch and Kartulis, which is also said to cause abscesses of the liver, and, finally, the supposed "parasites'' (sporozoa, psorospermiee, or coccidia) of malignant tumors, the real nature of which is still uncertain. The vegetable micro-organisms which are surgically important are the schizomycetes or bacteria, the saccharomycetes or yeast plants, and the acti- nomyces or ray-fungus. The last-named appears to be a mould-fungus rather than a bacterium, although its exact relations are not yet settled, and, as it is the only one of its kind, we refer for its description to the section on the disea.se caused by it, called actinomycosis. The saccharomycetes are of little surgical interest. Description of Bacteria.—The schizomycetes, however, include all the bacteria of putrefaction and disease, the former being called saprophytic and the latter pathogenic bacteria. They are minute fungi, each consisting of a single cell, enclosed in a cell-membrane of cellulose, that can be demon- strated by iodine, which causes the protoplasm to retract from the cell-wall. There is no nucleus. Some of the bacteria are colorless, others pigmented —yellow, blue, or red. The cells vary in shape and size in the different species, as well as in their mode of growth, and are named in accordance ■with these peculiarities. The round or oval cells are called cocci; the rod- shaped organisms, bacilli. The cocci are called micrococci or macrococci, l