1207 TUMORS OF THE OVARY. Tumors of the Ovary.—Pathology.—Tumors of the ovary are most frequently cystic, and their origin can best be understood by reference to the accompanying diagram of Doran. (Fig. 917.) They may arise from the oophoron, as the ac- tive part of the ovary is Fig. 917. termed, or from the paro- ophoron, as the hilum is called. With the ovarian tumors are to be consid- ered tumors arising from the parovarium, and in the broad ligament inde- pendent of that organ. The practically important tumors of the ovary are as follows: (1) Follicu- lar Cysts.—The simplest form of ovarian cyst is the dilated Graafian folli- cle. These tumors are unilocular, and contain a single cavity, with very thin walls, filled with se- rous fluid. They are of small size, rarely reaching the size of an English walnut, and of no clinical significance. When associated with hydrosalpinx the distended tube may become agglutinated to the ovary, and the cyst in the latter may connect with the cavity of the distended tube, a condition known as a tubo-ovarian cyst. (2) Multilocular Cysts.—The larger cysts of the oophoron do not develop from these small cysts, but originate independently from the germi- nal epithelium, forming multilocular cysts, which may attain an immense size, furnishing the largest of Diagram showing the origin of tumors of the ovary and broad ligament: 1, parenchyma of ovary ; la, glandular multilocular cyst; 2, hilum ; 3, papillomatous cyst; h, cyst of broad ligament; 5, similar cyst above and not connected with Fallopian tube; 6, similar cyst close to 7, ovarian fimbria of tube; 8, hydatid of Morgagni; 9, cyst from horizontal tube of 10, parovarium; 11, cyst from vertical tube of same ; 12, duct of Gartner, traversing uterine wall at IS. (Doran.) Fig. 918. these tumors. (Fig. 918.) The wall of these cysts is white, but where it is very thin it allows the dark-green or brown color of the contents to shine through. These cysts grow first upon one side, but assume the median position as they rise out of the true pelvis, and may extend up to the ensi- form cartilage and contain many quarts of fluid. They are found at any period of life. (3) Cysts of the Paroophoron.—Cysts with papillomatous growths on the interior surface of their wall have a single cavity and originate from the remains of the parovarium in the hilum of the ovary. (Fig. 919.) The cysts grow in the substauce of the broad ligament, Multilocular cyst. (Coe.)