109 VARIETIES OF SARCOMA. the surrounding tissues has begun. For their treatment we refer to the sections on tumors of the brain and of the eye. Alveolar Sarcoma.—Alveolar sarcoma is a form in which the inter- cellular substance is increased in some of its strands and so arranged as to form alveoli containing groups of cells and resembling carcinoma. The cells are round or spindle-shaped, most frequently the former. An inter- cellular substance can generally be demonstrated, although it may be very scanty, and serves to distinguish these neoplasms from the epithelial tumors. It seems probable that the round-cell alveolar sarcomata are of endothelial origin, the walls of the vessels or lymph-spaces forming the alveoli and the cells originating from their endothelial lining. Melanotic Sarcoma.—Deposits of pigment are found in round-cell and spindle-cell sarcoma, and occur FlG- 69 ■ both in the cells and stroma. The Fig. 70. % (w^o o 0 | ••: ■ ■ ■ ijsV- ° o 0 * ''VA/^'v ' <S ' 4<t 0 0 mm 0 c Giant-cell sarcoma, X 300. (F. C. Wood, M.D.) Myxochondrosarcoma ot parotid. (F. C. Wood, M.D.) presence of pigment generally indicates a more malignant type of tumor, although over ten per cent, of the cases have remained well after operation, so that the prognosis is not hopeless. Melanotic tumors do not otherwise differ from the other sarcomata. They occur at all ages, and in both sexes, but more frequently in men. They develop where pigment occurs normally, in the choroid coat of the eye, and in the skin, frequently originating from a congenital mole. The lymphatic glands are affected in at least one-fifth of the cases, and sometimes the primary tumor develops in a lymph-node. Without operation the disease runs its course in less than eighteen months, but occasionally the tumors appear to have a very slow growth. Secondary deposits in the deeper organs are the rule, and in ad- vanced cases the urine may be discolored by elimination of the pigment by the kidneys, showing that the coloring-matter finds its way into the circulation, probably by means of the cells, which enter it and disintegrate in the blood.