1137 EPITHELIOMA OF THE PENIS. Epithelioma of the penis. Epithelioma.—Cancer of the penis is almost invariably epithelioma, although other varieties are seen in rare instances. It occurs in all parts of the organ, but is most frequent on the glans and inner side of the prepuce. Some authorities claim that phimosis is a frequent predisposing factor, but this is denied by others. It fre- quently originates in a wart, and if Fig. 859. a wart appears indurated at its base, the induration tending to spread to the surrounding tissues, it should be looked upon with suspicion. Epi- thelioma also develops upon chronic ulcers, such as venereal or simple herpetic ulcerations or the tertiary lesions of syphilis, as well as at the borders of old fistula?. Malignant disease is most frequently seen after the fiftieth year, and is very rare before thirty, although it has been observed at eighteen years of age. Symptoms.—The tumor when first seen is usually of considerable size, and may be of the papillomatous or of the ulcerative form. In the first case there is a cauliflower growth, with deep grooves between the papillomatous projections, from which exudes a foul discharge. (Fig. 859.) In the ulcerating form an indurated ulcer is seen, which frequently perforates the urethra, and may entirely destroy the glans. In the later stages, when the inguinal glands are involved, they too may ulcerate, and severe hemorrhage may take place from the femoral vessels. This glandular ulceration occurs early in the disease, and is undoubtedly the result of pyogenic infection taking place from the fold tumor on the penis in addition to the malignant contagion. The pressure of the enlarged glands may obstruct the return of blood and lymph and cause oedema of the lower extremities. In the early stages the patient is merely annoyed by the presence of the tumor and the foul dis- charge, but suffers comparatively little, for the pain is generally caused by secondary involvement of the glands in the groin or in the pelvis. Meta- static deposits are rare in this disease, but they have been observed in various organs, and we have seen extensive secondary growths in the lungs. The diagnosis in the initial stages is difficult, but the malignant nature of the disease should be suspected whenever an ulcer shows a tendency to bleed, when- granulations appear which are rather brittle, and when the induration at the base of the ulcer tends to spread into the surrounding parts. The diagnosis should be made before the inguinal glands are enlarged, for a permanent cure will seldom be possible if operation is delayed until the lymphatics are diseased, and it is criminal to wait for enlarged glands to confirm the diagnosis. A microscopic examination of a small fragment of the suspected tissues should be made in all doubtful cases. Treatment.—The only hope for cure lies in very early and radical operation. The entire organ should be sacrificed, at least up to the pubes, 72