502 AMPUTATION OR EXCISION IN COMPOUND FRACTURES. Dressing of Compound Fractures.—The skin surrounding the wound which communicates with the fracture should be first rubbed over with spirit of turpentine and then thoroughly washed with Castile soap and water, the surrounding skin and the wound being irrigated with an antisep- tic solution, 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, or with sterilized water or normal salt solution. Any foreign bodies which are in the wound should be re- moved with forceps or washed out; tissue which has foreign matter, such as grease, saud, or dirt, ground into it, should be gently cleaned with a gauze pad or curette; loose fragments of bone should be removed, fragments having periosteal attachments being allowed to remain. The question of the primary fixation of the fragments should always be considered in the case of compound fractures. We are inclined to think that one reason for the satisfactory results following compound fractures at the present day is the more general use of primary fixation of the fragments. This may be accomplished by drilling the fragments and suturing them together by heavy silver or kangaroo tendon sutures, or by silver splints and screws, or by ferrules of bone, as suggested and practised by Senn. After fixation of the fragments, drainage should be introduced and the external wound closed with sutures, unless there has been much laceration of the tissues, in which case it is better to introduce no sutures. If there is any question of the escape of discharges, sutures should not be used, the wound being treated as an open one. The wound and surrounding parts should next be covered with a copious antiseptic or sterilized gauze dressing, additional fixation of the parts being made by the application of splints appropriate for the special fracture, or by the use of a plaster of Paris dressing, which may be fenestrated. In compound fractures of the bones of the extremities, after dressing the wound we usually apply moulded splints of binders' board for a few days, which can easily be removed to dress it if necessary, and if it is evident that the wound is running an aseptic course we discard these and apply a plaster of Paris dressing. If in a case of compound fracture the wound has been infected before it comes under the care of the surgeon, and if in spite of his efforts suppuration occurs, frequent dressing of the fracture may be necessary, in which case some form of movable splints will be found very satisfactory. The time required for firm union in compound fracture is considerably longer than in simple fracture, from two to three months often being required. Amputation or Excision in Compound Fractures.—Modern methods of wound treatment have made it possible to save many compound fractures which would otherwise be subjected to amputation or excision. The surgeon can in many cases now give the patient the benefit of the doubt without subjecting him to additional risks. In doubtful cases the wound should be carefully sterilized and protected from infection, and if in a few days it is evident that the parts are injured beyond the power of repair, am- putation or excision may be resorted to with as fair a prospect of success as if performed as a primary operation. In many compound fractures with extensive destruction of the bones, muscles, vessels, and nerves, such as is produced in railway and machinery accidents, primary amputation offers the patient the best chance of recovery. In compound fractures involving