149 GANGRENE FROM PRESSURE. In direct gangrene, where, as a result of the injury, the part is abso- lutely dead, as is often seen in injuries of the limbs in railway and ma- chinery accidents, it is manifestly unwise to wait until putrefactive changes have occurred in the dead tissues, for, although it is possible to keep the part from putrefaction for a few days by careful sterilization of the wound and the use of antiseptic dressings, sooner or later these changes will occur, and a certain amount of constitutional infection will take place. In such a case the part should be removed by amputation as soon as the patient has reacted from the shock consequent upon the traumatism, care being taken that the operation is done through tissue the vitality of which has not been impaired by the injury. In traumatic gangrene involving the extremities, as soon as the gan- grenous process is well established, if the patient's constitutional condition is fair, it is wise not to wait for lines of demarcation and of separation to form, but to amputate the part through healthy tissue and thus avoid the risk of incurring septic infection. In localized traumatic gangrene where the question of amputation is not to be considered, incisions should be made to relieve tension and to favor the escape of discharges, and the part should be dressed with dry antiseptic dressings. Under this treatment the dead tissue will be thrown off after the line of separation is well established, and a healthy granulating surface will be left. In gangrene resulting from burns, scalds, or exposure to cold, it is often difficult to ascertain how far the process will involve the tissues, so that it is in these cases wiser to wait until the lines of demarcation and separation are formed before resorting to operation. As there is often a considerable amount of constitutional disturbance in cases of traumatic gangrene, the patient should be given stimulants and quinine, with opium to relieve pain and secure sleep, and should also have a nourishing diet. In moist gangrene resulting from embolism, if amputation is required the operation should be delayed until the line of demarcation is fully estab- lished, as in such cases it is usually impossible to determine the limit of the gangrenous process before that time. Gangrene from Pressure.—Continued pressure upon a part will often result in the production of localized gangrene. This is more apt to result in parts where the circulation is feeble and the conditions are favorable for complete stasis. Decubitus or bed sores are produced in this manner in debilitated subjects by long rest in one position in the recumbent posture ; the parts usually attacked are the skin over the sacrum and that of the scapulse, and the heels. The same condition may result from the long- continued application of splints; the gangrenous surface in these cases is known as a splint-sore. A form of gangrene known as neuropathic gangrene is often observed after fractures of the spine or injuries of the spinal cord ; here sloughs form rapidly in the tissues over the sacrum and heels and in other parts subjected to pressure. Gangrene in these cases seems to be due to a functional dis- turbance of the vaso-motor or trophic nerves. In patients who are to be