1116 PYELITIS. Symptoms.—The symptoms of renal suppuration will depend upon the cause of the inflammation. When there is a renal calculus some pyogenic infection must take place in order to produce the suppuration. In such cases there will be the previous symptoms of stone, such as hsematuria and pain in the kidney, increased by motion, and to them will be added the signs of acute inflammation, such as fever, with possibly a chill and the appearance of pus in the urine. The metastatic abscesses usually run a course without symptoms except an irregular elevation of temperature and possibly a chill occurring with the development of a fresh pyamiic focus. The local symptoms of suppuration in the kidney are pain in the loins and tenderness over the affected organ, which is easily detected by passing the hand under the loin as the patient lies upon the back and giving a sharp upward movement with the fingers. The organ may be enlarged percep- tibly, but this is more likely to be the case in pyonephrosis than in abscess of the kidney-substance. The urine will be diminished in quantity, will have a high specific gravity, and will sometimes contain albumin in con- siderable quantities. There are usually no casts, but pus or blood will appear if the abscess has penetrated the pelvis. The general symptoms of the condition are fever, with or without a chill, and ursemic symptoms. The suppuration may follow a cystitis, whether pyogenic or gonorrhoeal in origin, and is frequent from infection after operations on the urinary organs, whence the name surgical kidney given to the condition. Pyelitis.—Pyelitis is an inflammation limited to the pelvis of the kid- ney, shown by desquamation of its epithelial lining, the peculiar caudate cells appearing in the urine, sometimes arranged in layers, accompanied by conical plugs of p\is-cells discharged from the mouths of the urinary tubules. When infection of the kidney takes place from below, pyelitis will gen- erally precede suppuration in the kidney-substance, and is, indeed, the lesion usually known under the name of surgical kidney. In the acute form of pyelitis the symptoms are similar to those described above. In the chronic form there may be little sign of the disease except in the urine, which is acid and contains large amounts of albumin with the character- istic epithelium of the pelvis and the groups of pus-cells just described, but without casts. In many cases, however, the epithelium has not the characteristic caudate appearance, and there is also danger of mistaking kite-shaped epithelium from the deeper layers of the bladder for the pelvic cells. The general disturbance set up by chronic pyelitis is usually slight, although there may be a little hectic fever, and anaemia is marked. The inflammation may or may not be accompanied by pain or tenderness. Pyonephrosis.—By pyonephrosis is meant a condition of distention of the pelvis and of the kidney, which may be converted into a thin sac filled with pus. It occurs in suppurative inflammation when there is obstruction of the ureter. The symptoms do not differ from those of pyelitis, as pyonephrosis is often an advanced stage of that affection, but the kidney forms a large tumor. The obstruction to the ureter may be complete, partial, or intermittent. In the first case no urine from the diseased kidney can enter the bladder, and if that organ and the other kidney be healthy the urine will be normal. In the majority of cases the obstruction