732 CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES OF THE FACE. a small bone known as the intermaxillary bone (Fig. 655), in which the incisor teeth develop. This small bone often projects far beyond the line of the gums, and adds greatly to the difficulty of any plastic operation under- Fig. 654. Fig. 655. Development of the foetal face. t,Coste.) taken to correct the deformity. The upper lip is formed of three parts, the lateral being supplied by the processes of the upper jaw, and the central part, or philtrum, growing from the vomer and the intermaxillary bone. Thus the cleft of hare-lip is always either on one side or on both, but never in the centre. (Fig. 656.) The etiology of congenital deformities is not fully understood. In a cer- tain small number of cases heredity seems to be active, but children with hare-lip and cleft palate often come from perfectly healthy parents in whose families nothing of the kind has been known, and, conversely, many individuals with hare-lip have perfectly well-formed offspring. The most generally received theories are the hypoth- esis of arrested development from unknown causes, and that of the mechanical prevention of development by amniotic bands and adhesions. Amniotic bands may become interposed in a cleft and prevent union of its sides, or they may lie across one of the pro- cesses and hinder its growth to normal size and its union with its fellow, or they may be adherent to the process and to some other part of the foetus and by their traction prevent the growth of the former. Finally, broad adhesions may form between the amnion and any part of the foetus, and thus check the growth of the latter. Hare-lip.—The commonest of the congenital deformities of the face is hare-lip (Fig. 656), by which is understood a cleft of the upper lip. It may be only a notch on the red border, may extend half-way through the lip, or may be complete; and in about one-half the cases it is associated with cleft palate. There may be a cleft on one side only, or one on each side. (Fig. 657.) In very extensive hare-lip and cleft palate there may be an absence of the central part of the lip with the intermaxillary bone and part of the vomer, so that the cleft appears to be median, but it is really a Double cleft palate with intermaxillary bone attached to vomer. (From Agnew.)