PUERPERAL MASTITIS. 899 is most common during the activity of the gland in the puerperal .state, but is also found at other periods. Puerperal Mastitis.—In the puerperal condition the infection generally arises from some erosion or wound of the nipple occasioned by suckling. The usual type of puerperal mastitis is one in which only one or two of the main lobes of the gland are involved. The breast presents a tender swelling, limited to a part or involving the entire mamma, for even if the abscess is limited to one lobe the congestion is liable to extend through the entire gland. There are pain and tenderness, oedema and redness of the skin, fever, and, possibly, a chill; in fact, the symptoms of acute inflammation. The diagnosis is to be made between mastitis and a simple congestion or re- tention of milk in the gland, or some of the acute varieties of neoplasm. The symptoms of simple congestion of the gland or of retention of milk caused by obstruction of the nipple closely resemble those of the early stages of in- flammation ; but, fortunately, the treatment is the same in the three condi- tions. The diagnosis of acute mastitis from a rapidly growing tumor may be exceedingly difficult, for a sarcoma may occasion a rise of temperature. Occasionally a fibro adenoma of the gland increases suddenly with inflam- matory symptoms during lactation, and then subsides to its original size and form. A delay of a few days ought to be sufficient to make the dis- tinction between these conditions, as pus will soon appear in mastitis. Prognosis.—The prognosis of puerperal mastitis is not bad. The in- flammation in some cases will resolve ; in most cases under prompt treatment it forms only a limited abscess, which heals when incised, leaving a small scar as the only result of the affection. Under bad treatment or in very virulent cases the inflammation may involve several lobes, each forming an abscess by itself, the cavities of which may or may not communicate, and great destruction of the tissues of the breast may result. Yet even in these cases recovery may take place under prompt treatment, and, in spite of the apparent destruction of its tissues, the breast is often quite as active in milk- production afterwards as one which has never been inflamed. Treatment.—The treatment in the first stages consists in the application of an ice-bag, or simple compression with a thick cotton dressing and a firm bandage. If nursing with the other breast is continued, the nipple of the breast under compression should be left uncovered, so that milk can escape from it, but no nursing should be done upon that side. It is recommended by good authority that in the very earliest stages gentle massage of the breast should be made, and this treatment will often relieve an obstructed nipple. It is even possible that massage may dissipate functional congestion ; but in the early stages of inflammation it would certainly do harm. If there is evi- dence of true infection, therefore, massage should never be employed, the application of cold, complete functional rest, and compression being the proper treatment. If there is an ulcer or abrasion of the nipple, it must be carefully cleansed and dressed in an aseptic manner. In the stage of abscess incision is necessary, and should be made as early as possible. Pus will form in two or three days, and should be immediately evacuated in order to pre- vent burrowing and further destruction of the tissues. The incisions for abscess should be made in radiating lines from the nipple, and if there is