TEEATMENT OF STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 1080 Diagnosis of Stricture.—The diagnosis of stricture is made by the local examination, for which the bulbous bougie (Fig. 832) is the proper in- Fig. 832. strument. When introduced into a stricture through which it just passes, the broad shoulder of the bulb is grasped by the stricture on withdrawal, so that the exact depth of the narrowest point may be ascertained by placing the finger on the stem of the instrument at the meatus, withdrawing it, and measuring the distance marked. The peculiar jump which a bulb gives when withdrawn through a stricture is an important diagnostic sign, as the sensation is much less distinct when the obstruction is the result of the pro- jection of a tumor into the canal, or some such cause. The bulbous bougie is of little value in the deep urethra, as it may catch upon the edges of the opening in the triangular ligament and simulate the existence of a stricture. It is also difficult to dislodge the instrument in that case, and the necessary force may break it and leave the bulbous end in the bladder ; consequently it should not be introduced over six inches from the meatus. Before exam- ining a urethra for stricture a narrow meatus must be divided. The largest possible instrument should be introduced first, for it more readily overcomes muscular spasm and is less apt to catch in the lacunae and false passages. Successively smaller bulbs are employed, down to 10 French, until one is found which passes the stricture, but under that size flexible bougies are to be used. The wethrameter is an instrument which can be expanded after introduction into the urethra, and which will show on a dial the exact limit of distensibility at any point of the canal. The best known is that of Otis. It is intended to measure the urethra in order to demonstrate the existence of strictures of large calibre, but is useful also in locating strictures which exist behind a meatus narrower than themselves when it is not desirable to enlarge that orifice. Treatment.—Only two methods of treating strictures need be consid- ered—namely, dilatation and urethrotomy. Electrolysis has no advantage over the cutting operation if the currents are strong enough to destroy the mucous membrane, and none over dilatation if very feeble currents are employed. Dilatation is carried out by the introduction of instruments of con- stantly increasing diameter, passed at regular intervals, the frequency of which depends upon the tightness of the stricture and its tendency to recon- traction. The method of rapid dilatation, by which the stricture is also lacerated, is too uncertain and dangerous, and has fallen into disuse. If the stricture is very tight, it may be necessary to begin with a filiform bougie, and if retention is present when treatment is begun, the filiform should be left in the bladder, for enough urine will escape by its side to relieve the