88 FIBROMA. the tumor formation, making masses of enamel, dentine, and ceinentine, or it may be composed mainly of one substance. (Fig. 47.) Clinical Appearance.—Odontomata are generally seen soon after pu- berty or in early adult life. They form hard tumors, often of considerable Fig. 46. Fig. 47. Composite odontome. (Agnew.) Solid enamel odontome. (Agnew.) size, usually about the lower jaw, more rarely in the upper jaw or the antrum, covered with normal mucous membrane, generally painless, of very slow growth, and objectionable only because of the deformity which tliey occasion. They may become infected and give rise to symptoms resembling necrosis. Their existence should be thought of in connection with any tumor about the alveolar border, or in any case of necrosis which presents unusual clinical characteristics. The diagnosis can generally be made by a study of the teeth, observing their irregular formation, or the congenital absence of one or more of them. A skiagraph taken by the X ray may show the tooth in the centre of the tumor. In any doubtful case the sup- posed sarcoma should be explored by incision before sacrificing the jaw. If the tumor contains one of these badly formed teeth in its centre, it is certain to be an odontome and not malignant. Treatment.—Odontomes should be removed by exposing them and dis- secting out every part of the lining of the sac, chiselling away enough bone for this purpose. FIBROMA. A fibroma is a tumor composed of any of the different types of fibrous tissue. Structure.—Some fibromata are formed of a hard, dense, ligamentous tissue, with fibres closely woven in different directions, but often arranged concentrically around the blood-vessels. (Fig. 48.) Some are of looser and somewhat elastic structure, and still others have a wide-meshed areolar tissue often filled with serum, which gives them the appearance of cedematous tissue. Besides the pure fibromata, fibrous tissue is often found as a part of other tumors, associated with fat in fibrolipomata, or with muscular tissue in uterine fibromyomata, or forming the stroma of malignant tumors. The boundary line between fibroma and fibrosarcoma is sometimes very ill de- fined, sarcoma being distinguished by the presence of a certain quantity of actively growing cells instead of the quiescent fibres, by the shorter and broader nuclei, and by the incomplete capsule. Hard fibromata are usually supplied with very small blood-vessels and are well encapsulated, and they