EXTERNAL URETHROTOMY. 10S3 injury. In order to overcome these objections the tunnelled catheter has a hollow shaft instead of a solid one, through which the urine can flow, and it can thus be proved that the instrument has entered the bladder. The guide having been introduced into the bladder, an incision is made in the median line of the perineum from the posterior limits of the scrotum to the anterior edge of the sphincter ani. This incision is deepened until the bulbous urethra is reached. If the bulb is very well marked, it can sometimes be drawn forward by a retractor and the troublesome hemorrhage from this source avoided, but in the majority of cases the bulb does not bleed very profusely. The incision is deepened in the median line until the urethra is reached, when the guide can generally be felt with the tip of the finger and the canal opened. A director is inserted, the staff removed, and then a small silver female catheter can be slipped backward along the director into the bladder. When the anterior strictures have been dealt with by internal urethrotomy, a large sound is carried down from the meatus to the wound and then passed onward into the bladder. If any obstruction is met with in this region, it is removed by passing a director into the canal and nicking the obstructing point with a blunt-pointed knife. Occasionally there is troublesome oozing of blood, or even active hemorrhage from the deeper parts, which persists after the operation. In such cases a canule a chemise is constructed by insert- ing the end of a catheter through a hole in a square piece of gauze, and tying the latter firmly around the catheter by a string embracing the edges of the hole in the gauze. The catheter is inserted in the bladder and the gauze spread over the edges of the wound so that it has the shape of a funnel, the apex being in the bladder. Strips of gauze are packed in the funnel thus formed until sufficient pressure is obtained to control the hemorrhage. External Urethrotomy without a Guide.—If no guide can be passed, the operation becomes one of the most difficult in surgery, and even experienced men occasionally fail to find the urethra. The patient should be placed in the lithotomy position squarely on his back, in front of a good light, and the incision very cautiously made exactly in the median line, and deepened layer by layer in order to recognize the different parts as they are divided. Eetractors should be placed in the wound, silk sutures passed through its edges being best for this purpose, and the assistants should be careful to maintain equal traction on both sides, so as not to mislead the operator. The umbilicus of the patient should be in full view, so that the operator may be perfectly certain of the direction of the median plane of the body. When the deepest parts are reached, a finger in the rectum may assist in giving the exact relations of the urethra, and the apex of the subpubic arch can also be used as a guide. If there has been but little infiltration of urine, the urethra may be recognized when it is reached, but when there are fistulre and cicatricial tissue, or where there is actual extravasation of urine at the time of operation, all landmarks may be lost. The surgeon should then carry the knife gradually deeper in the median line, watching for anything which looks like mucous membrane to indicate that the urethra has been opened. He may be misled by the endothelial lining of the vessels in the cavernous tissue, which often resembles the diseased mucous membrane of the urethra. Any opening which appears to present mucous membrane should be cau-