597 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ASTRAGALUS. excised. After the reduction or excision of the bone a moulded pasteboard splint should be applied for a few days, and when the swelling has subsided a plaster of Paris bandage should be applied. Backward Dislocation of the Astragalus.—In this accident the astragalus is forced posteriorly from its position between the malleoli, and separated from the os calcis and the scaphoid. This displacement is pro- duced by force acting upon the anterior part of the ankle when the tar- sus is strongly flexed upon the bones of the leg. In this dislocation there is a prominence above the heel, the foot is shortened, and there is undue prominence of the tendo Achillis over the displaced bone. Treatment.— Attempts to reduce this dislocation have often proved unsuccessful, and cases have recovered with a fairly useful limb with the bone still out of place. Efforts should, however, always be made to accomplish reduction. The patient being anesthetized, and the leg being flexed upon the thigh, extension and counter-extension should be made, and by pushing the bones of the leg backward and drawing the foot forward the dislocation may some- times be reduced. If these manipulations fail, the displaced bone should be exposed by incision and excised. Lateral Dislocations of the Astragalus.—Lateral dislocations of the astragalus are frequently associated with fracture of either the external or the internal malleolus. In these dislocations the foot may be inverted or everted. Treatment.—They are reduced by the same procedures that are employed in the backward and forward dislocations, and the after- treatment is similar. Dislocation of the Astragalus by Rotation.—This is a rare form of dislocation of the astragalus. It is produced by the patient falling from a height upon the foot, the foot rotating while the leg is fixed. The astrag- alus occupies its position between the malleoli, but the relations of its artic- ular surface are changed. The bone may be turned vertically or trans- versely. There is fixation at the ankle, with more or less change in shape, produced by the rotation of the astragalus. Treatment.—Attempts should be made to reduce this displacement by making extension and counter- extension, if necessary dividing the tendo Achillis subcutaneously and then attempting to replace the bone by manipulation. This often proves impossible, and excision of the astragalus may be required. Sub-Astragaloid Dislocation.—This is extremely rare, and consists in a separation of the calcaneum and the scaphoid from the astragalus. The displacement of the bones may be backward, forward, outward, or inward. Fractures of the astragalus and of the external malleolus have been observed in connection with it. Symptoms.—In this dislocation the foot is inverted or everted, according as the displacement is outward or inward, and the astragalus is prominent in front of the ankle. Shortening or lengthening of the foot would be observed in backward or forward dislocation. Treat- ment.—The patient should be anaesthetized, and extension and counter- extension made, and with manipulation at the same time it may be possible to reduce the deformity. Compound Dislocations of the Astragalus.—Compound disloca- tions of the astragalus are serious injuries, and usually result from falls