CIRCUMCISION. 11.31 the knife is very sharp, it is best to transfix the flap of skin in the centre and cut outward in order to make a smooth cut. The cutaneous layer of the prepuce then retracts, leaving the raw surface of the inner layer exposed. The opening in the inner layer must then he enlarged by a dorsal median incision extending to the corona, and the two triangular flaps thus made are peeled off the surface of the glans by tearing the adhesions or dissecting them away with a knife if they are very strong. In infants, as a rule, the inner layer of the prepuce can be split by seizing it with the thumb nails so as to tear it and separate the adhesions at the same time. The accumu- lated smegma must be thoroughly removed, the sharp corners of the inner flaps cut away and rounded, and then the inner layer united to the outer by interrupted sutures. (Fig. 854.) There is usually no hemorrhage of mo- ment, and if the artery at the frenum should be troublesome it may be included in one of FlG- 854- the sutures. Special care must be taken in making the incision not to slice off the end of the glans. an accident which may readily occur if strong adhesions exist, and not to shorten the frenum too much, because of the disagreeable dragging a short frenum causes during erection. The oblique incision avoids the latter error, and also makes the opening larger. Thorough asepsis should be ob- served, and at the conclusion of the operation Eesult oT^cumcision-sutures in place, the wound is dressed by winding a strip of gauze around the penis. This may be secured in place by collodion or by strips of rubber plaster. In infants the dressings will be constantly wet with urine, and should be removed after the first twenty-four hours, the mother applying sterilized gauze covered with boric acid ointment after each urina- tion. In nervous individuals and in children it is wise to employ general anaesthesia for circumcision, but in the ordinary adult the operation can be performed under cocaine, and in infants no anaesthesia is necessary, as the operation may be completed in a few minutes, and the pain is not lasting. Paraphimosis.—If a prepuce with a moderately tight orifice be drawn backward over the glans in play, in violent coitus, or in attempts to uncover the glans for washing, especially during the existence of venereal disease, the narrow band may be caught behind the corona, and the individual will be unable to draw it forward again. To this condition the name of para- phimosis has been given. The constriction of the narrow band around the organ impedes the circulation of the glans, and the inner layer of the pre- puce, which is usually everted as the prepuce is retracted, then becomes oedeniatous, and may slough if the pressure is not relieved in time. As a rule, the constricting bands slough first, and the circulation is thus restored sufficiently to prevent complete gangrene of the parts beyond. As the result of the swelling the inner layer of the prepuce forms a series of trans- verse folds with deep fissures between them, but the greatest constriction will always be made by the edge of the preputial orifice, and is usually found at the uppermost of the transverse fissures.