167 CATGUT. bichloride solution. When so preserved, before being employed the moist- ure should be squeezed from them, or they should be washed in water which has been boiled before being brought in contact with the wound. Silk.—Silk for sutures or ligatures should be sterilized by boiling it for thirty minutes, after which it is to be placed in stoppered bottles and cov- ered with a five per cent, solution of carbolic acid in alcohol, or in ninety- five per cent, alcohol, or in 1 to 1000 bichloride and alcohol solution. Silkworm-Gut.—Silkworm-gut is an excellent material for sutures, and may be sterilized by boiling it for fifteen minutes, or by placing it for one-half hour in a five per cent, carbolic solution : after being sterilized it should be kept in ninety-five per cent, alcohol. There has recently been introduced an iron-dyed black silkworm-gut, which makes the sutures more prominent and thus facilitates their removal. Catgut Ligatures and Sutures.—Catgut is the ideal material for ligatures and sutures, but has the disadvantages of difficulty and uncertainty in its sterilization. Eaw catgut is often infected with microbes, and there- fore thorough sterilization alone can render it a safe material for ligatures and sutures. Von Bergmann's method of preparing catgut, which we have found one of the most satisfactory, consists in winding the catgut loosely upon glass rods or spools ; these spools are placed in ether for twenty-four hours ; the ether is then poured off, and the catgut is placed in the following solu- tion : bichloride of mercury, 10 parts; absolute alcohol, 800 parts; dis- tilled water, 200 parts. Eemove from this solution in twenty-four hours, and place it in a similar solution for forty-eight hours; then place it in absolute alcohol. If you desire the gut to be soft, add twenty per cent, of glycerin to the absolute alcohol. To make the sterilization absolutely cer- tain it has been found advantageous to soak the catgut for thirty minutes in a 1 to 1000 aqueous bichloride solution before placing it in the alcoholic solution of bichloride. Catgut may also be sterilized by boiling. The most satisfactory method is that devised by Fowler, which consists in placing a number of strands of catgut in an ordinary test-tube which is filled with ninety-five per cent, alcohol to within half an inch of the top ; a wad of cotton is next pushed into the mouth of the tube, and a cork is introduced. The tubes thus pre- pared are placed inverted in a fruit-jar filled with ninety-five per cent, alcohol; the jar is then closed and placed in a water-bath and kept at a boiling temperature for an hour. Formalin Catgut.—This is prepared by winding catgut loosely on glass spools and keeping them for forty-eight hours in a vessel containing equal parts of alcohol and ether. They should next be washed for a few minutes in alcohol and placed in ajar containing equal parts of alcohol and formalin, and allowed to remain for several days. The excess of formalin should then be washed away with alcohol, and the catgut kept for use in ninety-five per cent, alcohol. Bichloride of Palladium Catgut.—Catgut should be soaked in ether from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, according to the size of the gut. It- is then placed in a mixture of mercuric bichloride, 40 grains ; tartaric acid,