SYMPTOMS OF HERNIA. 983 bowel is filled with fecal matter ; or it may be tense if there is any constric- tion at the ring. It often disappears spontaneously, or at least diminishes in size, when the patient lies down. There is a distinct impulse to be felt in the swelling when the patient Fig. 793. coughs. Impulse on coughing is easily obtained ~ Wi^ in a large hernia by grasping it with the hand and directing the patient to cough, when an expansile distention of the sac will be felt. In a bubonocele it is recognized by invaginating the scrotum and passing .jHfi the finger into the inguinal canal, so that when the H patient coughs the impulse of the tumor will be felt against the tip of the finger; but this impulse must not be confounded with the contraction of the muscles around the invaginating finger. Scrotal hernia} wheu weighed in the hand are light, the swelling is soft and compressible, and fluctuation is seldom present unless there is free fluid in the sac. If the hernia includes bowel containing gas, resonance on percussion is evi- dent. When the hernia is reduced the contents slip back rather suddenly, and are generally easily kept back by pressure over the ring. When the hernia is very small only an indefinite swelling may be felt, no distinct tumor being detected, and yet when pressure is made a sense that something yields and slips back, as in the reduction of a hernia, will enable the diag- Large double ingulnal hemia. nosis to be made. The hernial swelling is not trans- (Case of Dr. r. Abbe.) lucent, with rare exceptions iu children. It is usually pyriform in shape, but the neck is rather thick and can be traced directly to one of the hernial openings. If the hernia is allowed to return after reduc- tion, the swelling can be seen to begin above and to descend towards the bottom of the scrotum, and the patient will often say that the swelling appeared first in the groin and descended later into the scrotum. If the protruded bowel becomes clogged with fecal matter the passage of the latter may be completely arrested, and the hernia is said to be ob- structed or incarcerated. If the rupture has been previously reducible its contents can no longer be returned, and the tumor grows tense, painful, and may show signs of beginning inflammation. The impulse on coughing is lost. Absolute constipation exists after the intestine below the hernia has been emptied, and vomiting begins, assuming a fecal character later. Tympanites develops in the tumor and in the abdomen. The first symp- toms are those of subacute intestinal obstruction, and if not relieved they are soon succeeded by those of strangulation. When strangulation takes place there is severe pain ; vomiting begins early, is apt to be violent, and soon becomes fecal; and the constipation is absolute, not even gas being passed by rectum. The patient is often severely prostrated, and the temperature may be subnormal. The hernial tumor becomes tense and tender, and the cough-impulse is lost. The tumor will be resonant on percussion if gas is present. There are often signs of