SPONTANEOUS OSTEOMYELITIS. 517 point of infection, consequently the disease commonly begins at or near the epiphyses. Causes.—Osteomyelitis may occur either as an acute or as a chronic affection, and in either variety of the disease the essential cause is the pres- ence of one or more varieties of pyogenic organisms: the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus is the organism oftenest observed. Infection may occur by direct extension from a suppurating lesion by means of the lymph-ves- sels, but more frequently it results from pyogenic organisms which have found their way into the circulation from an infected wound, or through the respiratory or intestinal mucous membrane, and accumulate in the medul- lary tissue in the region of the epiphyses, this localization being probably due to the increased vascularity of the bone in these positions. Slight trau- matisms in the region of the epiphyses of the long bones may predispose to the localization of the pyogenic organisms at these points. We are dis- posed to think that slight traumatisms of the extremities of the long bones are important in the localization and development of the disease. Kocher believes that the extravasation of blood following a traumatism plays an im- portant role by acting as a culture medium for the growth of micro-organ- isms. In almost all the cases of osteomyelitis that have come under our observation there was a history of a sprain or twist which was followed by the development of the infective inflammation. We had under our care some time ago an anaemic, delicate child who had sustained a simple fracture of the lower end of the fibula, in whom several weeks afterwards there de- veloped an osteomyelitis at the seat of fracture, followed by suppuration and necrosis of the bone. Experimentally osteomyelitis has been produced in animals suffering from fractures by the injection of septic materials into the circulation. It is a curious fact, however, that slight traumatisms, such as sprains and twists about the epiphyses, seem much more likely to be fol- lowed by osteomyelitis than serious injuries, such as extensive comminuted fractures. We often see patients suffering with one or more fractures who have at the same time a suppurating and presumably infected wound, and yet the development of osteomyelitis in these cases is a very rare occurrence. Osteomyelitis not only results from infection by staphylococci and strep- tococci, but may be caused by certain specific organisms, such as those of typhoid fever, scarlet fever, measles, variola, and diphtheria; in such cases the infection is probably a mixed one. The not infrequent occurrence of osteomyelitis and necrosis of the jaw following measles and scarlet fever was so well recognized by the older surgeons that the name exanthematous necrosis was applied to this affection. Osteomyelitis and subsequent necrosis are also occasionally seen after typhoid fever, diphtheria, and small-pox. (Fig. 443.) Exposure to cold and sudden chilling of the body in children are considered by Senn to be frequent causes of osteomyelitis. Prolonged chilling of the surface of the body produces a sudden disturbance in the circulation of the medullary tissue of the bone, resulting in congestion, implantation, and localization of the pyogenic organisms which may be present in the circula- tion. Under such conditions the localization is apt to occur at the point of least resistance, the medullary tissue, and suppurative inflammation de- velops. In many cases of osteomyelitis the existence of a distinct suppu-