EXCISION OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 649 either event the result is apt to be satisfactory as regards the usefulness of the part. Excision of the Astragalus.—Excision of this bone may be re- quired for compound fractures or dislocations or for tuberculous disease of the tarsus, and is often employed to correct the deformity in aggravated forms of club-foot. In excising this bone an incision is made on the outside of the ankle-joint, very similar to that employed for excision of the ankle- Fig. 578. Resection of the lower part of the fibula. Incision for excision of the ankle-joint. joint; the external lateral ligaments are divided, and the astragalus is exposed by forcibly inverting the foot; the bone is then seized with strong forceps, its ligamentous attachments are divided with a probe-pointed knife, and it is removed. The dressing consists in introducing a drainage-tube if it is considered necessary, closing the wound with sutures, and applying a gauze dressing, after which the foot should be secured in a position at a right angle to the leg, by means of a plaster of Paris bandage, covering the foot and leg, or by moulded splints of binders' board secured by a bandage. The functional result after excision of the astragalus is usually very satis- factory. Excision of the Os Calcis.—Excision of the os calcis may be required in cases of compound fractures of this bone, or for caries or necrosis. Operation.—In excising the os calcis an incision is made beginning at the upper part of the bone at the inner border of the tendo Achillis, which passes around the back and outer surface of the foot, dividing this tendon, to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; a short incision is then made at the anterior end of the first incision, and carried down to the sole of the foot; the bone is exposed and held by forceps, and the flap thus formed, which includes the peronei tendons, is separated from the bone ; the cuboid liga- ments are divided, as well as the interosseous ligament between the os calcis and the astragalus, and the bone is then removed with forceps. The ends of the divided tendo Achillis should then be brought together with a few