1114 FLOATING AND MOVABLE KIDNEY. INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. Injuries.—The kidney may be lacerated aud its capsule ruptured by a severe contusion of the abdomen or loins, or it may be wounded by pene- trating objects, as in stab or gunshot wouuds. Slight contusions cause pain and local tenderness,, and sometimes a transient hematuria. Severer inju- ries cause marked hematuria, sometimes with attacks of renal colic from blocking of the ureter by clots. When the capsule is ruptured the urine may escape and cause perinephritic abscesses or peritonitis, according to the situation of the rupture, but the signs of urinary extravasation and inflam- mation do not usually appear for three or four days. Penetrating wounds are followed by free hemorrhage, and later by an escape of urine, and, unless the wound be a very open one, urinary extravasation and inflammation of the surrounding tissues will occur. The treatment of the slight injuries con- sists in rest in bed, and washing out of the bladder if there is a tendency for clots to accumulate in it. If there is severe hemorrhage, the kidney should be exposed and the laceration closed by sutures in order to arrest it, or, if this is impracticable, the organ should be removed. Nephrectomy is also indicated when the kidney is severely crushed or lacerated, and especially if there is a liability of peritonitis from an anterior rent in the capsule. The most dangerous cases are those with internal hemorrhage and extravasation of urine, without much bleeding into the bladder. Urinary infiltration and abscess should be treated by free incision, and small punctured wounds should be sufficiently enlarged to afford good drainage. Anomalies.—One kidney may be very small and atrophied, or even entirely absent. In some cases there is but a single kidney, which occupies the middle line, and is made up of the two kidneys, more or less fused to- gether or connected by a transverse bar of kidney-substance, and often assuming the shape of a horseshoe. Floating and Movable Kidney.—Anomalies in the position of the kidney are exceedingly frequent, and they are nearly all brought about by relaxation of the peritoneal ligaments which hold the organ in place, and which may become so lax as to form a mesonephron and allow the kidney to move to all parts of the abdomen, for the kidney has been found in the pelvis and even in an inguinal hernial sac. The term floating kidney is reserved for cases in which there is a true mesonephron, those in which the kidney has only abnormal mobility behind the peritoneum being called movable kidney. A true floating kidney is a congenital abnormality. Descent of the kidney is favored by absorption of fat in stout persons, and may follow severe muscular efforts, such as lifting heavy weights. The displacement is seven times more common in women than in men, perhaps on account of the abdominal changes caused by pregnancy, and it is more frequent on the right side. In estimating the amount of displacement it should be noted that the right kidney naturally lies a little lower than the left, owing to the bulk of the liver, and that in patients with a relaxed abdomen the lower end of the normal kidney can be felt for about one-third of its long diameter. If the entire kidney can be palpated, it may usually be considered pathologically movable.