310 TUMORS OF THE SKIN. ing where it has burrowed under the epidermis, and it can often be dug out with a needle-point at the farthest end of the burrow. Treatment.—The parasite can be destroyed by a hot bath, followed by inunctions of sulphur and balsam of Peru, aa 3i, petrolatum twice daily for three days, after which the patient takes a hot bath and changes all his clothing. A curious affection may be mentioned here, although it is quite as much a disease of the subcutaneous tissues as of the skin—namely, dermatolysis, which is characterized by a redundancy of the skin, the latter at the same time being so loosely connected with the underlying parts that it can be lifted up, and even hangs in loose folds by its own weight. The cause of this rather rare affection is not known, nor is there any efficient cure, although when it is of limited extent excision might be practised. Tumors of the skin (including warts) are considered elsewhere. But we may note here the callosities which form on parts exposed to pressure, called corns when they attain great thickness over limited areas, and the so-called horns. Callosities are ordinarily of little significance, but occa- sionally some infection reaches the base, and very troublesome inflammation is the result, which is best treated by early incision if it does not disappear in twenty-four hours of treatment by wet dressings or poultices. To re- move callosities, the best application is salicylic acid in ointment or collo- dion (ten per cent.). Callosities are merely thickened layers of cornified epithelium in the upper layers of the skin, but in corns the process extends deeper, the cornified epithelium collecting between and displacing the pa- pilla? themselves, which may also be hypertrophied. Corns are to be treated by soaking them in hot water and scraping them down when soft, or by the application of salicylic acid in a ten per cent, ointment or solution in collo- diuni. It is possible by a thin but not too sharp knife to extirpate the corn without bleeding, but recurrence is more apt to take place than when the epidermis is more gradually removed, and infection is very likely to occur ; in fact, inflammatory conditions of the feet very commonly originate in im- proper surgery applied to corns. A soft corn is merely an ulcerated fissure between the toes or in the folds of skin near them, with some thickening of the epithelium at its edge. It should be treated like any other ulcer, by sterilization, dry dressing, rest, and, if necessary, by incision, followed by rest until complete healing takes place. The horns which are occasionally observed growing from the skin of individuals who are careless as to proper washing are generally found on the forehead or on the glans penis. They are simply accumulations of cornified epithelium and dirt, and generally take their origin from a wart, and in consequence hypertrophied papillae will be found beneath them. They may attain a length of several inches. The Nails.—The nails are subject to certain diseases and trophic changes. Occasionally they become detached and fall out without apparent reason, or they are insufficiently cornified and remain soft and fleshy, or they may hypertrophy and become like animals' claws. (Fig. 249.) None of these conditions admit of treatment other than extirpation by removal and destruction of the matrix. Inflammatory conditions due to the usual in- fections are observed about the nails, known as onychia when the matrix itself is attacked, and as paronychia if the disease is simply adjacent to