1060 COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHOEA. per cent, of cases of gonorrhoea. Gonorrhceal arthritis is described under Diseases of the Joints. Prostatitis is due to an extension of the inflammation from the posterior urethra, and may consist simply in congestion of the prostate, or may go on to actual inflammation and suppuration. It is indicated by heat and throb- bing in the perineum, a sense of fulness in the rectum, increased frequency of urination, and perhaps rectal and vesical tenesmus. Pain is felt in the perineum, urethra, testicles, and down into the thighs, and fever is usually present. Congestion generally disappears in about ten days, but if suppu- ration occurs the above symptoms are much aggravated, and sweats and rigors may occur. The resulting abscess, which may hold from one drachm up to several ounces of pus, will most commonly point in the urethra, but may open into the rectum, the perineum, the ischio-rectal fossa, the bladder, or the peritoneum. The prognosis in small abscesses is usually favorable, but prostatic abscess may result in pyaemia, peritonitis, or fistula, and the inflammation may extend to the seminal vesicles and epididymis. Treatment.—The treatment consists in confinement to bed, with light diet, and attention to the bowels is necessary. Opium, bromides, citrate of potassium, and hyoscyamus are useful internally. Leeches to the perineum, followed by a hot sitz-bath, and hot or cold applications to the perineum and the rectum, according to the relief given, are to be used. If retention occurs, careful catheterization may be required. Urethral treatment should be suspended. If the abscess points into the urethra, the passage of the catheter to evacuate the bladder will generally rupture it. Suprapubic aspiration and suprapubic cystotomy, with puncture of the abscess, have also been recommended in these cases. If it points towards the perineum or the rectum, a perineal incision should be employed. Periprostatic abscess may simulate prostatic abscess, and demands the same treatment. Chronic prostatitis is described on page 1154. Gonorrhoea! cystitis occurs as an extension of inflammation from the posterior urethra, and rarely involves the entire surface, being generally confined to the neck of the bladder. Its symptoms are those of posterior urethritis, with vesical tenesmus especially pronounced. In the chronic stage the symptoms abate in severity. There is increased frequency of micturition, with pain following, and often hematuria from a villous con- dition of the mucous membrane. Eesidual urine is present, and finally alkaline fermentation. The pelvis of the kidney may become secondarily involved through the ureter. Treatment in the acute stage consists in the stopping of injections, rest in bed, light diet, alkaline diluent drinks, and local applications, either hot or cold. In subacute and chronic cases the antiblennorrhagics act well. Irrigation of the bladder should be practised with boric acid or Thiersch's mild solution, or with a weak solution of permanganate of potassium or of nitrate of silver, or with a bichloride solution (1 to 30,000). Perineal drainage may be necessary as a last resort. Inflammation of the seminal vesicles as a consequence of gonor- rhoea may be acute or chronic. Lloyd claims that it is a very frequent unrecognized complication of gonorrhoea. It comes on in the third or fourth