ACTINOMYCOSIS. 55 ACTINOMYCOSIS. Actinomycosis, or "lumpy jawis a disease produced by the ray-fungus, which forms star-shaped masses of mycelium, made up of radiating threads with bulbous extremities, a number of these being generally combined to make a mass about the size of a millet-seed, of cheesv consistency and usu- ally of a bright yellow color-, wound or a carious tooth, and grows in the tissues, which react towards it and surround it by a chronic in- flammatory granulation-tis- sue, often containing giant- cells, but made up of round cells, and closely resembling tuberculous or sarcomatous tissue. This mass continues to grow by the formation of new nodules in its neighbor- hood and their fusion with the original one, and may continue for some time as a firm tumor and attain con- siderable size. It soon be- comes infected with pyo- genic germs, and breaks down, forming a chronic abscess. The disease spreads by direct extension into the surrounding tissues, destroying even the bone, but not invading the lynrphaties. In rare cases it may perforate the wall of a vein by ulceration and thus produce an embolus, which will be carried off to form a metastatic focus in some distant organ. The fun- gus has been cultivated artificially, but with great difficulty. It has been found growing in carious teeth in almost pure cultures without causing any symptoms and without any tendency to spread. On the other hand, a carious tooth infected with it has been known to abrade and inoculate the tongue. While common in cattle, actinomycosis is rather a rare disease in man, except in certain countries, being perhaps most frequent in Austria. The external habitat of the fungus is not known, but several cases are on record in which the infection was directly associated with the presence of a grain or a beard of rye in the tissues, and its frequent occurrence in cattle, taken together with the fact that the great majority of the cases originate in the alimentary canal, especially the mouth and jaws, or in the respiratory tract, indicates that it is to be found in some of the vegetable foods. Symptoms.—In man the progress of the disease is best seen in cases of cutaneous inoculation. Here a hard nodule forms in the skin and subcuta- neous tissue, and reaches a certain size without pain or any sign of inflam- mation except congestion of the skin. The nodule often forms an abscess, which slowly perforates the skin and discharges from a small opening a (Fig. 24.) It gains access through some open Fig. 24. Actinomyces or ray-fungus. (After Israel.)