2G3 INSTRUMENTS FOR AMPUTATION. Fig. 181. to the bulk of the circulation the amount of blood which was in the limb before it was rendered antemic. Esmarch's bandage is now very generally used, and has proved a most valuable means of controlling hemorrhage and of saving blood during the operation, but caution should be observed in its use. The elastic constricting band should be applied for as short a time as possible and only firmly enough to control the circulation, for damage to the blood-vessels and nerves may occur from its too pro- longed and tight application. The principal disad- vantage in the use of elastic constriction consists in the fact that very troublesome oozing or consecutive hemorrhage follows by reason of a vaso-motor paral- ysis, which results from the pressure of the strap. This may be in a measure prevented by quick re- moval of the elastic constricting band as soon as the larger vessels have been secured. In operating upon the hands and feet of children an ordinary rubber drainage-tube may be employed instead of the elastic strap, to control the bleeding. In emergencies, where an ordinary elastic tube cannot be obtained, a pair of elastic suspenders may be employed in place of the elastic strap of Esmareh. Amputating Knives.—Formerly, when trans- fixion was the favorite method of amputation, very long amputating knives were used, but at the present time a stout scalpel having a blade three inches in length, or an amputating knife with a blade from six to eight inches in length, is usually employed. (Fig. 182.) A double-edged knife, known as a Esmarch's bandage applied. Fig. 182. Amputating knife and catlin. catlin (Fig. 182), is sometimes employed for dividing the interosseous tissues in operations where there are parallel bones. In amputations through the tarsus or of the metacarpal bones, or of the fingers or toes, a short, narrow- Fig. 183. Neill's linger knife. bladed bistoury, known as Neill's finger knife, will be found a most useful instrument. (Fig. 183.) Saw.—An amputating saw should have a blade about ten inches in length and two or two and a half inches in width, or a bow-saw with a nar- row blade (Fig. 184) which is reversible and can also be used for excisions