EEPAIR OF WOUNDS. 70 lines, converging at the poles, and then break away from their former con- nection with the equator, forming a daughter-star at each pole, a bright space appearing at the equator. (Fig. 29, 5.) A constriction next appears in the nucleus at the equator, and the nucleus divides into two distinct nuclei, each containing one of the daughter-stars. (Fig. 29, 6.) Simultaneously with this division, or immediately following it, the protoplasm of the cell- body divides in the same place, and thus two complete cells are produced. (Fig. 29, 8.) The chromatine threads lose their rosette arrangement, and gradually become imperceptible as the new cell returns to the quiescent state. This process of cell division is known as TcaryoTcinesis or Jcaryomi- tosis, from the Greek xdpuov} a nucleus, xiv-qai^ motion, and nhoq: a thread. (Flemming.) In simple cells like the leucocytes, reproduction may take place by simple fission, a constriction appearing in the nucleus and in the body of the cell in the same plane, and the two dividing without any visible protoplasmic changes, but such a mode of division probably does not occur in the more highly specialized cells of the various tissues. If the karyoki- netic action be not very vigorous, the nucleus may divide, but the cell-body remains intact, producing the cells with two or more nuclei so commonly observed. Every cell reproduces its kind, connective-tissue cells producing con- nective tissue, epithelial cells epithelium, bone producing bone. It has re- cently been shown that in the connective tissue the cells may become so quiescent as to be invisible to microscopic examination, only fibres being- discerned until some irritation has been applied to the tissues, when nuclei and cells appear in all directions among the fibres as suddenly as if by magic. Grawitz has aptly called these quiescent cells slumbering cells. The demonstration of these cells explains the extremely rapid appearance of im- mense numbers of new cells in tissues subjected to irritation, although large numbers of the new cells are supplied by the leucocytes which emigrate from the blood-vessels, as has been explained in the chapter on inflamma- tion. These emigrating leucocytes take no active part in the restoration of tissue, for the multiplying cells of the tissues alone have that power, but the leucocytes may furnish food for the other cells. The power of restora- tion is most marked in the connective-tissue cells, which are called fixed cells, but it is also active in the cells of the periosteum, bone-marrow, endo- thelial lining of the vessels, and the various epithelial structures. It is very feeble in the striped muscle cells, and entirely absent in those of cartilage. Repair of Wounds and Healing by Apposition.—When a wound or "loss of continuity'' has occurred in the tissues, the latter retract at once at the point of division on account of their elasticity, and the gap is more or less filled with blood or serum. If no bacterial or chemical irritant is intro- duced, there are no true inflammatory changes. The divided blood-vessels are occluded by coagulation of the blood in their open ends, and this coagu- lation extends to the nearest patent branch. (Fig. 30.) The capillaries around the seat of injury dilate slightly, the fixed cells of the tissues become active, dividing by karyokinesis and becoming loosened from their beds, while other new cells are furnished sparingly by the leucocytes. The endo-