DISLOCATION OF THE METACARPAL BONES. 581 Fig. 509. one or more bones or amputation may be demanded. If, however, the soft parts have not been extensively injured, the displaced bones should be re- duced by extension and direct pressure, and, after ster- ilizing and dressing the wound with a gauze dressing, the hand and forearm should be immobilized by the application of a palmar splint. Dislocation of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb.—This may take place either backward or forward, and usually results from extreme flexion or extreme extension of the thumb. The symptoms are shortening of the thumb and a prominence below the styloid process of the radius. Treatment.—Reduction is effected by grasping the proximal phalanx of the thumb and pressing the carpal extremity of the meta- carpal bone downward. The tendency to reproduction of the deformity is usually marked, and to prevent this a moulded binders' board splint should be fitted to the thumb and wrist and secured by a narrow roller bandage. Dislocations of the Thumb.—The most com- mon dislocation of the thumb is a displacement, either forward or backward, of its proximal phalanx. Backward Dislocation.—This dislocation usually results from force applied to the phalanx while it is in a state of flexion, causing a displace- ment of the proximal end of the phalanx behind the head of the metacarpal bone. (Fig. 510.) This displacement is one which presents marked deformity (Fig. 511), and its reduction is often attended with great difficulty. The difficulty in reduction seems to arise from the fact that the neck of the metacarpal bone is grasped between the heads of the short flexor of the thumb. Treatment.—This displacement may be reduced Fig. 510. Forward dislocation of the metacarpus. (Agnew.) Fig. 511. Metacarpophalangeal dislocation of the thumb. (Agnew.) Deformity in backward dislocation of the proximal phalanx of the thumb. by fixing the metacarpal bone of the thumb and extending the thumb, and then drawing it downward and suddenly flexing it, by which manipula- tion the displaced bone may slip into place. In other cases, in spite of all manipulations, it may be found impossible to reduce the deformity ; one head of the short flexor should then be divided subcutaneously, and by making the foregoing manipulations the displacement may be reduced. Or