1214 TREATMENT OF EXTRA-UTERINE PREGNANCY. appendicitis, renal colic, or inflammation due to gall-stones. There is no question that many cases of supposed simple hematocele are instances of extra-uterine pregnancy. Treatment.—Successful attempts have been made to kill the foetus by passing a strong faradic current through the sac, or by injecting morphine into the body of the foetus. These methods, however, are uncertain and dangerous, for during the delay necessary to obtain evidence of the death of the foetus the sac may continue to grow, and a fatal rupture may occur. Operation at full term has succeeded in saving the mother, but, as a rule, in such cases it is well to wait until the foetus dies and the parts have somewhat atrophied, so that their vascularity is reduced. If the diagnosis can be made in the early months, however, the sac should be removed by early laparotomy, and in cases of rupture with symptoms of hemorrhage not a moment should be lost. The statistics of operations for this condition have very much improved of late. The operation is begun by a median abdominal incision, the patient being in the Trendelenburg position. If the sac is very adherent or has developed in the broad ligament, it will be advisable to ligate the vessels passing to it from the pelvic wall and from the uterus before attempting to remove it. If the sac is entirely contained in the tube, the tumor may be treated like a pyosalpinx, being shelled out of its adhesions, the pedicle ligated, and the mass cut away. Intraliga- mentous sacs must be treated like ovarian cysts in the same situation. In advanced pregnancies the placental site may bleed freely after their removal, and the hemorrhage should be controlled by packing. Some surgeons advocate packing the wound and leaving the placenta to slough out later. In cases of collapse from loss of blood before the operation, no time should be spent in trying to establish reaction, because restoration of the pulse will only cause additional hemorrhage. The operation should be under- taken at once, and stimulants and saline injections or infusions given by an assistant while the surgeon attends to the laparotomy. In many cases old clots and fresh blood will be found filling the abdomen. These should be removed and the cavity thoroughly irrigated with hot sterile saline solution, the pelvis having been lowered. Drainage is necessary after these operations. The abdominal wound is closed in the usual manner.