FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. 890 more difficult than in the case of fracture, but the cord is less likely to be injured. The deformity and rigidity of a dislocation are sometimes simu- lated by the stiffness of the spine seen in simple sprains, but in such cases the deformity is not so well marked. The prognosis as to life is naturally better in dislocation than in fracture, particularly in the rotary form. In simple dislocation the neck is most frequently affected, and the dorsal region, although seldom injured, suffers more frequently than the lumbar. In anterior bilateral dislocations of the vertebrae the vertebra just below the joint affected will be prominent at the back, and the one above, being displaced forward, will project in front. This can be ascertained in the side, and the muscles are tense, the tips of the spines making a convex curve in that direction. Occasionally one of the spines is felt to be dis- placed laterally towards the convex side, and sometimes a greater promi- nence is perceptible in the pharynx upon the injured side. Prognosis.—In estimating the prognosis in injuries of the spinal column we must distinguish between the effect upon the column itself and that upon the nervous structures. Fractures in the cervical region are almost invari- ably fatal, and the large majority of the patients die within three or four days, while if recovery takes place a permanent paralysis usually remains. In the dorsal region the prognosis is better, and death is generally post- poned for several weeks. In the lumbar region less than one-half of the patients die ; the fatal result occurs later, and the paralysis may entirely disappear if recovery takes place. The bony deformity may be permanent, leaving a rigid spine bent or rotated at the point of injury. The prognosis of the nerve inj ury will depend on the extent of the lesion. If there is ex- tensive paralysis, such as progressive paralysis of the respiratory muscles or inflammation of the bladder, the patient will probably die from its effects. Treatment.—When a severe injury has been sustained which has prob- ably resulted in fracture or dislocation of the spine, the greatest care and gentleness must be exercised in handling the patient, lest fatal injury be in- flicted on the cord. In rare cases the patient may be able to walk and may Unilateral dislocation of cervical vertebra;. (Dr. G. L. Walton.) Fig. 755. cervical region by inserting the finger into the pharynx where the body of the atlas lies on a level with the posterior nares. In these displacements in the neck the head is usually bent for- ward and fixed in this position, but occasionally it is straight, or even bent backward. In rotary dislocations the head and face are rotated towards the shoulder of the side opposite to the injury, and the head is also inclined lat- erally to that side. (Fig. 755.) The chin may be turned to the same side as the injury. The neck is convex on the injured