680 TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS. methods have proved ineffectual, are numerous. Excision of the astragalus and tarsectomy, or excision of a wedge-shaped portion from the outer side of the tarsus, are the most important. Excision of the astragalus yields excel- lent results. It has the disadvantage of shortening the limb, but does not impair the form of the foot or the stability of the arch as much as does resection of the tarsus. Talipes Equino-Varus.—This is the most common congenital form of club-foot, constituting about three-fourths of the congenital cases. It generally affects both feet, but may be confined to one foot. The deformity consists in an elevation of the inner border of the foot, the sole being turned Fig. 621. Equino-varus, posterior and anterior view. towards the median line of the body, the heel being more or less drawn up, and the distal portion of the foot being flexed upon the proximal at the medio-tarsal articulation. (Fig. 621.) In equino-varus the astragalus is tilted forward, and the head and neck of this bone are deflected inward, the scaphoid articulating with the inner side of the head, or even in some cases with the inner malleolus, and the os calcis and cuboid are altered in shape. When the child begins to walk, these changes are all exaggerated, and the deformity increases. The muscles of the legs become atrophied, and callos- ities and bursse form over the points of pressure, which often become in- flamed and cause great pain and disability. There is great impairment of the gait in severe cases, the feet being lifted one over the other in walking. Treatment.—In congenital cases of equino-varus much can be done to correct the deformity by manipulation and systematic straightening of the feet. An intelligent mother or nurse, by persistent manipulation under the direction of the surgeon, is often able to bring the parts into such a position that the deformity will be largely corrected by the time the patient is able to walk, and with the aid of a brace or a walking-shoe the patient will get on very well, and operative treatment may not be required. Another method of treatment consists in the use of the plaster of Paris bandage applied after