DACRYOCYSTITIS. 829 metres from its margin, and its point made to transfix the capsule at the inner margin of the dilated pupil. The capsule is first cut horizontally, then the needle is passed in front of the lower segment of the capsule, which it transfixes near the lower margin of the pupil, and which is divided by an upward incision. Next the needle is passed in front of the upper segment of the capsule, which is divided by a downward incision. Besides the danger of iritis and cyclitis in operations of this character, a certain number of cases develop secondary glaucoma. In this event a small peripheral iridectomy should be performed. DISEASES OF THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. Dacryoadenitis.—Inflammation of the lachrymal gland is a compara- tively rare affection, causing pain, tenderness, and swelling at the upper and outer part of the eyelid, with chemosis of the conjunctiva. If suppu- ration occurs, the pus should be evacuated, by an incision made either through the integument or through the conjunctiva. Tumors of the lachrymal gland produce swelling in the same situation. They may be solid—for example, adenoma, osteoma, and sarcoma—and Fig. 720. Enlarged lachrymal gland of the right eyelid in a man Adenoma of the lachrymal gland in a woman of aged fifty-five years. (After Snell.) twenty-five years. (After Snell.) sometimes cystic. Excision of the growth, together with the gland, is the proper treatment. (Figs. 720, 721.) Dacryocystitis, or an inflammation of the lachrymal sac, usually pro- duces a slight swelling over the region of this structure (mucocele, or lachry- mal tumor), and when pressure is made upon this the contents of the inflamed sac will be expressed through the puncta—either semi-transparent mucus (catarrhal dacryocystitis) or pus (purulent dacryocystitis). Occasionally the surrounding tissues are involved in the inflammation (phlegmonous dacryo- cystitis). Whenever pus or muco-pus is found in the lachrymal sac the surgeon may be reasonably sure that there is stricture of the nasal duct—an obstruction which usually antedates the sac-inflammation. The most common causes of disease of the lachrymal sac and nasal duct are morbid conditions in the nasal chambers and naso-pharynx, inflamma-