473 FRACTURES OF THE METACARPAL BONES. Treatment.—In the treatment of this fracture a Bond splint may be employed, which carries the hand to the ulnar side of the arm and relaxes the internal lateral ligament, and thus favors the restoration of the process to its normal position. After applying the splint, a compress should be ap- plied over the process, and the splint and compress should be held in posi- tion by a roller bandage. Fracture of the Carpal Bones.—The carpal bones, from their shape, being short and irregular and compactly bound together by powerful liga- ments, do not often present examples of simple fracture. Fractures in these bones are readily overlooked. Compound Fractures of the Carpal Bones.—These fractures are of more frequent occurrence, and result from gunshot injuries and from crushing forces applied to the hand or the wrist, and are frequently seen in machinery and railway accidents. Treatment.—The treatment of compound fracture of the carpal bones consists in sterilizing the wound, in removing foreign bodies and loose frag- ments of bone, and if it is found that the bones are not hopelessly crushed, and the parts above and below are not seriously injured, the wound should be dressed with an antiseptic dressing and the arm and hand fixed upon a palmar splint. In many cases of compound fracture of the carpal bones, however, the metacarpal bones and phalanges of the fingers and the tissues of the hand are so extensively involved in the injury that amputation is required. Fractures of the Metacarpal Bones.—Fractures of the metacarpal bones are not common. The metacarpal bones most frequently broken are those of the index, ring, and little fingers. Causes.—These fractures may result from crushing force which does extensive damage to the soft parts and breaks several bones at the same time. The bones are also sometimes broken by force transmitted from the knuckles when blows are struck with the clinched fist. These fractures are rarely seen in children. The usual displacement is projection of the proxi- mal fragment upon the dorsum of the hand. Symptoms.—The symptoms in fracture of the metacarpal bones are pain, preternatural mobility, and crepitus, with a prominence on the back of the hand. It is often difficult to elicit mobility and crepitus in these fractures. Crepitus may be obtained by placing one finger upon the knuckle and another over the supposed seat of fracture, and manipulating the parts. Treatment.—In the treatment of fracture of the metacarpal bones, after reducing the deformity by pressure, a pad should be placed under the palm of the hand, and a well-padded straight splint applied to the palmar surface of the hand and forearm (Fig. 394), extending from the tips of the fingers half-way up the forearm. A compress of lint should be applied over the seat of fracture, and the splint and compress held in position by the turns of a roller bandage. (Fig. 395.) Compound Fractures of the Metacarpal Bones.—In many cases of compound fractures of the metacarpal bones the injury to the tissues of the hand is so extensive that amputation of the hand may be required, although with the modern methods of wound treatment conservative treat-