ACCIDENTS DURING ETHERIZATION. 256 difficulty is experienced. This condition should not be confounded with the very common effort to hold the breath, the latter occurring with the chest fully expanded, the former with the chest empty. Vomiting may occur during etherization, and the vomited matter may ac- cumulate in the pharynx or the mouth and obstruct the breathing, or may enter the larynx or the trachea and cause a like result. Vomiting is more apt to take place if solid food has been taken shortly before the administra- tion of the anaesthetic. If this accident occurs and interferes with the breathing, the jaws should be opened and the head turned to one side, when the vomited matter will usually escape without difficulty. If, however, food has entered the larynx, and is not ejected by coughing, it will be necessary to open the trachea and hold the tracheal wound open, or to introduce a tube and practise artificial respiration. The breathing may also be obstructed by the accumulation of mucus in the pharynx, which is less likely to occur if the head is kept on one side during the administration of the drug ; if it occurs, the head should be turned to one side, the jaws opened, and the mucus removed by small sponges securely fixed to sponge-holders. When muscular relaxation is complete during anaesthesia, the tongue may fall backward and obstruct the breathing; this accident also is less likely to occur if the head is kept on one side during the etherization. If as- phyxia results from this accident, the tongue may be brought forward by placing the fingers on each side beneath the angles of the inferior maxillary bone and pushing the jaw forward, at the same time over-extending the neck by bending the head backward (Fig. 178), or the mouth should be opened and the tongue drawn forward by tongue forceps. Either of these manipulations is usually sufficient to re-establish the respiratory movements. If, however, in any of these forms of mechanical asphyxia respiratory action is not promptly restored, some form of artificial respiration should be resorted to, either Laborde's, the direct, Silvester's, or forced respiration; and of these La- borde's method, by rhythmical traction of the tongue, and forced respira- tion, have yielded the most satisfactory results. Failure of respiration may also occur from paralysis of the respiratory centres or spasm of the respi- ratory muscles; the former may occur from an overdose of the anaesthetic or from intercurrent asphyxia, syncope, or morbid states of the respiratory system. Spasmodic respiratory failure may occur before complete anaesthesia, and it is liable to arise in muscular and emphysematous subjects. Respiratory failure from either of these causes should be promptly treated by artificial respiration and the hypodermic use of strychnine, atropine, or digitalis. After-Effects of Ether.—After complete anaesthesia from ether, nausea and vomiting are very common : they may last for only a short time or may persist for hours. If persistent, the swallowing of a few mouthfuls Pushing the jaw forward.