PARAPHIMOSIS. 1132 Treatment.—To reduce a paraphimosis the parts should be immersed in very hot water for some time; then the surgeon takes the organ, well lubricated, between his hands, placing the forefingers and middle fingers around it behind the constriction and compressing the glans and swollen layer of the prepuce with the thumbs, while at the same time he en- deavors to force the glans back and draw the sheath forward with the inter- locked fingers. Or the organ may be seized Fig. 855. in one hand and the swollen parts compressed between the fingers and the thumb of the other, forcing them at the same time backward. (Fig. 855.) All attempts at reduction should be preceded by concentric pressure or the application of an elastic bandage, in order to reduce the oedema as far as possible. Multiple scarification may be employed with the same end in view. The reduction may be so painful that general anaesthesia will be necessary. If the operator can pass his thumb-nail under the constricting band he can usually succeed in reducing the displacement by lifting the band and sliding it forward over the nail. The loop of a hair-pin or a bent wire will also be found Reduction of paraphimosis. (Agnew.) a very useful instrument, as it can be inserted under a very tight band, and then by sweeping it around the glans the foreskin may be drawn forward over it in a similar fashion. If the paraphimosis proves irreducible, an incision should be made in the median line of the dorsum over the deepest of the transverse fissures, and carried down until the constricting band is divided. This can easily be done under cocaine anaesthesia, but it is wise to make a long in- cision and not attempt to divide the band with the point of the knife, for in- fection is less likely to occur if the parts are thoroughly exposed. In many cases where the extent of the strangulation is not sufficient to cause slough- ing the parts become habituated to the impeded circulation, the oedematous folds become filled with newly formed connective tissue, and a permanent enlargement of the end of the organ is produced, which resembles elephan- tiasis. The treatment of this condition consists in multiple scarification, hot baths, massage, and the elastic bandage. If these measures fail, the hypertrophied tissue may be cut away. Injuries.—The penis is rarely injured by accidents, although contusions, and lacerated, incised, and gunshot wounds, occasionally occur. These in- juries are accompanied by serious hemorrhage if open, or by the formation of a large haematoma if the external wound is small or absent. Sloughing seldom occurs, and even if the entire skin of the penis and the scrotum be torn away, as occasionally results from the bite of a horse or when the organs are caught with the clothing in machinery, the skin is restored with astonish- ing rapidity. (Fig. 856.) These injuries are often complicated with injuries to the urethra and extravasation of urine, and this is their principal danger. If a plastic operation is necessary to provide a covering for the penis, it may