5 INFECTION BY BACTERIA. germs by shaking before it hardens. The culture media must be kept from all contact with the air by using cotton plugs, or some sort of cover, aud by the greatest precautions during the necessary exposure in sowing. The growth of bacteria is very rapid, one individual being capable of producing over sixteeu million within twenty-four hours (Cohn). The different varieties of bacteria are recognized by the way in which they grow in the media, by the shape and color of the colonies (as the small masses which they form are called), and by their power of liquefying the gelatin and other chemical reactions. A pure culture is one in which only a single species of bacteria exists. It can be obtained by making a very long series of bouillon-cultures, but far better by the method introduced by Koch of using solid media for cultures. If a plate-culture is made, as the needle is lightly drawn over the surface of the gelatin it spreads the mate- rial to be " sown'' all along the line. The various bacteria will be present in varying quantity at different parts of the line, and in a few hours the different colonies can be recognized with a magnifying-glass. The one which is most like the particular germ sought is then touched with the needle, and another plate sown in the same manner with this colony. This second culture will naturally contain a larger proportion of the bacteria desired, and after several repetitions of this process a plate will finally be obtained which will contain only the one species desired. Anaerobic germs are cultivated in the deeper parts of the solid media, or by covering the surface with a thin sheet of mica, which is sealed to the tube with paraffin, or by maintaining an atmosphere of pure hydrogen gas around the culture. Inoculation.—Another method of studying bacteria is by inoculation in animals. Either the original material or a pure culture obtained from it is introduced. The material inoculated may be injected under the skin or into a vein, or inserted into the anterior chamber of the eye, or into the peritoneal cavity, according to the effect it is desired to produce or the germ to be studied. If the lesions produced are the same as those of the original disease, we obtain a proof in this manner of the causal relation between the germ and the disease. The effects of the toxines can also be studied by these means. Infection.—Bacteria gain admission to the living tissues of animals under natural conditions by penetrating any of the mucous membranes which they can reach or by entering open wounds. Some of the pyogenic varieties can be made to infect the sebaceous ducts and the hair-follicles by being vigorously rubbed into the skin, or even by being kept long in con- tact with it in a moist dressing ; but this mode of infection is probably rare in nature. It may be said in general that an intact epidermis is almost a complete protection against infection, and that an intact mucous membrane is a good protection. This difference in vulnerability between the mucous membranes and the skin is important, and is probably due to the cornifica- tion of the epidermal cells and to their numerous layers, as well as to the protection afforded by the thick corium, the single layer of soft mucous cells being much more easily penetrated and having no strong basement membrane beneath it.