139 TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM. complication of wounds or operations at the present time, when rigid asep- tic methods are adopted. It is well for the surgeon to bear in mind the pos- sibility of the development of secondary shock after serious operations and injuries, and to guard against its occurrence as far as possible. The admin- istration of carbonate of ammonium in five-grain doses, or of thirty-drop doses of aromatic spirit of ammonia, every two hours for the first twenty- four hours, and then at less frequent intervals, is strongly recommended' by Ashhurst, and we have employed it with advantage. TRAUMATIC DELIRIUM. This affection may follow injuries or operations, and may be developed after the reaction from shock has been well established. Hunt holds that it is due to ansemia or functional disturbance of the cortical gray matter of the brain, or to inflammation of the cortex or meninges. It may be devel- oped after severe oj>erations or injuries, or after excessive hemorrhage, and severe pain itself accompanying an injury may give rise to this condition of mental aberration. Symptoms.—The symptoms of traumatic delirium usually appear from twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the reception of the injury ; the patient develops a slight elevation of temperature, acceleration of the pulse, constant muscular action, sleeplessness, and wandering delirium, and usually becomes very loquacious, talking incessantly upon many subjects, but constantly re- curring to those which occupied his mind immediately before the injury. We have seen a school-boy, who had received on his way from school a com- pound fracture of the skull and of the bones of the leg, develop in a few hours an incessaut chattering delirium, repeating the multiplication-table for thirty-six hours, apparently without a minute's intermission. In addition to the delirium, patients often seem bent upon removing their dressings, and will attempt to move fractured members unless carefully watched. Iu hospital practice, where the majority of the patients are addicted to the use of alcohol, it is sometimes a matter of difficulty to say whether the case is one of traumatic delirium or delirium tremens. In delirium tremens treniu- lousuess of the hands and lips is a marked symptom ; in traumatic delirium this symptom is not observed. Death may result from traumatic delirium, and the fatal termination of these cases seems to be due to exhaustion. Treatment.—In the treatment of this affection it must be borne in mind that the condition is one of exhaustion, and stimulants are generally indicated. The patient should be kept, if possible, in a room free from any excitement or noise, an ice-bag should be applied to the head, concen- trated nourishment should be administered at regular intervals, and the administration of whiskey should be guided by the condition of the pulse. The drug which seems to be followed by the best effects in this condition is opium ; this should be administered freely. If, however, this is not used, a combination of chloral hydrate, five grains, and bromide of potassium, ten grains, given every two or three hours, will often quiet the patient and produce sleep. After a few hours' quiet sleep has been obtaiued, when the patient awakes he is usually free from delirium.