GONORRHOEA!, ARTHRITIS. 602 specific organisms in the blood, or by their ptomaines. In infective arthritis the joints may become painful, red, and swollen, and yet suppuration may not take place. In other cases suppuration may occur in the joint, and the condi- tions presented will then be very similar to those observed in septic arthritis. Treatment.—In the early stages of this form of arthritis, if there is no evidence of suppuration, lead water and laudanum should be applied over the surface of the joint, or it may be enveloped in cotton wadding, and a bandage applied firmly over this dressing, the part being fixed by the appli- cation of a splint. Under this treatment in many cases resolution takes place in a few days, and recovery follows with a good functional result. If, however, suppuration occurs, as shown by swelling, redness, and oedema of the overlying skin, with distention of the joint and the occurrence of a chill, the joint should be freely opened and irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, drainage-tubes or gauze strips being introduced, and after applying a copious antiseptic dressing it should be fixed by a splint. Gonorrhceal Arthritis—Gonorrhoeal Septicaemia.—During the course of acute or chronic gonorrhoea there may develop a synovitis or an arthritis, with effusion into the joints, due to infection by the gonococcus of Neisser, or to a mixed infection from gonorrhoeal and pyogenic organisms. Men are more apt to suffer from the affection than women, and the joints most commonly involved are the knee and the ankle ; occasionally the inter- vertebral, sterno-clavicular, temporo-maxillary, and sacro-iliac articulations are affected. The presence of gonococci cannot always be demonstrated, and in such cases the infection may possibly be due to their ptomaines. Symptoms.—In acute cases one or more joints become painful and swollen, the skin becomes red, and the joint assumes the position which relieves intra-articular tension. There are usually present more or less elevation of temperature and acceleration of the pulse. In subacute or chronic cases the joint becomes swollen and distended with fluid, and pain is not a prominent symptom. Suppuration rarely occurs, and when this accident takes place it is probably due to a mixed infection from pyogenic and specific organisms. The inflammation usually terminates in resolution, and is apt to result in more or less ankylosis of the joint from organization of the articular and periarticular exudations. In subacute or chronic cases the effusion in the joint is absorbed very slowly, weeks or months often being required. Treatment.—Attention should be given to the cure of the coexisting urethritis. While there is any evidence of inflammatory symptoms the joint should be immobilized by the use of a splint or a plaster of Paris dressing. If pain is a prominent symptom, a lotion of lead water and lauda- num may be applied with good results; the use of an ointment of bella- donna and mercury, equal parts, or of ichthyol is often satisfactory. As soon as the pain has disappeared, gentle passive motion should be prac- tised, but if this is followed by pain and swelling it is an evidence that im- mobilization of the joint should again be resorted to, and passive motion and massage should be postponed for a time. In chronic cases with large effusion into the joint, aspiration and irrigation with a five per cent, car- bolic solution, with full antiseptic precautions, may be practised, and fol- lowed by massage. If ankylosis results, the adhesions may be broken up