1189 TREATMENT OF DISPLACEMENTS OF THE UTERUS. downward on the cervix with a tenaculum at the same time, the patient being placed in a position to facilitate the movements. Thus, in a retro- flexion or retroversion the patient is to be placed in the knee-chest position with the hips elevated. (Fig. 909.) Instruments have been invented for this purpose, but they are not considered safe. The uterine sound may be used during reduc- tion, but only to hold the organ in position after it has been re- placed as far as possible by the finger, for perforation of the uter- ine wall might easily occur if the pressure necessary to move the organ were to be exercised with that instrument. When the ab- dominal wall is lax the fundus of the uterus can often be reached by the palpating hand outside and carried into its proper position. If pregnancy takes place in an organ out of position very severe symptoms may result, and miscarriages from this cause are frequent, but this may be prevented if the condition is recognized early enough to allow of replacement of the organ before its large size has fixed it in its faulty position. If adhesions prevent the re- position of the uterus, they may be stretched by constant and persistent attempts at replacement carried out daily or weekly for a long period, their absorption being hastened by the daily use of the hot douche and other medical measures. What is gained each day may be maintained by pack- ing the vagina with cotton balls so placed as to hold the uterus in position. Pessaries.—When the uterus has been replaced and shows a tendency to return to its malposition, an instrument known as a pessaiy may be in- serted in the vagina in order to retain the organ in its proper place. In cases of anteversion or anteflexion a pessary can accomplish but little, as it must then take its bearings upon the soft part of the vaginal wall, but in backward displacements a properly placed pessary curves forward and the lower end rests against the pubic arch in such a way as to give a toler- ably firm support. Some pessaries act only by their size, forming a large mass on which the uterus rests without giving definite support in any one di- rection. The Hodge pessary of hard rubber is the most generally useful, and when heated can be bent to any required shape. Pessaries must be made to fit the parts exactly. They should not cause pain when introduced, and there should be enough space around them to permit the finger to be passed between the pessary and the vaginal wall on all sides. A daily vaginal douche is necessary when a pessary is worn, and the patient should always be instructed how to remove it in case of accident. The introduction of the instrument, however, should always be made by the physician. To in- troduce the Hodge pessary, place the patient upon the side, insert the broad end of the instrument in the mtroitus, and press back the perineum with it Fig. 909. Reduction of retroversion with patient in knee-chest position. (Madden.)