SARCOMA OF THE BREAST. 905 common in the intraeanalicular form. There is no metastasis to the glands or elsewhere, and the general health is not affected by these tumors. As nearly all the benign mammary tumors are fibro-adenoniata, the chief point in the diagnosis is the distinction between them and the ordinary cysts and sarcoma, of both of which we shall speak later. Treatment.—The only treatment possible is extirpation. When the tumor is small it may be enucleated from the breast, the gland itself being left untouched, and this is easy in the majority of cases on account of the en- capsulation. But if the tumor is large, the entire breast should be removed. If the tumor is small, operation is not absolutely necessary, for we may be dealing with one of those tumors which will remain stationary or increase very slowly ; but a full explanation should be made, and the patient should assume the responsibility, for many tumors that have remained stationary for years finally undergo sarcomatoias degeneration. The surgeon should follow the rule to remove all tumors, even when confident of their benign character, as a part of the prophylactic treatment of cancer. Sarcoma. —Pathology.—Sarcoma occurs in the breast in all its dif- ferent varieties, about two-thirds of the cases being spindle-cell and one- quarter of them round-cell sarcoma, the least frequent being the giant-cell form. It is sometimes quite well encapsulated. Cystic degeneration is com- mon. Sarcoma is characterized here, as elsewhere, by its rapid growth, but it is occasionally very slow, and in many cases tumors which had remained stationary for years have proved to be sarcoma. There are also cases in which a tumor has remained stationary for years and then suddenly become active and examination has shown it to be a sarcoma. Many of these cases are probably instances of malignant degeneration of a tumor originally a fibroma. Clinical History.—Sarcoma generally begins at from thirty to fifty years of age, the cystic form rather earlier than the solid. Sarcoma of the breast usually appears as a tumor near the nipple, the size of a walnut or an egg when first noticed, soft and semi-fluctuating, or hard and often nodular, or varying in consistency in different parts. The skin is unaltered over it and not adherent to the tumor, which appears more or less movable in the breast, and entirely so on the tissues beneath. Pain may be present, espe- cially if the tumor increases rapidly in size, but it is more frequently absent. There may be a bloody discharge from the nipple. The axillary glands are enlarged and involved in nearly one-sixth of the cases (Poulsen), but they do not feel so hard as in the epithelial growths. The tumor usually grows rapidly, reaching the size of the fist in a year or less. It may remain limited to that part of the breast in which it has originated until it attains a considerable size. The nipple is not retracted, although it may sometimes appear to be so because it is surrounded by projecting masses of the tumor. There is occasionally a discharge of bloody serum from the nipple. The skin over the tumor is tense, very seldom adherent, and the veins are dilated, but the dilatation often spoken of as pathognomonic of sarcoma is due to the large size of the growths, and is found with large benign tumors as well. The skin is seldom directly invaded (in ten per cent., according to Gross), but it may give way to the pressure from within, especially in