236 FROST-BITE. swollen, and are the seat of intense itching and burning, and in serious cases blebs may form upon the surface. The sudden application of heat after exposure to cold is apt to cause rapid development of the affection. A person who has once suffered from chilblain is liable to suffer from a recurrence of the affection upon exposure to even a moderate degree of cold. Treatment.—The prophylactic treatment of chilblain consists in bring- ing about very gradual reaction: to accomplish this, the part which has been exposed to cold should be rubbed with snow, or placed in cold water, or have a cold water dressing applied. The part, after reaction has been established, should be frequently painted over with a solution of nitrate of silver (gr. v to 15 i) and covered with raw cotton. A very satisfactory ap- plication in these cases is an ointment of ichthyol (ichthyol, gij ; lanolin, gvi) ; this shoidd be spread upon lint and laid over the parts. If blebs form, they should be punctured to allow the fluid to escape. The itching which often remains after chilblain may be relieved by rubbing the parts with camphorated soap liniment or with compound resin cerate. Frost-Bite.—This condition represents the more serious effects result- ing from sudden or prolonged exposure to cold, and is caused by the abstrac- tion of heat. The parts of the body most frequently found to suffer from this affection are the feet, hands, nose, and ears, although the limbs may also be involved. The parts may be so completely frozen that upon thawing they are found to be absolutely dead, or their vitality may be so much im- paired by the cold that when reaction takes place inflammation and strangu- lation of the tissues occur, producing gangrene. Symptoms.—The part becomes numb and sensation is gradually lost, and it presents a white, blanched appearance; if completely frozen, in a short time discoloration and swelling follow the primary blanching. If the part is not completely frozen, and reaction is rapid, it becomes pur- ple, swollen, and painful, and blebs may form; Sensation is lost, the skin becomes mottled, and the tissues rapidly pass into a condition of moist gangrene. Treatment.—In all cases of severe frost-bite, even when the part appears to be hopelessly frozen, treatment should be instituted to bring about moderate reaction. The part should be placed in cold water or covered with cloths wrung out of cold water, or cold water irrigation should be employed. If it has been completely frozen, gangrene soon manifests itself, but if the tissues are only partially devitalized by the exposure to cold, and if the subsequent inflammatory reaction can be gradually brought about, gangrene may be averted or may develop to but a limited extent. The cold water dressings should be continued for some time after reaction has taken place, and if gangrene has occurred, they should not be discontinued until it is evident that the gangrene is limited by lines of demarcation and separation. When the gangrenous tissue has separated, the ulcer remaining should be treated on general principles; and in the case of gangrene of the extremities following frost-bite, complete or partial amputation of the part should be practised as soon as the lines of demarcation and separation are well established.