888 CHAPTER XXXII. SURGERY OP THE BACK. VERTEBRAE AKD SPEsTAL CORD. INJUKIES OF THE BACK. Incised and contused wounds of the back do not differ from those in other situations, except that a very severe contusion may affect the spinal cord or the kidneys. Sprains of the muscles of the back can be distin- guished from the deeper sprains involving the spinal column by the lesser severity of the symptoms. The sprained muscle is generally tender to the touch, and sometimes is more or less contracted, although more frequently the surrounding muscles are in a state of spasm in order to avoid any motion of the injured one. Eest, massage, and counter-irritation are the best methods of treatment. A broad strapping of plaster similar to that for fracture of the ribs is also useful. FKACTUKE AND DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. In the vertebral column fracture and dislocation are almost invariably combined, the interlocking of the bony processes making it difficult for a dislocation to occur without fracture, and the dislocation is usually the more important part of the injury. These injuries of the spine are rarely met with in children. The accident may occur in any part of the column, but is most frequent in the cervical and dorsal regions, and especially affects the fifth and sixth cervical, the second dorsal, and the first lumbar vertebra?. The fracture most frequently consists in a crushing of the bodies of the ver- tebrae or fracture of the articular processes. Fracture of the spinous processes or the laminae alone is very rare. The displacement in fracture-dislocations may be forward, backward, or rotary. The injuries are caused by falls upon the head or on the buttocks, or a fall across a beam so that the spine is bent violently backward. Symptoms.—As in fractures of the skull the most important symp- toms are due to the brain lesion, so in these injuries the chief symptoms depend on the damage inflicted on the spinal cord and the nerve-roots. The local symptoms found in the spine itself are : (1) Deformity, which may show itself by the backward projection of the spines if the bodies are crushed, and by a lateral displacement of the tips of the spines if the injury has been upon one side or if a rotary dislocation exists. The deformity may not be evident until the patient is able to stand. (2) Altered Mobility. The mobility of the spine may be impaired, and the rigidity may be asso- ciated with curvature or rotation. Abnormal mobility at the point of the