1134 BALANO-POSTHITIS. difficult. Extraordinary cases are on record in which a cord tied tightly about the organ has been left in place for years, and has even cut its way across the urethra and become entirely buried in the tissues of the organ, which have healed over it. Treatment.—The oedema should be treated by an elastic bandage, or by multiple punctures or scarification under aseptic precautions. A ring can sometimes be removed by winding a narrow bandage tightly over the distal part, then passing the end of the bandage under the ring and pulling upon it, thus forcing the ring off as the bandage unwinds. If this fails, a long incision should be made, giving free access, so that the surgeon may see distinctly what he is doing, and the string or ring divided with scissors, cutting pliers, or file. It may be necessary to call in a mechanic to complete the work where heavy metal objects have been employed. Inflammations.—Cellulitis and erysipelas are observed in the penis, but usually as the result of urinary extravasation or venereal infec- tion, and they do not differ from those inflammations in general, except that very early incision is necessary in order to prevent sloughing of the sheath. Balano-posthitis.—Posthitis is an inflammation of the prepuce usually confined to its internal lining, and balanitis is a superficial inflammation of the glans. As a rule, these two structures are attacked at the same time by inflammation, and the common cause is the retention of urine, smegma, or pus by the foreskin. The inflammation may be merely hyperemia with increased secretion, or it may be suppurative or ulcerative. Lupus and diphtheritic inflammations have also been described. Ulceration of the glans and prepuce is most frequently of venereal origin, but it may be due merely to the intense infection caused by the retained secretion. Herpetic vesicles, similar to those so frequently seen about the mouth, also attack the glans, and are exceedingly difficult to cure, as relapse is the rule. They are small vesicles, about the size of a pin's head, filled with clear serum, which becomes cloudy later, and on bursting they leave a superficial ulcer with a white base and a pink inflammatory areola. Treatment.—If the foreskin can be retracted, balano-posthitis can easily be cured in most cases by due attention to cleanliness, by carefully drawing back the foreskin, cleansing the parts without rubbing, and laying small pieces of dry gauze between the glans and the prepuce, drawing the latter down over it to hold the gauze in place. The patient should wear a pair of swimming-tights so that the organ shall be held upward against the abdomen. Bandages are difficult to retain upon the penis, and bags for holding the dressings in place are apt to become foul, as they are not changed frequently enough. A fine dry powder, such as bismuth, calomel, or aristol, may be sprinkled over the parts in addition to the dry gauze. In some cases dry dressings are not successful, and recourse must be had to wet dressings, such as weak solutions of chloride of zinc or aluminum acetate, or a mixture of balsam of Peru and castor oil. In other cases the ointments answer best—those of boric acid, zinc oxide, and ichthyol, all about ten per cent. When the foreskin cannot be retracted, the cavity beneath it must be kept clean by irrigation with a syringe with a long