844 CHAPTER XXX. SURGERY OP THE AIR-PASSAGES. Wounds and Injuries of the Larynx and Trachea.—The larynx or trachea may suffer from con tusion or f racture of the cartilages, with lacer- ation of the mucous membrane, from blows, or from falls upon the neck. In- cised and lacerated wounds of the larynx or trachea may result from sharp or blunt instruments applied to the neck, as in stab or cut-throat wounds, or from sharp or irregular foreign bodies which find their way into the larynx ; gunshot wounds of the larynx or trachea are also occasionally observed. Out-throat wounds are those most commonly met with, and in these the larynx, the trachea, or the crico-thyroid or thyro-hyoid membrane may be incised. The would-be suicide usually makes a transverse incision over the most prominent part of the larynx, and often opens the thyro- hyoid space and injures the epiglottis, and as soon as air escapes from the wound he desists, so that the great vessels of the neck seldom are injured ; the superficial jugular veins are occasionally divided in the incision. Symptoms.—In contusions and lacerations of the larynx or trachea the most prominent symptom is dyspnoea, which results from swelling and cedema of the mucous membrane, or from displacement of the lacerated cartilages; expectoration of blood and of frothy, blood-stained mucus may also be observed if the mucous membrane has been ruptured. In stab, lacer- ated, or cut-throat wounds involving the larynx or trachea, the escape of bloody, frothy mucus from the wound, dyspnoea, dysphagia, and retraction of the ends of the divided tube, if the division has been a complete one, are the most prominent symptoms. The symptoms following wounds of the larynx or trachea from foreign bodies are the expectoration of mucus and blood, and more or less dyspnoea. The immediate danger in all cases of injury or wound of these organs is swelling or oedema of the mucous mem- brane, which may produce death by suffocation unless relieved by operative treatment. Death from hemorrhage is comparatively rare, but may occur; but the escape of a moderate amount of blood into the lungs may later give rise to a septic pneumonia which may prove fatal. Treatment.—Contusions and lacerations of the trachea and larynx, if there is no marked displacement of the fragments nor dyspnoea, should be treated by rest in bed and the application of an ice-bag to the neck over the injured organ, the patient being carefully watched. If the breathing is obstructed, an intubation-tube should be used, or the trachea opened and a tracheotomy-tube introduced. In incised, lacerated, or cut-throat wounds the hemorrhage should be controlled, and the edges of the incision in the walls of the larynx or trachea should be brought together with catgut sutures. If the epiglottis has been partly detached, it should be carefully approxi-