STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 1073 Fig. 830. low, involving the whole length of the canal, unless it be avoided by sys- tematic dilatation by the passage of sounds. Stricture.—Pathological Anatomy.—Stricture of the urethra is the consequence of destruction of the mucous membrane by injury or gonor- rheal or chancroidal ulceration, or of cicatricial con- traction following inflammation in the cellular tissue around it. The lesion of stricture consists in the de- posit of cicatricial tissue either in the mucous mem- brane itself or around it, but most frequently in the latter situation. (Fig. 830.) This cicatricial tissue in its early stages is soft, and microscopic examination shows fibrous tissue with an abundance of round-cell infiltration. The number of round cells diminishes later and the fibrous tissue grows very dense and hard. The cicatricial tissue may project into the urethra, but the reduction in the calibre of the canal is principally caused by the contraction of this tissue. In estimating the degree of contraction it should be borne in mind that the urethral canal is not of the same diameter from one end to the other, and that at the meatus it is naturally much smaller. (Fig. 831.) The narrowing at the meatus and the widening at the bulb are uni- versal, but the other variations in calibre differ with the individual. The calibre of the urethra may be diminished simply by a thickening of the mucous mem- brane, causing it to project into the centre of the canal or to lose its distensibility. A tumor may grow upon the surface of the mucous membrane and project into the urethra, or a tumor or a collection of pus or blood in the submucous tissue may lift the mucous membrane and thus reduce the calibre of the canal. These obstructions ai'e not called stricture, that name being limited to cicatricial contractions, and spasmodic stricture should also be excluded, for it is a spasm of the muscle surround- ing the urethra. A narrowing of the canal by stricture may involve its entire length or may be limited to a very small part of the canal, and in some cases there may be a narrow band winding spirally or obliquely around the wall of the urethra. The changes are usually most marked on the floor of the urethra, and the orifice of the obstructed portion is therefore near the upper wall. Complete closure of the urethra by a stricture is rare, and is found only when fistulous tracts behind it allow of the escape of the urine. The pros- tatic urethra is exempt from cicatricial stricture, although severe spasm of the sphincter of the bladder may simulate it. Strictures are most fre- quent at the bulbo-membranous junction, and next in order stands the an- terior portion within two inches of the meatus. While, as a rule, there is more or less infiltration and narrowing of the entire urethra with tighter strictures located at various points, in some cases the intermediate portions are healthy. Strictures admitting a sound over 20 French in size have been 68 Section through stricture of the urethra, showing mass of connective tissue in the corpus spongiosum and dilatation of the pos- terior urethra. (Agnew.)