446 FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE IN CHILDREN. and at this time the dressings may be removed and the patient allowed to carry the arm in a sling for several weeks, but he should not undertake any work requiring forcible movements of the arm until eight or ten weeks have elapsed from the receipt of the injury. Sayre's Dressing.—This dressing consists of two strips of adhesive plaster three and a half inches wide and two yards in length. The end of the first strip is made into a loop and secured by stitches, the loop is Fig. 346. Compresses and adhesive strips applied in Modified Velpeau dressing for fracture of the dressing for fracture of the clavicle. clavicle. passed around the arm just below the axillary margin, and the arm is then drawn downward and backward until the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major muscle is put sufficiently on the stretch to overcome the action of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, and in this way draws the sternal fragment of the clavicle down to its place. The strip of plaster is then carried com- pletely around the body and fastened or stitched to itself on the back. Be- fore the elbow is secured by the second strip of plaster it should be pressed well forward and inward, and the forearm should rest across the anterior surface of the chest. The second strip is next applied, commencing upon the front of the shoulder of the sound side. From this point it is carried over the top of the shoulder diagonally across the back, under the elbow, and across the front of the chest to the point of starting, where it is secured. (Fig. 348.) A slit should be made in this strip to receive the projecting point of the olecranon process. Fracture of the Clavicle in Children.—This fracture is very common in infants and children, and, as a rule, the deformity following is much less than that which is observed in adults. The fracture of the bone may be par- tial or complete, and the line of fracture transverse or oblique. In partial fractures where the deformity consists in bending of the bone, it may be