630 TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE ELBOW. in the body, and is most common in young adults. In this disease there is often very extensive destruction of the head of the bone, swelling of the soft parts is not marked, as in ordinary cases of tuberculous arthritis, and the occurrence of abscess is rare. The most prominent symptoms are persistent and severe pain, muscular wasting, and loss of function of the joint. It is not likely to be confounded with monarticular rheumatism, which is generally observed in subjects more advanced in age. Treatment.—In this variety of arthritis counter-irritation and early fixation of the joint are often followed by good results. If these means are carefully employed operative treatment is seldom required. DISEASES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. This joint may be the seat of acute synovitis or of tuberculous synovitis or arthritis. Acute Synovitis.—This affection of the elbow usually follows trauma- tisms or exposure to cold, and presents the following symptoms: stiffness, and pain upon motion, soon followed by more or less effusion, most marked posteriorly on each side of the olecranon ; the limb is held in a semi-flexed and semi-pronated position. Treatment.—This consists in fixation by the use of a splint and in the application of evaporating lotions. The acute symptoms usually subside rapidly under this treatment, and as soon as the swelling aud tenderness have disappeared, passive motion and massage should be practised to restore the function of the joint. Tuberculous Arthritis.—The elbow is much more frequently affected with tuberculous disease than any other of the joints of the upper extremity. The disease is often seen in childhood, and is usually of synovial origin, but may be osteal, the seat then being commonly in the lower articular extremity or in the lower epiphysis of the humerus. Symptoms.—The disease usually develops slowly; there are stiffness and flexion of the joint; pain may not be a prominent symptom, except when the bone is the starting-point, when it can be developed by pressure upon the lower end of the humerus. Effusion may occur, and is most marked at the posterior surface of the joint on each side of the olecranon. As the disease progresses the swell- ing becomes greater and the muscles atrophy, causing the joint to present a spindle-shaped appearance; the flexion increases, and the forearm is held in a position of pronation or semi-pronation. (Fig. 555.) If caseation occurs, abscesses are apt to point upon the posterior and lateral aspects of the joint. Treatment.—As soon as the disease is recognized the joint should be fixed by the application of a splint or a plaster of Paris bandage. The flexed position, at an angle of ninety degrees or less, is that which is most comfortable to the patient, and also that in which the arm will be most Tuberculous arthritis of the elbow.