TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 364 fact, coupled with the advantage of having but one anastomosis to develop, has led some authors to prefer ligation as near the sac as possible. Brasdor's operation consists in ligating the artery below the sac (Fig. 274, C), thus entirely arresting the circulation through it, and bringing about a cure by occluding the vessel and causing the formation of a clot extending backward from the ligature to the sac, which gradually contracts and be- comes obliterated. This method, however, may fail, owing to a partial filling of the sac with a coaguluua, when the aneurism may increase in size, or sloughing of the sac may occur. Brasdor's method of ligation is appli- cable to aneurisms at the beginning of the carotid and subclavian arteries. Wardrop's method of ligation is also a method of distal ligature, but consists in applying a ligature to one or more of the main branches below the sac (Fig. 274, D), not completely stopping the circulation through the sac, and causes a cure of the aneurism by diverting the current of blood from the weaker portions of the vessel, or by an extension backward of the clot from the seat of the ligature. In this method a cure may result without complete obliteration of the circulation through the sac. Wardrop's method has been practised with success in aneurisms at the root of the neck in- volving the innominate artery and the arch of the aorta. Complications.—Return of Pulsation.—This may be temporary, dis- appearing after a few days ; its persistence may indicate an imperfect occlusion of the vessel by the ligature at the time of operation, or subsequent slipping of the knot, especially if catgut has been employed, and this complication should be treated by the reapplication of the ligature at the same or a lower point. It may also occur as the result of a too free anastomosis around the ligature, which permits a large and rapid current of blood to flow through the sac, interfering with the deposit of a laminated clot and favoring disinte- gration of that already formed. If pulsation persists, elevation of the limb and compression of the artery and sac may be tried, or, in the case of poplit- eal aneurism, flexion may be useful. If these fail, ligation nearer the sac is indicated, or excision. In cases where the aneurism remains full of liquid blood, but without pulsation, excision of the sac gives very good results. Secondary hemorrhage at the point of ligation was formerly a frequent cause of death, and arose from suppuration in combination with nonabsorb- able ligatures, but is now an infrequent accident. Suppuration or sloughing of the sac is a very dangerous complication, and may be due to injury of the sac or infection of the wound during the operation, to failure of development of the collateral circulation around the sac, to coagulation en masse, or to lack of supporting tissue around the sac, as in the axilla and the groin. An attempt may be made to save the limb by waiting until external rupture is threatened, and then incising, first apply- ing a tourniquet if the aneurism still pidsates, turning out the clots, ligating the vessel above and below if it is still pervious, tying all bleeding points, and allowing the wound to granulate, careful watch being kept for the occur- rence of secondary hemorrhage. If this fails, and uncontrollable hemorrhage sets in. amputation, if possible, should be performed. Gangrene.—This dangerous complication generally supervenes from the third to the tenth day, is especially frequent in the lower extremity, and is