324 LOCAL TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE. TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE. Constitutional Treatment of Hemorrhage—The first indication in the constitutional treatment of hemorrhage is to put the injured part at rest and secure for the patient complete rest in the horizontal position, which lessens cardiac action, diminishes arterial tension, and prevents cardiac exhaustion and displacement of blood-clots which have formed in the vessel at the seat of injury. If hemorrhage is taking place, this should be controlled before attempts are made to bring about reaction. After serious bleeding the temperature is usually subnormal, and the patient should therefore be surrounded by hot cans or water-bottles and covered with woollen blankets, to maintain the temperature and bring about reaction. Care should be taken that the patient is not so heavily covered that his respiratory movements are inter- fered with; while he is warmly covered, he should be supplied with an abundance of fresh air. The patient should be given strychnine hypoder- mically, gr. g^, or ether, n\, x to xx, and, as soon as he is able to swallow, car- diac stimulants, such as tincture of digitalis, carbonate of ammonium, gr. v, whiskey, or brandy, should be administered. The head should be placed low, to prevent syncope, and in extreme cases, where the tendency to cere- bral anaemia is marked, it should be placed lower than the body and the procedure known as auto-transfusion may be practised—the limbs being raised and firmly bandaged, to force the blood from them and thus increase the supply of blood to the brain. In cases in which a large amount of blood has been lost and the constitutional symptoms of hemorrhage are marked, transfusion of blood, or, better, the intravenous injection or infusion of saline solution, should be practised. Large enemata of hot water may also be given with good results. Stimulants should be used cautiously if the bleeding has not been controlled by ligature of the wounded vessels, as otherwise their use may cause a renewal of the hemorrhage. The patient should also be given hot water, milk, or concentrated beef extracts or beef tea. Local Treatment of Hemorrhage.—This consists in the employ- ment of various measures which either temporarily or permanently control the bleeding, and the procedure adopted in special cases depends upon the size of the vessel from which the bleeding comes, the origin of the bleed- ing, whether arterial, venous, or capillary, and whether it be primary or secondary. Temporary Control of Arterial Hemorrhage.—Position.—In arte- rial hemorrhage from wounds of the extremities elevation of the part will be found to diminish materially or arrest the bleeding ; in hemorrhage from wounds of the hand, forearm, foot, and leg, forcible flexion of the forearm on the arm, or of the leg on the thigh, will very much diminish the force of the blood-current. Compression.—This may be employed by pressure applied directly to the bleeding vessel in the wound, or to the main artery between the wound and the centre of circulation ; compression may be made by the fingers, digital compression, by tourniquets, by elastic constriction, or by hemostatic forceps.