1171 OPERATIONS FOR LACERATED PERINEUM. a couple of deep external sutures to draw the torn edges of the latter together. The advantages of the buried suture are that there are no sutures to be removed, no stitch-holes to carry infection to deeper parts, Fig. 884. and no spaces left where possible blood-clot can collect. The dis- advantages are the possibility of strangulation if the sutures are drawn too tight, and the fact that if infection should take place the entire wound must be opened in order to relieve the suppurating point. The rectocele is sufficiently closed in by the perineal opera- tion, but if a marked cystocele is present it will require a separate denudation and suture. An oval space should be pared on the most prominent part of the prolapse, and its edges united in the median line in the long axis of the vagina by buried catgut or ordinary su- tures. Or a circular denudation may be made (Fig. 884), as sug- gested by Stoltz, and then folded in by a purse-string suture passed around its edges. A continuous suture is made in the mucous mem- brane just beyond the denuded area, and when the two ends of the thi'ead are drawn upon and the raw surface is pushed inward, the latter forms a pouch, and the cut edges of the mucous membrane are brought together across the neck of this pouch. (Fig. 885.) The vagina should finally be loosely packed with gauze. In the after-treatment of these cases the urine should be drawn regularly by catheter, or, if this is considered unwise for any reason, the urine should be passed in the bed-pan while a stream of irrigating fluid from a fountain syringe is allowed to run over the vulva. If the urine is drawn, the gauze in the vagina can be left for several days, unless there is much uterine discharge, when a simple strip of gauze should be placed in the vagina daily for drainage. Vaginal irrigation will be unnecessary unless voluntary micturition is permitted. The patient should be kept in the recumbent position for at least two weeks, and preferably three, until union has become perfect. The bowel contents should be kept soft and moved every day. B. Operations for Complete Laceration.—Complete lacerations of the perineum are those which extend through the rectal septum and the sphincter ani. In rare cases the sphincter ani or the greater portion of it will be found torn but the rectal mucous membrane left intact. In coni- Stoltz's operation for eystoeele, with circular suture inserted ; with denudation for Hegar's operation for rec- tocele and lacerated perineum.