FOREIGN BODIES IN THE STOMACH. 938 majority of cases, yet it is often possible to suture the wound in that duct or to unite it with the duodenum, the duct being, as a rule, greatly dilated, even to the size of the thumb, in cases where these operations are necessary. It can be made more accessible by placing a pillow under the patient's loins and allowing the shoulders and pelvis to fall backward. SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE STOMACH. Topography.—The position of the stomach as usually represented is not quite correct, its true situation being much more nearly that known as the "foetal position;" that is to say, the long axis is nearly vertical, its lesser curvature being directed towards the right side of the body and the greater curvature towards the left. When the stomach is distended the greater curvature becomes very much larger, and forms a pouch extending upward under the diaphragm and downward below the level of the pylorus. The pylorus lies above the lowest part of this pouch, making with the duo- denum an co trap. As a result of chronic dilatation, the position of the stomach may be materially altered, the attachments of the pylorus giving way, and that valve being carried downward as low as the iliac region. In other cases the pylorus retains its position, and the pouch of the stomach descends even below the umbilicus. The pylorus in the empty condition of the organ is situated just under the border of the ribs and the liver, a trifle to the right of the middle line. When the stomach is distended the pylorus moves to the right and slightly downward, reaching a point midway between the median line and the nipple-line. Foreign Bodies.—Foreign bodies may enter the stomach, persons of weak minds frequently swallowing such articles as jack-knives and spoons, and hysterical women being known to swallow hair, which forms a ball in the stomach similar to the hair-balls so often found in cattle, due in the latter to the constant licking of their coats. These foreign bodies may be retained for a long time without discomfort, but they are apt to produce ulceration by pressure upon some part of the stomach-wall, or to become lodged in the pylorus and obstruct that opening. Such bodies can easily be removed by the operation of gastrotomy, and this should be performed at once in case they are too large to pass through the bowel. Inflammation.—Ulcer.—The inflammations of the stomach which interest the surgeon are those which produce gastric ulcer and chronic thick- ening of the muscular coats in the neighborhood of the pylorus. Ulcer of the stomach is apt to result in hemorrhage or peritonitis from perforation, and surgical treatment by excision of the ulcer has been attempted before the occurrence of these accidents, but not very successfully as yet, because it is difficult to recognize the situation of the ulcer. The ulcer is usually situated on the anterior wall, and very often near the lesser curvature. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—The majority of the patients are women about twenty-five years of age, and are household servants. The symptoms of gastric ulcer are intense localized pain in the stomach, increased by the presence of food ; vomiting, particularly the vomiting of bright blood ; loss of digestive power; and anaemia. Perforation into the peritoneal cavity may take place without any previous symptoms of gastric trouble, in eight per