1138 AMPUTATION AND EXTIRPATION OF THE PENIS. no matter how superficial the disease may be, and the glands in the groin thoroughly removed at the same time. In extensive cases, and even when the tumor is small, if it has involved the corpora cavernosa, these bodies should be followed back to their attachments to the pubic bone and com- pletely removed. The pubes and scrotum should be shaved and the parts sterilized before all of these operations. Amputation. —The ordinary operation of amputation of the penis, which may be employed for mild cases or those of an uncertain diagnosis, is performed by cutting a circular flap of skin about an inch anterior to where it is proposed to divide the body of the organ. The circular flap is retracted, and, tension being made on the penis, the surgeon slowly divides the corpora on each side in turn, catching the main vessels before or imme- diately after division. The corpus spongiosum should be dissected from the corpora cavernosa anterior to the point of division of the latter and left somewhat longer. After the larger vessels are ligatured, further hemor- rhage from the erectile tissue is prevented by two or three deep sutures, drawing the edges of the sheath together over the divided tissues. The circular flap may be united over the end of the stump in a transverse or in a vertical direction. In the latter case, which we consider the better method, the urethra is secured in the lower angle of the wound after having been slit up on its floor for at least half an inch in order to secure a wide meatus and to allow for subsequent contraction. If the transverse line of union is preferred, a puncture should be made in the lower flap at its base, and the end of the urethra secured in this opening, while the flaps are com- pletely united above. When amputation is performed for malignant disease, a complete and thorough dissection of the inguinal and femoral regions should be made at the same time, removing in one mass all glands, whether enlarged or not. We prefer to make this operation a part of the former, and extend the inguinal incisions well down to the root of the penis, so as to remove with the glands the fat and all the lymphatics running between that organ and the groin. The control of hemorrhage during amputation of the penis by an elastic bandage applied at the base has been recommended, but we have found it unnecessary, and it interferes with the complete removal of the organ. The secret of controlling the hemorrhage is the deliberate division of the parts, picking up the bleeding vessels with the artery clamps as soon as they are divided. Particular care must be taken that all hemorrhage is arrested before the wound is closed, as ligatures may loosen or slip off, or oozing points may give trouble a few hours after the operation. Extirpation.—In the more complete operation, called extirpation of the penis, the corpora cavernosa are dissected from the rami of the pubes. Eemoval of the contents of both groins may be combined with it, the in- cisions in the groins being made to meet at the root of the penis, and the glands and fat being removed in one mass and left attached to the root of the organ. The penis is then circumscribed by a circular incision, dividing only the skin, and the scrotum is then split in two by rapid strokes with stout scissors following the raphe. By blunt dissection the testicles, remain- ing in their tunics, are readily separated, and the two halves of the scrotum