811 DIPHTHERITIC CONJUNCTIVITIS. glycerin, from thirty to sixty grains to the ounce, or boroglyceride, from twenty to thirty per cent., are excellent applications. Of the numerous surgical measures which have been devised from time to time, in the experience of the writer Dr. Knapp's expression operation is the best. The patient being etherized, the lids are everted, and all the granulations and lymphoid infiltration are thoroughly expressed by rolling the diseased surface with a pair of forceps constructed on the principle of a mangle. (See Fig. 706.) During the rolling process the lids are kept Fig. 706. Knapp's trachoma forceps. flooded with a tepid solution of bichloride of mercury 1 to 5000, and at the expiration of the operation they are covered with frequently changed cold compresses. Great care must be taken to prevent adhesions. The subsequent treatment of the case is the same as that of any ordinary con- junctivitis—first, nitrate of silver, and later a more active astringent, for example, sulphate of copper. Pannus will usually subside with the disappearance of the granulations. If it does not, it must be treated like a vascular keratitis, with atropine or eserine. In severe cases the vascular supply of the cornea may be stopped by the operation of peritomy, which consists in dividing the conjunctiva in a circular manner around the margin of the cornea, about two millimetres from its edge. If the palpebral fissure is too short, it may be enlarged by the operation of cantho- plasty, in which the external commissure is divided and a flap of conjunctiva is attached to the skin margins, in the manner illus- trated in the accompanying cut. (Fig. 707.) Of the remaining types of conjunctivitis, two deserve special mention : (a) Diphtheritic Conjunctivitis.—This disease consists of a deposition of diph- theritic exudation within the conjunctival layers, causing a board-like painful swelling of the lids and usually rapid ulceration of operation of canthopiasty. the cornea. It generally arises during an attack of diphtheria, and is commonest between the ages of two and eight, but is rare in infants. The treatment should consist of cold applications, antiseptic irrigation of the conjunctiva, and atropine drops. French physicians advise the local application of lemon juice and citric acid ointment. Nitrate of silver should not be employed. Eecent experiences indicate that diphtheria antitoxine is