CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. 672 Fig. 611. the section is made through the femur just below the lesser trochanter in healthy bone, and if the upper fragment is flexed by the muscles inserted into the lesser trochanter the lower fragment unites at an angle, and subse- quent flexion of the thigh will be impossible. The appearance of the femur after a subtrochanteric osteotomy is shown in Fig. 611. In performing sub- trochanteric osteotomy a saw or an osteotome may be used. The limb being sterilized, an incision is made with a long, sharp-pointed tenotome on the outer side of the thigh just below the position of the lesser trochanter, and is carried down to the bone; Fig. 612. an Adams's saw is next in- troduced upon the tenotome as a guide, and when the bone has been reached the tenotome is withdrawn and the blade of the saw is grad- ually worked over the upper surface of the bone: as there is often adduction of the thigh as well as flexion, care should be taken to make the section at right angles to the long axis of the bone. The bone is then divided with short strokes of the saw from above downward, and when it is nearly di- vided the saw may be with- drawn, the division being completed by fracturing the remaining portion of the bone by bending the thigh downward. The wound should be closed with a compress of iodoform gauze or gauze and iodoform collodion, and the limb brought into a straight posi- tion and slightly abducted. The after-treatment consists in the application of a plaster of Paris bandage to the leg, thigh, and pelvis to fix the parts, or the case may be treated by an extension apparatus, weight and pulley, lateral support at the same time being given to the limb by sand bags. Fixation or extension should be maintained for at least six or eight weeks, after which the patient should use crutches for a few weeks before he is allowed to bear his weight upon the limb in walking. The results following this opera- tion are very satisfactory, and the operation is one attended with little danger. The correction of the deformity in Fig. 610 by osteotomy is shown in Fig. 612. CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. Congenital dislocation of the hip is a rather infrequent condition, although the most common of the congenital dislocations. It is more frequent in females than in males, and may be single or double. A number of theories have been advanced as to its causation, the most probable being that which Femur after subtrochanteric osteotomy. Result of subtro- chanteric osteotomy for deformity follow- ing coxalgia.