SYMPTOMS OF RICKETS. 547 soft yielding spots can be detected, the condition known as cmniotabes. The frontal portion of the skull is unduly prominent, the skull is broadened, and the face appears unnaturally narrow and sharp. The pelvis also un- dergoes changes; the iliac bones become flattened, the promontory of the sacrum is pushed forward, and the lateral walls of the pelvis are flattened. The long bones present very characteristic deformities; the epiphyses are enlarged, most markedly at the wrist and elbow, knee and ankle, and the bones become curved, either anteriorly or laterally, so that Fig. 472. Rachitic curvature of the spine. Deformities in rachitis. the deformities which are recognized as bow-leg, knock-knee, and anterior tibial curvature result. (Fig. 473.) Dentition is much delayed; the first teeth may not appear until the tenth or twelfth month, and the subsequent eruption of the teeth is retarded and irregular. Symptoms.—In infants the earliest symptoms of rickets are restless- ness at night, profuse perspiration of the head, constipation, and swelling of the belly. In older children, inability to sit upright and delayed den- tition and tardiness in walking may first attract attention to the disease. The epiphyses are enlarged, and examination will often reveal curvature of the spine, changes in the shape of the head and breast, and marked curva- tures in the long bones. The patients may present chronic bronchial catarrh, and have sometimes attacks of laryngismus stridulus. The most important diagnostic symptoms of the disease are enlargement of the epiphyses, de- layed dentition, and open fontanelles. Treatment.—When the disease is recognized early and treatment is begun promptly, the prognosis is good, the patient's general condition im- proving rapidly and the deformity disappearing in a large proportion of the cases. The most important part of the treatment of rickets is change or regulation of the diet; fresh milk properly diluted should be substituted for prepared foods ; meat juice or raw meat should also be given. Care should