1006 TREATMENT OF FISSURE OF THE ANUS. in children is a much more common affection than is generally supposed. The frequency of seat-worms in children, causing them to scratch and injure the mucous membrane of the anus, may be a factor in the production of fissure. Symptoms.—The most characteristic symptom is intense paroxysmal pain, which comes on immediately or a short time after a movement of the bowels. The pain may be so severe that it completely incapacitates the patient for work or exercise, and he is compelled to rest until it has passed away. When it has once subsided it does not appear until the bowels are again moved. The patient is apt to postpone going to stool for a number of days, and when the bowels move the affection is aggravated by the pas- sage of large and hard fecal masses. Occasionally a few drops of blood from the ulcer escape with the feces. During the paroxysm of pain reflected pains may be felt in the neck of the bladder, in the loins, and in the thighs. The pain may last for only a few minutes or may persist for hours. Treatment.—The results of treatment are usually most satisfactory, and consist in local applications to the ulcer, or in partial division or stretching of the sphincter, which causes a temporary paralysis of the muscle and puts the ulcer at rest until repair can take place. We were formerly of the opin- ion that only the radical method of treatment was followed by success, but recently we have seen cases in which recovery followed where less heroic methods were employed. In some cases the daily application to the ulcer of a ten- to fifteen-grain solution of nitrate of silver, and an ointment of iodoform, or of calomel, gr. x, with the use of laxatives to produce a daily soft motion, will be followed by a cure. The application of pure carbolic acid to the fissure may also be followed by good results. This treatment is, we think, especially adapted to fissure of the anus in children, although we have seen it followed by good results in adults. A method, however, which is more certain consists in having the bowels moved by a laxative or an injection, and after administering an anaesthetic the anus is irrigated with a solution of boric acid; the base of the ulcer is then in- cised with a sharp bistoury, par- tially dividing the sphincter, the thumbs are introduced into the rectum, and the sphincter is well stretched. (Fig. 808.) Stretching of the sphincter without incision of the ulcer may also be practised, and by so doing the muscular fibres are stretched or lacerated, so that paralysis of the muscle results. After the sphincter has been divided or stretched, an opium suppository is introduced into the rectum, and a small gauze dressing is applied to the anus. The bowels should be kept quiet for about three days, and after this time daily movements are Fig. 808. Stretching the sphincter.