TREATMENT OF FIBROID TUMOR OF THE UTERUS. 1196 cystic. If single, they present a globular or pear-shaped mass, usually movable, the uterus moving with them, but they may become fixed by adhesions or by growing between the layers of the broad ligament. The uterine sound generally shows a considerable increase in the depth of the uterine canal. The bladder may also be proved to extend upward upon their anterior faces by examination with the sound. The uterus is usually displaced upward. A subperitoneal fibroid tumor may be connected with the uterus by only a narrow pedicle, and may be quite freely movable inde- pendently of that organ even when the tumor is of large size. These tumors are often multiple, and then several hard masses may be felt connected together but independently movable. Treatment.—A small fibroid which gives no symptoms requires no treatment, as the growth of the tumor is slow, and until it reaches at least the size of a man's fist, or causes decided symptoms, it should not be oper- ated upon. Fibroids cease to bleed and become atrophied when the meno- pause arrives. When, therefore, a fibroid is first discovered at this time, and is troublesome only on account of hemorrhage, it does not require operation even if it is of considerable size, provided the hemorrhage can be reduced by the administration of gallic acid or ergot, by a thorough curetting of the uterine canal, or by electrolysis. The presence of the tumor, however, may delay the menopause for several years, and this fact must be given due weight in the selection of treatment. Electricity has been recommended for the treatment of fibroids, and some remarkable cures have been claimed. The general experience, however, appears to be that it lessens the hemorrhage, but does not always reduce the size of the tumor. The method most in use is known as Apostolus, and consists in the intro- duction into the uterine canal of an electrode connected with the negative pole, the positive pole being attached to a large flat electrode of metal, covered with cotton, gauze, sponge, or clay, and placed upon the abdomen. A strong current of from 150 to 300 milliamperes is used, and the seances are repeated weekly. If used to check hemorrhage, the intrauterine elec- trode is connected with the positive pole. If a good result is not obtained in a few sittings, the method should be abandoned. Oophorectomy.—When the tumor itself is not troublesome, or when the condition of the patient forbids more extensive operations, removal of the ovaries and tubes has been suggested, in order to control the hemorrhage by bringing on an artificial menopause. Theoretically the operation prom- ised well, but practically it has been found that its execution is exceedingly difficult in some cases, and may require a very large incision on account of the unusual position of the ovaries and tubes, which may be carried high up into the abdomen by the growth of the tumor. The removal of the ovaries, moreover, does not always bring about the menopause, as instances have been known in which the hemorrhages from the uterus have continued for months or years after the operation. There can be no doubt, however, that the shock of oophorectomy is less than that caused by the removal of a large fibroid. The operation is done by a median incision, the ovary and Fallopian tube on each side being ligated and cut away, and the abdomen closed as usual. Another palliative method of treatment consists in the