299 AMPUTATIONS OF THE THIGH. flexed, the liganientuin patellae is cut through, the joint is opened, and the disarticulation is effected by dividing the capsular and lateral ligaments close to the femur, so that the semilunar cartilages and the greater part of the capsular ligament shall remain attached to the tibia. The crucial ligaments and remaining tissues are then divided, and the disarticulation is effected. After the vessels have been ligatured, the cuff of skin is turned down over the patella and cartilages, and its edges are brought together transversely by sutures. Gritti's Amputation at the Knee-Joint.—In this operation a long anterior rectangular flap is cut and dissected up, and after the dis- articulation has been effected the skin covering the posterior surface of the knee is cut from within outward. The condyles of the femur are next removed by a saw, just above the edge of the articular cartilage, and the articular surface of the patella is also removed with the saw. The patella is next brought down so that its sawed surface shall be in contact with the sawed surface of the condyles, and the flaps are approximated with sutures. Carden's Amputation.—This amputation is performed by making an anterior flap whose lower extremity is three finger-breadths below the patella; this is cut and dissected up, and the disarticulation is effected. A short posterior flap similar to that in amputation through the knee-joint is next cut; the joint is opened, and the disarticulation is effected. The patella is then removed and the condyles of the femur are sawed through just above the edge of the articular cartilage. The vessels requiring ligature in amputations at the knee-joint are the popliteal artery and popliteal vein, the sural arteries, and a few muscular branches. The circular or long anterior flap method is generally employed in amputation at the knee. AMPUTATIONS OF THE THIGH. Amputation may be performed at any portion of the thigh ; the gravity of the operation increases with the proximity of the section to the trunk. The methods employed in amputation of the thigh are the circular method, the modified circular method with oval skin-flaps, and the method by transfixion. The Circular Method.—This method of amputation is employed at the lower portion of the thigh and in cases where the thigh is not very mus- cular. In this method a circular incision is made around the thigh, dividing the skin and cellular tissue ; this having been dissected back for a short dis- tance and retracted, the surgeon makes a circular sweep with the knife, dividing all the tissues down to the bone ; a retractor is next applied, and the bone is divided with a saw. The Modified Circular Method.—This method of amputation is applicable to all portions of the thigh, and consists in making anterior and posterior oval skin-flaps or lateral oval flaps (Fig. 241); these are dissected up, and a circular incision of the muscles down to the bone is next made. The soft parts being retracted, the bone is divided with a saw.