TREATMENT OF CANCER O 1034 non-malignant stricture of the rectum tl development of symptoms is very slow, and upon examination the absen< of nodular masses, so common in cancer, is noted. In stricture of the rec im from tumors pressing upon the gut, upon the introduction of the fir jr into the rectum it will be observed that the mucous membrane is hea] ly and is freely movable. The peculiar cachectic appearance which is coi uon to malignant disease soon develops in malignant disease of the recti L particularly if there is free bleeding, and is not observed in non-m ignant stricture, even of long duration. Treatment.—The treatment of maligi nt disease of the rectum de- pends upon the stage at which the disease i seen and the extent to which the disease has involved the rectum and si rounding tissues. Many cases come under the care of the surgeon who ab lutely refuse to have an opera- tion done, or in whom the disease has inv ved the tissues so extensively that no operative treatment of the growl is justifiable. In such cases the surgeon must consider the treatment w ch is most likely to render the patient's condition comfortable or bearabl until the fatal termination of the affection. Opium, in the form of su >ositories, or morphine hypo- dermically, sooner or later has to be reso ed to. Its use is indicated as soon as the pain is severe, but the quanti employed should be regulated by the surgeon, so that the patient shall n ; acquire the opium habit early in the disease. The diet should be care lly regulated to diminish the quantity of the fecal matter, and the occa onal use of purgatives may be required. The operative treatment of cancer of t \ rectum should be restricted to excision of the growth, or to the establish] jnt of an artificial anus by the operation of colostomy, which may be cons ered in the light of a palliative procedure. Such procedures as linear pr stotomy, curetting the growth, and the application of caustics, result in lil e benefit, and cannot be recom- mended. The use of rectal bougies in n al cancer is attended with so much danger and so little benefit that they lould never be employed. When operative treatment is decided up 1, the choice of operation should rest between excision of the rectum and (lostomy. The latter operation should not be delayed until it is performedo relieve intestinal obstruction, but should be employed as soon as symptoi i of obstruction appear. When the presence of rectal cancer is recognized, f operative treatment is decided upon, one of these operations should be pe ormed. Great diversity of opinion exists amonisurgeons as to whether excision THE RECTUM. ie question is undecided. Ex- ost encouraging results, but the or colostomy is the better operation, and cision, if undertaken early, is followed by immediate risk of the operation is great, ajl recurrence usually takes place within a year or two. Excision of the rectum, in selected cas(, is now being more widely em ployed, and should be practised in limited Movable growths unless there are signs of secondary deposits in the glands results of the operation are more favorable reporting about twenty per cent, of cur< results from shock, hemorrhage, or sepsis probably about fifteen per cent, in the liver, and although the nder aseptic precautions, Curtis still a considerable mortality