588 OLD DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. neck of the femur may also occur iu attempts to reduce these dislocations. In the event of such an accident efforts should be made to replace the head of the bone in the acetabulum by manipulation, but this is not likely to be successful, and the case should be treated as one of fracture of the neck of the femur, when a fairly useful limb may result, or excision of the head of the bone may be practised. Compound dislocations of the femur are rare accidents, and are usu- ally produced by great violence. In such a case an attempt should be made to reduce the displaced bone, and if this cannot be successfully done, the head of the bone should be excised. Injury of the femoral vessels is not common in dislocation of the femur, but has occasionally occurred in pubic dislocations. Old Dislocations of the Femur.—The reduction of old dislocations of the femur is usually a matter of the greatest difficulty. After the head of the bone has been dislocated for a few weeks it is often impossible to re- place it. An old ischiatic or obturator dislocation is less amenable to treat- ment than a pubic or an iliac dislocation. In old dislocations of the femur the head of the bone may undergo changes, or the acetabulum may become more shallow from filling up or from the absorption of the edges, so that it will be difficult for the bone to remain in place in case of its reduction. Attempts to reduce dislocations of the femur are usually not successful after several months, but cases of months' or even years' standing have been re- duced. The reduction of old dislocations of the femur should be attempted if the displacement causes great disability or pain. Treatment.—The patient should be anesthetized, and motion made to break up adhesions as far as possible : then the proper manipulations for the reduction of particular dislocations should be practised. If these fail, ex- tension and counter-extension may be employed by the use of the pulley and extending bands, or the method of angular extension suggested by Big- elow may be employed: we succeeded in reducing a dorsal dislocation of the femur of six weeks' standing by the use of this method. Where reduc- tion cannot be accomplished, excision of the head of the bone has been practised with good results, and this operation should be considered in suit- able cases. Should fracture occur near the head of the bone during attempts at reduction of an old dislocation, further manipulations should be aban- doned, and the limb dressed in such a position as to diminish the deformity, with the chance that a false joint might occur at the seat of fracture, giving the patient a more useful limb. DISLOCATIONS OF THE PATELLA. These occur from blows or falls upon the side of the bone, especially when the knee is slightly flexed, or may result from muscular violence. The patella may be dislocated outward, inward, vertically, upward, or downward. Outward Dislocation.—The outward or external dislocation of the patella is the most common, because the bone lies in the tendon of the quad- riceps extensor cruris muscle, and the tendo patellae is attached at an angle the vertex of which is directed towards the internal condyle. Forcible con-