908 CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST. Fig. 763. Extreme oedema of the arm from carcinoma of breast. (Case of Dr. J. B. Deaver.) glands appeared to be involved from the very first, and others in which they were free, even after the disease had lasted for years. We have removed a scirrhous carcinoma from an aged woman, with a history of six or seven years' duration, in which the glands showed no trace of involvement. (See Fig. 764.) In the later stages the pressure of the glands upon the axillary vein causes great cedema of the arm. (Fig. 763.) The skin becomes adherent to the tumor in about fifteen months (Gross), but occasionally a few weeks after the tumor appears. This adhesion of the skin is caused by the traction of the new growth on the fibrous stroma of the gland, which is continuous through the capsule with the subcutaneous fibrous tissue. Ulceration takes place in about eighteen months, although it may be absent even in tumors which have existed for a long time and in which the skin is evidently involved in the process. The nipple is retracted in the majority of cases, this change being evident during the first six months. According to Gross, retraction is found in fifty-two per cent., but in our experience it is exceptional not to find it, although it may be delayed for a year or more. A discharge from the nipple is sometimes seen, being usually bloody or serous, and occasionally milky. Pain is generally absent in the first stages of the disease, and this fact cannot be too much insisted upon, for it is a common error to suppose that malignant disease is invariably painful. The pain, as a rule, is slight until the tumor has attained a considerable size or the disease has progressed into the axilla, where it presses upon the nerves, and then it may be excruci- ating. The breast becomes fixed upon the pectoral muscle near the end of the second year, although this change has been observed even in the first three months. Cachexia follows when the ulceration has been marked and some septic absorption has taken place, when there has been much loss of blood or great pain, or, finally, when the secondary deposits in important organs have interfered with the bodily functions. The secondary tumors are found in all organs of the body, most frequently in the lungs and the liver, more rarely in the bones and the brain. It should be noted that metastasis fre- quently takes place before the lymph-nodes are involved. The ordinary carcinoma, as a rule, is a tumor the size of an English walnut, or perhaps as large as a hen's egg when first seen, densely hard, smooth or nodular on the surface, generally adherent to the skin, the nipple slightly retracted, and with one or two small glands to be felt in the axilla, the breast being movable upon the pectoral muscle. In some cases there will be early ulceration of the skin even in tumors of this size, and in others the axillary involvement will be far in advance of the development in the breast. In the soft variety of carcinoma (encephaloid) the growth is more rapid, the tumor is likely to be much larger when first noticed, and ulcera- tion may take place very early. In cancerous ulceration the skin becomes