COMPOUND FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 492 is justified in suturing a fractured patella unless he is in a position to do an operation in which every aseptic detail can be carried out. Malgaigne's Hooks.—A method of treatment which apparently gives as good results as the suturing of the patella, and which is accompanied by no greater risk, is that of approximation of the fragments by means of Malgaigne's hooks. (Fig. 417.) In applying this treatment the skin in the neighborhood of the knee should be thoroughly sterilized; punctures are made down to the fragments with a tenotome, the hooks are placed in position in the lower and upper fragments, and the fragments are then brought together by turning the screw which approximates the Malgaigne's hooks. hooks. An antiseptic dressing is applied over the hooks, and they are allowed to stay in position for two or three weeks ; at the end of this time they are removed, and the leg is dressed with a plaster of Paris dressing, which is retained for from four to six weeks. Circumpatellar Suture.—Another method of treatment which has re- cently been employed with success is the circumpatellar subcutaneous suture, recommended by Mr. Barker, which consists in making a puncture through the ligamentum patellae with a tenotome and passing through this puncture a heavy curved needle with an eye near its point, which is passed under the patella, transfixing the tendon of the quadriceps, and is then brought out through the skin ; this is threaded with a heavy silk or silver wire suture and is withdrawn ; the needle is again passed through the same puncture and passed over the patella, and its point is made to emerge through the original puncture in the skin below the patella. The other end of the ligature is then threaded into the needle, and it is withdrawn; the ends of the suture are then securely tied by several knots, which are buried in the wound, the ends being cut off. The small wounds are closed by compresses of antiseptic gauze, and the limb is placed upon a posterior splint or in a plaster of Paris dressing. In this operation it is essential that all aseptic details should be most carefully observed. Compound Fractures of the Patella.—Compound fractures of the patella are most serious injuries, and should be treated by first thoroughly sterilizing the wound and removing all loose fragments, then introducing heavy wire sutures to secure the fragments in apposition, and following this procedure by suture of the capsular structures with catgut and the in- troduction of a drainage-tube. The wound should be closed and dressed with a copious antiseptic dressing, and fixation of the leg in the extended position should be maintained by the application of a posterior splint or by a plaster of Paris dressing. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. Fractures of the Tibia and Fibula.—Fractures of both bones of the leg are common accidents, and may result from force directly applied, as in the case of heavy bodies falling upon the leg, or the kicks of horses, or the