295 ROUX'S AMPUTATION. Line of incisions in Roux's amputation at the ankle: a, dorsal, b, plantar, incision. the malleoli are exposed. A narrow saw is next applied to the upper and posterior part of the calcaneuin behind the astragalus, and it is divided ob- liquely downward in the line of the plantar incision. (Fig. 233.) The malleoli and a thin slice of the tibia are next removed with a saw, as in Syme's amputation. Some surgeons do not remove the malleoli, but press the sawed surface of the os calcis between them when it is possible to do so. By this amputation an admirable stump may be obtained; the calcaneum being firmly attached to the bones of the leg, the length Fig. 234. of the limb is not seriously altered. Roux's Amputation at the Ankle-Joint.—In this method of amputation an in- cision is made at the outer edge of the tendo Achillis a little above its insertion, and is carried forward under the outer malleolus and across the instep and back to a point just in front of the inner malle- olus ; the incision is carried from this point downward and partly across the sole of the foot, and then back to the point of origin of the original incision. (Fig. 234.) The flaps are dissected up for a short distance ; the ankle-joint is then opened, the disarticulation is effected, and the internal flap is carefully dissected from the bones. Osteoplastic Resection of the Foot.—As a substitute for amputation at the ankle-joint in injuries or diseases of the os calcis or in intractable ulceration of the heel, the Mikulicz-Wladimiroff operation, or osteoplastic resection of the foot, has been practised, consisting in the removal of the soft parts covering the heel, together with the os calcis and the astragalus, and bringing into contact the sawn surfaces of the tibia and fibula on the one hand and those of the cuboid and scaphoid on the other, the foot thus being fixed in the position of talipes equinus, and the patient walking on the balls and phalanges of the toes. (Fig. 235.) A transverse incision is made across the sole of the foot from the tuberosity of the scaphoid to a point a little behind the fifth metatarsal bone ; two incisions are next carried from the extremities of this cut on each side of the foot obliquely upward to the bases of the malleoli; the two extremities of the cut are finally joined by a horizontal incision which crosses over the tendo Achillis and completes the wound. The foot is next flexed, the tendo Achillis is divided, and the ankle-joint is opened from Fig. 235. Result of osteoplastic re- section of the foot. (After Esmarch.)