ANKYLOSIS. 609 quently suffer from this accident soon learn to replace the cartilage them- selves, by bearing their weight upon the flexed knee and suddenly transfer- ring the weight of the body to the other leg and extending the knee of the injured leg. If, however, it is impossible to replace the detached cartilage, or if the accident is of such frequent occurrence as to cause constant dis- ability, operative treatment should be instituted. The joint should be opened by an incision, the greatest care being taken to make the operation an aseptic one, and the detached cartilage exjmsed and removed, or sutured again to the edge of the tibia with silk or kangaroo tendon sutures, the wound in the capsule of the joint being closed with sutures, as well as the external wound. After dressing the wound the leg should be placed upon a posterior splint to fix the knee-joint, or a plaster of Paris dressing applied. Fixation of the joint should be maintained until the wound is solidly healed. Ankylosis.—This condition, which consists in the partial or complete obliteration of the motions of a joint, results from alteration of the surfaces of the joint from disease ; disuse in the larger joints is not capable of pro- ducing complete ankylosis. Ankylosis may be either fibrous or bony ; the former arises from the removal of the superficial layer of the articular carti- lages by ulceration and the deposit of plastic material ; while the latter always results from the complete destruction of the articular cartilages, so that the ends of the bones come in contact and unite. Ankylosis of a joint may also result from periarthritis. Ankylosis of a joint may result from wounds involving a joint followed by suppurative arthritis, or from the organization of effused blood in the joint, the latter producing only fibrous ankylosis, or from acute or chronic arthritis accompanied by destruction of the articular cartilages, producing bony ankylosis. Ankylosis of joints may occur in such positions that the limb is absolutely useless, or may take place with the limb in such a position that the part can be of use to the patient. In fibrous ankylosis there is always a fair chance that the motions of the joint may be regained ; in cases of bony ankylosis it is impossible to have restoration of joint motion. Treatment.—In the treatment of ankylosed joints the surgeon has an opportunity to exercise great surgical judgment. In cases of stiffness of joints from disuse, such as is frequently found after prolonged fixation of joints in the treatment of fractures, where there is no true ankylosis, passive motion and massage should be employed, and will usually be followed by the restoration of function. In fibrous ankylosis with the limb in bad position, following contu- sions or wounds of joints, where the ankylosis is probably due to intra- and periarticular fibrous bands, an anaesthetic should be administered and forcible movements of the joint made to break up adhesions, and, after putting the joint at rest for a few days, passive motion should be carefully practised. If the cases are of long standing and the contraction is marked, the surgeon should remember the possibility of contracture of the important blood-vessels and nerves, which may be torn if forcible movements of the joint are made in straightening the limb. In such excision of the joint is preferable. In cases of fibrous ankylosis of joints in good position as regards their usefulness, and of fibrous ankylosis resulting from tubercular 39