859 TRACHEOTOMY. border of the scapula, resecting the ribs, from the fourth to the eighth posteriorly at their angles, and detaching the pleura from its mediastinal attachments to the root of the lung, thus exposing the bronchus. TRACHEOTOMY. The operation of tracheotomy consists in dividing the tissues over the trachea in the median line of the neck, and, after the trachea has been ex- posed, opening it by dividing two or three of the tracheal rings. It may be required to relieve the dyspnoea dependent upon membranous or diph- theritic laryngitis, growths in the larynx or trachea, growths external to these organs, causing pressure upon them, and oedema of the mucous mem- brane of the larynx or trachea from inflammation, from burns or scalds, or from the inhalation of irritating gases or the swallowing of corrosive liquids. The operation may also be required for the removal of foreign bodies from the larynx or trachea, or from the bronchi, as well as for the relief of dyspnoea due to their presence. It is sometimes demanded in contusion, laceration, or fracture of the larynx or trachea, and occasionally in spasm of the glottis, and in glossitis, to overcome the mechanical ob- struction which prevents the entrance of air into the air passages. The ease with which the trachea is exposed and opened varies much in different cases; as a rule, it is a much simpler operation in adults than in children. In children the shortness of the neck and the abundance of adipose tissue cause the trachea to be deeply seated, while the relatively greater size of the thyroid gland and the presence of the thymus body render the trachea difficult to expose and open. In an emergency the operation may be performed with very few instru- ments, but if the surgeon has the choice he will find it convenient to have at hand two small scalpels, one short grooved director, a tenaculum, two aneurism-needles, which may be used as retractors, haemostatic forceps, two pairs of dissecting forceps, a pair of scissors, a sharp-pointed tenotome, a pair of tracheal forceps, a tracheal dilator, tracheotomy-tubes, tapes, liga- tures, sponges, a flexible catheter, and feathers. The director should be short, the ordinary grooved director being too long to use with satisfaction in operating upon the short necks of children. We employ a short, broad director with a bevelled extremity, which allows it to be passed with ease between the different layers of the tissues. (Fig. FlG- 737 • 737.) Haemostatic forceps are of great use in con- trolling hemorrhage during the operation. A sharp- pointed tenotome is the in- strument we prefer to em- ploy in opening the trachea, as its sharp point enables it to be easily thrust into the trachea, and its short cutting surface and the narrowness of the blade obscure as little as possible the line of incision, thus enabling the operator to see exactly where he is cutting. Tracheal dilators of various kinds are employed, but the most satisfactorv tracheal dilator is that of Tracheotomy director.