370 ORBITAL ANEURISM. into the pharynx, and must be diagnosed from tumor and abscess in that locality. It sometimes produces paralysis in the distribution of the pneumo- gastric, hypoglossal, and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. The intracranial form is usually small, and is often unassociated with symptoms before rupture. It is difficult to diagnose it from other aneurisms at the base of the brain developing in the middle cerebral and basilar arteries. Headache, gid- diness, paralysis, and optic neuritis have been observed, and a murmur is sometimes complained of by the patient. The effect of compression of the common carotid on this murmur has been suggested as an aid to diagnosis. Rupture of an aneurism of the internal carotid into the cavernous sinus may be the starting-point of an intra-orbital aneurism. If diagnosed as an affec- tion of the internal carotid or middle cerebral, ligature of the common or internal carotid would be indicated, otherwise medical means must be the limit of treatment. External Carotid Aneurism. —This should be treated by ligation of that vessel if possible, otherwise the ligature must be applied to the com- mon carotid artery. Excision has been recommended when the branches are the seat of the dilatation. Orbital Aneurism.—This is associated with protrusion and pulsa- tion of the eyeball, loss of movement, fixation of the pupil, opacity of the media, impairment of vision, and sometimes enlargement and pulsation of the retinal veins. Frecpiently there appears a pulsating tumor at either angle of the orbit, generally the inner ; there are thrill, bruit, and sometimes involvement of the veins of the face. (Fig. 279.) This condition depends upon one of several pathological lesions. Aneurism of the ophthalmic artery may produce exophthalmos, but the involve- ment of the veins is wanting. This is brought about in one of several ways in the cranium. An aneurism of the in- ternal carotid, as already mentioned, may burst into the cavernous sinus, or a communication between the two may be established by traumatism, as a punc- tured wound, where they lie in intimate relationship on the floor of the cranium. Riviugton has shown this to be the most frequent lesion. The same effect may be produced by an aneurism of the in- ternal carotid or ophthalmic artery pressing on the cavernous sinus, forcing the blood backward into the afferent vessels in the orbit. Congenital cirsoid aneurism and thrombosis of the cavernous sinus are also given as causes of this condition. The other eye may be secondarily affected by means of the communication between the two sinuses. It may result in blindness and death from hemorrhage. Diagnosis must exclude sarcoma of the orbit. Treatment.—Medical treatment should first be tried, and rest in bed, with iodide of potassium, will sometimes effect a cure. Ligation of the com- Fig. 279. Orbital aneurism. (Morton.)