EMBOLISM. 340 usually be seen and felt; if an artery be involved, the absence of pulse and anaemia of the tissues below the obstruction can generally be observed; in veins, swelling and oedema of the tissues drained by the veins are very marked. When thrombosis involves important organs, impairment of func- tion results in proportion to the amount of the organ involved. Pain in the course of the vessel is a common symptom. Anaesthesia may also be present in the swollen tissues, presenting a form of infiltration anaesthesia. EMBOLISM. The process of the passage of a foreign body or blood-clot and its deposit in a different portion of the vascular system is known as embolism. An embolus consists of a detached portion of a thrombus, a globule of fat, a vegetation from the valves of the heart, or a portion of a tumor, which is swept into the circulation and is ultimately arrested in some portion of the arterial or venous system, where it causes plugging of the vessel. Emboli may arise either in the venous or in the arterial system. An embolus is arrested when it reaches a vessel whose diameter is less than its own, and is apt to lodge in a vessel at a point where its diameter very suddenly di- minishes—for instance, after a bifurcation. When an embolus lodges it may partially or completely obstruct the circulation in the parts supplied by the obstructed vessel. The results following embolism depend upon the size of the embolus and the site of its arrest, as well as upon whether it is infective or non-infective. A small non-infective embolus may be arrested in a vessel and give rise to no marked symptoms, or may be lodged in the pulmonary artery, giving rise to dyspnoea, haemoptysis, and a localized pneumonia. On the other hand, the embolus may be arrested in one of the cerebral ves- sels and cause paralysis or subsequent degenerative changes in the cerebral tissue, or a large embolus may be arrested in the heart and cause sudden death. Treatment.—In view of the possibility of embolism which may be rap- idly fatal or may result in permanent impairment of function, the greatest care should be exercised in every case of thrombosis to prevent this com- plication. A patient with a thrombosed vein should be kept at rest, and the part should also be kept entirely at rest until sufficient time has elapsed for the organization of the clot, or until it has been absorbed or disinte- grated. The detachment of a portion of the clot takes place without warn- ing, often upon some slight exertion. Sudden death from cardiac arrest in these cases has generally occurred in patients who were considered out of danger; therefore the surgeon should stand upon the side of safety by keeping the patient quiet for a period longer than would seem absolutely necessary. DISEASES OF THE VEINS. The walls of the veins are thinner than those of the arteries, and are composed of three coats, an inner coat of connective tissue lined with endo- thelium, a middle coat composed of circular and longitudinal fibres inter- laced with involuntary muscular fibres which are much less abundantly developed than in the arteries, and an external fibrous coat composed