362 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. may be placed over the artery and the limb bandaged and elevated, or, if not contra-indicated, the limb may be bandaged in the position of flexion. These temporary measures may allow the patient to rest until compres- sion is again bearable : failing this, ligation, or one of the other operative measures, must be resorted to. Rapid compression, which is accomplished by temporary complete obliteration of the vessel, effects a cure by causing coagulation en masse of the contents of the aneurism. It was first practised for aneurism of the abdominal aorta, and is employed for disease of that ves- sel and for iliac and femoral aneurisms. It requires a maintenance of anaes- thesia for several hours, and is attended by considerable risk of injury to the viscera and the sac, and of peritonitis. While the mortality is high by this method, it must be remembered that it is employed only in those des- perate cases in which other treatment is impossible. Distal compression, which also aims at causing coagulation en masse, is much inferior to the distal ligature, either Wardrop's or Brasdor's, as it permits a speedy dis- persal of the soft coaguluin after removal of the pressure, time not being given for permanent contraction and obliteration. It also throws great strain upon the sac. It is applicable only to some cases of aneurism of the abdominal aorta or at the root of the neck. Direct compression of the sac, the old method of treating arterio-venous aneurisms, is still occasionally used as an adjunct to other modes of treat- ment. Flexion, which was introduced by Ernest Hart, is a simple procedure, adaptable to popliteal, inguinal, axillary, and brachial aneurisms at the elbow, and consists in flexing the limb and bandaging it in that position. It is fairly successful, especially in combination with other measures, and, although painful, is not dangerous. It is contra-indicated in large aneu- risms, in aneurisms communicating with joints, and in cases where there is inflammation of the sac or oedema of the limb. Reid's Method.—This is applicable only to aneurisms of the extremi- ties, and is preferred by Stimson to any other form of compression where it can be practised. The patient, after a preliminary stage of dieting and administration of potassium iodide, is etherized, and an Esmareh's bandage is evenly and firmly applied from the roots of the digits up to the aneurism, which is either passed over or, when large and rapidly growing, slightly compressed without being emptied, and the bandage firmly applied up to the trunk. If pulsation in the aneurism is not checked, the Esmai-ch's tube is applied immediately above the bandage. The whole apparatus is allowed to remain about one and a half hours, during which time anaesthesia is kept up. At the end of this time the anesthetic is discontinued, the bandage and tube are removed, and a Carte's compressor or other instrument is applied to the artery above the aneurism for from twelve to twenty-four hours longer, being gradually removed. By this method a large quantity of blood is confined in the sac and the artery leading to and from it, which undergoes rapid coagulation, the clot extending into the artery being organized, and that in the sac gradually condensing. The subsequent compression of the vessel is made to prevent the blood- stream from washing away the soft clots before they are firmly contracted.