THYROIDECTOMY. 794 causing absorption of its cartilages, so that the softened wall is flattened and there is extreme obstruction to breathing. Goitre is found at all ages, but most commonly reaches a large size about the thirtieth year. It grows slowly, taking ten, fifteen, or twenty years to develop, and in this country we do not see the largest of these tumors. Treatment.—Many different methods of treating adenomatous tumors of the thyroid gland have been suggested. Iodide of potassium in full doses has proved successful in a few cases, but only in small tumors. In- jections of iodine into the substance of the tumor have beeu more success- ful, the tumors for which it is best suited being the soft parenchymatous growths of moderate size, for in the cysts it produces little or no effect, Churchill's tincture of iodine is used, and ten, fifteen, or twenty drops are injected directly into the substance of the gland, under conditions of abso- lute asepsis, the needle being passed deep into the gland, so as to avoid the large veins of the capsule. The only dangers of the treatment seem to be the infection of the tissues, with consequent suppuration, and the injection of the iodine directly into a vein, which has caused instant death. There is usually an inflammatory reaction, lasting several days and slowly subsiding, after which the gland becomes smaller and firmer. Thyroid Feeding.—The internal administration of fresh thyroid mate- rial or extract has been recommended, and has proved efficacious in some cases, but the remedy seems to be capricious, and sometimes brings on symp- toms similar to those of exophthalmic goitre. Exposure.—Some French surgeons have recommended that instead of removing the gland the skin and the capsule should be incised and the gland turned out and left projecting in the wound, where it is said to undergo atrophy. This method leaves an unsightly scar, and there is dan- ger of infection while the tumor is exposed, hence the operation has not become popular. Ligature of the thyroid arteries has been tried, and with good success. The gland atrophies without sloughing, and there appears to be no dan- ger of sloughing or myxoedema even when all four vessels are tied. But the operation is as difficult as excision, and the scars are even more ex- tensive, so that partial thyroidectomy still remains the most generally appli- cable treatment for goitre. Thyroidectomy.—Complete removal of the thyroid gland is not allow- able, on account of the danger that myxoedema may follow. Partial removal may be performed either without or within the capsule of the gland. If it is desirable to remove the lobe and its capsule, an oblique or a horizontal incision, with its centre over the most prominent part of the tumor, or an angular incision forming part of a Y, the upright of the Y beginning in the middle line at the sternum and the oblique line passing upward from the level of the cricoid cartilage towards the angle of the jaw, may be em- ployed. The triangular flap of skin is turned back, the capsule of the gland is exposed, and any veins which cross the wound are divided be- tween double ligatures. The tumor is bluntly dissected out. A vein will be found passing off from the upper corner of the lobe on the median side, and should be divided between two ligatures, and on the outer side will