1177 OPERATIONS FOR VAGINAL FISTULA. mucous membrane into the bladder and reinforcing it by another flap from the same source. (See under Hypospadias—Diseases of the Urinary Organs.) The bladder may be dissected up from the uterus and from the vagina through an incision along the posteror margin of large fistula? situated high up and its base drawn downward and forward and sutured to the freshened anterior margin of the fistula so as to close the latter (Kelly). In very Fig. 894. Operation for vesieo-vaginal fistula. Tying the sutures. (Jewett and Polak.) severe cases the bladder may be exposed by a suprapubic incision, the peri- toneum drawn up, and the fistula reached in this manner, or the bladder may be opened as in ordinary suprapubic cystotomy and the fistulous opening sutured from within. Sometimes the vaginal portion of the uterus may be used to close the opening. In operating upon fistula? involving the uterine cervical canal, wounds of the ureter must be avoided. The most difficult of all cases are those in which the ureter itself is involved in the fistula. In cases of a lateral opening in the ureter near its orifice the remaining part of the canal should be laid widely open down to the base of the bladder. The large opening thus created may be closed by one of the methods already described. Fistulae which do not admit of cure by other operations have been treated by closing the introitus of the vagina and making the vaginal cavity practically a part of the bladder. This operation is suitable only for women of advanced life who have ceased to menstruate, as the ad- mixture of the menstrual blood with the urine would be apt to result in a severe cystitis. A preliminary vaginal hysterectomy would remove this objection. After-Treatment.—After operations upon vesical fistulae the bladder should be drained by a permanent catheter, or the water drawn off every two hours. In operations for rectal fistula? the sphincter should be thoroughly dilated, the bowel contents kept very soft with laxatives, and the diet limited to articles which will give the least amount of fecal residue. The plan of confining the bowels by opiates, formerly in use, is not so sat-