864 AFTER-TREATMENT OF TRACHEOTOMY. possible of the trachea, for, be the case ever so urgent, he now feels assured that he can open the trachea in a moment if the breathing should cease. The trachea is next fixed with a tenaculum, introduced a little to one side of the median line, and an incision is made into it with a narrow knife from below upward, from one-half to three-fourths of an inch in length, care being taken that this incision is in the median line of the trachea, for if it be opened by a lateral incision the wound will not heal so promptly, and the tracheotomy-tube will not fit well. If the trachea be deeply seated, after fixing it with a tenaculum it may be lifted slightly from its bed, thereby making it more superficial in the wound. As soon as the incision is made in the trachea there is a gush of air from the wound, mixed with blood or membrane ; this should be wiped away with a sponge, a tracheal dilator introduced, and the trachea cleared of mem- brane, if it is present in the region of the wound, with a feather or with for- ceps ; the tracheotomy-tube is next introduced, and is secured in position by tapes tied around the neck. If a tracheotomy tube is not at hand, the tracheal wound may be kept open by suturing the edge of the trachea on each side to the skin. It is not unusual after the trachea has been opened to have a sudden arrest of respiration ; this, although alarming, is usually only momentary. If the patient's face and chest be slapped with a wet towel, or if artificial respiration be employed, normal respiratory movements will soon be re-established. A sudden arrest of respiration during the oper- ation is a most dangerous symptom, calling for prompt action on the part of the operator. The surgeon's duty under such circumstances is to open the trachea as rapidly as possible, introduce a tracheal dilator, and make artificial respiration. After-Treatment of Tracheotomy.—After the trachea has been opened and the tube has been inserted, if the operation has been done for an inflammatory condition of the larynx or trachea it is well to have the patient kept in a moist atmosphere. This may be accomplished by having a steam spray, or a spray composed of the soda solution given below, con- stantly playing in the room, or a croup tent may be formed around the bed or cot by securing a wooden framework to the cot and covering this with sheets ; under this tent the use of a small steam spray will keep the air in a moist condition. Care of the Tracheotomy-Tube.—The care of the tracheotomy-tube is a matter of great importance; the inner tube should be removed at short intervals, washed, and replaced ; a moistened feather should occasionally be passed through the tube into the trachea to withdraw any mucus or mem- brane which is present. In these cases the use of a spray of steam, or a spray composed of carbonate of sodium, ^i to gij ; glycerin, |i; water, fvi, applied by means of a steam atomizer, the spray being directed over the opening of the tube, will be found most satisfactory in softening the mem- brane and thus facilitating its expulsion through the tube. The tracheot- omy-tube is usually allowed to remain in the trachea for from five to ten days, being changed at intervals of two or three days, and its permanent removal is indicated as soon as the patient is able to breathe through the larynx with the wound in the trachea closed. After its removal the wound