WOUNDS OF THE URETER. 1128 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE URETERS. The ureters are liable to many congenital abnormalities, the most frequent being their reduplication on each side, the pelvis of the kidney being also double in some cases. These variations, however, are of little importance surgically, except when congenital occlusion results in the conversion of the kidney into a cyst, producing hydronephrosis. The ureters are often dilated when there is obstruction of the urinary passages at some lower point. The diseases of the ureter are generally masked by the symptoms of kidney or bladder disease which are antecedent or secondary to them. The most important lesions of the ureter are injuries in the course of operations, strictures, impacted calculi, and tuberculosis. Catheterization of the ureters is possible by cystoscopy, as described in the section on the Bladder. Wounds.—The ureter is not infrequently wounded in operations upon the uterus and other pelvic organs, being either directly incised or torn or included in a ligature, and a fistula forms, through which the upper end of the ureter discharges urine. When the ureter has been wounded in an operation, the proximal or renal end of it may be secured in the abdominal wound, so as to prevent the discharge of the urine into the abdominal cavity. To this operation might be given the name ureterostomy. Wounds of the ureter have been treated successfully by suture even in cases of circu- lar division, a catheter being placed in the canal and pushed down into the bladder and the divided ends united over it, or a lateral implantation of the upper into the lower end being made. Ureteral fistula has often been treated by the removal of the kidney, the healthy kidney being sacrificed in order to rid the patient of the annoy- ance of the urinary discharge, but recently successful attempts have been made to save the kidney by grafting the ureter into the bladder or even by closing the fistulous opening by uniting the divided ends of the ureter. Grafting into the rectum is feasible, but is likely to result in pyelitis from ascending infection, and is not to be recommended. Stricture of the ureter may be the result of inflammatory processes, but is most frequently due to a bend in the duct caused by a displaced kidney. These cases seldom come under the care of the surgeon until a hydronephrosis has been produced and the kidney is too far destroyed to admit of saving it by treatment. Strictures have been successfully dilated by instruments introduced from the bladder by cystoscopy, or even from above after nephrotomy. They have also been divided longitudinally and the wound united transversely, on the same principle as the operation of pyloro- plasty. Strictures low down have been treated by resection and implanta- tion of the ureter into the bladder, and those high up have been excised and the lower end of the duct implanted into the pelvis of the kidney. A calculus sometimes becomes impacted in the ureter, having de- scended from the kidney, causing complete or partial obstruction of the canal. In such cases the ureter may be exposed and the calculus removed, the external incision to be employed depending upon the situation of the stone. The upper portion of the canal can be reached by opening the