126 CYSTS. cannot be completely removed, there are cases in which life can be prolonged or comfort secured by such palliative operations. It is claimed by many surgeons of experience that incomplete operations upon malignant tumors hasten their growth, but the evidence upon which this is founded is not en- tirely satisfactory, and there is room for the individual judgment of the sur- geon as to when he should operate upon cases of this description. A large ulcerating tumor of the breast, for instance, may be removed when there is no hope of a cure, in order to rid the patient of the discomfort of the tumor. Metastatic growths should never be operated upon, except for the same reason, for other secondary growths will probably be found, and there is no hope for a radical cure. This rule, however, should not be held to exclude operations for a tumor of the remaining breast after the other has been removed, because the tumor in the second breast is rarely truly metastatic, and it is to be considered as a primary tumor of another organ. CYSTS. A cyst is a tumor containing fluid surrounded by a capsule, either organized or accidental. Pathology.—Cysts are variously produced. If the duct of a gland or hollow organ be occluded by the growth of a tumor, by cicatricial contrac- tion, or by swelling due to inflammation, the organ may become distended and form a cyst. These are called retention cysts, and include hydro- nephrosis, hydrops of the gall-bladder, sebaceous cysts, mucous cysts, and lacteal cysts. Solid tumors may break down and soften in the centre, their contents becoming fluid, and the remaining part of the tumor being flat- tened out by the pressure of this fluid until it forms a thin layer, and thus a cyst may be produced. Finally, a true neoplasm of a cystic nature may de- velop, like the cysts produced in the ovaries, where the cells lining the fol- licles take on an active growth and the capsule enlarges, keeping pace with the increase of the contents. Cysts of this natnre are usually congenital, and are really analogous to the retention cysts, because they represent glandu- lar structures in which the outlet for the natural escape of the secretion has been cut off. Cysts are also formed from old hemorrhages, the clot being absorbed in part and its place being taken by serum which exudes from the sides of the cavity. Cysts may also be produced by dilatation of serous cavities, such as the bursae. Sebaceous cysts are found anywhere in the skin where the sebaceous glands exist, and seem to be caused by an obstruction of the duct, although very frequently the latter is free enough to allow the escape of the contents if considerable pressure be put upon them. The cause of this obstruction may be inspissated secretion or a cicatricial contraction about the canal. Sebaceous cysts are most common upon the scalp and upon the back, par- ticularly at the nape of the neck. They vary in size from a pin's head to a man's fist, although they are seldom larger than an egg. They form tense or soft fluctuating tumors, covered by normal skin, which is usually some- what adherent, particularly in the centre, where the original duct is found. These cysts are very liable to inflammation, and form abscesses, which may