1149 TREATMENT OF HYDROCELE. hydrocele, and an irreducible hernia almost invariably contains omentum, and is therefore opaque. Treatment.—Aspiration and Injection.—The first attempt at the treat- ment of hydrocele should always be aspiration and injection of carbolic acid. Cutting operations should be reserved for severe cases, as the injection treatment will cure at least three-fourths of the cases. In very young chil- dren mere aspiration of the contents and scratching the inside of the sac with the point of the needle will often suffice for a cure. To tap a hydrocele the surgeon takes the tumor in his left hand and the trocar in his right, his finger being placed on the trocar half an inch from the point, in order to prevent too deep penetration. The point of the trocar is placed lightly on the skin over the most prominent part of the tumor, about one-third of the distance from the bottom to the top, and then with a sudden thrust the in- strument is driven through the sac-wall. If it is intended to inject carbolic acid, the needle of the hypodermic syringe, containing from ten to twenty drops of pure carbolic acid, liquefied with glycerin, is inserted into the sac just above where the trocar enters, and the points of the two instru- ments are made to touch each other in the cavity of the sac, in order to prove that the point of the hypodermic needle is really in the hydrocele. The trocar is then withdrawn, and the fluid flows out of the canula, the fingers squeezing the sac together so as to evacuate the last drops, but the needle must be kept constantly in contact with the canula. The canula is then withdrawn, the carbolic acid injected, and the syringe also withdrawn. The pain of the proceeding is slight if the trocar be sharp, but in some instances there is considerable burning from the carbolic acid. The sac is to be rubbed between the hands, so as to diffuse the acid equally over its internal surface. Some surgeons prefer the injection of iodine, but its action is much more painful and no more certain than that of carbolic acid. When iodine is employed, from half an ounce to an ounce of the fluid is injected through the canula, retained a moment, and then allowed to escape, or a less quan- tity is used and allowed to remain in the sac. On account of the pain it is generally necessary to use cocaine before making the injection, injecting a two per cent, solution, and allowing it to escape after being in the sac two or three minutes. This is an added danger, for cocaine poisoning has fol- lowed this procedure more than once, as it is difficult to ascertain that all of the fluid has escaped. After the injection of either reagent the fluid reaccumulates and the patient may be uncomfortable for a few hours, but within a week the hydro- cele becomes smaller, and soon disappears. In some cases a second injec- tion is necessary, and in any case in which absorption does not begin in the first week it is well to draw off a couple of drachms of the fluid, in order to lessen the tension and assist absorption. If there is much pain, the patient should be kept in bed, the scrotum elevated upon a folded towel, an ice-bag applied, and morphine administered. Full aseptic pre- cautions must be taken in preparing the skin and boiling the instruments, in order to avoid infection, which would result in suppuration of the sac. If it is found on aspiration that the sac is multilocular, each sac must be