712 INTRACRANIAL HEMORRHAGE. Fig. 643. away the mass, cauterizing the base, and applying pressure by a flat metal or other plate. This complication in pre-antiseptic times appears to have had a very high mortality, but it is no longer so common or so dangerous. Intracranial Hemorrhage.—Hemorrhage within the skull may be extradural, between the dura and the bone; intradural, between the brain and the dura mater; or cerebral. Cerebral hemorrhage is of compara- tively little interest to the surgeon, although Dennis has recommended the use of the trephine and evacuation of clots in certain cases, and Keen has advised ligation of the carotid in progressive apoplexy with hemiplegia. It is seldom that a hemorrhage in the brain can be localized, even when the exact situation of the causal injury is known. Hemorrhage beneath the dura may take place in the meshes of the subarachnoid space, and small clots are then seen lying in the various fissures. It may also appear be- tween the pia and the dura, the brain usually receding and leaving a space, so that the blood is apt to settle at the base. Occasionally, however, the hemorrhage may be limited by adhesions or some other cause, and a large clot may form on the surface, which may cause symptoms similar to those of the extradural hemorrhages next to be described. Extradural hemorrhage occurs from the middle meningeal arteries, particularly their anterior branches, aud iu rare cases from the sinuses. The artery sometimes runs iu a complete canal in the bone, and is generally injured by a direct blow in the line of its course, but a fissure starting elsewhere may extend across the canal. The artery is often lacerated by a blow not sufficiently severe to cause fracture, and there are well-certified cases in which the injury has been caused by contre-coup, a blow on the right side of the head, for instance, causing a rupture of the artery upon the other side; and it is not difficult to believe that if the dura is torn from the bone by the effect of contre-coup the artery might be injured when it lies di- rectly on the dura. The escaping blood in such an injury collects between the dura and the bone, forming a clot which is usually rather large and flat, but which may attain a considerable thickness at one point. (Fig. 643.) Symptoms.—The symptoms of hemor- rhage into the brain or between the brain and the dura vary according to the rapidity and extent of the extravasation. If the amount of blood is great and it is suddenly thrown out, there is immediate unconsciousness, with symptoms of shock and of concussion, and the coma may gradually deepen until death occurs, or it may cease and the patient may recover, with absorp- tion and shrinkage of the clot. The pupils are contracted at first, then di- lated, particularly upon the side on which the clot lies, and they are sluggish in responding to light. After reaction has set in, a rise of temperature is Transverse section of skull and dura mater, showing extradural clot at a. (Agnew.)