702 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. fracture, the latter cases being caused by periostitis or inflammation of the middle ear), and the late paralysis is likely to recover spontaneously. Prognosis.—The prognosis of an injury to the skull will depend upon the accompanying injury to its contents and upon the presence or absence of infection. Without brain injury and without infection the prognosis is excellent. If the brain has been injured, the prognosis depends upon the severity of that injury. If infection has taken place, the result depends upon its extent and intensity, and the prognosis is doubtful because the infection may cause phlebitis, meningitis, or encephalitis. The prognosis of fraetirre of the base is not so bad as is generally supposed, for many cases which end in recovery are probably unrecognized. Although statistics give nearly seventy per cent, mortality for this injury, Konig saw eight recov- eries in ten cases, and other surgeons report equally good results. The recovery, however, may not be complete, and blindness, deafness, or other permanent nerve injury may result. The mortality of fractures confined to the ethmoid or orbital plates is only about one in seven. Treatment.—The treatment of fractures of the skull depends chiefly upon two considerations : first, whether the contents of the skull have been injured, and secondly, whether the fracture is simple or compound. Simple Fracture.—The treatment of a simple fracture of the skull will vary according as it is a fissure or a depressed fracture. In the first case nothing need be done, if there are no brain symptoms, except to keep the patient quiet with an ice-bag to the head ; in the second case an operation is necessary. When there are symptoms of brain trouble which seems to be due to the depressed bone, the operation should be undertaken at once. Some assert tbe advisability of trephining in every case of fracture of the skull, but we should always bear in mind that the resulting gap in the skull may make a scar which will be as inj urious as the lesion we seek to remedy. On the other hand, the old rule not to operate unless symptoms are present, even when there is depression, is incorrect, because we expose the patient to serious danger of subsequent epilepsy by leaving depressed bone in place. In cases where there are no immediate symptoms due to depression, the oper- ation may be postponed until the patient has recovered from the shock of the injury ; and it should be remembered that the depression may disappear spontaneously meanwhile, especially in children. Compound fractures should be most carefully examined, and if there is no depression any loose fragments should be removed and the wound cleansed and treated like an open wound elsewhere. If the wound is thoroughly aseptic it may be sutured, but if there is any possibility of infection it should be left open and packed with gauze. When depressed bone is found in a compound fracture the fragments should be elevated with aseptic precau- tions, as described on page 725. In many of these cases an anaesthetic is not necessary, the coma being so deep that the patient is insensible to pain. Punctured Fractures.—Fractures caused by small or pointed objects striking the skull with great violence, such as a pointed hammer-head or the end of a heavy stick, should always be explored by trephining, since it has been shown that punctured fractures are almost invariably followed by much more damage to the internal table and to the brain than would be