BORSCH'S EYE BANDAGE. 186 Recurrent bandage of the stump. obliquely down to the end of the stump, and a circular turn should be made around it, and the bandage should next be carried up the limb by spiral or spiral reversed turns, and se- FlG- 121- cured by two or three circu- lar turns. (Fig. 121.) In very short stumps resulting from amputations at or near the shoulder- or hip-joint, after making the recurrent spiral turns it will be found neces- sary to carry the bandage in the case of the shoulder across the chest to the opposite axilla, and apply several of these turns ; and in the case of hip amputations it will be found best to finish the bandage with a few turns about the pelvis. Liebreich's Eye Bandage.—This bandage consists of a strip of flannel from six to ten inches in length and two and a half inches in width, to the extremities of which are sewed tapes. It may be applied obliquely, so as to cover one eye only, or transversely, so as to cover both eyes, and it is secured by tapes carried around the head and tied over the forehead. The elasticity of the flannel permits of its being applied so as to exert a variable amount of pressure. It is used to hold compresses or dressings to the eye or eyes. Borsch's Eye Bandage.—This is a convenient bandage for holding a dressing to one eye, and consists of a horizontal strip of flannel two and a half inches in width, which is passed around the head from the occiput and covers the eyes; to this is attached a narrow strip of flannel at the posterior Fig. 122. Application of Borsch's eye bandage. portion, which is carried over the head and passed under the horizontal strip in front of the eye which is to be left uncovered, and is then folded back so as to raise the horizontal strip from the eye, and secured. (Fig. 122.) Flannel Bandages.—These are prepared from flannel cut into strips from two to four inches in width and from five to seven yards in length, which are formed into rollers. By reason of the elasticity which they