SNAKE-BITES. 224 Stings of Insects.—These wounds, produced by bees, wasps, spiders, or bugs, although often exceedingly painful for a short time, are usually fol- lowed by no serious consequences. In tropical climates, however, it is said, the stings of spiders, centipedes, tarantulas, and scorpions may result in death; and death has been recorded from the stings of bees when a large number of stings were inflicted upon the face and scalp. The fatal cases of insect-stings have generally been preceded by inflammation and gangrene of the parts injured, and it is possible in these cases that the stings were simply the wounds of entrance for microbic infection. We have seen a few cases of serious phlegmonous cellulitis, especially upon the face and hands, following the bites or stings of insects, and have also seen very serious oedema of the tongue resulting from the sting of a bee. Treatment.—As the poison in insect stings or bites is principally an acid, it is often found that the pain is relieved by the application of an alkali, such as dilute aqua aniinonise or solution of carbonate of sodium. A preparation made from carbolic acid and camphor, known as campho- pMnique, is a very satisfactory application to the stings or bites of insects. Snake-Bites.—The venomous serpents in the United States are the rat- tlesnake, moccasin, and copperhead. The poisonous fluid in these serpents is secreted by a pair of glands situated on each side of the upper jaw, and is conducted by ducts to the grooved or hollow fangs- in the upper jaw. According to Weir Mitchell, the poison renders the blood incoagulable, dis- integrates the red corpuscles, and causes wide-spread blood-extravasation by acting upon the walls of the capillaries, hemorrhage into the medulla, profound depression of the respiratory nerve-centres, and cardiac paralysis. Symptoms.—The symptoms following the bite of a poisonous snake depend upon the amount of poison introduced and the rapidity of its ab- sorption. There are often pain and swelling in the region of the bite, ecchymosis develops rapidly, and cardiac depression is soon manifested by a feeble and fluttering pulse, with marked respiratory depression, pain, vomiting, and labored breathing. Death usually occurs in from twenty- four to forty-eight hours. In some cases death results rapidly from direct action of the poison upon the cardiac centres. Treatment.—The first indication in the treatment of a bite from a poisonous serpent is to prevent, as far as possible, the entrance of the poison into the circulation. If the bite be upon the fingers, hand, foot, or limbs, a tight band should be twisted around the part above the seat of in- jury, and suction should be made upon the wound with the mouth to en- courage bleeding and removal of the poison. When it is not possible to shut off the circulation, the wound should be promptly excised. The con- stricting band may be removed at intervals (the intermittent ligature) if the vitality of the parts be threatened, so that only a small amount of the poison enters the system at one time. The use of permanganate of potas- sium injected into the wound hypodermically is highly recommended, as well as the intravenous injection of ammonia. The constitutional treat- ment of snake-bites consists in the use of alcohol or whiskey in full doses; and cardiac stimulants, the best of which is strychnine, should also be administered if they are available.