128 CHAPTER VII. CONDITIONS AFFECTING THE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND INJURIES. OPERATIONS IN GENERAL. The propriety of operation in many cases which come under the care of the surgeon is very clear ; in others, however, there often arises the question whether the patient is in condition for operation, or whether his expectation of life would be increased by the procedure : it is in such cases that the sur- geon has the opportunity to exercise that very desirable attribute, surgical judgment, which is much more essential to his success and the welfare of his patient than mere operative skill. In considering the question of operation the patient and his friends are apt to turn to the surgeon for an opinion as to the possible risks of the procedure and the results to be gained by it; the patient, in our opinion, is entitled to the fullest information upon these subjects. The surgeon should not be- an alarmist and unduly excite the fears of the patient, nor, on the other hand, should he treat lightly the dangers of the operation. Timid and nervous patients often require the fullest amount of encouragement that the surgeon can give them. We can- not understand how a surgeon can speak lightly to a patient of serious operations which he knows are often, even when most carefully and skil- fully performed, attended with a definite amount of risk to life. We have heard a surgeon tell a patient who was considering the question of having an abdominal section performed that there was no more risk in the opera- tion than in cutting the finger-nails, an opinion in which those who have had experieuce in this operation could scarcely agree. This making light of the dangers of operations by surgeons is not, we think, due to any want of knowledge upon the subject, but rather to a desire to keep up the courage of the patient. The surgeon and his assistants should remember that the patient and his friends do not view an operation in the same light as they do, and although it may seem a matter of every day occurrence to them, it is to the patient an event which is looked upon with the deepest anxiety and even terror. They should, therefore, avoid any excitement, and should proceed with their several duties in a quiet and dignified manner. The surgeon should, as far as possible, make up his mind as to the plan of operation and its various details before it is undertaken, and should endeavor to follow this plan unless unforeseen difficulties arise during its performance. He should not be led from this plan by the gratuitous advice of lookers-on, and should request a consultation only if he feels that those present are competent to help him should unforeseen difficulties arise during the course of the operation. A