EXCISIONS OR RESECTIONS. 635 is not a serious consideration. Injury of important arteries, veins, and nerves should be avoided. The periosteum should be preserved as far as possible, to gain the benefit of its osteogenetic function in the subsequent repair of the wound, and also by its preservation the attachment of muscles may be retained. A form of subperiosteal excision or resection is employed with this object in view, which may be used in operations when under- taken for disease in which the periosteum is much thickened and can be readily separated from the bone, but when practised in cases of injury the preservation of the periosteum is often impossible. Eesection of a portion of a bone may be required for the removal of a benign growth, and in such a case as much of the bone as possible should be left, so as not to interfere seriously with its function. A partial resection for the removal of a malig- nant growth of the bone is not followed by good results, and amputation where it is possible should be preferred. In cases where so large a portion of the shaft of a bone has been resected that great shortening and subse- quent loss of function would result, bone-grafting may be employed, filling the defect with decalcified bone chips, or suturing a portion of a bone of a freshly killed animal between the resected euds of the bone. When a portion of one of two parallel bones is removed, to prevent deformity and loss of function bone-grafting or the removal of a similar section from the parallel bone may be practised. In excision of joints where ankylosis is desired, primary fixation of the excised surfaces of the bone may be obtained by the use of sutures of chromicized catgut or silver wire, or by the use of steel nails, screws, or ivory pins; in resection of a portion of the shaft of a long bone, primary fixation of the ends of the bone should always be practised by the employ- ment of some of these means. In the after treatment of excisions and resections, as soon as the wound has been dressed additional fixation of the parts should be secured by the use of splints or of a plaster of Paris dressing. In cases in which bony ankylosis is desired, these should be retained for some weeks, but where a movable joint is sought for, as soon as the wound is firmly healed the splint should be removed and movement encouraged be- tween the ends of the bones. Prolonged fixation in these cases naturally tends to limit the motion at the seat of operation. Osteoplastic resection, which consists in turning up a flap of bone with the soft parts and the periosteum attached, is sometimes employed to expose the deeper portions of the bone, the nerves, or the brain. When the operative procedure has been accomplished, the flap is replaced and sutured in position. This form of resection is often practised in operations upon the cranial nerves, to expose the brain for the removal of tumors, or for exploration, and in the jaw for the exposure of growths situated in the naso pharynx. Instruments required for Excision—In performing excisions or resections of bones or joints the following instruments will be found neces- Fig. 557. Lion-jawed forceps.