iii PREFACE. The object aimed at by the authors of this book has been eminently practical. They recognize the fact that to give a synopsis of the science of surgery in one volume becomes each year a more difficult task, owing to the extension of the field of surgery since the adoption of aseptic methods. It appeared, however, feasible to condense within that limit the information necessary to enable the general practitioner or the student to carry on or begin the successful practice of the art of surgery. It seemed to them that the essential information included (1) a description of the various injuries and surgical diseases sufficiently full to enable the practitioner to recognize them when met with in practical work. (2) Full directions for the treat- ment of such injuries and diseases as would usually be attended by the general practitioner. (3) A sketch of the treatment of the more difficult conditions, such as would allow the practitioner to advise patients intel- ligently in obtaining special skilled surgical attention. (4) An outline of the accepted facts and theories of the etiology and pathology of the various surgical affections sufficient to form a foundation for the clinical picture and give directions for the treatment. Even with these limitations the material is so bulky as to require great condensation and the most careful choice of those subjects which were to receive detailed treatment. The authors cannot hope that all their critics will agree with them in the decision of the relative proportions assigned to the various topics, but they trust that the practical conclusions will be found conservative and yet thoroughly modern. They hope that the book will prove a useful guide to the student in the beginning of his work in the complicated science of surgery, and that it may also serve as a ready help in the solution of the surgical problems which confront the busy general practitioner. The authors jointly endorse the practical conclusions throughout the book, but it may be of interest to know that the senior author prepared the chapters on Diseases of the Bones and Joints, Fractures and Dislocations, the Blood-Vessels, the Chest, the Rectum, Minor and Orthopaedic Surgery, Amputations, etc., while those on Bacteriology, Inflammation, the Head,