757 TUBERCULOUS ULCERATION OF THE TONGUE. surface of the tongue, involving the frenum, is very common in persons suffering from whooping-cough, and is caused by the tongue being violently forced against the lower teeth. Ulceration of the tongue arising from the irritation of sharp or irregular teeth is situated at the lateral margins or the tip of the organ. A traumatic ulcer of the tongue, if it has existed for some time, is apt to be surrounded by marked induration, which may render its diagnosis from epithelioma and syphilis difficult. Symptoms.— Pain at first is not a marked symptom unless irritating substances come in contact with the ulcer; but if the ulcer becomes inflamed, or has existed for some time, it may cause pain upon movements of the tongue, and may render the taking of food difficult. More or less discharge is apt to occur from the ulcerated surface and causes the mouth to become foul. Treatment.—Ulceration due to sharp or rough teeth should be treated by filing the edges of the offending teeth, or by their removal, and the application of a ten-grain solution of nitrate of silver to the ulcer and the use of a mild antiseptic mouth-wash. The treatment of ulceration depen- dent upon digestive disturbance consists in the regulation of the diet and the use of remedies to improve the digestion, with the local use of a weak solution of nitrate of silver and a mouth-wash. In all cases of ulceration of the tongue the diet should consist of bland articles—a liquid diet is best —and the patient should not be allowed to use tobacco or to bring any irritating substance in contact with the ulcerated surfaces. Lupus.—Lupus of the tongue usually exists in connection with a simi- lar affection of the nose, face, and lips, and is rarely observed as a separate affection of this organ. Treatment.—This consists in thoroughly scraping the ulcers with a curette and in the ap- plication of Paquelin's cautery, at the same time antituberculous remedies, such as cod-liver oil and iodide of iron, and tonics being administered. Tuberculous Ulceration of the Tongue.—Primary tuberculo- sis of the tongue is a rare affection, but tuberculous ulceration of this organ in connection with pulmonary or laryngeal tuberculosis, or general tuberculosis, is not infrequently ob- served. It is rarely seen in children, being most apt to develop after pu- berty. (Fig. 674. ) The prognosis in tuberculous ulceration of the tongue is always grave, and, as it is usually secondary to tuberculous affections of other parts of the body, its de- velopment generally hastens the fatal termination. The pain and difficulty in taking food cause the patient to run down rapidly. Symptoms.—The disease manifests itself by the development of a nodule, usually near the tip of the tongue, which breaks down, leaving a Fig. 674. Tuberculous ulceration of the tongue. (Museum of the German Hospital of Philadelphia.)