TUMORS OF THE TONGUE. 760 and gummatous ulcers heal promptly without much deformity resulting; but in well-marked cases of deep sclerosis, although the inflammatory symp- toms may quickly subside under this treatment, the fissured and indurated condition of the part remains as a permanent deformity. Actinomycosis of the Tongue.—This affection of the tongue is an ex- tremely rare one, and arises from direct infection by the fungus. Micro- scopic examination will reveal the nature of the trouble, and the treatment consists in thorough curetting, followed by the application of the actual cautery to the surface. TUMORS OP THE TONGUE. Nsevus of the Tongue.—This form of vascular growth occurs upon the tongue, is generally a venous angioma, and is usually congenital except where it extends to the tongue from the floor of the mouth. It usually presents a tumor of limited extent. ISTsevus of the tongue presents the peculiarity that it may remain stationary for a long time, seeming to have much less tendency to increase in size than nsevus in other locations. Treatment.—This consists in excision or ligation, but both of these methods in cases of nsevus of the tongue are less satisfactory than the treatment by the actual cautery or galvano-cautery. The patient should be anaesthetized, tlie point of the cautery iron introduced into the tumor at a dull-red heat, and the mass of the tumor thoroughly cauterized. Little reaction follows, and one application is usually followed by a cure. Papillomata of the Tongue.—These tumors, which may be met with at all periods of life, arise from an overgrowth of the epithelium and connective-tissue basis of the papillae of the tongue, and usually present a pedunculated growth without surrounding induration. Papilloma of the tongue occurring during and after middle life, particularly if surrounded by induration, should be looked upon with suspicion as probably epithelio- matous. Treatment.—This consists in cocainizing the base of the tumor and cutting it off with scissors or the knife. If bleeding is free, the bleed- ing surface should be touched with a cautery iron. Lymphangiomata, fibromata, Upomata, adenomata, and cysts of the tongue are occasionally met with, and may be congenital. (Fig. 677.) They may exist for years without producing any incon- venience, but if they cause deformity or incon- venience they should be excised. In the case of a cyst, the cyst should be dissected out or opened, its contents evacuated, and its inner surface cauterized with nitrate of silver. MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE TONGUE. Carcinoma of the tongue is quite frequent, while sarcoma of this organ is extremely rare. Carcinoma of the Tongue.—This af- fection of the tongue usually commences as a fissure, nodule, or ulcer upon the margin or tip of the tongue, but may originate at any part of the organ. (Fig. 678.) Carcinoma of the tongue is one of the most dis- Fig. 677. Cyst of the tongue. (Agnew.)