168 DRAINAGE-TUBES. Fig. 93. Fig. 94. Fig. 92. 200 grains; alcohol (ninety-five per cent.), 12 fluidounces, and allowed to remain from five to twenty-five minutes, according to the size of the gut. Then place it in a sterilized jar containing palladium bichloride grain ^ to alcohol 1 pint, in which it may be kept indefinitely. Chromic Acid Catgut.—Owing to the fact that it undergoes very slow solution in the tissues, chromic acid catgut is often of service for sutures or for the ligation of the larger vessels in their continuity. Chromic acid catgut may be prepared by placing catgut which has been sterilized by being treated with the alcoholic bichloride solution in one quart of a five per cent, carbolic acid solution which contains thirty grains of bichromate of potassium, allowing it to remain for forty-eight hours ; this immersion should be longer when the larger sizes of catgut are used, but for the sizes of catgut which are ordinarily employed this length of immersion will pre- pare the gut to resist the action of the living tissues for a week or more. Chromic acid catgut thus prepared may be dried and placed in closely stoppered jars, or may be kept in absolute alcohol. Before being used it should be soaked for thirty minutes in a five per cent, carbolic solution or a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution. A very simple method of carrying catgut and keeping it sterile consists in using a strong glass tube, about an inch in diameter and six inches in length, into each end of which is fastened a rubber cork. A number of glass spools wound with sterilized catgut of various sizes are fitted into this glass tube; one cork is intro- duced ; the tube is then filled with alcohol or a 1 to 2000 bichloride solu- tion in alcohol, and the other cork is introduced, or a test-tube and a rubber stopper may be used. (Fig. 92.) Drainage-Tubes. — The drain- age-tubes usually employed are pre- pared of rubber tubing of different sizes, perforated at short intervals. (Fig. 93.) Drainage-tubes are also made of glass: these are almost ex- clusively used in abdominal surgery. (Fig. 94.) Glass drainage-tubes can be sterilized by boiling. Eubber drainage-tubes may also be sterilized by boiling for five minutes, but if kept in boiling water for any greater length of time they are destroyed. After being removed from the boiling water the tubes should be placed in a five per cent, carbolic solution or 1 to 1000 bichloride solution for thirty minutes before being used. Capillary drainage is often employed in wounds, and is obtained by the use of a number of strands of catgut or of horse-hair. When used for this purpose, great care should be taken that the sterilization of the material is complete. x. Catgut-carrier. Rubber drainage-tube. Glass drainage-tube.