554 CAUSES OF DISLOCATION. paralysis of the muscles holding the bones in contact; and congenital, when present in the joints at birth. Dislocations may also be classified as simple, when the displaced articular surfaces of the bones are not exposed to the air by a wound in the soft parts; compound, when the displaced ends of the bones are exposed to the air by a wound of the overlying soft parts, produced either by the force which caused the displacement or by rupture of the surround- ing soft parts by the displaced bones ; and complicated, when in addition to the displacement of the bones there is a fracture involving one or both of the displaced bones, or laceration of an important artery, vein, or nerve. A primitive dislocation is one in which the bones remain in the position in which they were first thrown by the luxating force, while in a secondary or consecutive dislocation the original position of the displaced bone is changed, by a continuance of the displacing force, by muscular contraction, or by manipulations in attempts at reduction. The terms recent and old are also applied to dislocations. A recent dislocation is one in which no marked inflammatory changes have occurred in the articulating surface of the bones or in the surrounding tissues. An old dislocation is one in which changes have occurred in the articular surfaces of the bones and the surrounding tissues. The terms recent and old are not used to indicate the time which has elapsed since the receipt of the injury, but rather the rapidity with •which changes hindering the reduction of the dislocation have occurred ; for instance, a luxation of the elbow-joint is an old dislocation at a much earlier period than one of the shoulder-joint. Causes.—The exciting causes of dislocation are violence, either directly or indirectly applied, and muscular contraction; the latter is probably a much less active factor in the production of dislocations than in that of fracture. Force may act directly upon the articulation, producing a disloca- tion, or may be indirectly applied, as in the case of dislocation of the head of the humerus or the head of the femur from falls upon the hand or the foot respectively. The principal predisposing causes of dislocation are : Form of the Articu- lation.—Ball-and-socket joints, from the range of movement which they permit, are more liable to dislocation than ginglymoid or hinge joints; the comparative frequency of dislocation of the shoulder-joint as compared with that of the elbow-joint is explained by this cause. Age.—Disloca- tions are very uncommon in childhood, because of the absence of great mus- cular power, the presence of epiphyseal cartilages, and the flexibility of the soft parts about the joints. They are most common in adult life, but are not common in advanced age. Sex.—Dislocations are much more common in males than in females, for the reason that males are much more exposed to the exciting causes of dislocation. Defective Articular Development.— The imperfect development of the articular cavity or the articular ends of the bones may act as a predisposing cause of dislocation. Muscular paralysis producing relaxation of the ligaments of a joint, and articular disease result- ing in distention of the capsule of the joint and elongation of the ligaments, are predisposing causes of dislocation. Symptoms.—The most prominent symptoms of dislocation are: Change in the Shape of the Articulation.—This is caused by the change in the