MALIGNANT GROWTHS OF THE RECTUM. 1032 cause the surgeon to suspect the presence of polypus. An examination of the rectum with the finger or w ith a speculum will locate the growth. The use of an enema before the examination is of advantage, as it empties the rectum of fecal matter and tends to bring the polypus nearer the anus. Treatment.—The patient shoidd be anaesthetized, and, after stretching the sphincter, if the polypus has a fairly long pedicle it comes into view j the use of the speculum may be required to expose it if it has a short pedicle or is attached to a high portion of the rectal wall. If the growth is small and well pedunculated it may be grasped with forceps and twisted off, as the bleeding is not often troublesome, or its pedicle may be divided and the actual cautery or nitric acid applied to the stump. Ligation of the pedicle near its origin from the rectal wall is, however, the safest procedure before the pedicle is divided. Care should be taken not to make so much traction upon the pedicle as to invert the rectal wall at its point of attachment, for if this were done it might be included in the ligature or incision. If multiple polypi exist, the same procedure is repeated for each growth. When the growths are sessile and involve a considerable portion of the rectal walls, they should be removed by curetting, and the surface left should be lightly touched with the actual cautery or nitric acid. The after-treatment, if the growths are numerous or involve a large surface of the rectum, consists in the use of an opium suppository and rest in bed for a few days, the bowels being kept in a soluble condition. MALIGNANT GROWTHS OF THE RECTUM (CANCER). Malignant growths of the rectuni vary considerably in their characters, and may present themselves as epithelioma of the squamous type, which has its origin in the skin or the mucous membrane of the anus and spreads to the rectum; columnar- celled epithelioma, sometimes described as ma- lignant adenoma, which arises from the mucous membrane of the rectum (Fig. 822) and is the most common variety ; sdrrhus, or hard cancer, which infiltrates the submucous connective tissue of the rectum ; colloid, or alveolar cancer, which has its origin in the follicles of Lieber- kiihn, or the rectal crypts; and encephaloid, which develops in the glandular tissue of the mucous membrane. Sarcomata are also met with in the rectum, but they are much less fre- quent than the various forms of cancer. Sar- coma of the melanotic type has been observed. Symptoms.—The symptoms of rectal can- cer vary greatly in individual cases, and often resemble those of hemorrhoids, but the most frequent symptom is diarrhoea, which is often the earliest to attract attention, and which may alternate with constipation or the escape of small, firm, fecal masses resem- bling sheep's feces. Any case of chronic diarrhoea in the adult should be Fig. 822. Malignant adenoma of the rectum. (Agnew.)