1195 DIAGNOSIS OF FIBROID TUMOR OF THE UTERUS. rectum, or other abdominal organs, especially when the tumor is large or becomes impacted in the pelvis. Fibroids may give rise to neuralgia, espe- cially sciatica, by pressure on the nerves, and the interstitial or submucous tumors may cause backache and colicky uterine pains, especially at the menstrual periods. They also occasion hemorrhages from the uterus, at first a mere menorrhagia, but afterwards metrorrhagia as well. If they become inflamed or slough, a septic condition may be produced. The presence of a submucous fibroid is to be suspected from the abundant hemorrhage, that from the subperitoneal fibroids not being so marked. Quite common is the discharge of a serous fluid from the uterus, which may be very abundant and may be evacuated in gushes. It may be odorless or offensive. While a subperitoneal fibroid, or even an internal tumor, is no impediment to conception, the majority of women with fibroids are sterile, and when conception takes place miscarriage is very frequent. Diagnosis.—Examination reveals a rather globular tumor, more or less firmly attached to the uterus, following the movements of the latter and drawing the organ with it when it moves, usually freely movable in the ab- domen, often lobular or multiple, hard to the touch, and prominent below in the pelvis or above in the abdomen, according to the direction of its growth. When cystic degeneration takes place the tumor usually reaches the largest size and grows more rapidly than otherwise. Examination of the uterus with the sound will usually show that the canal is longer than it should be, the uterus having taken on a certain amount of growth or else having been elongated by the growth of the tumor to which it is adherent. The infra-uterine tumors may be felt by the finger if the cervix is dilated, and sometimes they protrude into the vagina, hanging by a long pedicle from the interior of the uterus. Examination of the interior of the uterus with the sound will sometimes give a clue, for the point where the pedicle is attached to the outer wall may be distinctly felt with the instru- ment. Palpation of the round ligaments, the tubes, and the ovaries is sometimes possible, and enables one to determine the side from which the tumor has developed and its relations to the fundus. In the ordinary cases the diagnosis is easy, on account of the large size, free mobility, and hardness of the tumor, the hemorrhages, and the dis- placement of the uterus. The origin of the tumor in the pelvis and its attachments indicate its connection with the genitals. Percussion reveals a central area of dulness extending from the pubes up towards the umbili- cus, and the sides of the abdomen are resonant unless ascites is present. It is distinguished from solid tumors of the ovary by its attachment to the uterus, but a fibro-cystic tumor may not be easy to differentiate from a large ovarian cyst, although it is usually of rather unequal consistency, some parts still remaining firm and hard. The shape of the abdomen is also different, being less full near the pubes and more pointed above, and the projection of more than one nodule of the tumor may be evident instead of an even, globular extension. The uterus rises into the abdomen only in dis- tention from retained menses, in fibroids, and in pregnancy. The first is seen only before puberty, but particular pains must be taken to exclude the possibility of pregnancy. Fibroid tumors are hard if solid and tense if