LIGATION OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 378 Operation.—A V-shaped incision is made, each branch of which is two and a half or three inches in length. One incision lies over the anterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, the other is parallel to and a little above the clavicle (Fig. 283, g) ; the incisions are carried down to the su- perficial fascia, and the flap is dis- sected up. If the anterior jugular vein is met with, it should be dis- placed or ligatured. The sternal and a portion of the clavicular attach- ments of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle are next divided upon a direc- tor ; the sterno-thyroid. and sterno- hyoid muscles and the middle cer- vical fascia are next exposed, covered by the thyroid veins. These are pressed aside, and the outer fibres of the sterno hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are divided, the thyroid veins being displaced, and upon tearing Line of incision for ligation of—7, innominate through the fascia with a director the artery; h, common carotid artery; i, superior thy- common carotid is exposed and traced roid and vertebral arteries ; j, lingual ; /. subclavian i artery; e, axillary artery below the clavicle. down to the innominate artery. The most difficult part of the operation is the safe isolation of the artery, which is accomplished by pressing the in- nominate veins against the sternum with the finger and separating the artery from its sheath about half an inch below its bifurcation. The aneurismal needle should be passed around the vessel from the outer side, so as to avoid the right innominate vein, the pneumogastric nerve, and the pleura. Ligation of the Common Carotid Artery.—The right primitive carotid artery has its origin from the innominate, and the left from the arch of the aorta: the surgical relations, therefore, of the two vessels are not identi- cal in their thoracic portions. The carotid artery on the right side is shorter than the one on the left; the left carotid passes obliquely from its origin into the neck in front of the trachea, oesophagus, and thoracic duct, the left in- nominate vein, the thymus gland, and the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles being in front; on the right of the vessel lies the innominate artery, and on the left the left subclavian artery and pneumogastric nerve. The surgical anatomy of the carotid arteries after they have entered the neck is identical. The carotid artery, commencing at the sterno-clavicular articu- lation, passes upward and backward, and becomes more superficial as it ascends the neck. A line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process of the temporal bone represents the general course of the vessel. The carotid artery divides into two branches, the external and the internal carotid, opposite the upper part of the thyroid cartilage, and the vessel is crossed by the omo hyoid muscle about its middle, opposite the cricoid cartilage. The important structures iu proximity to the common carotid Fig. 283.