261 CHAPTER XIII. AMPUTATION. The term amputation at the present time is generally restricted to the operation for the removal of a part or the whole of a limb. A limb may be amputated through its bones or through its joints ; the former operation is known as an amputation in the continuity of the limb, the latter as an oper- ation in the contiguity, or as a disarticulation. Amputation is now much less frequently resorted to than formerly, since the general introduction of asep- sis in the treatment of wounds, and also from the fact that in many injuries involving joints the more conservative operation of excision is practised with success. In the lower extremity amputation is more frequently re- quired than in the upper extremity; in the latter the very free collateral circulation and the limited disability which follows shortening render ex- cision and resection often more advisable than amputation. Conditions requiring Amputation.—Compound Fractures and Dislocations.—These injuries are common accidents and often demand am- putation. Extensive comminution and loss of bone, especially in the lower extremity, is an indication for amputation. Avulsion of a Limb.—When a limb is torn or crushed off by machinery, by the wheels of wagons or rail- road-cars, although the part may have been removed or may be only hang- ing by a few shreds of skin, muscle, or tendon, amputation is indicated to promote the healing of the wound and insure the formation of a well-shaped stump. Gangrene.—Gangrene involving the extremities, when more than a localized superficial sloughing is present, is usually a cause for amputation. For the indications for amputation in the special varieties of gangrene the reader is referred to the article upon this subject. Effects of Cold and Heat.—Amputation may be required for the conditions arising from ex- posure to cold or the destruction of a portion of the limb arising from scalds or burns. Lacerated and Contused Wounds.—The damage to the skin, muscles, blood-vessels, and nerves produced by railway or machinery accidents, or by the bites of animals, although the bones have escaped injury, may demand amputation. Gunshot Injuries.—The damage done to the bones, joints, blood-vessels, and nerves in gunshot injuries may demand amputation, although in modern warfare the change in the missiles which are employed and the introduction of asepsis in wound treatment have done much to render this operation less necessary than formerly. In these cases, as well as in civil practice, the operation of excision is now fre- quently employed in the place of amputation. Inflammatory Affections of Bones and Joints.—Although amputations are less frequently required in these cases than formerly, owing to the substitution of excision or arth-