METHODS OF STERILIZATION. 158 greatest activity. All the surrounding hair should be shaved off, and if the operation be upon the skull it is well to shave the scalp completely. Sterilization of the Feet.—As most patients do not apply water as freely to their feet as to other portions of the body, there is usually present a very large amount of thickened epidermis, which is often a difficult matter to render sterile. The feet should be thoroughly washed with soap and water and scrubbed vigorously with a brush ; or a soap poultice should be applied to the whole surface of the feet for some hours and held in position by a bandage. A moist dressing favors the separation of the superficial layers of the epidermis, and after it has been worn for a few hours it is possible to remove a large portion of the epidermis by the use of the brush. After having been thoroughly washed with a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution they should be wrapped in a towel or a few layers of gauze saturated with bichloride of mercury solution 1 to 1000. Sterilization of the Vagina.—According to Schiininelbusch, the best method of sterilizing the vagina is to scrub it thoroughly with pads of gauze saturated with green soap and water, and after this cleansing to irrigate it with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution or a one per cent, solution of kreolin. Sterilization of the Bladder.—It is impossible to employ any method to sterilize completely the mucous membrane of the bladder. The best means we have at our disposal at the present time of sterilizing the mucous membrane of the bladder consists in irrigating the organ frequently with a ten-grain solution of boric acid in boiled water. Sterilization of the Rectum.—When an operation is to be per- formed upon the anus and rectum, the patient should be given a purgative and an enema some hours before the operation, to remove any faecal matter which may be in the rectum. The region of the anus should be disinfected with soap and water and thoroughly scrubbed, and after the patient has been anaesthetized the sphincter should be well stretched and the rectum irrigated with a boric acid solution. A tampon of sterilized gauze, with a string attached, should be packed into the rectum above the seat of opera- tion, to prevent the wound from becoming soiled with faeces during the operation. The tampon can be removed by means of the string after the operation has been completed. Clothing of Surgeon and Assistants.—It is desirable for the sur- geon, his assistants, and the nurses, to be provided with gowns with sleeves reaching to the elbows, for the protection both of the patient and of their clothing. The operating-gown should be made of muslin or linen, which can easily be sterilized by boiling or heat; a variety of linen known as butcher's linen is very serviceable for this purpose. As a matter of addi- tional precaution, many surgeons and their assistants wear during the opera- tion closely fitting skull-caps of linen. The surgeons and assistants will often find it convenient to wear under their linen gowns india-rubber aprons, to prevent the soiling of the clothing by blood or solutions. The nurses, if they do not wear gowns, should wear dresses of washed goods. When the ordinary operating-gowns are not to be obtained, an operating-apron may be improvised from a clean sheet folded so as to be one and a half