505 UNUNITED FRACTURE. fascia, tendon, or nerve, or a fragment of devitalized bone, between the fragments, imperfect fixation of the fragments, which permits of free mo- tion, and too tight dressings, interfering with the vascular supply of the bone necessary for its repair. We are, however, inclined to think that the most frequent cause of non-union in fractures is the interposition of a shred of muscular tissue or fascia between the fragments, and that improper dressing, allowing considerable motion, is not a frequent cause of non-union, rather tending to produce an excessive amount of callus at the seat of injury. In the majority of cases of ununited fracture upon which we have operated we have found muscular tissue, fascia, or tendons between the fragments. When one considers the violence done to the bone as well as to the surround- ing tissues, it is not remarkable that tissues should be interposed between the ends of the fragments, and it is surprising that non-union after fracture is not more common. In view of the greater safety with which operations can now be undertaken, we think the time is not far distant when it will be con- sidered the proper treatment in simple fractures with great deformity, or in those in which it is difficult to retain the parts in position after reduction, to cut down upon the fragments and secure primary fixation by the use of sutures, as by such a procedure accurate apposition of the fragments may be secured and retained, and the risk of non-union guarded against by pre- venting the interposition of tissues between the fractured ends of the bone. Varieties of Ununited Fractures.—Various conditions may exist in the bone at the seat of fracture as the result of non-union. (1) The ends of the bone, being subjected to more or less motion upon each other, may become rounded and covered with fibrous tissue. (Fig. 429.) This variety of non-union often results where there has been a considerable loss of sub- stance in the bone, and is followed by marked disability from the great mobility at the seat of fracture. (2) The ends of the fragments may be united to each other by a more or less firm band of fibrous tissue, which Fig. 428. Ununited fracture of the bones of the right leg. (Dr. Robert Abbe.) Skiagraph of ununited fracture of the tibia. (Dr. J. M. Stern.)