59 TUBERCULOUS INFARCTION. tissue, which holds the cells firmly in place and binds the entire structure to the surrounding tissues. The gross appearance of such a tubercle is that of a gray, pearly, somewhat translucent nodule, becoming opaque and white as it grows older, without blood-vessels, firmly attached to the sur- rounding tissues, and quite firm or even hard to the touch. A tubercle grows by additions to its periphery up to a certain size, and then certain degenerations occur, undoubtedly due to the poison of the bacilli, for such small masses would not undergo these changes simply from a diminished blood-supply. The nodules seen by the unassisted eye are made up of several tubercles fused into one, the degeneration having progressed far- thest in those at the centre, but the boundaries between them can gener- ally be traced. There is apt to be some production of fibrous tissue around the tubercle, which may finally entirely encapsulate the mass. To this new-formed fibrous tissue are to be ascribed the spindle-cells often seen scat- tered through the tubercles. The bacilli in the tubercles of man usually lie in the epithelioid cells or giant-cells, or between them, but they are often very difficult to demonstrate, as they do not stain readily. The cells at the centre of the tubercle may gradually lose their moisture and form a hard, cheesy mass, or even calcify by the deposit of lime salts in the caseous material. In other cases a thin, serous pus is produced at the centre of the tubercle, and by constant enlargement and the conglomeration of neighbor- ing tubercles the typical cold abscess results. If such an abscess forms in a lymph-node, the fibrous capsule of the latter is the only tissue able to resist its progress, and the gland becomes converted into a sac of pus. Tuberculous Infarction.—Somewhat similar is the process when the bacilli reach any part of the body through the blood-vessels, for they occlude a small capillary as if by an embolus, and thence spread into the tissues supplied by it, forming tubercles, beginning in the walls of the blood-ves- sels, the entire mass being wedge-shaped, like an infarct. The structure of each tubercle is similar to that just described. This is the usual process in the bones, in which the tuberculous infiltration destroys the softer parts, and the rest of the bone remains for a long time as a soft sequestrum, penetrated in all directions by tuberculous granulation-tissue. (Fig. 27. J Wherever the tubercles are free to grow they produce a soft, spongy tissue resembling granulation-tissue, and sometimes known as tuberculous granu- loma, and the budding processes of this tissue spread into the surrounding parts. When serous or synovial membranes (peritoneum, tunica vaginalis, pleura, the joints) are involved, tubercles are formed in the same manner, but the granulations are of a very faint pink color, or white and gelatinous-looking, owing to the diminished supply of blood caused by the dense infiltration of the tissues by the round cells. Typical tubercles are found, and the mem- branes appear greatly thickened, owing to the constant deposition of new layers of fibrin on their surfaces, each layer in its turn becoming infiltrated with tubercles, so that there is a constant formation of new tissue under the stimulus of the infection. The cartilages of the joints are detached, and look worm-eaten, from the encroachment of the tuberculous granula- tion-tissue, and when they are penetrated the growth extends into the bone.