FRACTURES. 424 wire, catgut, or kangaroo tendon sutures introduced to obtain primary fixa- tion. After replacing and fixing the fragments the external wound should be closed and covered with an antiseptic or a sterilized dressing. Incised wounds of the fingers completely dividing the phalanx and completely or incompletely dividing the attached soft parts should be treated by accu- rately replacing the parts and sustaining them in position, applying an anti- septic dressing and a fixation splint. FRACTURES. A fracture may be described as an injury of bone in which, by sudden flexion, contusion, or torsion, there results a solution in its continuity. Fractures are accidents of great frequency. Bruns states that of three hun- dred thousand cases of injury taken to the London Hospital in thirty-three years, one-seventh were fractures. They occur three times more frequently in males than in females. Between the ages of fifty and seventy years both sexes are about equally affected ; in middle life they are much more fre- quent in males. ~No injuries require more care in diagnosis and treatment than fractures, as they are a prolific source of litigation between the pa- tient and the medical attendant, since it is unusual to have a cure result in a case of fracture, in spite of the greatest skill and care on the part of the surgeon, without more or less deformity, shortening, or thickening of the bone at the seat of fracture, and in the case of fracture near or involving the joints a certain amount of restriction of the motions of the joints is apt to follow. The result of the injury may also be largely due to the conduct of the patient, who may disregard the instructions of the medical attendant and may use the part or disturb the dressings. In view of these facts, the practitioner in taking charge of a case of fracture should insist upon implicit obedience to his orders on the part of the patient, and should state to the patient and his friends the probability of the occurrence of more or less deformity or loss of function, if the case be one in which such a result is likely to occur, and if he finds that his orders are not strictly obeyed he should withdraw from the case. In complicated frac- tures where a good functional result is not likely to follow, it is also wise for the practitioner to fortify his position by a consultation with another medical man. Causes of Fractures.—The causes of fractures are predisposing and exciting. Predisposing Causes.—Position.—The long bones of the extremities, from their shape, mobility, and exposed position, from their having power- ful muscles inserted into them, and from their being used to protect the trunk from injury, are more exposed to fracture than the short and irregular bones. Form.—The form of the bone is a predisposing cause of fracture, the long partially curved bones having less resisting force than the short, flat, or irregular bones; increase in the length of a bone without a corresponding increase in its thickness is also a predisposing cause of fracture. Structure.—The strength and elasticity of a bone depend upon its struc- ture ; the more elastic a bone is, the less likely it is to be fractured.