780 RETROPHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. the muscles overlying them ; (2) around the great vessels ; (3) at the lower end of the sterno-mastoid ; (4) about the submaxillary gland ; and (5) between the pharynx and the vertebrae. Retropharyngeal Abscess.—The last-mentioned, or retropharyngeal abscesses, may be acute from septic infection originating in a tonsillar ab- scess. They may also be chronic or tuberculous, being secondary to ostitis of the spine or to tubercular disease of the glands or tissues between the pharynx and the spinal column. They are rarely seen in adults, but are frequent in children, especially during the first two years of life. These abscesses project into the pharynx, and sometimes find their way down along the oesophagus even to the mediastinum. They may develop very rapidly. A child who has apparently been in good health may be sud- denly seized with great difficulty in breathing, and examination reveals bulging of the posterior pharyngeal wall, almost entirely occluding the passage. The greatest respiratory difficulty, however, occurs when the abscess extends downward and compresses the trachea. Treatment.—The older method of treatment consisted in opening the abscess freely in the pharynx, but this is objectionable, because the pus may enter the larynx and cause pneumonia or even suffocation. The cavity, moreover, then communicates with the pharynx, and is very likely to undergo septic infection. It is, therefore, far better to open the abscess externally, and careful examination should be made for a tumor near the larynx or up under the angle of the jaw. If fluctuation can be felt here, the abscess should be cut down upon and opened; and even if the abscess cannot be detected externally, an incision should be made on the side of the neck parallel with the sterno-mastoid, either near the angle of the jaw or on a level with the larynx, and a careful blunt dissection made just internal to the carotid. The abscess can usually be recognized by palpation with one finger in the mouth and the other finger in the wound, and when it is found a sharp-pointed pair of forceps is forced into it and the opening enlarged by separating the blades. A drainage-tube is then inserted, and recovery usually takes place in the course of a few weeks, unless bone-disease is present. In cases of emergency the abscess may be opened in the pharynx, the child being held with its head hanging down, to avoid the danger of aspiration of pus into the larynx. Affections of the Lymphatic Glands—The lymphatic glands of the neck are peculiarly liable to inflammation, being exposed to infection from the skin or from the mouth, nose, and ear. This infection may be acute from any of the ordinary pyogenic processes, or it may be chronic, either tubercular or syphilitic. Pediculi capitis are a frequent cause of en- larged glands in the neck, probably because of the opportunities afforded for infection by the constant scratching of the scalp with the finger-nails. Tuberculous Adenitis.—The neck is a favorite situation for tubercu- lous glands, and they form the most common tumors of this region. A single gland may be involved, but more commonly all of a certain group are affected. The infection may enter through any tuberculous lesion on the head, and chronic affections which are not tuberculous, such as chronic ec- zema, catarrh, or decayed teeth, may result in tuberculous infection of the