GANGRENOUS STOMATITIS. 750 should be prohibited, and quinine and tincture of chloride of iron should be administered. Syphilitic Stomatitis.—This affection of the mucous membrane of the mouth and fauces frequently accompanies the development of the cutaneous eruption in secondary syphilis, and is characterized by the occurrence of a general inflammation of the mucous membrane of the mouth and fauces, with the development, at points, of whitish patches or mucous plaques, due to the thickening and degeneration of the epithelium. The diagnosis of this affection from other forms of stomatitis can be made by the appearance of the parts and the coincident development of the cutaneous lesions of syphi- lis. Treatment.—In syphilitic stomatitis the local treatment consists in the use of a mouth-wash of carbolic acid and chlorate of potassium, and the ap- plication of a ten-grain solution of nitrate of silver to the mucous patches ; the patient should not be permitted to use tobacco, as it increases the irri- tation. The constitutional treatment is most important, and consists in the use of iodide of mercury in doses of one-quarter to one-half grain, and occasionally, if the lesions do not disappear promptly, the addition of five- or ten-grain doses of iodide of potassium may be followed by good results. Gangrenous Stomatitis.—Noma.—This affection, which is also de- scribed as cancrum oris, is sometimes observed in children after the eruptive fevers, and is most frequently seen following measles. The subjects in whom it develops are usually poorly fed, or the inmates of children's homes, where the food and hygienic surroundings are very poor. The special organism pro- ducing this affection has not been definitely isolated, but it probably results from infection with the bacillus of malignant oedema, or from a mixed infec- tion caused by this bacillus and the specific bacillus of the disease which it follows; capillary thrombosis results, and is followed by rapidly spreading gangrene. The gangrenous process once established spreads to the soft parts, and soon extends to the bones of the jaws, producing rapid and exten- sive necrosis, accompanied by marked constitutional disturbance, high fever, rapid pulse, and often free diarrhoea. The disease is sometimes fatal in a few days ; if, however, the patient survives, separation of the gangrenous tissue occurs, and repair is followed by great contraction and deformity of the face. Symptoms.—In a patient in whom this affection is developing the offensive odor of the breath often first attracts attention, and upon exam- ination of the mouth a spot of ulceration is usually seen upon the mucous membrane of the cheek, or upon the gums of the upper or the lower jaw. The patient shows a marked rise in temperature, and the pulse becomes rapid and feeble. In a few hours a dusky red indurated spot appears upon the cheek, lip, or chin over the seat of the ulceration in the mucous membrane, and if the mouth is now inspected, dark sloughs are found to occupy the seat of the former ulceration. The gangrenous process spreads rapidly and involves the tissues of the cheeks, and a black gangrenous patch soon takes the place of the dusky red indurated spot; the process soon involves the gums and jaws, the teeth become loose and fall out, and the alveolar process and body of the jaw become necrosed. (Fig. 669.) Pro- fuse offensive discharge accompanies this affection, and the patient usually dies after four or five days. Eecovery, however, may occur in cases where