466 FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS. Fig. 380. be employed in the treatment of this fracture. Passive motion should then be practised, to regain the motions of pronation and supination of the forearm. Fracture of the Head of the Radius.—This fracture is an ex- tremely rare one, and may be associated with a fracture of the neck of the radius or with fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna. Its existence as an independent injury has been questioned by many surgeons. The diag- nosis of this injury from fracture of the neck of the radius would be ex- tremely difficult. The treatment of the injury is similar to that employed in fracture of the neck of the bone. Fracture of the Shaft of the Radius.—This fracture usually results from direct violence, but may follow a fall upon the hand. Symptoms.—In this injury there is noticed a loss of both pronation and supination ; the upper end of the radius when the hand is rotated remains fixed; pain, crepitus, and pre- ternatural mobility may also be present. The displacement con- sists in tilting forward of the upper fragment by the action of the biceps muscle, and rotation inward by the action of the pro- nator teres; the lower fragment is drawn towards the ulna by the action of the pronator quad- ratus and the supinator radii longus. (Figs. 380 and 381.) Prognosis.—The results fol- lowing this fracture are usually very satisfactory, unless the lower fragment is drawn so close to the ulna that the callus forms an attachment to the ulna and interferes with the motions of pronation and supination. Treatment.—The arm should be flexed, to relax the biceps, and the hand adducted, and the forearm should be placed in the supine position. Well-padded anterior and posterior straight splints should be applied and held in position by a roller bandage. Fractures of the Lower Eud of the Radius.—Fractures of the lower end of the radius are frequent injuries. Causes.—They may be pro- duced by direct force, yet in the great majority of cases they are caused by violence transmitted through the carpus by falls upon the palm of the hand. If the weight of the body is received upon the metacarpophalangeal portions of the hand, the resistance offered by the antero-radio-carpal ligament to extreme extension causes a transverse frac- Deformity in fracture of the shaft of the radius. (Agnew.) Skiagraph of fracture of the shaft of the radius. (Leonard.)