632 SACROILIAC DISEASE. not postponed until extensive disorganization of the joint has occurred, more favorable results may be obtained. In cases in which profuse dis- charge and pain are wearing the patient out, we consider amputation a better operation than excision. Metacarpo-phalangeal or interplmlangeal joints may be the seats of tuber- culous arthritis, and the treatment is similar to that employed in the larger joints. Tuberculosis of the Sterno-Clavicular and Acromio-Clavic- ular Articulations.—These articulations are occasionally the seats of tuberculous disease, the synovial membranes, cartilages, or bone being in- volved. The pathological conditions are similar to those in tuberculosis of other articulations. The treatment is similar to that appropriate for other tuberculous joints—fixation and drainage of abscesses and the removal of the diseased structures by means of the gouge or curette. In the removal of carious bone, care should be taken not to injure the costo-clavicular or coraco-clavicular ligaments, which prevent displacement of the clavicle. Sacro-Iliac Disease.—Disease of the sacro iliac articulation is a com- paratively rare affection, and is usually seen in young adults, rarely in chil- dren. It may arise apparently without exciting cause, or may follow con- tusions or strains of the pelvis ; here a traumatism, as in other articulations, may be the localizing cause of tubercular inflammation. The pathological changes are effusion and exudation, with the formation of granulation-tissue, destruction of the cartilages and bone, and breaking down of tuberculous masses, giving rise to tuberculous abscesses. The contents of such abscesses may point externally in the region of the sacro iliac joint, or, passing inter- nally, may enter the pelvis and be discharged into the rectum, or may rind their way through the sacro-ischiatic foramen into the buttock, or may descend between the obturator and levator ani fasciae, reach the ischio rectal fossa, and point at the side of the anus. Sacro-iliac disease is always a serious affection, and is especially likely to be followed by an unfavorable termination if abscess and extensive de- struction of bone occur. In cases in which caseation of the tuberculous products does not occur, the prognosis is more favorable. Symptoms.—In the early stage of the disease the patient complains of stiffness and occasional pain in the sacro-iliac joint, and of discomfort in standing or walking. Pain may also be noticed in coughing or sneezing, and in defecation. As the disease advances, the body is inclined to the sound side, and the weight of the body is supported as far as possible upon the sound limb, so that there is apparent lengthening of the limb upon the affected side. Swelling may be marked, particularly if external abscess is present. This disease may be confounded with hip-disease, from which it is to be distinguished by the facts that there is fulness over the sacro-iliac joint, that there is no fixation of the hip-joint, and that pain is referred to the region of the sacrum. In sacro-iliac disease, pressing the ilia together causes marked pain. Gonorrhoeal or septic synovitis or arthritis may also affect this joint, but in such cases the disease can usually be traced to the original infecting cause, and it runs a much shorter course. Treatment.—This consists in putting the diseased articulation at abso-