372 ANEURISM OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. tised when the aneurism is small and springs from the third portion and presses on the nerves. Eeid's method and flexion have also been recom- mended. Suppuration will call for the old operation or amputation, the latter being also necessary in cases complicated by uncontrollable hemor- rhage and gangrene. Brachial Aneurism is very rare, with the exception of the traumatic form at the elbow following venesection. It occurred but once in Crisp's group of five hundred and fifty-one cases of aneurism. At the elbow it has a tendency to grow upward along the line of the vessel. Pain from pressure on the neighboring median nerve is a prominent symptom. Treatment.—Compression is easy, except for the liability of pressing on the branches of the brachial plexus. Proximal ligation of the brachial artery is to be preferred except in aneurisms high up, but, owing to the free anastomosis, it may fail. Excision is suitable for traumatic cases, and may be practised in other forms, especially when there is pressure on the nerves. Radial and Ulnar Aneurisms.—In these aneurisms in the forearm compression of the brachial by flexion at the elbow is suitable. If this fails, the brachial artery shoidd be ligated when the aneurism is deeply seated, or the sac excised when it is superficial. Aneurisms of the palmar arch should be treated by proximal and distal ligature and excision of the sac. Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta.—The most common site of its development is near the cceliac axis. It is usually sacculated, and generally takes a forward direction. It is asso- ciated with pain in the back, perhaps shooting around the abdominal wall, and gastric symptoms, particularly vomiting, and jaundice also may be present. When it grows backward it erodes the vertebrae, and may open the spinal canal and cause death by compression or inflammation of the cord. (Fig. 280. ) Retardation of the femoral pulse is often present. The cceliac axis may be involved. Rupture takes place retroperitoneally into the pleura, or into the peritoneum, or the intestine, particularly the duodenum. Death also follows infarction of the superior mesenteric artery, or oblitera- tion of the lumen of the aorta by clots. It must be diagnosed from overlying tumors and from the pulsating or throbbing aorta found in neurasthenic females. The presence of a distinct pulsating tumor is necessary to a diagnosis. When an aneurism is felt below the umbilicus it usually springs from one of the iliac vessels. Dis- secting aneurism is sometimes present in the abdominal aorta. Fig. 280. Erosion of vertebrae by aneurism of the abdominal aorta. (Agnew.)