1125 NEPHRORRHAPHY. organs. Smaller stones are also dangerous, because they are apt to form the nuclei for vesical calculus. Treatment.—The treatment of renal colic consists in opiates, warm ap- plications to the abdomen and loins, a hot bath, warm drinks in abundance, and stimulants in moderation. Opium should not be given too freely, for toxic symptoms have been known to follow large doses when the patient was suddenly relieved of pain by the passing of the calculus. If a calculus is passed into the bladder and does not soon appear in the urine, the bladder should be washed out with the evacuator, as after a litholapaxy, in order to avoid the danger of the subsequent development of a vesical calculus. When there is proof of the presence of a calculus in the kidney, the stone should be removed by exposing and incising the kidney, as in the operation of nephrotomy. When the kidney is exposed, the stone can usually be felt by palpation of the organ between the fingers, and resembles the terminal phalanx when felt through the pulp of the finger. If there should be any doubt as to the presence of a stone, the kidney may be exposed by the operation of nephrotomy and explored with a long needle. The use of the needle, however, is not always conclusive, and if the sufferings of the patient are great enough to warrant exposing the kidney, it is wiser to incise the organ and insert a finger into the pelvis for thorough palpation. If sup- puration is present, the kidney must be drained, otherwise the opening in it should be sutured after removal of the stone and the external wound closed also, a gauze drain being left in one angle of the wound. Operations upon the Kidney.—Nephrorrhaphy.—Of the many operations devised for this purpose we will describe only two. The patient should lie on the side opposite to the affected kidney, with a large firm pillow in the hollow between the ribs and the pelvis, the body being in- clined slightly forward. In the first operation an oblique incision is made parallel with the twelfth rib and two finger-breadths below it. The muscles are divided in the same line down to the transversalis fascia, which is also divided. The fatty capsule of the kidney is then opened, while an assistant grasps the kidney through the anterior abdominal walls and forces it up into the wound. The true capsule being exposed, it is incised on the convex border for the entire length of the organ and peeled back on each side, making two flaps, which are secured by sutures to the transversalis fascia on each side of the wound. The external wound may then be packed down to the bottom, in order to obtain healing by granulation and thus connect the kidney directly with the external surface by a firm mass of cicatricial tissue. In the second method (Edebohls's) the operation is the same down to the formation of the flaps in the capsule. Three or four deep sutures of silk- worm-gut or chromicized catgut are then passed directly through the sub- stance of the kidney along the line of the incision in the capsule and also through the muscles on the sides of the wound. These are left untied, and the kidney is merely held in the bottom of the wound by them for the pres- ent. The flaps of the external capsule of the kidney are left turned back, so as to leave the kidney exposed, but are not sutured to the muscle. Buried