1124 DIAGNOSIS OF RENAL CALCULUS. added to those already present. Pus is then found in the urine, there may he some fever, and the pain and tenderness are increased. The stone sometimes becomes lodged in the entrance to the ureter and closes it temporarily, giving rise to severe renal colic, which may last until the stone works its way back again into the pelvis of the kidney. Small stones may also occasion renal colic as they pass down the ureter into the bladder by obstructing the flow of urine. The symptoms may last only a few hours, or may recur at short intervals for weeks and months as the stone slowly descends. Eenal colic is very apt to come on after severe exertion, the stone being thus dislodged from the kidney and entering the ureter, but it may also occur while the patient is asleep. If the calculus is large enough to block the ureter, it gives rise to excruciating pain, with a feeling of fulness and tenderness in the loin, and neuralgic' pains shooting down into the testicle with retraction of the cremaster, or extending down the thighs. The pain may also resemble intestinal colic and be associated with rectal tenesmus. The urine is acid, often contains blood, and a trace of albu- min and pus may be present when infection has occurred. There may be a rise of temperature, the heart-action becomes weak, and the patient may faint or vomit. The urine may be clear during the attack when that from the diseased side is entirely excluded, or it may be bloody if the ob- struction is incomplete. Micturition is apt to be frequent, with some tenes- mus. There are a number of these spasmodic attacks, until the stone slips back into the pelvis of the kidney or makes its way down into the bladder, when it may be passed through the urethra or may form a nucleus for a vesical calculus. Very small stones sometimes give rise to severe attacks of renal colic, as they excite spasmodic muscular contraction of the ureter in their passage down the canal. Barely the stone remains impacted in the ureter, ulcerates its walls, and forms a urinary abscess around it. Cystitis is very often observed as a secondary consequence of renal calculi when some external infection has taken place. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of renal colic is made by the renal and vesical symptoms, the retraction of the testicle, and the peculiar direction of the pain, gall-stone colic causing pain in the right shoulder and hepatic tenderness, and intestinal colic causing pain in various parts of the abdomen. The diagnosis of renal calculus depends upon the urinary symptoms, the hseniaturia being less than that of carcinoma of the kidney and more than that of pyelitis, and upon the local pain and tenderness and the intermittent character of the symptoms. Cases with indistinct symptoms often escape recognition. Malarial attacks and neuralgia of the kidney sometimes sim- ulate its symptoms. Eenal hemoz'rhage from any cause is apt to be accom- panied by renal colic from blocking of the ureter by clots, and a twist of the ureter by displacement of a movable kidney will also cause attacks of colic. In any case in which there is very severe renal pain of doubtful origin, an exploratory nephrotomy should be undertaken, because, even if no stone be found, the operation generally improves and may even cure the patient. The prognosis of a renal calculus which is too large to pass down the ureter is bad, on account of the loss of blood, the severe attacks of pain, and the tendency to inflammation upon the least infection of the urinary