DISEASES OF MUSCLES. 411 In all wounds of muscles the parts should be put completely at rest by the application of suitable splints, straps, and bandages. Hernia of Muscles.—This condition consists in a protrusion of a por- tion of a muscle through a gap in the deep fascia overlying it, and generally results from wounds in which healing of the wound in this fascia has not taken place. The protrusion of the muscular tissue is usually marked upon contraction of the muscle, and is often accompanied by some impairment of muscular power. Treatment.—In many cases, if the muscular protrusion is of small ex- tent, no disability results and no treatment is required. In recent cases, how- ever, when there exists a certain amount of disability, the application of a compress and bandage or of an elastic bandage for a time will often effect a cure. In severe cases, where the latter methods fail to give relief, it is better to cut down upon the hernia and expose the gap in the deep fascia; the edges of the fascia should be freshened, and brought into apposition by sutures of silk, ckromicized catgut, or kangaroo tendon. DISEASES OF MUSCLES. Myalgia.—This disease, which is characterized by a painful condition of a voluntary muscle, may result from traumatic causes, such as strains or twists or slight lacerations, giving rise to inflammation of the muscular tissue, or may arise from acute infectious diseases, from syphilis, or from the toxic action of certain drugs, such as lead, mercury, or alcohol, and may be neuralgic in character. The treatment consists in putting the affected muscle at rest by the use of strapping or the application of splints, and the application of heat and anodyne lotions, or the hypodermic use of morphine and atropine. Myositis.—This affection consists in an inflammation of the voluntary muscles, and may arise from traumatism or overuse of a muscle, from dia- thetic conditions, such as gout and rheumatism, from secondary syphilis, or gummatous infiltration, from infection followed by diffused suppuration, or from the presence of the embryos of the trichina spiralis in the muscular fibres. We had under our observation recently a lad who presented a marked in- flammation of the biceps muscle, the muscle being tender and swollen, with loss of function ; the condition had developed after a day's work in a black- smith-shop, when he had constantly used a heavy sledge-hammer. Treatment.—The treatment of myositis due to traumatism and over- use of the muscle consists in putting the muscle at rest and in the application of anodyne lotions. Myositis arising from rheumatism and syphilis will be relieved by treatment appropriate to those affections. Infective myositis and suppuration should be treated by incisions into the inflamed muscle, to secure free drainage. The muscular invasion of trichuriasis requires both constitutional and local treatment. Degeneration of Muscles.—Muscular tissue as the result of inflam- mation or from long disuse may undergo fatty degeneration. In such cases the striated muscular fibre is preserved and the fatty degeneration is largely confined to the connective tissue. A more complete form of fatty degenera- tion, known as intrinsic fatty degeneration, is occasionally observed in muscular