717 PHLEBITIS OF THE SINUSES. rarily. The lesions of tubercular meningitis consist in the appearance of miliary tubercles scattered through the membranes, and sometimes massed into tumors of considerable size, or forming abscesses surrounded by a cheesy wall, depressing the cortex or invading it by ulceration. In other cases the amount of serous effusion appears to be entirely out of proportion to the gravity of the lesions found, there being no adhesions and but few miliary tubercles. In tuberculous disease the lateral ventricles have been drained (Keen) through that part of the brain where they are nearest to the surface on the side of the head, or by trephining the occipital bone, lift- ing up the cerebellum, and draining the fourth ventricle just beneath it (Quincke). Phlebitis of the Sinuses.—The sinuses of the brain are particularly liable to infection because of their intimate connections with the ear, the orbit, and the veins of the skull and scalp, where suppurating processes are so frequent, and it is from these three sources that phlebitis generally origi- nates. The pathological changes are similar to those of phlebitis elsewhere, the endothelium is thickened, there is a deposit of fibrin, and thrombosis sets in. Clots form readily in the slow current, and particles are especially likely to be swept off because of the rigidity of the walls, so that pyaemia is a frequent result of sinus phlebitis. The phlebitis often extends to the veins outside of the head, inflammation of the lateral sinuses especially extending into the internal jugular. Symptoms.—When sinus phlebitis complicates suppuration of the ear, the orbit, or some wound of the scalp, in addition to the symptoms of the original condition there appears some sluggishness of cerebral action, perhaps some headache, but mainly a sharp rise of tem- perature to 103° F. (39.5° C. ) or more, with hectic variations, rigors being seldom seen. If the internal jugular is involved, there is tenderness and a little fulness along its course. Operative treatment of sinus phlebitis is indicated when the lateral sinus is involved, and the vessel should be exposed by the ordinary mastoid operation and laid open. The jugular vein can be ligated in the neck beyond the seat of infection and opened above the ligature, when irrigation can sometimes be made through the sigmoid sinus and the jugular. These cases are almost invariably fatal, but recovery has followed this treatment. Encephalitis and Abscess of the Brain.—Encephalitis is a term applied to inflammation of the brain. The older surgeons believed that any injury to the brain might cause inflammation, but the modern doctrine teaches that inflammation can originate only from bacterial infection, and that injury merely produces conditions which are favorable for infection. Thus, a portion of the brain may be contused, or there may be a hemorrhage into it, and if there is a compound fracture in connection with this injury infection readily occurs, and inflammation is easily set up in the tissues, because their vitality has been impaired. It is, of course, possible that infectious agents circulating in the blood might reach such a focus even without any external injury of the head and cause inflammation, but well- authenticated cases of this kind are rare. In the early stages of encepha- litis we have the usual changes of inflammation, which are followed by multiplication of the connective-tissue cells and a round-cell infiltration,