PLASTIC OPERATIONS UPON BONE. 247 by the removal of a tumor, or a defect resulting from a plastic operation, the bleeding should be controlled and the grafts applied immediately. The raw surface left after the removal of the grafts should be covered by a dry aseptic dressing, and usually heals promptly. Transplantation of Large Skin-Flaps.—Krause recommends in extensive granulating surfaces the transplantation of one or more large skin- flaps, the granulating surface being scraped or curetted, and the edges, if unhealthy, excised. The wound is irrigated with normal salt solution, and if bleeding is free it is controlled by the pressure of a sterilized gauze com- press. The surface from which the flap is to be taken being shaved and thoroughly sterilized, a flap at least one-third larger than the surface to be covered is dissected up, including the epidermis and cutis. The flap is placed upon the raw surface, and is held firmly in contact with it by a compress of sterilized gauze, and a copious gauze and cotton dressing is next applied. This dressing is not disturbed for four or five days, and, when removed, if blebs have formed between the epidermis and the cutis they should be opened, and a similar dressing again applied. If the flap has retained its vitality at the end of a week, the case usually progresses favorably. Transplantation of Mucous Membrane.—Transplantation of mucous membrane has been successfully accomplished in a few cases, but the results are less successful than those following skin-grafting, from the fact that it is practically impossible to maintain asepsis. Successful trans- plantation of mucous membrane has been accomplished in the conjunctiva, urethra, and mouth. The growths are taken from the mucous membrane of the mouth or from the mucous membrane of animals. The surface to which the graft of mucous membrane is to be applied is carefully freshened, and the graft is then placed upon it and secured by sutures. Plastic operations upon muscles, nerves, and tendons are described under injuries of these tissues. Plastic Operations upon Bone.—These may consist of osteoplastic resections, replacement of separated portions of bone, or bone-grafting. Osteoplastic resection, which consists in separating or turning aside a portion of a bone with its periosteum, soft parts, and skin attached, is an operation sometimes employed for the exposure and removal of necrosed bone or tumors of bone, and is also practised upon the skull and the upper jaw to expose subjacent growths. In these operations great care should be exercised as regards asepsis, and when the bone with its soft parts attached is replaced, it should be sutured to the surrounding bone by the introduction of a few sutures into the bone as well as the soft parts. Replacement of Bone Fragments.—Separated fragments of bone- may be replaced, and if they are rendered aseptic may retain their vitality and again form vital attachments to the surrounding bone. In fractures of the long bones of the extremities, separated fragments may be replaced, where their loss would cause so much shortening that the limb would be useless; and the same procedure is practised in fractures of the skull, or after trephining of the skull, when the button removed by the trephine may be replaced. The trephine button or bone fragments should be placed in a