428 DISPLACEMENT IN FRACTURE. This form of fracture is very rare in the long bones, but was formerly met with as the result of gunshot injury. Displacement in Fracture.—The principal displacements in frac- ture are angular, lateral, rotatory, longitudinal, and displacement by de- pression. Angular Displacement.—This form of displacement, in which the fractured ends of the bone are at an angle with each other (Fig. 330), is Fig. 330. Angular displacement. very common, and results from weight and muscular action ; it is possible to have it well marked even in incomplete fractures, and it is observed in transverse fractures, as well as in oblique fractures combined with over- lapping of the fragments. Lateral Displacement.—This is usually observed in transverse frac- tures, consisting in the end of one fragment resting in part against the other, and may be associated with a certain amount of rotatory displacement. Rotatory Displacement.—This consists in one fragment being turned upon its axis. (Fig. 331.) This displacement is observed in fractures of Fig. 331. Rotatory displacement. the bones of the extremities, and is due to the weight of the limb and to muscular action. In fractures of the femur and of the bones of the leg it is a very common deformity. Longitudinal Displacement.—This is a very common form of dis- placement in fractures which take place in the direction of the length or long axis of the bone. In oblique fractures, muscular action and the line of fracture favor the sliding of one fragment past the other, producing over- lapping or shortening. (Fig. 326.) Muscular action may also produce longi- tudinal separation of the fragments in fractures, as is seen in cases of trans- verse fracture of the patella and of the olecranon process. Depression.—This displacement consists in one or more fragments being depressed below the general surface of the bone. This deformity is seen in fractures of the flat bones, such as the. skull and the scapula, as well as in comminuted fractures of the long bones. Signs of Fracture.—The most important signs of fracture, the pres- ence of which usually enables the surgeon clearly to demonstrate its exist-