ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. 718 the nerve-cells undergoing degeneration. The gross appearances are a manifest softening, at first of a pinkish hue, later dark red or yellow. The inflammatory changes result in the production of pus or the complete soften- ing and degeneration of the nerve-tissues. When an abscess is produced its wall consists of brain-tissue thickly infiltrated with round cells, and no true capsule of connective tissue is formed, so that, although the process may remain stationary for many years, the patient is in constant danger from rupture of the abscess or its further extension. The infection often arises from an infected wound, and in such cases the abscess is apt to be situated in or near the cortex. The presence of a foreign body in the brain renders the liability to infection much greater. Fracture of the base also affords an opportunity for infection, by opening the Eustachian tube or other cavities lined with mucous membrane. The most common source of infection, however, is suppuration of the middle ear, followed by perfo- ration of the tympanum or inflammation of the mastoid, which is apt to cause abscesses in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The great majority of these abscesses are situated beneath the cortex in the white substance, and have no direct communication with the source of pus in the ear. Cerebral abscesses are often the result of pyaemia, but they are also fre- quently its cause. Metastatic abscesses in the brain are generally multiple and of small size, and they are especially common as the result of chronic suppuration of the pulmonary organs. Abscesses are most common in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe (especially on the right side), and are then usually secondary to ear disease, the frontal and parietal lobes being more apt to be affected by abscesses of traumatic origin, and the occipital lobe by pysemic abscesses. Otitis may also originate abscesses in the cerebellum. The location of an abscess of the brain can sometimes be determined by the order in which the local symptoms appear, for if they begin in the face and spread to the arm the abscess will lie near the cortical part of the brain, pressing on the motor centres, while the opposite order, beginning in the leg and extending to the face, indicates an accumulation of pus in the central part of the brain, in the internal capsule, where it would press upon the fibres passing from these centres in a reverse order in its extension (Macewen). In abscesses of the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes the eye-symptoms may be diagnostic of the location, paralysis of the third nerve, with internal strabismus and dilated pupil, indicating disease upon the same side as the eye affected. Symptoms.—In the traumatic cases the encephalitis is generally corti- cal, and when acute it is almost always associated with meningitis. En- cephalitis complicating meningitis may be suspected if the signs of in- flammation do not appear at once, and especially if paralytic symptoms affecting the face, the extremities, or the speech are well marked in the early stages. It is very necessary to separate this superficial inflammation with early symptoms from those chronic abscesses deep in the brain which develop at a later date, whether from traumatism or from ear disease, and the latter class includes the greater number of abscesses of the brain. The symptoms of the chronic abscesses are the result of three causes—the sep- tic infection, the general pressure on the brain, and the local pressure.