178 BANDAGES OF THE FINGERS. one or two circular turns from the occiput to the forehead. (Fig. 105.) If the right angle of the lower jaw is to be covered in, the turns should be made in the opposite direction. Recurrent Bandage of the Head.—In applying this bandage the initial extremity of the roller is placed upon the lower part of the forehead, and the bandage is carried twice around the head over the forehead to the occiput; when the bandage is brought back to the -■to1 median line of the forehead it is reversed, and the reversed turn is held by the finger of the left hand while the roller is carried from the top of the head along the sagittal suture to a point just below the occipital protuberance ; it is here reversed,, and the reverse is held by an assistant while the roller is carried back to the forehead in an elliptical course; these turns, each cover- ing in two-thirds of the preceding turn, are repeated with successive reverses at the forehead and occiput until one side of the head is completely covered in, when Recurrent bandage ot the head. . . a circular turn is made over the forehead to the occiput to hold the reverses in place. The opposite side of the head is next covered in by elliptical reversed turns made in the same manner, turns being carried around the head from the forehead to the occiput to fix the previous turns. Pins should be applied at the forehead and the occiput at the points where the reversed turns concentrate. (Fig. 106.) The recur- rent bandage of the head may be applied by making transverse turns, form- ing a transverse recurrent bandage. Spiral Bandage of the Finger.—In applying this bandage the initial extremity of the roller is secured by two or three turns around the wrist, and the bandage is carried obliquely across the back of the hand to the base of the finger to be covered in, and next to its tip by oblique turns; a circular turn is then made, and the finger is covered by ascend- ing spiral or spiral reversed turns until its base is reached, from which point the bandage is carried obliquely across the back of the hand, and finished by one or two circular turns around the wrist. The extremity may be secured by a pin, or may be split into two tails, which are secured by tying. (Fig. 107.) Spica Bandage of the Thumb.—This bandage is applied by placing the initial extremity of the roller upon the wrist and fixing it by two circular turns; the roller is then carried obliquely over the dorsal surface of the thumb to its distal extremity ; a circular turn is next made, and the bandage is carried upward over the back of the thumb to the wrist, around which a circular turn should be made. Ascending figure-of-eight turns are then made around the thumb and wrist, each turn overlapping the previous one two-thirds, and each figure-of-eight turn should alternate with the circular turn about the wrist. These turns are repeated until the thumb is com-