WOUNDS OF THE FEMORAL VEIN. 338 swelling increases, the axilla should be opened by an incision, and the wound in the vein exposed and secured by ligatures or clamped with for- ceps. In small wounds a lateral ligature or sutures should be applied, but if the wound be extensive two ligatures should be applied, one on each side of the wound. In cases where the injury is high up it may be impossible to apply two ligatures; in such cases the distal end may be secured by a ligature and the proximal end grasped by hemostatic forceps, which are left in place, the wound being packed with iodoform or sterilized gauze. Iliac Veins.—Wounds of these veins, either the common, the internal, or the external, may be produced by stab or gunshot wounds, or they may be accidentally injured in abdominal operations. Bleeding from these veins is generally so profuse that it is quickly fatal. If, however, the wound is a small one and the blood escapes slowly, the wound in the abdominal walls should be enlarged, and the wound in the vein closed by a lateral ligature if possible, or clamped with haemostatic forceps; if not, the vein should be ligatured upon each side of the wound. Femoral Vein.—This vein may be injured in incised, lacerated, or gun- shot wounds of the groin, or at other parts of the thigh. In the removal of enlarged glands and malignant tumors from the groin it is also occasionally injured. Small wounds of the femoral vein should be treated by the appli- cation of a lateral ligature. More extensive wounds require the application of two ligatures, one on each side of the wound. In cases of wound of the femoral vein, the simultaneous ligature of the femoral artery has been prac- tised in a few cases, with the view of diminishing the vis a tergo of the cir- culation and thus preventing gangrene from venous engorgement. This has been practised, but the results do not seem to justify the procedure, and we are of the opinion that it should not be adopted unless there is at the same time a wound of the femoral artery. Eepair of wounded blood-vessels is considered on page 77. THROMBOSIS. This consists in the coagulation of blood in a blood-vessel, the blood-clot remaining at its point of origin. A thrombus is the blood-clot which forms in a blood-vessel during life. Thrombosis may involve either arteries or veins, and the occlusion of the vessel by the thrombus may be partial or complete, and is an essential process in the arrest of hemorrhage. Causes.—When the white blood-corpuscles or the blood-plaques lose their vitality, or are brought into contact with devitalized tissue, fibrin fer- ment is formed, which produces fibrin and causes the formation of a coagu- lum or clot by the union of the fibrinogen of the liquor sanguinis with the paraglobulin of the white corpuscles. Coagulation of blood, resulting in the formation of a thrombus, is not due solely to slowing of the blood-cur- rent, as was formerly supposed, but requires also roughening of the inner wall of the vessel from injury or septic infection. When these conditions exist, the blood-plaques leave the centre of the stream, and, with the leuco- cytes, become arrested upon the roughened surface of the vessel. Throm- bosis may arise from the application of a ligature, from injuries of the blood-vessels, from pressure upon a vessel by a splint or a bandage, or from