TREATMENT OF CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. 673 ascribes it to an arrest of development of the rim of the acetabulum. Ac- cording to Lorenz, certain subluxations due to mechanical causes in connec- tion with the cartilaginous and perhaps rachitic structures may become complete luxations through exertion and muscular action. It is sometimes hereditary. Before walking, the acetabulum is shallow and undeveloped, and the head of the femur may occupy any of the positions noted in trau- matic dislocations, but most commonly it lies on the dorsum ilii. After walking the head becomes deformed and flattened, and forms a new cavity for itself over the ilium, the original acetabulum tilling up with exostoses. The capsule becomes thickened and relaxed, and the round ligament some- times disappears. The gait is characteristic in double cases, being a duck- like waddle. There is lumbar lordosis, with great prominence of the abdomen, and tilting of the pelvis ; the lower extremities are short. (Fig. 613.) In unilateral cases there are much limping, shortening of one leg, lateral curvature of the spine, and flexion and tilting of the pelvis. The condition nmst be diagnosed from infan- tile paralysis, bow legs, hip-disease, and trau- matic dislocations. The history, appearance, position of the trochanters, laxity of joint struc- tures, and absence of pain are the important diag- nostic points. The prognosis, aside from treat- ment, is bad, natural cure never occurring, and much disability often resulting. Treatment.—Mechanical measures aimed at accomplishing and maintaining reduction have often been tried. They include continuous ex- tension for a long time, and the plaster of Paris dressing, but are rarely curative. Pelvic belts and corsets sometimes afford relief by fixing the pelvis and supporting the trochanters. Various operative procedures, as subcutaneous tenotomy, excision, and chiselling out the acetabulum, have been practised. Hoffa and Lorenz have done the most valuable work in this direction, ! and the operation of Lorenz, which has been Double congenital dislocation of the hip. practised by that surgeon in a large number of cases with good results, is the best yet devised. He draws down the head of the bone by extension, sometimes doing a tenotomy of the adductors, and makes an incision between the tensor vagina? femoris and the gluteus medius down to the capsule, which he opens by a T-shaped incision. The head and neck of the femur are shaped, if necessary, and the acetabulum is chiselled out, the reduction being then accomplished. The capsule and ligaments should be spared as far as possible. The wound is dressed, and the leg firmly fixed in a position of slight abduction with a plaster of Paris dressing. Up to the age of six years an attempt may be made to replace the head in the acetabulum by manipulation. To accomplish this Lorenz recommends 43