202 VENESECTION. thoroughly washed with a bichloride or carbolic solution, and a gauze dress- ing applied. Leeching.—In the removal of blood by leeching two varieties of leech are used,—the American leech, which draws about a teaspoonful of blood, and the Swedish leech, which draws three or four teaspoonfuls. Before applying leeches to the skin it should be carefully washed with soap and water, and the leech should be applied on the part from which the blood is to be drawn, and confined to this place by inverting a tumbler or glass jar over it; if it does not take hold, a little milk or blood should be smeared upon the surface, which will generally secure the desired result. When the leech has ceased to draw blood it is apt to let go its hold and fall off; if, however, it is desirable to remove leeches, they may be made to let go their hold by sprinkling them with a little salt. After the removal of leeches bleeding from the bites may be encouraged by the application of warm fomentations. It sometimes happens, however, that free Needing continues from leech-bites after the removal of the leeches. If this cannot be controlled by the application of a compress, the bleeding point should be touched with the point of a steel knitting-needle heated to a dull red heat; and if this fails to control the bleeding, a delicate harelip-pin should be passed through the skin under the bite, and a twisted suture thrown around this. Leech-bites should be washed with bichloride or carbolic solution and dressed with a compress of bichloride gauze. Leeches should not be employed directly over iufiamed tissues, but should be applied to the surrounding area; they should not be allowed to take hold directly over a superficial artery, vein, or nerve, and should never be applied to a part where there is delicate skin or a large amount of loose cellular tissue, as the eyelid or the scrotum, siuce unsightly ecchymoses are apt to result. Venesection.—Venesection is an operation by which general depletion or bleeding is accomplished. It consists in the division or opening of a vein ; the median cephalic vein is the one usually selected. (Fig. 139.) To perforin venesection the surgeon re- quires a bistoury or lancet, several bandages, a small antiseptic dressing, and a basin to receive the blood. The patient's arm having been carefully sterilized, a few turns of a roller bandage should be placed around the middle of the arm, being applied tightly enough to obstruct the venous circulation and make the veins below prominent. The surgeon should next find the median cephalic vein, and, steadying it with the thumb and finger, should pass the point of the bistoury or lancet beneath it and cut quickly outward, making a free skin opening. The blood usually escapes freely, and the amount withdrawn is regulated by the con- dition of the pulse and the appearance of the patient. The patient should be in the sitting or semi-reclining position when venesection is performed, Fig. 139. Veins at bend of elbow. (Garretson.)