DELAYED UNION IN FRACTURE. 504 the soft parts. Immobilization of the fragments by the use of splints after the wound has been dressed is a very essential part of the successful treat- ment of these cases, the ordinary splints and dressings employed in similar fractures from other causes being used. Amputation in gunshot fracture may be required in the primary stage when there is great comminution of the bone with laceration of important vessels, or it may be necessary to resort to this procedure later if the wound becomes infected, and osteomyelitis, gangrene, or necrosis occurs. In gun- shot fractures of the long bones, primary or secondary resection of the bones, with wiring of the fragments, may sometimes be substituted for amputation. UNUNITED FRACTURE, OR PSEUDARTHROSIS. Delayed Union.—A fracture in which the bones are not firmly united and mobility is present after the lapse of the time when it is usual to have firm union, is described as one of delayed union. Delayed union is not uncommon after fractures, and 3'esults from constitutional causes, such as impaired vitality, from the presence of various diseases, and from shock; also from local causes, such as improper dressing and insufficient fixation of the fragments at the seat of fracture. The fact that union is delayed in a fracture does not imply that it will ultimately fail to unite. We have often seen cases in which there was comparatively little union at the end of six or eight weeks, yet in which after a few months, by improvement in the patient's constitutional condition and the use of more efficient fixation apparatus, firm union was finally obtained. We consider that it is unwise to desist from treatment in cases of delayed union for at least six months; after this time, if no union is present, the case may be considered one of ununited fracture. Treatment.—The treatment of delayed union consists in improvement of the patient's constitutional condition and the employment of dressings which will produce the most perfect fixation of the fragments at the seat of fracture. Friction of the ends of the bone until some reaction ensues, with or without an anaesthetic, and subsequent fixation of the fragments by a plaster dressing, is most efficient. Fixation of the joints adjacent to the fracture should be practised. Plaster of Paris dressings, changed every two or three weeks, we have also found satisfactory in these cases. Bier's method of elastic constriction has been employed with good results. Ununited Fracture.—This is not a frequent complication of fractures. Hamilton estimates that about one case occurs in five hundred fractures. If union in a fracture has failed to take place in six months, the case may be considered one of ununited fracture. Causes.—Ununited fractures may result from constitutional or local causes. Among the constitutional causes which seem to predispose to non- union are fevers, hemorrhage, shock, gestation, and lactation. Advanced age, syphilis, and paralysis seem to have little effect in causing non-union iu fractures. Non-union is most frequently observed in the femur, humerus, tibia, and ulna. (Figs. 427 and 428.) Local Causes.—These include imperfect coaptation of the fragments, such as marked overlapping, with the interposition of muscular tissue or