MENINGITIS. 715 at some period of the foetal life the intracerebral tension becomes so great as to force a portion of the brain out of one of the foetal openings in the skull, this tension being produced by an abnormal secretion of the cerebro- spinal fluid in the ventricles, and an encephalocele results. By the closing of the foramen in the skull, the neck of the protrusion is slowly reduced to a narrow pedicle. In no case is any important brain-substance included in the tumor. In the formation of a meningocele it is supposed that the accumulation of fluid takes place between the brain and the membranes, forcing out only the latter. The frontal meningoceles are sometimes associ- ated with the rare deformity of lateral fissure of the face, and it is possible that the tumor as well as the fissure may be the result of amniotic adhesions or bands, rather than of intracranial pressure. In extreme cases, and especially in occipital encephalocele, the mass out- side of the skull may be as large as the brain within it, and idiocy and early death may follow. In the frontal cases of medium size the individual may reach adult life, and in some cases the brain power may be normal, but cerebral atrophy, epilepsy, and idiocy are the rule. Von Bergmann has pointed out that in many of these cases the skin over the tumor undergoes angiomatous degeneration, so that the mass appears like an ordinary cav- ernous angioma of unusual size. Although any attempt to remedy this con- dition is dangerous, the prognosis without operation is so poor that some treatment is generally indicated. When the tumor is very small, pressure has been successful in a very few cases, but removal by an operation similar to that for spina bifida is generally necessary. Inflammation of the Brain and its Membranes.—Meningitis. —The inflammations of the dura mater are of little surgical interest, although pachymeningitis syphilitica may cause hemorrhage, and some successful operations in such cases are on record. Pachymeningitis may produce ad- hesions between the brain and the dura mater, demanding surgical inter- ference because of epileptic attacks, severe headache, or localized paralysis. By the term meningitis is generally understood an inflammation of both the pia and the arachnoid, for clinically we cannot distinguish between them. Acute meningitis arises from infection through a compound fracture or other injury to the head, or from suppuration of the middle ear. The in- flammation may be limited to a small area or may extend over the entire surface of the brain. The pathological changes in meningitis are dilatation of the vessels, serous effusion, cellular infiltration, cloudy thickening of the membranes, and the formation of adhesions with the cortex and the dura mater on either side. In the later stages suppuration may occur, the pus collecting in the sulci under the pia or spreading diffusely over the brain, with a tendency to collect at the base. When the disease remains strictly localized, as is fre- quently the case when the infection takes place from an infected wound or from suppuration of the middle ear, adhesions form which may limit the ex- tension of the pus, as in similar conditions in other serous cavities, and the symptoms are less severe, although they may still be very serious. Symptoms.—Meningitis is almost always accompanied by some en- cephalitis, and the surgeon seldom sees it alone : hence the clinical picture