EXAMINATION OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. 1162 curve similar to that of the uterus. (Fig. 872.) It is employed to ascertain the patency, length, and direction of the uterine canal, and must be intro- duced with great gentleness, as it might perforate the wall of a diseased uterus. It should always be sterilized, lest an infectious endometritis or salpingitis follow its use, and for the same reason it should be passed with Fig. 872. Uterine sound with normal curve. the aid of a speculum, so as to avoid contamination by the vaginal secre- tions. When there is marked flexion the passage of the sound may be facilitated by drawing down the cervix with a tenaculum, or pushing up the fundus with the finger, so as to straighten the uterine canal. Digital examination teaches more than inspection. The best posi- tion for a thorough pelvic examination is with the patient lying on her back on a table with the knees drawn up. In some cases general anaesthesia is necessary for satisfactory palpation. The examining finger should be well lubricated. The index finger is then introduced into the vagina while the fingers of the other hand press upon the abdominal wall just above the pubes, and between the two all the pelvic organs maybe distinctly palpated. (Fig. 873.) "When the hymen is intact a rectal examination will often sup- ply all necessary information. In women who have borne children a little higher reach can be obtained by introducing two fingers into the vagina, and a still more thorough examination may be made by introducing the middle finger into the rectum while the index finger is in the vagina, the perineum being pressed far upward. The condition of the cervix, the position and size of the litems, the ovaries, and the tubes are carefully studied. By drawing down the uterus with a volsellum fixed in the cervix the posterior Bimanual palpation. (Munde.) aud anterior walls can often be examined up to the fundus by the finger passed into the rectum or the bladder. The uterine canal may also be dilated so as to admit the finger for examination. This may be done by tents, the tissues being rendered very soft and pliable by their action. Tents are made of tupelo Fig. 874. Tupelo tent. (Fig. 874) or laniinaria or sponge, and expand under the influence of the heat and moisture of the body. They are, however, difficult to use in an