OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED HERNIA. 995 are not relieved even when the hernia has apparently been successfully re- duced, a condition which may be the result of peritonitis caused by perfora- tion of the bowel, of paralysis of the affected loop of bowel from long-con- tinued pressure during the incarceration, of reduction in mass, or, finally, of the presence of another hernia. If peritonitis develops, the abdominal pain will become more marked, there will be a rise of temperature, and tym- panites will appear. If the incarcerated loop is paralyzed, tympanites and constipation will be the chief symptoms, and they may be relieved by the administration of a mild laxative or of high enemata; but if the patient's strength is failing, the abdomen should be opened at once, in order to ascer- tain the condition and to correct it if possible. Accidents in Taxis.—If too great force is used in taxis it is possible to rupture the sac just beyond its neck and force the contents into the space between the peritoneum and the muscles of the abdominal wall, or, the sac remaining intact, both the sac and its contents may be forced through the ligamentous ring into this space, the constriction of the neck of the sac con- tinuing as before. This is termed reduction in mass (en bloc), and has serious consequences, the real strangulation not being reduced. If there is a sus- picion that this accident has occurred, the usual gurgling at the moment of reduction being absent, it may be verified by finding a tumor in the abdo- men in the neighborhood of the ring which is formed of the contents of the sac, and by the continuation of the symptoms with unabated intensity, the pain in particular being increased. In such cases the tumor must be cut down upon immediately and the seat of the strangulation sought. This may be in the neck of the sac, the entire sac having been forced into the abdo- men, together with its contents. The strangulation may be due also to the incarceration of the bowel in an aperture in the omentum, or to the pinch- ing of the gut by an intestinal diverticulum or adhesion, and although these cases are rare they are probably more common than a true reduction in mass. Multiple hernise are not unusual, and there may be more than one irreducible hernia in the same individual, so that the wrong hernia may be operated upon, the strangulated one remaining undiscovered, especially if it be of the obturator or sciatic variety, for the local symptoms of tension and tenderness are somewhat uncertain. Internal strangulation or intestinal obstruction may also coexist with an irreducible hernia, and would naturally be unrelieved by an operation on the latter. Contra-indications to Taxis.—In certain cases taxis is contra-indi- cated, and herniotomy should be undertaken at once. If there is evidence that the hernia was irreducible before the strangulation took place, taxis should not be attempted. If there is any reason to fear that the vitality of the bowel is impaired, because the strangulation has been very acute, as shown by severe pain, violent emesis, and great prostration, or because the symptoms have lasted more than forty-eight hours, no attempts at re- duction should be made, as they might easily cause perforation of the bowel and a fatal peritonitis. Immediate operation is also demanded if there are local signs of inflammation, such as redness, cedema, or indications of sloughing. Operation for Strangulated Hernia.—Reduction of the strangulated