551 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. closely to the edge of the tendo Achillis, and carried across the sole of the foot to the base of the great or little toe ; several of these straps are applied, covering in the inner or outer side of the ankle. A strap is placed with its , FlG- 474- middle at the point of the heel, the ends being carried to a point on the foot at the junction of the metacarpal bones and the tarsus; a number of these ascending straps are applied in an imbricated manner, until the ankle- joint is covered in. The straps should not be applied so as to meet in front of the foot or ankle and make circular constriction. (Fig. 474.) After the ankle has been strapped as above de- scribed, the foot and ankle are covered with a gauze bandage, and the patient strapping of a sprain ofthe-^kur is allowed to walk upon the injured foot. In the chronic stage of sprains, where the restoration of function is retarded, forcible movements of the joint under anaesthesia to break up ad- hesions will often promptly restore its usefulness. In sprains associated with wasting of the muscles the use of faradism will frequently be followed by good results. Wounds of Joints.—These are among the most serious injuries that come under the care of the surgeon, the gravity of the injury depending upon the anatomical peculiarities of the joint involved, the size of the wound, and the presence or absence of infection of the wound. Aseptic joint wounds made by the surgeon heal promptly without constitutional disturbance, but a wound made by a dirty instrument, or one which becomes infected subsequently, may cause suppuration of the joint, which may re- sult in the loss of the limb or the death of the patient. We have seen a puncture of the knee-joint from a dirty table-fork followed by acute septic arthritis which subsequently required amputation of the thigh. Symptoms.—In extensive wounds in the region of joints the fact that the joint has been opened can be ascertained by inspection, but in small gunshot or punctured wounds it is often difficult to ascertain definitely that the joint has been opened. The most reliable symptoms which point to this injury are the escape of synovial fluid and the rapid swelling of the joint from an effusion of blood. Wounds of bursa? and the sheaths of tendons in the region of joints will be followed by the escape of synovial fluid, but, as the treatment of both injuries is very similar, it would not be justifiable to enlarge the wound or to probe freely to ascertain the exact location of the wound, but the case should be treated as one of joint wound. Treatment.—In punctured and small wounds of joints, the skin sur- rounding the wound should be sterilized, the wounds being washed out with sterilized water or a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, and closed by sutures or a scab of gauze and iodoform collodion, and a gauze dressing applied over this. The joint should then be immobilized by the application