1092 TREATMENT OF CYSTITIS. tion of the bladder exerts the greatest pressure on the tender and inflamed neck. The sufferings of a patient with acute cystitis are extreme, the con- stant pain in the bladder, the frequent desire to urinate, and the tenesmus depriving him of rest day and night. He may be compelled to evacuate the bladder every ten or fifteen minutes, and the act may be painful. In chronic cystitis, even when the urine is voided very frequently, the disturb- ance is not so great, because the pain is less. The complications of cystitis are pyelitis excited by the ascent of the infection along the ureters, and pyaemia following ulceration of the bladder, but ulceration is rare in ordi- nary cystitis. The sequelae of cystitis are suppurating diverticula, atony amounting to paralysis, stone, and permanent contraction of the bladder. Treatment.—The most effective treatment of cystitis lies in its prophy- laxis. Every instrument which is introduced into the bladder must be scrupulously sterilized by boiling or by antiseptic solutions; the hands of the surgeon and the penis of the patient should also be sterilized. The urethra should be carefully cleansed by irrigation with salt solution, and a considerable quantity of water should be used for this purpose—not merely a few small syringefuls. The urethra should be gently stroked with the fingers during the irrigation, so as to dislodge any particles of pus which may be contained in the follicles. It is only by extreme precautions that cystitis can be avoided, and not always even by these. In women the entire vulva should be thoroughly cleansed before using the catheter, and the in- strument should be introduced under the guidance of the eye, the fingers holding the labia so widely apart that they shall not come in contact with the catheter. When the symptoms of cystitis are very acute, the patient should be kept in bed, with the pelvis elevated on a pillow; a milk diet with abundance of alkaline drinks should be ordered (acetate of potassium, gr. xv, in a large amount of water, every three hours), and opium given by suppositories. Occasionally injections of cocaine may be necessary to relieve the tenesmus, ten drops of a two per cent, solution being thrown into the neck of the bladder by an Ultzmann syringe. Hot applications to the perineum and hypogastric region may assist. Local Applications.—Local treatment should, if possible, be postponed until the acute pain is relieved. It is then to be begun by irrigation of the bladder with warm mild solutions, such as Thiersch's solution one-half strength, or normal salt solution. Only two or three ounces of fluid should be allowed to enter at a time, under low pressure, but a considerable amount of fluid in all should be employed. The cause of the cystitis should be sought for and removed, especially if it be urethral stricture, prostatic hypertrophy, or vesical calculus. Very frequently these measures will effect a cure. In subacute or chronic cases more stimulating irrigations may be used, such as a solution of nitrate of silver, one-half to three grains to the pint; kreolin, one to five per cent. ; potassium permanganate, one part to two thousand. The urine should be rendered neutral by the administration of alkalies if it is acid, or of benzoic acid if it is strongly alkaline. Salol is excreted with the urine, and its administration in full doses by the mouth is an excellent method of obtaining a partial sterilization of that fluid.