COMPOUND DISLOCATIONS. 557 Complicated Dislocations.—A serious complication of dislocation is the occurrence of a fracture in the same bone. In such cases an anaesthetic should be administered, and, if the shaft of the bone has been fractured, the fragments at the seat of fracture should be fixed with splints or a plaster of Paris dressing, while manipulations are made to reduce the dislocation. When this has been accomplished, an appropriate dressing should be applied for the fracture. Should the fracture occur so near the extremity of the bone that the fixation of the fragments is impossible, attempts to reduce the dis- placed bone should be made by manipulation, and when this has been accom- plished the dressing for the fracture should be applied. Wounds of blood- vessels and nerves complicating dislocations should be treated upon general principles. Compound Dislocations.—In this variety of dislocation the end or ends of the displaced bones are exposed to the air through a wound in the soft parts, and the existence of such a wound increases very materially the gravity of the injury. Compound dislocations may result from force applied from without lacerating the tissues and exposing the displaced bones in the wound, or more frequently from the luxated bone being driven through the soft parts and skin from within, and are much rarer than compound fractures. Hamilton, in a collection of one hundred and sixty-six dislocations, records eight only as compound. They are often complicated with a fracture of the ends of the displaced bones, or rupture of important blood-vessels and nerves. Treatment.—Formerly compound dislocations of the larger joints were followed by so great a mortality under conservative methods of treatment that they were considered cases in which primary amputation was urgently indicated. Amputation is now rarely employed, except in cases complicated by laceration of the soft parts and of important blood-vessels, as it is often possible to save the limb and preserve the function of the joint. The treatment in any compound dislocation depends largely upon the amount of laceration of the soft parts, the condition of the large blood- vessels at or near the seat of injury, and the existence of a fracture at the ends of the displaced bones. In a compound dislocation in which the injury to the blood-vessels and soft parts or bone is not extensive, the pro- truding bone or bones, as well as the wound, should be carefully steril- ized, the reduction accomplished, the wound drained and dressed with a copious antiseptic dressing, and the part put at rest upon a splint or fixed by a plaster of Paris dressing. In the smaller articulations, such as those of the fingers and toes, the results of this method of treatment are usually satisfactory. In the case of compoiuid dislocations of the larger joints, some diversity of opinion exists among surgeons as to whether it is wiser to reduce the dislocation and close the wound, or to excise, either partially or completely, the ends of the displaced bones. We think the judgment of most surgeons now is in favor of sterilization of the ends of the bones and the wound, of reducing the dislocation and introducing drainage, and, after applying an antiseptic dressing, fixing the parts by splints or the plaster of Paris dressing. Tenotomy of resisting tendons will often facilitate the reduction of compound dislocations, and subsequently favors immobiliza- tion of the parts. In compound dislocations where there is a fracture of