1097 TREATMENT OF HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. Fig. 839. Fig. 840. Fig. 841. of pressure. After the surgeon lias established this method of treatment, and the bladder has been sufficiently " hardened" to resist slight infection, the patient should be taught to pass the catheter himself in as aseptic a manner as possible. He should be warned to be regular in its use, because a single over-distention of the bladder may cause a return of all the acute symptoms. Such patients may live in com- fort for ten years or more. In some cases, indeed, this treatment results in reducing the size of the gland as soon as the bladder is regularly evacuated, by dimin- ishing the pressure which inter- feres with its circulation, and the power of micturition may be almost completely regained. In cases in which the obstruction is not yet complete, the symptoms of frequent micturition and some residual urine being present, but without overflow, the use of the catheter once or twice a day to free the bladder of residual urine, with irrigation if there is a mild cystitis, is sufficient. In cases of over-distention, however, the obstruction will usually be found to be complete as soon as the increased pressure has been re- moved, and voluntary micturi- tion will be impossible, at least for a long time. Sometimes con- siderable improvement can be obtained by simply dilating the urethra thoroughly by the pas- sage of a large sound. Castration, and Ligature of the Vasa Deferentia.—Attempts to re- duce the size of the prostate by castration have recently been made with excellent success. In some cases, indeed, it has been reported that a patient who had not been able to pass water voluntarily for a long period of time was able to do so a few hours after the operation. It is difficult to explain such cases by any reasonable theory, the most probable being that the re- moval of sexual stimulus and the rest in bed have relieved the congestion of the gland and caused immediate atrophy of the epithelium and thus reduced its size. But there can be no cpiestion that a real atrophy of the gland is produced and that a permanent cure is effected by the operation. The operation in elderly persons, however, is serious, and many deaths have fol- lowed. These deaths appear to be the result of shock or of the confinement to bed, which is liable to cause hypostatic pneumonia or senile dementia. Mercier's eoude catheter. French bougie catheter.