872 REMOVAL OF INTUBATION-TUBES. In young patients, in whom a liquid or milk diet is essential, if the head is dropped a little lower than the body during the act of deglutition it will reintroduction may not be necessary. If, however, after the tube has been out a few minutes dyspnoea returns, the tube should be promptly reintro- duced, and its removal should not be attempted again for three or four days. In many cases the tube is coughed out within one week from its in- troduction, and its reintroduction is not often recpiired in these cases. The tube can usually be permanently dispensed with in from five to ten days, although we have had cases in which it could not be permanently removed until the fifteenth day. Cases have been reported in which the tube had to be worn for many months, the conditions in these cases preventing the per- manent removal of the tube probably being similar to those which cause delay in the removal of tracheotomy-tubes. After an intubation-tube has been coughed up or removed, the patient should be carefully watched for from twelve to twenty-four hours, for the dyspnoea may recur at any time within this period and require replacement of the tube. The surgeon should therefore be always within easy reach of the patient during this time. After intubation of the larynx very decided hoarseness often persists for several weeks, but after this time usually entirely passes away. Comparative Value of Tracheotomy and Intubation.—A con- siderable experience with both of these operations in the treatment of croup has led us to believe that intubation possesses certain advantages in the earlier stages of this affection, and that it is indicated in cases of diphthe- ritic or membranous laryngitis in which the disease has not lasted for a long time, and in which there is no marked swelling of the tonsils or pharynx ; whereas in cases in which there is evidence of well-marked organized membrane upon the tonsils or the pharynx, extending into the larynx, or in which there is marked swelling of the tonsils and the pharynx, causing obstruction, we consider tracheotomy the better operation. Fig. 751. often be found that the fluids are swallowed without difficulty. (Fig. 751.) Feeding a case of intubation. Removal of Intu- bation - Tubes. — The intubation-tube usually remains in place about a week, but may be coughed out sooner if the swelling of the la- ryngeal tissues subsides before this time. We usually remove the tube at the end of a week, and if the breathing is satisfactorily carried on for half an hour and no dyspnoea appears, its