TREATMENT OF FIBROID TUMOR OF THE UTERUS. 1198 off the ovarian artery at the edge of the broad ligament, either applying double ligatures, or applying a ligature on the proximal side and a forceps on the distal or tumor side, and cutting between them. A series of liga- tures is thus passed down to the base of the broad ligament, which is divided step by step as the ligatures are placed. The proximal ligatures must interlock or at least overlap in the tissues which they include, so that there is no possibility of any vessel being left untied between them. The vessels of these large fibroids are very large and the veins very thin-walled, so that hemorrhage is apt to be free, and the aneurism-needle not infre- quently passes through one of the veins. Having freed the tumor upon one side, the operator treats the other in a similar way, and finally reaches and secures the uterine arteries. In this last ligature care must be taken not to include the ureter. The peritoneum should then be divided across the front of the tumor, and the bladder dissected off bluntly and pushed downward ; the peritoneum is also incised on the posterior surface and stripped down- ward so as freely to separate the rectum. In this manner the upper part of the vagina becomes accessible ; the vaginal portion of the uterus is easily recognized by the touch, and the vault of the vagina can be opened with scissors at its junction with the cervix. A number of small vessels bleed in this incision, and should be caught with clamps. The tumor and uterus are then taken away. The vaginal opening is closed by sutures ; the edges of the divided peritoneum are brought together and sutured, all ligatures having been cut close, and the peritoneal cavity is thus shut off from the raw surfaces. The abdominal wound is closed in the usual way, and a light packing put in the vagina. If there is much oozing, or if infection is feared, a gauze packing may be left in place under the peritoneum and its end brought out of the vagina, which is not sutured. The after-treatment of these cases is that of the ordinary laparotomy. Formerly a portion of the cervix was left, being secured in the abdominal wound by clamps or needles passed through it, or the centre being excised in a wedge-shaped manner, and the two flaps of the uterine tissue brought together and sewed in place. This operation is now seldom used, but it may be employed when it is not easy to reach the vagina, and differs in no other respect from the operation described. Kelly has suggested enucleating the fibroid by splitting the edge of the broad ligament, detaching the peritoneum from the vessels, and ligating them in the loose cellular tissue as the operator proceeds downward towards the cervix. When the latter has been reached it is divided, the tumor and the uterus are rolled upward out of their bed, and the uterine artery of the other side is then secured with its branches, working upward, and tying the ovarian artery of that side last. The op- eration should be begun upon the side where the cervix is most accessible. This method is the easiest one by which to attack extraperitoneal growths, and, although it requires more skill, it undoubtedly leaves the peritoneal surfaces in better condition. If the tumor has grown extraperitoneally be- tween the folds of the broad ligament the difficulties of removal are much greater. The large vessels run irregularly in the connective tissue to the tumor, and there is more danger of injuring or occluding the ureter in a ligature, as it may be displaced by the downward growth of the tumor. In