LIGATION OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 380 backward to the deep sulcus behind the angle of the jaw opposite the parotid gland, into which it passes, ascending to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, where it divides into the internal maxillary and temporal branches. In its course it is in relation with the lingual and facial veins, hypoglossal nerve, and digastric and stylo hyoid muscles. Operation.—The patient should be placed in the same position as for the ligation of the common carotid artery. An incision should be made over the inner edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle from the angle of the jaw to a point corresponding to the middle of the thyroid cartilage (Fig. 285, c) ; having divided the skin, platysma, and cellular tissue, the external jugular vein is drawn aside when encountered; the deep fascia being opened, the facial and lingual veins will be exposed, and should be drawn to one side, or if this is impossible they should be ligated and divided between the liga- tures. The artery is next exposed, covered by the hypoglossal nerve and the sterno hyoid and digastric muscles ; the vessel should be carefully isolated from the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein, both of which lie along its outer side. The needle should be passed from without inward. Ligation of the Internal Carotid Artery—The internal carotid artery is seldom tied except in case of a wound of that vessel, and even in such a case it is probably better, from the great uncertainty attending the true source of such bleeding, to ligate the common carotid artery. The internal carotid artery is ligated by making an incision similar to that for the exposure of the external carotid artery, and the vessel will be found external to the external carotid artery in relation with the superior thyroid, lingual, and facial veins and hypoglossal nerve; in passing the needle the point should be directed away from the internal jugular vein—that is, from without inward. Ligation of the Superior Thyroid Artery.—The superior thyroid artery is the first branch given off from the external carotid artery, and has its origin from that vessel about one-fourth of an inch below the great horn of the hyoid bone. The vessel passes upward, inward, and downward before entering the thyroid body. Operation.—An incision is made about three inches in length and along the anterior border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, starting a little lower down than that for the external carotid artery. (Fig. 283, i.) The skin, su- perficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia being divided, the cellular tissue in the sulcus between the upper portion of the larynx and the great vessels of the neck should be broken up with a director, and the vessel exposed. The needle should be passed around the vessel from above downward with its point directed towards the thyroid body, in order to avoid injury to the carotid. Ligation of the Lingual Artery.—The lingual artery arises from the carotid about an inch above the superior thyroid, nearly opposite the great horn of the hyoid bone, passes under the outer margin of the liyo- glossus muscle, and runs parallel with and close to the superior cornu of the hyoid bone. Operation.—The patient should be placed upon his back, with the head turned a little to the opposite side and well extended, so as to increase the