1143 INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTICLE. the cord and suspending the circulation. In slight cases a momentary pain is felt, but the testicle soon returns to its position and the symptoms disap- pear. In severe cases, however, the testicle does not return, and the twist may increase, the circulation may be cut off entirely, and gangrene of the gland result. When the symptoms are severe, spontaneous reduction does not take place. Treatment.—The testicle should be exposed by an incision into the tunica vaginalis and the twist reduced if the gland is not necrotic, but if gangrene threatens, the testicle should be removed at once. In cases in which slight attacks occur repeatedly, the testicle may be secured in place by a suture, the needle picking up the skin of the scrotum and the anterior sur- face of the capsule of the testicle, either catgut or fine silk being used. It is not necessary to make an incision for this purpose, and the adhesion pro- duced by a single stitch should be sufficient, for we have followed a case of this kind for some time without any relapse. Dislocation.—A rare accident is traumatic dislocation of the testicle, the latter being driven from its place in the scrotum into the subcutaneous tissue in front of the pubes, or on the side, or even into the sheath of the penis. If the testicle cannot be restored by manipulation, it should be exposed by incision and replaced or removed. Hernia testis and fungus testis are terms applied to a protrusion of the substance of the testicle through an opening in the tunica albuginea, or to exuberant granulations forming upon the latter. It may follow an injury in rare cases, but is most frequently the result of ulceration, either tuberculous or syphilitic. Treatment.—The superficial form can be treated by excising or cauter- izing the granulations and strapping the testicle. When the substance of the testicle protrudes, the projecting part is to be excised with its base, making a wedge-shaped wound, and the tunica united by sutures. In ex- treme cases, when nearly the entire testicle protrudes or has been destroyed, castration is the proper treatment. The protrusion of a malignant tumor must not be confused with hernia testis. Inflammations.—Inflammation of the body of the testicle is called orchitis, and that of the epididymis epididymitis. The inflammation may be acute or chronic, and in some cases results in suppuration. It maybe due to gonorrhoea, to metastasis in mumps or epidemic parotitis or in pyaemia, to tuberculosis, and to syphilis. Orchitis is also observed in typhoid and malarial fevers and in gout, Gonorrheal inflammation may be observed in the acute stage, and may even follow the passage of a sound for any purpose years after. (See section on Gonorrhoea.) The inflammation of mumps is usually an orchitis, and causes a tender swelling of the gland of moderate size, the pain not being so acute as in the gonorrhoeal form. In some cases, however, there are high fever and great constitutional disturbance. This inflammation runs a course of a week or a fortnight, gradually subsiding, and generally has no evil consequences, although atrophy has occasionally been observed. The treatment consists of rest in bed, laxatives, light diet, and the application of an ice-bag to the parts. A suspensory bandage should be used when the patient is up and