479 FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. age from slight violence is probably due to the weakening of the cancellous tissue of the femoral neck from senile atrophy or from fatty degeneration. It is questionable whether there is a marked change in the angular relation of the head Fig. 400. Absorption of the neck of the femur after intracapsular fracture. and neck of the bone to the shaft in ad- vanced life. Causes.—The exciting cause of frac- ture of the neck of the femur is usually of a trivial nature; slight falls upon the trochanter or the knee, or twisting of the thigh, in persons of advanced age are often followed by a fracture of the neck of the bone. Fractures of the neck of the femur may be oblique, so that the line of fracture extends through the bone outside of the joint, or there may be impaction of the fragments, so that the lower fragment is driven into and fixed in the substance of the head of the bone. In intracapsular fractures of the neck of the femur, as be- fore stated, bony union does not occur, and there is often more or less absorption of the neck of the bone. (Fig. 400.) Symptoms.—The most marked signs of intracapsular fracture of the femur are pain, loss of power of the limb, mobility, deformity, and crepitus. Pain, if impaction has not occurred, is acute, is aggravated by muscular spasm, and is relieved by extension made upon the injured limb. The loss of function is marked ; occasionally, how- ever, patients are able to perform cer- tain motions at the hip-joint when a fracture is present, which probably re- sults from impaction of the fragments. Mobility in cases of fracture of the neck of the femur is usually increased. Short- ening, which is caused by the fragments being driven past each other, varies from half an inch to an inch, but may be progressive and increase gradually for some weeks after the injury. Deformity.—The displacement in fracture of the neck of the femur is due to the action of the glutei muscles, the pectineus, and the adductors, as well as of the psoas, iliacus interims, and obturator externus muscles. The deformity is shown in Fig. 401. Another marked deformity in fracture of the neck of the femur is eversion of the foot, from external rotation of the limb. Fig. 401. Displacement in fracture of the neck of the femur. (Hines.)