501 COMPOUND FRACTURES. a bone, accompanied with a detachment of a thin shell of bone. This injury is most apt to occur about the wrist-, knee-, or ankle-joint, and is probably the lesion which is present in many sprains about these joints in which recovery and restoration of the function of the part are very slow. The treatment of sprain fractures consists in the immobilization of the part by the use of splints or by the plaster of Paris dressing. The time required for union is about the same as that required in cases of fracture. COMPOUND FRACTURES. Compound fractures may be produced in two ways—that is, from without or from within. In the former variety of compound fracture the force which causes the fracture lacerates the skin and tissue covering the bone at the seat of fracture, while in the latter variety the communication of the frac- tured bone with the air is caused by the ends of the bone being driven through the soft parts and skin. Therefore compound fractures produced from without are usually more serious injuries than those produced from within, for in the former there is apt to be a larger wound, and one in which the soft parts are more or less lacerated and contused, with a conse- quent diminution of their vitality ; while in the latter—that is, those pro- duced by the fractured ends of the bone—the wound is usually small, and unless there has been damage to important blood-vessels or nerves or sub- sequent infection of the wound, the injury is not so serious. Formerly com- pound fractures were among the most serious injuries that came under the care of the surgeon, and the mortality following them was very great, many patients dying of infective processes, such as pyaemia, septicaemia, erysipe- las, gangrene, or tetanus, or from exhaustion following profuse suppura- tion; it was usual for extensive necrosis to occur in the fractured bone, which often left the limb useless, so that amputation subsequently became necessary. In view of these facts, it was the practice to resort freely to amputation in the treatment of compound fractures involving the extremi- ties. Few compound fractures are now subjected to amputation, for we recognize the fact that if the wound can be rendered aseptic and kept in this condition there is little greater risk to the patient in this variety of fracture than in a corresponding simple fracture. Treatment.—The early treatment of a compound fracture should be directed to the prevention of infection of the wound. When a compound fracture occurs at a distance from the place where the subsequent treat- ment of the case is to take place, the wound should be irrigated with an antiseptic solution, if possible, or, if this cannot be obtained, with boiled water or pure water, and covered with towels or cloths wrung out of boiled or pure water. If these precautions are taken, a compound fracture may be kept aseptic for some hours, until a more elaborate dressing is applied. If the wound is small and the skin is clean, and a scab of blood has formed over it, the wound should not be irrigated. In dressing compound frac- tures the greatest care should be observed in all the details to prevent in- fection of the wound, for the fate of the limb or of the patient often depends upon the care which is exercised in this respect,