OPERATIONS FOR APPENDICITIS. 956 made over the most prominent part of the tumor, and if the latter is low down the safest incision is an oblique one near Poupart's ligament and parallel with the latter. When the abscess is very large or dips far down in the loin, a counter-opening here may be of advantage for drainage, the anterior incision being sutured nearly completely. In operating for these abscesses the wound should be carefully deepened until the peritoneum is opened, and then if adhesions are found they should be cautiously separated until pus is reached. If possible, the appendix should be removed, as it is liable to occasion recurrence of the trouble or a persistent sinus in the wound. But if the patient's condition is so bad that it is dangerous to prolong the operation by a search for the appendix, or if the removal of the latter necessitates breaking down adhesions and opening the general peritoneal cavity when it is well shut off, it is safer to leave it and simply to pack the wound. The methods of resection of the appendix are described below. When the appendix is to be removed for chronic or relapsing appendi- citis or for appendicular colic, an incision is made through the right rectus muscle, near to and parallel with its border, or, by the McBurney method, through the fibres of the external and internal oblique, without dividing them. (See page 919.) Before separating the adhesions, gauze or sponges should be packed around the inflammatory mass so as to protect the free peritoneal cavity. Adherent omentum is ligated and divided and the ap- pendix isolated. It may be very difficult, or even impossible, to find the appendix, and in some cases it is absent, having been destroyed by the former acute inflammation or atrophied by a chronic process. A ligature is passed through the mesentery of the appendix and tied, and that membrane divided. Within half an inch of the caecum the peritoneal coat is divided circularly around the appendix, and stripped backward with or without the muscular coat, making a circular cuff-flap. A silk ligature is then tied around the mucous lining of the tube at the base of this flap, and, a clamp having been placed on the appendix distally to prevent the escape of its contents, the mucous membrane is divided between the clamp and the ligature. The reflected cuff of peritoneum is then turned down, its edges inverted, and a couple of Lembert sutures passed through it. Some sur- geons prefer not to ligate the mucous membrane, but simply to cut the appendix across, closing the distal end with a clamp or ligature, and com- pressing the proximal end with the fingers, and then to invaginate the stump into the caecum and secure the whole with a purse-string Lembert suture. The latter method is difficult when the tissues are thickened, and there is a liability to the escape of fecal contents. In some cases neither procedure may be possible, on account of the adhesions and alteration of the walls of the appendix and the caecum, or great haste may be necessary because the patient is in collapse, and the appendix is then to be ligated at its base and cut away, the mucous membrane of the stump being destroyed by the thermo cautery or pure carbolic acid, and the little cavity filled with iodo- form powder. Even by this incomplete method primary union of the wound may be obtained. When the appendix has been removed, any granu- lating surface should be curetted, and the wound may be closed without