TREATMENT OF EQUINO-VARTJS. G81 the position of the foot has been corrected by the tise of some force, the bandage being removed at intervals of two or three weeks, when, the correction being increased, a fresh plaster bandage should be applied. These procedures are repeated until the child is able to walk, when a brace is applied to maintain the correction and to allow the child to exercise the physiological function of the foot, which in itself tends to prevent the re- currence of the deformity. Tenotomy may also be employed to correct the deformity ; but, as a rule, when it is possible, we prefer to employ the methods of treatment previously described until the patient is able to walk, and seldom resort to tenotomy in patients under one year. The subcutaneous division of the anterior and posterior tibial tendons, the tendo Achillis, and the plantar fascia will generally correct Fig. 622. the deformity, and after the foot has been brought into good position it should be put v ^\ Fig. 623. up in a plaster of Paris dressing, which should be worn for a few weeks ; when this is removed a brace is applied, and the pa- tient is encouraged to walk. (Fig. 622.) In relapsing cases, or in old cases in which no treatment has been used, the deformity may be corrected by Phelps's operation, by excision of the astragalus, or by a cuneiform osteotomy. Open incision, or Phelps's operation, consists in making an incision, with full aseptic precautions, on the inner side of the foot, beginning directly in front of the inner malleolus, and carrying it down to the inner side of the neck of the astragalus. All the shortened muscles and tendons are divided, as well as the plantar fascia and the deltoid ligament. After straightening the foot, the wound is allowed to fill with blood-clot and is covered with a gauze dressing ; a plaster of Paris dressing is then applied, to be retained until the wound has healed. Excision of the astragalus is in our judgment the most satisfactory method of correcting the deformity in inveterate and relapsing cases. The astragalus is exposed by an incision upon the outer side of the foot, and after it has been disarticulated any tendons or fascia which resist the cor- rection of the deformity are divided subcutatieously ; the wound is closed, a gauze dressing is applied, and the foot is held in the corrected position by a plaster of Paris dressing. We have seen most satisfactory correction of the deformity and excellent functional results follow this operation. Tarsectomy, which consists in removing a wedge-shaped section of the tarsal bones from the external surface of the foot, has also been employed. Although we have seen excellent results following this operation, we do not think they compare, as a rule, with those following excision of the astragalus. Walking-shoe for use after oper- ation for club- foot.