WOUNDS OF THE AXILLARY VEIN. 337 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL VEINS. Internal Jugular Vein.—-A wound of the internal jugular vein is usually quickly fatal from the profuse loss of blood, and the entrance of air into the vein may also influence unfavorably the result of such a wound. The internal jugular vein may be wounded in stab or gunshot wounds of the neck, and is often intentionally or accidentally divided in removing tumors from the neck. In such cases, if possible, the vein should be pre- viously ligatured at two points and then divided between the ligatures. If the wound be a small one, it should be closed by a lateral ligature, the wall of the vein, including the wound, being picked up by hsemostatic forceps and encircled by a sterilized catgut or silk ligature ; and while the vessel is being secured firm pressure should be made upon it at the cardiac side of the wound, to prevent the entrance of air into the vein. If the vein is extensively divided or torn, both ends should be secured by ligatures. Wounds of the Venous Sinuses of the Skull.—These are occa- sionally seen in cases of injuries of the head with or without fracture of the cranial bones. When associated with simple or compound fracture, the fragments should be removed, and a lateral ligature applied if possible ; if the wound be a small one, this may be accomplished, or the wounded portion of the sinus may be grasped with haemostatic forceps, and these allowed to remain in place for a few days. Trephining, with the removal of a considerable portion of the skull, may be required to expose the wound in the sinus. If the wound is extensive, the bleeding may be arrested by packing the wound firmly with iodoform gauze, which should not be dis- turbed for some days, and when it is removed a fresh packing should be applied. Subclavian Vein.—Wounds of this vein may result from stab or gun- shot wounds, or may occur in the removal of tumors from the neck, and are attended by a high mortality. If the wound or laceration of the vein is extensive, the hemorrhage is so profuse that a fatal result will probably occur before the bleeding can be arrested. If the wound is a small one, at- tempts should be made to apply a lateral ligature, or to apply two ligatures to the vein, one on each side of the wound. If these procedures fail, it may be possible to grasp the wounded part of the vein with hemostatic forceps and thus control the bleeding. The forceps should be allowed to remain in place for a week or more, and the wound should be carefully packed around the forceps with iodoform gauze and covered with a gauze dressing. Axillary Vein.—This vein has been ruptured in attempts at reduction of old dislocations of the shoulder, and in wounds of the axilla, stab or gun- shot, or accidentally in removal of tumors from the axillary space, and has been completely severed in cases of avulsion of the arm at the shoulder- joint. In subcutaneous wounds of the vein, such as occur in reduction of dislocations of the shoulder, a compress should be placed in the axilla, and the arm should be bound to the side ; if this controls the bleeding, as shown by the fact that the swelling from effused blood does not increase in size, the arm should be kept in this position for a week or two. If, however, the 22