809 GONORRHEAL CONJUNCTIVITIS. grains to the ounce, or in some instances, if the ulcer is peripheral in situa- tion, of sulphate of eserine, one-sixth of a grain to the ounce. If the cornea becomes hazy and its nutrition is depressed, the local appli- cation of very hot compresses, at a temperature of 120° F., may replace the iced cloths. These hot compresses are useless unless the temperature men- tioned is maintained. The prognosis of ophthalmia neonatorum is always grave, but if the case is seen early, while the cornea is still bright, active medication such as de- scribed should be efficacious. A few instances appear to possess an inherent malignancy, and in spite of treatment the cornea sloughs. The same is true of cases which assume a diphtheritic type. Gonorrhoeal conjunctivitis is the purulent inflammation of the con- junctiva which occurs in adults when either from an active gonorrhoea or from a gleety discharge infection has been transferred to the eye. Unlike ophthalmia neonatorum, it is more apt to be unilateral, and the right eye is affected more commonly than the left. The symptoms are similar to those of ophthalmia neonatorum, but even more aggravated than in this affection. Gonococci are always freely present, and in every case of purulent discharge from an eye in an adult the pus should be examined for the presence of these micro-organisms. Treatment.—This is exactly the same as that detailed for ophthalmia neonatorum, the only difference being that the measures may be more vigorous because the patients are adults. In addition to the antiseptic lotions already named, in recent times, free irrigation of the conjunctival cul-de-sac with a solution of permanganate of potassium 1 to 2000 has been advocated. This irrigation should be done twice a day, and not less than a litre used on each occasion, the drug being introduced beneath the lids by means of a special laveur. If there are much oedema of the conjunctiva and much swelling of the lids, there is no objection to division of the external commissure, and even, in bad cases, to splitting of the lids to prevent the deleterious effects of pressure. The prognosis is essentially grave, even under the most advantageous circumstances, while ulcers of the cornea, abscesses of this tissue, and, indeed, extensive purulent keratitis, are the common results of neglected or badly treated cases of gonorrhoeal conjunctivitis. If one eye alone is affected, the other may be protected with a watch-glass, applied in the manner illustrated in Fig. 705. This is called Buller's shield. Granular Conjunctivitis (Tra- choma, Granular Lids).—This disease occurs in two forms, either as an acute granular conjunctivitis, which is a disease having the symptoms Fig. 705. Bvdler's shield.