321 HEMORRHAGE. In either event the danger to the patient depends upon the amount of blood w hich escapes from the circulation and the rapidity with which it is lost. Profuse hemorrhage is the most alarming and trying emergency that comes under the care of the surgeon, and its prompt and proper treatment requires presence of mind and judgment. In no class of cases in surgery are these attributes of the surgeon better shown than in the management of this emergency. The varieties of hemorrhage are classified, according to the source of the bleeding, as Arterial, Venous, Capillary, and Parenchymatous, and also accord- ing to the time of the bleeding, as Primary, Intermediary or Consecutive, and Secondary. Arterial Hemorrhage.—This occurs from a wounded artery, and the blood is scarlet in color, and escapes in jets from the proximal end of the vessel synchronously with the cardiac pulsations. Blood from the distal end of the artery does not escape in jets, but flows in a continuous stream. Although arterial hemorrhage is generally characterized by a bright red color, it should be borne in mind that in cases where the proper aeration of the blood does not take place, and carbonic oxide is present in excess, dark-colored blood may escape from arteries. This is often observed in operating upon patients who present profound narcosis from an anaesthetic, or in the operation of tracheotomy when no anaesthetic has been employed. Venous Hemorrhage.—This variety of hemorrhage is characterized by the escape of dark-colored blood in a continuous stream from the injured vein, due to the fact that there is no cardiac impulse in the veins. Capillary Hemorrhage.—In this variety of hemorrhage there is oozing of blood from numerous points upon the surface of a wound, and, although the amount of blood escaping from each point is small, if the bleeding continues for any considerable time and the wound surface is ex- tensive, a sufficient amount of blood may be lost to endanger the life of the patient. Wounds of the mucous membranes, where the capillaries are large and abundant, are often followed by free capillary hemorrhage. Parenchymatous Hemorrhage.—This occurs from wounds of tis- sues which present certain anatomical peculiarities of arrangement of the blood-vessels; for instance, in erectile tissue, where the arteries terminate in the veins without the intermediate capillary system, or in tissues in which the normal vascular arrangement is altered by disease. Parenchymatous hemorrhage is observed in wounds of the spleen and of the corpora caver- nosa, and in organs whose structure is changed by the jiresence of carci- nomatous or sarcomatous growths. Primary Hemorrhage.—This may be arterial, venous, or capillary, and occurs immediately upon the injury of the vessels. Intermediary or Consecutive Hemorrhage—In this variety of hemorrhage the bleeding occurs a few hours, usually within twenty-four hours, after the operation or injury, when reaction is established, and re- sults from detachment of occluding clots from the vessels, which are forced out as the arterial pressure increases. Consecutive hemorrhage may also result from the detachment of improperly applied ligatures and from the disturbance of ligatures by the movements of the patient. 21