CATARRHAL LARYNGITIS. 847 if this is not at hand, the introduction of the finger will often disclose the condition of the epiglottis, which will be felt as a soft elastic tumor the size of a horse-chestnut, its cartilaginous outline being entirely masked by the swollen tissues. (Fig, 730.) Treatment.—If the symptoms are not extremely urgent, scarification of the epiglottis with a sharp-pointed knife may be employed ; a curved bis- toury, wrapped with adhesive plaster to within one-third of an inch of its point, is a satisfactory instrument for this purpose, the part being exposed by a laryngoscopic mirror, or, if this is not at hand, the incision being guided by the index finger placed upon the epiglottis. Scarification is fol- lowed by free escape of blood and serum, and usually rapid improvement in the symptoms. If, however, the dyspnoea is urgent, or recurs after scari- fication, tracheotomy or intubation should be performed. Tracheotomy is the operation which is likely to be followed by the best results, for if the epiglottis is cedematous, as is usually the case, the introduction of an intu- bation-tube is difficult, and when introduced the swollen epiglottis pre- vents the entrance of air. The immediate result of tracheotomy in these cases is usually satisfactory, the dyspncea being relieved, and the swelling of the cedematous tissues rapidly subsiding; but many cases subsequently die, especially those in which the affection has developed as a sequel of nephritis, scarlet fever, or erysipelas. LARYNGITIS. This affection may exist as an acute or as a chronic catarrhal laryngitis, simple membranous laryngitis, diphtheritic laryngitis, acute cedematous laryngitis, or tuberculous or syphilitic laryngitis. Acute Catarrhal Laryngitis.—This affection may arise from exten- sion of inflammation from the pharynx, from exposure to cold and damp- ness, from the inhalation of irritating substances or gases, or from over-use of the parts in speaking or singing. The prominent symptoms are fever, cough, hoarseness or complete loss of voice, and more or less muco-purulent expectoration following frequent efforts to clear the throat. Dyspncea is usually not present in these cases unless submucous oedema causes marked swelling of the inflamed mucous membrane. Laryngoscopic examination shows the mucous membrane of the larynx to be congested, red, and swollen, the cords being particularly involved. Treatment.—This consists in keep- ing the patient free from cold and exposure, at the same time leeches or cold compresses being applied to the neck over the larynx; and great relief is often experienced from the inhalation of steam impregnated with sedatives and astringent substances. A mixture of menthol, «kv, compound tinc- ture of benzoin, f^ij, added to boiling water, Oi, is a very satisfactory inhala- tion. The use of an aperient is often followed by benefit. Under this treatment the affection usually subsides rapidly, and it is extremely rare for the breathing to be seriously affected. If dyspncea should become marked from oedema of the mucous membrane, intubation or tracheotomy may be required. Chronic Catarrhal Laryngitis.—This may result from acute laryn- gitis, the inhalation of irritating substances, or long-continued vocal efforts.