356 PATHOLOGY OF ANEURISM. frequently developed. Aneurism occurring in childhood and youth is the result of embolism or of a developmental weakness. Occupation.-—Occupations involving severe muscular exertion predispose to aneurism ; thus, soldiers and laborers often suffer from this affection. Country.—Aneurism is usually said to be more common in England and Ireland than elsewhere. Eldridge has recently called attention to the fre- quency with which it is encountered in European residents in Japan, a fact which he attributes to the wide-spread distribution of syphilis among the earlier residents. Hypertrophy of the heart, by increasing blood-pressure, may act as a predisposing cause. The position of the vessel is an active predisposing cause, so far as it determines the site of the aneurism. Thus, large vessels situated near the heart, into which the blood is thrown at high pressure, often increased by curves in the vessel itself, as the aorta, innominate, and subclavian, are es- pecially liable to aneurism. It also occurs in those positions in which mus- cular strains are greatest, as shown by the more frequent occurrence of aneurism in the vessels of the right arm than in those of the left, and where vessels are exposed to traumatism, as in the femoral and popliteal arteries. There is also a disposition to the formation of aneurism at the point of bifur- cation of the vessel; for example, at the divisions of the common carotid and the popliteal. The exciting causes of aneurism are severe blows, wounds, or violent exertion; severe concussion of the mediastinal region may give rise to aortic aneurism, and strains of the popliteal artery in conjunction with dilatation of that vessel have especially been noted as causes of popliteal aneurism. A peculiar exciting cause of aneurism occurs in acute rheuma- tism and ulcerative endocarditis : emboli are liberated, which act either by (1) plugging of the artery, with subsequent dilatation to the cardiac side {embolic aneurism), or (2) by carrying micro-organisms, which set up degen- erative processes in the vessel-wall (mycotic aneurism). The small aneu- risms found in tubercular cavities in the lung, rupture of which often causes pulmonary hemorrhage, are the results of tubercular infiltration of the vessels. The same process due to other micro-organisms is sometimes seen in arteries traversing infected wounds. Pathology.—The best method of classifying aneurisms according to their pathology is that of Thoma, who divides them into aneurisms by dilata- tion and aneurisms by rupture. The first class is due to the dilatation of all the coats of the vessel, and embraces the fusiform and a few of the saccu- lated variety—the so-called true aneurisms. It occurs in the early stage of atheroma, and, as has been already stated, the three coats are rarely demon- strable in their entirety in the later stages, the media soon atrophying, and the other coats becoming blended with each other and with the surrounding altered tissues into a typical fibrous aneurismal sac. In the second variety of aneurism, that by rupture, which includes most of the sacculated variety and all of the dissecting aneurisms, the initial lesion is a rupture of the in- tima or of the intima and media, occurring primarily in the undilated artery or secondarily in the fusiform variety. This rupture may be due to strain