THE RUBBER BANDAGE. 187 possess these bandages can be applied without reverses. They are often employed in applying dressings to the head, especially after operations upon the eyes, and as the primary roller before the application of the plas- ter of Paris dressing. They may also be used in subacute joint affec- tions, both to protect the part and to make a moderate amount of elastic pressure. The Rubber Bandage.—This bandage is made from a strip of rubber sheeting from one inch to four inches in width and from three to five yards in length, which for convenience of application is rolled into a cylinder. It is used where it is desirable to apply elastic pressure to a part, and is often employed in the treatment of varicose veins of the leg and of chronic ulcers, where pressure is an important element in the treatment. The rubber band- age for application to the leg should be two and a half inches in width and three yards in length (Fig. 123), and is applied as follows: the initial ex- tremity of the roller should be placed on the foot near the toes, and secured by a circular turn ; the foot and ankle should be covered in by spiral turns which over- lap one another about two-thirds, and the bandage should then be carried up to the knee by spiral turns, at which point it should be secured by tapes sewed to the terminal extremity of the bandage, which are passed around the leg and tied. Ee- verses are not necessary in its applica- tion, as its elasticity allows it to conform to the shape of the limb. In applying the bandage it should be stretched very slightly ; if this precau- tion is not taken it soon becomes uncomfortable to the patient. The patient using one of these bandages will soon learn to apply it himself, making just the requisite amount of tension to secure its holding its place and to assure a comfortable amount of pressure upon the part. A well-fitting stocking may be placed upon the limb before the bandage is applied, or it may be applied directly to the skin. In applying this bandage in the treatment of ulcers no ointment should be used, as oily dressings soon destroy the rubber. Dry powders, such as oxide of zinc, iodoform, or aristoL should be dusted upon the ulcer before the bandage is applied. The bandage should be re- moved at night when the patient goes to bed and hung up to dry, as its inner surface becomes moist from secretions from the skin, and it should be reapplied as soon as the patient rises in the morning. FIXED DRESSINGS OR HARDENING BANDAGES. In applying these dressings many substances are used, which are incor- porated in the meshes of some fabric, such as crinoline or cheese-cloth, or are painted over its surface to give fixity or solidity to the dressing. The materials generally used in the application of fixed dressings are plaster of Paris, starch, silicate of sodium, or silicate of potassium. The plaster of Paris used for the preparation of surgical dressings should be of the same quality as that which dental surgeons employ in taking casts for teeth—that is, the Fig. 123. Rubber bandage.