PNEUMONECTOMY. 886 of foreign bodies, in cases of bronchiectasis from foreign bodies, and for the exposure and treatment of tubercular cavities. The most favorable cases for pneumonotomy are those of abscess or gan- grene of the lung, in which the pulmonary tissue overlying and surrounding the abscess or the gangrenous area is adherent to the costal pleura. When the operation is performed for the relief of bronchiectasis, following the lodgement of a foreign body, the cavity may be opened and drained and the foreign body removed. Bronchiectasis if it involves one tube only is much more favorable for operation than when a number of tubes are affected. The operation of pneumonotomy in the treatment of tuberculous cavities should, according to Godlee, be restricted to cases in which there is a single cavity in a favorable location and the patient is being worn out by the harassing cough. Operation.—The patient being anaesthetized, the position of the cavity should be accurately located, and an incision two inches in length should be made at its most dependent portion through an intercostal space ; when the lung is exposed, if this is not adherent to the chest-wall, it may be fixed to the chest by the application of a few sutures, and attempts to open the cavity should be postponed for a few days until adhesions shall have formed. If the lung is adherent to the chest-wall, an exploring trocar may be passed through the lung-tissue to verify the diagnosis. If the lung becomes col- lapsed, dyspnoea may be so marked that artificial respiration will have to be resorted to, or forced respiration may be employed through a tracheal canula. It may also be necessary to resect a portion of one or two ribs to expose the cavity sufficiently. "When the cavity is located, the superimposed lung-tissue may be divided with a knife, or the cavity may be opened with the knife of Paquelin's cautery. The cavity should be explored with the finger, and if a foreign body can be located it should be removed with forceps. If gangrenous tissue is present, it should be gently removed with the curette. The cavity should then be irrigated with some non-irritating antiseptic solu- tion, and a large drainage-tube should be introduced. The after-treatment consists in washing out the cavity and retaining the drainage-tube until expectoration, and discharge from the wound, have entirely ceased. Pneumonectomy.—This operation consists in the excision of a por- tion of the lung, and may be required for the removal of tumors of the lung, or of tumors of the chest which have involved the lung, or in the treatment of recent or old irreducible hernise of the lung following injuries. It has also been employed for the removal of tuberculous portions of the lung. Experi- mental research has shown that in animals a considerable portion of the lung may be removed with comparative safety. The steps of the operation are similar to those for pneumonotomy. The lung-tissue should be divided with a knife, or with a cautery knife to avoid hemorrhage. The results of this operation in human beings have not been sufficiently encouraging to justify its employment save in exceptional cases. Intrathoracic Tumors.—These growths may spring from the walls of the chest or from the thoracic viscera. Those arising from the thoracic viscera are not cases for surgical treatment. Tumors springing from the chest-wall are usually carcinomata, and if not too intimately connected