DETAILS OF AMPUTATION. 270 the Petit's tourniquet, which has been secured around the limb above, should be screwed down so as to control the hemorrhage. After all ves- sels have been secured, any nerves which are exposed in the wound should be drawn out for a short distance and resected, and tendons which project in the stump should also be retrenched. The flaps and the surface of the stump may now be irrigated with hot bichloride solution or with hot sterilized water; the latter application is especially useful if there is con- siderable oozing from the muscles. If the surgeon does not wish to use antiseptic solutions he may simply sponge or mop off the surface of the flaps with pads of sterilized gauze, and the question of drainage should next receive attention. If one is sure of his asepsis during operation and the bleeding has been absolutely controlled, it is possible in many cases to close the stump without drainage, and this procedure is recommended by many surgeons. We are of the opinion, however, that the introduc- tion of a drainage-tube is useful, for if consecutive bleeding occurs after reaction the blood escapes from the stump, and does not stuff the stump and cause tension upon the flaps. We therefore consider it wiser before closing the flaps to introduce a short rubber drainage-tube at the most dependent portion of the wound. Where it is possible, the deeper parts of the wound are brought together by continuous or interrupted sutures of catgut (Fig. 192); a second layer of sutures is then introduced to ap- proximate the edges of the flaps. (Fig. 193.) The suturing material for this purpose may be catgut, silk, or silkworm-gut. The stump having been closed, the cavity may or may not be irrigated through the drainage-tubes, according to the judgment of the surgeon, with sterilized water or with bichloride solution. The surface of the stump should then be irrigated and cleansed, and next a narrow strip of protective may be placed over the line of sutures, or this may be omitted and the line of sutures may be covered with loose pads of bichloride or sterilized gauze. When a number of these layers have been applied, larger pieces of gauze, composed of a number of layers, are laid upon the stump, covering it thoroughly in all directions, and over the gauze are applied a few layers of sterilized or sublimated cotton. This dressing is held in position by a recurrent gauze bandage. Compres- sion of the tissues of the stump by a firmly applied bandage prevents oozing Fig. 193. Fig. 192. Application of deep sutures. (Alter Esmarch.) Approximation of edges of flaps. (After Esmarch.)