VULVITIS AND VAGINITIS. 1178 isfactory. In recto-vagi rial fistuke which extend very low down the sphinc- ter and the narrow band of tissue between the vagina and the anus should be divided and the fistula converted into a complete perineal laceration, which can then be closed in the usual way. The vagina needs very little attention after these operations, a light packing of iodoform gauze being the best dressing, but this should be changed daily. Irrigation of the vagina is not employed unless there is some discharge from the uterus. The patient must not be allowed to sit up in bed for at least a fortnight, and then the stitches may be removed. Very frequently partial union only is obtained, and several operations are necessary to close the fistula. Cicatrices.—As the result of extensive inflammation and sloughing during parturition, cicatrices are often seen in the vulva or the vagina, par- ticularly in the latter, and sometimes they almost completely occlude the passage. The cicatrices may be treated by free incision, with care not to injure the surrounding parts. If extensive raw surfaces are left by the operation, an attempt should be made to cover them by sliding flaps of mucous membrane or by suturing the wounds ; extensive bands can thus be disposed of and primary union obtained. INFLAMMATION. Vulvitis, Vaginitis.—Inflammation of the vulva and of the vagina is very frequent, the former usually being secondary to the latter. The commonest of these infections are the venex^eal, either gonorrheal or chancroidal. A vulvitis, however, may be the result of any irritating discharge from the vagina, the leakage of urine from the bladder in cases of incontinence, or mere neglect of cleanliness. In the majority of such cases it can be subdued by thorough cleanliness. Bartholin's vulvo- vaginal glands may become inflamed and form labial abscesses, which require treatment by incision and thorough extirpation of the lining membrane, or a recurrence is certain to take place. (See page 1183.) Tuberculosis more commonly attacks the vagina than the vulva, being generally secondary to uterine tuberculosis. It appears in two varieties. The first is more or less extensive ulceration with blue undermined edges, a pale base covered with flabby granulations, and a slight, thin discharge. The second form is the nodular or lupous variety, resembling very much lupus of the mucous membranes elsewhere. It can be distinguished from epithelioma by the lesser induration and by the presence of dark bluish nodules at a little distance from the ulceration. The treatment of these lesions consists in their thorough excision or destruction by the cautery. Plastic operations may be necessary afterwards, to obviate the contractions and other deformities which ensue. The results of treatment are not satis- factory, for recurrences are very frequent and the patient is generally tuber- culous otherwise. If the cases are neglected, however, very extensive destruction of the parts may be produced by ulceration, and vesical or rectal fistulas may form. The inguinal glands will usually be found affected. Endometritis.—Inflammation of the lining membrane of the uterus is termed endometritis, and may affect either the body or the cervix, or both. Endometritis may be the result of gonorrhoea! or tubercular infection, but