86 THYROGLOSSAL TUMORS. the third forming the two lateral lobes of the thyroid gland. Branchial cysts may therefore be found anywhere in these regions. Treatment.—When branchial cysts are large they demand removal by operation, and the dissection may be very difficult, on account of their close relations to the vessels, nerves, and deeper parts of the neck. In some cases a cure has been obtained by aspiration and injection. THYROGLOSSAL TUMORS. The central lobe of the thyroid is formed by a special turning in of the mucous membrane at the root of the tongue, which forms a process of epi- thelial cells running forward through the body of the hyoid bone to the centre of the thyroid gland. This process is usually spoken of as a canal, but for nearly the whole of its length it is a solid cord of epithelial cells without any lumen, running forward and downward from the root of the tongue at the foramen caecum and terminating in the pyramidal lobe. Tumors frequently develop from this band of epithelial tissue, and are known as tumors of the thyroglossal process or duct (Bochdalek). In the course of development the hyoid bone becomes solid even where the epithe- lial tissue crosses its centre, the epithelium disappearing at this point. By that time, however, the distal part of the process towards the thyroid gland. should be entirely absorbed or converted into thyroid tissue. In some cases small masses of epithelium remain in the track of the cord, but separated from the gland on one side and from the pharynx on the other. These may grow and form solid tumors like the thyroid in structure, or cysts closely resembling the dermoid cysts. They can be recognized by their situation in the course of the former cord, although occasionally they may lie some- what to one side, as diverticula are found extending from the epithelial mass on either side. These tumors sometimes reach the size of a goose-egg (Fig. 44), and may cause a little difficulty in swal- lowing and some deformity, or they may suppurate, and when incised they leave a permanent sinus, discharging a mucoid fluid. Solid tumors and cysts may also develop in the substance of the hyoid bone from that part of the epithelial cord which passes through it, or between the hyoid bone and the tongue. If these cysts should project in the floor of the mouth, coming forward between the tongue and the lower jaw, they are very liable to be mistaken for ranula, but should be easily recognized by their contents, which are very like the sebaceous matter of the dermoid cysts. The solid tumors at the base of the tongue may be mistaken for sarcomata. Congenital cysts, which are usually of the branchial type, occasionally dermoids, and occasionally solid masses of thyroid or thymus tissue, may, therefore, be found anywhere in the clefts between these foetal processes, Fig. 44. Thyroglossal cyst.