985 DIAGNOSIS OF HERNIA. Fig fingers. If reduction is allowed to take place spontaneously in such a hydro- cele, by having the patient recline upon his back the reduction is very slow, while a reducible hernia under the same circumstances, when it once begins to move, usually slips back quickly. The hydrocele is almost inva- riably translucent, and hernia is very rarely so, the exceptions occurring in children, in whom the light sometimes passes imperfectly through a hernia. If the neck can be felt, it is generally thin, although we have seen some cases in which it was the size of the finger or thumb. The patient will generally state that the swelling was first noticed in the lower part of the scrotum. Hydrocele and hernia may coexist on the two sides. (Fig. 794.) As Macready points out, the method of distinguishing between congenital hydrocele and hernia by the greater ease with which the latter is retained after reduction is of little practical importance, because the diagno- sis must generally be made in children, and in children a hernia when reduced is very apt not to return at once, even if the ring be large and the hernia of consider- able size, and the test therefore cannot be applied. A congenital hydrocele, more- over, does not always come down at once after reduction. The diagnosis between hydrocele and hernia is less difficult than would appear at first, because irreducible enteroceles, which alone could be con- founded with hydrocele, are rare, irre- ducible hernia? being usually omental. Hydrocele of a hernial sac is very difficult to differentiate from irreducible hernia except by its translucency and by exploratory aspiration. In women a hydrocele in the canal of Nuck is easily recognized, because a bubonocele in women is rarely irreducible. Varicocele.—The swelling of varicocele may be reduced by pressure, but without any sense of distinct slipping back. If the patient lies down the swelling becomes reduced, but very slowly, and it is not easy to keep it reduced by pressure upon the ring when the patient stands. The scrotum feels light, and the tumor has the characteristic sensation of a bundle of worms. No fluctuation is present, but there may be a decided impulse on coughing in certain cases, although the response is not quite so distinct as in a hernia or in a congenital hydrocele. When the neck of the sac is fol- lowed up towards the ring it is found to become very narrow, and the patient states that he first noticed the swelling in the scrotum. An undescended testicle in the inguinal canal, when inflamed, is painful, and may occasion vomiting and simulate a strangulated hernia. It can be recognized by the absence of the testicle on that side and by the peculiar subjective sensation given by pressure upon the gland. An in- flamed testicle is apparently often mistaken for a hernia, but such an Right inguinal hernia and left hydrocele, showing the difference in the neck of the tumors.