791 CESOPHAGOTOMY. stout bougie, but this should never be done with a sharp-pointed object. When the foreign body has been in place for some days, attempts at instru- mental removal become very dangerous, because ulceration may have already Fig. 696. Coin-cntrher. begun, as in a case in which we found during an oesophagotoiny that the edge of a brass coin had perforated the oesophageal wall and lay in contact with the carotid artery one week after it had been swallowed. CEsophagotomy.—If these attempts to dislodge the foreign body fail, cesophagotoniy may be done. An incision about three inches long is made in the neck on the left side just below the level of the cricoid cartilage and par- allel to the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid. The deep fascia is opened, the sterno-mastoid and the great vessels of the neck drawn backward with a blunt retractor, and the larynx pidled towards the median line. A blunt dissection, passing well back of the larynx so as to avoid the recurrent laryngeal nerve, discloses the oesophagus lying in the depth of the wound. A large urethral sound or stout bougie should be passed by the mouth, and made to project into the wound and press the wall of the oesophagus forward so that it can be incised. The edges of the incision in the oesophagus should be at once secured by silk threads passed with curved needles. From this wound a pair of straight forceps may be passed down the oesophagus nearly to the cardiac orifice. Foreign bodies high up in the neck may be removed by a subhyoid pharyngotomy. (See page 788.) When the foreign body is extracted, unless it has lain a long time and caused ulceration of the wall or possibly an abscess, the incision in the oesophagus may be closed by fine sutures and the external woiind lightly packed in order to guard against the chance of leakage. Food is administered by the stomach-tube or by the rectum for a couple of days. After recovery, bougies should be passed at intervals, to prevent contraction. Diverticula are sometimes seen in the oesophagus, either as congenital malformations or as dilated pouches above a stricture, the oesophageal walls being stretched by the violent efforts at swallowing (pressure diverticula). Diverticula may also be formed by abscesses which have appeared in the neighborhood of the oesophagus and discharged into it, leaving open cavities where food lodges, or by cicatricial contraction of the tissues about the tube, which pull on a part of its wall until a sort of sac is formed (traction diver- ticula). These diverticula sometimes form cavities the size of a fist, with a wide or narrow mouth. The symptoms are regurgitation of food at inter- vals—although there may be no conscious difficulty in swallowing, and pressure upon various organs and the tube itself by the diverticulum when distended. On passing a bougie into the sac it is arrested, and the absence