366 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. infection of the wound. This operation has two drawbacks : the dissection is difficult, and there is danger of wounding other important structures. There is no great danger to be feared from ligation of the diseased vessel near the sac, if careful asepsis is practised. The advantages which this opera- tion offers are complete removal of the sac and a consequent radical cure, with the avoidance of a soft clot which may disintegrate and suppurate, as well as avoidance of the pressure of cicatricial tissue on the neighboring nerves. It may be advised in the axilla and groin, in the gluteal region, and in other regions where an aneurism has become diffused and the alterna- tive is amputation. It is well adapted for arterio-venous aneurisms and traumatic aneurisms, and for those cases in which the sac remains full of fluid blood after ligation. Galvano-puncture, which was first introduced by Phillips in 1838, is practised by the introduction of one or more fine steel needles, trocar-shaped, and well insulated by vulcanite to one-third of an inch of the point, into the sac, and connecting them, one after the other, for five minutes with the positive pole of a galvanic battery, the negative pole being attached to a sponge-covered plate applied to the opposite side of the sac or held in the patient's hand. A current of five or six milliamperes is employed. The positive pole gives a firmer coagulum than the negative, which should never be introduced. The needles are left- in an hour or more, to allow the clot to solidify, and are then cautiously withdrawn, and the puncture is sealed with collodion, bleeding being first checked by pressure. There is often an evolution of gas during the process, which distends the sac, and perhaps some oedema around the puncture. Statistics are not very favora- ble, although amelioration of symptoms may result, as in a case reported by Moullin. The dangers are coagulation en masse, sloughing at the point of puncture, and embolism. This procedure may be resorted to in the aorta and the subclavian artery when other means fail. Manipulation of the sac is a method introduced by Fergusson. and con- sists in kneading the sac with a view of dislodging a portion of the clot, in the hope that it will occlude the distal orifice. Although occasional cures have been recorded, it is too uncertain and dangerous a measure to be recommended. Introduction of foreign bodies, or Moore's operation, consists in the introduction of some substance like iron or steel wire, catgut, or horse-hair, with a view of exciting coagulation. The results thus far have not been satisfactory. The best material is iron or steel wire, which should be fine and flexible, only a small piece, carefully sterilized, being introduced at a time through a Southey's canula, the end being buried. Inflammation, sloughing, or rupture of the sac is the usual result. Acupuncture and Macewen's Operation (Needling).—Acupuncture consists in the introduction of several pairs of fine sterilized steel needles (sometimes gilded) into the aneurism, each pair crossing in the sac, and allowing them to remain in place for several days, until a clot has formed around them. Macewen also introduces a long stiff needle into the sac to the opposite wall, which, vibrating in the blood-current, scratches the wall, or is moved by hand for a few minutes so as to scratch the sac in several