TEEATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 28 frame may be of wood or heavy wire, resting on legs or hanging from a support above the bed. In some cases permanent baths have been success- fully employed, the part being suspended by bandages in a similar way in a small bath-tub beneath the level of the fluid. The latter method answers for large superficial lesions, but the irrigation is better for cavities. Incisions.—While the means already described enable us to combat the congestion and therefore relieve tension to some extent, the relief is only partial. If resolution of the inflammation does not speedily occur, tension must be relieved by dividing dense tissues which surround the inflammatory focus, or by giving exit to the inflammatory exudate. It is sometimes neces- sary to incise the inflammatory focus very early, before pus appears, in order to prevent the sloughing which will follow if the intense pressure which is strangulating the parts and entirely shutting off their blood-supply is not relieved at once. Early incision may also be necessary to obtain relief of tension which is causing the absorption of dangerous amounts of toxines from the inflammatory focus, or the inflammation may be so situated that immediate interference is necessary in order to exclude all possibility of sub- sequent invasion of important organs, as in facial carbuncle, which may in- fect the veins and then extend back through the orbital vein to the cerebral sinuses. As a rule, however, incisions are not required until pus has formed, and the surgeon must be guided by the symptoms. Indications for Incision.—Pain is an excellent sign of tension, and if it is found to continue or even to increase in spite of the thorough and in- telligent use of ice-bags or poultices for twenty-four hours, especially if the pain is sufficient to prevent sleep, an incision is urgently needed. In some cases, however, dangerous inflammation may exist without much pain. If a brawny infiltration of the subcutaneous tissue exists, its edge being promi- nent under the skin almost as if the cellular tissue were injected with wax, and especially if it is extending, immediate incision is necessary, for such in- flammations seldom resolve or form well localized abscesses, but cause ex- tensive sloughing, and any delay will result in greater destruction of tissue. Fever and Rigors.—The elevation of temperature will generally be proportionate to the amount of tension in the inflamed part and to the kind of toxine which is absorbed, and both demand relief by the knife as soon as they become at all marked. With the febrile movement there will be a chill in some cases, and when chills appear after a period of fever they can be taken as a proof that pus exists. In pyremia a chill sometimes marks the beginning of every fresh abscess. But it should be especially noted that these chills are merely the reaction of the body to certain bacterial poisons, and are by no means a pathognomonic sign of the presence of pus. Physical Signs.—The physical signs of the presence of pus in the tissues are the evidences of elastic distention and fluctuation. Fluctuation is the sen- sation communicated by the wave of fluid playing in a closed cavity or sac, and it is produced by holding one hand or finger lightly but steadily in con- tact with the surface of the suspected swelling, while with another a quick impact is made upon the same at a point as far distant as possible. A sen- sation similar to this can be obtained from any of the large muscles of the body if the test is made at right angles with the long axis of the muscular