TRAUMATIC CATARACT. 798 (1) Dislocation of the Crystalline Lens.—Luxation of the lens may be complete or incomplete. If it is partial, the margin of the lens may be seen with the ophthalmoscope as a dark line ; there are tremulousness of the iris (irido-donesis), from weakening or rupture of the suspensory ligament, monocular diplopia, and impaired power of accommodation. A partially dislo- cated lens usually remains perfectly clear, and vision can be much improved by suitable glasses, operative interference being required only exceptionally. A completely dislocated lens may be lodged in the vitreous, or in the anterior chamber, or may pass through a wound, as already stated, and lie beneath the conjunctiva, or even under Tenon's capsule. Treatment.—A lens dislocated into the anterior chamber becomes cata- ractous, and by pressure upon the iris may cause inflammation, and, by occluding the angle of the anterior chamber, secondary glaucoma. It should be removed by a simple corneal incision made in the same way as for the extraction of cataract. (Fig. 699.) A lens lodged beneath the conjunctiva forms a rounded, somewhat translucent swelling, the overlying conjunctiva frequently being greenish or brownish in color, owing to staining with uveal pigment. The lens may be extracted through a small incision made through the conjunctiva directly over it. (Fig. 700.) A number of methods have been devised Fig. 699. Dislocation of lens into anterior chamber. Subconjunctival dislocation of lens. (De Schweinitz.) (De Schweinitz.) for removing a lens dislocated into the vitreous chamber. According to Knapp (and this method the author has followed), the best plan is to induce thorough local anaesthesia, make an upper corneal section, remove the speculum, and expel the lens by methodically pressing on the lower part of the sclera directly towards the centre of the eyeball. The lens will pre- sent in the pupil, and may be removed with a wire spoon in its unbroken capsule. All these manipulations require great dexterity, and are liable to be followed by escape of vitreous. (2) Traumatic Cataract.—Traumatic opacity of the crystalline lens occurs either from direct or from indirect injury. In the first instance the lens and its capsule are injured, the aqueous humor enters, the lenticular substance swells and becomes opaque. Absorp-