130 SHOCK, HEMORRHAGE. causes of death after operations are shock, hemorrhage, and wound compli- cations. Shock.—Shock is a condition of physical depression which may cause the death of a patient before the operation is completed or after its comple- tion. It is a well-recognized fact that shock after certain operations is much greater than that following others ; for instance, shock in amputation of the hip-joiut is greater than that following amputation of the forearm. Although the introduction of aseptic methods has markedly diminished the mortality following operations, it has in no way affected that following- shock ; in fact, antiseptic precautions often add to the shock by prolong- ing the operation. Secondary Shock.—Secondary shock should also be mentioned as the cause of death following operations. It is a condition which may develop in a few hours or several days after the operation, and is probably due to intense septic infection and the formation of heart-clot, which may be the direct cause of death or may lead to a fatal issue by embolism. Hemorrhage.—Death may result from hemorrhage at the time of oper- ation, therefore it is important that as little blood as possible be lost during the operation. The use of haemostatic forceps and Esmarch's bandage has led to a great saving of blood during operations. The rapidity of the loss of blood is also an element of danger during operations; the loss of the same amount of blood, if it escapes gradually, is attended with less danger, from the fact that it is made up by drawing on the serum and blood-cells in the deeper organs of the body. Intermediary Hemorrhage.—Intermediary hemorrhage, or the bleed- ing which occurs a few hours after the operation, when reaction has oc- curred, is another source of danger; it is apt to be more marked if shock has been well developed, as many of the smaller vessels during the de- pressed condition of the circulation do not bleed, and thus escape the surgeon's observation, and are not ligated. Secondary Hemorrhage.—Secondary hemorrhage, which may occur at any time from the period of reaction until the wound is permanently healed, was formerly, when the importance of asepsis was not appreciated, one of the chief sources of danger after an operation involving the larger blood-vessels; but, fortunately, at the present time, owing to the very general adoption of the aseptic method of wound treatment, it is rarely seen. Inflammatory fever and profuse suppuration may cause death after operations, but these complications, as well as erysipelas, pyaemia, hospital gangrene, cellulitis, and tetanus, are now much less common than formerly. A condition described as surgical scarlet fever is sometimes observed as a complication of operations and injuries. This condition is characterized by a general erythema of the skin, which closely resembles the eruption of scarlet fever. It develops within a few days after operations and injuries, and presents a marked resemblance to scarlet fever, although throat symp- toms are usually absent. The condition has been variously attributed to vaso-motor irritation, to general septic infection, and to the toxic action of certain drugs, such as iodoform, carbolic acid, and corrosive sublimate. The