COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 707 The diagnosis of concussion from alcoholism and apoplexy is important. In alcoholism the temperature is subnormal, and in apoplexy it is also often subnormal, but it may rise to the normal or higher if the issue threatens to be fatal. There will be less prostration in alcoholism, and in apoplexy there will be symptoms of compression. The prognosis is generally good unless grave lesions exist which are masked by the condition of concussion, al- though some cases end fatally from this amount of injury alone. The symp- toms usually subside by degrees, the patient falling into a gentle sleep and awaking quite restored, but often feeble and tremulous. Vertigo and head- ache may persist for some time. Treatment.—The treatment consists of rest, the application of an ice-cap to the head, and hot bottles to the feet. The feeble pulse demands the re- cumbent position, but the head should be elevated as soon as the improvement in the pulse allows, in order to favor the arrest of any hemorrhage which may be going on. If the vomiting prevents feeding by the mouth, nutri- ment must be administered by the rectum. The too free use of stimulants is to be avoided, on account of the liability of setting up too much excitement in the stage of reaction, and ammonia or ether is preferable to alcohol for the same reason, as their effect is more evanescent. The whole safety of the patient lies in not aggravating the lesions which exist in the brain, and for this reason every precaution must be taken to avoid anything which may increase the existing hemorrhage or other condition, for in every case marked by true unconsciousness it should be considered certain that some grave lesion of the brain has been produced by the injury. Morphine or the bro- mides may be used with discretion in the stage of restlessness, and calomel with morphine or Dover's powder in small doses as a sedative. A patient who has suffered from a severe concussion of the brain should be kept in bed on light diet and free from all excitement for ten days or a fortnight. Compression.—Pathology.—When the internal capacity of the skull is diminished in any way, as by a depressed fracture, a hemorrhage, the entrance of a foreign body, the accumulation of pus, or the growth of a tumor, a condition may develop which is known as compression of the brain. Although the symptoms of this condition are characteristic and constant, its exact pathology is not yet understood. The theory most acceptable at present appears to be the following. The only variable contents of the skull are the cerebro-spinal fluid and the blood contained in the blood- vessels. The cerebro-spinal fluid surrounds the brain, and a large quan- tity of it is also contained in the ventricles. The first effect of increased pressure within the skull is to drive out a part of the cerebro-spinal fluid, some of which finds a ready escape by way of the foramen magnum, passing down along the spinal cord. The membranes between the vertebral arches are somewhat distensible, and this escape, therefore, affords considerable relief to the pressure within the skull. The cerebro-spinal cavities, such as the arachnoid and the ventricles, all communicate with the lymphatic sys- tem, and whenever the pressure becomes extreme, absorption of the fluid is increased. The quantity of cerebro-spinal fluid within the skull is thus reduced, some additional space is gained, and the compression is equal- ized. This relief is evidently limited, and a certain amount of the fluid