ANTHRAX. 52 or wool of diseased animals, or by an insect bite or sting, and upon exposed portions of the body—the hands and face. Symptoms.—When inoculation of the skin has occurred, two distinct forms of inflammation result, the localized carbuncular form and the diffuse cedematous form. The carbuncular variety begins with the appearance of a minute red spot at the point of inoculation, which soon develops into a vesicle containing clear or bloody serum. This in turn dries up. leaving a small dark purple or black spot in the skin surrounded by a zone of slight inflammation, shown by a rosy tint of the skin and the formation of minute vesicles. These changes take place in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, but may develop more rapidly. The inflammatory zone spreads slowly in a centrifugal direction into the healthy skin, while towards the centre the vesicles dry and collapse, and the rosy pink grows gradually darker to a deep red, soon becoming dusky, and finally as dark as the centre. The central necrotic spot is always depressed below the level of the surrounding skin, and it usually remains dry or with a merely serous discharge, as the bacillus is not pyogenic. The ordinary signs of inflammation, such as pain, swelling, and congestion, are absent, the process being that of an acute necrosis of the part affected. In some cases, however, there will be some pain, oedeina, and redness, and even lymphangitis. As a rule, the infected spot is about an inch in diameter or less when it is brought to the notice of the surgeon, and in twenty-four hours it will double in extent. Even when there is no pain or other sensation at first, pain is apt to begin after forty-eight hours, when a local oedema appeals, which is sometimes rather extensive. The bacillus can be found in this cedeinatous tissue as well as in the serum of the vesicles. At this time general infection is evident from the rising temperature, due to the absorption of the toxines. Great mental anxiety is felt, which subsides into a somnolent state, and the patient soon succumbs to a typical septicaemia, often with diarrhoea and occasionally albuminuria. The temperature is rarely high, and the worst cases often show the least elevation. If recovery takes place, the temperature usually returns to the normal quite abruptly on the second or third day. Occa- sional instances of spontaneous recovery have been noted, the inflamma- tion remaining local and the adherent slough being slowly thrown off, the delay depending upon the fact that suppuration never occurs in a pure anthrax inflammation, a mixed infection with pyogenic germs being neces- sary in order that pus may be produced. The mortality varies greatly with the situation of the primary lesion, for one-fourth of the cases die when the disease attacks the head or trunk, only one-eighth when it is on the upper extremity, and only one in twenty when the lower extremity is involved. The cedematous form is even more dangerous, instances of recovery being very rare, even with vigorous treatment, and almost unknown spon- taneously. In this form there is a sudden appearance of a tense oedema, spreading in all directions, with very slight discoloration of the skin, and without the sharp margin which is so characteristic of erysipelas. The lack of the deep bronze color may serve to distinguish it from malignant oedema, but sometimes only a bacteriological examination can decide between the two.