927 TREATMENT OF SUPPURATIVE PERITONITIS. fatal. Septic poisoning without inflammation also occurs after laparotomy, and in some cases the condition of intestino-peritoneal septicaemia is set up, in which the patients appear to be poisoned by the decomposing contents of the paralyzed bowel even more than by the exudate in the peritoneum. The autopsy in these cases shows little or no fluid in the peritoneal cavity, but the membrane is reddened and slight adhesions exist, with a little mucoid fluid in the pelvis, the coils of bowel being immensely distended and filled with foul gas and fecal material. Perforative Peritonitis.—The symptoms of perforative peritonitis vary with the organ from which it originates, and may be preceded by symptoms of disease of that organ. The peritonitis develops rapidly or slowly, and the course and symptoms are not unlike those of traumatic peritonitis. The special varieties will be considered in connection with the various organs. The Treatment of Suppurative Peritonitis.—Suppurative perito- nitis can be treated with success only by surgical measures, for the instances of recovery by spontaneous discharge of the pus are too rare to admit of temporizing methods. During the early stages, before pus has formed, the patient should be kept recumbent and perfectly quiet, the use of the bed- pan being insisted upon lest adhesions be ruptured and the infection spread. An ice-bag or cold coil should be applied to the abdomen and enough morphine given to control vomiting and modify pain, but not enough to mask the symptoms and confuse the diagnosis. Peptonized milk alone should be given for food, and the rectum may be washed out with a small injection of water, but no laxatives should be given. Whatever the origin of the peritonitis, the operative treatment must depend upon the local or general character of the inflammation. When localized peritonitis results in abscess, the pus should be discharged without exposing any of the uninfected peritoneal surfaces if possible. This can easily be done when adhesions exist between the abscess-cavity and the ab- dominal wall, by making the incision at that point, as is often the case in abscesses from appendicitis. Pelvic abscesses can also be discharged through incisions in the vagina; but the older method of evacuating them through the rectum is now seldom used, because of the danger of fecal infection of the abscess-cavity. In the treatment of local peritoneal abscesses it is very important to search for the original cause of the inflammation and remove a gangrenous appendix or a suppurating Fallopian tube or close a perforating ulcer of the stomach or intestine, unless the patient's condition is so bad that these procedures will endanger his life. The incision should be large enough to allow thorough exploration of the cavity with the fingers or by sight. When the abscess has been opened, the pus should be carefully sponged out and the cavity irrigated with sterilized water or 1 to 3000 bichloride solution, which must be sponged out completely afterwards. A large drainage-tube should be inserted at the most dependent part of the cavity and the latter lightly packed with gauze, the external wound being packed also or partly closed with sutures in case it is very large. If it seems probable that asepsis can be established and that suppuration will cease early, sutures may be intro- duced during the operation, and when the discharge ceases they can be tied