1094 HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. has been excised successfully in these cases, although recurrence has been the rule after a longer or shorter period of freedom, for tuberculosis of the bladder is usually secondary to similar disease of the prostate or of the kidney. The injection of iodoform in a ten per cent, emulsion with ster- ilized olive oil has been practised, and certainly ameliorates the symptoms, although it is doubtful if a cure can be thus obtained. Drainage of the bladder gives temporary good results, and we have seen the bladder symp- toms relieved by it in one case, although the tuberculosis extended to other organs and resulted in the death of the patient a couple of years later. Hypertrophy of the Prostate.—The prostate properly belongs to the genital system, but its enlargement is almost without sexual symptoms, and, owing to its situation at the neck of the bladder, is of significance chiefly to the latter organ, and it will therefore be discussed in this chapter. The prostate may be enlarged by the growth of various tumors, but they are all rare except the fibromyo-adenomatous growth which is generally known as hypertrophy of the prostate. Pathology.—The exact pathology of hypertrophy of the prostate is still a matter of dispute, some authorities claiming that the disease is simply a sequence of a general arterio-sclerosis, while others more logically compare it to fibromyoma of the uterus, an organ which is, from a biological point of view, the analogue of the prostate. The structure of these enlargements resembles that of the normal gland, but the fibromyomatous stroma is gener- ally much more active in the production of new tissue than the glandular portion. The enlargement may be diffuse, the gland preserving its natural shape and all parts being equally hypertrophied (Fig. 836), or it may in- volve either one of the lateral lobes or only the middle lobe. (Fig. 837.) Sometimes pedunculated tumors project from the internal or the external sur- face of the gland, but this form is rarely seen except in the middle lobe. The hypertrophy of the prostate compresses the urethra passing through the organ and inter- feres with the evacuation of the bladder. This obstruction is greatest when the enlargement is limited to the middle lobe, as tumors in this situation are apt to project into the bladder di- rectly over the internal meatus, and even when small they may close the urethra on the princi- ple of a ball-and-socket valve. The enlargement of the prostate lengthens the prostatic urethra, and if it is not symmetrical it causes deviation of the canal, sometimes making it quite tortu- ous. The urinary obstruction is of very slow development, and is hardly noticed by the pa- tient at first, the bladder slowly distending and its walls becoming hypertrophied. (Fig. 838.) At the same time the muscular fasciculi are apt to be separated by the great distention, and the mucous membrane pro- trudes between them, so that the interior view of the organ resembles a honey- comb, containing deep pockets between projecting bands. There is usually Fig. 838. Hypertrophy of the bladder in en- larged prostate, showing section of wall and internal surface. (Agnew.)