994 TAXIS IN STRANGULATED HERNIA. stroking movements towards the aperture of the sac along the neck. The patient must be so placed as to lessen the amount of traction and compres- sion of the ring. Thus, in inguinal and femoral hernia, and in obturator hernia also, the thigh should be flexed upon the pelvis and rotated inward. In umbilical hernia the back should be bent forward by pillows under the shoulders and the hips, in order to relax the abdominal muscles. The re- cumbent position should always be employed, and in some cases it is of advantage to place the shoulders lower than the pelvis. The greatest gen- tleness should be exercised in taxis, in order to avoid injury to the bowel, especially when strangulation exists, for when the intestinal circulation has been impaired the gut is likely to be much softened. After the contents of the hernia have been reduced it is sometimes possible to reduce the sac also, the attachments of the latter by loose cellular tissue being so light as to enable one to invaginate it and return it to the abdomen. In applying taxis it should be remembered that the part which has come down last should be the first to return, and that this part will generally be found at the back of the sac, and therefore the fingers should be made to press upward along this part. As the patient lies upon his back, the sac should be elevated, in order to bring the contents more into line with the canal, and it is some- times of advantage to lift the hernial tumor vertically, so as to have the aid of gravity in the reduction. In femoral hernia, when there is a tendency of the sac to roll upward towards Poupart's ligament, as is often the case, the tumor should be drawn down during taxis. The surgeon should place his fingers underneath the sac and his thumb in front of it, and the fingers should make regular kneading movements upward. If more force is neces- sary in large ruptures the sac is grasped in both hands, the fingers being behind and the thumbs in front, while the wrists steady the neck of the sac and make lateral pressure to force the parts into a funnel shape with the apex directed towards the ring. An anaesthetic is of great assistance in the reduction of a strangulated hernia, many ruptures which have previously resisted persistent efforts being reduced with ease when full muscular relaxation is obtained. But it is undesirable to administer the anaesthetic often, and therefore the patient's consent to immediate operation should be secured before it is given, and the necessary preparations must be made in order that the operation may be un- dertaken at once when a five minutes' attempt with the taxis fails. If there is any objection to the use of an anaesthetic, the well-known methods of ap- plying ice-bags or an ether spray to the tumor, or allowing ether to evapo- rate from a cloth laid over the rupture in order to contract and empty the blood-vessels, will sometimes be of service. Partial muscular relaxation may also be obtained by placing the patient in a hot bath. But the anaes- thetic is to be preferred to all other adjuvants of the taxis, because the em- ployment of others causes the loss of valuable time, and to be successful both taxis and operation must be carried out at the earliest possible moment. Before the anaesthetic is given the patient's stomach should be washed out, lest vomiting take place while he is unconscious, and pneumonia be set up by aspiration of vomited material. Sometimes the symptoms—vomiting, constipation, and abdominal pain—