363 LIGATION IN ANEURISM. The uncertainty of this method is its worst feature, only fifty per cent, of cures being recorded and a few deaths. It is practicable only in sacculated aneurisms of the extremities. Its advantages are that it does not lessen the prospects of success by subsequent ligation, a drawback to digital compres- sion, and that it takes a comparatively short space of time. Syncope occa- sionally follows removal of the bandage, and capillary hemorrhage may take place around the sac; the nerves may be pressed upon, and there is danger of throwing additional strain on the general circulation. Ligation.—The methods of ligation are four in number. They are classified according to the position of the ligature in relation to the sac, and are known as Hunter's, and Fig. 274. B D Methods of applying ligatures: A, Hunter's; B, Anel's ; dor's; D, Wardrop's. C, Bras- Anel's, Brasdor's, Wardrop's. The Hunterian method of ligation is considered the safest and most satis- factory, and consists in the ligation of the affected ves- sel at a considerable dis- tance to the cardiac side of the aneurism. (Fig. 274, A.) This procedure gen- erally results in an imme- diate cessation of pulsation in the sac and some shrink- age in its size, with the de- velopment of two sets of anastomosing vessels. The first develops around the ligature, permitting a gen- tle stream of blood to flow through the sac, and the deposit of a laminated clot, which fills the aneurism and extends into the artery, occluding it. The occlusion of the artery causes the development of a second set of anasto- mosing vessels around the aneurism ; the latter gradually shrinks, and in the course of three or four weeks is usually cured. Anel's operation differs in the fact that the ligature is applied just above the sac (Fig. 274, jB), and only one anastomosis is established around both the sac and the ligature. The blood gains admission after ligature only by flowing backward from the origin of the first anastomosing branch below. The advantages offered by the Hunterian method are : (1) the seat of liga- ture is at a point where the relations are but little disturbed ; (2) the sac is in no danger of being injured ; (3) coagulation en masse, with its subsequent dangers of inflammation and sloughing, is generally avoided. Great im- portance was formerly attached to the application of the ligature at a dis- tance from the aneurism, where the vessel-walls were considered more likely to be healthy. Recent observations have failed to show any greater lia- bility to increased atheroma near the sac, and, even if it were so, aseptic ligation of an atheromatous vessel is a comparatively safe procedure. This