MYXOMA OF THE BREAST. 906 cystic tumors. The tumor may project through this opening, as in the case of fibro adenoma, but this occurs much more commonly than in the latter growth, taking place in one-fifth of the cases. The tumor often protrudes without infiltrating the edges of the opening. In the later stages (Fig. 762) the tumor may attain a large size, Fig. 762. invading the wall of the chest and the skin, and causing great pain and severe hemorrhages from the sloughing or ulcerating surface, but until this occurs the general health usually remains unaffected. Secondary tumors occur in over | one-half of the cases, and are a found in nearly all the organs of A the body, but are most frequent I in the lungs, liver, and brain. Seeondarv disease of the other Advanced sarcoma of the breast. (Case of Dr. J. B. Deaver.) breast or ot the stomach and uterus has been noted, but is very rare. When secondary tumors once develop they frequently occur in many different organs, and the patient generally succumbs rapidly to the symp- toms so produced, and dies of cachexia. The diagnosis of sarcoma is founded on its rapid growth, its soft and varying consistency, and the occasional infection of the lymph-nodes, all of which distinguish it from benign tumors. There may also be a slight in- crease in the temperature of the breast. From carcinoma it is differentiated by the greater rapidity of its growth, by the history of a sudden develop- ment of rapid growth in a tumor previously quiescent, by the indications of encapsulation, the freedom from adhesions to the skin and deeper tissues, the normal character of the nipple, and the absence of infection of the axillary glands in five-sixths of the cases. The prognosis is hopeless unless operation is undertaken, death some- times taking place within a year, and generally within three years, of the time the tumor is noticed. The results of treatment by operation are as yet in doubt, but it seems probable that from twenty-five to fifty per cent, of the cases may be saved by timely operation. Treatment.—The proper operation is excision of the breast, including the fascia of the pectoral muscle and a clearing out of the axilla. The latter should always be done, even when there is no visible sign that the glands are involved, for the same reason as in carcinoma of the breast. In the incurable cases, little or nothing can be done except to give morphine and keep the parts protected and clean. Myxoma.—Pure myxoma is not often found in the breast. It is a less malignant tumor than sarcoma, although it is to be noted that myxoma originating in the neighboring tissues may be very malignant. The tumors grow rather more slowly than sarcoma, and do not invade the lymphatics or cause metastatic deposits, but they not infrequently involve the skin, and they tend to return after operation in about one-sixth of the cases (Gross).