DRY STERILIZED GAUZE. 171 tion to the action of boiling water or of steam for thirty minutes. Gauze thus prepared should be used as soon as prepared. Sterilized gauze may also be prepared by putting rolls or pieces of gauze, cut from eight to twelve inches square, into cylindrical tin boxes, three inches in diameter and eight inches in height, with perforated metal covers, and covering the gauze at each end of the cylinder with a layer of cotton before putting on the covers. They should nest be placed in a steam sterilizer for an hour or two, and when taken out may be kept with safety for Fig. 95. some time if the cotton coverings are not disturbed. Cotton can be sterilized and kept in the same way. Dry Sterilized Gauze Dress- ings.—Dry sterilized gauze dressings are prepared by cutting gauze into proper lengths and packing it loosely in wire cages or perforated metal cans, which are next placed in a dry sterilizing-oven for several hours, and upon removal it is placed in air-tight jars or metal boxes. In using sterilized gauze dressings it is safer to have the dressings freshly steril- ized immediately before each operation. The apparatus required for the dry sterilization of dressings is expensive, and is not likely to be employed by the general practitioner, but is used largely in hospitals, where large numbers of dressings are constantly required. A Hot-air sterilizer, convenient form of sterilizing-oven is shown in Fig. 95. Towels and operating-gowns can be sterilized in the same oven. Surgical Operating-Bag.—For operations in private practice the surgeon will find it convenient to have a bag or kit containing gauze dress- ings, bichloride pellets, carbolic acid, alcohol, turpentine, ligatures, sutures, needles, syringes, a metal tray in which instruments can be boiled, a nest of agate ware basins, sponges, gauze pads, a sheet of rubber cloth, drainage- tubes, and operating-gown. These can all be packed in a comparatively small space, and when the surgeon is called upon to perform any special operation at short notice the instruments required may be selected, wrapped in a Canton flannel scroll, and placed in the bag. Much time will be saved by having the materials required in operations always in readiness in such a bag.