583 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. Fig. 514. the rectum and feeling the coccyx displaced forward. Its reduction is accomplished without difficulty by manipulation with the fingers in the rectum. After reduction the displacement is apt to recur, and if it is accompanied with much disability aud pain, the most satisfactory treat- ment consists in cutting down upon the coccyx and excising the displaced portion. DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. Dislocations of the hip have been observed at all ages, but are most fre- quent in adult life, and are more common in males than in females. The head of the femur may be primarily displaced—upward, backward, downward, and forward—and may also undergo a number of secondary displacements. The mechanism of dislocations of the hip has been very carefully described by Bigelow, who considers that the typical displacements of the hip result when the ilio-femoral or Y ligament remains untorn in whole or in part. The Y ligament consists of a mass of fibrous tissue composed of two branches, which have a common origin from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, the external portion being inserted into the outer part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, and the inner part into the internal portion of the same ridge. This ligament serves to reinforce anteriorly the capsule of the hip- joint. (Fig. 514.) Bigelow held the opinion that typical dislocations of the hip resulted when both branches of the Y ligament remained untorn, and that in irregular dislocations both branches of the Y ligament were ruptured, the head of the bone then occupying almost any position intermediate to the regular ones. Allis holds that the head of the bone in all dislocations of the hip escapes from the lower segment, and when outward is first dorsal, and then may be displaced upward or downward; when inward is first thyroid, and then may be displaced upward or downward. Dislocation of the Hip Upward and Backward (Iliac)—In this dislocation the head of the femur after escaping from the acetabulum rests upon the dorsum of the ilium. (Fig. 515.) This dislocation may result from falls upon the knee or the foot when the limb is adducted, or from force applied to the back when the pelvis is flexed upon the thighs, or from the foot and thigh being fixed while the pelvis is forcibly twisted. Symptoms.—The symptoms of iliac dislocation of the hip are flexion and adduction of the thigh, marked prominence of the great trochanter, in- version of the foot, and fixation or rigidity of the hip-joint. (Fig. 516.) There is also marked shortening of the limb, varying from one to three inches, and the head of the bone in certain cases may be felt in its abnormal position. Diagnosis.—Iliac dislocation of the hip is often confounded with frac- ture of the neck of the thigh bone, but little difficulty should be experienced if the surgeon bears in mind the facts that in dislocation of the hip the nio-femoral or Y ligament.