503 GUNSHOT FRACTURES. the joints, in which an operation is indicated, if the vessels and nerves are uninjured, excision should be preferred to amputation. Fig. 426. Gunshot fracture of the upper ex- tremity of the femur. (Army Medical Museum.) GUNSHOT FRACTURES. These constitute a very serious class of compound fractures, which may be produced by a small shot at close range, pistol- or rifle-balls, round shot, or fragments of shells. They are not only serious injuries as regards the damage to the bone itself, which may be extensively comminuted or fissured (Fig. 426), but they are often complicated by injuries of important blood-vessels or nerves. The modern rifle- ball, which is nickel-covered, at certain ranges produces marked explosive effects, while at other ranges it has great penetrating power, so that both extensive comminution and pene- tration of bone may result. The gunshot frac- tures seen in civil practice usually result from small shot, pistol-balls, and rifle-balls, and, as a rule, the damage to the bone by these mis- siles is not so extensive as that produced by the modern military ball. The damage to the bone depends upon the size, shape, compo- sition, and velocity of the ball. Gunshot fractures produced by small shot at short range, and by fragments of stone or wood in blasting accidents, are usually very serious injuries, by reason of the extensive damage inflicted upon the soft parts. It is now possible to save many cases of gunshot frac- tures which would formerly have been subjected to resection and amputation. Treatment.—The treatment of gunshot fracture does not differ mate- rially from that of compound fractures received in other ways, and, as in the latter class of injuries, depends upon the amount of injury done to the bone and surrounding soft parts. It is now recognized that the removal of the ball in cases of gunshot fractures is not the most important part of the treatment, and that extensive exploration of the wound for this purpose is unnecessary, but that antiseptic irrigation of the wound and sterilization of the surrounding parts are much more important procedures. In a gunshot fracture in which the bone has been perforated or divided without com- minution, the wound or wounds should be irrigated with bichloride solution or sterilized water, the skin surrounding the wound sterilized, a drainage- tube or strip of gauze introduced, and an antiseptic or sterilized gauze dressing afterwards applied. If the ball can be located and removed without extensive incisions or manipulations, this should be done. If loose fragments of bone are present in the wound they should be removed, but partially detached fragments should be allowed to remain. Primary fixa- tion of the fragments may be accomplished by the use of heavy wire sutures when the bone is superficial, and their introduction does not entail an exten- sive dissection of the soft parts. Drainage should always be employed in cases where there has been inuch comminution of the bone or laceration of