TUBERCULOSIS OF THE KIDNEY. 1119 Tuberculosis.—Tuberculosis generally infects the kidney by ascending from the bladder along the ureter. In some cases it is primary in the kidney, the infection being carried by the blood-vessels. It is also possible for the kidney to be involved by a local extension of a neighboring tubercu- lous focus in the bones of the spine or the ribs, or in the peritoneum or intestine, but these cases are exceedingly rare. Tuberculosis of the kidney appears under several forms, probably the most common being the miliary form, corresponding to the similar condition seen in other organs, and associated with so many lesions elsewhere that it has no practical interest for the surgeon. Single primary tubercular foci occasionally develop in the kidney, forming cheesy masses which sometimes attain a large size or degenerate into cold abscesses. In rare cases the changes may remain limited to one part of the kidney, but the disease usually involves the entire organ and spreads to the pelvis, even when it originates in the parenchyma. A common variety of tuberculosis of the kidney, however, is that due to ascendiug infection from tuberculous disease of the bladder. In these cases the gross lesions resemble those of pyonephrosis in general, except that the amount of granulation-tissue and cheesy masses makes the tumor rather solid than cystic. It is probable that a large number of cases of supposed ordinary pyonephrosis are really due to tubercular infection, as it is often impossible to demonstrate the tuberculous origin of such advanced lesions. A perinephritis may exist with the tuberculosis, being of the cold abscess type and due to infection from the kidney. If the renal disease is primary, it is likely to infect the bladder at an early date by extending along the ureter, or, without involving the latter, by attacking the bladder-wall at once. The renal focus, however, may be the primary lesion and may exist without serious tuberculous disease in any other organ of the body—a fact which is of great importance in estimating the prognosis of these cases and the possibility of a cure by removal of the kidney. Symptoms.—The symptoms of renal tuberculosis are almost invariably those of bladder disturbance, such as haematuria or frequent micturition. The latter may be due merely to increased quantity of urine or to vesical irritation. It is seldom that the diagnosis can be made (by finding bacilli in the urine, for instance) before any lesion has developed in the bladder. The symptoms referable to the kidney itself are the presence of a tumor and a feeling of lumbar uneasiness, together with the general symptoms of amcinia and cachexia characteristic of tuberculous disease. A cystoscopic examination of the bladder should always be made, and it will sometimes allow of a very early diagnosis by the discovery of minute tubercular ul- cerations near the mouth of the ureter on the affected side. The prognosis of tuberculosis of the kidney appears to be absolutely hopeless under gen- eral treatment when the symptoms are sufficiently advanced to permit a diagnosis to be made. In very early cases radical operations have effected a permanent arrest of the disease, and even when the local lesion is far advanced life may be prolonged by proper surgical treatment. Treatment.—The treatment of renal tuberculosis depends upon the ex- tent of the disease in general. If it is practically limited to one kidney, the lungs or glands being only slightly involved, nephrectomy may result in a