192 SILICATE OF POTASSIUM BANDAGE. until a dressing of the desired thickness is produced. It usually requires from twenty-four to thirty-six hours for the starched bandage to become dry and thoroughly set. The starched bandage may be employed for the same purposes as the plaster of Paris bandage, and is often available when the plaster of Paris bandage cannot be obtained. Starched bandages are re- moved in the same way as the plaster bandages. Silicate of Potassium or Sodium Bandage.—This bandage is applied by first covering the part with a flannel roller and several layers of cheese cioth or crinoline bandage ; the surface of the latter is then covered with silicate of sodium or of potassium, applied by means of a brush ; then a second layer of bandage is applied and painted over in the same manner with the silicate of sodium or of potassium, and this manipulation is con- tinued until a dressing of the desired thickness is produced. It usually requires twenty-four hours for this dressing to become firm, but we have found that by covering the silicate bandage with a layer of tissue-paper and then applying a light plaster of Paris bandage, fixation of the parts is made secure after the" setting of the plaster of Paris bandage, and this may be removed in twenty-four hours, when the silicate bandage will be found per- fectly hard. The silicate bandage may be removed with saw or shears, or may be softened by soaking in warm water, when it can be readily cut through with scissors. Raw-Hide or Leather Splints.—Splints prepared from raw hide or leather are often used in the treatment of fractures or for fixation dressings. In preparing these splints of raw hide or leather, it is necessary to apply a plaster of Paris bandage to the part to which the raw-hide splint is to be fitted, and as soon as the plaster has set it is re- moved ; a solid plaster cast is next made by greasing the inner surface of the mould and pouring in liquid plaster of Paris. When this has become dry, a piece of raw hide which has been soaked for several days in water is moulded to the cast and held firmly in contact with it by a bandage or by means of tacks until it has become perfectly dry, which often re- quires a number of days. It should then be re- moved, and its surface covered with several coats of shellac to prevent its absorbing moisture from the skin and changing its shape when applied. Eye- lets or hooks are fastened to the edges of the splint, through which strings are passed to secure it in place. Binder's Board Splints—Binder's board, which may be obtained in sheets of different thick- Binder's board splint for leg jiesses, js frequently employed for the manufacture of splints. In moulding these splints a portion of the board of the requisite size and thickness is dipped into boiling water for a short time, and when it has become softened it is removed and allowed to cool. A thick layer of cotton batting is next applied over it, and it is