448 FRACTURE OF THE ACROMION PROCESS. Fig. 349. involving this portion of the scapula are generally produced by great vio- lence, and may be partial, complete, or comminuted. Fractures of the body of the bone are usually situated below the spine. (Fig. 349.) Symptoms.—If the body of the scapula or the inferior angle is broken, crepitus and mobility may be elicited by grasping the inferior angle with one hand while with the other hand the spine of the scapula is fixed. When the spine of the scapula is fractured, the line of fracture or displacement can be ascertained by passing the fingers along the spine of the bone. In incom- plete fractures of the body of the bone it is im- possible to make an accurate diagnosis ; in com plete fractures, however, there is usually more or less deformity. Treatment.—After reducing the deformity by manipulation, a compress should be placed over the seat of fracture and held in position by Fracture of the body of thescapula. broad stripg of adhesive plaster; the arm should then be fixed against the side of the chest and held in position by a Velpeau's bandage or by the arm and chest bandage, and the arm should be immobilized, and the dressings, being changed at inter- vals, be retained for about four weeks. Fracture of the Acromion Process.—This is also a rare fracture, and may be produced by direct violence applied from above or by the head of the humerus being driven forcibly upward against the acromion. (Fig. 350.) Symptoms.—The symptoms which point to frac- ture of the acromion process are flattening of the shoul- der, disability of the arm, mobility, and crepitus. Crepitus may be obtained by placing the fingers over the acromion process and pushing the head of the humerus upward. This injury has been mistaken for dislocation of the head of the humerus ; in the latter injury the acromion process stands out boldly, while in fracture the shoulder is flattened and the process is not prominent. In fracture of the acromion process the deformity may be reduced by pushing the head of the humerus upward, but the deformity recurs when the head of the humerus is allowed to drop downward. Union in this frac- ture is usually fibrous, but in spite of this very little permanent disability results. Treatment.—In treating this fracture a folded towel should be placed between the arm and the chest; the arm should be placed vertically along the side of the chest, and the forearm should be flexed across the chest and secured firmly by the application of a Velpeau's bandage. This dressing should be retained for four weeks; the patient should theu be allowed to carry the arm in a sling for several weeks longer. Fracture of the acromion pro- cess. (Malgaigne.)