941 CARCINOMA OF THE STOMACH. Sarcoma.—Only a few cases of sarcoma have been observed, but this disease may be suspected whenever the tumor reaches a considerable size without affecting the general health, is situated on the greater curvature and not near the pylorus, and occurs in comparatively young individuals. Carcinoma.—Carcinoma is most frequently situated in the neighbor- hood of the pylorus, where even a small tumor may produce obstruction. Ulceration occurs, and may cause death by hemorrhage. The disease in- volves the glands comparatively early, and forms metastases in the liver later. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—The principal symptoms of cancer of the stomach are the presence of a tumor, with obstructive vomiting, the vomit- ing taking place some little time after eating, and occasionally at regular intervals, and the vomited matter containing undigested particles of food eaten hours or days previously. Pain may or may not be present. There may be in the later stages vomiting of a coffee-ground matter, which is the remains of partially digested blood. In order to obtain a cure by opera- tion the diagnosis must be made very early in the disease ; and yet this is exceedingly difficult, because secondary infection occurs while the tumor is still small and out of reach under the ribs, and because pain and vomiting may not occur until the disease is well advanced. The tumor in cancer of the pylorus when first discovered usually feels about the size of a small hen's egg and is more or less fixed, but it can sometimes be moved through a considerable area, being more readily pushed up than drawn down. The surface may be nodular or smooth. Hydrochloric acid, which is a natural constituent of the contents of the stomach, is diminished or absent in cancer, but this sign is not invariable, and it is also found in other diseases. The presence of lactic acid in the stomach, associated with the absence of hydro- chloric acid, adds to the certainty of the diagnosis. To ascertain these facts, "test-meals" of certain foods are given and the contents obtained by the stomach-tube for analysis. Ulcer of the stomach resembles cancer in some of its symptoms, but, as a rule, the diagnosis can be made by the fact that the patient with ulcer is usually under forty years of age, by the presence of acute pain, by the absence of obstructive vomiting—the vomiting being of an irritable type and taking place immediately after eating—and by the oc- currence of bright blood instead of coffee-ground material in the vomited matter. There will also be tenderness over the stomach and an absence of tumor, unless perforation has taken place and produced an inflammatory mass of omentum and adhesions. It is possible that the examination of the stomach by a minute electric lamp, which is passed down on an oesophageal bougie so that the light shall shine through the abdominal wall, as recently recommended, may be of use in the diagnosis of tumors of the stomach, but as yet no progress has been made in this direction. Treatment.—As between gastro enterostomy and resection in obstruc- tion of the pylorus, the former is at present the favorite operation. The mortality from resection is very high, being over fifty per cent., although in the hands of the best operators it has been steadily reduced. The mortality from gastro enterostomy is reasonably low, a large number of the deaths being attributable to the weak condition of the patient at the time. In benign obstruction of the pylorus a resection gives a permanent cure with a