1018 INTERNAL HEMORRHOIDS. bent posture, the administration of a saline purgative, and the local use of an ointment of ext. belladonna, gr. xv ; ext. opii, gr. x ; ext. hamamelidis, 51; adipis, E i, or the application of an ice cap to the inflamed tumor. Under this treatment the pain and swelling subside in two or three days. If the inflammation is not arrested and suppuration occurs in the tumor, hot appli- cations should be used, or, better, the tumor should be incised, to allow the pus to escape, for if this is not done the patient may suffer for several days before a spontaneous evacuation of the pus takes place. The radical treatment consists in incision or excision, and, as the pro- cedure is painful, local anaesthesia by cocaine or ethyl chloride may be em- ployed. Incision.—The tumor should be gently washed with soap and water, and finally with bichloride solution, and after it has been fixed with the finger it should be freely split open with a narrow, sharp bistoury, and the contained blood-clot turned out; little bleeding usually occurs, and after washing the cavity with bichloride solution a small strip of gauze is pressed into the cavity, or it may be dusted with powdered boric acid, and a gauze pad is placed over the wound and held in place by a T-bandage. The pain is quickly relieved by this procedure, and the wound is usually healed in three or four days. Excision.—This operation is especially applicable to the cutaneous variety of external hemorrhoids, and, as it is painful, and as a number of individual tumors are often to be removed at the same time, it is well to do the operation under general anaesthesia. The parts being sterilized, each tumor is grasped with forceps and two short skin- flaps are dissected from its base, and the base of the tumor is divided below the line of the flaps. The flaps are next approximated with one or two fine sutures of catgut or silk. The same procedure is repeated until all the tumors have been removed. Bleeding in this operation is usually very slight. The tumor may also be cut off, leaving a short stump close to its attachment to the skin, and the base cauterized with the point of a Paquelin cautery at a dull-red heat. The parts should next be dressed with powdered boric acid, and a gauze pad applied and held in place with a T-bandage. Internal Hemorrhoids.—These tumors arise from dilatation of the middle and superior hemorrhoidal veins, and occupy a position above the sphincter : they are of two varieties, capillary and venom hemorrhoids. The capillary hemorrhoid is a tumor made up of arteries, veins, and capil- laries, usually of moderate size and a bright-red color, with a granular sur- face, covered by a thin layer of mucous membrane. This variety of hemor- rhoid bleeds freely, and is generally found to be present in cases in which free hemorrhage is a prominent symptom. The venous hemorrhoid is a tumor composed of freely anastomosing dilated and tortuous veins which contain pouches and are bound together by connective tissue. The tumor is supplied with blood by one or more arteries of considerable size which enter at its base. Venous hemorrhoids are usually much larger than cap- illary hemorrhoids, but the two varieties may exist in the same case, a small capillary hemorrhoid growing from the surface of a venous hemorrhoid. Symptoms.—The most marked symptom of internal hemorrhoids is bleeding, which may be profuse in the capillary hemorrhoid, but is also present in venous hemorrhoids after they have existed for some time, may