273 AFFECTIONS OF STUMPS. myelitis of the stump, more or less necrosis of the bone usually results. Erysipelas may also occur in stumps, and may result in serious consequences. Mortality after Amputations.—This is influenced by various con- ditions, among which may be mentioned the nature of the injury, the age of the patient, and the various constitutional conditions which affect un- favorably other operations as well as amputations. The locality of the am- putation is important in this connection, amputations of the lower extremities being more fatal, as a rule, than those of the upper extremity, and all am- putations increasing in gravity as the point of amputation approaches the trunk. Amputations for acute affections of the bones are more fatal than those for chronic diseases of the same parts. Formerly many deaths after amputation were due to septic infection, which, however, at the present time has been reduced to a minimum by the invproved methods of wound treat- ment. The loss of blood in certain amputations, as those of the hip- and shoulder-joints, was frequently a cause of death, but the mortality following these operations has been very much diminished by the use of some of the recently introduced methods of controlling hemorrhage, and indeed in all amputations the general introduction of the method of controlling bleeding during the operation by elastic constriction has done much to reduce the mortality. If after amputation the patient escapes the primary danger from shock, and if due care has been taken as regards asepsis, the prognosis is good, as wound complications are of infrequent occurrence. Affections of Stumps.—After the cicatrization of the stump it con- tinues to undergo changes in structure for a long time ; the muscles waste and are converted into dense fibro-cellular tissue ; the same changes occur in the tendons ; the bone is rounded off and its medullary cavity becomes filled up ; the vessels are obliterated to a certain distance and are converted into fibrous cords ; the nerves become thickened or bulbous at their extremities, and in time the whole stump becomes more or less wasted. Spasm of Muscles.—This affection is sometimes observed after ampu- tation, and usually occurs shortly after the operation. The most marked cases of this condition, however, occur where amputations have been per- formed in patients suffering from chorea; in other cases persistent or choreic spasms have developed after stumps have permanently healed. Mechanical Ulcer.—This consists in a chronic form of ulceration at the end of a stump, and generally results from insufficient flaps or from undue retraction of the muscles after amputation has been performed. Mechanical ulcer may be treated by bandaging, by the application of an extension apparatus, or by re-amputation. Conical Stump.—This is chiefly seen in amputations of the upper part of the arm or leg in children, and does not, as a rule, result from the flaps having been of insufficient length, but is accounted for by the physiological fact that the principal growth of the arm is from the upper epiphysis of the humerus, and that of the leg from the upper epiphysis of the tibia, and, as the growth of the bone from these epiphyses is more active than that of the surrounding soft parts, the bone is projected through the parts and pro- duces a typical conical stump. (Figs. 194, 195.) A conical stump gener- ally requires re-amputation. 18