FRACTURES OF THE STERNUM. 441 Fractures of the Costal Cartilages.—These fractures are occasion- ally met with. The cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs appear to be the ones most commonly broken, and there is generally some outward dis- placement of either the sternal or the vertebral end of the cartilage. These fractures usually result from force directly applied, or from pressure upon the anterior and posterior portions of the chest. The repair of fractures of the costal cartilages is by a ferrule of bone which surrounds the fragments. Symptoms.—The prominent signs of fracture of the costal cartilages are pain, which is increased with respiratory movements, deformity, which usually consists in undue prominence at the seat of fracture, mobility, and soft crepitus. Treatment.—This is the same as that for fractures of the ribs. Fractures of the Sternum.—Fractures of the sternum are rare inju- ries, from the fact that the bone has elastic attachments which allow it a considerable amouut of motion. As a complete joint sometimes exists between the manubrium and the body, it is often impossible to say whether the injury is a diastasis or a fracture. The seat of fracture may be in the manubrium or at the junction of the latter with the body (Fig. 340), or the body of the bone may be broken, or the xiphoid cartilage may be detached. The displacement in this fracture depends upon the fracturing force. When produced by extreme exten- sion of the body, the lower fragment may be displaced forward and overlap the upper one; when, however, it is produced by flexion, the upper fragment takes a position in front of the lower one. When produced by direct force, the fragments may be driven inward. Symptoms.—The most prominent symptom of fracture of the sternum is pain at the seat of injury, which is aggravated by a full respiratory movement, by pressure, or by coughing; crepitus may also be detected, and occasionally emphysema may be observed if the lung has been injured by the fragments. In fractures of the xiphoid cartilage accompanied by inward displacement per- sistent vomiting is said to be a not infrequent symptom. We had under our care recently a boy who had received a kick in the epigastrium and exhibited an inward displacement of the xiphoid cartilage, in whom this symptom was very prominent for some weeks, but finally disappeared. Complications.—The most serious complication in fracture of the ster- num is inward displacement of the fragments, causing injury of the lung, and accompanied by emphysema, dyspnoea, and expectoration of blood; abscess also may follow fracture of the sternum, which may point at the lat- eral margins of the sternum or at the xiphoid cartilage. Compound fractures of the sternum may be followed by abscess or necrosis of the bone. Treatment.—If displacement of the fragments is present in fractures of the sternum, attempts should be made to relieve the displacement by exten- sion or flexion of the body and by manipulation with the fingers. If the de- Fig. 340. Fracture at the junction of the manubrium with the body of the sternum. (Mal- gaigne.)