L>4 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. ration takes place before the connective-tissue cells proliferate, and hence must be due to the action of the lymphocytes. However this may be, a sec- tion through the point of separation shows on the one side dead slough, on the other living tissue infiltrated with cells and other products of inflam- mation, and at the point of juncture (or of separation) the connecting fibres are surrounded by compact masses of lymphocytes, some dead, some living, many containing detritus (granules, fatty globules) which they have taken up from the slough, while the fibi'es are apparently undergoing rapid dis- solution, owing to the solvent properties of the fluids and probably also to the phagocytosis of the cells. When inflammation has subsided, granula- tion-tissue forms on the living tissue directed towards the slough, and the fibres are destroyed in some way by its vital action. This process is most readily studied in necrosis of bone, and will be further dealt with under that head. Chronic Inflammation.—The third termination of inflammation is the interruption at some stage of its resolution or suppuration and the con- tinuance of the remainder of the symptoms and pathological changes in this lessened intensity for a more or less protracted time—in other words, the development of chronic inflammation. By chronic inflammation we un- derstand a long continuance of some or all of the changes seen in acute inflammation, but in less intensity, and with a tendency to the production of new tissue by proliferation of the fixed cells of the part affected. This thickening of the tissues is due to the unusual amount of nutrition afforded the cells of the region. As a sequel of acute inflammation, the chronic form is due to a diminished intensity of the original irritation, to the fact that the cells have become accustomed to it, or to changes in the cells produced by the long battle against the irritation, the cells being so perverted that they cannot at once return to their natural state. But chronic inflammation is sometimes observed to arise independently, without a preliminary acute stage, as the result of certain irritants similar to those which excite the acute form, but not so intense, or acting upon tissues which are better able to resist, and responding only by the lower grade of reaction. The pathological changes in chronic inflammation vary with the original cause, and with the tissues affected, more than do those of the acute form. There is an increased vascularity, chiefly noted in the venous capillaries, and unusual richness of cells in the tissues. All the tissues are thick- ened—the connective-tissue stroma, the walls of the blood- and lymph- vessels, the endothelium, the epithelium, the periosteum, etc. There is an extension of ossification into parts normally not ossified, and a softening and breaking down of normal bone uuder the influence of the proliferation of cells. In the latter changes the effect appears paradoxical, but in both cases it is due to the abnormal cell-life, for the quiescent bone-cells tend to return to the embryonal active state and to absorb the bone-salts about them, while the quiescent connective-tissue and periosteal cells are roused to unusual activity and produce new bone at the edges of the inflamma- tory area, where the irritation is less intense and does not prevent deposi- tion of bone. These changes in the tissues are evidently largely conserva- tive, for the abundant cell-production and thickening of the tissues not