SYPHILITIC PERIOSTITIS. 514 Treatment.—As soon as the affection is recognized, the patient should be given those remedies which are known to possess antitubercular proper- ties, such as cod-liver oil and iodide of iron, and also nutritious and easily assimilated food; he should be in the fresh ah- as much as possible, and should have a change of climate. The local condition may be treated by the injection of iodoform emulsion into the infected tissues, the injections being repeated, at intervals of a week, for some time, which may be followed by the arrest of the tubercular process. If a tubercular abscess has formed, it should be aspirated, and when the contents have been removed the cavity should be injected with iodoform emulsion. If, however, the abscess has rup- tured and a sinus remains which discharges continually, or if the local con- dition fails to improve in spite of the iodoform injections, the parts should be freely exposed by incision, under rigid aseptic precautions, and the dis- eased tissues removed with a gouge or curette, and if the superficial layers of the bone are involved they should also be removed. The resulting wound should be loosely packed with iodoform gauze or with gauze saturated with iodoform emulsion ; this dressing should be renewed at intervals. Treated in this way, the wound will often heal satisfactorily. Syphilitic Periostitis.—This is one of the later manifestations of syphilitic infection, which may be seen in acquired syphilis or in hereditary syphilis. The most common seats of the periosteal inflammation are the shafts of the long bones ; the anterior surface of the tibia is a favorite local- ity, as are the bones of the cranium. Two distinct pathological processes may oecur in syphilitic periostitis : the granulation-tissue may be converted into osseous tissue, causing marked thickening and deformity of the under- lying bone, or gummata may develop, which may soften so that fluctuation can be elicited. These softening gummata are often mistaken for abscesses and opened, and, if infection occurs, are apt to suppurate freely and be followed by more or less necrosis of the underlying bone. Symptoms.—In syphilitic periostitis the pain is usually severe, and is worse at night, which is a characteristic symptom of this affection, and at the same time the patient may exhibit other symptoms of syphilitic infec- tion. It is most likely to be confounded with tubercular periostitis, but the pain in the latter affection is usually wanting, and other evidences of syphilis may be present which will aid in making the diagnosis. In obscure cases the patient should be put upon antisyphilitic treatment and its effect noted. Treatment.—The treatment consists in the administration of iodide of potassium in full doses, or of iodide of mercury or corrosive sublimate in small doses combined with the iodide of potassium, and in the gumma- tous variety of the affection the results are most marked, the pain and thickening usually soon disappearing. In the variety, however, in which hypertrophy and deformity of bone have occurred, although the pain may be relieved and the progress of the disease arrested, the deformity and thickening do not seem to be much affected by the use of internal treat- ment. The local treatment consists in the application of equal parts of mercury and belladonna to the gummatous swellings, which, combined with the constitutional treatment before mentioned, often seems to hasten their