955 TREATMENT OF APPENDICITIS. Prognosis.—The prognosis depends upon the variety of the appendi- citis. In the ordinary form it has been estimated that out of seven cases severe enough to be marked by the presence of a tumor, in which operation is limited to opening abscesses, five will resolve under medical treatment, one will form an abscess which will require operation, and one will have a general peritonitis and die. But all the cases of abscess will not be saved by this late operation, so that the mortality would be even greater than one case in seven, and the prognosis under our present methods of early operation is much better than this estimate. Ultimate recovery is not always obtained in those cases which are supposed to have recovered under medical treat- ment, as fecal fistulae may result from the bursting of an abscess externally when it already connects with the bowel, or pyaemia may develop from abscesses even after they have discharged themselves into the bowel or externally, and in many cases recurrence takes place. Treatment.—In selecting the proper treatment it is important to de- cide, if possible, which variety of the disease is present, The ordinary colic requires merely a dose of morphine to relieve the spasm, operation being- resorted to only when the case resists ordinary medical treatment and the attacks become frequent. The resolving form, whether catarrhal or ulcer- ative, without a perforation and without the formation of abscesses, is to be treated with cold applications locally, light diet, and rest in bed. As soon as it is certain that no abscess will form, a light purgative may be given. An abscess should be suspected when the pain continues in spite of moderate doses of morphine, when vomiting persists or returns after a temporary cessation, or when a distinct tumor can be felt. The temperature is an uncertain guide, but a rapid pulse is a reliable sign of suppuration. The pus is to be discharged as soon as its presence is certain, for there is con- stant danger that the abscess may burst or that general septic infection may take place. Pus will be found at the end of forty-eight hours in the majority of cases. Delay is certain to result in more extensive adhesions, greater damage to the surrounding parts, and loss of strength to the patient. Gen- eral peritonitis requires immediate laparotomy unless the prostration is so great that operation would certainly cause death. These cases are some- times difficult to recognize, as they may begin with the symptoms of an ordinary gastro enteritis, but general peritonitis may be suspected from the rapid loss of strength, the sudden development of shock, the beginning tympanites, or the violent vomiting. No tumor is found, as a rule, and pain is not a reliable symptom in these cases, being in some instances very severe, in others very slight. As a rule, the presence of severe pain indi- cates a better prognosis, for pain is frequently absent in cases of peritoneal septicaemia. Operations.—In the great majority of cases of appendicitis an abscess will be found at the time of operation, and the treatment of the latter is to be conducted on the principles previously laid down for localized peritonitis, page 927. If general peritonitis is present, a laparotomy should be done as described on page 928. The best incision for reaching abscesses in appendi- citis is a vertical one at the outer border of the right rectus muscle, extend- ing downward from the level of the umbilicus. But it should always be