921 SUTURE OF STOMACH AND INTESTINE. In of ligatures may then be passed, the adjacent loops interlocking ; or a cob bier's stitch may be made with a blunt needle on each end of the thread which is run back and forth through the ligament and the ends tied, operations upon very vascular organs, such as the uterus and spleen, a tem- porary ligature, usually of rubber cord, is applied around the pedicle and a bloodless field of operation thus obtained. Care must be taken in passing the ligatures that ureters and other organs are not constricted by them. Count of Instruments, etc.—The number of instruments and of pads or sponges in use during a laparotomy should be noted before the operation, and they should be counted afterwards, in order to make sure that none are left in the abdominal cavity—an accident which is very likely to occur. It is an excellent plan to have a long tape fastened to each pad or sponge, the tape being left hanging out of the wound when the pad is placed in the abdomen, as it is then less likely to be overlooked. Suture of Stomach and Intestine.—As it has been shown that the peritoneal surfaces unite very rapidly, the best suture for uniting wounds involving this membrane is the Lembert su- ture (Figs. 769 and 770), which includes only Fig. 770. the serous membrane and a little of the sub- jacent tissue without penetrating the cavity of any hollow organ, and thus brings serous sur- faces in apposition. These sutures may be in- Fig. 769. Lembert sutures in circular suture of the intestine. (Agnew.) Section of the intestine through a longitudinal wound united by two tiers of Lembert sutures. (Agnew.) terrupted or continuous, and passed in the ordinary manner or like a quilted suture. (Fig. 771.) In closing wounds of hollow organs a suture should first be made passing entirely through the thickness of their wall in order to hold the parts firmly together, and then the Lembert suture is applied outside, inverting the first tier and covering it over completely. A cir- cular suture of the intestine should always be- gin at the mesenteric border, and a portion of the mesentery may be resected in order to make nice apposition, but this is seldom neces- sary. The mesentery must be left attached to the bowel right up to the edge of the wound, or necrosis will result. Whenever the stomach or intestine is opened in a laparotomy its con- tents should be prevented from escaping by compression by the assistant's fingers, by a strip of gauze tied around it, or by a special clamp, in order to w w Continuous quilted Lembert suture. (Agnew.)