1088 DIVERTICULA OF THE BLADDER. to emerge through, and turning it up over the defect, but this method brings a portion of skin which is naturally covered with hair into the interior of the bladder, which is a serious defect, as the hair would become iacrusted with urinary salts. Thiersch's method has many advocates, and consists in cutting a bridge-like lateral flap on each side, each flap being nearly large enough to cover the defect entirely. These flaps are detached from the subcutaneous tissues, and, tin foil having been slipped underneath, they are left for a week and the under surface allowed to granulate, during which the flaps shrink somewhat in size. The upper end of one bridge- flap is cut away, and the lower end of the other. The first flap is used to cover the lower part of the defect, while the other covers the upper part, the two being united transversely where their edges meet, and their granulating surfaces being turned towards the bladder. When there is wide separation of the pubic bones, Trendelenburg approximates them by dividing the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and Passavant crowds the separated ends together without division by a broad pelvic band to which heavy weights are at- tached, before any attempt is made to cover in the defect. The subsequent plastic work is thus rendered simpler, as the bladder is more easily inverted. These operations must often be followed by plastic work for epispadias. If operation is impossible the treatment is limited to the protection of the parts with a hard rubber cup, which furnishes at the same time a receptacle for the urine, and is held in place by an abdominal belt or truss. This appa- ratus is, however, very unsatisfactory, as it is impossible to make it fit water- tight, Hernia.—The bladder is not infrequently found in hernia through the inguinal, femoral, and obturator openings, and has been wounded during operations for the radical cure of hernia. The presence of the bladder may be suspected when the size of the hernia varies with micturition, and when pressure upon it causes the desire to urinate. The prolapsed portion may consist of the intraperitoneal or extraperitoneal part of its wall, or of both. Most frequently it is found forming a part of the hernial sac, and strangula- tion may take place, but this accident is very rare. Examination of the bladder with a sound or distention with fluid may prove the connection be- tween it and the hernia. The bladder may prolapse through the dilated urethra in the female and resemble a polypoid tumor in rare cases. Diverticula.—Congenital diverticula of the bladder are occasionally met with, and the most common of these is formed by the urachus, the cavity of which extends to the umbilicus in the foetus, but should be en- tirely obliterated duriug development, so that no trace of it remains. In in- fancy an indication of the situation of the urachus is very common in the rather pointed shape of the fundus of the bladder, but in the adult the latter is usually broad and flat. The urachus may remain patent throughout, so that urine is discharged at the umbilicus (some congenital obstruction of the urethra generally being present), or it may be partially patent, being ob- literated at either end. Occasionally it closes at both ends and the inter- mediate part forms a cyst, but this is a great rarity. More commonly the vesical end closes, while the umbilical remains open, and a congenital sinus lined with epithelial tissue is formed, which is of little moment, although