COURSE OF ANEURISM. 358 artery. Palpation shows a pulsation synchronous with the heart-beat, and different from that of a tumor or an abscess situated over the artery by being expansile in character, due to its distention in all directions by the blood passing through it. Pressure on the artery above diminishes or checks this pulsation and causes a reduction in size. Eemoval of the pressure causes a return of pulsation as soon as the sac is filled ; that is, after one or two heart-beats, and not immediately, as in the case of an overlying tumor. As deposition of clot takes place, pulsation becomes indistinct, or may be alto- gether lost. Fluctuation is usually present early in the case, and the blood can be easily squeezed out; but later, as fibrin forms inside the sac, this symptom disappears. A thrill is sometimes felt, but is not constant, as is the case in arterio-venous aneurisms. Auscultation with the stethoscope gives a peculiar sound, called a bruit, synchronous with the heart-beat, and either soft and blowing or loud and rasping in nature. It is due to the pas- sage of blood under altered conditions of pressure, and is transmitted along the artery beyond the aneurism. Compression of a normal vessel will often cause it, and it is heard over some vascular malignant tumors, iu the latter case not being transmitted. The character of the pulse in the vessel below is altered ; a pulse-tracing shows a loss of the impulse and of the dicrotic wave, and a diminution in the force and rapidity of the tidal wave. This is due to the conversion of the intermittent current into a continuous one by the pressure of the blood in the elastic sac. The circulation in the limb beyond often suffers serious changes, due to pressure of the aneurism on the contiguous veins, causing varicosities, oedema, or even gangrene; or these symptoms may occasionally be due to the pressure of the sac upon the vessel from which it springs. In internal aneurism many of the objective symptoms are wanting, although, if it attains large dimensions, it may become subcutaneous or even rupture externally. Course and Termination.—The tendency of an aneurism is generally towards an increase in size, the exception being in the case of a few of the fusiform variety. This enlargement is generally more rapid in the saccu- lated form, and may terminate in several ways—viz., inflammation, rupture, gangrene, syncope, and death by pressure on other organs. Spontaneous cure sometimes takes place, either by the formation of a laminated clot with cessation of growth and disappearance of pulsation followed by contraction, with partial or complete obliteration of the vessel, or by sudden plugging of the artery by a portion of a detached clot or by clot en masse, perhaps as the result of inflammation or occlusion of the artery, and with subsequent contraction and obliteration. Inflammation.—Mild inflammation is a not infrequent transitory symp- tom, and is marked by slight tenderness and redness. In its severe suppu- rative form it is an exceedingly dangerous complication. Suppuration may take place either in or around the sac, and is indicated by a lessening of pul- sation and bruit, increase of oedema, and loss in distinctness of outline ; pain and redness are present in a more marked degree, fever and chills show constitutional infection, and rupture of the abscess results in an escape of chocolate-colored pus, clotted blood, and later in a free arterial hemorrhage.