832 STRABISMUS. Pulsating Exophthalmos.—This name is applied to a variety of conditions in which the most prominent symptoms are exophthalmos, pul- sation, and a bruit which is heard not only over the eyeball itself, but over the entire skull-cap. In addition, there may be intense venous hyperemia of the posterior conjunctival vessels, enlargement of the cutaneous veins, retinitis, retinal hemorrhages, and optic neuritis. At one time such phenomena were supposed to be due to aneurism of the orbit, but it has been demonstrated that proptosis, pulsation, and bruit may be caused by extra-orbital aneurism of the ophthalmic artery, aneurism of the internal carotid, and aneurismal varix, involving the internal carotid and the cavernous sinus. The last-named lesion—namely, arterio-venous communication—is the one most frequently responsible for these phenomena. Not far from two hundred cases are on record, and traumatism is responsible for at least sixty per cent, of them. Ordinarily the exophthalmos is unilat- eral, appearing on the same side as the lesion, but bilateral vascular protru- sion has been noted in a number of instances, for example, in one reported by the author. Somewhat similar symptoms are caused by pulsating angioma and sarcoma of the orbit. True vascular protrusion caused by arterio-venous communication between the internal carotid and the cavernous sinus is best treated by ligation of the common carotid. If this is declined, compression, with or without the administration of iodide of potassium, may be tried. Strabismus, or Squint.—Only very brief mention of this important topic is possible. Strabismus includes those conditions in which the visual axis of one eye is directed away from the point of fixation. It may be con- vergent, divergent, upward, or downward. Furthermore, the squint may be concomitant—that is, the squinting eye is able to follow the movements of the other eye in all directions—or paralytic—that is, there is limitation of movement in the direction of the action of the affected muscle. Concomitant Convergent Strabismus.—This is the ordinary "crossed eye," and may be permanent or periodic, monolateral or alternating. In general terms, concomitant squint is due to a disturbance of the relation which exists between the power of accommodation of the eyes and their power of convergence, caused by errors of refraction ; in convergent squint, usually by hypermetropia; in divergent squint, generally by myopia. Many other causes and theories have been advanced to explain squint. For their full consideration the student must refer to ophthalmic works. Quite commonly the squinting eye is amblyopic, and this amblyopia has been regarded as the cause of the squint. Concomitant squint must be distinguished from paralytic strabismus, which may be caused by syphilis, rheumatism, diphtheria, poisons, and diseases of the brain, especially at its base. In a paralytic strabismus there is lim- itation of the movement of the affected eye in the direction of the paralyzed muscle, and commonly double vision. By a study of the double images the surgeon is enabled to diagnosticate the affected muscle. The treatment of concomitant convergent strabismus includes, first, thorough mydriasis with atropine, during which the refractive error should be carefully measured and suitable glasses provided. If these fail to