LIGATURES IN VASCULAR GROWTHS. 211 Fig. 154. Single ligature applied with pin. Single Ligature.—This is applied by inserting a harelip pin through the skin near the edges of the growth, passing it under the growth, and bring- ing its point out through the skin opposite the point of entry ; a strong silk or hemp ligature is then passed under the ends of the pin, surrounding the base of the tumor, is drawn tightly enough to strangulate the growth, and is secured by two knots. (Fig. 154.) If the growth is of considerable size, it is better before applying the ligature to introduce a second pin at right angles with the first one and then secure the ligature under the ends of the pins. In applying this ligature, the separation of the mass is hastened by cutting a groove in the skin with a knife at the point where the ligature is to be applied ; the ligature when tied is buried in the groove thus made. The Double Ligature.—This ligature is applied by passing a needle, or a needle with a handle, armed with a double ligature, through the skin near the growth, and then passing it under the tumor and bringing it out through the skin at a point directly opposite the point of insertion ; the ligature is then divided and the needle is removed. The growth is strangulated by tying firmly the corresponding ends of the ligature on each side of the tumor, each ligature including one-half of the growth. The double ligature may also be applied by passing a pin under the growth and then passing a needle armed with a double thread under the tumor at right angles to the pin. After removing the needle the ends of the ligature are tied and the tumor is strangulated in two sections. (Fig. 155.) Quadruple Ligature.—In applying this ligature two needles, each carrying a double ligature, are passed under the growth at right angles to each other ; the needles being removed, the surgeon ties two ends of the liga- ture together, and repeats the procedure until the growth has been strangulated in four sections. Subcutaneous Ligature.—The subcutaneous liga- ture is applied by introducing a needle armed with a ligature through the skin near the growth, and carrying it through the subcutaneous tissues around the growth for a short distance, then bringing it out through the skin. The needle is again introduced through the same puncture and again brought out through the skin at the same dis- tance from the first point of exit, and is next introduced through this puncture and brought out at a more distant point. In this way the growth is completely encircled by a subcutaneous ligature, which is finally brought out at the point of entrance. The tumor is strangulated by firmly tying together the ends of the ligature. Double ligature. Subcutaneous ligature.