PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 220 Fig. 159. Skiagraph of a needle in the hand. the sloughs have separated, when an ointment of boric acid may be sub- stituted. Punctured Wounds.—These wounds are produced by thrusts from pointed instruments, such as knives, swords, bayonets, nails, splinters of wood or metal, wire, sticks, or needles, and their depth is much greater than their super- ficial area. The character of a punctured wound depends upon the object by which it is prodiiced. The wound resulting from the puncture of a knife or of a narrow strip of metal or glass will resemble an incised wound, while that resulting from a rough stick or splinter or from the ferrule of a cane will be a contused or a lacerated wound. Punctured wounds produced by clean and smooth instruments, unless important vessels or nerves have been injured or important cavities penetrated, are accompanied by no more risk than incised wounds, and heal as promptly. If, however, the wound is pro- duced by a rough or an infected instrument, or if vessels have been divided, suppuration is more likely to occur than in open wounds, and is liable to spread widely through the tissues. If important vessels are divided, hemorrhage occurs, and the punc- tured wound of an artery may give rise to a traumatic aneurism, or the sim- ultaneous puncture of a vein and an artery in close proximity may cause an arterio-venous aneurism or an aneurysmal varix. The instrument inflicting the punctured wound may break, and a portion of it remain in the wound and cause subsequent irritation. A common form of punctured wound is caused by a needle penetrating the body and a portion breaking off and re- maining in the tissues. (Fig. 159.) Treatment.—Punctured wounds produced by clean, smooth instruments usually heal promptly, and their treatment consists in irrigating the parts to secure asepsis, and applying an aseptic or an antiseptic dressing. In a punctured wound in which free bleeding occurs, or in which the region of the wound is stuffed with blood, it is necessary to enlarge the wound and turn out the clotted or fluid blood and find the injured vessel, complete its division if only partly divided, and secure its ends by means of ligatures. In punctured wounds made by rough or infected instruments, the wounds should be enlarged by free incisions and irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichlo- ride solution, a drainage-tube being inserted if necessary, and the wounds should be dressed with sterilized or bichloride gauze. In a punctured wound in which the penetrating body has broken and a portion of it remains in the tissues, the wound should be enlarged and the foreign body sought for and removed. In searching for foreign bodies in punctured wounds, such as needles, or splinters of wood or of metal, the