783 SALIVARY FISTULA. Fig. 693. The bursse which normally exist between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, or above the hyoid bone between the muscles of the tongue, are liable to inflammation. A diagnosis between these bursal swellings and the cysts which originate from the thyro- glossal duct may be impossible. Sacs containing air are found in the neigh- borhood of the larynx in rare cases, being produced by a sort of hernial protrusion of the mucous membrane, generally originating in the ventricles between the true and false cords. These sacs sometimes reach the size of a man's fist on forcible expiration, and can be emptied by compression. Their disten- tion can be prevented by compressive bandages, but once formed they can be cured only by completely dissecting out the wall of the sac and ligating the pedicle which communicates with the larynx. Congenital sinuses are not infre- quent in the neck, occurring in the lines of the branchial clefts, which have been described in speaking of bran- chial cysts (page 84). These sinuses penetrate to various depths, some- times reaching the pharynx, and then usually opening near the posterior pillars of the fauces. They cause no symptoms except a slight mucous discharge, but the annoyance may be sufficient to warrant their extirpation. It is generally impossible to destroy the epithelial lining thoroughly by cauterization, but this method of treatment may be attempted. The ex- ternal orifice becomes closed occasionally, and the retained secretions de- compose, inflammation is set up, and the sinus forms a chronic abscess. ('arcinoma of cervical glands. THE SALIVARY GLANDS. Injuries. Salivary Fistula.—Contusions and wounds of these glands are not important, for they heal readily and with only a temporary discharge of saliva, but a division of Steno's duct may result in a permanent salivary fistula opening on the surface of the skin, which is irritated by the discharge, or in a stricture of the duct. The injury to the duct is proved by the discharge of saliva from the wound or by the passage of a probe into it from the orifice of the duet in the mouth. The fistula is very difficult to cure, especially if the passage of the duct to the mouth is entirely closed. Treatment.—An opening into the mouth is formed by passing a stout silk suture with a needle at each end from the fistula into the mouth, trans- fixing the entire thickness of the cheek, and tying the two ends of the liga- ture tightly within the mouth. (Fig. 694.) If the oral end of the duct is patent, one of the ends of the thread should be passed through it, and the other through the tissues a quarter of an inch distant. The thread slowly cuts its way through, and the epithelium follows in the track of the ligature