TUMORS OF THE NECK. 782 by an incision from the mastoid process downward towards the acromion along the anterior border of the trapezius. Two or more of these regions will often require operation at the same time. Very careful dissection is frequently necessary in separating the glands from the vessels and nerves. Every gland should be removed, as any that are left will enlarge later, and glands will appear even when the extirpation has seemed complete. If the glands are too soft to be extirpated entire by the knife and scis- sors they should be thoroughly scraped out with a sharp curette. If a cold abscess has formed, it can often be cured by aspiration and injection of the sac with iodoform glycerin; but this should not be attempted until the entire gland has broken down, leaving only the capsule as a sac. The treatment of the sinuses left by tuberculous glandular abscesses is very un- satisfactory. A thorough application of tincture of iodine or pure carbolic acid will occasionally cure them. If this fails, the sinus should be scraped out with a sharp spoon or completely excised, the last method being gen- erally necessary if any remains of glandular tissue exist about it. Tumors of the Neck.—The various tumors occur in the neck, but they gain additional interest on account of the important relations which they sustain to important vessels and nerves. Se- baceous cysts are very common, especially upon the nape of the neck. Li- poma is frequent, espe- cially in the diffuse form, and angioma also. (Fig. 692.) Malignant disease of the skin of the neck is a rarity; but sarcoma is quite common, origi- nating from the fascia or the glands, and second- ary carcinoma of the lymphatic glands is very common. (Fig. 693.) The congenital tumors of the neck have already been sufficiently described in the account of dermoid and branchial cysts. Solid tumors may also develop from these foetal remains, especially from the so-called carotid gland—a mass of lymphatic tissue in the fork of the carotids. In making the diag- nosis of the various tumors of the neck, due account must be taken of the rapidity of their development, the age of the patient, the various symp- toms produced by their pressure upon the nerves and vessels or by their mechanical interference with respiration or swallowing, the shape and con- sistency of the tumor, and the extent to which the skin and the lymph- glands are involved. The diagnosis must depend chiefly upon the particular organ or tissue in which the tumor has its origin. The lymphatic glands will be found to furnish the greatest number of tumors, including simple hypertrophy. Deep-seated non-encapsulated angioma of the neck, involving the muscles but not the skin.