REST AND DIET AFTER OPERATIONS. 129 vacillating surgeon does not secure the confidence of the patient or his friends. The development of unexpected complications during an opera- tion should not cause the surgeon to lose his head, for should he do so the assistants are also apt to become demoralized, and the safety of the patient is thereby much endangered ; indeed, we know of no attribute of the surgeon which is worthy of greater admiration than that steadfastness which in the face of great and unexpected danger during operations enables him to act. with coolness and judgment. The surgeon is often placed in a perplexing position in regard to the con- sent of the patient in operations of urgency, such as primary amputations, herniotomy, tracheotomy, operations which must necessarily be performed promptly to save life. No surgeon should undertake such an operation upon a patient who is in his right mind and refuses to give his consent to its performance. In children or minors it is unwise to operate without the consent of the parents or guardians. Fortunately, in private practice this complication is not apt to arise, as the parents or guardians are usu- ally present, but frequently children are injured at a distance from their homes and brought to hospitals ; in such cases, where immediate operation is required as a life-saving measure, if efforts to find the parents are un- successful, the surgeon should perform the operation and place himself in loco parentis, fortifying his position, if possible, by a consultation with his colleagues. In the case of an intoxicated person who requires operation, and whom it is impossible to make understand what is to be done, or who refuses his consent to its performance, it is well, if possible, to wait until the patient regains his senses; but if this is impossible, the consent of near relatives may be obtained, or if this cannot be clone, and the operation is urgently demanded, the surgeon must assume the responsibility of the oper- ation. In the case of an insane or unconscious person the case should be decided upon the same grounds. Rest and Diet after Operations.—The surgeon should give explicit directions as regards the management of the patient after serious injuries or operations. A patient who has undergone a serious operation or re- ceived a severe injury should be kept at rest in bed with the best hygienic surroundings, and should not be subjected to any excitement; his diet should be simple, and for a few days, at least, should consist of milk and broths ; the former is to be preferred if it can be taken ; the addition of a little lime water to the milk is often an advantage if there is an irritable condition of the stomach. After a few days, if the patient craves solid food, he may be given a more liberal diet, but it should consist of plain, easily digested, and nutritious food. Causes of Death after Operations.—The consideration of the causes of death after operations must always be a matter of the greatest interest to the practical surgeon. Every surgeon appreciates the fact that a certain number of patients die after operations from causes directly or indirectly traceable to the operation. These deaths do not always occur in the weak and exhausted only, but also in those who before operation were consid- ered most favorable subjects, nor is the fatal termination in many of these cases in any way due to a lack of skill in the operator. The principal 9