FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 481 tension strips of plaster well up on the thigh, fearing that if they extended only to the knee-joint the ligaments would be injured, but in using the strips only to the knee in a large number of cases we have never found any damage to result. A block of wood about five inches in length and three inches in width is fastened to the middle of this strip of plaster, and is secured in position by a short strip of plaster of the same width, about twelve inches in length. This block is secured by wrapping it with a few strips of plaster. The strip of plaster, being heated, is attached to the outer and inner sides of the leg from the knee to just above the mal- leoli. It is secured by three bands of plaster carried around the leg, one applied just above the malleoli, the second about the middle of the leg, and the third just below the knee. A roller bandage is applied to the foot and leg, to give additional fixation to the plaster. (Fig. 402.) A Fig. 402. Application of the extension apparatus. piece of cord is next secured in a perforation in the block below the foot. The patient being placed in the recumbent position in bed upon a firm mattress, lateral support is given to the limb by means of a short internal sand-bag extending from the perineum to the sole of the foot, and a long external sand-bag extending from the axilla to the external malleolus. Eversion of the foot is corrected by rotating the thigh inward, and the cor- rected position is maintained by apposition of the external sand-bag. A weight of from five to eight pounds is attached to the cord and secured to the block in the extension apparatus. (Fig. 403.) If this dressing is well borne, it should be kept in position for from four to six weeks; the pa- tient should then be allowed to sit up in bed, and finally to get out of bed and use crutches, bearing at first very little weight upon the injured limb. If, however, the recumbent posture and the confinement in bed affect the patient unfavorably before this period, it may be necessary to abandon all 31