ADENOMA. 114 sarcoma, and the neighboring glands of the region should also be removed, even if no visible sign of disease is present. In the case of sarcoma of one of the extremities, amputation is often necessary, in order to remove the tumor or because its complete removal would leave a useless limb. If attempts are made to extirpate the tumor and save the limb, the surgeon is apt to err on the side of conservatism. When the long bones are involved, the entire bone should be removed at the joint above, whether the tumor be periosteal or central. It is true that the giant-cell tumors seem to be rather less malignant, and a cure has been obtained in some cases by partial re- moval of the bone. The many failures observed in the treatment of malig- nant tumors by the most thorough operations, however, indicate that prudence should compel us to do too much rather than too little until our means of controlling this disease improve. Eesection of the shaft of a bone, there- fore, cannot be recommended, nor amputation through the middle of a long bone, even when the distal extremity only is involved. Large doses of arsenic have been used in the treatment of lymphosarcoma, and hypoder- matic injections of that substance into the glands have been made, but cures have very rarely been obtained. Erysipelas-inoculation.—A considerable number of cases are on record in which sarcoma or carcinoma has disappeared after attacks of erysipelas, and the effect of erysipelas in producing this result cannot be denied. Attempts have been made to utilize this effect by inoculating patients with erysipelas, but the results were uncertain and the risk was considerable, the erysipelas being very difficult to control and often ending fatally. On the supposition that the effects of erysipelas upon malignant tumors were due to the toxines of the streptococcus which caused the inflammation, attempts have been made to produce similar effects by injecting a sterilized pure culture into the tumor. Coley finds that the addition of a culture of the bacillus prodigiosus to the injected material increases the effect. The result of these injections is a severe chill and a rise of temperature, but no inflammation is set up if the injections are sterile. In a few cases sarco- mata have been observed to disappear after these injections, but the method of treatment has proved very unsatisfactory, and the majority of surgeons of experience think the results are too uncertain to warrant the necessary risk. In cases suitable for operation the method should not be thought of, as operation gives far better results, but in tumors which cannot be re- moved it may be tried as an experiment, although it must be remembered that the weakening effect of the treatment is very great aud that death may be hastened by its use. ADENOMA. An adenoma is a tumor consisting of epithelial cells and a fibrous stroma simulating the structure of the gland in which it occurs, and it may be tubular or acinous. Some authorities call tumors of the lymphatic glands lymphadenomata, just as the term adenitis is applied to their inflammation, but this nomenclature should be altered, as the lymphatic glands are mere aggregations of lymphatic tissue and not true excreting or secreting glands, and we shall limit the term adenoma to epithelial tumors. In simple hyper-