TUMORS OF THE KIDNEY. 1120 radical cure. A slight infection of the bladder or of the prostate does not contra-indicate the operation, as it will often improve or disappear after- wards. Nephrectomy may be satisfactory even when a well-marked pyone- phrosis is present, if the other organs are not seriously affected. In cases in which there is extensive disease elsewhere, and especially in the other kidney, nephrectomy should not be done, and such cases are best treated on general principles, with due attention to the condition of the bladder. Nephrotomy results in permanent urinary and tuberculous sinuses, and is apt to hasten the end ; but when the ureters are occluded by any cause, or when the suppuration is so intense as to threaten septicaemia or pyaemia, the surgeon may be compelled to incise and drain the abscesses or the kidney itself. Iodoform treatment must then be instituted, with due care to avoid poisoning. Tumors.—The tumors of the kidney are solid or cystic, the cystic forms being the congenital cystic kidney and hydronephrosis. Hydatid cysts are so rare as to need only mention here. Minute cysts develop in the kidney in the course of chronic nephritis, but are of no surgical importance. Single serous cysts are occasionally seen in kidneys otherwise healthy, but rarely attain the size of an egg or an orange. Congenital Cysts.—Congenital cystic kidneys arise in the same way as cysts of the ovary and congenital cysts of the liver (with which they are sometimes associated), and, although of congenital origin, they grow slowly and are seldom noticed until the patient has reached adult life. These cysts are generally multiple and of all sizes from a pin's head up to a man's fist, the entire organ often being converted into a multilocular cystic mass, and yet, in spite of this change, the unaltered parts of kidney-substance continue to secrete urine until they become atrophied from the pressure of the grow- ing cysts. In the great majority of cases both kidneys are affected. The condition gives few symptoms, and is often accidentally discovered at autop- sies, having been unnoticed during life. In other cases the tumors are very large and cause symptoms by their pressure, and we have been compelled to operate on one such tumor which extended from the diaphragm to the crest of the ilium and caused vomiting and various nervous disturbances by its great size. As the condition is bilateral, removal of the kidney is not to be thought of, and drainage should be established by a nephrotomy, one cyst being broken into after another, converting them as far as possible into one cavity which can be drained through the wound. A permanent urinary fistula results, and therefore it is best to leave these kidneys untouched unless compelled to interfere by serious symptoms. Hydronephrosis.—Hydronephrosis is a dilatation of the kidney by accumulation of urine in its pelvis owing to obstruction of the ureter. The ureter may be deficient congenitally, or obstructed by cicatrices, by a stone, by the pressure of a tumor in the pelvis, or simply by being bent upon itself as may occur in a case of floating or movable kidney. By far the most common cause is movable kidney, and hence the affection is four times as common in women as in men. Its symptoms are frequently first noticed during pregnancy. Moderate dilatation of the kidneys may be pro- duced by any obstruction to the outflow of urine in the bladder or urethra,