1200 DIAGNOSIS OF MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE UTERUS. variably due to malignant disease. When ulceration has once set in, the discharge becomes exceedingly offensive, with a peculiar acrid odor. In the later stages the sufferings of the patient are intense, and may be uncon- trollable by large doses of morphine ; but in the early stages pain is usually absent, for it is not caused by the disease in the uterus, but by the secondary pelvic deposits. The tumor often runs an extremely latent course, and the patient is unaware of its existence, and may even consider herself in perfect health, until some slight discharge attracts her attention and an examina- tion reveals advanced malignant disease. Diagnosis.—Cystic degeneration of Naboth's glands sometimes forms a hard nodular tumor in the vaginal portion, but the mucous mem- brane is smooth, the translucent cysts appear at various points, and ulcera- tion does not take place. Venereal warts may make a considerable tumor, but their base is not indurated, they are not brittle, and there is no true ulceration. Erosions often surround the os uteri, but they have a graduated margin, and usually a soft base, without true ulceration. Tu- berculous ulcers are rare ; they are not so indurated, and they often have undermined edges, and bases with yellow nodules. Chancroids should not occasion difficulty, but the primary lesion of syphilis may resemble malignant disease. Syphilis, however, will usually be found early in life, there will be lesions elsewhere, the induration is of a different character, and there will be a sloughing base instead of carcinomatous granulations. A carcinoma may distend the cervix so as to resemble an interstitial fibroma when no external ulceration has occurred. Carcinoma of the body may closely resemble endometritis, and even when the introduction of the sound or the finger detects flattened tumors or uneven places on the endometrium it is not certain that they may not be placental remains after abortion. On the other hand, the malignant changes in the endometrium may produce such slight alterations that they cannot be recognized by the finger. As a rule, the diagnosis of internal carcinoma of the uterus, except in the late stages, requires the microscopic examination of fragments obtained by a thorough curetting of the entire organ. In doubtful tumors or ulcers of the vaginal portion a piece of considerable size should be cut out of the sus- pected tissues and submitted to microscopic study. Treatment.—Contra-indications to Radical Operation.—The best treatment for cancer is extirpation of the uterus, although high amputation of the cervix is perhaps sufficient when the disease is limited to that portion of the organ and is not extensive. A radical cure can be hoped for only when the disease is entirely limited to the uterus, as proved by the absence of indurated glands or cellular tissue in the pelvis, and by the fact that the uterus is freely movable, for the first symptom of extension of the disease is apt to be fixation of the organ. Immobility of the uterus caused by adhe- sions left from a former pelvic peritonitis should not be confounded with the fixation of malignant infiltration. By introducing two fingers into the rectum and the thumb into the vagina under anaesthesia (Winter), the very first signs of infiltration of the parametrium may be found as indurations close to the cervix. Inflammatory masses are usually larger than these indu- rations, and tumors formed by inflamed tubes and ovaries lie much higher