DIAGNOSIS OF FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 699 plastic operation like that suggested by Konig, who cuts a flap from the pericranium at the side of the opening, shaving off a thin layer of bone with it, turns it over into the defect with the bony side uppermost, and covers this with a flap of skin. Any deformity which exists, particularly any depression of the inner table of the skull, is likely to be permanent. Sometimes spicuke of bone are found attached at one end near an old fracture from which they origi- nated and projecting far into the substance of the brain at their free ex- tremity, with no sign of absorption or spontaneous removal. For these reasons it is important that all fractures with depression should be ele- vated when first seen, because of the dangerous results which are liable to develop later in life, such as brain abscess or epilepsy, due to displaced fragments, to adhesions of the brain to the dura, or to other causes of irritation. Symptoms.—The local signs of fracture of the skull are not so marked as in fractures of other bones, and the deformity is usually slight unless large areas of the skull are affected or there is marked depression. Mobility is a much more constant sign, for small fragments can often be made to move when the bone is comminuted. Crepitus is seldom found. Local pain and tenderness are in some cases quite definite, and Phelps lays great stress on this symptom. In the early stages a hematoma forms, and cedenia may persist during the stage of repair. A simple fissure in the skull without depression cannot be discovered through the scalp, but compound fractures are generally easily recognized. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of fractures of the vertex is in some cases very easy, in others difficult, or even impossible. A subcutaneous vein or a suture may feel like a fissure without depression. A narrow fissure in the bone may be difficult to discover, even when the surface of the bone is exposed for inspection. It can sometimes be recognized by the fact that the coagulated blood, which can be wiped from small grooves on the skull or from the sutures, remains fixed in the crack. The edges of a fissure are even and not toothed like the sutures. Fractures with depression are usu- ally easy to discover, but a hrematoina of the scalp, or blood effused under the pericranium like the caput succedaneum of the new-born child, often resembles a depressed fracture, for the centre of the tumor is soft and fluid while on the edge the clot may be hard, or new bone may be formed in a circular ridge. The distinction can be made by pressing in the centre with the finger, which will be able to feel bone at the bottom of the hollow in the clot, but not in the depression of a fracture. A careful examination of the edges will also assist, for in cases of depressed fracture the surface of the skull can generally be followed up to the edge of the depression without any change in level, whereas in the case of a hsematoma the finger as it passes over the surface of the skull is raised at the edge of the tumor before it sinks into the hollow in the centre. A fresh blood-clot can often be dissi- pated by massage, so that the true relations are evident. Cephalhematoma.—Some cases of fracture present pulsating tumors which can be felt at the site of the fracture, consisting of blood or cerebro- spinal fluid, with an opening sufficiently large to transmit to them the pulsa-