1146 SARCOMA AND CARCINOMA OF THE TESTICLE. should be tried. Dermoid cysts of the testicle have been reported, but are rare. Malignant tumors of the testicle may be either sarcoma or carcinoma. Sarcoma of the testicle appears at any age, although it is most frequent in early adult life. It begins in the body of the organ, and all histological varieties of the tumor are found. It presents a rapidly growing tumor, which retains the shape of the testicle, but is apt to be of varying consistency in different parts, being partly hard and partly soft, with a tendency to the production of cysts or cartilaginous plates. The scrotum is evenly distended over the mass, and not adherent even when it attains a large size. The cord is evenly thickened and its vessels swollen, and the inguinal glands are enlarged more frequently than is usual in sarcoma elsewhere. The softer tumors may grow quite rapidly, and both testicles may be involved. They are apt to break down, and, if the skin of the scrotum sloughs, the tumor projects through the opening. The firmer tumors progress much more slowly. The patient at first complains only of the weight and size of the tumor, but in the later stages pain sets in, and there may be symptoms from metastatic deposits in other parts of the body. The only treatment is removal by castration. Carcinoma of the testicle usually originates from the body of the organ, and is almost invariably composed of spheroidal cells. It occurs compara- tively early in life, before the forty-fifth year, and even in childhood. It is a more slowly growing tumor than sarcoma, is much softer to the touch, and may feel as elastic as a hydrocele. The skin becomes adherent early, and ulceration sets in after a year's duration. The tumor at this time is usually as large as a man's fist, and the pelvic and inguinal glands become enlarged within the first year. The patient complains of pain more than in sarcoma, and pain is also felt in the lumbar region, with a dull aching in the groin. With the infection of the glands severe neuralgic pains in the lower ex- tremities set in, and the venous circulation may be obstructed. The treat- ment is early and thorough operation, removing not only the testicle but as much of the cord as possible, for it is usually involved in the process. Diagnosis of Tumors.—The diagnosis of tumors of the testicle is made by their weight when lifted in the hand, which is much greater than hernia or hydrocele, by their lack of translucency, by their lack of impulse on coughing, and by the account of the patient that the tumor first appeared in the lower part of the scrotum, or even that it originated in the testicle. Tumors of the scrotum are differentiated by ascertaining that the testicle is not involved, and the diagnosis of hernia and hydrocele is given in the chapters on those conditions. Castration.—The operation for the removal of the testicle is a simple one, the skin being incised longitudinally over the gland and the latter shelled out of the tissues of the scrotum, removing the tunica vaginalis, in cases of tumor, as it is advisable to make as wide an excision of the neoplasm as possible. The testicle and tunica being shelled out of their bed, the cord is followed up well to the external inguinal ring, and if it be involved even at that point the inguinal canal should be opened and the cord drawn down, if possible, until a healthy part is reached. A ligature is made to transfix »