173 SPIRAL REVERSED BANDAGE. of the extremities in adults; a bandage of this size is the one usually employed in general surgical work. Bandage three inches wide, nine yards in length, for baudages of the thigh, groin, and trunk. Bandage four inches wide, ten yards in length, for bandages of the trunk. Rules for Bandaging.—In applying a roller bandage the operator should place the external surface of the free extremity of the roller upon the part and hold it in position with the fingers of the left hand until the end is fixed by a few turns of the roller; the roller should be held in the right hand by the thumb and fingers, and as the bandage is unwound it rolls into the operator's hands; the turns should be applied smoothly to the surface, the pressure exerted by each turn being uniform. In applying a bandage over the region of a joint the surgeon should see that the part is in the position it is to occupy as regards flexion and extension when the dressing is completed, for a bandage applied when the limb is flexed will exert too much pressure when the limb is extended ; if applied when the limb is extended it will be found uncomfortable upon flexion, and may even exert dangerous compression of the part. Those who have had little experience with the application of the roller bandage are apt to apply their bandages too tightly, which may lead to dangerous consequences, especially in the dressing of fractures. When the bandage has been applied to a part, the extremity should be secured by a pin or safety-pin. The bandage may be removed by cutting its folds with scissors made for this purpose, or, if it is desired to preserve the bandage, it may be removed by unpinning the terminal extremity and gathering the folds carefully into a loose mass as the bandage is unwound, the mass being transferred rapidly from one hand to the other, thus facilitating its removal and preventing the part from be- coming entangled in its loops. SPECIAL BANDAGES. Spiral Reversed Bandage.—This bandage is a spiral bandage, but differs from the ordinary spiral bandage in that its turns are folded back or reversed as it ascends a part the diameter of which gradually in- creases. It is possible by the use of this bandage to cover by spiral reversed turns a part conical in shape, and so make equable pressure upon all parts of the surface. It requires skill and practice to apply this bandage neatly ; a well-applied spiral reversed bandage is a test of a competent bandager. Reverses are made as follows : the initial extremity of the roller is fixed, and as the part increases in diameter the bandage is carried off a little obliquely to the axis of the limb for from four to six inches ; the index finger or thumb of the disengaged hand is placed upon the body of the bandage to keep it securely in place upon the limb, while the hand holding the roller is carried a little towards the limb, to slacken the unwound portion of the bandage, and by changing the position of the hand holding the bandage from extreme supination to pronation the reverse is made. (Fig. 97.) The reverse should not be made while the bandage is tense, for by so doing the bandage is twisted into a cord, which is unsightly and uncomfortable