TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE HIP. 616 gluteo-fenioral crease is obliterated. (Fig. 542.) The affected limb appears lengthened, bnt this is only an apparent lengthening, due to tilting of the pelvis from the efforts of the patient to throw the weight of the body in walking and standing upon the sound limb, and to preserve parallelism of the limbs. The accompany- ing diagram will illustrate these conditions. (Fig. 543.) Actual lengthening may occur in this stage of the disease from distention of the capsule with effusion. Pain is usually present, and may be re- ferred to the hip or to the knee in the distribution Fig. 543. Deformity in the second stage of hip-disease. Apparent elongation of left limb, due to abduction of the sound limb and tilting of the pelvis on the sound side, to allow the abducted limb to be brought into a line with the body. (Bryant.) Abducted position of the diseased left limb when the pelvis is at right angles to the spine. (Bryant.) of the obturator nerve. Motions of the joint are much restricted, full extension and complete adduction are not possible, and the deformity cannot be corrected even by the application of considerable force. During this stage the effusion may be absorbed, or may escape from the joint into the surrounding tissues, or abscess may occur. Third Stage.—This is the stage of shortening and deformity. There are marked adduction of the limb and flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis, with prominence of the buttock upon the affected side. (Fig. 544.) The short- ening results from adduction and from the change in the relation of the neck of the femur to the shaft, the obtuse angle becoming very nearly a right angle. The latter deformity occurs from muscular spasm and from bearing the weight upon the inflamed and softened bone. The deformed head and neck of the femur are also pushed upward and outward, so that the upper part of the trochanter may occupy a position above Nelaton's line. The flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis and the fixation of the joint are generally very marked. There is usually wasting of the muscles of the gluteal region and thigh. In this stage of the. affection abscesses are very common, which open upon the skin in the region of the joint. Separation of the head of the bone from the neck may occur at the epiphyseal line, or there may be absorp- tion of the head and neck of the bone. The acetabulum may be perforated