TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 1044 eralized, and are associated with visceral disease, especially of the liver and lungs, the kidney, spleen, nervous system, and testicle being sometimes dis- eased. The eruptions comprise roseola, papules, pustules, tubercles, and bullae (pemphigus). Syphilitic pemphigus, rare in the acquired form, may be present at birth or appear soon after. Authorities agree that it indicates a very malignant form of the disease. It consists of bullae which become pustular and ulcerate, the usual location being on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet. Mucous patches are also present. With the earliest erup- tions there is an inflammation confined at first to the nasal mucous mem- brane, producing the characteristic snuffles, which later, by ulceration and destruction of bone and cartilage, produces the sunken nose of hereditary syphilis. (Fig. 824.) Ulcerations are present around the mouth and the anus, which leave linear scars, rhagades, on healing. The bone-lesions consist of epiphyseal and other changes. At the ei>iphyses there is an osteochondritis re- sulting in premature attempts at ossifi- cation and sometimes separation of the epiphysis, abscess, and caries. Perios- titis of the long and flat bones results in the formation of osteophytes, which on the skull are grouped around the ante- rior fontanelle as four* nodes separated by i-a, ics ofTereditary syphilis. fche sutures, the "natiform" appearance of Parrot. Dactylitis is quite common. The prognosis is bad, death supervening in seventy per cent, of these cases. The later the disease appears the better is the prognosis. If the child sur- vives, the late lesions become milder in nature. Interstitial keratitis is a not uncommon and a very typical symptom. Iritis, choroiditis, and retinitis may also be present. A peculiar condition of the incisor teeth, first described by Jonathan Hutchinson, is of diagnostic value in connection with other signs of inherited syphilis. (Fig. 825.) Dr. Harrison Allen has called attention to the fact that a similar deformity of the teeth may result from other diseases affecting children during the period of their develop- ment, and all observers are aware of the fact that many cases presenting other marked symptoms of inherited syphilis often have well-developed teeth. The central upper incisors of the permanent set are those involved, the deformity consisting in a pegging due to a narrowing of the cutting edge, associated with a central notch on the free border. There is often deafness, due to otorrhoea. The nervous system is sometimes involved. The subject of hereditary syphilis very rarely contracts the disease in later life, and there are few, if any, authentic cases of transmission to the third generation. By Profeta's immunity is meant the immunity shown by children of syphilitic parents to syphilis, even if they themselves seem healthy. Treatment.—The treatment of syphilis should be both hygienic and medicinal. Every means must be taken to keep the patient in good physi-