ULCERS OF THE CORNEA. 813 DISEASES OF THE CORNEA. Inflammatory affections of the cornea are generally described under the name keratitis, and consist of infiltration of the layers of the cornea without the formation of pus or ulcers (non-uleerative keratitis), or infiltration and loss of substance with the development of an ulcer (ulcerative keratitis), or infiltration of purulent material within the layers of the cornea (corneal abscess, purulent keratitis). Phlyctenular Keratoconjunctivitis (strumous ophthalmia of the older writers).—In this disease single or multiple vesicles form on the con- junctiva, and particularly at the corneo-scleral margin. These vesicles are the so-called phlyctenules, and consist of an elevation of the corneal epithe- lium by a round-celled exudate. The symptoms are local congestion, great lachrymation, and photophobia, the latter often being so marked a symptom that the lids are spasmodically closed and the head is buried in the bedclothes. After a time the phlycte- nule breaks down, and an open lesion, or phlyctenular ulcer, results, which remains at the margin of the cornea, or creeps across its surface, followed by a leash of blood-vessels. Occasionally phlyctenules form a circle around the margin of the cornea (marginal keratitis), or a single pustule of yellow- ish color develops at the corneo-scleral junction, having a strong tendency to perforate this membrane. The disease is common in childhood, especially in strumous subjects. It often follows the exanthemata, and is always associated with, and probably in many instances caused by, various pathological conditions of the rhino- pharynx, particularly adenoid vegetations. Eczema of the nares, of the auricle, and of the face often accompanies this disease, which has a strong tendency to relapse, and may become one of the most troublesome of ocular affections. Treatment.—This must be constitutional and local. Atropine drops should be used as long as there is irritation, and the conjunctival cul-de-sac should be frequently irrigated with a tepid boric acid solution. Later, an ointment of yellow oxide of mercury, one grain to the drachm, may be rubbed into the conjunctival sac. If the ulcer assumes a severe type, the treatment for sloughing ulcers, presently to be described, is applicable. The naso- pharynx should be carefully treated according to the conditions which are found. The constitutional remedies are iron, arsenic, cod-liver oil, and the hypophosphites. Fresh air, a residence in the country, suitable diet, and all hygienic measures are important. Ulcers of the Cornea.—In addition to ulcers due to phlyctenular keratitis, a number of varieties occur which have received different names, according to their situation, character, and tendencies. The most impor- tant are: Simple ulcer, which is a small gray infiltration of the cornea, near its centre, and without much associated inflammation. Indolent ulcer, which usually is a shallow lesion, although sometimes it may be excavated or gouged out, having a slightly turbid base, and which is especially chronic in its course. It probably depends upon some failure