1016 TREATMENT OF FISTULA IN ANO. Fig. 813. Horseshoe fistula : a, fistulous tract; b, lines of incision exposing the sinuses and dividing the sphincter. point of the sinus ; a director should be introduced into the external open- ing and brought out at the internal opening, and the tissues divided upon the director; the subsequent treatment of the wound is similar to that in the case of complete fistula. In blind external fistula the sinus should be freely laid open and curetted, and after being irrigated should be loosely packed with strips of gauze. In this variety of fistula, if the end of the fistula is separated from the rectum by the mucous membrane only, and is low down in the rectum, it is advisable to make the fistula a complete one and divide the tis- sues and the sphincter. In patients who re- fuse operative treatment, or in cases of fistula in which the internal open- ing is very high up in the rectum, an elastic ligature may be intro- duced through the ex- ternal and the internal opening and brought out of the anus and firmly tied, and will in a few days cut its way out. The resulting wound should be dressed as in cases of division of the tissues with the knife. This method of treatment is painful, and possesses no advantage over the method of incision with the knife, except that it is accomplished without the loss of blood : it is to be employed only in the cases before mentioned. Incontinence following single division of the sphincter is rare, but oc- casionally occurs, and is very apt to follow multiple section of the sphincter. It is not likely to be a troublesome symptom unless the bowels are loose. If incontinence exists, the edges of the sphincter muscle should be exposed by incision and brought together by deep sutures, and the skin approximated by superficial sutures. This condition can also be remedied by the applica- tion of the cautery to the skin and mucous membrane over the sphincter, the Paquelin cautery being used and three or four radiating eschars being made, in the healing of which the skin and the mucous membrane become drawn to one side and puckered, so that involuntary escape of feces does not take place. HEMORRHOIDS, OR PILES. Hemorrhoids, or piles, which arise from dilatation and increase in the blood-vessels in the lower end of the rectum, are extremely common, and are met with in all conditions of life. Hemorrhoids are most frequently observed in middle life, and are rarely seen in children, being occasionally met with in this class of patients. We have operated upon a boy of five years for internal hemorrhoids. Various causes have been assigned to account for the frequency of hem- orrhoids in man, but the most satisfactory explanation of their etiology is