DERMOID TUMORS. 82 Race and Country.—Some races seem to be more predisposed to cer- tain tumors than others, keloid and uterine fibromyoma being very common in the negroes and fibrolipoma in certain East Indian races. Attempts have been made to prove that cancer is indigenous to certain districts in various countries, but without much success, although it cannot be denied that the inhabitants of a few valleys in France and certain districts in England and Germany appear to be peculiarly liable to the disease. Contagion of Cancer.—There is a theory that malignant tumors are contagious, and a few isolated facts of this kind are on record, but they are to be taken with a certain amount of reserve. The coincidence of epitheli- oma of the penis and of the uterus in man and wife in rare cases has been quoted in proof of this theory, but the very great frequency of epithelioma of the uterus and the rarity of the same disease in the penis argues against their origin by direct infection. There are many cases on record in which a cancerous ulcer has apparently infected the part in contact with it, for example, from the lower to the upper lip, from the gum to the cheek, from the breast to the skin of the chest; but in such instances we are dealing with an inoculation of an individual already the subject of the disease. This theory of infection and the fact that in certain districts carcinoma appears to be more frequent than in others are the two corner-stones of the founda- tion of the theory of the parasitic origin of cancer, for the disease would probably be contagious if it were parasitic. But the parasitic theory is far from demonstration. DERMOID, BRANCHIAL, AND THYROGLOSSAL TUMORS. DERMOID TUMORS. Origin.—The dermoid tumors afford a good illustration in gross of Cohn- heim's theory. During the development of the foetus various parts are formed by projections or folds growing inward from the external epithelial covering, and normally the pedicles of these infoldings should disappear by atrophy of the epithelial cells, leaving the mass of buried epithelial cells en- tirely separated from the superficial layer, ready to form the special organ. The groove or dimple on the surface where the infolding began then fills up level with the surrounding parts. Occasionally this atrophy is incomplete, and groups of epithelial cells may persist in the connective tissue in the track of the pedicle between the organ and the epithelial layer. If any in- jury or irritation causes the cells so included to grow, the connective tissue about them forms a capsule, and solid or cystic tumors result. In the cysts the cells die in the centre and produce a cheesy mass, for only those on the periphery next the capsule can obtain sufficient nourishment to live. Situation.—These cysts may be found wherever natural clefts occur in the foetus, but they are most common about the face, especially at the exter- nal angle of the orbit. (Fig. 41.) They are rarely found in the median line, but are occasionally seen about the anterior fontanelle or along the lainb- doid suture. In the latter situation they represent the infolding of the sur- face of the ovum and foetus to make the deep fissures dividing the brain into the different lobes, and hence dermoid cysts are also found in the brain.