TREATMENT OF BOW-LEGS. 667 bending of the softened bones outward. Like knock-knee, it may appear before the child begins to walk, and is then due to tonic muscular action. Symptoms.—There is the characteristic deformity, which is associated with a waddling gait, resembling that observed in double congenital disloca- tion of the hips, although not so well marked. Fig. 603. The feet are inverted in walking. Treatment.—Expectant treatment is more promising in bow-legs than in knock-knee, as there is a greater tendency to obliteration of the deformity as growth proceeds. Fig. 604. This fortunate result is more likely to take place when the curve is a gradual one, involv- ing both femur and tibia. When the tibia is mainly involved, and presents, as is often the case, at its lower end an outward pro- jection, the expectant treatment will be less apt to be followed by disappearance of the de- formity. Here also the stage at which the child is first seen has a bearing on the prognosis ; as soon as the bones become hard, there is less chance of spontaneous improvement. The hygienic measures described for cases of knock-knee must be carefully carried out. Manipu- lation involves bending in the inward direction towards a straight line. Mechanical treatment is promising up to the end of the third year. Various appliances are used, aiming at making pressure on the outer side of the knee, or wherever the greatest convexity is situated, with pads for counter-pressure at the inner side of the thigh and ankle. (Fig. 604.) Inversion of the toes must be prevented. Operative treatment includes both osteoclasis and osteotomy. Osteo- clasis gives good results where the deformity is due to curvatures of the shafts of the femur and tibia. Rizzoli's or Grattan's instrument may be used, and after correction plaster of Paris is applied. Linear osteotomy is, however, a preferable operation, as by its employ- ment the correction can be accomplished with greater precision and with less risk of injury to the neighboring articulations. The legs should be thoroughly sterilized, and, if the operator desires, they may be rendered bloodless by an Esmarch bandage; but here, as in the case of osteotomy for knock-knee, we prefer to omit this detail. The limb being supported upon a small sand-bag, a small incision is first made over the fibula at the point of greatest curvature, and the point of the knife is carried down to the bone; a narrow osteotome is slipped down upon this as a guide Genu extrorsum, or bow-legs. Brace for bow-leg.