826 CONGENITAL CATARACT. The symptoms of incipient cataract are depreciation of vision in pro- portion to the extent of the opacities, change in the refraction of the eye, which often becomes temporarily myopic from swelling of the lens (the so-called "second sight''); and sometimes monocular diplopia. With the ophthalmoscope the streaks and spots may be seen in the lens. Mature cataract can usually be detected without special examination, or, at most, with oblique illumination. A cataract is ripe when the opaque lens covered with its capsule is level with the margin of the iris, and when the iris casts no shadow during illu- mination of the pupillary space. The color of senile cataract varies ; it may be amber, white, or black. If it is over-ripe the cortex liquefies (Morgagnian cataract). Treatment.—Incipient cataract requires no special treatment, except that the patient should be given such glasses as may improve his vision. Electricity and massage of the eyeball are of no avail. Juvenile or Congenital Cataract.—Complete juvenile or congenital cataract is usually white or bluish-white in color, and is soft—i.e., the nucleus is small. The eye may be otherwise healthy, or there may be as- sociated change in the choroid, the retina, and the optic nerve. Complete white cataract also forms in young persons without known cause. Of the partial congenital cataracts, the two most important are the zonu- lar or lamellar cataracts and the pyramidal cataracts. The latter are small opacities situated either in the anterior (anterior capsular or polar) or the posterior (posterior polar) portion of the lens or its capsule. Complicated or secondary cataracts may form on account of various diseases of the eye, complete lenticular opacity being common after severe irido cyclitis, choroiditis, glaucoma, etc. Partial secondary cataract at the anterior pole of the lens may follow a perforating ulcer of the cornea, or may develop at the posterior pole in connection with high myopia, choroiditis, and vitreous disease. Complete cataract may be caused by diabetes, and is often associated with albuminuria. Traumatic cataract has been described on page 798. After-cataract, usually called secondary cataract, is the name applied to the thickening and opacity of the capsule of the lens which frequently occurs after the extraction of cataract. Operations for Senile Cataract.—Hard cataracts, or those which occur after the fortieth year, may be removed by one of several methods. Two will be described : (a) combined extraction, or extraction with iridec- tomy, and (6) simple extraction, or extraction without iridectomy. (a) Combined Extraction by the Short or Three-Millimetre Flap Operation.—The following instruments are required: a stop speculum, a lid elevator, fixation forceps, spatula, wire loop, small spoon, cystotome, capsule forceps, iris forceps, iris scissors, and the cataract-knife. The eye and patient having been properly prepared (see page 820), and the specu- lum being inserted, the surgeon seizes a fold of conjunctiva with the fixation forceps at the inferior border of the cornea and draws the eyeball gently downward. The knife is next entered exactly at the corneo-scleral junction, at the outer extremity of a horizontal line which would pass three milli-