691 SARCOMA OF THE SCALP. veins of the diploe or the sinuses within the skull sometimes develop as the result of injuries to the vessels by a contusion or fracture of the bone. These form soft, easily compressible tumors, which grow tense during expiratory efforts and occasionally pulsate with the brain when distended. They are rare tumors, but should be borne in mind in making a diagnosis. Lipoma is rare, but a soft lipoma may closely resemble a sebaceous cyst. Congenital lipomata are found under the temporal fascia or between the pericranium and the skull, and depressions in the bone may exist under them, as under dermoid cysts. Fibroma when it occurs is more commonly a growth from the skin itself, and is often pedunculated. The scalp is a common situation for the fibro-neuromata growing from the sheath of the nerves, the so-called elephantiasis of the nerves, and they sometimes form extensive tumors like large folds of skin hanging down from the head and full of cord-like or vermiform masses. Sarcoma forms a limited tumor, which may be hard in some parts and soft in others, and is apt to involve the skin early. Sarcomata frequently originate from some small granulating wound, and we have seen one grow- ing from an ulcerating wen which resembled a large papilloma. Tumors formed of pure granulation-tissue are not infrequent, and the diagnosis of these tumors from sarcoma is not easy. We have sometimes found it possi- ble to make the distinction by observing the method in which the granula- tion-tissue develops through the hair. Sarcoma grows beneath the skin and destroys the hair when the skin ulcerates, but exuberant granulations pro- ject over the sound skin among the hairs, surrounding the latter in such a way that they stand straight up through the mass of the tumor. Sarcomata of the scalp grow rapidly, ulcerate early, extend to the bone, and result in death either by hemorrhage or by early invasion of the cranial contents. Fig. 634. Epithelioma of the scalp of twenty years' duration. Epithelioma of the scalp is quite common. In some cases it runs a slow and chronic course, like epithelioma of the skin in other situations, and we have observed one tumor which had grown for twenty years and involved the entire vertex of the skull and penetrated the bones for a con- siderable area. (Fig. 634.) This patient had no idea of the extent of the