431 TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. ination of fractures, as by its employment the patient is saved much pain, the muscular resistance is done away with, and the surgeon can accurately locate the seat and direction of the fracture and coaptate the fragments. We think it a wise rule to administer an anaesthetic for the examination of any case of obscure fracture or one near or involving a joint. The only pos- sible disadvantage in its use arises from the struggles of the patient, which may cause movement of the fragments with injury to the surrounding parts ; this can be guarded against by having the part firmly held or fixed by splints while the anaesthetic is being given. The fact that the examination is made without pain to the patient should not lead the surgeon to make forcible movements to elicit mobility or crepitus, for there is the same risk of damage to the soft parts as without anaesthesia, so that all manipulations should be made with extreme gentleness. Every surgeon has met with cases in which after the most careful exam- ination he was unable to determine the existence of fracture, although he was morally certain that such an injury existed ; the safe rule of practice is to consider the case one of fracture and treat it accordingly. TREATMENT OF FRACTURES. Various methods of treatment of these injuries have at different times been advocated and practised, but the one which has been most widely employed is that which consists in approximation of the fractured ends of the bone by extension and manipulation and their retention in position by splints or mechanical appliances and by position. Prolonged fixation has long been considered the most important measure in the treatment of these injuries. Eecently the method of massage introduced by Lucas-Cham- pionniere and the ambulatory method applied to the treatment of fractures of the lower extremity have attracted some attention. Massage in the Treatment of Fractures.— Lucas-Championniere advocates and practises immediate and continuous massage in the treatment of fractures, and holds that by its use pain is diminished, the repair of bone hastened by the profuse deposit of callus, and the atrophy of muscles and stiffening of joints avoided. Massage is applied as soon as possible after the fracture has occurred, and consists in manipulations with the thumb, the fingers, or the whole hand. The limb is held by an assistant and extension is made, or it is placed upon a firm pillow or a sand cushion. The manipulations should be made in the direction of the muscular fibres and of the blood-current, and firm pressure should not be made directly over the seat of fracture. Massage should be practised for from fifteen to twenty minutes daily, and no retention apparatus should be applied in the intervals unless there is marked tendency to displacement of the fragments, when some form of re- tention apparatus or splint may be used. These manipulations should be continued for some weeks, until union is firm at the seat of fracture. Mas- sage has also been combined with the ambulatory method of treatment of fractures of the lower extremity. This method of treating fractures by mas- sage may be said to be still on trial, sufficient experience not yet having accumulated to prove that it possesses marked advantages over the gener-