643 EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. Fig. 569. Incisions for excision of the scapula. (After Stimson.) Excision of the Scapula.—Excision of the scapula, either partial or complete, may be required for necrosis following injury, or for benign or malignant growths of the bone; in cases of malignant disease of the scap- ula a complete excision, as a rule, is the safer procedure, as partial ex- cisions are very liable to be followed by a rapid recurrence of the disease. Complete excision of the scapula is both a difficult and a dangerous opera- tion, the danger consisting largely in the amount of hemorrhage which occurs during its perform- ance. When, however, the operation is done for necrosis, it is a comparatively simple one, and is not attended with great risk. Operation.—In excising the scapula an in- cision should be made along the whole length of its spine; from the posterior extremity of this line two other incisions are made, one running about an inch or two above, and the other pass- ing down the posterior border of the bone to its inferior angle (Fig. 569) ; the flaps thus made are loosened by separating the muscles attached to the outer surface of the bone. The attachments of the deltoid and trapezius to the acromion and spine of the scapula are separated, and the lower angle is freed by detaching the teres major and serratus magnus muscles. The bone is then raised, and the subscapularis muscle is detached from below upward. The neck of the scapula should next be divided with a chain saw or cutting forceps ; the acromion is separated from the clavicle and scapula and turned upward, the joint being opened from below. The coracoid process should be sepa- rated from its muscular and ligamentous attachments, or may be divided with a saw and left in place. In clearing the supraspinous fossa care should be taken not to injure the suprascapular nerve in the suprascapular notch ; to prevent injuring this nerve, it should be raised with a periosteotome in its fibrous sheath. As the great risk of this operation consists in the amount of blood that is lost during its performance, care should be taken that bleed- ing vessels are promptly secured with haemostatic forceps as the operation proceeds, and when it is completed the vessels should be secured by liga- tures. After excision of the scapula, one or more drainage-tubes should be introduced, the wound closed with sutures, a copious gauze dressing applied, and the arm securely fastened to the side with a Velpeau bandage. Excision of the Hip-Joint.—Excision of the head of the femur may be required for gunshot injury or for compound comminuted fractures in- volving the head of the bone ; the operation is, however, most frequently employed in cases of tuberculous arthritis of the hip-joint. Operation.—In excising the hip-joint, an incision is made from a point about three inches below the crest of the ilium and about the same distance behind the anterior superior spine of the ilium, extending downward to the great trochanter, where it is carried forward in the line of the femur for three or four inches (Fig. 570) ; the soft parts are next dissected from the great trochanter and the upper part of the shaft of the femur, and the cap-