INJURIES OF THE ORBIT. 802 known to be of iron or of steel, an attempt should be made to dislodge it with the electro-magnet. This is introduced either through the wound of entrance or through one made for the purpose. If the surgeon has been unsuccessful in his attempts to remove the foreign body, if he is uncertain that he has a sterile wound, and if vision is much depreciated or is lost, the eye should be enucleated or eviscerated, because sympathetic inflammation is almost sure to follow. In a few instances foreign bodies have been toler ated in the background of the eye for long periods of time, but, as Knapp states, we are never sure that they may not be the origin of serious mischief. Injuries of the Eyelids.—Incised, lacerated, and contused wounds of the eyelids do not differ in their treatment from wounds situated in any other portion of the body. Wounds inflicted in the line of the direction of the fibres of the orbicularis result in the least visible scar, owing to the ab- sence of gaping. There is no difficulty in securing accurate approximation of the wound, preferably with fine silk sutures. Three results are common sequels of blows on the eye—namely, oedema, emphysema, and ecchymosis of the lids. CEdenia requires practically no treatment, but, if desired, an evaporating lotion—for example, dilute lead water and laudanum—may be applied. Emphysema may follow a fracture of the orbit, which permits the air to escape into the cellular tissue through a communication with the ethmoidal or the frontal sinus. Ecchymosis, or a collection of blood in the connective tissue, is the '' black eye'' of common parlance. It is also seen as the result of fracture of the base of the skull, and is, in fact, a symptom of some importance in relation to head-injuries. It may be associated with emphysema if a frac- ture has involved the frontal or the ethmoidal cells. Ecchymosis should be treated with applications of hamamelis, arnica, or lead water and laudanum, but not by applying leeches to the swollen lids. Burns of the eyelids should be managed on exactly the same principles as those which are applicable to burns situated elsewhere in the body. They are important chiefly on account of the usual involvement of the cornea and conjunctiva. Injuries of the Orbit.—These include fracture of its bony walls, pen- etrating wounds, the lodgement of foreign bodies, and contusions. Injury may lead to phlegmonous inflammation (orbital abscess), hemorrhage, rup- ture of the eyeball, or lesion of the optic nerve. The usual symptoms of orbital disease, associated with accumulations of pus, blood, or exudate, are exophthalmos, displacement of the eyeball, diplopia, and disturbance of vision, which may finally be completely lost from atrophy of the optic nerve. After a penetrating wound of the orbital tissues careful search should be made for the presence of a foreign body. If there has been much hemor- rhage and proptosis from effusion into Tenon's capsule, it may be necessary to make incisions to evacuate the blood, lest the pressure upon the optic nerve cause blindness. Abscess of the orbit is treated on the general principles applicable to abscess elsewhere. It is desirable that evacuation of the pus shall be