GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 225 Bites of Animals.—Bites of animals, unless they at the time are suf- fering from rabies, usually inflict only lacerated wounds. Bites of animals suffering from rabies introduce a specific poison into the system (see page 6.7). They, however, inflict lacerated wounds which may become infected by micro-organisms upon the teeth or in the saliva and give rise to serious symptoms. We have seen very serious wounds inflicted by rat-bites, the wounds becoming inflamed, oedematous, and gangrenous, and being ac- companied by more or less constitutional disturbance. Bites of horses may cause serious wounds, on account of the crushing of the tissues, followed by extensive sloughing of the soft parts and necrosis of the bones. Bites of human beings often result in wounds which run the same course. We have seen several cases of necrosis of the metacarpal bones from injuries received upon the knuckles from human teeth. Treatment.—As the complications following bites of animals are prob- ably due to microbic infection, it is most important in the treatment of the wounds that they should be first completely cleansed by washing with an antiseptic solution, and then dressed with an antiseptic or aseptic dressing. GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Gunshot wounds may be described as those which result from missiles whose force is derived from the explosion of gunpowder. In military prac- tice such wounds are produced by rifle-balls of various kinds, solid shot, canister, shot and shells, and by splinters of wood or metal or rock set in motion by some of this variety of projectiles. The gunshot wounds which the surgeon meets with in civil practice usually result from small shot or pistol-balls, although he occasionally sees wounds produced by fragments of metal and splinters of wood from the bursting of small-arms, or from fragments of rock in blasting accidents, which correspond very closely to shell wounds in military practice. Very serious or fatal gunshot injury may be inflicted by the discharge of powder or the wadding of a gun fired at close range, producing lacerated and contused wounds in conjunction with burns. General Characteristics of Gunshot Wounds.—Gunshot wounds are contused and lacerated wounds, and present much variation in character, according to the nature of the projectile with which they are inflicted and its momentum. The injury of the tissues with which the projectile comes in contact often diminishes their vitality to such an extent that more or less sloughing occurs ; their repair is also further interfered with in many cases by foreign bodies which are carried into the wound, such as portions of the clothing, gun-wadding, splinters of wood, etc. The majority of gunshot wounds have two apertures,—one made by the entrance of the ball, the other by its exit; the wound of entrance is, with some exceptions, smaller than the wound of exit; the size of the latter is increased by the tissues driven out with the ball, by the distention of the tissues, and probably also by the diminished velocity of the ball. When one wound only exists it may usually be inferred that the ball remains in the body. The wound of exit does not always occupy a position in the 15