LIGATION OF THE INNOMINATE ARTERY. 377 incision into the sheath should be only of sufficient size to allow the aneu- risinal needle to pass through it around the vessel; as the walls of the vessels receive their nutrition from the vessels of the sheath, extensive sepa- ration or dissection of the sheath should always be avoided, since otherwise the nutrition of the arteries at the point of ligature may be impaired, and sloughing and secondary hemorrhage result. Only the main arterial trunks possess a distinct sheath, which is replaced in the smaller arteries by a layer of loose cellular tissue. The wall of the artery being Fig. 282. exposed by a small incision in the sheath, an aneurismal needle (Fig. 282) threaded with a ligature is passed around the vessel, and, the ligature being grasped with forceps, the needle is with- Aneurismal needle, drawn ; or the needle may be passed around the vessel, and after being threaded with a ligature with- drawn, bringing the ligature after it. In passing the needle care should always be taken to direct it away from important structures, such as veins and nerves, which are in proximity to the artery, as the injury of a vein under such circumstances, or the inclusion of a nerve in the ligature, might give rise to most serious consequences. Before tying the ligature the sur- geon should satisfy himself that the ligature when tied will control the cir- culation in the vessel below its point of application. This may be done by placing the tip of the finger upon the vessel and drawing upon the ends of the ligature, so as to occlude it between the ligature and the finger. Having satisfied himself as to this point, the ligature should be securely tied with the reef-knot, or the surgeon's knot and reef-knot combined, and the ends cut short. Some surgeons in ligating arteries apply two ligatures and divide the vessel between the ligatures. The wound is irrigated and drained if necessary, or may be closed without drainage by the application of a few sutures, and a full antiseptic dressing applied. As it is a matter of the first importance that primary union be obtained in wounds made for the ligation of arteries in their continuity, since if infec- tion of the wound occurs sloughing of the vessel may occur and dangerous hemorrhage result, the surgeon should be most careful that every detail is observed which will make and preserve the wound aseptic. LIGATION OP SPECIAL ARTERIES. Ligation of the Innominate Artery.—The innominate artery is the largest branch given off from the arch of the aorta, and is about an inch and a half in length ; it lies immediately behind the sterno-clavicular articu- lation, where it divides into the right carotid and right subclavian arteries. By extending the neck the innominate artery can be drawn up and rendered more superficial. It is in relation in front with the innominate veins and the right pneumogastric nerve, on the inner side with the trachea, and on the outer side and behind with the pleura.