1129 CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS OF THE PENIS. abdomen at the external border of the rectus. The ureter can be incised, the calculus removed, and the wound in the canal closed with sutures. The posterior layer of the peritoneum should be united over the ureter, and if there is danger of leakage a drain should be introduced through a small wound in the lumbar region, so that the anterior abdominal wound can be closed. To expose the ureter lower down an oblique incision is made parallel to Poupart's ligament, but an inch above it, the peritoneum being separated from the pelvic wall as in the operation for ligature of the iliac artery, until the pelvic portion of the ureter is reached. The upper part of the ureter is adherent to the peritoneum, and follows that membrane when it is stripped up. The extreme lower end may be reached by the vagina in the female or by resection of the sacrum, as in Kraske's operation for exposing the rectum. THE MALE GENITALS. THE PENIS. Congenital Malformations.—The penis may be absent in very rare cases, and is occasionally found in a rudimentary condition buried under the integument of the pubes or of the scrotum. In extreme cases of this deformity castration may be advisable in order to free the individual from tormenting sexual desii'e and its resulting nervous disturbances. Milder forms of undeveloped penis sometimes correct themselves at pu- berty or even later in life, and only require some care as to sexual hygiene. Cases of double penis have been reported, but usually with a super- numerary limb between the two sets of genitals. The double penis may be merely a cleft penis, or may be double in the whole or in part of its length, the two parts being sometimes included in a common sheath of skin, some- times separate. The deformity is very rare. The penis may also be twisted upon itself, so that the urethra winds about the organ and opens upon its upper side. Among the commonest deformities of the penis is an unnatural narrowing of the meatus or of the opening in the foreskin. An imperforate meatus is occasionally seen, the opening being closed by a very thin mem- brane. The narrow and the imperforate meatus have been described in the chapter on the Urethra. Besides the urinary obstruction, a narrow meatus may occasion sexual hyperesthesia. Phimosis.—Phimosis is a term applied to a redundant foreskin with a contracted orifice. (Figs. 852 and 853.) The foreskin may be redundant and yet its orifice be sufficiently large, a condition which is not a true phimosis. At birth the opening in the foreskin is minute and the inner layer of the mem- brane is usually adherent to the outer surface of the glans. During child- hood the orifice enlarges and the adhesions slowly separate, and at puberty the former should be large enough to give free exit to the glans. In some cases the opening in the foreskin remains very small, so that even the urine escapes with difficulty, and instances have been known in which individ- uals have reached adult life in this condition, the foreskin ballooning out at each act of urination, and being evacuated by pressure with the hands. The retention of urine causes great inflammation of the parts, and calculi