961 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. and cause chronic obstruction. In some cases the strangulation is not severe enough to cause sloughing, but the adhesions prevent reduction, and the fecal movement is restored by a canal which opens through the centre of the intussusception by partial sloughing or ulceration, and the condition of chronic intussusception is produced, which may last for months or years, but is usually fatal in the end. Symptoms.—The symptoms of intestinal obstruction are, in the first place, vomiting, which may be very violent or may amount only to regurgi- tation, the latter being the rule in cases of chronic obstruction. It will be the first symptom when strangulation is present, and will begin late when there is a simple mechanical obstruction to the lumen of the bowel, espe- cially if the obstruction is low down. It is not usually accompanied by nausea. Pain is an unimportant sign, although colicky pain is generally present in acute strangulation. The pain may be situated anywhere in the abdomen, but occasionally there is localized tenderness at the point of ob- struction. Tympanites, by which we understand distention of the abdomen with tympanitic resonance, is the most constant of the local signs. The distention is due to paralysis of the bowel and the decomposition of the fluids contained in it. It has been shown that this paralysis first becomes evident and is most marked in the strangulated loop, so that by an early examination the exact situation of the obstruction can be determined, espe- cially in volvulus or in strangulation by bands. Bectal movements and even the passage of gas are suspended, but in intussusception there is a discharge of mucus and blood from the rectum, with tenesmus. The temperature in intestinal obstruction is low, and may be subnormal. Auscultation gives little clue to the seat of the obstruction, but in some cases the peristaltic wave can be heard moving towards the obstruction, becoming louder as it approaches that point and then ceasing. The peri- staltic movements may be seen through the abdominal wall, especially in cases of chronic obstruction with great hypertrophy and distention of the bowel. They can occasionally be stimulated by laying a cold hand upon the skin or slapping it with a wet towel. A tumor is present in some cases, generally being formed by a strangulated loop, a volvulus, or an intussus- ception. In acute intestinal obstruction with strangulation the patient is suddenly taken with pain in the abdomen and vomiting, and falls into a condition of collapse. The onset is abrupt, the pain severe, the constipation absolute. The vomiting becomes more and more violent, the contents of the stomach first being voided, then bile, and finally fecal matter from anti-peristalsis in the upper intestine. The pulse is imperceptible, there is cold perspiration, and the patient is very restless. The pain may be slight or very severe, and it is generally localized at the seat of the obstruction. There is no move- ment from the bowels, not even gas being passed. There may be retention of urine, but more frequently the .secretion is suppressed. In the subacute form the symptoms come on more slowly, but in a few hours reach the same inten- sity. In the chronic form, on the other hand, the passages may gradually diminish in size and frequency, or constipation may exist for some weeks or months beforehand, so that the bowel becomes accustomed to the obstruc- 61