449 FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE SCAPULA. Fracture of the Coracoid Process.—This fracture is extremely rare, and may be produced by direct violence or by violence transmitted through the displaced head of the humerus. (Fig. 351.) Symptoms.—The signs of this injury are pain, mobility, and crepitus. If the finger be pressed firmly upon the coracoid process and the humerus be moved upward and downward, if frac- ture is present the fragment will be found FlG- 352- Fracture of the coracoid process of the scapula. Fracture of the neck of the scapula. (Neill.) (Fergusson.) its connection with the coraco-braehialis and biceps muscles. Crepitus may be also felt during these manipulations. Union after fracture of the coracoid process is fibrous. Treatment.—This consists in applying a folded towel in the axilla and bringing the arm against the side of the body in the Velpeau position and securing it by turns of a Velpeau's bandage. This dressing should be retained for four or five weeks. Fracture of the Neck and Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula.— Fracture of the neck of the scapula is an extremely rare injury. The frac- ture may extend to the glenoid cavity, or may separate the glenoid cavity and the coracoid process from the body of the scapula, or may simply sepa- rate the glenoid cavity from the scapula. (Fig. 352.) Symptoms.—The most marked symptom in fracture of the neck of the scapula is the loss of the rotundity of the shoulder, with unusual prominence of the acromion process. This deformity results from the sinking down- ward of the head of the humerus and from the contraction of the coraco- brachial and the short head of the biceps muscle. Crepitus may be ob- tained by pushing the head of the humerus upward. Treatment.—In treating this fracture, a wedge-shaped pad five inches long and three inches wide should be placed in the axilla, and the arm should be fastened against the side of the body by the application of a Vel- peau's bandage. At the end of four weeks the dressing should be perma- nently removed, and passive movements made to restore the function of the shoulder-joint. 29