23 RESULTS OF INFLAMMATION. condition, added to the disturbances of certain organs, such as the nervous centres, which are poisoned by the toxic substances produced in the in- flamed parts, and the liver, kidney, and intestine, which endeavor to elimi- nate the poison from the system. The inflammatory products may poison the system in two ways: by the diffusion of their chemical substances, toxines and ptomaines, or by the passage of bacteria themselves into the circulation. Terminations.—Inflammation may result in resolution, suppuration, necrosis or sloughing, or in the establishment of a chronic state. Resolution is the termination of an inflammation by the gradual retro- gression of all the changes which have occurred. The pain subsides, the circulation becomes more normal, and finally the exudation is absorbed or makes its way to the free surfaces of the body, disappearing in the latter case as serous or purulent fluid. The fluid exudation re-enters the circula- tion by the lymph-vessels or blood-vessels, and the new wandering cells either die and become disintegrated or, possibly, enter the lymph-channels and the circulation intact. It is denied by the best observers that the wan- dering cells ever become changed into the fixed connective-tissue cells of the part. If there has been any loss of substance caused by the inflammation, it is restored by processes exactly similar to those of the repair of wounds. Suppuration.—When suppuration occurs, the cellular exudate or pus may make its way to a free surface, such as a mucous membrane, or may form an abscess or may cause sloughing of the skin over the seat of inflam- mation, and so escape from the cellular spaces in which it is infiltrated. Pus may be thrown off by a mucous membrane without any actual breach of continuity, the individual pus-cells being discharged singly, like the natural secretion or excretion of the part. Diffuse infiltration of the tissues is the most dangerous form of suppuration. In this variety of inflammation the exudate is brought into contact with the greatest possible extent of absorb- ent vessels, for as the surface of a sponge is greater than that of a bag which would just contain it, so the surface of these intercellular spaces is much greater than that of an abscess-cavity filled by the same amount of pus. In this form also the bands of cellular tissue lying between and forming the boundaries of these spaces have their nutrition and circulation impaired, and frequently slough, but, as they lie under unaltered skin and still remain partly in connection with the surrounding tissues by their fibres, their elimi- nation is very difficult. The entire skin of the part is frequently detached from the fascia by the sloughing of the subcutaneous tissues before it gives way, and even when it finally yields to the necrotic process the openings formed will be altogether too small in proportion to the extent of the disease beneath, so that healing is still further delayed. Sloughing.—The separation of a slough or a sequestrum is accomplished chiefly by the new cells, although it is uncertain whether these new cells consist of the wandering cells from the vessels, or whether the cells of con- nective-tissue origin are also included. Some claim that only the latter are concerned in this as well as other efforts of repair. But sloughs often sepa- rate at the height of the inflammatory process before any repair can have begun, so that there is reason to suppose that in some cases at least the sepa-