817 OPERATIONS ON THE CORNEA. Conical Cornea.—This is a cone-shaped bulging forward of the cornea, sometimes congenital, but usually developing about the fifteenth year. It is generally seen in women, and especially in those whose nutrition has been depressed by an exhausting illness. Even if the cone is transparent, vision is much disturbed, owing to the change in refraction, eyes of this character often being myopic and always highly astigmatic. In slight forms improve- ment follows the local use of eseriue and the adjustment of suitable glasses. In advanced cases operation may be needed, either an optical iridectomy, or, better, the application of a fine gal vano-cautery needle to the apex of the cone, which causes a contracting cicatrix and flattening of the protruding cornea. Later, an iridectomy may be required to improve vision. OPERATIONS UPON THE CORNEA. Paracentesis of the Cornea.—The cornea is punctured near its lower margin with a paracentesis-needle, which is inserted at an angle of forty-five degrees with the point of contact. The act of withdrawing the needle must be slowly performed, lest a sudden gush of aqueous cause prolapse of the eyeball. During the act of withdrawal the needle is slightly rotated on its Fig. 710. Paracentesis-needle with stilet. long axis, which opens the lips of the wound and permits the contents of the aqueous chamber to escape. If necessary, the wound may be reopened on the following day with the probe end of the instrument. (Fig. 710.) Saemisch's Section.—This operation is performed to evacuate pus in the anterior chamber or to check the progress of a sloughing ulcer. The eyeball is steadied with fixation forceps, and a cataract-knife is entered on one side of the cornea with its cutting edge forward, carried across the an- terior chamber to the other side of the ulcer, and the section made directly through the diseased area, evacuating the collection of pus in the layers of the cornea or in the anterior chamber. Operations for Staphyloma.—In partial staphylomas the protruding portion may be transfixed through its base with a cataract-needle. Next an elliptical piece of the cicatricial tissue is excised, together with the needle which transfixes it, by making an incision at one side of the needle with a narrow knife and another from the other side converging towards the first. The subsequent treatment consists in the application of a firm pressure bandage. A total corneal staphyloma may be abscised, but generally the best operation is evisceration. (See page 824.) Tattooing the Cornea.—Some India-ink being rubbed into a fine paste, and the cornea being properly anaesthetized with cocaine, a sufficient quantity of pigment is spread over the white scar and pricked into place by needles specially made for this purpose. If the scar is not large, one sitting is sufficient; generally, however, it is better to repeat the tattooing on several occasions until a uniform black surface is obtained. The cos- metic effect of this operation is often very good. 52