AMPUTATIONS ABOVE THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 287 The Flap, or Dupuytren's Method.—In this amputation, the arm being abducted to a right angle with the body, the flaps may be cut by transfixion or from without inward ; the external or large flap embraces the greater part of the deltoid muscle, and the smaller or short flap is cut from the inside of the arm after the head of the bone has been disarticulated. When amputating by transfixion, the surgeon pinches up the thick cushion of flesh overlying the shoulder ; the point of a narrow knife should be en- tered an inch in front of the acromion process and pushed across the outer aspect of the head of the humerus, shaving, if possible, the capsule, and brought out at the posterior fold of the axilla ; the knife is then made to cut downward until a large deltoid flap is formed; this flap is turned up and the head of the bone is disarticulated ; the knife is then placed behind the bone and a short flap is cut, keeping close to the bone so that the vessels are divided with the last cut of the knife. (Fig. 219.) Double Flap, or Lisfranc's Method.—In this method of amputation at the shoulder-joint the point of the knife is entered at the outer side of the coracoid process and is carried across the outer aspect of the head of the humerus, being brought out a little below the posterior border of the acromion process, and a long flap is cut with its apex below. This flap is turned up, the attachments to the head of the bone are severed, and it- is disarticulated. The knife is again entered behind the bone, and a long posterior flap is cut from within outward. Spence's Method.—In this method of amputation at the shoulder- joint an incision is made down to the head of the humerus, immediately in front of the coracoid process, and is continued downward through the clavic- ular fibres of the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles until the attachment of the latter to the humerus is reached; the incision is next carried back- ward to the posterior fold of the axilla; an incision including only the skin and the cellular tissue is next made from the anterior portion of the first incision across the inside of the arm to meet the incision on the outer side ; the outer flap thus formed is turned up, and the head of the bone is dis- articulated. The operation is completed by dividing the remaining tissues on the axillary aspect. Amputations above the Shoulder-Joint.—This form of amputa- tion is sometimes recpiired in extensive lacerations of the arm and the region of the shoulder, or in cases of growths which involve the shoulder-joint and the tissues above, and consists in the removal of the arm with a part or the whole of the scapula, and sometimes a portion of the clavicle. When the operation is done for injury, no definite lines of incision can be laid down, the practice being, as far as possible, to make the incisions in such a manner that the least possible amount of skin shall be sacrificed, so that a sufficient covering for the wound can be obtained. When done for the removal of growths involving the shoulder-joint, the incisions recom- mended by Treves may be employed. The patient should be placed on his back close to the edge of the operating-table. An incision should be made over the clavicle, extending from the inner extremity outward to a point a little beyond the acromio-clavicular articulation, which should be carried down to the bone; the clavicle being exposed, it should be divided