OSTEOTOMY. 654 Erasion has been more frequently practised in diseases of the knee-joint than in any other articulation, owing to the fact that in this joint the dis- eased joint surfaces can readily be exposed by a simple incision ; but it may be employed in other articulations. Erasion of the elbow-, shoulder-, or ankle-joint is a more difficult operation, because of the greater complexity of structure of these joints. Arthrectomy of the Knee-Joint—The joint should be exposed by a transverse or slightly curved incision across the front of the joint over the tendo patellar, similar to that employed in excision. The tissues should be divided and the joint opened, the tendo patella? being divided trans- versely, and upon flexing the leg the articular surfaces will be freely ex- posed. The diseased synovial membranes and articular cartilages should then be carefully removed with scissors or with a curette, the patella being turned up and its under surface carefully inspected. If the semilunar car- tilages are extensively diseased they should be removed, as well as any tuberculous deposits in the bone. After all the diseased structures have been removed the joint should be thoroughly irrigated and dusted with powdered iodoform, drainage-tubes introduced, and the capsular ligament and the ends of the severed tendo patella? securely brought together with catgut or silk sutures. The superficial portion of the wound should next be approximated with sutures, and a gauze dressing applied. After the wound has been dressed, the foot, leg, and thigh should be fixed in a plaster of Paris bandage. Even after the wound has solidly healed, to prevent the tendency to contraction of the knee, a plaster of Paris bandage, or a fixation splint of leather, or a metallic brace, should be worn for some months. OSTEOTOMY. This operation consists in making a section of a bone with a saw, an osteotome, or a chisel, and has of late years been widely and successfully employed to correct deformity in the bones. The operation may be done subcutaneously—that is, a small puncture is made with a knife just suffi- cient to admit the saw or the osteotome, and the bone is then divided—or may be practised as an open one, a flap of the soft parts being turned up to expose the bone, which is subsequently divided. Osteotomy may be either linear, when a simple linear section of the bone is made, usually subcutaneously, or cuneiform, when a wedge of bone is re- moved by a chisel, the open operation being employed in this case. In linear osteotomy, when the section of the bone is made with the osteotome or the saw and the correction accomplished, a gap is left to one side of the bone, which is subsequently filled up with new bone. (Fig. 585.) The instruments required for osteotomy are osteotomes of various sizes (Fig. 586), a narrow saw with a short cutting surface and a long narrow shank, Adams's saw (Fig. 587), a stout tenotome, and a mallet. The osteo- tome or chisel is the instrument most frequently used. Linear Osteotomy.—The skin of the part to be operated upon should be carefully sterilized, and a short flat sand-bag covered with a bichloride towel laid under the limb. A small incision is next made down to the bone at the point where it is to be divided, and the osteotome or saw is