830 INTRODUCTION OF LACHRYMAL PROBE. Fig. 722. tion of the lachrymo-nasal mucous membrane after the exanthemata, peri- ostitis and caries of the lachrymal bone, pressure from neighboring tumors —for example, in the antrum of Highmore—foreign bodies, and trau- matism. Treatment.—If the disease is not an aggravated one, an attempt may be made to check the inflammation by antiseptic irrigation through the point of a fine syringe introduced through the punctum without slitting the cana- liculus : in fact, it is advisable always, if possible, to avoid injuring this structure. In most instances of organic stricture, however, it is necessary to slit the canaliculus with a suitable knife, the probe-point of which is introduced into the punctum, while the lid is drawn down and out with the thumb. The knife is pushed on until it touches the inner wall of the lach- rymal sac, when it is raised to the vertical line with the cutting blade turned slightly inward. A lachrymal probe may now be introduced, in order to find the position of the stricture, and passed through it. Bowman's and Williams's probes are the most suitable. The probe is introduced by pass- ing it horizontally along the canaliculus until its point touches the lachrymal bone. It is then raised to the vertical position and pushed into the duct, remembering that the direction should be downward, slightly back- ward, and outward. (Fig. 722.) If judicious efforts fail to introduce the probe, the stricture may be divided by a suitable knife, intro- duced in the same manner as is the probe. One of the most useful instruments is the stricturotome of Charles Hermon Thomas, of Phila- delphia. When sounds are employed they should be used at first every second or third day ; after a time longer intervals may elapse. During this treatment the lachrymo-nasal duct should be frequently irrigated with an antiseptic fluid—for example, bichloride of mercury 1 to 5000, formalin 1 to 2000, or a weak solution of nitrate of silver 1 to 1000. The treatment of any case of obstructive lachrymo-nasal disease is incom- plete unless at the same time thorough attention is paid to the naso pharynx. Under certain circumstances, especially in children, and in cases where it is necessary to divide the stricture, an excellent plan is to introduce a style made of lead wire, slightly hooked over the inner canthus to prevent its slipping into the nose. Introduction of the lachrymal probe.