SLOUGHING ULCERS OF THE CORNEA. 814 in the nutrition of the cornea. It is frequent in anaemic and scrofulous subjects, and sometimes is caused by chronic inflammatory diseases of the conjunctiva. Purulent or Sloughing Ulcers.—These ulcers, as their name in- dicates, represent a purulent infiltration of the cornea with ulceration. They are frequently associated with pus in the anterior chamber {hypopyon) and inflammation of the iris (iritis). The most characteristic type is the so-called serpiginous or creeping ulcer, which consists of a sharply marked lesion, the edges of which are deeply infiltrated and its floor gray and sloughing. It is likely to spread and perforate the cornea, causing iritis, irido cyclitis, and even destruction of sight. Ulcers of this character usually start in an abrasion of the corneal surface, for example, after an injury. According to Uhthoff, they are caused by the pneuniococcus of Fraenkel. The infection may come from purulent inflammation of the lachrymal pas- sages. Instead of being an open lesion, the purulent infiltration is some- times covered with an unbroken layer of epithelium, which bulges forward, and there results the condition which is known as abscess of the cornea. This depends upon an inoculation of the infected area with the pathogenic organisms of suppuration, and may occur under the same circumstances as those which originate purulent keratitis, or may appear in connection with constitutional disturbances, particularly small-pox, scarlet fever, and measles. Other serious types of ulcers are those known as the rodent ulcer, or circular ulcer, which particularly selects the margin of the cornea, and rapidly eats its way through this membrane. Dendriform ulcers, so named from their fancied resemblance to the skeleton veins in a lanceolate leaf, probably depend upon a special micro- organism, but are also, under some circumstances, caused by malaria and other constitutional disturbances. In addition to the symptoms of ulcera- tion of the cornea, there is often marked neuralgia of the supra-orbital nerve. Treatment.—The ordinary ulcers of the cornea, which have been de- scribed as simple ulcers, require the same treatment that is useful in phlyctenular keratitis. In place of the yellow oxide of mercury before mentioned, calomel may be dusted into the eye, but must not be used if the patient is taking iodide of potassium. Deep and sloughing ulcers require more vigorous measures. If there is any tendency to iritis, the pupils should be dilated with atropine, and this mydriasis maintained. Pain is alleviated and the process of repair encouraged by the application of hot compresses according to the method already described, and the conjunctival cul-de-sac and lachrymo-nasal duct must be frequently irrigated with a saturated solution of boric acid or formalin 1 to 2000. The following measures are employed to stop impending perforation, and may be tried in the order named. First, a compress bandage applied over a dry, sterilized dressing ; second, paracentesis of the cornea ; third, curetting the ulcer, and dusting upon it finely powdered iodoform, to be followed by a pressure bandage ; preceding the application of the iodoform, the edges of the ulcer may be pencilled with a sublimate solution 1 to 2000; fourth, destruction of the diseased area with nitrate of silver (gr. x to f^i), applied by means of a camel"s-hair brush ; or with carbolic acid or tincture of iodine