EXClt)N OF THE RECTUM. 1035 In cases in which obstruction! and if done so as to establish escape, and not merely to f< portion of the fecal matter presence causes great discoi the greatest benefit. A pat| comfort for years and be abh Colostomy.—This opera<| of forming an artificial anus left or the right iliac region oij it is possible to prevent part from still entering the bowel artificial opening, and therefq colostomy is to be preferred. In exceptional cases the opej be done in the right iliac r< details of this operation, see Excision of the Rej Proctectomy.—The cases ol the rectum which are consic favorable for this operation a| which the disease does not if rectum beyond the reach of and in which it involves th^ rather than the anterior wall latter situation, involvement q der, prostate, urethra, or v seriously complicate the operd Fig. 823. dsts, left iliac colostomy should be performed, artificial anus, through which all the feces a lateral outlet to the bowel, permitting a 11 to find its way into the rectum, where its |rt, is an operation which will be followed by it with an artificial anus may often live in go about and attend to his business, suffer- ing little inconvenience fromlvoluntary fecal discharges, unless the bowels are very loose, and at the sail time the activity in the growth of the tumor often seems to be diminished |r the ablation of the function of the rectum. , which should be undertaken with the idea not a fecal fistula, may be performed in the the left lumbar region. In the latter position I the feces ►elow the left iliac Pig. 823.) lion may m. For re 950. im, or lancer of red most those in lolve the |e finger, posterior In the the blad- |na may >n. For this operation the patilt should have the bowels freely opened^ a laxative on the morning of the operation, and a few hours before he is amsthetized the lower bowel should be washed out with warm water or a soliiln of boric acid. The patient, having been anaesthetized, is placed in th^ithotomy position, with the pelvis slightly elevated. If the lower portion of the Ictum, including the anus, is involved, a cir- cular incision should be madelound the anus well outside the limits of the disease, and should be suppleimited by an incision from the posterior por- tion of the anus to the coccyx, the dissection should then be carried deeply into the ischio-rectal fossa, tbAtachments of the levator ani muscles being divided. The most difficult ki t of the dissection is the separation of the anterior portion of the relim from the vagina, urethra, and bladder. This should be accomplished mBi blunt scissors and the finger. It is well, in the male, to introduce a mind into the bladder, to serve as a guide during the dissection. In the Lnale the finger maybe placed in the vagina as a guide. When the dissect* has been carried up to a point abov e the Result of left iliac colostomy.