ISCHIORECTAL ABSCESS. 1011 haustion. We had under our care recently a case of gangrenous periproc- titis in a lady forty years of age, who about thirty-six hours before we saw her had her sphincter stretched for the relief of hemorrhoids by an irregular rectal specialist. Inspection of the anal region showed a brawny swelling of the skin, extending to the buttocks on both sides of the anus, and upon deep pressure crepitation could be distinctly felt in the subcuta- neous tissues. The patient was etherized, and a curved incision several inches in length was made on each side of the anus through the indurated tissues outside of the edge of the sphincter, exposing the cellular tissue, which was found to be of a leaden color and gangrenous. The wound was thoroughly irrigated, and two large rubber drainage-tubes were introduced to a depth of four inches, as well as some strips of iodoform gauze, to secure free drainage. After the incisions were made, the local and constitutional condition of the patient soon improved, and, although sloughs were dis- charged from the wounds for several weeks, she made a good recovery. Treatment.—The treatment of this condition consists in early and free incisions to secure good drainage, antiseptic irrigation, and the internal use of stimulants and tonics. Gangrene of the Rectum.—This condition, in which gangrene of more or less of the rectal tube occurs, is an extremely rare one. It is said, however, to be not uncommon in tropical climates. The condition seems to bear no relation to wounds of the rectum, but develops in persons of in- temperate habits upon exposure to cold and dampness. The symptoms are those of diffused periproctitis. In a patient fifty years of age recently under our care who presented these symptoms, an incision showed that the lower portion of the rectum was gangrenous although the anus and the sur- rounding skin were not affected. This patient a few days afterwards passed about three inches of the lowest part of the rectal tube through one of the incisions, and was in a fair way to recovery, when she suffered from an attack of heat exhaustion during a period of intense heat, which ended fatally. Treatment.—So far as we know, all cases of extensive gangrene of the rectum have terminated fatally. The treatment indicated is free incision of the tissues in relation with the rectum to establish drainage and facilitate the escape of the sloughing bowel, and if recovery should occur an inguinal colostomy would subsequently be required to relieve the obstruction to the passage of feces from the lower end of the rectal tube, by reason of the con- traction resulting from the cicatrization of the granulating cavity. Superficial Rectal Abscess.—This affection is characterized by pain and swelling in the anal region. This variety of abscess is not apt to lead to serious consequences, although if not opened promptly it may give rise to a superficial rectal fistula. Treatment.—The treatment consists in making a free incision in the inflamed part, even before the presence of pus can be demonstrated; the wound should be irrigated, and a strip of iodoform gauze should be loosely packed into it to prevent adhesion of the edges of the wound. Under this treatment prompt healing usually occurs in a few days. Ischio-Rectal Abscess.—This may be acute or chronic. The latter form of abscess often results from tuberculous infection, and is apt sooner or