SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 1040 Histologically, a chancre consists of an infiltration of round cells, with some giant and epithelioid cells. There are marked periarteritis and en- darteritis, the walls of the blood-vessels and the perivascular lymph-spaces sharing in the process. The cells are poorly nourished, and show a ten- dency to degeneration. Chancres are of variable duration, some lasting but a short time, and perhaps disappearing unnoticed—this is especially the case in women—while others last well into the secondary period. They may become phagedenic from the action of the same causes as in chancroid —namely, debility, intemperance, etc. Chancres in moist situations are in the secondary period liable to become converted into mucous patches. Mixed chancre is the result of a mixed infection with chancroid and syphilis in the same spot. Chancroid develops, runs its course,, and may or may not be healed by the end of three weeks, when the chancre develops, and induration specific in character begins to appear, followed by consti- tutional syphilis. Ee-ulceration of the scar and return of induration are not uncommon later in the constitutional stage, and may be mistaken for a fresh chancre. Syphilitic Bubo.—During the course of chancre, about the time of de- velopment of induration, the inguinal glands on one or both sides undergo a moderate enlargement. Several glands may be involved, one being usu- ally larger than the rest. The enlargement is painless, chronic, with a feel like that of the indurated sore, and suppurates only in cases of septic in- fection of the chancre. In extragenital chancres the buboes appear in the glands draining the region in which they originate, as the epitrochlear and the axillary in case of the finger, the submaxillary in case of the lip, and the inguinal in case of the rectum and the lower portion of the abdomen. The lymphatics themselves can sometimes be felt beneath the skin as hard painless cords. During the primary stage of syphilis the manifestations of the disease are purely local. After the appearance of the chancre there is a period of quiescence, lasting in the average case a little over six weeks (forty-five days), known as the period of secondary incubation, during which time the virus (bacterial or otherwise) is probably actively at work in the tissues, and at the end of this time the secondary constitutional symptoms appear. Secondary Syphilis.—The lesions of the secondary stage consist mainly of pathological manifestations in the skin, the mucous membranes, the blood, the lymph-glands, the eye, and some of the internal viscera. Fever is often present as the first constitutional symptom before the erup- tion appears. From its preceding the eruption it is called eruptive fever, and may in some cases precede each fresh crop of skin-lesions. It is higher in the evening, is accompanied by malaise and by osteocopic pains, and after a few days disappears with the appearance of the rash. The lesions of the skin and mucous membranes are the most prominent symptoms of the secondary stage. They are very important from a diag- nostic stand-point, both as to the existence of the disease and the different stages of its progress. The eruptions simulate non-specific skin affections, and include roseola, papules, pustules, tubercles, and sometimes vesicles and bullae ; the latter are not uncommon in congenital but are very rare in