222 POISONED WOUNDS. POISONED WOUNDS. Dissection Wounds.—Wounds received in the dissection of dead bodies or in making post-mortem examinations often present a special viru- lence. Poisoned wounds of this variety are usually received in the post- mortem examination of bodies recently dead from infectious diseases, the poison entering through a wound or an abrasion, but may also occur through absorption by the sweat-glands or sebaceous glands. Bodies in which death has occurred from septic peritonitis, erysipelas, pyaemia, and septicaemia are most likely to give rise to serious infection of post-mortem wounds. The infective micro-organisms, however, retain their virulence for only a short time after death, and are replaced by the bacteria of putrefaction. Persons who handle dead animals may be infected through wounds or abra- sions, and may develop wounds of the same character. Infection may develop in wounds received by the surgeon in operating upon infected cases, giving rise to a similar specific infection, or a mixed infection may result. Individuals vary in their susceptibility to the infection of wounds re- ceived in post-mortem examinations and in operating upon infected subjects. If the individual be in ill health the constitutional resistance is diminished, and a wound accompanied by serious symptoms is more apt to develop. Symptoms.—The symptoms following a dissection wound vary with the character and the amount of the poison introduced. Occasionally the symptoms following such a wound are those of acute septic intoxication ; the wound becomes painful, red, and swollen, and sloughing of the tissues in the neighborhood of the wound may occur ; the patient exhibits the symp- toms of collapse, the pulse becoming rapid and feeble, and he may become delirious and die in a few days. A cellulitis may develop which rapidly extends up the arm, the temperature being 103° F. (38.5° C.) or 104° P. (40° 0.), the pulse rapid and feeble, with profuse sweating ; suppuration or gangrene may occur, and the patient may die of septicaemia, pyaemia, or exhaustion, or may recover after a protracted illness. On the other hand, the wound may become red and painful, a papule or pustule may develop, and the lymphatic vessels, becoming inflamed, may be seen as red lines run- ning up the arm. The axillary glands become enlarged and painful, and the patient complains of a chilly feeling, followed by marked fever ; an abscess develops, and after this is opened the local and constitutional symptoms rapidly disappear. Owing to the fact that infection may occur from an unsuspected abrasion of the skin, or from absorption of the poison by the sweat-glands or seba- ceous glands, it is a wise precaution before making post-mortem examina- tions to smear the hands thoroughly with cosmoline or lard. Treatment.—The prompt treatment of a wound received in dissecting or in operating may prevent serious consequences. If one receives a wound in making a post-mortem examination upon a subject who has died of an infectious disease, or in operating upon an infected subject, the wound should be shut off from the general circulation by a ligature, firmly tied above the part, thoroughly washed, as well as the surrounding skin, with a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution, then sucked, and its surface wiped over