281 AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOREARM. arm. In amputating at the wrist-joint anteroposterior flaps are usually em- ployed. The hand should be held in the pronated position and somewhat flexed; a curved incision is made from one styloid process to the other, and a convex flap an inch and a half in length is turned up from the back of the hand. (Fig. 206.) The hand is then strongly flexed, and the posterior radio-carpal ligament is divided. The joint being exposed, the knife is next applied to the lateral ligaments, and when the joint is freely opened, the knife is carried through it and made to shape an anterior or palmar flap by cutting downward and outward. ( Fig. 207.) This anterior or palmar flap should be longer than the posterior flap. After disarticulation of the hand the tips of the styloid processes may be removed with a saw or with bone forceps, although their removal is not absolutely necessary. The Vessels requiring ligature in amputations at the wrist are the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries. Amputations of the Forearm.—The forearm may require amputa- tion at any point between the wrist and the elbow, and the circular, the modified circular or oval method, which consists in oval skin-flaps with cir- cular division of the muscles, or the method by rectangular flaps (Teale's) may be employed. At the lower portion of the forearm the circular method is that usually employed. In the upper portion of the forearm the modified circular method is most satisfactory. Circular Method.—In performing this operation a circular incision of the skin and cellular tissue is made, and a cuff is dissected up for about two inches, the muscles and interosseous membrane being cut through ; a three- tailed retractor is next applied, and the bones are divided with a saw. (Fig. 208.) The tendons are apt to project from the surface of the stump, and they should be drawn down and retrenched. The principal arteries re- quiring ligatures are the ulnar, radial, and anterior and posterior interos- seous : a few muscular branches may also require ligation. The median, radial, and ulnar nerves should also be drawn out and retrenched. Modified Circular or Oval Method.—Amputation of the forearm by this method is very frequently resorted to. It consists in first dissecting up Fig. 206. Fig. 207. Lines of incision in amputation at the wrist. (Agnew.) Disarticulation at the wrist. (Agnew.)