LIGATION OF THE ULNAR ARTERY. 387 Fig. 292. skin and superficial fascia are divided, the superficial veins being avoided, and the deep fascia is exposed. When the edge of the supinator longus mus- cle is recognized its aponeurosis is divided along its ulnar side and the fibres of the pronator radii teres muscle are exposed ; the vessel lies in the interspace between these muscles, surrounded by adipose tissue, and after being exposed the veins should be isolated and the needle passed from without inward. The radial nerve lies so far external to the artery that it is not often exposed in this operation. Ligation of the Radial Artery at the Middle Third of the Forearm.—An incision two inches in length, following the same line as that for the ligation of the upper third of the artery, should be made, and having divided the skin and the superficial and deep fasciae, the artery is found in the interspace between the flexor carpi radialis on the inner side and the supinator longus on the outer side. The radial nerve at this point of the arm is in close relation to the vessel on the radial side, and the needle should be passed around the artery from with- out inward. Ligation of the Radial Artery at the Lower Third of the Forearm.—An incision two inches in length, following the same line as that for the ligation of the upper third of the artery, is made one inch above the wrist. (Fig. 292.) The skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia having been divided, the artery will be found be- tween the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis on the inner side and the tendon of the supinator longus on the outer side ; the veins being separated, the needle may be passed in either direction. Ligation of the Ulnar Artery.—The ulnar artery descends along the inner side of the forearm between the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle on the inside and the flexor sublimis digitorum on the outside. The artery rests upon the flexor profundus digitorum muscle, and has the ulnar nerve to the inner side. The ulnar artery is tied at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm and at the lower third. Ligation of the Ulnar Artery at the Junction of the Upper and Middle Thirds of the Forearm.—An incision three inches in length should be made, starting four inches below the internal condyle of the humerus, on a line passing from this point to the outer border of the pisiform bone. Having divided the skin and the superficial and deep fas- ciae, the interspace between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis digitorum muscles will be exposed. Entering this space and raising the flexor sublimis digitorum and working transversely across the arm, the artery will be found resting upon the deep flexor, with the ulnar nerve to the ulnar side. The needle should be passed from the nerve around the artery. Ligation of the Ulnar Artery in the Lower Third of the Forearm.—An incision two inches in length should be made a little to the radial side of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, ending an inch above Ligation of the radial artery at the upper and lower thirds and of the ulnar artery at the lower third. (Agnew.)