FRACTURE OF THE ILIUM. 476 tain whether the bladder has escaped injury. The pelvis should next be surrounded with a stout muslin binder, or broad strips of adhesive plaster should be applied over the ilium on each side, across the sacrum, to produce fixation of the fragments. If the pain is severe, opiates should be adminis- tered, and it is well to keep the bowels confined for a few days by their use ; at the end of this time they should be moved by an enema, and after they have been freely moved they may be kept quiet again by the same means. In uncomplicated cases the patient should be kept in bed for four weeks. In compound and complicated fractures of the sacrum a much longer period of rest in bed will be required. Fracture of the Coccyx.—This fracture is not a common one, and results from the application of direct force to the coccyx from kicks, blows, or falls. The displacement is usually forward, and the principal complica- tion following the fracture is a neuralgic affection of the coccyx known as coccygodynia. Treatment.—This consists in placing the patient in the recumbent posture, in such a manner that no pressure shall be brought to bear upon the coccyx : anterior projection of the fragment may sometimes be relieved by introducing the finger into the rectum and pushing the fragment back- ward. It is probable that in spite of treatment a certain amount of an- terior projection of the fragment always results after fracture of the coccyx. At the end of three weeks the union is usually sufficiently firm to allow the patient to pursue his ordinary occupations. Fracture of the Ilium.—In fracture of the ilium the line of fracture may separate the crest or the anterior superior spinous process, or it may extend through the body of the bone from the great sacro-sciatic notch forward. (Fig. 397.) Fractures of the ilium are usually produced by falls, or by the pelvis being caught between heavy bodies and crushed. Symptoms.—The most prominent symp- tom of this accident is pain on motion ; the patient is unable to stand or walk, and crep- itus maybe elicited by grasping the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and making lateral motion. Where the crest of the bone alone is broken, the detached fragment may be found drawn away from the body of the bone by the action of the abdominal muscles. Where the superior spinous process is broken, it may be drawn downward by the action of the sartorius mus- cle. In extensive fractures of the ilium the abdominal viscera may be seriously injured. Treatment.—The patient should be placed in bed upon his back, and the lower extremities flexed by placing pillows under them, the head and shoulders also being supported on pillows to relax the abdominal muscles. The pelvis should be surrounded by a stout binder of muslin firmly secured by pins, or broad strips of adhesive plaster should be passed around the pelvis, producing fixation of the fragments. In compound fractures of the Fig. 397. Fracture of the ilium. (Agnew.)