43 CELLULITIS. prevent extension of the inflammation to the entire cavity. Chronic in- flammation of these membranes is marked by general thickening of all the layers, the formation of dense connective tissue in the fibrinous membranes, strong adhesions, and sometimes complete obliteration of the cavities, their endothelial lining disappearing entirely. The clinical and other facts of surgical importance will be considered more fully under diseases of the vari- ous membranes, such as the peritoneum, pleura, arachnoid, tunica vaginalis, and those lining the joints. Cellulitis.—Inflammation of the connective tissue, or cellulitis, has been fully described in the preceding sections, for it is from this most common form of inflammation that the general picture has been sketched. It is in- variably caused in surgical practice by bacterial infection, and almost in- variably results in the production of pus. The infection takes place through a wound, and more ofteu through a minute puncture than an extensive wound, probably because in the latter the tissues are freely divided, the dis- charges escape at once, and any infection which is present shows itself only in the suppuration of the wound surfaces, not gaining headway enough to invade the surrounding tissues; whereas in wounds which are narrow and deep the micro-organisms develop abundantly in the deeper parts where blood is retained, and manufacture the toxines which impair the vitality of the surrounding tissue, so that the bacteria are enabled to attack the lat- ter with success. An infected wound becomes painful a few hours after it has been received, even if entirely unnoticed at the time, a point of redness develops around it, the part swells and becomes tender to pressure, and these symptoms spread for some distance from the injured point, showing more tendency to extend towards the body in the direction of the returning blood- and lymph-vessels than distally. If the infection has begun in very deep structures, such as the tendon sheaths or the periosteum of the finger, there may be no indications of the commencing inflammation, except pain and tenderness on pressure. The infection attacks the lymphatics, and is carried upward along them to the nearest glands. In some cases the lym- phatic vessels themselves are inflamed, and their course can be traced on the skin by the red lines or indurated cords resulting from that inflamma- tion. In other cases the irritant leaves no sign as it passes through the vessels, but the nearest lymph-node will become swollen and tender. In some cases there will be no tendency of the original inflammation to extend beyond its original site, although it may be intense enough to produce an abscess or even extensive sloughing at that point. In others it will begin to advance before the local inflammation seems to have reached the stage of suppuration, and within a few hours a cellulitis which began in some minute wound of a finger may involve the entire arm. In these rapidly spreading cases the subcutaneous tissues are very dense and brawny, feeling as if injected with wax, the overlying skin is red and cedematous, and some- times of a bluish hue, owing to the great obstruction which exists in the circulation, and the line of advance is usually well marked. Treatment.—In this type of cellulitis there is little tendency to produce pus at once, but the inflammation is so intense that sloughing often follows, and, as this is the principal danger, immediate incisions are needed, and