CHAPTER IV. SPECIAL FORMS OP INFECTION. ERYSIPELAS. Definition.—Although it is now pretty generally acknowledged that there is no essential difference between the coccus of Fehleisen, at one time held to be the specific germ of erysipelas, and the streptococcus pyogenes, the affection known as erysipelas is so different clinically from the ordi- nary infection produced by the streptococcus that we must still describe it separately. Erysipelas is a form of inflammation of the skin, marked by oedema and a dusky flush, which is strictly limited from the healthy skin by a sharp edge. It begins in any part of the body, and advances at one edge while it often subsides at another, thus wandering over the surface. The constitutional symptoms in the milder forms are scarcely perceptible, but in the severer cases they present the profoundest septic intoxication. There are two clinical varieties, phlegmonous erysipelas and facial erysipelas, and we prefer to describe with them the '' erysipelatoid'' of Eosenbach. Phlegmonous Erysipelas.—In this form, which is most frequently found upon the extremities in connection with ulcers or cellulitis, but may also appear on the trunk or head, the skin of the part becomes faintly reddened, then cedematous, the rosy hue giving way to a dusky-red flush, the skin being apparently increased to two or three times its ordinary thick- ness, and becoming dense and brawny. The edge of the affected area is sharply distinguished from the healthy skin by the color and the oedema. The disease progresses in a solid mass, and, although the edge may be very irregular, outlying spots are very rarely seen. After a time the skin first attacked begins to grow pale again and the oedema disappears, the only trace of the inflammation left behind being the desquamation of the epithelium and the falling of any hair growing upon the part. Often, however, the inflam- mation of the skin is accompanied by a cellulitis, which results in the for- mation of extensive sloughs and abscesses, although the skin itself seldom sloughs even when this complication is added. The patient complains of heat, weight, and, finally, intense burning pain in the part, but in some cases there is no pain. The disease is ushered in by a chill, which may be very severe, followed by a sudden and great rise of temperature, often reach- ing 105° to 106° F. (40° to 41° C). The inflammation may progress steadily or by sudden leaps, every extension being marked in the latter case by chills and another rise of temperature. The fever is of the septic type, with sudden elevations and depressions, the former sometimes not being accom- panied by any visible spread of the inflammation. In these severe cases the patient soon becomes delirious or somnolent, the latter indicating per- 48