348 ARTERITIS. as pulsation, bruit, and thrill are present in both affections. The differen- tiation of these conditions may be made by observing that in cirsoid aneu- rism the tumor is not so well defined as in varicose aneurism, and that the pulsation, bruit, and thrill are not arrested by compressing a single arterial trunk, as is the case in varicose aneurism. In aneurismal varix the pulsa- tion can be arrested by compression of a single arterial trunk. Treatment.—The treatment of these forms of vascular growths is diffi- cult, and often fails from the fact that the blood-supply is not derived from one distinct vessel, but from numerous vessels. If the disease involves a limited area, the continuous wearing of a metallic shield will protect the part from injury, and may be followed by a cure. If, however, it is in- creasing, operative treatment should be undertaken, consisting in ligation of the supplying vessels, strangulation of the mass by a ligature, ligation of the main artery of the part, excision of the diseased tissues, or the em- ployment of electrolysis. All methods of operative treatment except the use of the ligature and electrolysis are accompanied by considerable hemor- rhage. If hemorrhage can be controlled by elastic constriction by an Es- march strap or tube, and the disease is not too extensive, excision is the most satisfactory method ; the incisions should be made well away from the growth. The application of a number of ligatures to the vessels at the margin of the growth and ligation of the main artery supplying the growth have been attended with only moderate success. The strangulation of the whole mass, if moderate in extent, by one or more ligatures has been em- ployed in some cases with success. Electrolysis has recently been employed, and the results following its use seem to indicate that it is a safe and reliable method. The needles passed into the growth are attached to the positive pole, and a surface electrode is attached to the negative pole and placed upon the surface of the body. A strong current of one hundred and fifty or two hundred milliamperes is required. The application may have to be repeated a number of times, and, as the operation is painful, the production of anaesthesia is required at each application. ARTERITIS. Arteritis is an inflammation of the coats of an artery, and the terms endarteritis, mesarteritis, and periarteritis are used to designate inflammation respectively of the inner, the middle, and the external coat of the vessel. Arteritis may be either acute or chronic. Acute arteritis may exist in several varieties—acute plastic arteritis, suppurative arteritis, and embolic arteritis. Acute Plastic Arteritis.—This is the condition which develops after wounds or ligation of arteries in which aseptic conditions obtain, and rep- resents a reparative process which can scarcely be classified under the head of a disease. The process has been described under the repair of wounded arteries. This condition gives rise to no marked symptoms and requires no special treatment. Suppurative Arteritis.—This consists in an acute inflammation of the coats of an Artery, the infection arising from the presence of pyogenic organ- isms. The disease usually begins as a periarteritis, the external coat of the artery being infected by exposure in an unclean wound, by the presence of