DISEASES OF THE NASAL SINUSES. 745 disconnected from its original base. It is found only in the young, aud almost invariably in males, being quite common just about puberty. Many of these tumors undoubtedly undergo spontaneous atrophy. In structure they are either soft or hard fibromata, often very vascular, but they are liable to return when removed, and they are also very liable to degenerate into true sarcoma. These growths appear to be rather rare in America. Their symptoms are those of nasal obstruction, distention of the nose, orbit, and pterygo-maxillary space, and the ordinary deformity of tumors of the upper jaw, combined with severe hemorrhages from the tumor, which may prove fatal. They may cause obstinate neuralgia by pressure. Treatment.—Operations upon naso-pharyngeal polypi are useless unless the base of the tumor is reached and destroyed, and the operation is often very formidable. In order to reach the base some surgeons have divided the bones of the nose on one side, and then broken the bones opposite and turned the whole organ over as a flap. Others have detached the soft pal- ate and cut through the hard palate for the same purpose. Still others have removed the upper jaw, that bone being sacrificed or being left at- tached to the soft parts and replaced after the operation. If the diagnosis can be made before the polypus has grown large, the tumor may be removed through the natural passages by the cold wire or galvano-cautery loop, or by passing a sharp spoon through the nose to the base of the polypus, guiding it by the finger passed through the mouth into the pharynx, and scraping the tumor away from its attachment to the bone. The hemorrhage during this manoeuvre may be severe, and it is necessary to operate with the pa- tient's head hanging down over the end of the table, lest he be suffocated by the blood, but it is easily controlled by pressure after the tumor is removed. Before the tumor is detached the mass should be secured by a volsellum or a thread passed through it, lest it fall into the larynx. Rhinoscleroma.—Ehinoscleroma is a disease of the soft parts of the nose, pharynx, and mouth. It appears in the shape of hard flat nodules of small size forming in the skin and mucous membrane, and usually begin- ning far back in the lower part of the nose, and progressing forward to the nostrils. The sense of smell is not disturbed, and the only sign of the dis- ease may be an obstinate catarrh with an occasionally purulent discharge. These nodules spread over the entire pharynx, and sometimes over a part of the tongue and mouth, down into the larynx. They appear to be caused by a special bacillus, which has been isolated. In the later stages the nodules form connective tissue and the mucous membrane contracts, and this con- traction may cause such obstruction of the larynx as to compel tracheotomy. No cure is known for this disease, but fortunately it is rare in this country. Diseases of the Nasal Sinuses.—Frontal Sinus.—The frontal sinus in the adult occupies the internal two-thirds of the orbital ridge and extends upward about one-half inch above the orbital margin. In children it is very small—scarcely larger than a pea. Fracture.—A fracture of the superior wall involves the base of the skull, and any fracture of the sinus involves great liability to sepsis, because the secretions and blood may be retained in the sinus and may decompose. Even if the fissure does not extend through the base of the skull, intra-