FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. 889 fracture is very seldom found, although in some cases motion may be felt in the fragments. (3) Pain and Tenderness. Pain may or may not be present, and it is often due rather to pressure upon or injury of the nerves than to the injury of the bones. Local tenderness is a very common symp- tom, and is useful in locating the exact site of the lesion. (4) Crepitation can seldom be obtained with the slight amount of motion which it is safe to make in the examination. Spinal Cord Symptoms.—The canal containing the cord is so narrow that even a slight displacement of the bones causes pressure upon that organ, the amount of injury to the latter depending upon the degree of the pressure. The cord may be crushed and entirely divided or it may be slightly compressed by the displaced bones. In the first case a com- plete paralysis results, and its extent depends upon the situation of the injury to the cord, varying from a complete paralysis from the neck down- ward to a paralysis of the lower extremities only. In the more localized and partial injuries, and especially if the nerve-roots only are compressed, the paralysis may be confined to a single group of muscles or to a single extremity. The injury to the cord is frequently out of proportion to the displacement of the bone, as the latter partly returns to its proper position, and the compression is partially relieved in at least two-thirds of the cases. Besides actual destruction or compression of the cord by the displaced bone, the injury may cause the formation of a hsematoma in the canal or in the substance of the cord which will cause symptoms of gradually in- creasing pressure. In any case of fracture or dislocation of the spine, besides the immediate injury inflicted on the spinal cord a secondary de- scending myelitis with degeneration is quite common. In injuries of the upper four or five cervical vertebrae, although the cord is less likely to be injured, because that is the widest part of the canal, there is great danger of sudden death from injury to the phrenic nerve. Paralysis of the inter- costal muscles may be produced by injury at this point or even in the dorsal region. Paralysis of the bladder and of the intestine may be produced by injury in any part of the cord. Priapism is a common symptom of injury in the cervical region. The reflexes may be present or they may be lost. Pressure sores form over the sacrum and over any of the bony points on the paralyzed limbs, and even on the penis where it rests on the edge of a vessel in constant use in cases with dribbling of urine. The pressure sores may become very extensive, covering the entire back, and add considerably to the exhaustion of the patient. In simple dislocation of the spine there is most frequently a forward displacement of the upper vertebra at the point of injury. This is called an anterior bilateral dislocation when it affects both lateral articulations, and when it is confined to one side it is called a rotary dislocation. The bilateral form is the more common and also the more dangerous. Backward dislocation is rare, except that in rotary dislocations a partial backward dis- placement is found in the joint of the opposite side. It is sometimes pos- sible to distinguish dislocation from fracture by the greater rigidity and the frequent occurrence of contractions of the muscles supplied by nerves above the point of injury in the dislocation. Beduction of the deformity is also