1026 TREATMENT OF STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. rupture may occur. (Fig. 818. ) The formation of fistula in connection with stricture is often observed. Symptoms.—The symptoms of stricture may not be marked until the contraction of the rectal canal is well advanced, and consist of slight morning diarrhoea and the discharge of a little bloody mucus and thin brown fluid. The tape-like shape of the stool is supposed to be characteristic of stricture, but this is not always the case, for in strictures high up in the canal the feces may accumulate in the bowel below the stricture and be passed in large masses. Stricture of the rectum may cause death by complete obstruction of the bowels, or by rupture of the bowel above producing peritonitis, or the patient may be worn out by long-continued irri- tation and suppuration resulting from the affec- tion. Diagnosis.—Stricture of the rectum can usually be recognized by a digital examination, and its differentiation from malignant growth is made by observing the following conditions. It is a disease of adult life, and exists a long time without producing constitutional disturbances \ the mucous membrane, if present, is not indu- rated, and pain is usually complained of only during the act of defecation. Treatment.—This may be either constitu- tional or local. Stricture of the rectum due to gummatous infiltration of the anus or the rectum, which is a comparatively rare affection, may disappear under the use of mercury and iodide of potassium, but that resulting from the cicatrization of chancroidal or gummatous ulceration is not affected in any way by constitutional treatment. Internal incision is attended with so much danger that it is rarely em- ployed. Dilatation.—When the stricture is situated well down in the rec- tum, dilatation may be accomplished by the use of the finger or of bougies, and the best bougie to use for this purpose is a soft rubber one. In using bougies extreme gentleness should be exercised in their manipulation, and the dilatation should be very gradual ; forcible dilatation is a dangerous procedure, and should not be employed. Their use is always attended with some risk of rupture of the gut, as very little force may rupture a thin portion of the wall of the gut in connection with a stricture. This accident may cause no pain, and cases have occurred in which neither the surgeon nor the patient was aware of its occurrence at the time. By gradual dilata- tion the canal may be so much increased in size that obstructive symptoms disappear and the patient experiences great comfort, but a permanent cure of the stricture does not result, so that the regular passage of the bougie should be practised to maintain the dilatation. Linear proctotomy, or external incision, is employed with advantage in strictures where the passage of the bougie is followed by great pain and Non-malignant stricture of the rectum. (Agnew.)