491 SUTURE OF THE PATELLA. position of the upper fragment; the lower fragment should also be fixed by a compress and oblique strips of plaster, applied in the opposite direction and secured to the splint above. (Fig. 415.) A bandage should then be Fig. 415. Application of splint, compresses, and strips in fracture of the patella. applied to fix the splint firmly to the leg and thigh, being carried over the knee aud to the upper end of the splint (Fig. 416); or an Agnew's splint, which consists of a posterior splint with pegs, around which the ends of the adhesive plaster applied above and below the ends of the fragment are fastened, may be employed. After the application of the splint and bandage the limb should be elevated and placed upon an inclined plane or in a frac- ture-box the lower end of which has been elevated, in order to relax the rectus muscle. This dressing is usually retained for from four to six weeks, Fig. 416. Dressing for fracture of the patella. at the end of which time there is generally firm fibrous union at the seat of fracture. The splint should then be removed, and a plaster of Paris bandage applied extending from the middle of the leg to the thigh, and retained for several weeks. Fixation by Sutures.—Another method of treatment in fracture of the patella consists in exposing the fragments by an incision with full antiseptic precautions, aud introducing heavy silver wire sutures to secure apposition of the fragments, or iu the employment of Stimson's method, in which the capsule and the periosteum are sutured with catgut. These methods have been practised with success, and apparently in some cases bony union has been secured. The question of exposing aud wiring the fragments in cases of fracture of the patella is one which has to be decided in individual cases. The results obtained by the more conservative methods of treatment are usually reasonably satisfactory, and it is to be remembered that there is a defi- nite amount of risk in exposing the patella and opening the joint. No one