599 ACUTE SYNOVITIS. Dislocations of the Phalanges of the Toes.—These dislocations are not so common as dislocations of the phalanges of the fingers, but are occasionally seen, and result from twists and extreme flexion. Symptoms. —The symptoms of dislocation of the phalanges of the toes are a prominence at the articulation and shortening of the injured toe. Treatment.—The reduction of dislocation of the phalanges of the toes is accomplished by ex- tension and counter-extension with manipulation. After the reduction the part should be fixed by the application of a moulded binders' board gutter, which should be retained for several weeks. DISEASES OF JOINTS. SYNOVITIS. Synovitis consists in an inflammation of the synovial membrane of a joint, may arise from local causes, such as sprains and contusions, or from infective or tubercular inflammation of the bones and cartilages of the joints, or from constitutional causes, such as gout or rheumatism. It may exist as an acute or as a chronic affection. Acute Synovitis.—This affection may result from contusions, sprains, twists, wounds, exposure to cold or dampness, infective processes, or rheumatism. The synovial membrane becomes injected and cedematous, and its secretion is increased in amount, and may be thin and watery or, from excess of fibrous exudations, flocculent or purulent; the joint at the same time becomes distended from the excess of secretion. Symptoms.—The prominent symptoms of acute synovitis are pain, increased by motion of the joint or by pressure upon the articulation, and swelling, which changes the normal shape of the joint; there may also be more or less flexion of the joint as a result of the intra-articular effusion. Fluctuation is usually marked in the region of the joint in which the cap- sule is thinnest. The skin is hot to the touch, but is often unchanged in color. Elevation of temperature is usually present, the degree of elevation depending upon the size of the joint, the acuteness of the attack, and its cause. In acute septic synovitis chills occur, and are accompanied by a septic temperature; the swelling of the joint increases, and the skin be- comes cedematous and red, pointing to the presence of pus within the joint. Treatment.—The first indication in the treatment of acute synovitis is to place the joint at rest by the application of a splint, and it is often more comfortable to the patient if the joint is fixed in a semi-flexed position. Cold should then be applied by means of an ice-bag, and this may be fol- lowed by the use of a lotion, such as lead water and laudanum. If the dis- tention of the joint is great, and it is likely that the vitality of the synovial membrane and cartilages is threatened, the joint should be aspirated with full antiseptic precautions. Tins procedure quickly relieves the distention, and hastens the cure of the case. When the acute symptoms have subsided, the use of elastic pressure by means of a rubber bandage, or the application of tincture of iodine or massage, will often be followed by good results. Acute synovitis in healthy subjects rarely terminates in suppuration, but in debilitated subjects such a termination may occur. If, in spite of treat-