FRACTURES OF THE LOWER JAW. 437 Fracture of the Malar Bone.—Fracture of the malar bone is usually the result of direct force, and unless the antrum is broken into there will not be much displacement. These fractures are often associated with a fissure which passes into the orbit, terminating in the sphenoidal fissure. Symptoms.—The signs of this accident are pain, discoloration, occa- sionally mobility and crepitus, and some degree of deformity. If the line of fracture extends into the orbit, extravasation of blood at the outer canthus of the eye is fre- Fig. 335. quently present. If the infra-orbital branch of the fifth pair of nerves is involved, there may be loss of sensation in some of the anterior teeth and in the gums, and also in the ala of the nose. Treatment.—If there is displacement, it should be corrected by pressure applied inside of the mouth or outside of the cheek. If the body of the bone is depressed by being driven into the antrum, if a wound is present the frag- ment may be raised by means of an elevator, or if no wound is present a screw elevator may be introduced through a puncture in the soft parts, and it may be raised by this means; if there is no marked displacement, a compress should be applied over the seat of fracture and held in position by adhesive Strips. Dressing for fracture of the upper jaw. Fracture of the Zygomatic Arch.— This bone is occasionally broken, but the accident is a rare one. It is usually produced by direct force, and is apt to involve that portion which is attached to the temporal bone, which is the weaker part. Symptoms.—The swelling and contusion of the soft parts usually mask the condition, and, unless there is great deformity or irregularity, it is often difficult to diagnose this fracture. If the fragment is depressed, it may press upon the masseter muscle or the tendon of the temporal muscle, and inter- fere with the movements of the lower jaw. Treatment.—In cases of fracture of the zygomatic arch without dis- placement, the jaws should be fastened together with a Barton's bandage to secure rest of the masseter and temporal muscles. When the fragment is displaced and there is involvement of the tendon of the temporal muscle, if no wound is present exposing the seat of fracture it may be necessary to make an incision, introduce an elevator, and raise the fragment into its normal position, or the fragment may be raised by a loop of strong silver wire passed beneath it with a curved needle. In fractures of the malar bone and zygomatic arch, when the deformity has once been corrected there is little tendency to its reproduction, and union is usually quite firm at the end of three weeks. Fractures of the Lower Jaw.—These fractures are generally pro- duced by direct force applied either to the side of the bone or upon the chin, and frequently result from falls upon the chin, from blows, or from the kicks of horses. Fractures of the inferior maxillary bone may involve