SALIVARY CALCULUS. 753 Treatment.—Complete extirpation of the cyst is the only satisfactory method of treatment. This can be accomplished through the month, or by making an incision through the skin below the chin. The latter operation is to be preferred, as it is then possible to keep the wound aseptic, but removal through the mouth is a satisfactory operation. In the latter method the mouth should be held widely open with a gag, and the tongue held upward with a retractor ; an incision is then made through the mucous membrane over the cyst, the muscles are separated with a director, and the cyst is exposed; this is seized with toothed forceps, and as it is drawn out its walls are separated from the surrounding tissues with the finger or a blunt director, the use of the knife or the scissors rarely being required. When the cyst has been removed, a strip of iodoform gauze is passed to the depth of the wound ; this is allowed to remain in place for a few days, and an anti- septic mouth-wash is used frequently until the wound is healed. If external incision below the chin is resorted to to expose the cyst, it is removed by a careful dissection, the wound is drained by a strip of iodoform gauze, the external wound is closed by sutures, and a gauze dressing is applied. Salivary Calculus.—This consists of a concretion of phosphate and carbonate of calcium, which may form in the salivary glands or in their ducts, and is most frequently met with in the submaxillary gland. If it forms in the substance of the gland it rarely produces marked symptoms unless it attains a considerable size. A small calculus obstructing the duct may produce pain and swelling of the gland. These concretions vary in size from that of a grain of wheat to that of a walnut. Symptoms.—If the calculus is impacted in the duct the escape of saliva is arrested, the gland becomes swollen, tender, painful, and hard, and the symptoms are aggravated during the act of mastication. These symptoms should lead the surgeon to explore the gland and duct: by palpating with the finger in the mouth the location of the calculus can usually be ascertained without difficulty. If the obstruction of the duct persists, suppuration is apt to occur, and a fistulous opening may form upon the cutaneous surface. Treatment.—When the calculus is situated near the opening of the duct it may be pressed out of the opening with the finger, or after injecting a few drops of cocaine the orifice of the duct may be incised to facilitate its removal; it may then be pressed out of the wound or removed with forceps. The wound usually heals promptly. DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. Tongue-Tie.—This is a comparatively rare affection, and consists in an abnormal shortness of the frenum linguse or of its attachment too far for- ward towards the tip of the tongue, which prevents the protrusion of the organ beyond the line of the upper incisor teeth. We have seen very few cases of marked tongue-tie in the service of a large children's hospital. If this condition is present the child may experience difficulty in taking the breast, and later impairment of speech may be marked. Any child who is not precocious in talking is apt to be credited with this affection and to be brought to the surgeon for treatment. A very aggravated form of tongue- tie sometimes results from the tongue being bound down by cicatricial ad- hesions after ulceration of the organ and of the floor of the mouth. 48