INTUBATION OF THE LARYNX. 867 sible, the surgeon feels for the prominence of the thyroid cartilage, and, steadying the larynx with the finger and thumb of the left hand, he makes an incision in the median line from the centre of the thyroid cartilage, ex- tending downward for an inch or an inch and a half; the skin and super- ficial fascia being divided, the fascia between the sterno hyoid muscles and the areolar tissues should be severed, and the crico thyroid membrane is exposed. The knife is then passed transversely through the membrane into the larynx, care being taken that both this membrane and the mucous mem- brane which covers its inner surface are divided at the same time. As soon as the knife enters the cavity of the larynx, blood and mucus will be forci- bly expelled. The only bleeding which is likely to occur is from the crico- thyroid arteries or veins; if these cannot be avoided, and are divided, they should be temporarily secured by haemostatic forceps or ligatured, and, if the case is not extremely urgent, all hemorrhage should be arrested before the crico thyroid membrane is incised. The after-treatment of cases of laryngotonry is similar to that of cases of tracheotomy, and the same attention is required in the care of the tube and in the general management of the patient. If the operation is done for a foreign body impacted in the larynx, the wound should be dilated, and the foreign body removed with forceps ; if done for the relief of an inflam- matory condition of the larynx, it may be necessary to introduce a tube into the wound for a few days. The tube employed in laryngotomy differs from the ordinary tracheotomy-tube in being slightly flattened. Laryngo-Tracheotomy.—This operation consists in making an in- cision which divides one or two of the upper rings of the trachea, the crico- tracheal membrane, the cricoid cartilage, and the crico-thyroid membrane. It may be employed in cases in which, from the age of the patient, the crico- thyroid space is too small to admit of a sufficient opening, or in those in which for any reason the surgeon does not deem it advisable to attempt to open the trachea lower down. The incision in the skin and the superficial fascia of the neck is made in the same manner as in the operation of laryn- gotomy, but is carried a little farther downward. It may also be necessary to displace the isthmus of the thyroid gland downward as the wound is deepened, to expose the upper portion of the trachea. When the trachea has been exposed, it should be opened by making an incision through it and the cricoid cartilage from below upward. After the trachea and cricoid cartilage have been divided, a tracheotomy-tube should be introduced into the wound; and the after-care of the case is similar to that of a case of tracheotomy. INTUBATION OF THE LARYNX. This is an operation in which a metallic tube is passed through the mouth into the larynx and allowed to remain there for a certain period, for the relief of dyspnoea resulting from laryngeal stenosis. Intubation of the larynx has recently been widely practised in the treatment of inflammatory affections of the larynx as a substitute for tracheotomy, and is generally employed to relieve dyspnoea in diphtheritic and membranous croup, in stricture of the larynx, and occasionally in oedema of the glottis. Intu-