RESULTS OF CORNEAL ULCERS. 815 applied on the end of a probe ; or, finally, with the actual cautery, either in the form of a galvano-cautery, or, when this is not at hand, with a platinum probe heated red-hot in the flame of a Bunsen burner. The exact area to be destroyed may be outlined by dropping upon it a two per cent, solu- tion of fluorescine, which colors greenish yellow all portions of the cornea denuded of epithelium. If there is much hypopyon, this should be evacuated by means of a para- centesis cornese, or, if the infiltration of the corneal layers exists without ulceration, the abscess may be opened with a delicate cataract-knife. It is important in severe corneal ulceration to treat all associated condi- tions—namely, disease of the naso pharynx, disease of the lachrymal pas- sages, and disease of the teeth. Careful search should be made for foreign bodies and misplaced cilia. The constitutional treatment should consist of tonics, particularly iron, quinine, and arsenic, or of such remedies as may be indicated by any existing dyscrasia, Proper hygiene and diet, fresh air, and all measures which will promote the general health are of paramount importance. Results of Corneal Ulceration.—The result of a corneal ulcer depends upon its depth and extent, but it should be remembered that every corneal ulcer leaves some form of scar. It may be slight, and is then called a nebula or macula, or dense and white, and is then known as a leucoma. If the ulcer has perforated, the iris is usually attached to the margin of the ulcer, and there is formed the so-called anterior synechia, which may begin to bulge and Fig. 708. Fig. 709. Adherent leuconias of the cornea. Staphyloma of the cornea. produce a partial corneal staphyloma (Fig. 708), or, if the perforation has been an extensive one, there may be staphylomatous bulging of the entire corneal surface. (Fig. 709.) Slight opacity of the cornea may be relieved by massage of the cornea with yellow oxide of mercury. Galvanism also has some repute. Well- marked scars, and particularly dense leucomas, are unaffected by this treat- ment. Vision may sometimes be helped by a suitably placed iridectomy, or the patient's appearance may be improved by tattooing the scar with India- ink. In staphyloma, iridectomy may prevent further bulging, or may be needed to alleviate pain or secondary glaucomatous symptoms, but if the staphyloma is unsightly and the eye blind, either enucleation or evisceration should be performed.