367 AORTIC ANEURISM. places. The needles are allowed to remain in place for several hours to forty-eight hours. He holds that this procedure is followed by the forma- tion of a white clot. This operation may, if necessary, be repeated at intervals of several weeks, and infection should be carefully guarded against. It is sometimes followed by improvement, but is to be recom- mended only as a last resort. Amputation may be called for in aneurisms of the extremities in the event of failure of other means of cure, or because of complications which develop in the course of the disease. Thus, internal rupture with threat- ened gangrene, external rupture, erosion of bone or involvement of joints, and suppuration, may, after resisting other treatment, demand removal of the limb. Actual gangrene, of course, leaves no alternative. Secondary hemorrhage at the seat of ligature may be checked at first by religation of the ends of the vessel, but if persistent and evidently due to, disease of the vessel-wall it will, in the lower extremity at least, demand ampu- tation. Amputation below the sac is sometimes resorted to in aneurism of the subclavian, and acts by diverting the blood-current, by diminish- ing the amount of blood passing through the sac, and also, perhaps, where the aneurism, is situated close to the seat of amputation, by encouraging the spreading of a clot from the point of ligation of the divided vessel backward into the sac. TREATMENT OF SPECIAL ANEURISMS. Aortic Aneurism.—The aorta is the most common seat of aneurism in the body. Aneurism is most frequent at the arch and rarest in the ab- dominal aorta. Any of the various forms may be present. Aneurism of the arch may grow to a large size without producing severe symptoms, which are mainly due to pressure. There is usually dulness over the tumor ; auscultation may be negative, or there may be a systolic murmur, a double murmur, or an accentuation of the second sound. Pulsation is often felt through the chest-walls. If it grows anteriorly it causes bulging and per- foration of the ribs, cartilages, and sternum (Fig. 276); growing posteriorly, it erodes the vertebrae and causes compression of the cord ; growing upward, it produces pulsation at the root of the neck (Fig. 277) ; the heart is often displaced downward and to the left. Venous engorgement from pressure on the superior vena cava and its branches is common; inequality of the radial pulses, dyspnoea, cyanosis, and congestion of the lung are often seen. Pain of a boring or burning character is produced by the erosion of bone. Pressure on the nerves causes a neuralgic, lancinating pain. Dysphagia and dyspnoea, cough and hoarseness, are produced by pressure on the oesophagus, the trachea, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Pressure upon the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves may cause disturbance in their distribution. Death follows rupture externally or into the pleura, pericardium, oesopha- gus, or trachea, from pressure on the surrounding structures, and from syncope due to failure of the left ventricle to propel the large amount of blood in the sac. Aneurism of the aorta must be diagnosed from aortic insufficiency, solid tumors, pulsating pleurisy, and the marked aortic pulsa- tion seen in neurotic patients.