952 APPENDICITIS. lay on the left side of the middle line, and abscesses have not infrequently been caused by it in this situation. Whatever its position, its base is always in connection with the anterior longitudinal band of the colon as it runs down over the caecum, and this can be used as a guide when it is difficult to find. Pathology.—The vermiform appendix consists of two layers of muscle, longitudinal and circular, covered externally with peritoneum and inter- nally with a mucous membrane resembling that of the caecum, except that it is very rich in lymphoid tissue. In the diseased state the first change is a catarrhal one, consisting simply of congestion of the mucous membrane, thickening, and an increase of secretion. Foreign bodies are frequently found in the cavity of the appendix, which should normally be empty. These foreign bodies are almost invariably hardened masses of feces, but occasionally in their centre will be found a pin, the seed of a fruit, or some such object. Strictures are frequent, and adhesions often fix the organ in a bent position. In rare cases the distal part of the appendix is entirely shut off by the obliteration of the lumen, and a cyst is formed which may be of large size. Ulcerative inflammation is also common, and may result in perforation. The tip of the appendix or any part of its wall may become gangrenous, or the entire organ may slough. Appendicitis is much more common in men than in women, and occurs before the thirtieth year in three-quarters of the cases, although it may occur at any age. The causes of appendicitis are not fully understood. In some cases it would seem that ulceration had produced a cicatricial stricture or adhesions, which bent the organ, and the stagnation of its contents thus pro- duced resulted in the production of a fecal concretion, which, in its turn, ex- cited ulceration or sloughing of the wall. In others the sloughing appears to be the result of the intensity of the inflammation. The inflammation is due to bacterial infection, either by the colon bacillus or the ordinary pyogenic germs, and occasionally by the tubercle bacillus. It is probable that constipation and chronic gastro-intestinal disturbance also act as predis- posing causes by exciting catarrhal inflammation. Injury by a direct blow has occasionally resulted in perforation of the appendix, and severe mus- cular effort may injure it by sharp flexion or traction when adhesions exist. Some believe that rheumatism may cause inflammation of the appendix, on account of the large amount of lymphoid tissue, as in the tonsil. The appendix is frequently found in herniae, on the left side as well as the right, and may become inflamed in this situation. Varieties of Appendicitis.—There are several clinical varieties of appendicitis: first, colic of the appendix, characterized by sharp attacks of pain, accompanied by vomiting, prostration, and tenderness in the region of the appendix, in which early inspection of the parts has shown that there was no inflammatory change in the tissues of the organ. These attacks often occur in patients who have an appendix bound down by adhesions or stric- tured, being apparently the result of obstructions due to these causes. The treatment of this condition in a first attack should be simply pallia- tive. If the attacks are frequent, however, and do not yield to medical treatment, an operation for removal of the appendix may be necessary. In the second form, catarrhal appendicitis, there may be sharp attacks