210 SUTURES. of another button or through the perforations of a lead plate. After the sutures have been passed in this way they are tightened and tied over the button or plate. (Fig. 151.) This variety of suture may be employed in deep wounds to accomplish the same purpose as the quilled suture, and, as it does not bring about very close apposition of the cutaneous margins of the wound, a few interrupted sutures may be employed in conjunction with it. Shotted Suture.—The shotted suture receives its name from the method by which it is secured. After the suture has been introduced the needle is removed, and the ends are passed through a perforated shot and drawn upon to bring the edges of the wound in contact; the shot is then pressed down to the skin and clamped with a shot-com pressor, and the suture is cut off flush with the surface of the shot. (Fig. 152.) This method of securing sutures is especially useful in closing wounds in mucous cavities, such as the vagina, rectum, and mouth, where a knot or twist of the wire or silkworm-gut might cause irritation. The presence of the shot also facilitates the removal of the suture, as the shot is not apt to be obscured by the swollen tissues, and is easily seized with forceps before the loop is divided. Lembert's Suture.—This suture is generally used in wounds of the viscera covered by the peritoneum, with the object of bringing in contact the peritoneal surfaces. It is the form of suture usually employed in closing wounds of the intestine, bladder, or stomach. In applying this suture an ordinary sewing-needle should be employed, in preference to the bayonet- pointed needle, as less bleeding is apt to result Fig. 153. from its puncture. The needle is first carried through the peritoneal and muscular coats of the intestine, and is then carried across the wound and passed through the same portion of the in- testine a short distance from the edge of the wound on the opposite side; when the suture Lembert's suture. is tightened the peritoneal surfaces of the in- testine are inverted and brought into contact with each other. (Fig. 153.) The interrupted or continued suture may be employed in making this form of suture. Removal of Sutures.—Catgut sutures usually undergo absorption in from five to fifteen days : the loop buried in the tissues is absorbed, and the knot may be removed with forceps or may come off with the dressings. Sutures of silk, silkworm-gut, or silver wire are removed by cutting one side of the loop and making traction upon the knot of the suture with forceps; in case of the silver wire suture, after dividing the loop and straightening out one end of it, the wire should be withdrawn in a curved direction. Sutures which do not cause any irritation should be allowed to remain in position until the wound is healed ; the time usually required for their retention in the case of aseptic wounds is from eight to twelve days. LIGATURES USED IN THE TREATMENT OP VASCULAR GROWTHS. Various forms of ligatures are used for the strangulation of vascular growths. The material employed is usually strong silk, hemp thread, cat- gut, or silver wire.