SYMPATHETIC INFLAMMATION. 822 (3) To prevent recurring attacks of inflammation in the iris, and some- times to aid in the healing of a corneal ulcer—a medium-sized peripheral iridectomy should be performed. (4) To remove a portion of the iris containing a foreign body or growth —an iridectomy sufficiently large to accomplish this purpose is required. (5) Preliminary to the extraction of cataract, or for the purpose of ripen- ing cataract—a medium-sized iridectomy is usually required. DISEASES OF THE CILIAKY BODY. SYMPATHETIC IREITATION AND SYMPATHETIC INFLAMMATION. Cyclitis.—Inflammatory affections of the ciliary body are described under the name cyclitis, and are usually seen in association with iritis: hence the term irido-cyclitis. Symptoms.—They are not unlike those already described in connection with iritis, but are more decided—namely, oedema of the upper lid, great tenderness on pressure, precipitates in the cornea, extensive posterior synechias, and marked lessening of visual acuity, due to opacities in the vitreous. The tension of the eye is generally either lowered or raised. The injection of the circumcorneal or ciliary zone is always marked. Like iritis, cyclitis may appear in a plastic, a serous, or a purulent variety. The prognosis is always grave, and the disease may terminate in glau- coma or atrophy of the iris and the choroid, while in the purulent varieties the vitreous becomes filled with opacities, the lens becomes cataractous, and the eyeball shrinks—the so-called phthisis bulbi. The causes of cyclitis are similar to those of iritis. As already stated, the two are usually combined, and the treatment of the disease is the same as that already described in connection with iritis. Inasmuch as injuries of the ciliary body are prone to be followed by the so-called sympathetic affections of the eyes, it is convenient to consider them in this connection. Sympathetic irritation and sympathetic inflammation are two distinct affections, although usually spoken of in close connection, inas- much as they originate from the same conditions. Sympathetic affections of the eye are most commonly caused by punctured wounds of the ciliary region, which set up a traumatic irido-cyclitis. They may also be due to foreign bodies, wounds and ulcers of the cornea, operations on the eye, dislocation of the lens, and ossification and calcification of the choroid and ciliary body. Sympathetic irritation is a functional disturbance, and generally shows itself in the form of photophobia, lachrymation, blepharospasm, and pain through the ciliary region and supra-orbital nerve area. It may arise within a few days after the reception of an injury, and sometimes occurs as early as forty-eight hours. The injured or diseased eye which causes the sympa- thetic irritation is called the "exciting eye," and the eye which is impli- cated as the result of the disease or injury, the "sympathizing eye." The treatment of sympathetic irritation consists in the removal of the exciting eye, or, at least, in treatment which prevents impulses from passing from this eye to the other.