NEPHRECTOMY. 1127 Nephrectomy.—The kidney may be removed by an anterior incision, by traversing the peritoneal cavity, or by an extraperitoneal operation. A small kidney may be removed by the incision just described for nephrot- omy, and for larger tumors the same incision may be prolonged towards the middle line without opening the peritoneal cavity, if the peritoneum be stripped off the anterior abdominal wall as the incision is extended. An extraperitoneal operation may be made through an incision parallel to the external border of the rectus, but somewhat farther out, through which the peritoneum is reached, and the latter stripped off the anterior and lateral walls of the abdomen until the kidney is exposed. If necessary, the wound may be enlarged by dividing its external lip at its centre, at right angles to the first incision, which produces a I— shaped incision and gives abundance of room and yet does not directly invade the peritoneal cavity. In cases of pyonephrosis it is necessary to operate extraperitoneal!y, on account of the danger of infecting the peritoneal cavity. Even in cases of solid tumors without infection it is wise to employ this operation, because the ureter must be left in the pedicle and is a frequent source of infection. For a tumor of very large size, however, the transperitoneal method has frequently been used with success, the mortality being but little higher than that of the extraperitoneal operation. In the transperitoneal method the incision may be made in the middle line or at the external border of the rectus, opening the peritoneal cavity directly. The abdominal contents are pressed over to the opposite side of the middle line and thoroughly pro- tected by sponges or pads of gauze. The peritoneal coating of the kidney is then opened on the outer side of the colon and the latter displaced inward, when the kidney can be dissected from its bed and lifted into the wound. The ureter and vessels are separated bluntly and tied with separate ligatures. If the ureter is full of infectious material, it should be secured in the anterior abdominal wound. If not, it may be dropped back with the rest of the pedicle and the posterior layer of peritoneum united over it. In the extraperitoneal method the kidney is freed from its attachments and brought outside of the wound if possible. A double ligature is then passed through the pedicle and tied without attempting to separate the vessels and the ureter, as it is rarely possible to obtain a good view of these parts, and the renal vein has very thin walls. The kidney is cut away from the pedicle and removed. If desired, the ureter can then be dissected from the vessels and tied separately, but, as a rule, it is unnecessary, and the wounds heal well with slight drainage. If any rent has been made in the perito- neum, it is either closed at once or protected with gauze or sponges and closed at the end of the operation. The external wound is closed with deep or buried sutures, a small opening being left for drainage by a tube or wick of gauze. The drainage-sinus is sometimes troublesome in healing, often refusing to close until the ligature has separated and been removed. One advantage claimed for the intraperitoneal operation is that it enables the surgeon to determine the condition of the other kidney by direct exami- nation, but if this is important a separate incision can be made for this purpose and closed before doing an extraperitoneal nephrectomy.