840 OTITIS MEDIA. should be syringed with a 1 to 60 carbolic solution, and powdered boric acid insufflated. In case of myringitis due to aspergillus the cavity should be illuminated by a head-mirror, and the membrane carefully detached by the use of delicate forceps, or by syringing the ear with a solution of peroxide of hydrogen or alcohol 1 part, warm water 3 parts, the surface then being dusted with a powder composed of salicylic acid 1 part, boric acid 16 parts. DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR. Inflammation of the Middle Ear.—This is one of the most common aural diseases, and may exist as a catarrhal or as a purulent affection. Otitis Media Catarrhalis.—This consists in a catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane of the middle ear, and usually results from cold in the head. It is very common in children, but is also seen in adults, and is characterized by intense pain or earache. From sepsis this variety of in- flammation of the middle ear may pass into the purulent form, constituting the affection known as otitis media purulenta. This latter affection is often observed as a sequel of the exanthemata in children. Treatment.—This consists in the application of dry heat to the ear, which is accomplished by the use of a hot-water bag or bottle or a Japanese hand-warmer, or by the injection of water into the auditory canal as hot as the patient can bear. If this does not relieve the pain, an anodyne may be required. If the pain is not relieved by this treatment, it is probable that the catarrhal otitis will soon pass into the purulent form, and to avoid sup- puration leeches should be applied, two Swedish leeches being placed in front of the tragus and one beneath the lobule of the ear. If in spite of these measures the pain continues, the patient should be etherized and the tympanum perforated with a paracentesis knife or needle, the point of the perforation being indicated by the bulging of the membrane. The after- treatment consists in the use of hot douches, if antiseptic gauze tampons do not suffice to remove the secretion as fast as it is formed. Chronic Catarrh of the Middle Ear.—This affection results from repeated attacks of acute catarrh of the naso pharynx or middle ear, and is accompanied by a chronic hypertrophic condition of the mucous membrane of the tympanic cavity and its contents, with retraction of the membrana tympani and partial ankylosis of the ossicles. The symptoms of chronic catarrh of the middle ear are tinnitus and more or less impairment of hear- ing ; pain is usually slight. Treatment.—As this affection depends largely upon disease of the naso- pharyngeal membrane, the treatment of that condition is a prime factor in the cure of the disease, and consists in the use of medicated sprays and local applications, as well as the removal of the hypertrophied tissues, where accessible, by the use of the galvano-cautery. The catarrhal swelling of the mucous membrane prevents the entrance of air into the tympanic cavity, and the inflation of the Eustachian tube and the cavity of the tympanum should be accomplished by the use of Politzer's method or the Eustachian catheter. The method of inflation known as Politzer's is that most easily practised, and consists in throwing air into both tympanic cavities at the moment of swallowing by a rubber bag, the nozzle of which is placed in