1028 COMPLETE PROLAPSE. the presence of hemorrhoids or of polypi, which have a tendency to drag the mucous membrane downward and also to produce severe straining; severe and long-continued efforts in defecation in cases of obstinate con- stipation, or straining efforts from obstruction to the free passage of urine from the bladder, caused by a tight phimosis, a vesical calculus, a stricture of the urethra, or an enlarged prostate. In children the presence of angular flexures in the lower part of the colon, requiring severe straining to produce fecal evacuations, and the straightness of the coccyx, are anatomical factors which tend to its pro- duction. Improper diet and overfeeding, and the custom of allowing chil- dren to eat continually through the day, as a result of which there occur a large number of passages, may also give rise to this affection. We have often seen children sent to the hospital for operation in whom, after a few days' stay, with a properly regulated diet, the prolapse failed to appear at stool, and often could not be made to appear even with the use of enemata. The practice, so common with mothers and nurses, of keeping the child upon the chamber utensil for a long time tends to the production of prolapse. Symptoms.—The most marked symptom of this affection is the pro- trusion during defecation of a red mass, composed of folds of mucous membrane with sulci between them. The protrusion is usually unaccom- panied by pain, and generally undergoes spontaneous reduction as soon as the straining efforts cease. If, however, the prolapsed mucous membrane is allowed to remain out for a time, it may become congested, or even ulcerated, and some difficulty may be experienced in its reduction. Diagnosis.—In cases of partial prolapse the diagnosis is usually not dif- ficult. The appearance of the folds of mucous membrane with a central depressed orifice is characteristic. The condition may be confounded with hemorrhoids or with polypus of the rectum, but a careful examination will reveal its true nature. Complete Prolapse.—This condition, which consists in the protrusion of all the coats of the rectum, usually develops gradually from cases of partial prolapse which have existed for some time, but may develop sud- denly as the result of violent expulsive efforts. When the protrusion reaches a considerable size the possibility of the peritoneum being included in the mass should always be remembered, and, owing to the fact that the peritoneum descends lower upon the anterior than upon the posterior surface of the rectum, it is more apt to be found in the anterior portion of the mass. In some cases the prolapsed mass is very large, and cases have been observed in which the greater part of the colon was included in the protrusion. The appearance of complete prolapse is very characteristic—the semi-ovoid tumor covered with mucous membrane, the sulci parallel to the anus (Fig. 820 ), and the greater size of the mass serving to distinguish it from partial prolapse. Treatment.—The treatment of prolapse of the rectum is either palli- ative or radical. The palliative treatment consists, first, in the reduction of the mass. This can generally be accomplished best by placing the patient upon his stomach and making gentle pressure upon the central portion of the