ETHER. 253 of anaesthesia. It is, as before stated, the safest and most prompt in its action of the anaesthetics known at the present time. Preparation of Patient for General Anaesthesia by Ether or Chloroform.—The patient should take no solid food for at least five or six hours before the anaesthetic is given ; when it is possible, the bowels should be previously opened, and the urine should be voided just before the admin- istration of the anaesthetic, as it is apt to be passed during the anaesthesia, and may infect the wound or soil the clothing. In feeble patients the administration of an ounce of whiskey half an hour before the anaesthetic is given is a useful precaution. False teeth or foreign bodies, such as tobacco, chewing-gum, etc., should be removed from the mouth. The patient should be placed in the recumbent posture, syncope being less apt to occur in this position, as it facilitates the circulation between the heart and the brain, and the head should be turned to one side. Care should always be taken that there is no tight clothing around the neck, chest, or abdomen which might embarrass the respiratory action. The lips, nose, and anterior nares should be anointed with cosmoline, to save them from irritation by the anaesthetic ; this is especially important if chloroform is employed ; the eyes should also be covered with a towel, to prevent irri- tation of the conjunctiva. The urine should be previously examined, if possible, especially if ether is to be administered. The anaesthetizer should always listen to the heart's action as a part of the routine preparation before giving an anaesthetic : this enables him to detect any irregularity in its action, and at the same time has a good moral effect upon the patient, especially if he can assure him that he can take the anaesthetic with safety. The anaesthetizer should attend to the administra- tion of the anaesthetic only, and should watch carefully the condition of the pulse, respiration, and pupils. In administering an anaesthetic to females, a second person should always be present, as these drugs often cause erotic sensations, and the patient after recovering from their effect may have the impression that she has been subjected to undue liberties, which impression can best be refuted by the statement of a witness who was present at the time. It is always well to have another physician present during the administration of a general anaesthetic, as unforeseen difficulties occasionally arise. There should always be at hand tongue forceps, and instruments with which tracheotomy may be performed if necessary, also whiskey, nitrite of amyl, digitalis, and strychnine, and a hypodermic syringe. ETHER. Ether is at the present time the substance which is most widely em- ployed in North America for the induction of general anaesthesia ; if care- fully and intelligently administered, its use is attended with comparative safety, and there are few conditions which contra-indicate its employment. The accidents which we have seen occur during its use have been largely the results of carelessness on the part of the anaesthetizer, and have gener- ally been due to mechanical asphyxia from the accumulation of mucus or vomited matters in the pharynx, or from falling back of the tongue, or from