CLASSIFICATION OF TUMORS. 79 by interfering with the performance of the functions of important organs. Malignant tumors have all the opposite characteristics : they grow rapidly, they are seldom encapsulated, they tend to invade the surrounding parts, they are poorly nourished and are apt to slough or ulcerate, and they invade the blood-vessels and lymphatics and thus form secondary tumors. On account of these reasons, and by their foul discharges, then- interference with the functions of various organs, and a peculiar sort of cachexia, they invari- ably terminate fatally. But there are some intermediate varieties, tumors otherwise benign which grow rapidly and form secondary tumors, and ma- lignant tumors of slow growth without much tendency to dissemination. Some tumors which have been apparently benign may suddenly begin to grow rapidly and become malignant. These cases are explained by assuming that a change has taken place in the tissues of the tumor, and that they have taken on the malignant form of growth and lost their innocent char- acter. Malignant tumors are commonly called cancer, but some would re- strict that name to carcinoma. Classification.—The pathological classification is based on the structure of the tumors, and it is followed in the nomenclature of new growths, the general termination oma signifying a tumor, and being preceded by a Greek prefix describing the tissue of which it is composed. Thus we have osteoma, chondroma, fibroma, adenoma, and even angioma, signifying tumors of bone, cartilage, and fibrous, glandular, and vascular tissue. The terms sarcoma and carcinoma are arbitrarily formed on the same plan, the name sarcoma being given to tumors composed of tissues of connective-tissue origin resem- bling those normally found in the foetus but not in the adult, and carcinoma to tumors made by a wholly unnatural growth of epithelial cells. Tumors may be divided into two main classes, according to their origin from the connective tissues or from the epithelium. There is a fundamental difference between the tissues of the mesoblastic layer of the foetus, from which arise the bones, muscles, connective tissue, blood-vessels, etc., and the epiblastic and hypoblastic layers, which pro- duce the epithelial tissue—skin, mucous membranes, and glandular struc- tures. As no cell originates spontaneously, every cell must be descended from a previous cell, and it has been proved that every cell inherits the characteristics of its parent cell; in other words, "like begets like." On account of this rule a cell belonging to the mesoblastic layer, whether it is in the bone, muscle, or connective tissue, or is one of the endothelial cells lining the vessels or serous cavities, can produce only a connective-tissue cell, never an epithelial cell; and, conversely, a cell belonging to the other two layers can produce only epithelium. This rule applies to the origin of tumors as well as to the growth of normal tissues. Epithelial tumors such as adenoma and carcinoma can originate only from tissues or organs which contain epithelial cells. Bony, fatty, and other tumors composed of tissues of mesoblastic origin, and sarcoma which resembles the connective tissues of the foetus in structure, can grow only from tissues of like origin. It has been shown that there is a definite connection between the struc- ture of tumors and their clinical course. It may be said in a general way that the more nearly the structure of the tumor approaches some normal