1185 HYDROCELE IN THE FEMALE. the induration and fixation of the parts are less, the ulcers have not the characteristic, brittle, readily bleeding granulations, and the tendency is towards destruction rather than production of new tissue. A short and determined course of antisyphilitic treatment should be tried in doubtful cases, and a portion removed for microscopic examination. Treatment.—Complete extirpation is the only possible treatment of these malignant growths, but it is rarely feasible, on account of the great extent of the disease when first seen. Extirpation should be limited to movable tumors, as there is no hope of a radical cure after they have become fixed to the deeper parts, and decided enlargement of the inguinal glands also contra-indicates operation. Vaginal cancer should be thoroughly ex- amined with the finger in the rectum and a sound or a finger in the bladder. Involvement of these organs need not prevent an attempt at extirpation, as the openings which may be made in them can be closed afterwards. But any extension of the disease into the cellular tissue around the vagina or in the broad ligament, as shown by adhesions or thickening of the parts, would contra-indicate operation, because a radical cure would be impossible. In tumors limited to the vaginal mucous membrane, the latter and the sub- mucous tissue should be thoroughly and widely cut away. Diseased portions of the bladder and rectum are to be removed. The hemorrhage is usually free, but can be controlled by mass ligatures or by clamps aud press- ure. In operating for epithelioma of the vulva, a thorough extirpation of the inguinal glands on both sides is to be added, even if they are not perceptibly enlarged, as the glandular tumors are more frequently the cause of death than a local recurrence. Various plastic operations may be re- quired to cover the defects made by the excision. Excision is to be preferred to the use of the cautery, on account of the thoroughness and the greater exactness with which the work can be done. In inoperable cases improve- ment can sometimes be obtained by thorough cauterization of the ulcerating surface after removing the softer tissues with the curette, which lessens the hemorrhage and discharge, and sometimes even the pain. Elephantiasis of the vulva is due to filaria-infection, lymphatic ob- struction, or the solidification of a chronic (Edematous swelling caused by the inflammation of the parts. In the tropics immense tumors are found, and even in this country the swelling may be sufficient to compel operation. The skin and subcutaneous tissues are thickened and oedeniatous, and the surface is usually papillomatous, with hypertrophy of all the constituents of the skin. The tumors are not so hard as epithelioma, and the structure of the altered skin is different. The swollen parts may be excised, hemor- rhage being arrested by clamps and pressure, aud the edges of the wound brought together with sutures. Hydrocele in the Female.—Occasionally a process of peritoneum ac- companies the round ligament down through the canal of Nuck into the labium majus, and it may become shut off from the general peritoneal cavity and fill up with serous fluid, forming a cyst to which the name of hydrocele is given on account of its analogy to scrotal hydrocele. These cysts are usually pear-shaped, having a neck running up towards the inguinal ring, which distinguishes them from cysts of Bartholin's glands. The diagnosis from 75