ANATOMICAL TUBERCLE. 223 with a thirty-grain solution of chloride of zinc. The ligature should then be removed, and the wound dressed with a moist dressing of bichloride or acetate of aluminum gauze and cotton. When infection of the wound has occurred, as evidenced by severe pain, the development of a pust ule, and inflammation of the lymphatic vessels and glands, the treatment should consist in first thoroughly washing the parts with soap and water and bichloride solution ; the pustule being opened, and the skin freely trimmed away, so as to obtain a full exposure of the wound, this should be washed with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, and swabbed with a thirty-grain solution of chloride of zinc. The wound should then be dressed with moist acetate of aluminum or sublimated gauze, and the patient should be given quinine in full doses, and stimulants if the appetite fails. Under this treatment, even when the lymphatic vessels and glands were involved, we have usually seen the local trouble as well as the con- stitutional disturbance rapidly disappear. In cases which exhibit symptoms of acute septic intoxication from the start, unfortunately, treatment seems to have very little effect: the wound and swollen tissues should be incised to relieve tension, irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, and dressed with a moist antiseptic dressing. The patient should be given quinine and tincture of chloride of iron in full doses, as well as strychnine and stimu- lants, and should also be given a concentrated and nutritious diet. If imme- diate death is averted, sloughing and profuse suppuration, with septicaemia or pyaemia, may cause a fatal termination at a later period ; if the patient does not succumb, it may be a long time before he regains his health. Change of air and scene is very important in establishing convalescence, and should be recommended as soon as the patient can be moved. Anatomical Tubercle.—This name is applied to warty or papular growths which occur upon the thin skin of the back of the hand, over the knuckles and the metacarpal bones, of those who constantly handle the dead bodies of human beings or animals. (Fig. 161.) The growths consist of enlargements of the cutaneous papilla?, which are covered with a dense layer of epidermis, presenting somewhat the appearance of ordinary warts. They are tender upon pressure, and if irritated serum ex- udes, which may dry and form scabs upon their sur- face. Eecent investigations have shown that many of these growths are due to the local inoculation of tubercle bacilli. Anatomical tubercle is not a com- mon affection in this country, but is quite common in Europe. Treatment.—If the hands are protected from the causes which favored their development, the growths will often disappear; if, however, the growths fail to disappear after the cause of irritation has been removed, nitric or acetic acid should be applied to them, and will accomplish their removal. If the surface involved is exten- sive, they may be removed by the use of a curette. Fig. 161. Anatomical tubercle. (Bryant.)