397 NEURALGIA. Chronic Neuritis. — This condition may follow acute neuritis or may develop slowly from long-continued irritation of nerves from local or constitutional causes. In this affection there is marked sclerosis of the connective tissue of the endoneurium, with pressure on the nerve- tubules, which produces degeneration and atrophy of the same. Chronic neuritis may exist as an ascending or a descending neuritis; the former, however, is more common. This form of neuritis is also apt to be con- founded with neuralgia or rheumatism, but the development of sensory, motor, and trophic disturbances will often show the true nature of the affection. Treatment.—Pain, if prominent, should be relieved by the hypodermic use of morphine, atropine, or chloroform ; counter-irritation by the use of blisters, or the actual cautery, may be employed with benefit. The faradic or constant galvanic current should be employed in cases in which there are paralysis and muscular wasting. The patient should be well fed, and care taken that he secures sleep. Strychnine can often be used with advantage, and in rheumatic or syphilitic cases, or gouty cases, treatment appropriate for these affections should be instituted ; in some cases nerve-stretching may be resorted to with success. Eecovery under any form of treatment is slow, and is often imperfect. Neuralgia.—Neuralgia is an affection of the nerves, characterized by acute paroxysmal pain, which is referred to the areas of their distribution, and often without discoverable organic lesions. Neuralgia is apt to occur in debilitated, anaemic, and neurasthenic subjects, and in those who suffer from constitutional affections, such as rheumatism, gout, or syphilis. Mal- aria is frequently associated with the development of neuralgia. Irritation of peripheral nerves may be a cause of reflex neuralgia. It may be excited by some source of local irritation: a carious tooth will often give rise to severe neuralgia, which will manifest itself at a point distant from the source of irritation ; stone in the kidney may give rise to neuralgia of the testicle. The pain in neuralgia may follow accurately the course of dis- tribution of a nerve, or it may be experienced over a considerable amount of surface, and is almost always unilateral. Pathology.—In many cases of neuralgia no nerve-lesion can be discov- ered, while in others an obliterating arteritis or senile sclerosis has been demonstrated as the pathological lesion. Lesions of the sensory cells of the posterior roots of the spinal cord or of the spinal ganglia have been sug- gested as causes of some of the obscure cases of neuralgia. Diagnosis.—Neuralgic pain may be diagnosed from inflammatory pain by the absence of fever and by the fact that the former is relieved by press- ure, while the latter is aggravated by it. Neuralgia of joints is followed by no structural changes in the parts, which always occur in inflammatory affections. Epileptiform Neuralgia.—This variety of neuralgia usually attacks the face, and may occur in any of the branches of the fifth pair of nerves, is accompanied by intense pain, and in some cases by muscular spasm. The attacks are intermittent, and the paroxysms of pain may last from a few seconds to a minute. The mucous membrane of the lips, gums, and nostrils