495 FRACTURES OF THE TIBIA. Fig. 421. Fractures of the Tibia.—These include separation of the upper or lower epiphysis and fractures involving any portion of the shaft of the bone. (Fig. 421.) Fractures of the head of the tibia may involve the knee joint, those of the lower portion may involve the ankle-joint, and both are produced by force directly applied, or by indirect force, the violence being transmitted through the foot. Symptoms.—In fractures of the shaft of the tibia alone there is usually very little displace- ment, the fibula acting as a splint to prevent shortening, but some little displacement may often be discovered by passing the finger along the spine of the bone. Crepitus can usually be elicited by grasping the tibia above and below the seat of fracture and making motion. Frac- tures of the upper portion of the bone which in- volve the knee-joint are followed by effusion into the joint. In epiphyseal separation of the lower end of the tibia, an important diagnostic sign is that the internal malleolus preserves its natural relation to the foot, but not to the leg. Treatment.—Fractures of the shaft of the tibia may be treated by the use of the fracture- box, as described in the treatment of fractures of both bones of the leg, or by the application of a plaster of Paris dressing. The results following the treatment of this fracture are usually very satisfactory, as little shortening occurs, from the fact that the fibula pre- vents overlapping of the bone. Where the fracture involves the ankle- joint or the knee-joint, great care should be taken to reduce the fragments as completely as possible and to secure fixation of the parts above and below the seat of fracture. In such cases a certain amount of ankylosis of the ankle- or knee-joint may result, and after three or four weeks passive motion should be instituted to preserve mobility of the joint. Ambulant Treatment of Fractures of the Bones of the Leg. —This method of treatment has recently been recommended and practised with good results. In employing this method, the leg having first been thor- oughly washed with soap and water, extension should be made to reduce the deformity, and the foot placed at a right angle to the leg ; a flannel bandage should next be applied from the toes to a short distance above the knee. Cotton wadding should be freely applied around the foot and the malleoli, and a plaster of Paris bandage carried from the base of the toes to a point a short distance above the knee-joint, being made especially firm just below the knee and at the sole of the foot and the ankle. The sole should also be strengthened by a number of longitudinal layers of the bandage, extension being kept up upon the leg until the plaster of Paris bandage has completely set. The patient is permitted to get up as soon as the plaster is firm, and Fractures of the shaft and lower end of the tibia.