SYPHILIS OF THE BREAST. 902 tion of granulation-tissue and hard masses, or it may form cold abscesses, and sinuses frequently remain when the abscesses are allowed to break. In the nodular form the breast appears occupied by a tumor under normal skin, the gland not being adherent to the chest-wall, and the nipple not retracted. The surface of the breast is apt to be nodular. The glands in the axilla are seldom involved when the disease begins in the breast, but, as Konig has remarked, the great majority of the cases begin in the glands of the axilla and involve the breast secondarily. If the disease is seen in this stage before the sinuses form, the resemblance to a tumor is very close. The progress of the disease is very slow, and like that of tuberculosis of the soft parts elsewhere. The general health is not seriously affected, and the patient may have no trace of disease elsewhere, even when the mamma is reduced to a mass of indurated tuberculous tissue containing many small abscesses. In the great majority of cases, however, there are tuberculous lesions in other parts. The diagnosis of tuberculosis of the breast is easy if sinuses exist, but otherwise it may be impossible to distinguish between the nodular form and a malignant tumor, or between a cold abscess and a cyst. The presence of tuberculosis elsewhere will give a clue. Treatment.—The best treatment is thorough removal of the diseased tissue, amputation being done, and the glands in the axilla removed also if they are involved. In the majority of cases the patient ultimately succumbs to pulmonary tuberculosis. Syphilis of the Breast.—Syphilis of the breast appears quite often in the primary form, infection taking place from nursing. Various second- ary lesions of the skin appear about the breast as elsewhere. In the late stages gumma is found, and sometimes produces extensive destruction of the gland-tissue. Gumma may form in the gland itself, in the subcutaneous tissue—involving the gland secondarily by ulceration, or in the retromam- mary tissue. In some cases the condition resembles a malignant tumor, hard or soft swellings being present, covered by healthy skin; but this error is rarely made, for, as a rule, a gumma spreads rapidly and soon ulcerates, producing the characteristic excavated ulcer with a sloughing centre and ragged undermined edges, more or less circular in shape. In doubtful cases a short treatment by antisypbilitics should settle the diag- nosis. The treatment is the usual "mixed treatment" internally, aided by clearing out the sloughs and dressing the cavities with iodoform. The prognosis is excellent, the disease generally being quickly brought under control. Mastodynia.—Mastodynia, or neuralgia of the breast, is an obstinate affection which is not uncommon, but is poorly understood. Neuralgic pains in the breast may arise from a great variety of causes, like neuralgia in gen- eral, but the form to which the name mastodynia has been given is usually found associated with a single tender spot in the breast. Not infrequently a small fibrous nodule can be found at this spot. As a rule, the symptoms are somewhat hysterical. The treatment, therefore, should be constitutional, including tonics, change of air, and an endeavor to distract the attention of the patient from the painful spot. Severe counter-irritation with the cautery will occasionally produce a good result. The application of a bel-