230 BULLET WOUNDS. Bullet Wounds.—These wounds are inflicted by pistol-balls or by rifle- balls. Wounds from pistol-balls are most commonly seen in civil practice, and are inflicted with balls varying from twenty grains in weight to two hundred and forty grains. The size of the ball is usually designated ac- cording to the decimal part of an inch which makes its diameter: thus, a thirty-two-calibre ball is .32 of an inch in diameter. Bullet wounds are rarely seen in civil practice, and formerly were in- flicted by round or conoidal balls varying from .50 to .71 of an inch in diameter. The modern rifle employed in warfare carries a slender cylindro- ogival bullet about .30 of an inch in diameter, made of lead and antimony, with a covering of steel, copper, or nickel. The modern bullet has much greater velocity than the leaden bullet formerly used, and does not change its shape so readily. It also has greater penetrating power : the same ball may penetrate the bodies of a number of men, and is apt to pass through resisting tissues, like bone, rather than to comminute them, as was the case with the conoidal leaden ball; and it is more likely to divide blood-vessels, nerves, and tendons. Primary hemorrhage is therefore likely to be more common and more fatal in wounds produced by the modern bullet than in those resulting from the old round or conoidal leaden bullet. According to Connor, the modern rifle-ball in the early and late portions of its flight—that is, within three hundred to five hundred yards and beyond eighteen hundred or two thousand yards—is more destructive than the rifle- balls previously used, but in the intermediate distance the damage done is less, which is explained by the lateral swing of the ball before its axial ro- tation is thoroughly established and the swing which again occurs after its velocity becomes diminished. The great destruction produced at short range constitutes a zone of explosi ve action, the middle region is the zone of pene- tration, and beyond this part, where the velocity of the missile is diminished, is the zone of contusion. The most marked explosive action of the modern rifle ball is seen in tissues rich in fluid contained in comparatively unyield- ing walls, where hydrodynamic pressure may be strongly exerted, as seen in wounds of the brain, viscera of the abdomen, and the hollow viscera filled with fluid or semi-fluid contents. In wounds from rifle-balls, as in those from small shot, the range at which the injury is inflicted is an important factor in determining the gravity of the wound, as is also the location of the injury. A ball wound of muscles of the thigh or the arm, if no important vessels or nerves are injured and the wound is not infected, is usually not a serious injury, while one of the brain, or of the pleural cavity or the abdomen, or of a large joint, may be most serious in its consecpiences. A ball which enters the tissues may itself be infected, or may carry infection into the tissues from the skin or clothing. It may also, froni its being in close relation to important structures, cause constant irritation until its removal is accomplished. On the other hand, as is also the case with small shot, the ball may become encysted and cause no trouble. From the fact that a ball embedded in the tissues may produce irritation or by subsequent change of position may cause trouble, it is con- sidered wise, when it is possible, to locate and remove it. When a ball strikes a bone it may perforate it or may cause Assuring or