FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 480 This deformity is clue to the action of the external rotator muscles, to the absence of resistance in the ligamentum teres, and to the action of gravity, as the centre of gravity of the leg and thigh lies outside of the centre of figure of the limb. Eversion of the foot may not be present in cases of impacted fracture of the neck of the femur. Crepitus may be elicited in the majority of cases of unimpacted fracture, by making extension upon the leg, flexing the thigh at right angles with the pelvis, and rotating the limb. If other symptoms of fracture of the femur are present, it is not advisable to make forcible prolonged efforts to obtain crepitus, as by so doing the perios- teum may be torn, or the impacted fracture may be liberated and greater deformity result. Allis has called attention to a sign of fracture of the neck of the femur which consists in the existence of a relaxed condition of the fascia lata between the crest of the ilium and the trochanter major on the injured side, due to the loss of resistance which is normally furnished by the unbroken neck of the bone. This is a valuable diagnostic sign in this fracture. Prognosis.—In cases of intracapsular fracture, as they usually occur in aged persons, the prognosis is generally grave, since bony union practically never occurs, so that the functional result following the fracture is always imperfect. Many patients suffering from this fracture die from exhaustion following the confinement to bed and the occurrence of bed-sores. The causes of non-union in intracapsular fractures of the femur are probably deficient vascularity, the presence of synovial fluid in contact with the re- parative material, and the imperfect coaptation of the fragments. The most satisfactory results occur in those cases in which the line of fracture not only involves the neck of the bone, but extends to the bone outside of the neck. In these cases there is enough reparative material deposited outside of the capsule to give a certain amount of fixation. There are, however, occasion- ally seen cases of intracapsular fractures of the femur in which patients recover with fairly useful limbs in spite of considerable shortening. Treatment.—As it is impossible in any case of fracture of the neck of the femur to say that the fracture is entirely within the capsule, it is wise to treat the patient as though there were a prospect of bony union. As these fractures occur in patients well advanced in years, and as such cases frecpiently do not bear the application of retentive apparatus well, the surgeon has often to consider the patient's constitutional condition more than the local injury, and has practically to disregard the treatment of the fracture and get the patient up and about as a means of improving his gen- eral condition. We have seen very excellent results in cases of fracture of the neck of the femur in which the patient was allowed to remain in bed, changing the position as often as was desired, for three or four weeks, no retentive dressings being applied. The dressing which we would recommend in cases of fracture of the neck of the femur is an extension apparatus, which is made by taking a strip of adhesive plaster two and a half inches in width and long enough to extend from the knee-joint down the leg to two or three inches below the heel, forming a loop ; it is then carried to the other side of the limb and extends as high as the knee-joint. Some surgeons prefer to carry the ex-