842 TREATMENT OF MASTOID DISEASE. any age. The involvement of the mastoid usually develops suddenly after exposure to cold or the introduction of cold water into the ear. The devel- opment of inflammation of the mastoid is evidenced by the occurrence of throbbing and boring pain, and of tenderness upon deep pressure over the mastoid process. At the same time the discharge from the ear diminishes or ceases, and more or less marked febrile symptoms develop. Facial pa- ralysis caused by the pressure of the swollen mucous membrane or of pus upon the facial nerve is not an uncommon symptom. The purulent collec- tion resulting from inflammation of the mastoid cells may be confined for a time in these cells, but soon perforates the bony walls, and may enter the cranial cavity, giving rise to meningitis or a cerebral abscess, or there may develop sinus-thrombosis, or the collection may escape by perforating the external surface of the mastoid, or may find its exit by the digastric fossa, causing a swelling behind the ear or beneath the origin of the sterno-cleido- niastoid, limiting the movements of the lower jaw. If not relieved by rup- ture externally, the condition is a most serious and fatal one unless free drain- age is effected by surgical aid. The swelling of the mastoid tissue, with an abscess under the periosteum, forces the auricle outward and forward, causing the appearance well shown in Fig. 729. Chronic inflammation of the mastoid may result in a sclerosis or thickening of the bone, with disap- pearance of the cells—a condition sometimes accompanied with much neuralgic pain, which can be relieved by chiselling an opening into the thickened bone. Treatment.—As soon as it is evi- dent that inflammation of the mastoid is present, a free incision should be made through the skin and periosteum, a quarter of an inch behind the auricle, extending the whole length of the mastoid process, and the auricle and skin should be drawn forward. If a sinus in the bone is exposed, this should be enlarged by cutting away its walls freely with a gouge, so as to expose the mastoid cells. If no sinus is present, the bone should be perforated with a small trephine or gouge at a point near the posterior and upper wall of the external auditory canal, and the wound should be carefully enlarged until the mastoid cells have been freely opened, care being taken to avoid injury of the lateral sinus, which is in close relation to the mastoid antrum at this point. In long and narrow skulls the sinus is not likely to be encountered (Korner), but in short, broad skidls and in children it lies more superficially. When the cells have been freely exposed, pus and necrosed tissue should be carefully removed with a curette. If the lateral sinus is injured, free venous bleeding occurs, which may be controlled by packing the wound with iodoform gauze. The cavity Fig. 729. Deformity from mastoid abscess.