INFLAMMATION OF THE PERITONEUM. 925 is able to resist bacteria in pure culture and even in considerable quantity, for it has been shown by experiments that in addition to the bacteria it is necessary that some serum, or blood, or a small quantity of sloughing mate- rial in which the germs can grow, should be present in order to excite peri- tonitis. The presence of foreign bodies also, even if they are in themselves harmless, introduced at the same time as the bacteria, enables the latter to set up peritonitis. If the circulation of the peritoneum is impaired, either in a limited portion by a contusion or in the entire cavity by heart disease or nephritis, for example, the growth of bacteria and consequent peritonitis are favored. The power of the bacteria to excite inflammation appears to reside only in their chemical products or toxines, and it is necessary for the germs to have a growing place where they can produce these toxines before they can excite inflammation. When peritonitis is not set up, the noxious materials are absorbed or encapsulated. The practical conclusions from these facts are important and obvious. Not only must the surgeon's hands, instruments, etc., be sterilized, if he is to operate within the peritoneal cavity without exciting inflammation, but he must be careful to leave no foreign bodies or sloughing tissue in the cavity, and to remove from it all blood and serum, or to provide drainage for the latter. The peritoneum must be protected from strong chemicals and from drying by exposure to the air, for these lower its vitality and impair its resistance to the bacteria. Pathology.—The first sign of inflammation of the peritoneum is con- gestion, then lymph is thrown out, the endothelial cells are detached, and the membrane loses its lustre. The endothelia multiply, the fixed cells in the connective-tissue layers also increase, and both assist in providing the wandering cells which penetrate the layers of lymph and form pus when the inflammation is acute. In cases of severe infection serum is thrown out, becoming cloudy as the pus-cells appear. This exudate has a fecal odor if there is a perforation of the bowel, and occasionally even when no perfo- ration exists. If the process does not go so far as to produce pus, the lymph thrown out glues together the serous surfaces which are in contact, forming adhesions (adhesive peritonitis). The adhesions disappear when the inflam- mation ends in resolution, or they become organized into strong connective- tissue layers and bands. If pus is produced (suppurative peritonitis), the adhesions formed at the edges of the inflammatory area may completely shut it in and produce local peritonitis or abscess. Or the adhesions may gradually give way as the inflammation intensifies behind them, and a pro- gressive suppurative peritonitis results. In other cases the infection practi- cally begins simultaneously in all parts of the cavity and a general suppu- rative peritonitis follows, but even here many adhesions are present which divide the cavity into numerous spaces, which are not, however, completely shut off from each other. Intraperitoneal abscesses may form anywhere in the abdomen as the result of local suppurative peritonitis, and may penetrate the abdominal wall or any of the hollow organs, burrow through the perito- neum and discharge in the groin, or perforate the diaphragm and flood the pleura, or even reach the lung and thus be evacuated. When pus is in the general cavity it is most evident in Douglas's cul-de-sac, which can be felt by rectal or vaginal examination to be distended.