625 TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE. posed of equal parts of ungt. iodi, ungt. belladonna?, and ungt. hydrargyri, combined with fixation of the joint by splints or plaster of Paris, will ulti- mately effect a cure. In other cases, in which the effusion is not large and the swelling de- pends upon the hypertrophy of the synovial fringes, the results of counter- irritation and fixation are not so satisfactory; here pressure, applied by a bandage or by strapping, may promote the absorption of the inflammatory material. When in spite of all these forms of treatment the condition is not improved, it is justifiable to aspirate the joint and irrigate it with a five per cent, carbolic solution, or to open it, the strictest aseptic details being observed, and trim away the hypertrophied synovial fringes. The wound should afterwards be closed, and the joint immobilized by a plaster of Paris dressing. After the wound is solidly healed, massage and passive motion should be employed to bring about restoration of function. Tuberculous Arthritis of the Knee.—This disease is most fre- quently met with in childhood, but is often seen in young adults, and in point of frequency is next to hip-disease. The disease is usually osteal in origin, the articular surface of the femur being much more frequently in- volved than the tibia. It is extremely rare for the disease to originate in the patella. In adults the synovial membrane of the joint may first be involved, and the bone, ligaments, and periarticular structures involved sec- ondarily. The changes which occur in the tissues are similar to those which have been already described as typical of tubercular arthritis. Symptoms.—The patient complains of paiu in using the limb, favors it in walking, and walks with a limp, bearing the weight upon the toes and the ball of the foot. Upon examination there may be observed some heat in the joint, and reflex muscular spasm may be noticed upon motions of the joint; stiffness may be present. Later there is slight flexion, with change in the shape of the joint, which becomes globular, the change being more marked by reason of the atrophy of the mus- j, eles above and below the joint. As the disease advances the limb becomes more flexed, and j the tibia is drawn backward, producing a I subluxation. (Fig. 550. ) The synovial mem- J brane and the cartilages may be broken down ; / the tubercular masses may undergo caseation and form abscesses, which perforate the cap- ^ sule and escape into the periarticular struc ^^HHm tures, and finally open upon the skin in the region of the joint. In other cases no abscesses form, but disorganization of the joint, with ^IAlH deformity, occurs, which inaj be followed bj BHfiv ankylosis. Diagnosis.—Tuberculous arthritis of the knee-joint may be confounded with acute ar- ..... . ,, -. i-i i j j Tuberculous arthritis of the knee. thritis ot the knee; the latter comes on soon after exposure to cold or after an injury, and runs a rapid course. Cellulitis of this region develops rapidly, and is usually phlegmonous. Rheumatic 40