TUBERCULOUS INOCULATION. 57 a typical parasite. It can be cultivated in solidified blood-serum, or in a mixture of glycerin and gelatin, at a temperature of 98° F. (37° C), form- ing white or gray opaque colonies, looking like thick, round, wrinkled crusts on the surface, not liquefying the serum. It can be inoculated in the animals usually employed, but some are very resistant, as, for instance, the goat. No spores have yet been demonstrated. This bacillus can grow either with or without oxygen. It is difficult to demonstrate, but stains well with the Ziehl carbolic-fuchsin solution or by Gram's method. The tubercle bacillus is very sensitive to changes in temperature (even 108° F. (42° 0.) arresting its growth), and it can be killed by any of the ordinary germicides, and even by direct sunlight. The usual seat of its inoculation in man is the respiratory or intestinal mucous membrane, although it may invade the skin if there is a wound or an ulcer, and it may also begin its attack in the genito-urinary organs. A period of incubation of three weeks is said to intervene after inoculation of the skin before any lesion is seen. Wherever its point of entrance, its tendency is to invade the lymphatic vessels and glands and from them spread to the rest of the body. It finds its way into the general circulation, and if large numbers enter the blood it may make a simultaneous attack upon many organs in the form known as acute miliary tuberculosis. If the bacilli in the blood are not numerous, on the other hand, they may die out. Any organ may be infected, especially if injury or other cause produce a dis- turbance of the local circulation, and so form a point of lessened resistance. The principal parts liable to tuberculosis which are of surgical interest are the superficial mucous membranes (mouth, pharynx, nose, conjunctiva), the skin, the bones and joints, the lymphatic glands, the peritoneum, the kidneys, bladder, urethra, testicles and prostate, and the female genitals. External Infection—Tuberculous Ulcer.—The lesion will vary with the manner of its origin, whether it is caused by inoculation from the sur- face or from within through the blood or lymphatic vessels. In the former case an external wound or abrasion of some degree appears to be necessary, and such a wound forms an ulcer; or, if the inoculation be at the bottom of a puncture, it produces a nodule which breaks down into an abscess and results in an ulcer by sloughing of the skin covering it. Inoculation of the skin may take place in wounds made by broken vessels used by phthisical patients for expectoration, by dressing wounds with handkerchiefs con- taining their sputa, or by direct infection of wounds from the mouth. Whether in skin or in mucous membrane, the ulcer is easily distinguished. The base is covered with a white, thin slough or with pale, small or exu- berant, and flaccid granulations. The edges are irregular as if worm-eaten, undermined, bluish pink in color, and usually surrounded by a faint in- flammatory areola. The discharge is serous, with a few pus-cells. In the mucous membranes the color of the base is apt to be rather yellow than white. There is never any trace of induration, although there may be a soft thickening about the ulcer. The microscopic examination of such a lesion discloses a general round-cell infiltration with few typical tubercles or giant-cells, ulceration progressing too rapidly to allow of these charac- teristic formations.