SYMPTOMS OF CARCINOMA. 124 Symptoms.—The most evident symptom, of carcinoma is generally the appearance of a tumor, although it may be very small or not detected, on account of its concealed situation. Pain is present in a certain number of cases, but only, as a rule, when the nerves are directly pressed upon or when the tumor has attained a very considerable size or is growing so rapidly that the parts about it are subject to great pressure. In a very large number of cases of cancer there is no pain, and this fact must be em- phasized, because too much reliance has been placed on the existence of pain in making the diagnosis. When the tumor has reached a certain size ulcer- ation usually sets in, and severe hemorrhages may follow. A hemorrhage which occurs directly from the tumor is exceedingly difficult to control un- less it yields to pressure, as no ligature will hold in the soft and friable tissue. The nearest lymphatic glands will usually be enlarged, but the time of the beginning and the extent of this enlargement vary greatly in the different varieties of tumors and also in individual cases of the same tumor. The extension of the tumor into the surrounding parts is shown by the adhesion of the skin over its surface or by the fixation of the tumor to the deeper parts, both being due to the direct connection between the stroma and the fibrous tissue about it. In the later stages of malignant disease a condition of cachexia or ex- haustion develops, a large part of which is caused by the actual pain of the tumor and the mental anxiety excited by its presence, or by its interference with the functions of some of the important organs. The loss of strength is often dependent upon a large secondary mass in the liver or lung, the pres- ence of which can only be guessed at, as it produces no symptoms except those of slight interference with the functions of the organ. Such secondary tumors, and occasionally the primary growth, interfere with the nutrition of the patient sufficiently to account for the anaemia which is so marked. The yellowish tinge of the skin is frequently due to the presence of a second- ary tumor in the liver. It was once supposed that the natural chemical products of these tumors produced a sort of toxaemia, but this view is now held by few, although some support has recently been given to the theory by the discovery that the haemoglobin of the blood is actually diminished in quantity, even when the tumor is small and the patient is not aware of its existence. It has also been found that when the tumor has been removed and two or three years have passed without recurrence, the proportion of haemoglobin in the blood still remains below the normal. Prognosis.—The termination of carcinoma is inevitably death, and this may be expected after one, two, or three years, unless life be prolonged by operation. The ultimate results of these operations vary with the region involved, being best in epithelioma of the skin and of the lips, of which one can hope to cure forty or fifty per cent. ; next in cancer of the breast and of the rectum, in which as high as twenty-five per cent, of cures can be ob- tained in ordinary hospital cases. Operations upon the uterus also give very good results, from twenty-five to fifty per cent, of cures being claimed by some authorities. The results are especially bad in the internal organs, as in the stomach or intestines, because of the difficulty of making an early diagnosis ; and also in the tongue, because of the unusually rapid diffusion