408 SPINAL ACCESSOEY NERVE. Fig. 309. under the last molar tooth. Kesection of this nerve is sometimes resorted to in cases of neuralgia or malignant disease of the tongue for the relief of pain. The Facial Nerve.—This nerve may be exposed at its point of exit from the stylo mastoid foramen by an incision behind the ear carried from the level of the external auditory meatus downward and forward to the angle of the jaw. After dividing the skin and fascia the aponeurosis of the sterno-mastoid is exposed and retracted ; the posterior border of the parotid gland is also exposed, and should be drawn forward. The prevertebral muscles and their fascia are next exposed, and the nerve lies in front of these. It should be lifted upon an aneurismal needle, cleared of surround- ing tissues, and resected. To locate the nerve accurately it may sometimes be necessary to use a fine-pointed electrode, with a sponge electrode upon the cheek. The Spinal Accessory Nerve.—This nerve is exposed by an incision the centre of which is opposite the hyoid bone, and which is made parallel to the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. This muscle should be strongly retracted, when the nerve will be found crossing the carotid artery and internal jugular vein, penetrating the muscle from its under surface. (Fig. 309.) The nerve when exposed is lifted upon an aneurismal needle and resected. Resection of this nerve is frequently resorted to in cases of spasmodic wry-neck. The Cervical Plexus.—The nerves of the cervical plexus may be exposed by an incision parallel with the posterior bor- der of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle near its middle. The Brachial Plexus.—The nerves of this plexus may be exposed in the neck or in the axilla. The cords of the brachial plexus may be exposed in the neck by an incision parallel with and just above the clavicle, similar to that for ligation of the subclavian artery. To expose the cords of the plexus in the axilla an incision is made similar to that employed in ligation of the brachial artery in the axilla. The Median Nerve.—This nerve is exposed in the upper arm by an incision two inches in length parallel to the inner border of the biceps mus- cle near its middle ; the nerve crosses in front of the artery from without inward. The median nerve may also be exposed in the bend of the elbow, or by an incision two inches in length at the inner side of the palmaris longus tendon just above the wrist. The Musculo-Spiral Nerve.—This nerve may be exposed at the mid- dle or lower third of the arm. It is reached with the greatest ease in the latter situation by an incision two inches in length on a line drawn from the external condyle to the insertion of the deltoid muscle. After dividing the skin and fascia the nerve can be felt with the finger upon the humerus in the groove between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles. Exposure of spinal accessory nerve. (Agnew.;