778 CHAPTER XXVIL SURGERY OF THE NECK. Injuries.—A simple contusion of the neck may be very serious, for a severe blow may compress some of the important nerves against the spinal column and produce a sudden stoppage of the heart and death without any visible injury. Hsematoma of the sterno-mastoid muscle is frequently seen in the new-born infant, forming a fusiform swelling and causing torticollis. It usually resolves, but a permanent contraction and deformity may result. The hyoid bone may be fractured by a blow or by au attempt at strangu- lation. Great pain on swallowing and crepitus may be present in such cases. Union does not take place for six or eight weeks, and the suffering may be considerable. Twists or sprains of the neck cause pain and stiffness, which may be so severe as to resemble dislocation or fracture, but the symp- toms of the latter are marked from the beginning, while in the case of a sprain the symptoms are worse after a few hours than at first. Incised wounds of the neck are not common, except the extensive in- juries caused by attempts at suicide by cutting the throat, in which cases the wound is usually upon the left side of the neck, the knife being held in the right hand. Cut-throat wounds are seldom fatal, for the great vessels generally escape division owing to their deep situation in the angle between the trachea and the spine, but the hemorrhage from the superficial veins is very serious, and the patients present a horrible appearance from the simul- taneous opening of the air-passages. The wounds are generally in the neigh- borhood of the hyoid bone, and instances have been known in which the latter has been separated from the base of the tongue, the pharynx being opened so that three or four fingers could be passed in. The treatment in these cases consists in the arrest of hemorrhage, the thorough cleansing of the parts, the insertion of a tracheotomy tube if the trachea has been opened, and the closing of the wound by a few stitches. If the pharynx has been opened it may be sutured, but the external wound should be left open in such cases to allow perfectly free drainage in case of leaking fi'om the deeper wound. The large nerves are injured even less frequently than the main vessels. The patients are often insane and need watching afterwards. Wounds of the veins in the neck are especially liable to the complication of aspiration of air, producing sudden death. Stab wounds of the neck may be as dangerous as the wide cut-throat wounds, for single nerves may be divided or small punctures made in the vessels, resulting in the production of arterio-venous aneurisms. The pneu- mogastric has been divided in these wounds, and also the thoracic duct.