FRACTURE OF THE OLECRANON PROCESS. 471 Prognosis.—In fractures of the olecranon process fibrous union usually is obtained. Fibrous union in these cases probably results from the diffi- culty in bringing about perfect apposition of the fragments and from the presence of synovial fluid in the fissure between them. We had recently under our care an oblique fracture of the upper portion of the ulna which separated the olecranon process, and in this case non-union resulted. Upon exposing the parts by incision the synovial fluid escaped from the fissure in the bone, and the surfaces were lined with a smooth membrane resembling synovial membrane. In this case firm bony union was obtained by freshen- ing the surfaces and introducing heavy wire sutures. Treatment.—In the treatment of this fracture the arm should be ex- tended and a primary roller applied from the tips of the fingers to a point just below the elbow. A well-padded straight or obtuse-angled splint ( Fig. 390), extending from the shoulder to the tips of the M FlG- 3y0- fingers, should be applied upon the anterior surface of the arm and forearm; a com- press of lint should next be placed just above the upper fragment and held in place by one or two strips of adhesive plaster, applied obliquely (Fig. 391) from above downward, and fastened to the splint, and the splint should be secured by a bandage. (Fig. 392.) This dressing should be changed at intervals of two or three days, and the splint should not be permanently discarded until about six weeks after the injury. This fracture may also be treated by means of a plaster of Paris bandage. Pas- sive motion should not be practised until two or three weeks have elapsed. Fig. 391. Obtuse-angled splint. Application of splint and compress in fracture of the olecranon process. In making passive motion the fragments should be held firmly with the fingers while pronation and supination of the forearm and slight extension and flexion are practised. As the union in this fracture is usually fibrous, it is important that as close apposition as possible of the fragments be obtained, as a long fibrous union interferes very markedly with exten- sion of the forearm. In spite of fibrous union in cases of fractures of the