EPITHELIOMA OF CICATRICES. 239 may extend to the adjacent skin. Keloid may be the seat of neuralgic pain, but is usually not painful, and is more apt to be accompanied by intense itching; it may ulcerate and give rise to bleeding. Scars in certain indi- viduals are especially apt to develop keloid. We have seen keloid develop in such cases after small incised wounds and after the bites of insects. It is said to be more common iu persons of a tuberculous diathesis. Keloid is much more common in negroes than in whites. (See also under Tumors.) Treatment.—Excision of keloid, although it would seem the most nat- ural method of dealing with the growth, has proved unsatisfactory, as the disease usually returns in the new cicatrix, and the resulting growth is often larger than the original one. When it is possible to dissect out a mass of keloid and approximate the edges of healthy skin, the resulting deformity may be less marked, even if the disease returns in the new cicatrix. As a rule, however, it is better to apply some treatment which diminishes the blood supply of the growth, and this may be accomplished by the use of pressure applied by compresses and straps, or by elastic pressure. Warren recommends the following application to be painted upou the surface of the growth: plumbi acetatis, gi; collodion, ^v. This treatment we have em- ployed in keloids of recent development with apparently good results. Scarification in many cases is followed by improvement, and electrolysis has recently been employed with success. Although the growth is unsightly, and when recent may cause pain and itching, the fact should not be lost sight of that in time there is a tendency to atrophy, and that it may become much less prominent. In tuberculous subjects who present keloid growths the use of iodide of iron and cod-liver oil may be followed by benefit. Warty Ulcer, or Epithelioma, of Ci- catrices.—This is a form of ulceration, very per- sistent in its character, which is occasionally seen in old cicatrices of burns or gunshot wounds. The appearance of epitheli- omatous degeneration of the cicatrix of a burn of the knee in a negro woman, associated with contraction of the knee of thirty years' duration, is well shown in Fig. 164. Some of these ulcers are non-malignant, being of a fibrocellular character, while others present the structure of true epithelioma; the ulcer is cov- ered with small granulations having a papillary appearance like condylo- Warty ulcer, or epithelioma, following burn of the knee.