862 INDICATIONS FOR TRACHEOTOMY. Position of the Patient for Tracheotomy.—The most satisfactory position is that which brings the neck into the greatest prominence, and this can best be obtained by laying the patient upon his back on a firm table, and placing under the shoul- ders a round cushion, or an empty wine-bottle, or a roller-pin wrapped in a towel. (Fig. 744.) In cases of great emergency, where there is no time to place the patient in this position, we have found that the trachea can be rendered more su- perficial by allowing the head to drop over the edge of a table or the end of a lounge. The Use of an Anaesthetic in Tracheotomy.—As a rule, we think it is better not to admin- ister an anaesthetic in performing this operation, as little pain is experienced, in cases in which the dyspnoea is well marked, after the incision in the skin has been made. We object to the use of an anaesthetic from the fact that we have seen the dyspnoea, which was not urgent before the use of the anaesthetic, suddenly, under its employment, become alarming, or the breathing cease altogether, so that the trachea had to be opened before it was thoroughly exposed, which is a procedure always attended with risk. So strong is our conviction that the risks of the operation are much in- creased by the employment of an anaesthetic that of late years we have abandoned its use entirely. In adults we often employ a two per cent, solu- tion of cocaine hypodermically, but in children its use is not accompanied by good results, as their struggles are probably caused as much by restraint and the terror produced by the manipulations as by actual pain. Indications for Tracheotomy.—The prominent symptom calling for tracheotomy is obstructive dyspnoea, characterized by suppression of the voice, great difficulty, usually, in inspiration, lividity of the lips, depression of the suprasternal and supraclavicular spaces, sinking in of the lower part of the chest, inability to breathe in the recumbent posture, and great rest- lessness. The mistake should not be made of confounding labored breathing, which is always present in cases where there exists mechanical obstruction to the entrance of air into the lungs, with frequent breathing, which depends upon diminished air-capacity of the lungs. The trachea may be opened above the isthmus of the thyroid gland or below it, and these operations constitute respectively the high and the low operation. The high operation of tracheotomy is generally selected, because at this point the trachea is very superficial and is more easily exposed ; it should therefore be preferred in the case of young children, when the dyspnoea is urgent and time is an important element. The low operation is the one in which the trachea is opened below the isthmus of the thyroid gland. In this region the trachea is more difficult to expose, by reason Fig. 744. Position of patient for tracheotomy.