TRAUMATIC PERITONITIS. 926 In addition to these forms of inflammation, a septicemia of peritoneal origin may be caused by absorption of the septic products formed in the infected peritoneum. The latter may not react to the infection with the changes and symptoms of inflammation, and the clinical picture is merely that of a profound septicaemia, while the autopsy reveals only slight inflam- mation and but little exudate in the peritoneal cavity. A toxaemia is also caused by absorption of the intestinal contents stagnant by reason of intes- tinal paralysis. Symptoms.—The symptoms of peritonitis will vary according as the infection takes place from without or by the perforation of some organ, and these various conditions must therefore be studied separately. Traumatic Peritonitis.—An external wound of the peritoneum may be infected at once, or an originally clean wound may become infected, but in either case a strictly localized peritonitis or a local abscess is apt to be the result. The symptoms are a little tenderness in the neighborhood of the wound and some pain, which increase until the abscess bursts through the wound or is discharged by incision. Whenever there is an intraperitoneal abscess, how- ever, there is always danger of subsequent general infection from that source. Traumatic peritonitis may also be caused by wounds of the viscera, and its intensity will depend upon the viscera involved, the most virulent forms following injury to the stomach and intestine, on account of the bac- teria in their contents. When the first symptoms of such an injury have passed off and the patient has recovered from the shock, if any infectious material has escaped into the peritoneal cavity from the wounded organ, symptoms of inflammation set in, with abdominal pain, which may be so severe that it cannot be relieved even by large doses of morphine. There is vomiting, the abdomen becomes distended, tympanitic, and rigid, and the temperature rises, usually without a chill. These symptoms may in- crease, the tympanites growing worse, the vomiting becoming incessant, at first green and then fecal, constipation being absolute, and the patient becoming thoroughly exhausted by the pain and loss of nourishment. But the symptoms which begin so violently may diminish if the infection becomes localized, the tympanites growing less, the vomiting ceasing, and the pain and tenderness becoming limited to one point, where the abscess is forming. In other cases the patient may die within twenty-four hours of the acute septic poisoning from absorption of the infectious matter, no active inflam- mation of the peritoneum having had time to develop. In such a case the patient may present few symptoms—vomiting, pain, and tympanites being absent; but he gradually sinks into a low typhoid condition, with a Tow grade of fever. In still other cases the inflammation runs a chronic course, being partially localized, but spreading first in one direction and then in another, several abscesses forming in succession, so that the disease may last for many weeks, terminating in death or in recovery. The prognosis of traumatic peritonitis is very bad, almost the only chance of recovery being in immediate laparotomy. A traumatic peritonitis following laparotomy shows itself in very acute cases by an immediate rise of temperature and the development of tym- panites, with vomiting and constipation, and its course is usually rapidly