TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA. 1056 the acute stage. Balsam of copaiba, in from ten- to twenty-minim doses, in capsules, or in combination with an alkali, may be administered three times daily. It has a tendency at times to disorder the stomach, and its use may be followed by a copaiba rash on the skin. Sandal-wood oil is given in a similar manner and in the same dose. Oubebs, copaiba, or oil of sandal wood, in doses of from ten to twenty minims, may be administered in a capsule combined with salol five grains and pepsin two grains. The fol- lowing mixture is recommended by Keyes : Potassii citratis, ^ij-svi; bals. copaibae, ,^iij-3vi; ext. hyoscyami fl., 3ss-3ij ; syr. acacise, liss; aq. nienth. pip., q. s. ad ^iij. Sig.—A teaspoonful in water three times a day. When chordee is present, the patient should take a hot bath before re- tiring, and sleep on his side on a hard bed with light covering. Bromide of potassium is a useful agent, and monobromide of camphor and lupulin may be employed with advantage. Opium with camphor in the following suppository, to be used at bedtime, is most useful: Pulv. opii, gr. i; pulv. carnphorae, gr. iij ; ol. theobrom., q. s. When erection comes on, cold should be applied in some form. The patient should be warned against breaking the chordee, as this procedure is apt to result in traumatic stricture. Injections.—During the incipient and acute stages of the disease injec- tions are generally omitted, but if used should consist of mild antiseptic and sedative washes or irrigations by the method previously described, such as warm boric acid solution, gr. v to water fsi, bichloride of mercury solution 1 to 20,000, permanganate of potassium 1 to 2000, a solution of sulphocar- bolate of zinc gr. * to water f^i, or peroxide of hydrogen diluted one-half or one-fourth. In the later stage of the disease the treatment by injection becomes of great importance. The character of the discharge, which changes from a greenish yellow to a grayish white, must be watched, and furnishes the signal for treatment. Astringents are now of great value. Sulphate of zinc and sulphocarbolate of zinc (1 to 5 gr. to water acetate of zinc (2 to 12 gr. to water si), nitrate of silver 1 to 4000, and sulphate of copper (1 to 5 gr. to water 3*i), are the most generally applicable. The following formulae will be found useful: Ac. carbolici, zinci sulphocarbolat., aluminis, aagr. v ; glycerini, fsss ; aquae, q. s. ad f 3iv. Or zinc, sulph., gr. xv ; plumbi acetat., gr. xxx; tr. opii, f3ij ; aquae, q. s. ad f^vi. It is well to begin with the milder solutions, and if an injection causes pain it must be diluted. The patient should urinate before using it, so as to wash out the urethra and permit the full local action of the injection. The syringe should hold from two to three drachms, and the patient- should be instructed in the method of using it. Sitting on the edge of a chair, or standing with the feet separated, holding the syringe in the right hand, the nozzle should be gently introduced and the meatus compressed laterally with the fingers of the left hand, so as to prevent escape of the fluid. The con- tents should be gently thrown in until the urethra is distended ; the syringe is then withdrawn, and after one or two minutes the fluid is allowed to escape. The injections may be given three or four times daily. Treatment of Posterior Urethritis.—When there is present a high grade of posterior urethritis, as shown by frequent and imperative urina-