LAMINECTOMY. 896 symptoms, although immediately after the accident hemorrhage and oedema may cause symptoms resembling those of complete division of the cord, which may pass off leaving the limited paralysis. More frequently, how- ever, considerable portions of the cord are injured, and the symptoms are extensive and not well defined. Septic complications appear to be unusual, and meningitis produces death in only about one-quarter of the cases. The paralysis generally remains permanently. Treatment.—Successful surgical interference is as yet limited to the relief of compression, depressed bone being elevated, dislocations reduced, blood-clot evacuated from the substance of the cord or from the space be- tween it and the membranes, and tumors removed. It is difficult to explain why wounds of the cord should not heal by primary union as well as those of nervous tissue elsewhere, but experiments made in this direction have not met with much success. This does not apply, however, to the nerve- roots, which may be united like the peripheral nerves with good results. LAMINECTOMY. Laminectomy is the operation of opening the spinal canal by cutting away the vertebral arches. An H-incision is often used, flaps being turned upward and downward, including the skin, muscles, and spinous processes, the arches being divided in the same lines on each side. A better method is the formation of a lateral flap by an incision over the arches upon one side, the periosteum and muscles being reflected to the bases of the spinous processes, the latter then being divided with bone forceps or chisel and lifted up in the flap, the dissection of which is continued towards the other side until the arches are exposed from end to end. The latter are then cut away. After recovery a fibrous cicatricial membrane closes the gap in the spine as efficiently as the original bone. By this operation depressed bone may be elevated or cut away, an abscess or a hsematoma evacuated, tuber- culous foci curetted, and tumors of the cord or surrouuding parts extir- pated. In severe neuralgia of the spinal nerves, especially when associated with muscular spasm, laminectomy has been performed and the posterior roots of the nervres divided within the canal. The mortality of laminectomy is said to be less than twenty per cent., in spite of the serious conditions for which it is undertaken.