1030 PROLAPSE WITH INVAGINATION OF THE INTESTINE. is next reduced, an opium suppository is introduced into the rectum, and a pad is applied to the anal region and held in place by a T-bandage. The bowels should be moved by a saline laxative on the third day, and after this time daily evacuations encouraged, and the patient kept in bed on restricted diet until the ulcers have healed. The actual cautery may also be applied in the treatment of prolapse in children, a small cautery point being used and the lines of cauterization being more superficial. Clamp and Cautery.—This method of treatment may be employed in prolapse of the bowel, and seems to be especially useful in cases of per- sistent partial prolapse where there is marked induration of the prolapsed mass with difficulty in its reduction. In extensive prolapse care should be taken not to clamp the mass too near the sphincter, so as to avoid the danger of including the bowel or the peritoneum in the grasp of the clamp. The operation consists in grasping longitudinal sections of the mass at different points in the clamp, and applying the cautery iron thoroughly to the clamped portions. Excision.—Circular excision of the prolapsed mass has been employed with success in a number of cases of prolapse of the rectum. The operation should, however, be reserved for extensive and irreducible cases. In this operation, after removing the mass by a circular incision, the edges are secured by sutures without difficulty, as they are already in contact. Ex- cision of elliptical strips of mucous membrane from different portions of the mass has also been practised with good results. Prolapse with Invagination of the Intestine.—In this condition there is present in the rectum, or escapes from the anus, a portion of the upper intestine which has been invaginated. ~No true prolapse of the rectum occurs in these cases, for the bowel at the anus remains stationary and the intestine above is telescoped within it. The possibility of the existence of this condition should always be borne in mind in examining tumors which protrude fr om the anus. Symptoms.—The symptoms of this condition are the escape of blood and mucus from the anus preceding the appearance of the tumor, and the development of signs of obstruction of the bowels, with the attendant con- stitutional symptoms. The affection is a most serious one, and is always fatal unless the obstruction be removed by operative treatment or sloughing of the intussusceptum. Treatment.—The patient should be anaesthetized and attempts made to reduce the invaginated gut by manipulations or by injections. If it cannot be reduced, an artificial anus should be made in the left or right groin by inguinal colostomy, or resection and suture of the prolapsed mass should be undertaken. The method of Mikulicz may be employed, which consists in placing the patient in the lithotomy position, making a transverse incision through the anterior portion of the prolapse, dividing the serous surface of the intussuscipiens, and exposing the serous surface of the intussuscep- tum. The two serous membranes should be sutured together by fine silk sutures, which shut off all communication with the peritoneal cavity. The anterior portion of the intussusceptum is then cut through in advance of the line of sutures, and the two ends of the gut are approximated with silk