DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 585 Fig. 518. Fig. 519. the former method the patient is placed upon his back upon a firm mattress and anaesthetized; the surgeon then grasps the ankle of the injured limb with one hand and the front of the knee with the other; the leg is flexed on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis. Flexing the thigh in iliac dis- locations relaxes the ilio femoral ligament, and in ischiatic dislocations disengages the head of the femur from the obturator internus muscle. It is then adducted and carried to the sound side, ro- tated slightly outward, and finally, by external circumduction, is swept across the abdomen and brought down in a straight position beside its fellow. (Fig. 519.) Adduction brings the head of the bone close to the ar- ticular cavity, while exter- nal rotation and circumduc- tion shorten the outer branch of the ilio-femoral ligament and raise the head of the bone over the acetabulum. Under this manipulation the head of the bone usually slips into the acetabulum. Allis in the reduction of dorsal dislocations recom- mends that while the patient is supine the surgeon kneel beside him, and, in the case of the right hip, grasp the ankle with the right hand and place the bent elbow of the left arm beneath the knee. He then turns the bent leg outward by means of the ankle and lifts upward, and next turns the leg inward and brings the femur down in extension. Reduction by Extension and Counter-Extension.—Beduction by extension and counter-extension by the use of the pulley and extending bands was formerly frequently practised for the reduction of dislocations of the head of the femur. This method is not often practised at the present time, as by its use much greater violence is done to the parts, and on the whole it is not so satisfactory as the treatment by manipiilation. It may, however, be required in some cases of old dislocation of the femur. Dislocation of the Hip Downward and Forward (Thyroid). —In this dislocation the head of the bone, after escaping from the ace- tabulum, lodges over the thyroid foramen upon the obturator externus muscle. (Fig. 520.) It is produced by force acting upon the limb while it is in a state of abduction. Symptoms.—The limb is lengthened about an inch and a half, the heel is raised, and the foot may be slightly everted ; the hip is flattened, and the body inclined forward on the pelvis and towards the injured side. (Fig. 521.) The head of the bone may be felt below the horizontal ramus of the pubis. Deformity in ischiatic dislocation of the fe- mur. Reduction of backward dislocation of the femur. (Bryant.)