508 TREATMENT OF UNUNITED FRACTURE. Excision.—The most radical operation, and the one most likely to be followed by a satisfactory result in ununited fractures, is excision of the ends of the bone, with fixation of the fragments by metallic sutures, screws, metal plates, ivory pegs, or a bone ferrule. In performing this operation the ends of the bone are exposed by an incision, and a section is sawn off each end so as to get a good bone surface. In some cases of oblique fracture the ends may be sawn so as to make a mortise of the bone. The ends being drilled, they are fixed with heavy silver wire or kangaroo tendon sutures, the sutures including a portion or the whole thickness of the bone (Figs. 433 and 434), by silver plates secured by silver screws (Fig. 435), or by a screw (Fig. 436), or by a bone ferrule (Fig. 437) : the latter is the most difficult to apply. The wound is then closed, and the limb is put up in a plaster of Paris bandage. The Fragments secured with a Fragments secured Fragments fixed with a bone ferrule, silver splint and screws. with a screw. greatest care should be taken to keep the wound aseptic, for the success of the operation depends largely upon avoiding suppuration. The wires or plates, if suppuration does not occur, may remain permanently in the tissues. In cases of non-union of one of two parallel bones it may be necessary to resect a portion of the sound bone in order to coaptate satisfactorily the ends of the bone in which union has not occurred. In such cases bone-grafting— a piece of fresh bone from a recently killed animal being fastened by sutures or ivory pegs between the freshened ends of the bone, or the space between the freshened ends of the bone being filled in with bone chips—has been practised with success. These procedures, however, often fail, and a plastic operation is required. This consists in transplanting a portion of one bone into the other, or one bone may be sutured to the other, as has been done with success in cases where there was a marked loss of substance in the tibia, the fibula being divided and sutured to the tibia. The dressings should be retained for several months, and the patient restricted in the use of the part for some months afterwards.