600 ARTHRITIS. ment, acute synovitis runs on to suppuration, the joint should be opened by incisions and washed out with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, free drainage being secured by the introduction of drainage-tubes. Even if suppuration has occurred, if free drainage is secured before the surfaces of the cartilages have become ulcerated, recovery may take place with little loss of function in the joint. Chronic Synovitis.—This may result from acute synovitis, or may arise from trivial causes and occupy a considerable time in its development. In chronic synovitis there is usually more or less involvement of the other structures of the joint, giving rise to arthritis. The synovial membranes become cedematous and thickened, and may be thrown into folds or may be fastened together by adhesions from organization of the exudations between their surfaces. Fluid in variable quantity may exist in the joint, and patches of membrane undergo degeneration and softening, or may become studded with villous growths, or suppuration may eventually occur. Symptoms.—In chronic synovitis there is generally marked limitation in the motion of the joint; pain is usually absent unless pressure is made upon the joint or motion of the joint is attempted. The shape of the joint is changed, depending upon the amount of effusion and the thickening of the tissues. If the amount of effusion is large, the condition known as hydrops articuli is present. In dry cases motion of the joint will develop crepitation or crackling. Wasting of the muscles in the region of the joint from disuse is usually very marked. Treatment.—The treatment of chronic synovitis consists in fixation of the joint and the adoption of means which favor the absorption of the plas- tic exudates and fluid. The use of tincture of iodine or pressure over the joint is often followed by good results. The application which we have seen give the best results is one composed of—ungt. iodi, ,^ii; ungt. belladonna?, 3vi ; ungt. hydrargyri, sii. This should be spread upon lint and applied over the surface of the joint, which should be fixed by the application of a splint or a plaster of Paris dressing. After the swelling has subsided, passive motion and massage should be employed. In cases in which a large amount of effusion is present, aspiration of the joint may be of ser- vice. In long-standing cases aspiration and irrigation with a five per cent, solution of carbolic acid, of which from five to ten cubic centimetres are allowed to remain in the cavity, may be practised with good results. Many months of treatment are often required before the patient regains fair use of the joint. If abscesses form they should be opened and drained, and in cases of extensive disorganization of the articulation excision or amputation may ultimately be required. ARTHRITIS. This consists in an acute or a chronic inflammation involving the joint as a whole, which may arise from a traumatic synovitis or from the presence of pyogenic cocci, or may be due to infection from special organisms, such as the bacilli of tuberculosis, or the micro-organisms of gonorrhoea or typhoid fever, or may develop as a complication of rheumatism, gout, syphilis, or diseases of the nervous system.