384 LIGATION OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. Operation.—An incision from three to three and a half inches in length, parallel with the anterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, ending an inch above the clavicle, should be made. (Fig. 283, i.) The anterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoid being exposed, the middle cervical fascia is divided ; the carotid artery and the jugular vein are exposed and drawn inward. The gap between the longus colli and scalenus anticus muscles is next felt for, about an inch below the carotid tubercle ; the fascia covering- it is torn through and the muscles are separated, when the vertebral vein comes into view. This vein being held aside, the vertebral artery should then be exposed and the ligature passed around it. Ligation of the Inferior Thyroid Artery—This vessel is a branch of the thyroid axis, and reaches the thyroid body by passing beneath the sheath of the carotid artery and internal jugular vein. The incision for exposure of the inferior thyroid is the same as that for the vertebral artery. (Fig. 283, i.) The anterior edge of the sterno cleido mastoid muscle having been exposed, it is drawn outward ; the middle cervical fascia is next divided, and the carotid artery and internal jugular vein are drawn outward with a retractor. The head being slightly flexed, the surgeon feels for the carotid tubercle and then separates the cellular tissue with a director, when the artery should be found below the carotid tubercle. The needle should be passed between the artery and the vein. Ligation of the Internal Mammary Artery.—The internal mam- mary artery is a branch of the first part of the subclavian, which passes downward beneath the clavicle and descends along the inner surface of the anterior wall of the chest external to the pleura, accompanied by its veins, and rests upon the costal cartilages a little external to the margin of the sternum. The internal mammary artery may be ligated by making a vertical in- cision two and a half inches in length, commencing at the lower border of the clavicle, and carried parallel with and three lines external to the sternum. The skin and superficial fascia being divided, the fibres of the pectoralis major are exposed; these should be divided, as well as the external inter- costal aponeurosis and the muscular fibres of the internal intercostal muscle ; the fasciculi of the latter muscle should be raised and divided upon a direc- tor, when the vessel will be exposed. The internal mammary artery is not often ligated below the fourth intercostal space. Ligation of the Axillary Artery.—The axillary artery extends from the middle of the clavicle to the insertion of the teres major into the humerus ; the axillary vein lies upon the inner side and in front of the artery. The axillary artery may be ligated either in its upper portion just below the clavicle, or in its lower portion in the axilla. Ligation of the Axillary Artery below the Clavicle.—The arm being drawn off from the side, in order to render apparent the fissure be- tween the two portions of the pectoralis major muscle, an oblique incision is made over this depression, three inches in length, commencing half an inch from the sterno-clavicular articulation. (Fig. 283, e.) Having divided the skin and fascia, the intermuscular space which leads upward towards the clavicle should be opened and its sides separated with a director and the