511 COMPLICATIONS AFTER FRACTURE. of crutches ; we have seen a number of refractures of the femur produced in this manner. The repair of fracture of callus is usually very prompt, less time being required than in the case of primary fractures. Tumors of Callus.—New growths developing in the callus at the seat of fracture are rare, except in subjects who are suffering from cancer in other parts of the body ; we have seen a woman suffering from cancer of the breast, who sustained a fracture of the femur, develop a large carcinomatous mass in the callus at the seat of fracture. Cases of enchondroma and sar- coma have, however, been reported as developing in callus after fracture when there was no evidence of the disease in other parts of the body. Separations or injuries of the epiphyses in young subjects seem more likely to be followed by the development of sarcomatous growths than fractures. Complications after Fracture.—Rupture of an Artery.—This may result from stretching or tearing of the vessel or laceration of its coats by the fragments of boue. As the result of this accident a traumatic aneu- rism forms, which can be recognized by the swelling, change in the color of the limb, loss of pulsation in the injured artery, expansile pulsation and bruit, or thrill. It is wise, if the aneurism is not increasing in size, to post- pone its treatment until consolidation has occurred at the seat of fracture. Embolism and Thrombosis.—A thrombus may occur from injury to the veins, and an embolus may be detached and be swept into the heart or the pulmonary artery, causing a fatal termination. A thrombus may result from contusion or bruising of an artery at the seat of fracture and lead to gangrene. Fat embolism is a rare complication, which is considered in another part of this work. Delirium Tremens.—This is not an unusual complication of fractures in subjects addicted to the use of alcohol, and may develop soon after the occurrence of the injury or some weeks afterwards. Its development is usually preceded by agitation and insomnia. Gangrene.—This is an occasional complication after fracture, and occurs from injury of the soft parts at the time of fracture or subsequently from compression of important vessels by the fragments of bone. It may involve a portion of the limb only, or the whole limb up to the seat of fracture. Traumatic spreading gangrene is an occasional complication of compound fractures. Tetanus, septiacmia, and pywmia are complications of compound fractures which are rarely seen when aseptic methods of treatment have been care- fully practised. Paralysis.—This may occur as a direct result of injury to an important nerve at the time of fracture, or may develop later from the pressnre of callus upon a nerve. Wrist-drop is sometimes observed after fracture of the shaft of the humerus from injury of or pressure upon the ntusculo-spiral nerve, and foot-drop is sometimes observed after fracture of the fibula or the ex- ternal condyle of the femur, from the pressure of the callus upon the external popliteal nerve. Ankylosis.—Ankylosis of joints is a later complication of fractures, and is apt to occur after fracture in the vicinity of joints, or one in which the line of fracture extends into the joint, producing malposition of the