FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 697 sionally considerable depression of the inner table will be found associated with a simple fissure or a punctured fracture of the outer table. Injury to the inner table without fracture of the outer is a very rare occurrence. The fact that the inner table is frequently more extensively injured than the outer was formerly supposed to be due to a difference in their resisting power, and the inner table was called the vitrea, or glass like table. The external table is somewhat thicker than the inner, but one is not more brittle than the other, and the apparent difference between them is easily explained by certain mechanical principles : (1) When the skull is struck by a moderately sharp-pointed object with a violence just short of that necessary to perforate it, the inner table must suffer more than the outer, because the force of the blow tends to spread in a wedge-shaped direction on all sides as it enters the bone, just as a nail splinters a board on the farther and unsupported side when driven through it. (Fig. 640.) The outer table is held in place by the diploe and is per- forated, the inner table is not supported and yields, splintering instead of allowing its particles to be pushed aside laterally by the penetrating object. (2) If a stick be bent across the knee until it breaks, the fracture will begin on the side of the stick away from the knee, because that is the convex side of the curve. In the same way a blow on the skull first de- presses the latter and reverses the curve, so that the inner table becomes the convex side and must yield, like the convex layer of the bent stick. Any force which acts from without and bends the skull inward has a ten- dency to press together the particles of the outer table, while those of the inner table are driven apart. This bending inward of the skull depends upon its elasticity, for if it were not elastic it would be splintered into fragments or crushed. (3) Another proof of the fact that the inner table is not more brittle than the outer is to be seen in certain pathological speci- mens of skulls in which gunshot wounds have been produced by a ball which penetrated the skull on one side, but was arrested on striking the other side and did not perforate it. At the second impact the blow is first felt by the internal table, and produces slight effect upon it, while the splintering of the outer table at that point is similar to that which is usu- ally seen in the internal table when a non-penetrating blow has been de- livered upon the external table, first, as is usually the case. Fig. 640. Fissure of external table of the skull. From the same specimen. Depressed fracture of internal table corresponding to the external fissure. (Agnew.)