AXILLARY ANEURISM. 371 nion or internal carotid is quite successful, and is the operation of choice. Electrolysis has also been employed. Subclavian Aneurism.—Any of the three portions of the artery may be diseased, the second portion, however, being rarely affected. It is com- monest on the right side. It pushes forward the clavicle, or grows upward into the subclavian triangle, or downward and backward against the pleura. It is usually sacculated, and generally ruptures before reaching a great size. There is a delay in the pulse of the corresponding arm, but no change in the carotid pulse unless the innominate is also involved. Compression of the internal jugular and subclavian veins causes oedema in the neck and face in the case of the first vessel, and oedema and even gangrene of the arm in the second. Pain is referred to the arm, and is due to pressure on the neighboring brachial plexus, and on the right side the recurrent laryngeal may be affected as it winds around the first portion of the vessel, producing a brassy cough. Death follows rupture externally or into the pleura or trachea. Spontaneous cure is not very uncommon. Treatment.—In view of the danger of any operation, medical treatment should first receive a thorough trial. In disease of the first portion proxi- mal compression is impossible, and proximal ligature exceedingly danger- ous. Ligation of the first portion of the subclavian has always resulted fatally. Ligation of the innominate has been similarly unsuccessful, except in three or four cases, and is a very formidable operation. When under- taken it is generally advised to tie the carotid and the vertebral at the same time. Distal ligature has never succeeded alone. Amputation at the shoul- der-joint with distal ligature of the subclavian is not very satisfactory, but may be demanded. It is possible that with asepsis the future will yield better results for proximal ligation in this situation. Macewen has cured one case of subclavian aneurism by needling. In the third portion proximal compression should first be tried. Ligation to the proximal side in the second or third portion is the preferable operation. Excision, direct com- pression, and manipulation have been successful in isolated cases. Ampu- tation at the shoulder-joint may here also be finally called for. Axillary Aneurism.—A history of traumatism frequently precedes the development of axillary aneurism, such as attempts at the reduction of old dislocations of the humerus, and wounds and injuries of the axilla. The development is rapid, corresponding to the lack of support afforded by the tissues of the axillary space. It may grow upward, raising the shoulder, dislocating the clavicle, and appearing in the supraclavicular triangle; in- ward, eroding the ribs, or outward, abducting the arm, eroding the humerus, and perhaps bursting into the shoulder-joint. It is very liable to inflamma- tion. Characteristic pulse- and pressure-changes are present, as is neuralgia of the branches of the brachial plexus. It has been mistaken for, and must be diagnosed from, abscess in the axilla. Treatment.—Medical treatment may be tried if operation is impossible, but is not apt to be successful. Compression of the subclavian over the first rib should be tried first, and, as it is painful, anaesthesia may be neces- sary, with perhaps gentle pressure on the sac. If it fails, ligation of the third portion of the subclavian should be next employed. Excision may be prac-