OPERATIONS FOR DISPLACEMENTS OF THE UTERUS. 1191 ligament into the canal is frequently opened in the dissection. The serous membrane should be stripped off the cord with forceps, and it usually peels back readily. If a large opening is made, it should be closed by a catgut suture. The round ligaments may be stitched to the edges of the ring, but the best method of securing them is that suggested by Abbe. He uses the ligament itself as a suture material, and draws it back and forth through the pillars of the ring by a loop of thread on a large needle on a handle like the " carrying thread" for passing wire sutures. The round ligaments may also be shortened by an intraperitoneal operation. A laparotomy is done, the ligaments are drawn up, and a loop is made in each at the centre and the loops are secured by sutures passed through the overlapping parts. This last operation is suitable for cases in which strong adhesions prevent replacement without laparotomy, or when laparotomy is being done for some other purpose, such as the removal of a tumor. It seems unnecessary to undertake a laparotomy merely to shorten the ligaments. Whatever method be employed, it is also necessary to repair the peri- neum if lacerated, and to reduce the size of the vagina if dilated and pro- lapsed, in order to avoid any cause which may tend to reproduce the deformity. Ventral fixation is not suitable for young women in whom pregnancy is still possible, because it interferes with the development of the uterus, rupture of the uterus during a subsequent labor having followed in more than one case. Alexander's operation will fail occasionally be- cause the round ligament cannot be found or because it breaks when it is drawn out. Colporrhaphy.—When the vagina has been everted with a prolapsed uterus the canal becomes very greatly stretched, and it is necessary to reduce its calibre by colporrhaphy. This is done by making an oval denudation on the anterior or posterior wall or both, each denuded area being closed for itself, its edges being united by sutures across the raw sur- face. This operation is the equivalent of cutting a segment out of the vaginal wall at these points. Some have suggested denuding a portion of the vaginal wall anteriorly and posteriorly and bringing the raw surfaces together across the vagina by a series of sutures, forming a sort of pillar in the centre of the vagina. The results obtained by these methods are good, but the central pillar alone is not sufficient to hold the uterus in place, being apt to yield to the pressure in time. Another method consists in passing a series of buried sutures circularly around the vagina just under the mucous membrane, and thus constricting the canal so that the uterus cannot descend. Hysterectomy.—In very severe cases of prolapse of the uterus removal of the organ at the vulva is an excellent method of treatment. The opera- tion, however, is not easy, in spite of the low position of the uterus, on account of the great extent to which the bladder covers the fundus in the anterior wall of the prolapse. Hysterectomy, however, does not entirely correct the condition found, and leaves the pelvic floor very weak ; when it is done, therefore, the perineum should also be restored, and the rectocele and cystoeele treated by plastic operations. Operations for Anteversion.—No really successful method of opera- tive treatment for anteversion has yet been devised. For Retroflexion. —