1005 FISSURE OF THE ANUS. trouble. Treatment.—The treatment consists in removing the cause, if it can be discovered. If internal hemorrhoids or a fistula causes the affection, the cure of this condition by an operation should be undertaken. In cases in which the affection arises from seat worms, an enema of carbolic acid, 3ss ; glycerine, §i; water, f^viii; or of infusion of quassia, Si to Oij, will relieve the trouble. When arising from pediculi the application of tincture of lark- spur or of fishberries will destroy the parasites. When the affection is due to eczema marginatum, the use of a weak solution of sulphurous acid or hyposulphite of sodium, followed by an ointment of oleate of bismuth, will act well. In cases of eczema, the use of hot water and green soap and an ointment of oxide of zinc, or of chloroform fsi to simple ointment J i, or of dilute citrine or tar ointment, often is followed by good results. Where no distinct cause can be found, the diet should be regulated, meat being diminished and stimulants and tobacco avoided or used very sparingly; the free use of lithia water is often followed by benefit. Abscess of the Anus.—This affection, sometimes known as marginal abscess, arises from suppuration in an external hemorrhoid, in the mucous follicles of the anus, or in a small fissure of the anus, giving rise to more or less pain in the part: when it arises from an external hemorrhoid a super- ficial fistula may result, but it usually is attended with no serious conse- quences. It is not uncommon in children. Treatment.—This consists in making a free opening with a bistoury, in doing which the tip of the index finger should be passed into the rectum to steady the abscess and make it more prominent before it is incised. After opening the abscess, a narrow strip of gauze should be introduced into the cavity and a gauze dressing applied. The wound usually heals in a few days. Fissure or Irritable Ulcer of the Anus.—This consists of a small linear ulcer of the mucous membrane, which is usually situated at or near the posterior commissure, but may occur at any other part of the anus, and may arise from a slight traumatism, or from a rent in the mucous membrane caused by the passage of hard feces, or from a broken-down herpetic vesicle. (Fig. 807.) Ball considers that this ulcer results from an injury of one of the anal valves by some irregularity in the fecal mass which separates its lateral attachments, and that the ulcer thus formed is reopened at each movement of the bowels, so that it cannot heal, the conditions presented being very similar to those in hang-nail. The peculiar symptoms presented by this ulcer seem to depend not upon its special cause, but upon the fact that the ulcer is within the grasp of the sphincter muscle, and, being sub- jected to constant motion, cannot heal. Fissure of the anus is usually observed in adults, but occurs also in chil- dren. We have seen several cases of fissure of the anus with well-marked symptoms in this class of patients, and Jacobi thinks that fissure of the anus Fig. 807. Fissure of the anus