METASTASIS OF CARCINOMA. 119 called eleidin. When a malignant change begins in the cells it is found that this substance has been produced and that cornification has taken place even in the young epithelial cells of the deeper layers. Under these cir- cumstances the young cells are irregular in shape and have a marked ten- dency to rapid reproduction, as is indicated by the usual signs of karyoki- nesis. But the most significant change is the tendency of the newly formed cells to penetrate the basement membrane and to extend into the corium of the skin or into the submucous layers in solid masses. When this stage is reached the transformation is complete and the cancer has begun. Clini- cally these changes show themselves by a hardening and thickening of the tissues, by a tendency to ulceration or the formation of dry scabs on the sur- face, and by the extension of the infiltration beyond the original mass, and it is by these signs that the diagnosis must be made. The induration is quite different from that of ordinary inflammation, being more marked, having no trace of cedenia, and its outlines being very sharply limited. Carcinoma extends by a growth of the epithelial cells into the surround- ing tissue on all sides, there being usually no trace of encapsulation, but the method of this extension is not yet understood. The epithelial cells multiply by karyokinesis, like normal cells. There is a zone of small round-cell in- filtration, which usually spreads beyond the most advanced line of epithelial cells, and a similar round-cell infiltration is seen in the stroma of the tumor, especially when it is growing rapidly. These small round cells are probably of connective-tissue origin, and indicate an inflammatory reaction of the tis- sues against the epithelial invasion. The growth of the epithelial cells in the alveoli of the tumor is out of proportion to their blood-supply, and the central cells of each mass are so far removed from the vessels in the stroma that they are insufficiently nourished and are liable to break down and pro- duce softening or ulceration. This degeneration may be fatty, colloid, or myxomatous, and may involve the stroma as well as the epithelial cells. Cysts may be formed in the tumor by this degeneration. If the tumor grows in the secretory glands it may exert pressure upon the ducts and cause retention cysts. Cystic carcinoma is especially in danger of inflammatory changes, but all carcinomata, on account of their poor blood-supply and insufficient nutrition, are liable to inflammation, and to very rapid and extensive destruction in consecpaence. Metastasis.—These epithelial tumors have a strong tendency to spread in the lymphatic spaces and lymphatic vessels. They may extend along a lymphatic vessel to the nearest lymph-node, making a continuous growth of malignant tissue. Or a cell of the tumor may be carried on like an embolus and pass directly through the lymphatic vessels without contam- inating them, as water might pass through a pipe, and attack the next lym- phatic gland. When the gland is infected with the disease the epithelial cells grow freely in it, penetrate its capsule, and attack the surrounding cel- lular tissue, and they also spread onward through the lymphatic vessels to the next lymph-node above. This is the most common method of extension of malignant epithelial growths; but they also invade the blood vessels, like sarcoma. In such cases the wall of a vessel, usually a large vein, is attacked by the tumor, and the epithelial cells grow into the lumen of the