334 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL ARTERIES. controlled by packing the wound with gauze, or the wound may be enlarged and the vessel exposed and secured by two ligatures. Subclavian Artery.—This vessel may be injured in stab or gunshot wounds, or by a fragment of a fractured clavicle, and if the wound is exten- sive the patient will probably die from loss of blood before surgical treat- ment can be applied. If the patient survives the accident, the wound should be enlarged and the vessel secured by two ligatures. If a traumatic aneurism forms, this should be treated by opening the sac and securing the vessel by ligatures applied on each side of the wound. Internal Mammary Artery.—Bleeding from this vessel should be arrested by the application of ligatures, which can best be done by a blunt curved needle. Intercostal Arteries.—Hemorrhage from these vessels can be arrested by enlarging the wound and securing the vessel by two ligatures, even if it is necessary to resect a portion of the rib to expose it, or by introducing a firm compress of gauze into the wouud between the ribs. Axillary Artery.—This vessel may be injured by gunshot and stab wounds, or in removing tumors from the axilla, and has been ruptured in reducing old dislocations of the shoulder. As it is a large one, the bleeding may be so profuse as to be rapidly fatal; temporary control of the hemor- rhage may be effected by compressing the third part of the subclavian. The vessel should be exposed by incision, and, if the rupture be a high one, to expose its seat a portion of the pectoral muscle may have to be divided ; and when the wound is reached two ligatures should be applied, one to the distal and one to the proximal end. Brachial, Radial, and Ulnar Arteries—Wounds of these vessels should be treated by the application of two ligatures to the vessels, oue on each side of the wound. Palmar Arch.—Wounds of the vessels of this arch often give rise to persistent and serious hemorrhage, which should be treated by enlarging the wound and applying two ligatures to the ends of the divided arch. If secondary hemorrhage occurs, an attempt should be made again to secure the bleeding vessels in the wound with ligatures, and if this fails the brachial artery should be ligated at the elbow. The use of pressure by means of a graduated compress applied in the wound may arrest the bleed- ing temporarily, but is neither so safe nor so efficient as ligation of the bleeding vessels in the wound or ligation of the brachial artery. Gluteal and Sciatic Arteries.—Wounds of these arteries may arise from stab or gunshot wounds, and the arteries may be injured outside or within the pelvis. In treating hemorrhage from these vessels the wound should be enlarged, and, if it is found to involve the vessel outside of the pelvis, two ligatures should be applied to the injured vessel. If on exam- ination it is found that the bleeding comes from within the pelvis, the most satisfactory method of controlling it consists in ligating the internal iliac artery, from which the wounded vessels arise. Either the intra- or the extra- peritoneal method may be employed in ligating this vessel. Femoral Artery.—This vessel is frequently injured, and, as the hemor- rhage following is very profuse, it may prove rapidly fatal. The bleeding