CONDYLOMATA, OR VENEREAL WARTS. 1064 little constitutional disturbance, the principal symptoms being painful men- struation, sometimes pain in defecation and in coition, and a profuse leucor- rhoeal discharge. In both forms of the affection more or less enlargement and induration of the tubes can be discovered by a vaginal examination. Treatment.— This consists in rest in bed, hot external applications, hot vaginal douches, and opium if the pain is severe. If the symptoms do not subside in a few days under this treatment, and the induration does not diminish, laparotomy should be performed and the diseased tubes removed. CONDYLOMATA, OR VENEREAL WARTS. Moist or dry papillary overgrowths springing from the mucous mem- brane of the genitals are commonly known as venereal warts, but these growths may occur independently of any venereal affection, although they are quite often associated with it. The irrigating discharges from gonor- rhoea, chancroid, or the primary or secondary lesions of syphilis are often the cause of these papillary growths (Plate IV., Fig. 2), but they are also not infrequently caused by the discharge from a simple balanoposthitis or an irritating vaginal discharge often observed in children and in persons entirely free from venereal taint. They consist of small or large, discrete or confluent, moist or dry papillary growths, which are exceedingly vascular, and are made up largely of connective-tissue elements, the papillae being much hypertrophied and covered with a mucous layer ; in certain localities the horny layer may be found well developed. The favorite sites for these growths in the male are the internal surface of the prepuce, the furrow behind the corona glandis, the surface of the glans penis, and the edge of the meatus; in the female they appear upon the labia, in the vagina, and about the anus. Heat and moisture, conditions which exist in these locali- ties, are elements favorable for the development of vegetations. Phimosis often acts as a predisposing cause in the production of these growths, the concealed condition of the parts rendering the removal of the natural secre- tions, or the discharges due to venereal disease, difficult or impossible. When these growths occur upon the glans penis or the inner surface of the prepuce, they exist as elevated masses, granular in appearance, which may be pedunculated or sessile ; when situated upon the body of the penis or upon the edge of the prepuce, they are apt to be conical in shape and often show a predominance of the horny layer. In the neighborhood of the anus they appear as elevated granular masses flattened by pressure, while on the female genitals they are frequently seen as large masses resembling cauliflower growths. As regards the contagiousness of these growths, much difference of opinion exists ; some authorities consider them extremely so, the contagious property residing in the secretions from the growths themselves, while others believe them incapable of being transmitted in this way. If one growth is present upon the genitals, others are apt soon to develop, and there are many well-authenticated cases on record in which persons having intercourse with women suffering from genital vegetations have developed these growths, but in these cases the irritating discharge which produces the growth in the female is quite competent to produce similar growths in the man exposed to