15 INFLAMMATORY CONDITIONS CAUSED BY BACTERIA. Tuberculosis (lupus) (B. tu- berculosis). Leprosy (B. leproste"?). Syphilis (B. syphilidis ?). Tetanus (B. tetani). Babies (germ not isolated). The first three classes are of so little importance except as predisposing causes that we are unable to give any name to the reactions excited by them, with the single exception of gout and rheumatism, whereas in the list of inflammatory affections produced by bacterial infection we find nearly every serious inflammatory condition known to surgery. The conditions known as septicaemia and pyaemia are not included, because we look upon them as sequela? to bacterial infection and not as distinct diseases; the first being found with any germ, the second only with the pyogenic. Inflammatory Conditions caused by Bacteria.— 1. Inflammations caused by pyogenic germs (including B. coli, B. typhi abdominalis, gonococcus, pneumococcus, etc.) : Dermatitis, Furunculosis, Cellulitis, Carbuncle, Erysipelas (prob- ably), Peritonitis, Empyema, Meningitis, Synovitis, Phlebitis, Cystitis, Osteomyelitis, etc. 2. By special germs : Malignant oedema (Bacillus oedemat. malig.) Anthrax (B. anthracis). Glanders (B. mallei). Actinomycosis (Actinomy- ces). 2a. Special germs attacking mucous membranes (without previous lesion): Gonorrhoea (Gonococcus). Diphtheria (B. diphtheria}). Pathological Changes.—The Circulation.—When one of the causes mentioned above acts upon the tissues, the first alteration seen is an in- creasing supply of blood to the part, the arterial circulation being increased both IG' 10' by greater rapidity of the current through the vessels and by dilatation of all the small branches and capillaries. It has been shown by experiment that if the main artery which supplies each ear of a rabbit be divided and one of the ears have its tip immersed in water sufficiently hot to excite inflammation, the flow of blood from the cut end of the artery upon that side will be greater than that from the other, and since the vessel is thus affected at a distance from the inflamed part, the latter must always have an actual increase in its supply of blood. When the inflam- mation grows more intense, the circula- tion of the capillaries becomes slower and the corpuscles collect until they clog the vessels. The normal current of the blood in small vessels as seen under the microscope shows a thick central stream of corpuscles with a transparent border of lymph between it and the vessel- wall, containing only a few white corpuscles. (Fig. 10.) As the stream Normal circulation in a frog: red disks in centre of stream, leucocytes on the borders. (Agnew.)