ADMINISTRATION OF ETHER. 254 crowding a wet and softened ether cone over the nose and mouth, suffocating the patient; the latter condition might be produced by a similar use of a towel which contained no anaesthetic substance. The use of ether is attended with risk, in cases of advanced organic dis- ease of the kidneys, of causing suppression of urine. Its use also in cases of extensive atheroma of the arteries is attended with danger, because of the vascular excitement in the primary stage of its administration, which may cause rupture of an artery from increased tension. In cases of emphysema, chronic bronchitis, empyema, dyspnoea, or abdominal distention, the use of ether is attended with considerable risk. The extremely inflammable char- acter of the vapor of ether should be borne in mind in using the actual cau- tery and in bringing lights near a patient when operating at night; it should be remembered that the vapor of ether is heavier than the air and falls, so that lights may be brought near the wound with safety if they are held above the level of the ether inhaler. Ether may be administered by the open or by the closed method ; in the former there is allowed free access of air, and in the latter the patient breathes out of and into a bag containing vapor of ether, getting a more or less imperfect supply of air. By the latter method asphyxiation is more likely to occur, so that the open method of administration is the safer and the one generally employed in this country. Administration of Ether.—Ether may be administered by means of a towel folded into the shape of a cone. (Fig. 176.) A few layers of stiff paper interposed between the outer layers of the towel will keep the cone in Fig. 176. Fig. 177. Ether cone. Allis's inhaler. shape and will prevent the evaporation of ether from its external surface. Ether may be administered by one of the ordinary inhalers, and of these we have found Allis's inhaler (Fig. 177) the most satisfactory. It consists of a metallic framework covered with hard rubber or metal, which contains a number of folds of a roller bandage, presenting a large surface for the rapid evaporation of the drug. The patient being prepared as previously de- scribed, and the head being turned to one side, half an ounce of ether is poured into the cone or inhaler, and it is placed over the nose and mouth