940 TUMORS OF THE STOMACH. a laparotomy, invaginating the stomach-wall with the finger, and forcing the latter through the sphincter. The immediate effects of this operation were excellent, but subsequent contraction took place in the great majority of cases. Heineke and Mikulicz introduced an operation known as pyloroplasty, which is useful when the stomach-walls are thin and the duodenum and stomach can be brought easily in contact. Py- loroplasty is performed by incising the pylorus in the direction of its longitudinal fibres (Fig. 773, A), pulling the edges of this incision apart (B) and uniting them in an opposite direction (0), so that the two ends of the longitudinal incision are united in the centre, and the mid- dle points of its upper and lower lips become the upper and lower angles of the wound when sutured, the longitudinal incision thus being converted into a transverse one. For cases in which there is a tumor or limited inflammatory thickening of the wall of the stomach and pylorus, a resection of the parts gives excellent results. For all other cases a gastro enterostomy is the best method of treat- ment. Dilatation of the stomach, whether it is caused by mechanical obstruction at the pylorus or not, may be treated surgically by doing a laparotomy, folding a long strip of the anterior wall of the stomach into the interior of the organ, and securing it in that position by a series of sutures. In some rare cases the condition known as hour-glass contraction of the stomach exists as the result of cicatricial contraction of a circular ulceration in the centre of the organ, so that the cardiac and pyloric por- tions of the stomach are separated by a narrow stricture, barely admitting the finger. For the relief of this condition an operation similar to pyloro- plasty may be done, but Wolffier recommends making an anastomotic open- ing between the two parts of the stomach. Tumors.—Benign tumors of the stomach are mere curiosities on account of their rarity, but a chronic infiammation in the neighborhood of the py- lorus may produce such thickening of the stomach-wall in that situation as to simulate a cancer. This fibrous deposit may make the wall of the stomach over half an inch in thickness, and may interfere with the move- ments of the pylorus by its rigidity and produce obstruction. The diagno- sis may be very difficult, even when the new tissue has been cut into and inspected. If its benign nature appears certain it is unnecessary to remove the pylorus, as a gastroenterostomy will relieve the symptoms, bxit in cases of doubt it is better to resect that part. Cicatricial thickening of the pylorus may also simulate malignant disease. The malignant tumors of the stomach are sarcoma and carcinoma. Pyloroplasty : A, B, C, first, second, and third stages.