937 OPERATIONS UPON THE GALL-BLADDER, ligating the cystic duct and cutting away the organ. The mucous membrane of the stump is to be destroyed by cauterization. Partial removal of the gall-bladder is an excellent method of treating cases in which the ulcer or the tumor is limited to the fundus. 5. Cholecystenterostomy.— When there is a permanent obstruction in the common duct it is absolutely necessary to secure an outlet for the bile, which may be accomplished by making a permanent external fistula by cholecystostomy, but to avoid the loss of the bile it is preferable to make an opening between the gall-bladder and the bowel, as high up as possible. This may be done after the manner of a gastro-enterostomy by suturing the edges of a small incision in the gall-bladder to a similar incision in the loop of jejunum chosen. But a better method is the use of the Murphy button, the insertion of which will be described with gastro-enterostomy, page 943. (Fig. 772.) The operation by suture has had a mortality of thirty per Fig. 772. The Murphy button in position in cholecystenterostomy. (Dunn.) cent., whereas Murphy has collected forty-seven cases in which the button was used, with only two deaths. There are, however, two objections to the Murphy button: first, that the opening is very small and circular and may contract—obliteration having been known to take place in less than six months; secondly, that the button may slip back into the gall-bladder when it becomes detached, instead of falling into the intestine, and may there form a foreign body. The first objection can hardly be met, but the second might possibly be prevented by making the intestinal half of the button larger than that in the gall-bladder, as suggested by Lilienthal. 6. Choledochotomy is the making of an opening in the common duct. When this is sutured we speak of choledochendyse. When it is connected with the intestine we speak of a choledoehenterostoniy. The depth at which the common duct lies makes operations upon it exceedingly difficult in the