IRITIS. 818 DISEASES OP THE IRIS AND CILIARY BODY. SYMPATHETIC IRRITA- TION AND SYMPATHETIC INFLAMMATION. Inflammatory affections of the iris are described under the name iritis, and are usually symptomatic of disorders in other portions of the eye or of disease of the general constitution, or they may be traumatic. Symptoms.—These are: change in the color of the iris ; pericorneal injection, usually known as " ciliary congestioncontraction and irregu- larity of the pupil due to the formation of inflammatory attachments be- tween the iris and capsule of the lens, the so-called posterior synechia; (Fig. 711) ; irregularities on the surface of the iris due to accumulations of exu- Fig. 711. Posterior synechia. (Sichel.) date ; haziness of the cornea and turbidity of the aqueous humor. The subjective symptoms are pain, disturbance of vision, tenderness of the globe, photophobia, and lachrymation. The diagnosis of iritis is most important, and the acute variety should be distinguished from acute conjunctivitis and acute glaucoma. In conjunc- tivitis the pupil is freely mobile, the vision is usually unimpaired, and there are no synechias ; in glaucoma the pupil is dilated and fixed, without the presence of synechia, and the tension of the eyeball is raised. Iritis, when properly treated, presents a favorable prognosis. When improp- erly treated, or when allowed to run its course without treatment, the iris is bound throughout the whole extent of its pupil- lary edge {exclusion of the pupil), or there is a deposition of inflammatory material within the pupil (occlusion of the pupil). During iritis there may be associated ink Exclusion and occlusion of pupil following flammation of the cornea, the ciliary body, gummatous iritis. From a patient in the Philadelphia Hospital. or the deeper structures of the eye. (Fig. 712.) Treatment.—The treatment of iritis must meet several indications. First, prompt dilatation of the pupil by means of atropine, four grains to the ounce, or other suitable mydriatic, and maintenance of this mydriasis during the entire course of the disease. Second, recognition of the constitu-