DIAGNOSIS OF FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 700 tions of the brain beneath. These flat tumors are seldom tense, and the pulsation disappears in the course of a few hours or a few days. They are known by the name of cephalhematoma, or traumatic meningocele, the lat- ter name being badly chosen, for even when they contain cerebro-spinal fluid there is no protrusion of the membranes. Protuberances on the out- side of the skull, such as syphilitic nodes, congenital deformities, or periosteal thickening, may be misleading, but a careful study of the case, with examination of the other side of the head, where similar abnormalities will often be found, ought to settle all doubts. The diagnosis of fracture of the skull in many cases depends upon the symptoms caused by an accom- panying injury of the brain. In doubtful cases, in which it seems important to determine the diagnosis at once, an exploratory incision may be made, but these incisions should be limited to those cases in which the symptoms of cerebral injury seem to demand surgical treatment. Although under antiseptic precautions these incisions are not dangerous, the general rule that no fracture should be converted from a simple to a compound one without some adequate cause is to be observed. Diagnosis of Fracture of the Base of the Skull.—In fractures of the base some of the most important symptoms are the escape of blood from the ear, nose, or mouth, its appearance under the conjunctiva, or under the mucous membrane of the gum or the pharynx, the escape of the cerebro- spinal fluid from the same orifices, the discharge of brain fragments, and the indications of injury to the trunks of the nerves. Hemorrhage.—Hemorrhage from the ear occurs in one-half of the frac- tures of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It may be slight or very copious, but, as a rule, it is of short duration. Examination of the ear with the speculum should also be made, for fissures may be seen in the drum membrane after the hemorrhage has ceased. Sometimes there is no rupture of the membrane, and the blood escapes from the middle ear by the Eustachian tube. A few drops may follow a simple rupture of the drum, and blood may also collect in the middle ear behind an unruptured drum after a severe blow on the head without fracture of the skull. Bleeding from the nose or the mouth due to fracture of the base is very apt to be confounded with ordinary epistaxis or hemorrhage from other injuries. A fracture of the cribriform plate causes nasal hemorrhage. Blood issuing from the mouth may have run down from the nose, or may have come from the ear by way of the Eustachian tube. When hemorrhage is found under the conjunctiva, appearing some time after the injury, it indicates some deep orbital trouble, and usually implies fracture of the base, for ecchymo- sis due to injury of the conjunctiva itself forms immediately. Hemorrhage into the lids with ecchymosis is not so certain a sign, although if it appears long after subconjunctival hemorrhage has been noted it is safe to conclude that it has been caused by fracture. In a certain proportion of cases so much blood finds its way into the orbit as to cause exophthalmos. Ecchy- mosis appearing in front of the mastoid process and spreading upward and backward is characteristic of a fracture of the posterior fossa of the base. Escape of Cerebro-Spinal Fluid.—Cerebro-spinal fluid escapes most frequently from the ear, and occasionally from the nose. It is rarely de-