858 TREATMENT OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-PASSAGES. through the larynx. The pin shown in Fig. 736 was impacted in the right bronchus for twenty-three months, and was then coughed up and expelled, the patient making a good recovery. The termination of all cases is not so satisfactory as this, for the body may set FlG- 736- up inflammation, abscess or gangrene of the - mgminnuuux— lung may occur, and the patient may die cted in right bronchus, of septic infection or of exhaustion follow- ing the free discharge. Treatment.—When a foreign body has entered the air-passages and the symptoms are urgent, laryngotomy or tracheotomy should be immediately performed. The foreign body, if it be movable in the trachea, is often ex- pelled by a violent expiratory effort as soon as the trachea is opened, or may be removed from the trachea or larynx with forceps. When the foreign body has been in the air-passages for but a short time and no inflammatory symptoms have developed, the wound in the trachea should be closed by sutures. If, on the other hand, the body has remained for some days in the trachea or larynx and has set up inflammation of these organs, as evi- denced by the presence of rales and the expectoration of muco purulent discharge, after the body has been removed a tracheotomy-tube should be introduced and worn for some days, until inflammation of the parts has subsided. If the foreign body cannot be located, a tracheotomy-tube should be introduced, and attempts at removal of the body made later. Inversion of the patient, with slapping of the back and chest, which is sometimes recommended, we consider an unsafe procedure, unless the trachea or larynx has been previously opened. In cases in which a foreign body has entered the air-passages, after the first symptoms of its presence have passed off and if the patient presents no urgent symptoms, careful laryngoscopic exam- ination may reveal the location of the body, and it may be removed with laryngeal forceps; this method of treatment may be employed in adults, but is rarely possible in children. It may be laid down as a safe rule of practice that as soon as it is certain that a foreign body is lodged in the air-passages tracheotomy should be performed, for there is always great risk to the patient until it is removed, since it may suddenly become movable and occlude the glottis or set up oedema, which may rapidly cause death. Its removal by the intralaryngeal method after tracheotomy can be postponed until the patient becomes accustomed to the use of the instruments required. In cases of a foreign body lodged in the bronchus, a low tracheotomy should be performed, and by means of delicate curved forceps, or a short silver probe whose extremity is bent to form a hook, the body may be dislodged and removed. If it cannot be removed in this way, inversion of the patient, with slapping of the chest, may be practised. If all these procedures are unsuccessful, the tracheotomy-tube should be worn to keep the wound open, and after some time the body may become loose and pass into the trachea, when it can be removed by taking out the tracheotomy-tube and dilating the wound. Where a foreign body is lodged in the bronchus its removal by external operation is possible, but the operation is an extremely difficult one, con- sisting in dissecting up a flap three inches square, with its base at the inner