TRAUMATIC FEVER. 140 TRAUMATIC FEVER. In the repair of wounds after operations or injuries there is usually present a certain amount of constitutional disturbance, depending upon the processes taking place in the wound. If the wound remains aseptic the dis- turbance is slight; if, however, suppuration or specific infection occurs, the constitutional disturbance becomes very marked. We now recognize two forms of fever which may be developed during the repair of wounds—aseptic fever, and traumatic or inflammatory fever. Aseptic Fever.—Many aseptic wounds may heal with scarcely any febrile disturbance, but it is not unusual in such wounds to have the patient develop within twenty-four hours a slight elevation of tempera- ture, 100° to 102° F. (37.5° to 39.4° C), which in a few days returns to the normal. A similar rise of temperature is occasionally observed for a few days after simple fractures. The rise of temperature in these cases is ac- counted for by the absorption of minute portions of tissue, blood-clot, and effused serum, the so-called fibrin fever. The patient usually presents no disturbance other than the slight fever, and complains of no ill feeling, and the condition requires no special treatment, but the surgeon must beware of attributing every rise of temperature to this cause, for in the great majority of cases the fever is to be charged to slight infection. Traumatic or Inflammatory Fever.—In the repair of wounds which are not aseptic there will always be observed more or less constitutional disturbance. Before the introduction of antiseptic or aseptic methods in wound treatment it was usual to have this condition develop in all cases of open wounds, and its presence was considered an essential element in wound repair. Traumatic fever usually runs the following course. The temperature rises soon after the infliction of the wound, and at the end of twenty-four or forty-eight hours reaches 103° F. (39.5° O.) or 104° F. (40° C), with a slight morning remission ; it may remain about this point for a few days, and then gradually fall to the normal. Coincidently with the rise in temperature the patient exhibits constitutional symptoms, such as dryness of the skin, loss of appetite, acceleration of the pulse, and diminution of the excretions; the edges of the wound become red and swollen, and more or less purulent discharge escapes from it. The constitutional disturbance arises from the absorption of septic products due to the growth of pyogenic bacteria in the wound. If the discharges have free exit, as soon as the wound is covered with granulations the further absorption of septic products is arrested, the temperature falls, and the evidences of constitutional disturb- ance gradually subside. If, however, there is free suppuration and drainage of the wound is imperfect, the pus may burrow through the tissues, the temperature continues elevated, and the constitutional disturbance is still marked. Treatment.—A patient who presents well-marked traumatic fever should be kept at rest, and should be allowed a nutritious and easily digested diet, milk, broth, and semi-solids ; a milk diet is the best if it can be taken. A saline laxative is often employed with good results, and the