568 DIAGNOSIS OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. Supracoracoid Dislocation.—A few cases of dislocation of the head of the humerus have occurred iu which the bone occupied a position above the coracoid process. The head of the humerus lies in the interval between the acromion and coracoid processes, in front of the clavicle and usually above its level. (Fig. 493.) The arm occupies a position by the side of the body, and is directed rather backward. Eeduction is effected by traction upon the arm and by elevation of the elbow. Symptoms.—The signs of dislocation of the head of the humerus which are common to all varieties are an alteration in the shape of the shoulder ; the rotundity of the shoulder disappears, and it becomes flattened ; the acromion process becomes abnormally prominent, and beneath this is a marked depression in which the fingers can readily be sunk. The elbow stands off from the body, except in subspinous dislocation, and it will be found impossible to place the hand of the injured limb upon the shoulder of the sound side while the arm rests against the chest. This is the test pointed out by Dugas, and we consider it a most valuable one. There is also marked restriction of the movements of the shoulder-joint, and the displaced head of the bone can be located by the fingers. Pain is more marked in some varieties of shoulder dislocation than in others, and is often accompanied by numbness of the fingers in consequence of pressure upon the axillary nerves. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of dislocation of the head of the humerus is not difficult if the patient is seen soon after the injury ; if, however, much swelling has occurred, it is in many cases often made with difficulty. There- fore in obscure cases it is wise to administer an anaesthetic and make a care- ful and methodical examination of the joint to determine the presence of dislocation or of fracture of the neck of the humerus, or to demonstrate the association of these two injuries. In a case of injury of the shoulder- joint, in which the arm rests against the side of the body and can be moved freely, if Dugas's test can also be made, and if the fingers cannot be thrust into the space beneath the acromion process, the possibility of dislocation can be dismissed. Dislocation of the head of the humerus may be confounded with fracture of the neck of the humerus, of the neck of the scapula, or of the acromion. In all these cases there will be preternatural mobility, crepitus, and ease of reduction, with a tendency to a recurrence of the de- formity as soon as the limb is released from the reducing force. In disloca- tion the acromion stands out prominently, the shoulder is flattened, the arm stands out from the side of the body, the fingers can be thrust in a space under the acromion, the head of the bone can usually be felt in an abnormal position, and there is pronounced rigidity of the arm. Fractures of the surgical neck of the humerus or separation of the upper epiphysis may pre- sent a prominence in front of the shoulder, but the,change in the shape of the shoulder, the position of the arm, and the mobility are entirely differ- ent from that observed in cases of dislocation. Treatment.—The principal methods practised in the reduction of dislo- cations of the head of the humerus are manipulation, and extension and counter-extension. Reduction by Manipulation.—This consists in placing the arm in such