368 INNOMINATE ANEURISM. Treatment.—Operative treatment is very unpromising, and should not be undertaken until a thorough trial has been given to medical measures. If these fail, we have the choice of several methods, all attended by danger. Simultaneous ligation of the right carotid and right subclavian in disease of the first portion of the arch, and of the left carotid in disease of the second Fig. 277. Aortic aneurism bulging anteriorly. Aneurism of the arch of the aorta rising into (German Hospital Museum.) the neck, posterior view. (Aguew.) and third portions, sometimes results in temporary improvement. Galvano- puncture may be alleviating, and Macewen's method offers some encourage- ment, although Macewen deprecates its use in very large thoracic aneurisms. The introduction of foreign bodies has been tried a number of times, with unfavorable results. Innominate Aneurism.—This aneurism may be confined to the in- nominate, or the aorta, the subclaAdan, or the carotid may also be involved. It is usually sacculated. This aneurism presents a tumor over the situation of the innominate, growing forward, eroding the ribs and sternum, and dis- placing the clavicle, upward over the carotid artery, or backward towards the vertebrae, with alteration of the pulse on the right side in the arm and neck, and with oedema of the same region and the right side of the face, following pressure on the neighboring veins. Dysphagia and dyspnoea may be present, and the neighboring nerves, including the pneumogastric, bra- chial, and cervical, may suffer from pressure. Like aneurism of the aorta, it is a progressive lesion. In the diagnosis we must exclude aneurism of the arch of the aorta, the first portion of the subclavian, and the carotid at the root of the neck. We rely mainly on the primary point at which the aneurism appears,—that is, at the sternal end of the clavicle and between the heads of the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle,—the direction in which it grows, the pressure-symptoms, and the pulse in the distal branches of the vessel. Death follows rupture externally or into the pleura, trachea, or oesophagus.