REDUCTION OF FRACTURES. 432 ally adopted method of treatment by immobilization. It is possible that the best results will follow a judicious combination of the two methods. Provisional Dressings of Simple Fractures—It usually happens that a fracture occurs at a locality more or less distant from the place where its treatment is to be conducted, and the transportation of the patient and the temporary dressing of the fracture are therefore matters of great im- portance. In simple fractures of the upper extremity the clothing need not be re- moved ; the arm should be bound to the side by some article of clothing, or supported in a sling made from handkerchiefs or the clothing, and the patient can then usually ride or walk without inconvenience and without injury to the parts in the region of the fracture. When, however, the bones of the lower extremity or of the trunk are involved, the transportation of the patient is a matter of much greater difficulty. When the bones of the trunk are involved, the part should be surrounded by a binder, firmly pinned or tied, made from the clothing or from sheets or any other strong material which may be at hand. When the bones of the lower extremity are in- volved, if the fracture be a simple one, the clothes need not be removed, and the motion of the fragments at the seat of fracture should be prevented by applying to the sides of the limb, extending above and below the seat of fracture, strips of wood, shingles, or pasteboard, bundles of straw, strips of bark taken from trees, or bundles of twigs, these being held in place by handkerchiefs or strips torn from the clothing. Umbrellas, canes, or broom- sticks applied in the same manner may be employed, the object of all of these dressings being to secure temporary fixation of the fragments, or the injured limb may be bandaged to the sound one. If the fragments are not fixed in some way, but are allowed to move about during the transportation of the patient, much damage may result to the soft parts around the frac- tured bone, and simple fractures may become compound ones by the bones being forced through the skin, the discomfort and danger to the patient being thus much increased. Reduction or Setting of Fractures.—Before attempting the reduc- tion of a fracture it is necessary to remove the portion of the clothing cover- ing the injured part, and in doing this the part should be firmly held, ex- tension being made while an assistant either cuts away the clothing, or rips it so that it can be removed so as freely to expose the parts. Reduction or setting of fractures consists in bringing the fragments by extension and manipulation as nearly as possible into their normal position, and is accomplished by making extension, counter-extension, and manipu- lation with the hands, care being taken to use no more force than is neces- sary to attain this object. The principal obstacle to the reduction of frac- tures is muscular spasm, which may be overcome by placing the parts in such a position as to relax the muscles which cause the displacement, or by the administration of an anaesthetic. Reduction in cases of fracture should be effected as soon as possible after the occurrence of the injury, and as soon as the surgeon is prepared to apply the dressings which are to be employed in the future treatment of the case. Reduction at an early period is less painful to the patient and is accomplished with more ease by the surgeon