678 TALIPES, OR CLUB-FOOT. which are present, and the toe should afterwards be fixed in a position of adduction. We have seen very satisfactory correction of this deformity by osteotomy of the metatarsal bone above its head : after relieving the deform- ity the correction should be maintained for some weeks by a plaster of Paris bandage. Folder's operation consists in making an incision in the web and on the dorsum between the toes, followed by division of the external lateral ligament, and dislocation of the toe inward, opening the joint; the internal condyle of the metatarsal bone is next removed, the toe replaced, and the wound closed with sutures, the resulting scar being out of the way of press- ure. It is not to be employed when suppuration has commenced in the bursa or joint. TALIPES, OR CLUB-FOOT. Talipes, or club-foot, is a deformity iu which the relations of the different parts of the foot to one another, and of the foot to the leg, are altered from the normal. It may be either congenital or acquired, and embraces the fol- lowing primary forms. Talipes equinus is the condition in which the foot is extended, the weight being borne on the balls of the toes. Talipes calcaneus is the reverse condition, the toes being drawn up and the heel in contact with the ground. Talipes varus consists in an inversion of the foot; the inner side is drawn upward, and the patient walks on the outer edge of the foot. Talipes valgus is the opposite of varus, the foot being everted. Alterations in the arch include two varieties— talipes cavus, in which the arch is increased, the anterior portion of the foot being flexed on the posterior, accompanied by the presence of a farrow across the sole, and talipes planus, in which the arch is broken down. These different primary forms are very frequently combined, the name indicating the deformity, as equino-varus, equino-valgus, calcaneo-valgus, and calcaneo-varus, the combinations pro- ducing compound deformities with flexion and eversion, flexion and inver- sion, etc. Club-foot is a frequent deformity : of the two forms, acquired and congenital, the former is encountered the more frequently, the proportion being about three to two, according to Adams. Congenital club-foot is more common in male than in female infants, and is oftener double than single. The etiology is not yet well made out. It is undoubtedly inherited in some cases, and consanguinity in the parents is well established as a favoring fac- tor. It has been regarded as a result of retarded development, ascribed to a failure of rotation from the primary intra uterine position, in which the soles are turned inward, and to prenatal lesions of the nervous system. The acquired forms are generally paralytic in origin, especially as sequelae of acute anterior poliomyelitis, resulting in equinus, equino-varus, and equino-valgus, calcaneus and valgus being rarer. Pure equinus is exces- sively rare as a congenital type. Hysterical club-foot has been observed in young neurotic females. Other rare cases are the results of sprains, frac- tures, and ostitis of the ankle. It may also occur as a sequel of knock- knee. Pathology.—The skin, tendons, fasciae, and bones all take part in the deformity. The soft tissues are lengthened or shortened, as the case may be, the tendons are misplaced, and the bones are altered in shape and brought into new relations with one another.