HEALING BY APPOSITION. 71 Section through skin of guinea-pig eight hours after a wound : a, the wound, filled with clot, the capillaries throm- bosed on both sides ; round-cell infiltration ; 6c, sweat-gland ; d, hair-follicle. (Shakespeare.) thelial cells of the divided blood-vessels multiply and take an active part in the process. In spite of the slight congestion and the new cells produced, the reaction is much less than that of inflammation. The new cells invade the blood-clot, consuming it and also any foreign matter or any tissue which may have been killed by the injury. From the loops of the occluded capillaries at the sides of the wound spring buds of endothelial cells, which grow like the roots of a tree into the mass of blood- clot and cells, becoming thicker and then hollow as they extend, blood-cells form- ing in them, and blood enter- ing them also from behind. (Fig. 31.) These advancing endothelial tubes anastomose with their neighbors, and also with those which have started from the other side of the wound, and thus the new-forming tissues are sup- plied with blood-vessels. (Fig. 32.) It is said that new vessels are also formed by the pre-existing lymph-spaces and by indepen- dent cells. Meanwhile the con- nective-tissue cells have been forming fibres across the clot, and epithelial cells begin to spread over its surface if skin or mucous membrane be in- volved in the injury. The new vessels disappear, and the new connective tissue forms the cicatrix. (Fig. 33.) This is the process of primary union in a wound in which there is not a marked cavity or a loss of tissue on any of the exposed surfaces of the body, and no matter how closely the edges of such a wound may lie in contact it can heal by no other method. Even the closest ap- position of the sides of a wound cannot prevent the interposition of a thin layer of clot and the partial death and absorption of a very thin layer on The same at a later stage. The clots in the capillaries almost removed, new vessels forming towards the gap, new connective-tissue spindle-cells replacing the round cells. The epithelium has united on the surface. (Shakespeare.)