WOUNDS OF THE EYEBALL. 799 tion may gradually occur, or the swelling of the lens may occasion iritis, cyclitis, or secondary glaucoma, and it may be necessary at once to make a corneal section and evacuate the swollen lens material. If there is no call for immediate operative interference, the pupil should be dilated with atropine until all signs of irritation have passed away, and then the lens may either be absorbed by the operation of discission (page 828) or be extracted in the ordinary manner. In the second instance the blow probably causes a slight rupture of the capsule, and the cataract is known as a concussion cataract. Foreign bodies in the lens will be considered on page 801. Wounds of the Eyeball.—Wounds of the eyeball may be divided into those which are superficial and non-penetrating, and those which are deep and penetrating. Wounds of the conjunctiva are usually lacerated, and generally are situated on the bulbar expansion of this membrane. The conjunctival cul-de-sac should be flushed with a weak antiseptic solution, preferably a saturated solution of boric acid, and the divided conjunctiva united with a few points of fine silk suture, which may be removed on the third day. Superficial wounds of the cornea usually occur in the form of an abrasion, the epithelium having been scraped away by the impact of the wounding substance, for example, a finger-nail, an iron filing, or a piece of glass. Although the lesion is insignificant, it gives rise to sharp pain, marked photophobia, and copious lachrymation. Abrasions of the cornea are important because they are frequently the starting-points of serious corneal ulceration, particularly if they have oc- curred in an eye in which there is some unhealthy secretion in the lachrymal passages. Treatment.—This consists in sterilization of the conjunctival cul-de-sac with a saturated solution of boric acid or a solution of bichloride of mer- cury 1 to 10,000, and the application of a light sterilized pressure bandage. If there is much ciliary irritation there is no objection to a drop of atropine solution. Usually in twenty-four hours the abrasion will heal and the bandage may be discontinued. Penetrating wounds of the eyeball may be situated in any portion of the globe, but are common at the corneo scleral junction, or between the corneal border and the ecpiator of the eyeball. A penetrating wound of the cornea or of the corneo scleral junction is followed by evacuation of the aqueous humor, and generally by entanglement of the iris in the corneal wound, or by prolapse and staphylomatous bulging. Treatment.—If the case is seen within a few hours after the accident, it is sometimes possible to replace the iris with a spatula, and by the instil- lation of atropine, if the wound has a central situation, or of eserine, if it has a peripheral situation, to retain the iris in place and prevent further pro- lapse. If, however, the iris has become firmly attached to the wound, and its surface is already covered with a layer of lymph, this procedure is not practicable. One of two methods may be adopted : the prolapsed iris may be seized, drawn forward, and abscised, as in the operation of iridectomy,