850 ABSCESS OF THE LARYNX. tervals, and in many cases we think its persistent use will obviate the necessity for operative treatment. If, however, the dyspnoea increases in spite of this treatment, intubation or tracheotomy should be promptly performed. These operations should not be postponed until the patient, exhausted by prolonged struggles for breath and imperfect aeration of the blood, is dying from cardiac failure. Perichondritis and Chondritis of the Larynx.—These affec- tions of the larynx are clinically difficult to differentiate, although chon- dritis is probably always preceded by perichondritis. Perichondritis and chondritis seldom are observed as primary affections, but usually follow an injury, or syphilitic, tuberculous, or cancerous ulceration, and occasionally are observed as sequelae of typhoid fever or the exanthemata. The cricoid and arytenoid cartilages are those most commonly involved. When an abscess forms beneath the perichondrium, necrosis of the cartilage usually results, and the pus may be discharged into the larynx, or may perforate the cartilage and open into the tissues of the neck ; a perforation involving the mucous membrane and the cartilage may be followed by emphysema of the neck. Symptoms.—These are similar to those of laryngitis, and consist of pain on pressure, in swallowing, and in phonation, hoarseness, cough, and in some cases rapidly developing dyspnoea. Treatment.—In the early stages of the affection leeches or an ice-bag may be employed, as well as medicated steam sprays. The difficulty in swallowing may be so great that for the proper administration of fluids and food the stomach-tube or enemata will be required. If under this treatment the symptoms do not improve and dyspnoea becomes marked, intubation or tracheotomy should be performed. External sinuses resulting from abscess may persist, and to obtain healing in these cases it is often necessary to lay them freely open and remove the necrosed cartilage. Abscess of the Larynx.—This may arise from traumatism or de- velop in the course of typhoid fever or the exanthemata, but most frequently is a secondary affection following perichondritis or chondritis. The abscess may be situated within the larynx, occupying any portion of the organ, or it may be situated outside of the larynx. Symptoms.—The symptoms of intralaryngeal abscess are similar to those of perichondritis—pain, hoarse- ness, cough, difficulty in swallowing, and dyspnoea ; if oedema of the larynx occurs, sudden suffocative symptoms develop. In extralaryngeal abscess pain and dysphagia are present, but dyspnoea is not often marked unless oedema of the larynx develops. A laryngoscopic examination in the case of an intralaryngeal abscess will often reveal the presence and seat of the abscess. Spontaneous evacuation of these abscesses often occurs, and is followed by marked relief of the symptoms ; but in cases in which dyspnoea is well developed it is not safe to wait for this to take place. Treat- ment.—In intralaryngeal abscess, if the abscess can be exposed by the use of a laryngoscope, it should be promptly opened with a laryngeal knife or a director, if its walls are thin; if, however, dyspnoea is marked and the abscess cannot be exposed, tracheotomy should first be performed, and the abscess may be opened subsequently or allowed to rupture sponta- neously. As soon as the abscess has been opened, the head should be low-