FRACTURES OF THE RIBS. 439 the teeth of the fragments they may be held securely in position. The patient should be fed upon liquid or semi-liquid diet until there is union at the seat of fracture. The dressing should be changed at intervals of two or three days, and can usually be permanently removed after five or six weeks. In extensive compound fractures of the jaw it is often advisable to pack the wound care- fully witli iodoform gauze, which requires removal at intervals of two or three days. Fracture of the Hyoid Bone.—The hyoid bone from its position is not often fractured, yet occasionally this accident has occurred as the result of blows upon the neck, of constriction of the parts, or in hanging. Symptoms.—The most marked symptom of this accident is pain in the submental region, which may be very severe, and is aggravated by move- ments of the neck or of the tongue ; swallowing is also accompanied by pain, and crepitus may sometimes be obtained. Displacement of the fragment can best be detected by introducing the finger into the pharynx. Treatment.—If there is displacement, this should be reduced by intro- ducing one finger into the pharynx, and with the fingers upon the outside of the neck, over the position of the bone, pushing the fragment outward and forward. The patient should abstain for a few days as far as possible from moving the jaw and from swallowing. The head and neck should be fixed by sand-bags. If inflammatory symptoms are present, active local treatment should be employed. If cough is a prominent symptom, it should be controlled by opium. A splint of pasteboard or leather moulded to the anterior surface of the neck has been used in some cases with advantage. Eectal feeding and rest in bed should at the same time be employed. Fractures of the Ribs.—These fractures are very frequent, and may occur at all ages, but are most common in middle and advanced life. In children the mobility and elasticity of the thoracic walls cause this injury to be much less frequent. Fractures of the ribs may be caused by blows, falls, or the passage of heavy bodies over the chest, or by the chest being caught between compressing forces, and are apt to occur in the anterior or the posterior portion of the slight, being prevented by the intercostal muscles and aponeuroses, although in fractures produced by direct violence there may be an inward displacement of the rib, causing injury of the lung. Complications.—The principal complications following fractures of the ribs are injury of the pleura or lung, producing hemorrhage, pneumo- nia, and emphysema, or laceration of the intercostal vessels followed by profuse hemorrhage. rib. (Fig. 337.) The ribs most frequently broken are those from the third to the eighth; the first and second ribs are seldom broken. The displacement in frac- tures of the ribs is usually Common positions of fractures of the ribs. Fig. 337.