642 RESECTION OF THE CLAVICLE. the dorsal surface of the joint or upon its lateral surface, and after exposing the joint the lateral ligaments are divided. The articular surfaces of the bones are removed with a saw or with bone forceps. Resection of the Clavicle.—Resection of this bone, either partial or complete, may be required for injury or disease. Disease of the clavicle arising from tuberculosis or infective osteomyelitis usually involves the shaft, so that the diseased portion extends only to the epiphyseal lines. The operation of complete or partial removal is occasionally required for sarcoma of the clavicle. Operation.—The clavicle is resected by making an incision over the bone from one articulation to the other, which is carried directly down to the bone; the periosteum is then separated, the shaft of the bone divided at its middle, and each fragment raised with forceps and disarticulated (Fig. 568), or the bone may be disarticulated at one extremity, and, being raised up, be freed from its adherent tissues Fig. 568. an(j disarticulated at the other extremity. In disarticulating the sternal end of the clavicle a probe-pointed knife should be used, and great care should be exercised to avoid injury of the important vessels and nerves which lie in close proximity to it. Resection of the Ribs.—Eesection of the ribs may be required for injury or disease, and a partial resection of one or more ribs is frequently employed to secure free drainage in cases of empyema. The special operations employed for this purpose are described under Resection of the ciavicil. Diseases of the Chest, Operation.—In excising a rib the incision should correspond in length and direction with the portion of the bone to be removed, and may be crossed at each end by a short transverse incision ; the tissues overlying the rib are then dissected loose, the periosteum is sepa- rated as far as possible, the rib is divided with cutting pliers at two points, and the piece is grasped with forceps, and removed by separating the attach- ments to its under surface with an elevator or a dry dissector. When this operation is not done to secure drainage from the chest, great care should be taken to avoid opening the pleural cavity. Resection of the Sternum.—Resection of the sternum may be re- quired for injury, for caries, or for sarcoma. The entire sternum has been removed, as well as the individual sections of the bone. Eesection of the sternum is accomplished by making a longitudinal incision over the portion 'of the bone to be removed ; after the periosteum has been exposed it should be carefully separated, and the diseased portion of the bone is then care- fully freed from the attachments upon its posterior surface with an eleva- tor, and is removed with forceps. After its removal a drainage-tube should be introduced, and a copious gauze dressing applied and held in position by strips of plaster placed so as to produce some fixation of the anterior portion of the chest.