914 TUMORS OF THE MAMMARY REGION. or even buried between the protruding cysts. The galactoceles are generally easily recognized by their rapid growth during lactation, without pain and without great tension. Eeclus has described a cystic disease of the breast which is marked by the formation of multiple cysts, generally of small size, dispersed through- out the organ. It occurs after the menopause, like the involution cysts, but in addition to the formation of cysts there is some fibro-adenomatous change of the tissues, and the disease is probably to be looked upon as a neoplasm. In two-thirds of the cases it occurs in only one breast. It pro- gresses slowly, sometimes forming tumors of considerable size, and is diffi- cult to distinguish from chronic interstitial mastitis and from fibro adenoma. The course of the disease is benign, but the French observers assert that it is apt to be converted into malignant disease later. Lymphatic cysts develop in the fibrous stroma, but they are rare. They have occasionally caused the removal of the breast under the supposi- tion that cancer was present. They occur after the menopause, as deep- seated, single or multiple cysts, tense, and not fluctuating. They are lined with endothelium, and their contents are said not to contain albumin. Mention should also be made of the presence of hydatid cysts in the breast, although these are rare, particularly in America. The treatment of cysts is evacuation of their contents by aspiration or incision, and, if they return, the injection of iodine or pure carbolic acid. Galactoceles may require extirpation, because they are lined with an active secreting epithelium, and they should be removed with as little damage to the breast-tissue as possible. Tumors of the Mammary Region.—Sebaceous cysts appear in the skin over the breast, and particularly in the sebaceous glands of the nipple. Dermoid cysts are rare. Angioma may develop on the skin of the breast, and occasionally it has been observed in the nipple, forming pendulous tumors requiring removal. Painless fibroid tumors have been observed on the skin of the breast, and these, too, should be removed. Epithelioma of the skin of the breast, while rare, is occasionally met with, and runs the ordinary course. Lipoma is found in the subcutaneous fat over the breast, and sometimes forms large tumors behind the gland, de- veloping between it and the pectoral muscles. The latter tumors are often taken for an abscess, or a malignant tumor of the breast itself. The treat- ment of all these tumors is removal. Benign tumors situated behind the breast can be removed by a semicircular incision following the lower border of the gland and lifting the latter from the chest. DISEASES OP THE MALE BREAST. Although an atrophied organ in the male, the mamma is liable to chronic mastitis, and carcinoma is found quite frequently—about one case to one hundred in the female. It usually runs rather a slow course, but is apt to be discovered too late to allow of a permanent cure by operation. The ordinary scirrhus is the common variety. The local changes and the symp- toms of these conditions are similar to those in the female.