1153 CATARRHAL PROSTATITIS. Ablation of the Scrotum.—The scrotum has beeu amputated for vari- cocele, and fan- results have been claimed, but in our experience it is insuf- ficient without ligature of the veins. For this operation the patient is anaesthetized, although it may also be done with cocaine. The scrotum is held up by the raphe by an assistant while the surgeon adjusts to it a long, slender curved clamp below the testicles, so as to compress it laterally. To prevent the clamp from slipping, it is well to pass two or three needles through the scrotum on the outer side of the clamp. The scrotum is then cut away a quarter of an inch below the clamp, and half a dozen mattress sutures inserted to hold the parts in apposition. A continuous suture of fine catgut is then run over the edge, bringing the skin-edges together. This apposition may be difficult with the clamp in place, in which case the sutures may be left loose and drawn up after the instrument has been re- moved. The use of the clamp is of assistance to the operator, as it makes the operation a bloodless one and holds the lax parts firmly in position, and it also draws all the layers of the scrotal tissues into the wound, and thus the natural raphe is preserved, whereas if only skin-union is obtained it easily stretches afterwards. The clamp may, however, be dispensed with if half a dozen mattress sutures are applied while an assistant holds up the scrotum by the raphe. These sutures must be placed just within the line of the pro- posed incision, and must not be tied too tightly, for fear of gangrene of the edges of the wound. It need scarcely be noted that thorough shaving and preliminary sterilization of the parts are necessary, with a firm occlusive dressing afterwards, if primary union is to be obtained. The latter is par- ticularly difficult to achieve in the scrotum. DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. Inflammation.—The prostate is liable to certain inflammations, which may be either catarrhal or suppurative, and are pyogenic, gonorrhoea^ or tuberculous in origin. Catarrhal prostatitis, often called prostatorrhoea, may be due to excessive sexual excitement (although it is more commonly seen as the result of masturbation than of coition), to infection by unclean instruments, or to mechanical irritation by riding astride narrow seats. The symptoms of catarrhal prostatitis are a sensation of weight and discomfort in the peri- neum, rarely amounting to actual pain, with hyperesthesia of the prostatic urethra, and an increase in the frequency of micturition. There is a feeling of weakness in the lumbar region, sometimes a dull, aching pain. A slight mucous discharge also shows itself by gluing together the lips of the meatus in the morning, and a few drops of the fluid may be passed at stool, or an unusual amount of this discharge may take place during sexual excitement. A slight discharge of prostatic fluid during sexual excitement is natural, and even at stool it is not necessarily abnormal, but the quantity is increased in catarrhal prostatitis. It is this symptom which is usually called sper- matorrhoea by the laity, but the fluid contains no spermatozoa. By expres- sion of the prostate, which is carried out by inserting one finger in the rectum and making pressure upon the gland from behind, a considerable amount of this fluid can sometimes be obtained for examination, and it con- 73