565 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. accident occasionally occurs in children from lifting them by one arm. Symptoms.—The displacement may be recognized by a marked projection of the lower angle of the scapula, which increases when the arm is drawn for- ward ; pain and disability of the arm may also be present. To reduce this deformity the muscle should be relaxed by carrying the arm well backward, and when in this position manipulation with the fingers should be made to replace the muscle. It may be found impossible to reduce the deformity in these cases. DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. Dislocation of this joint occurs more frequently than of any other joint in the body, forming a little over fifty per cent, of all dislocations. This fact is due to the great extent of movement permitted by the scapulo- humeral articulation, the shape of the glenoid cavity, and the great leverage due to the length of the upper extremity. Causes.—A dislocation of the shoulder may result from indirect vio- lence, such as falls upon the elbow or hand, or from direct violence, as a severe blow upon the anterior or posterior part of the shoulder, or from muscular action. Varieties.—The most frequent dislocations of the shoulder-joint are (1) dislocation of the head of the bone downward and slightly inward, sub- glenoid; (2) forward, subcoracoid; (3) subclavicular; (4) backward on the dorsum of the scapula, subspinous. Anomalous dislocations occasionally occur, either from force acting in a particular way or applied after one of the ordinary dislocations has occurred. Among the anomalous dislocations may be mentioned the supra-acromial and the vertical dislocation of the arm above the head, luxatio erecta. Subglenoid Dislocation.—In this dislocation the capsular ligament is extensively torn on its lower surface, and the head of the humerus slips through it and takes a position on the anterior border of the scapula imme- diately below the glenoid cavity. (Fig. 486.) The head of the bone rests between the tendon of the triceps and subscapular muscles. The axillary blood-vessels and nerves may suffer more or less from pressure, and the muscles surrounding the articulation also may be injured. It is not un- usual in this dislocation for the deltoid muscle to be paralyzed from damage done to the circumflex nerve. The deformity in this dislocation is well shown in Fig. 487. Causes.—This dislocation may follow a fall or a blow upon the anterior surface of the shoulder, or may be produced by force which drags the arm over the head. Violent muscular contraction may also produce it. Subcoracoid Dislocation.—In this dislocation, which is the most common of the shoulder dislocations, the anterior surface of the capsular ligament is lacerated and the head of the bone takes a position upon the inner surface of the neck of the scapula below the coracoid process. (Fig. 488.) The deformity in this dislocation is shown in Fig. 489. Subclavicular Dislocation.—Here the head of the bone rests upon the side of the chest below the clavicle (Fig. 490), and is covered by the pectoralis major and minor muscles. The supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles and the portion of the deltoid which arises from the acromion