320 HEMORRHAGE. bullet, according to its velocity, may simply contuse an artery, may tear away a portion of it, or may perforate it or completely divide it. If the vessel has been simply contused, no hemorrhage results, and if the wound re- mains aseptic the vitality of the vessel may be retained, and repair take place without marked change in its lumen. Contused wounds of arteries, if infec- tion and sloughing occur, are usually followed by secondary hemorrhage at the end of a week or two. Laceration or complete division of the artery causes profuse primary hemorrhage, the blood escaping from the external wound, or in wounds of deep vessels it may be extravasated in the tissues, giving rise to a diffused aneurism. Gunshot wounds of large arteries, if complicated by wounds of the accompanying veins, are likely to be fol- lowed by gangrene. Gunshot wounds of arteries are often complicated by the presence of foreign bodies driven into the tissues with the ball, such as portions of the clothing, and may be further complicated by coincident fracture of the bones and wounds of nerves. Infection of the wound may result from the introduction of foreign bodies. Treatment.—In gunshot wounds accompanied by free hemorrhage, if involving the large vessels of the extremities, an Esmarch's bandage should be applied, an incision should be made exposing the wound in the artery, and the vessel should be secured by two ligatures applied above and below the wound ; if the accompanying vein is only nicked or partially divided, a lateral ligature or sutures should be applied ; if extensively injured or com- pletely divided, it should be secured by two ligatures applied above and below the wound. Where there is little external hemorrhage, but bleeding into the tissues, as evidenced by change in color of the limb and swelling near the seat of injury, the artery should be exposed by incision at the point of injury, the blood-clot should be turned out, and the vessel should be ligated as previously described. If gunshot contusion of an artery is not followed by immediate occlusion of the vessel at the seat of injury, the part should be put at rest and the wound kept aseptic. Under such treatment repair may take place in the wounded artery without the development of serious symptoms. If, however, secondary hemorrhage occurs, the artery should be exposed in the wound and ligated in a healthy portion by two ligatures. If this cannot be satisfactorily done, it should be exposed above the wound and tied. Primary traumatic gangrene following a gunshot wound of an artery of the extremities, if rapidly developed, usually requires amputation of the limb at as high a point as the injury of the artery. If gangrene occurs later, after the artery has been secured in the wound, and is localized, the surgeon should wait for the formation of the lines of demarcation and separation before resorting to amputation. HEMORRHAGE. Hemorrhage always occurs after wounds of the blood-vessels, and may be so slight in amount as to produce little local or constitutional disturb- ance, but if large vessels are injured it may be profuse, and attended with great danger to life. The blood may escape through an open wound, or be extravasated into the tissues or into some of the cavities of the body.