EMIGRATION OF WHITE CORPUSCLES. 17 (F. C. Wood, M.D.) rection of blood-current. Fig. 13. Leucocytes in (Agnew.) motion. or forms vesicles or blisters in the skin by detaching the superficial epithe- lial layers. Complete stasis, or stoppage, of the circulation is seen only when the in- flammation is exceedingly intense and would cause the death of the part if it continued long. This result follows some forms of inflammation, in which the first clinical sign of disturbance is the appearance of necrotic areas, and in which there is little or no accompanying congestion. Usually the current merely becomes slower than normal. This retarded circulation is followed by the phenomena of emigration. Emigration.—Emigration of the white blood-corpuscles consists in the passage of the cells directly through the vessel-wall. It is most frequently seen in the capillaries, although it may also take place in the small veins. The white corpuscles, or leuco- cytes, have the property of amoeboid movement (Fig. 13), stretching out at will, in any direction, long, narrow processes of their protoplasm (called pseudo- podia), which may be attached to any object, and, having secured an anchorage, the rest of the proto- plasmic body is drawn towards it. In this way the leucocytes are able to pass through interstices between cells or along narrow channels in the tissues. When the blood-current becomes sufficiently slow to enable them to cling to the walls of the vessels, it- will be observed that amoeboid movements begin. Sometimes the cells lose their hold and are swept on again, but in other cases a minute bud of protoplasm will appear on the outer side of the wall of the vessel, opposite to the spot where the leucocyte is clinging, and as this grows larger a narrow neck of protoplasm can be traced through the wall directly to the leucocyte, and it will presently be seen that the mass of the leucocyte be- comes proportionately smaller as the ex- ternal bud of protoplasm grows larger. (Fig. 14.) The conditions are gradually reversed, the nuclei of the cell appear outside, and only a small mass of proto- plasm remains within the vessel, until finally the entire leucocyte is in the tissue outside of the vessel and is free to wander in any direction. The me- chanical part of this process is not yet understood. It is claimed by some that small openings exist in the walls of the vessels between the endothelial cells which line them, to which is given the name of stomata. These openings are ordinarily invisible, but they are said to enlarge under the effect of the dilatation of the vessels and of the alterations in their walls produced by the inflammatory reaction, and that the leucocytes escape through these openings. Others (Metchnikoff) assert that the endothelial cells themselves possess the power of amoeboid move- 2 Emigration of leucocytes, The arrow shows di-