VARICOSE ANEURISM. 351 vein. This condition most commonly results from simultaneous wounding of the vein and the artery, resulting from stab or gunshot wounds : very rarely it is congenital. This affection was formerly often seen at the elbow, resulting from puncture of the artery and vein by the lancet in bleeding, when this procedure was very generally practised. It has also been ob- served in vessels of the head, neck, axilla, abdomen, and thigh. As the pressure of the blood is greater in the artery than in the vein, the blood is forced into the vein, and causes its dilatation near the seat of communica- tion, as well as dilatation of the vein to the distal side of the wound by obstruction of the free return of the venous blood. Symptoms.—This condition is marked by an ill-defined or oblong compressible tumor with expansile pulsation, thrill, and bruit; the latter is characterized by a peculiar purring or buzzing sound, which closely re- sembles that produced by a fly confined in a paper bag. The bruit, thrill, and pulsation are transmitted for some distance along the distended veins. If the part containing the varix is raised, the pulsation becomes weaker and the tumor shrinks; if the part is lowered, the tumor increases in size and the pulsation becomes more apparent. If the artery is compressed sufficiently to shut off its current, the pulsation ceases and the tumor dis- appears. The patient often complains of pain in the tumor and of a sense of numbness in the parts below. If the venous return is much obstructed, the parts below become oedematous. Treatment.—In many cases the tumor does not increase in size, and causes the patient so little inconvenience that it is necessary only to wear a compress or an elastic bandage over it. If, however, pain is a prominent symptom, or if there is marked obstruction to the return of the venous blood, as shown by oederna and ulceration of the parts below, operative interfer- ence is demanded. This consists in the application of two ligatures to the artery, one above and one below the seat of the vascular communication. Varicose Aneurism.—In this affection there is a communication be- tween an artery and a vein through an interposed aneurismal sac. This form of arterio-venous aneurism results from stab, punctured, or gunshot- wounds of an artery and a vein, a circumscribed aneurism forming be- tween the artery and the vein, and communicating with both. A vari- cose aneurism may develop from an aneurisnial varix if the tissues uniting Fig. 270. the vessels yield slowly. The veins become dilated and thickened, as in the case of varicose veins. (Fig. 270.) Symptoms.—The symptoms are those of aneurismal varix, with the addition of those of aneurism. Pul- sation, thrill, and a buzzing sound are present, and in addition a soft aneurismal bruit can often be distinguished. If the circulation in the artery is arrested, the vein collapses, and the outline of the aneurism can often be made out as a firm tumor.