LIGATION OF THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 394 artery is found, with a vein on either side of it, and the anterior tibial nerve externally. The needle should be passed from without inward after isolating the veins. Ligation of the Anterior Tibial Artery at its Middle Third — An incision three inches in length should be made in the same line as that for the upper portion of the vessel. The skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia being divided, the interspace between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum muscles is opened, and a third muscle comes into view, the extensor proprius pollicis ; the artery lies between the extensor proprius pollicis and the tibialis anticus, and the anterior tibial nerve is to the outer side. The veins should be isolated, and the needle passed from without, inward. Ligation of the Anterior Tibial Artery in its Lower Third — The artery is exposed by an incision two inches in length on the line of the artery, beginning three inches above the ankle-joint. The skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia having been divided, the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis muscle, the second tendon from the tibia, should be sought for. The artery is found in the interspace between the extensor proprius pollicis tendon and the tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, the an- terior tibial nerve being to the outer side. The veins being isolated from the artery, the needle should be passed from without inward. Ligation of the Dorsalis Pedis Artery.—An incision one inch in length should be made on a line drawn from the middle of the anterior intermalleolar space to a point midway between the extremities of the first two metatarsal bones, or an incision may be made along the outer border of the extensor proprius pollicis. The skin and the superficial and deep fasciae having been divided, the artery will be found lying inside of the inner tendon of the short extensor of the toes; the nerve is to the outer side. After separating the veins, the needle should be passed from without inward. Ligation of the Posterior Tibial Artery.—The posterior tibial artery begins at the lower border of the popliteus muscle and runs down the back part of the leg, crossing as it descends to the tibial side. In its descent the artery rests upon the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digi- torum muscles. The course of the artery is indicated by a line drawn from the middle of the popliteal space to a point midway between the tendo Achillis and the internal malleolus of the tibia. The posterior tibial artery may be ligated iu its upper, middle, or lower third. Ligation of the Posterior Tibial Artery at its Upper Third.— An incision three and a half inches in length should be made half an inch from the inner edge of the tibia, beginning two inches below the head of the bone. (Fig. 301.) The skin and superficial fascia being divided, care being taken to avoid large superficial veins, the deep fascia is opened, and the origin of the soleus muscle is detached from the tibia; upon raising it, its under surface will present a white, shining sheath of tendi- nous material, beneath which will be seen a layer of fascia covering the tibialis posticus muscle. If search be made towards the middle of the leg,