703 GUNSHOT FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. supposed from the slight injury found on the outside of the skull. All foreign bodies must be carefully removed, the edges of the bone being chis- elled away if necessary to release them. Fractures of the Base.—The treatment of fractures of the base is symp- tomatic, with the exception of maintaining the ear and nose in as aseptic a condition as possible, for infection froin these cavities is one of the prin- cipal dangers of such fractures. The ear should be thoroughly wiped out with moist cotton, and the parts examined with the speculum. No irriga- tion should be employed, because of the possibility of carrying infection into the fissures. The canal should be carefully stuffed with iodoform gauze or sterilized cotton. The nose should be cleansed by the spray and with moist cotton, and irrigation avoided for the same reason. Punctured frac- tures of the orbit must be thoroughly explored, the soft parts being incised and the orbital ridge trephined if necessary to gain access to the base of the brain. In fracture of the base involving any of the air-containing cavities, such as the nose or the frontal sinuses, the occurrence of emphysema or pneuma- tocele should be avoided by preventing strong expiratory efforts on the part of the patient, especially sneezing, and by applying a firm bandage to the head, with a pad over the fissure if it is accessible. Gunshot Fractures of the Skull.—Mechanics.—We have already seen that gunshot wounds of entrance and exit show in the skull the same peculiarity as in the. soft parts—that is, the wound is smaller at the point of entrance than at the point of exit; and this is true whether the ball enters the skull and fractures the external table first or leaves it and penetrates the same table last. Bullets which strike the skull at a tangent may produce very serious internal effects without inflicting much external damage, for there may be merely a groove on the surface of the bone, and yet the in- ternal table may be deeply depressed, the dura separated, and the brain severely contused. The effect produced by a ball depends largely upon its velocity. With the older fire-arms a velocity of two hundred metres per second was obtained, and this was sufficient to produce sharply cut open- ings in the skull without any Assuring. With the modern weapons, how- ever, in which a velocity of from three hundred to four hundred metres per second is attained, very peculiar effects are produced, resembling those which would follow an explosion taking place within the skull, the fissures extending in all directions from the points of entrance and exit, and the brain-matter being forced out of these openings. The generally accepted theory is that these effects are caused by hydro^ static pressure. For the purposes of experiment the contents of the skull may be considered fluid. If one of these high-velocity bullets is fired into a sealed metal can completely filled with fluid, as the fluid is incompressible and the ball enters so suddenly as to give no opportunity for the can to alter its shape or increase its capacity in any way, the sudden addition of the bul- let to the contents of the can has the same effect as if an explosive had been discharged within the latter, and it is blown to pieces. A similar explosive effect takes place in the skull when full of brain or fluid ; and it has also been observed in such organs as the liver, in which a mass of soft tissue is en-