195 POULTICES. sion may result. This dressing is usually reinforced by the application of a firmly applied spiral reversed or spica bandage of the leg. Strapping of ulcers may also be accomplished by using two strips which are fastened to the skin at some distance from the edges of the ulcer ; traction is made upon them, and they are made to cross obliquely over the ulcer ; additional strips are applied in this manner until the surface of the ulcer is covered. The strapping of chronic ulcers of the leg will be found a most satisfactory dressing in patients who have to work during the course of treatment, the strips requiring removal only at intervals of a week, and if well applied the dressing is generally a comfortable one to the patient. Strapping of Joints.—In strapping joints, strips of resin or rubber adhesive plaster, from one to one and a half inches in width and long enough to extend two-thirds around the joint, are required. The first strip is applied a few inches below the joint, and strips are then applied over this, each strip covering in two-thirds of the preceding one, until the joint is covered in and the dressing extends a few inches above it. Strapping of joints will be found a satisfactory dressing in the treatment of sprains of joints in their acute or chronic stages. POULTICES. This form of application was formerly much used in the treatment of inflammatory conditions and injuries, and, although it is seldom employed since the introduction of the antiseptic method of wound treatment, we think there are still conditions in which its employment is both useful and judi- cious. Poultices may be used with advantage in deep-seated inflammatory affections of the fascia and bone, combined with rest, and often relieve the pain by producing relaxation of the tissues. Their previous use does not prevent the surgeon from employing all aseptic precautions if operative treatment is subsequently required. Flaxseed Poultice.—This poultice is prepared by mixing a little cold water with ground flaxseed and then adding boiling water and stirring it until the resulting mixture is of the consistency of thick mush. A piece of muslin, a little larger than the intended poidtice, is laid upon the surface of a table and the poultice mass is spread evenly upon it with a spatula or knife, to the thickness of from one-fourth to one-half inch ; a margin of the muslin of one or one and a half inches is left, which is turned over after the poultice is spread, and serves to prevent its escape around the edges when applied. After being applied to the surface of the skin it is covered with a piece of oiled silk, rubber tissue, or waxed paper, and is held in position by a bandage or a binder. Charcoal Poultice.—This poultice is prepared by mixing flaxseed- nieal and powdered animal charcoal in equal parts and adding boiling water until a poultice mass is produced, which is spread upon muslin as pre- viously described. Fermenting Poultice.—This poultice is prepared by adding two tablespoonfuls of yeast to a mixture of flaxseed with hot water, making a thin poultice mass, which is allowed to stand for a few hours in a warm place, when it ferments and becomes light; it is then spread upon muslin