162 BICHLORIDE OF MERCURY. Heat.—Heat, either dry or moist, is the most reliable and most uni- versally valuable agent for the destruction of micro-organisms. Many forms of bacteria are rendered inert by a temperature of 140° F. (60° C), and no organisms can withstand a continued application of moist heat reaching 212° F. (100° C). As moist heat is the most efficient sterilizer, it should be preferred; boiling instruments and dressings for a few minutes will completely sterilize them. Steam sterilizers may also be employed for this purpose. (Fig. 90.) Sterilization may also be satisfac- torily accomplished by the employ- ment of dry heat, the dressings being baked for half an hour in a hot oven or being placed in a dry sterilizer. An improvised sterilizer may be made by having a perforated metal stand placed inside of a large kettle so that only the steam comes in contact with the instruments and dressings. Bichloride of Mercury.-This is employed as an antiseptic in watery solutions varying in strength from 1 to 500 to 1 to 10,000. A solution of 1 to 1000 is used for disinfection of the hands and skin, and a 1 to 2000 to 1 to 4000 solution is generally employed for the irrigation of wounds. In using bichloride solution the surgeon should watch the patient carefully for symptoms of poisoning through the absorption of the drug, which are generally manifested by vomiting, fetid breath, salivation, inflammation of the gums, diarrhoea, and blood-stained stools. It will be found conve- nient to have a concentrated solution of bichloride in alcohol, one part of the bichloride to ten parts of alcohol; to this should be added one teaspoonml of common salt, which prevents the disintegration of the mercuric com- pound. A ten per cent, bichloride solution may be made as follows: bichloride of mercury, 2 parts ; sodium chloride, 1 part; dilute acetic acid, 1 part; water, 16 parts. By adding water in proper quantity a 1 to 1000 or 1 to 2000 solution may be made. A tartaric acid solution of bichloride is also prepared as follows : hydrarg. chlor. corrosiv., gr. xv ; acid, tartaric, gr. lxxv ; aquae dest., Oij. In private practice the most convenient method of making bichloride solution is by the use of bichloride pellets, which contain a definite amount of bichloride of mercury, mixed with a few grains of common salt. These are dissolved in the requisite amount of water to make a solution of the strength desired. Carbolic Acid.—Carbolic acid was the first antiseptic recommended and used by Lister, and was popular as an antiseptic until it was found that bichloride of mercury possessed more decided germicidal action. This drug is employed in watery solutions 1 to 20 or 1 to 60. A 1 to 20 solution is usually employed for the sterilization of instruments, the latter being allowed to remain in the solution for thirty minutes before being used: a Fig. 90. Steam sterilizer.