INFECTIVE ARTHRITIS. G01 Acute Septic Arthritis.—Abscess of a Joint.—This affection may result from a penetrating wound of a joint, the pyogenic organisms gaining access to the joint through the wound, or in cases of osteomyelitis by exten- sion of the infective process through the articular ends of the bone or periarticular structures, or in patients suffering from pyaemia through the infection of the synovial membrane by the micro-organisms in the blood. An extra-articular abscess may also rupture into a joint and cause this affec- tion. The pathological lesions consist in exudation into the synovial sac, the subsynovial connective tissue, and the capsule and ligaments of the joint, and the free formation of pus. The articular cartilages become softened and broken down, or may be separated in masses from the bone. The ligaments may also become softened and eroded, so as to permit of undue motion or displacement of the bones. Symptoms.—The joint becomes swollen and painful, the pain being increased by motion and being worse at night. The skin becomes hot, red, and cedematous, fluctuation may be obtained, and intra-articular tension is shown by flexion of the joint. Constitutional symptoms are manifested by a chill or chilliness; fever is present, the temperature often being as high as 104° to 106° F. (40° to 41° 0.) ; the pulse becomes rapid, the patient presents the constitutional symptoms of septic intoxication, and death may result in three or four days from septieseniia. In cases of septic arthritis due to pyaemia the swelling of the joint is preceded by the constitutional symptoms of pya?niia ; there may be no pain, and swelling of the joints may be the most prominent symptom. A number of joints are usually involved. Septic arthritis is a very serious affection, and if not promptly treated is apt to terminate fatally in a few days. Treatment.—This consists in making free incisions into the joint, fol- lowed by thorough disinfection of the joint-cavity. This is best accom- plished by antiseptic irrigation with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution and the introduction of drainage-tubes. A copious antiseptic gauze dressing should next be applied, and the joint immobilized by the application of a splint. After disinfection and free drainage of the joint have been accomplished, the constitutional disturbance usually subsides rapidly, and the discharge from the joint gradually diminishes. If the joint has been opened early, recovery with more or less restoration of function may take place. In other cases, where extensive disorganization of the joint has occurred, sinuses may persist, and necrosis or caries of the articular ends of the bones, with relaxation of the ligaments, may be present. In such instances the joint is useless, and an arthrectomy or excision may be required, and rarely amputa- tion is called for. In pyoemic cases the prognosis is not so favorable, as the patient often succumbs to the septic infection ; but even in these incision and drainage of the joints are sometimes followed by recovery. Infective Arthritis.—This disease, which presents many points in common with septic arthritis, may arise in the course of acute infective diseases, such as erysipelas, scarlet fever, measles, and small-pox, and is due to infection of the joint by pyogenic cocci or by the specific micro- organisms of the particular disease. In this form of arthritis the joint affection arises from the infection of the synovial membranes by pyogenic or