1112 NEUROSES OF THE BLADDER. by the speculum, fully distending that organ. The urine is withdrawn by a tube with a suction bulb, and then the greater part of the interior of the bladder can be illuminated by a forehead mirror and easily inspected. The mouths of the ureters can be seen and bougies or catheters readily inserted for exploration or to collect the urine. General anaesthesia is advisable, although not essential. The Nitze-Leiter cystoscope can be used in either sex, and consists of a hollow tube bent at an obtuse angle at the end, forming a short beak. At the point of the instrument is fixed a small incandescent electric light, the wires of which run through the shaft of the instrument, and at the angle is situated a glass prism which receives the rays of light coming from the illuminated bladder and reflects them up the shaft of the instrument to pass through a system of lenses which admit of accurate focussing. The bladder is filled with sterilized normal salt solution, the instrument lubri- cated with glycerin and introduced, the current turned on, and the observer then studies the interior of the bladder through the lenses. If there is much bleeding from the interior of the bladder the period of observation will be short, as the instrument must be withdrawn and the bladder washed out. A similar instrument has been invented by Caspar, which contains a groove on one side of the shaft through which a fine bougie can be passed, the end of which turns up at the beak of the instrument into the field of vision. The mouth of the ureter can be found by the surgeon, and the bougie then projected into the field of vision and guided directly into the opening. It can then be detached from the shaft of the instrument and passed as far as necessary into the ureter, and the urine from the kidney of that side col- lected for examination. Even without this instrument the cystoscope gives valuable information as to the quantity of urine passed relatively by the two kidneys, and also whether it contains pus or blood, as the urine can be seen flowing from the ureter. Neuroses.—The cases formerly considered neuralgia of the bladder have been gradually distributed under the different lesions which cause the pain as our means of diagnosis have improved, and the affection is no longer recognized as an independent disease except in rare cases. Spasm may occur either in the detrusor or in the sphincter muscles, and occasionally in both at once. Spasm of the muscles of the vesical wall is usually known as tenesmus, and is the result of intense irritation of the mucous membrane by inflammation, by the presence of a calculus, a foreign body, or a parasite, or by certain drugs, such as cautharides. The patient is constantly passing small quantities of water, and the bladder is kept empty, unless spasmodic contraction of the sphincter is also present, when there may be retention. There is great pain in the pelvis running down to the glans penis. Spasm of the sphincter alone is marked by retention of urine, and the contraction may be so close as to prevent the introduction of a filiform bougie. Pain is present only when efforts are made to evacuate the bladder. Treatment consists in thorough stretching of the sphincter by the passage of large sounds, but the cause of the spasm should be first sought for and removed. Opiates are useful for tenesmus, especially a sup- pository of opium and belladonna, aa gr. ss to gr. i.