HAMMER-TOE. 077 Fig. 619. Hammer-Toe.—This is a not uncommon affection, in which the proxi- mal phalangeal joint of the toe is permanently flexed and the distal joint is hyper-extended, the deformity being caused by shortening of the lower fibres of the lateral ligaments. The second toe is the one most commonly affected (Fig. 619), although other toes may be involved; the affection may also be symmetrical. The deformity is commonly seen in children and young adults, and probably arises from unusual length of the affected toe, whose extremity is pressed backward by the boot, and gives rise to perma- nent flexion and hyper-extension as above described. The deformity is very marked, and causes great pain and dis- comfort, as corns are apt to form on the extremity of the toe and upon the summit of the projection. Treatment.—Subcutaneous section of the contracted tissues is usually followed by temporary relief only, and the deformity soon recurs : so that the radical treatment con- sists in amputation of the toe at the metatarso-phalangeal joint or in excision of the proximal phalangeal joint. Am- putation is often practised with good results, but in the case of the second toe may be followed by the development of hallux valgus from want of lateral support to the great toe, so that in this toe excision should be preferred. In excising the joint enough bone should be removed to allow the toe to be brought into a straight position. The wound should be dressed with a gauze dressing, and a narrow strip of binders' board incorporated in the dressing to keep the toe in a straight position, and worn until union of the bones has occurred, which usually takes place in two or three weeks. A somewhat similar con* dition in the great toe, known as hallux flexus, is occasionally seen. The treatment of this condition consists in manipulation and the use of properly fitting shoes, and if this is not fol- lowed by improvement, the head of the proximal pha- lanx, or the head of the metatarsal bone, should be ex- cised, which will usually correct the deformity. Hallux Valgus.—This deformity consists in ab- duction of the great toe at the inetatarso-phalangeal joint, with marked enlargement of the head of the first metatarsal bone by osteophytic growths, caused by a chronic osteo-arthritis. (Fig. 620.) The distal phalanx may rest upon or pass under the second toe, and a bursa or bunion is usually present between the skin and the bone, which becomes inflamed from pressure of the shoe and causes great pain and disability. Treatment.— When the deformity is slight, the wearing of properly shaped shoes may prevent the subsecpient development of the condition to one of marked deformity or discom- fort. The use of a properly fitting splint may also be followed by good results. In severe cases the best results are obtained by excision of the head of the metatarsal bone and of any bony outgrowths Hammer-toe. Fig. 620. Hallux valgus.