EXAMINATION OF THE URETHRA. 1077 temperature may reach 105° F. (40.5° C.) or 106° F. (41° C), but usually promptly subsides. This chill and rise of temperature follow every pas- sage of urine over the wounded canal or the introduction of any instrument. The chill may be prevented or controlled by the administration of quinine, ten or fifteen grains being given at a dose an hour before the instrumen- tation or micturition is expected ; and also by the administration of salol, which is excreted by the kidneys and partially sterilizes the urine. These symptoms are known as urethral fever, and were formerly very frequent in all urethral surgery, and supposed to be of nervous origin. They are probably due to the absorption of toxines produced by bacterial growth within the canal. If the condition lasts for any length of time a true septic fever is established, with irregular exacerbations, purulent urethritis or cystitis, secondary pyelitis, and general septicaemia or pyaemia. Sterilization of Instruments and of the Urethra.—Metal and rubber instruments may be sterilized by boiling, although the rubber is injured by prolonged or repeated boiling, but the gum instruments should be carefully washed with soft soap, and then laid for fifteen or twenty minutes in a 1 to 1000 solution of bichloride of mercury, and again carefully rinsed in steril- ized water before they are introduced. In cleansing catheters a strong stream of water should be driven through the instrument, and the catheters should be filled with the bichloride solution and left to soak in it for half an hour or an hour. The urethra should be irrigated with some antiseptic solution, such as the boro-salicylic solution. Some surgeons prefer bichloride of mer- cury in a solution of 1 to 5000, but this is often painful and irritating. In spite of every care there will often be some infectious matter retained behind the stricture, and infection from this source is not uncommon. The patient should be directed to pass water before the examination, if possible, in order to wash out the urethra behind the stricture. For lubrication any sterilized medium, such as vaseline, glycerin, or boro- glyceride, may be employed, but sweet oil is the best in cases of narrow stric- ture. These substances are sterilized by heat, for it has been proved that oil and vaseline cannot be sterilized by the addition of carbolic acid even in large quantity. The lubricant is rubbed upon the instrument with the ster- ilized finger, or the sweet oil may be injected into the urethra, the latter procedure being useful in tight strictures. If applications are to be made to the canal, glycerin should be employed, as the oil would protect the mucous membrane. The metal sounds should be warmed before introduction. Instruments for Examination.—The instruments used in the examina- tion of the urethra may be flexible or stiff, the former being less likely to do injury, and the latter, when made of metal, being easier to render aseptic. For sizes under 12 French, flexible instruments should be employed, and over that size the metal sounds are more convenient. Solid instruments, called bougies or sounds, are used for examination, and hollow bougies, or catheters, for drawing off the urine. These instruments are made in various sizes, which are known by certain numbers, but three different scales are in use to designate them, the American, English, and French, or Charriere. The numbers of the American scale give the diameter of the sound in half millimetres, while the English scale is purely arbitrary. The French or