998 CHAPTER XXXV. SURGERY OP THE ANUS AND THE RECTUM. Wounds of the Anus and the Rectum.—Wounds of the anus and the rectum are comparatively rare accidents, by reason of the protected position of these parts, but may occur from bodies thrust into the anus or through the skin of this region, or from pins, needles, pieces of glass, shell, bone, or other hard substance which have been swallowed and injure the anus or rectum in their passage from the body. Gunshot wounds and frag- ments of bone in fractures of the pelvis may involve the rectum or the anus secondarily. Incised wounds, except those made intentionally by the sur- geon in operations upon these parts, or accidentally in the operation of lithotomy, are rarely seen, while lacerated wounds occurring during par- turition are not uncommon. Injuries of the rectum caused by foreign bodies thrust through the anus, such as a piece of wood, a prong of a hay- fork, a tooth of a rake, or the nozzle of an enema syringe, may produce extensive laceration and perforation of the rectum, aud even open the peritoneal cavity and wound the intestines. These injuries are always most serious, and are apt to result in septic cellulitis of the pelvic con- nective tissue or in septic peritonitis, either of which conditions is likely to be followed by a fatal result. When the rectum is injured by a hard or sharp substance which has been swallowed, a localized ulceration of the rectum may result, or, if perforation has occurred, abscess and fistula may follow. Wounds of the rectum resulting from gunshot, injuries, as well as those occurring from the fragments in fracture of the pelvic bones, are grave injuries, and are liable to be followed by septic cellulitis or peritonitis, or by the development of abscess and fistula. Prognosis.—In wounds of the rectum the prognosis depends largely upon the thoroughness of the drainage. In incised wounds made inten- tionally by the surgeon in which the drainage is free the prognosis is favor- able ; in extensive lacerated wounds in which the rectum, anus, and surround- ing skin are torn, as free drainage is established a favorable termination is not unusual; while punctured rectal wounds, in which there is poor drainage, are very unfavorable, as they are apt to be followed by extravasation of feces, cellulitis, abscess, and grave septic complications. Treatment.—The wound and the surrounding parts having been thor- oughly sterilized, the wound should be closed first by a layer of deep sutures of silk or catgut, and later by superficial sutures, care being taken to bring together the ends of the divided sphincter muscle. If it is found that the surfaces cannot be accurately brought together, a drainage-tube should be introduced before applying the sutures. The same treatment is