ANOMALOUS DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 587 Fig. 524. pubic eminence. (Fig. 523.) It is produced by falls upon the foot or upon the knee, when the thigh is thrown behind the perpendicular, or may be produced by violent twists of the limb. Symptoms.—The limb is shortened and abducted, the thigh is flexed, the foot is everted, the head of the bone can be felt in front of the pubis, and the trochanter is not prominent. (Fig. 524.) This form of dislocation is also apt to be confounded with fracture of the neck of the femur. In fracture of the neck of the femur there are crepitus and mobility ; the thigh is not flexed nor abducted. In pubic dislocation there are absence of crepitus, immobility, abduction and flexion of the thigh, and the head of the bone can be felt in front of the pubis. Treatment.—The leg should be flexed on the thigh, and the thigh on the pelvis, to its fullest extent, so that it shall be brought in contact with the abdomen, which manipulation relaxes the ilio-femoral ligament and dis- lodges the head of the bone from the pubis. Then after making internal rotation and adduction the limb should be brought down, inclined towards the sound side. Allis, in the reduction of anterior or inward disloca- tions, recommends flexing the thigh, then adducting it, carrying the knee obliquely inward and downward, and then rotating outward. Deformity in pubic dislo- cation of the femur. Anomalous Dislocations of the Hip.—As before stated, anomalous or atypical dislocations are likely to result where both branches of the ilio-femoral or Y ligament have been ruptured. In these the head of the bone assumes a number of different positions. Anomalous dislocations of the hip are classified as those which occupy a position above the level of the acetabulum, upward, and those below the level of the acetabulum, either downward or forward, subpubic. Dislocations of the Hip directly Upward (Supracotyloid).—In this dislocation the head of the bone is displaced upward, and rests a little to the side of the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Reduction is effected by flexion and abduction of the limb. Dislocation Downward upon the Tuberosity of the Ischium.— This dislocation is rare. The limb is flexed, and may be somewhat abducted and everted. Reduction is usually accomplished without much difficulty by traction and flexion. After-Treatment of Dislocation of the Hip.—After reduction of dislocations of the femur it is usually well to apply a sand-bag to the outer side of the limb, or to secure the limbs together by a bandage, and the patient should be kept in bed and not allowed to use the limb for two or three weeks, until a sufficient time has elapsed to have the rent in the capsular ligament firmly healed. Complications in Dislocations of the Hip.—Dislocations of the hip may be complicated by fracture of the lip of the acetabulum, which renders the reproduction of the dislocation likely after reduction. Fracture of the