1186 VAGINISMUS. hernia is made by the irredueibility of the tumor, by the absence of impulse on coughing, and in some cases by its translucency. These cysts may be treated by aspiration and injection with carbolic acid, as in the male, or by extirpation. Occasionally the cysts communicate with the peritoneal cavity, and in such cases the fluid can be pressed back into the abdomen. Varicose veins occur in the vulva, but differ from varicocele in the male, only the superficial veins being affected. They can be cured by multiple ligation or partial extirpation. Vaginismus.—Vaginismus is a spasmodic contraction of the sphincter and even of the muscular fibres of the vagina. It is common in newly married women as the result of the traumatism of beginning intercourse, especially if they are of a neurotic temperament. The spasm in some cases is very violent and painful, and extends to the sphincters of the bladder and rectum, so that evacuation of either organ is accompanied with intense pain. In such cases the slightest touch upon the vulva may initiate the spasm. The spasm is often due to a small ulcer or fissure between the fragments of the hymen, or to hyperesthesia of some of the fragments or carunculae ; in other cases the cause appears to be a neuralgic condition of the nerves of the vestibule. Treatment.—The treatment consists in abstention from sexual intercourse, rest in bed, and then slow and cautious dilatation, beginning with glass plugs small enough to be intro- duced without pain, for if the stretching be carried so far as to cause pain a relapse will be produced. In the worst cases excision of the carunculse must be tried, and in some cases the pudic nerve has been divided with success. The uterus normally lies in a position of slight anteversion, its axis being straight and about at right angles with the axis of the vagina and the fundus just below the upper border of the pubic bones, and separated from it by a slight interval. A full bladder throws it backward, and a distended rectum pushes it forward. The normal uterus is quite movable, and in some persons extremely so, and displacements should be considered pathological only when they are extreme or when they produce symptoms. (Fig. 904.) DISPLACEMENTS OF THE UTERUS. Fig. 904. Fig. 905. Normal mobility of uterus. (Munde.) Retroversion of uterus. (Munde.)