STONE IN THE FEMALE BLADDER. 1109 The after-treatment of litholapaxy and lithotomy consists in rest in bed, thorough irrigation of the bladder two or three times daily, light diet, and diuretics if there is any sign of nephritis. It is useful to administer salol in moderate doses to keep the urine aseptic. Choice of Operation.—The choice of these different methods of treat- ment depends upon the experience of the surgeon, the character of the stone, and the local conditions. Litholapaxy does not confine the patient to bed for so long a period as lithotomy, but requires special experience on the part of the surgeon, and the prolonged operation is a source of danger to an enfeebled patient, for it often lasts two or three hours. Chismore has sought to avoid these dangers by using cocaine, crushing the stone a few times, removing whatever can be obtained by the evacuator, and repeating the operation in a few days. He does not put his patients to bed. Litholapaxy does not as surely guard against a recurrence of the stone as lithotomy, for a fragment may be left in the bladder, which will form the nucleus of another stone. It also fails to provide direct drainage for the inflamed bladder. Litholapaxy should not be attempted if the stone is very hard or large or encysted, or if there is a foul cystitis which requires drainage, or an enlarged prostate which might be treated by operation. A well-marked nephritis is also a counter-indication. For all other cases it is probably the best method. Lithotomy is indicated in the cases not suitable for litholapaxy, although the recent improvements in the suprapubic operation bid fair to make it the rival of the method by crushing in all cases. The other operations are now seldom employed, the median on account of the small size of the open- ing, and the lateral on account of the danger of wounding the rectum or the seminal duct. The bladder is efficiently drained by the suprapubic incision, but some surgeons prefer to add a small perineal incision for drainage in bad cases. To lessen the danger of urinary infiltration, Senn advises doing the suprapubic section in two stages, exposing the bladder at a preliminary operation, and incising it several days later, when the external wound is granulating. Stone in the Female Bladder.—In the female, small stones may be re- moved by dilatation of the urethra with the finger, an enlargement of that canal sufficient to admit the forefinger being possible without permanent paralysis. Larger stones must be removed by litholapaxy or incision. The crushing operation is usually easy, because the stone can often be directed into the grasp of the instrument by the finger introduced into the vagina, and the wide, short urethra allows very large and powerful instruments to be employed. It will often be necessary to compress the urethra around the instruments in order to retain the fluid in the bladder. Cystotomy may be either vaginal or suprapubic. The vaginal incision is made in the median line upon a sound introduced into the bladder, the beak of the sound being turned downward as soon as it passes into the neck of the bladder, and an incision made upon it through the vaginal wall. The opening may be closed at once by sutures when the calculus has been re- moved, inserted as in an operation for vesico vaginal fistula, and primary union is generally obtained. In a child it may be necessary to incise the