AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. 291 Fig. 227. geal joint; it then diverges, passes under the toe, and comes back again to the point of divergence. (Fig. 226.) The bone is then exposed and cut through with bone-cutting forceps and a saw, or is disarticulated at the tarso-metatarsal joint and then lifted up and dissected loose from the tissues. Amputation of the Fifth Metatarsal Bone.—The incision for the removal of the fifth metatarsal bone is made over the bone a little below the tarso-metatarsal articulation, is carried down and curved around the toe, and after the bone is exposed by dissecting back the flaps it is divided or disarticulated, and dissected out. AMPUTATIONS OF THE FOOT. At the present time some surgeons are inclined to think that the utility of partial amputations of the foot is questionable, and consider it a wiser procedure, where an amputation would be required through the tarsal bones, to go above the ankle and amputate the leg, claiming that better functional results follow this operation. We do not consider this opinion a sound one, and think that those surgeons who have had large experience with partial amputations of the foot are convinced that these are better procedures, as shown by the excellent results that follow these operations. In amputating through the foot it has also been advised by Hancock to consider the foot as composed of one bone, and, after having made sufficient flaps, to saw through the bones of the foot, disregarding the articulations. Where it is possible, however, we are inclined to think that the systematic operations through the articulations are better operations, although almost every surgeon has found in actual work that some of these procedures have to be modified by sawing the bones at certain points. In all amputations of the foot involving the tarsus the surgeou should be thoroughly familiar with the anatomy of the foot and the surgical landmarks of the different articulations. (Fig. 227.) We refer to those laid down by Bryant, which are as follows : On the inner side of the foot, not far from the inner malleolus, the tubercle of the scaphoid bone is to be felt (A) as a marked prominence. About half an inch in front of this will be found the articulation with the cuneiform bone (B), and one inch in front of this the joint which the surgeon will have to open in Lisfranc's or Hey's operation (<7). Just above the tubercle of the scaphoid will be found the articula- tion with the astragalus, the line of Chopart's ampu- tation (D). On the outer side of the foot, one inch below the external malleolus, a sharply defined pro- jection will be felt, which is the peroneal tubercle (JE); half an inch in front of this will be found the joint which separates the os calcis from the cuboid (F), this joint form- ing the outer circle of Chopart's amputation. Half an inch in front, or one inch from the tubercle, the prominence of the fifth metatarsal bone is to Surgical landmarks to the articulations of the foot. (Bry- ant.)