TRANSFUSION AND INFUSION. 203 as the surgeon can then better judge as to the constitutional effects of the loss of blood. When a sufficient quantity of blood has been removed, the thumb should be placed over the wounded vein and the bandage removed from the arm above. The wound should be washed with a bichloride solu- tion, and a compress of antiseptic gauze applied over it and held in position by a bandage so applied as to envelop the arm from the fingers to the axilla. The dressing need not be disturbed for five or six days, at the end of which time the wound is usually found to be healed. Venesection is also some- times practised upon the external jugular vein or upon the internal saphenous vein, in cases where the veins at the bend of the elbow cannot be easily found, as often happens in children. TRANSFUSION AND INFUSION. These two procedures are employed respectively to introduce blood or normal salt or saline solution into the body of a patient who suffers from acute ancemia resulting from profuse hemorrhage. Transfusion of blood is now rarely practised, and has been largely superseded by the intravenous injection or infusion of saline solution. Direct Transfusion of Blood.—This is accomplished by making a direct communication between a vein of the person supplying the blood and one of the patient by means of a piece of rubber tubing, to the extremities of which are attached two canuke. T>y introducing the canulse respectively into a vein of the person supplying the blood and one of the patient, the current of blood is diverted from the former to the latter; the amount of blood introduced is regulated by the condition of the patient's pulse. Aveling's apparatus may also be employed for the direct transfusion of blood. Auto-Transfusion of Blood.—Auto-transfusion is a procedure which is recommended in cases of excessive hemorrhage to support a moribund patient until other means of resuscitation can be adopted. It consists in the application of musliu or rubber bandages to the extremities for the purpose of forcing the blood towards the vascular and nervous centres. Intravenous Injection or Infusion of Saline Solution- Clinical experience has proved that the injection of saline solution into the veins is more efficacious in supplying volume to and restoring a rapidly failing circulation than that of human blood, and, as the former can be obtained with much more ease than blood, its use has largely superseded that of the latter. Normal saline solution (0.7 per cent.) is prepared as follows: sodii chloridi, 3iss ; sodii bicarb., gr. xv ; aquae dest., Oij ; or, in eases of emergency, it may be prepared by adding a drachm of salt to a pint of boiled water. The solution should be used at a temperature of about 100° F. In injecting normal salt solution a vein of the patient, preferably at the elbow, should be exposed, and should have placed under it, about half an inch apart, two catgut ligatures; the distal ligature is then tied, and an opening is made into the vein between the ligatures. The canula is next inserted into the opening in the vein, and is secured in position by tying the proximal ligature. Before introducing the canula care should be taken that the canula, tube, and funnel are filled with saline solution, and