688 SEBACEOUS CYSTS OF THE SCALP. parts overlying the bone, especially if there is a contusion or some other injury of the bone. Syphilitic osteomyelitis is seen late in the disease, and frequently forms numerous large gummata beginning under the peri- cranium or in the bone, presenting flattened swellings scattered over the head, occasionally surrounded by a ring of new bone which forms a hyper- ostosis. A common result of syphilitic periostitis or ostitis of the skull is the production of large hard masses of permanent bone upon its surface. Tubercular osteomyelitis of the skull closely resembles the syphilitic form in its clinical appearances. The diagnosis between the two processes is exceedingly difficult, unless aided by the presence of other syphilitic or tuberculous lesions. Treatment.—The treatment of necrosis of the skull consists in freely incising the abscesses, laying open the sinuses, cutting down on the diseased bone, and removing the latter with the curette or the chisel. Occasionally the sequestra are very slow in separating, and the process may last for months, even when the necrosed bone is only as thick as a piece of paper. When the sequestrum is loose it is easily removed, but when it is firmly adherent there is danger that attempts to remove it may cause a phlebitis of the diploe which may spread to the sinuses of the brain or result in pyaemia. But it is also dangerous to allow the sequestrum to remain, because pus is retained under the dead bone and acquires increased infectious power. An excellent method of treating superficial sequestra of large extent which have been in place for a long time and are still ad- herent is to perforate them with a drill at points about a quarter of an inch apart, the numerous openings allowing the granulation-tissue under- neath to spring up so that the sequestrum will be loosened and thrown off. If this is insufficient the sequestrum may be removed by the chisel, but the surrounding bone should be freely cut away also, for its vitality is probably impaired, and it is likely to undergo further necrosis. It is also essential that the exposed bone should be covered with skiu if possible, because otherwise it is liable to further necrosis. Flaps should be slid over the wound, therefore, and secured in place, allowance being made for drainage, or skin-grafting may be done. On account of the danger of acute osteo- myelitis or acute infection of a wound in which the bone is exposed, every precaution should be taken by making free incisions to provide for drain- age, and by keeping the parts as aseptic as possible. The large veins of the diploe communicate almost directly with the venous sinuses of the skull, and a phlebitis of the former may be communicated at once to the sinuses. All these veins are large and widely open, unable to contract, and not easy to block up, so that all the conditions are most favorable for the production of pyaemia, which is exceedingly common. Tumors of the Scalp and Skull.—Sebaceous Cysts.—Among the most common tumors of the head are the sebaceous cysts or wens. They are found of all sizes, on all parts of the head, and often in great numbers. (Fig. 633.) The sacs of adjacent cysts occasionally communicate with each other. They sometimes attain a large size, and we have seen them twice as large as the fist, but they are of very slow growth and require years in order to reach this extreme size. Apart from the fact that they are a deformity