465 FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS. employed to secure the splints, and a few turns of the bandage may be car- ried around and above the elbow to prevent rotation of the forearm. No primary roller should ever be applied in cases of fracture of the bones of the forearm. The use of a primary roller in these cases, with the pressure of the anterior splint against the brachial artery, possibly accounts for the cases of gangrene of the forearm which have occasionally followed these fractures. Care should be taken that the splints are a little wider than the Fig. 379. Dressing for fracture of both bones of the forearm. arm, for if narrow splints be used the lateral pressure of the bandage may tend to force the bones together and thus diminish the interosseous space, and as a result union by callus between the bones may occur and prevent the motions of pronation and supination. The subsequent dressings are made every second or third day, and at the end of four weeks union is usually suffi- ciently firm to permit of the permanent removal of the splints. After three weeks passive motion should be made, pronation and supination of the fore- arm and flexion and extension of the wrist being practised at each dressing. Incomplete or Greenstick Fractures of the Bones of the Forearm.—These fractures are seen in infants and children, and are often accompanied by marked deformity; one bone may be completely broken, while the other is partially broken or bent, or both bones may present in- complete fracture. Treatment.—In the treatment of greenstick fractures of the foiearm, the most important point is to reduce the deformity ; this is accomplished by making pressure upon the bones, and in reducing the deformity the in- complete fracture is generally converted into a complete one. The dressing consists in the application of splints, as in cases of fractures of both bones of the forearm. FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS. Fractures of the radius may occur at any point in its length, but the most common seat is at the lower extremity. Fracture of the Neck of the Radius.—This is a very rare injury. The most prominent sign of this injury is failure of the head of the radius to rotate with the movements of the shaft, and in making these movements, if a fracture exists, crepitus can usually be detected. Treatment.—In the treatment of this fracture the forearm should be flexed, to relax the biceps muscle, and a well-padded anterior angular splint should be applied to the forearm and arm, and held in position by a roller bandage. The dressing should be changed at intervals, and the splint should be removed at the end of four weeks. The plaster of Paris bandage may also 30