RENAL SUPPURATION. 1115 Symptoms.—The symptoms are by no means proportionate to the amount of mobility. A congenital floating kidney may be discovered acci- dentally in any part of the abdomen, having never given rise to any evil effects. On the other hand, even a slight displacement of the kidney, amounting to only one-half its long diameter, may cause very characteristic symptoms, because the ligaments drag upon the duodenum. These symp- toms are nausea, a tendency to vomiting, and distress in the stomach, with some nervous disturbance, and occasionally pain in the back and weakness on exertion. The stomach may be dilated. A floating kidney may cause various symptoms by interfering with the function of other organs by its pressure, especially if it descends into the pelvis. If the pedicle becomes twisted, the ureter will be compressed and the flow of urine interrupted, the retention of the latter being indicated by severe pain on that side, the tumor formed by the distended kidney, and a diminished cpiantity of urine. There may be distention of the intestine in the neighborhood of the affected kidney. The attack usually passes off if the kidney is pushed back in place and the patient kept in bed. The diagnosis between these attacks and impaction of gall-stones with dilated gall-bladder may be very difficult. A floating kidney is subject to all the diseases of the normal kidney, and, owing to the tendency of its displacement to disturb the circulation and the escape of urine, the symptoms are often more severe. Treatment—The treatment of a movable kidney consists in the first place in the application of a broad binder, with a large, somewhat wedge- shaped pad which presses in under the ribs and supports the organ. Before the pad is applied it is well to have the patient remain in bed on his back for some days, in order to allow the kidney to settle back into its proper position. If this treatment fails, the operation of nephrorrhaphy may be performed. Inflammations.—When inflammation attacks the glandular portion of the organ it is called nephritis, and when it is confined to the pelvis it is termed pyelitis. Pyonephrosis is a suppurative inflammation of the pelvis of the kidney with blocking of the ureters, converting the kidney into a pus-sac. Pyonephrosis may result from infection of a hydro nephrosis. Suppurative inflammation of the kidney is the only form which comes under surgical treatment. Renal suppuration may be caused by infection, which travels up the ureter from the bladder, or may reach the organ by way of the blood- vessels. Bacteria are excreted by the kidney with the urine, and, as we have already seen, may occasionally be thrown out without damage to the organ, but usually they form foci of infection. The ordinary pysemic embolism may occur in the kidney and result in multiple metastatic abscesses. The kidney may also be attacked by gonorrhoea! infection ascending through the bladder. Tuberculous infection may take place by the same route or through the blood-vessels. Metastatic abscesses of the kidney are usually multiple, of small size, and occur in both kidneys, so that they are not amenable to treatment. Metastatic abscesses are occasionally single or few in number, and may result in pyonephrosis. An abscess of the kidney may penetrate into the pelvis of the organ, may rupture into the cellular tissue around it, or may perforate the peritoneum and give rise to peritonitis.