1172 OPERATIONS FOR LACERATED PERINEUM. Fig. 885. plete lacerations we have two difficulties to deal with—the restoration of the muscular action of the sphincter ani and the avoidance of infection from the rectum. The split- flap method is the best for closing these lacerations. If the septum is torn high up, it is well to do the operation in two sittings, first closing the rent in the septum down to the sphinc- ter. To unite the sphincter, the parts are put upon the stretch by sharp hooks, and with knife or scissors the septum between the rectum and the vagina is split into two layers for a depth of about half an inch, the incisions running laterally into the remains of the sep- tum as far as they can be recognized. On the sides of the gap all traces of a septum may have disap- peared, leaving a smooth surface passing from one labium majus around the posterior border of the anus to the opposite side. The divided sphincter lies like a transverse band along the posterior margin of the anus, and can often be felt as a soft, rounded border under the skin. The ends are usually marked by a dimple in the skin. If the muscle is stimulated by the sudden application of heat or cold, or by electricity, the fibres will be seen to contract and draw upon the skin at the ends. When these points have been located, the incision through the recto- vaginal septum is to be continued down on each side until the ends of the muscular fibres are freely exposed, and here the ends of the V-shaped incision terminate. A couple of heavy sutures are introduced an eighth of an inch away from the edge of the wound at this point, in order to pick up the ends of the torn muscle on each side, but are left untied. (Fig. 886, ah.) Interrupted sutures of fine silk are then applied to the two edges of the flap of rectal mucous membrane, beginning at the apex of the V, and these edges are united down to the muco cutaneous juncture of the anus. Similar sutures are then applied on the vaginal surface, and after the wound has been closed the heavy sutures through the muscular fibres are tied (Fig. 886, a'b'), bringing the divided muscle together. The same, with the cystoeele suture tied and stitches partly introduced. Diagram of suture of torn sphincter ani: cd, the sphincter; ab, suture in place, its course shown by dotted lines; a'b', the suture when tightened, drawing cd, into the ring dd'.