49 TREATMENT OF ERYSIPELAS. pears, however, to be sufficient reason to believe that astringent applications, such as a strong solution of acetate of aluminum or a twenty-five per cent, ointment of ichthyol, will check the spread of the disease, and even hasten its resolution. Strong antiseptic solutions, such as 1 to 20 car- bolic acid or 1 to 1000 bichloride of mercury, appear to have no greater power over the disease to offset their disadvantages in the way of local irritation and the danger of poisoning. More severe, but uncomplicated, cases are treated upon the general principles of reducing inflammation and by certain special efforts to reach the germs developing in the skin or to limit their spread. The parts may be dressed with strong antiseptic solu- tions, applied either cold or very hot, and the surface of the skin has been scarified by some surgeons in order to obtain increased absorption of the germicide. It cannot be said that the results of this treatment are very much better than those obtained with milder applications, such as those just mentioned. Limiting Compression.—Some success is said to have been achieved by painting the skin a short distance from the advancing edge with con- tractile collodion, so as to obtain a constriction of the tissues as the col- lodion dries which will be sufficient to shut off the vessels and lymph-spaces of the skin, and so hinder mechanically the spread of the disease. Strips of adhesive plaster have also been employed in this way. It is obvious that the most that can be accomplished by such measures is a partial closure of the avenues of infection, and, while the use of the plaster deserves further trial, it must not prevent us from taking more vigorous measures. Scarification.—The best effects of the scarification and germicide appli- cations already spoken of are seen when the treatment is limited to the advancing edge and the healthy skin just beyond it, a zone of scarification about an inch in breadth being made on the healthy skin about half an inch distant from the nearest sign of inflammation. The incisions should be about one-sixth of an inch apart, and should be crossed oblicpuely by another set, making a diamond-pattern. Applications of 1 to 1000 bichlo- ride are made to this belt and to the advancing edge. The necessity for anaesthesia during the scarification is a serious drawback to the method. Parenchymatous Injections.—Some surgeons practise injections of 1 to 20 carbolic acid or 1 to 1000 bichloride of mercury solutions into the skin just beyond the advancing edge, small quantities being injected at each point and a complete line of the injection being drawn across the front of the advancing inflammation. It is said that the treatment is efficacious, but it is very painful, and it is necessary to use dangerous cpiantities of either drug, in most cases, on account of the extent of the disease. The method would seem to be justifiable only in cases in which the disease is limited in extent, but threatens to be very virulent in character. In both these methods there exists some danger of a spread of the disease by the scalpel or by the needle, and every possible precaution must be employed to pre- vent it. General Treatment.—The greatest difficulty to be met, however, is the fact that in the severe cases there is such prostration that the patient has not sufficient strength to bear very vigorous measures of treatment, and the 4