429 SIGNS OF FRACTURE. enee, are deformity, preternatural mobility, loss of function, pain, crepitus, and muscular spasm. Deformity.—This is a sign of fracture which may arise from swelling of the soft parts or displacement of the fragments, and is usually the one which first attracts the attention of the surgeon. In the majority of cases of frac- ture the injured part loses its natural appearance, and this change can usually be clearly seen upon comparing it with the corresponding part on the sound side. The deformity in fracture arises from external force, which drives the fragments into unnatural positions, and from muscular action; in fractures of the long bones, where bony resistance is lost, marked con- traction of the muscles occurs, producing extensive deformity. The de- formity due to swelling may arise early from the extravasation of blood, or later from inflammatory exudates when the process of repair has been estab- lished. Deformity in fracture is recognized by inspection, measurement, and palpation. In taking measurements to ascertain the amount of shortening, corresponding measurements should be made upon the injured and upon the sound side. The various bony prominences are used as fixed points ; in the lower extremity the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the edge of the patella, the condyles of the femur, and the malleoli are frequently used, while in the upper extremity the acromion process, the epicondyles, the olecranon process, and the head of the radius are generally employed. Preternatural Mobility.—This is a very important sign of fracture, which can be obtained except in a few instances. The existence of mobility in the shaft of a bone can be due to no other cause than fracture. In frac- tures very near articulations it is often difficult to separate motion at the seat of fracture from the motion at the joint, and here we have to depend upon other signs. Impaction at the seat of fracture prevents this sign from being elicited. In examining a patient to detect mobility, the manipula- tions should be made with great gentleness, to avoid giving the patient pain, as well as to prevent injury to the surrounding structures by the roughened ends of the fractured bone. Loss of Function.—This is usually a valuable sign of fracture, as there is generally inability to execute the normal movements of the part; a patient suffering from a fractured leg or thigh is not able to support his weight upon it, and the same may be said as to loss of function in the bones of the upper extremity. Occasionally, however, cases are observed in which a patient will walk with a fractured leg in which there is little displacement of the fragments. In these cases it is probable that there has been impaction of the fragments, which keeps up the continuity of the bone. Pain.—The pain in fracture is usually of a severe, sharp character, but it varies much with the bone involved, the character of the fragments, and the amount of movement in the parts after the injury. Muscular Spasm.—This is a valuable sign of fracture, and is produced by irritation of the muscles and nerves by the irregular fragments of the fractured bone. It is intermittent, is accompanied by pain, and is apt to follow slight movements. It is a symptom which is often observed where many of the other signs of fracture are absent, and is especially valuable