623 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF HIP-DISEASE. that in spite of any method of treatment the sinus remains open and con- tinues to discharge for some time ; this will persist as long as any debris is cast off from the diseased bone and cartilages. When the discharge becomes chronic, opening up of the sinuses and curetting them will sometimes be followed by their rapid closure. Operative Treatment of Hip-Disease.—In cases of hip-disease some surgeons recommend early excision of the diseased head and neck of the femur, while others postpone operation upon the bone as long as pos- sible, merely opening and draining abscesses if they form, and depending upon ultimate ankylosis of the joint, which if it be in bad position can be corrected by an osteotomy at a later period. There are, however, many cases of hip-disease which do badly in spite of the most careful treatment; abscesses form, infection occurs, the patients suffer from hectic, and exhaus- tion soon supervenes by reason of the profuse suppuration. In such cases operative treatment must be considered, and a free exposure of the joint and excision of the diseased bone in such cases are often followed by the most satisfactory results. The special method employed in excision of the hip depends upon the time at which the case is seen. Where the bulk of the suppuration is in the gluteal region or the posterior aspect of the thigh, as often happens in long-standing cases, we prefer the posterior incision ; while where abscess forms anteriorly, as is frequently seen in early cases, we prefer the anterior incision. The anterior incision is also to be preferred in cases of early excision, before abscess has occurred or much destruction of the joint-tissues has taken place. The methods of excising the hip-joint, as well as the correction of the deformity following hip-disease, are consid- ered in the chapter upon Excisions. After excision of the hip-joint there is often a remarkable improvement both in the constitutional and in the local condition of the patient; the wound and sinus often heal promptly, and the patient may soon regain fair use of the limb. In other cases sinuses may continue to discharge for some time, new abscesses may form and require opening, and it may be necessary to reopen the wound and remove more diseased bone and infected soft tissues. The most favorable result following excision of the hip is to have a false joint form, allowing more or less motion ; shortening, to a certain extent, will always be present, and can be overcome by the wearing of a high shoe on the affected limb. We have seen so many good functional results follow excision of the hip that we are disposed to recommend the operation in all cases in which the disease runs a rapid course and suppuration is free, in which hectic is well developed, and where the limb is distorted so that it would be useless if ankylosis occurred subsequently. Amputation in Hip-Disease.—In cases of advanced hip-disease in which amyloid changes have occurred in the liver and kidneys, and suppuration is very profuse, or in which, in spite of excision of the joint, suppuration, hectic, and exhaustion continue, amputation of the limb may be required as a life-saving measure, and even in such hopeless cases, with the modern methods of controlling hemorrhage during the operation, a fair number of recoveries take place. Amputation, therefore, should be con- sidered in these cases.