146 DRY GANGRENE. Symptoms. —Typical dry gangrene usually develops in the toes and feet, and the principal symptoms which point to its development are cold- ness, numbness, pain, and tingling in the feet and muscles of the leg. Persons about to be affected with dry gangrene often complain, for months before any local signs of gangrene are apparent, of severe burning pain in the feet at night when warm in bed. A trivial injury, such as a bruise, the friction of the shoe, or the cutting of a corn, may act as the exciting cause of the affection. The part becomes con- gested and gradually assumes a dark purple color, finally becoming black and dry (Pig. 87) : it is insensitive, but the surrounding parts are con- gested and may be the seat of intense pain. The dead part becomes black, shrivelled, and dry, and emits little odor. Dry gangrene usually spreads very slowly : one or two toes may first be involved, and the disease may grad- ually spread to the rest of the foot and the leg. There may be little fever at first, but if a large extent of tissue is involved a certain amount of septic fever develops. During the progress of the disease pain is usually present to a greater or less degree, sometimes being intense ; this is accounted for by the fact that the nerves are usually the last structures to die. During the course of the disease the patient loses much sleep from the continued pain, and he becomes worn out and may die of exhaustion. In dry gangrene there is usually no well-marked attempt at the formation of lines of demarcation and separation, but in some cases, Fig. 88. Fig. 87. Dry gangrene of the feet. (Agnew.) if the amount of tissue involved is small, one or two toes or a part of the foot, for instance, and the patient's strength can be sustained, the line of separation forms, and the dead tissue may be cast off, leaving the bones exposed in the wound. In dry gangrene resulting from thrombosis or em- bolism there is usually a well-marked line of demarcation. (Fig. 88.)