1098 PROSTATECTOMY. It bas been suggested simply to expose and divide both vasa deferentia after ligature under cocaine anaesthesia, tbus avoiding the major operation and tbe necessity of keeping the patients in bed. The results of the latter operation are still on trial, but they promise to rival those of castration, in which case there is no question that it will be the better operation. Before performing either of these operations especial pains shordd be taken to demonstrate that there is no vesical calculus, for the serious error of removing the testicles when the symptoms were due to stone has been made in more than one instance. Drainage.—The prostatic obstruction has been relieved by draining the bladder behind the obstruction. The opening has been made in the perineum and also above the pubes. The latter route is to be preferred, as it is easier for the patient to keep himself dry, and in some cases a sort of sphincteric action has been produced in this opening. The perineal operation is done in the ordinary manner, the urethra being opened upon a staff in the mem- branous portion just anterior to the ligament. Harrison inserts the drainage- tube through a trocar, which is plunged directly through the prostate from the perineum, under the guidance of a finger in the rectum. He claims that the gland often decreases in size after drainage for some weeks. The urine can be drained into a urinal secured to the legs, but the perineal opening is not very satisfactory, except while the patient is in bed. The suprapubic operation is made in the usual way in the median line close to the bone, and the wound is allowed to contract around a catheter held in place by a rubber plate which fastens around the body and has a perforation in the centre just large enough to hold the catheter. A safety-pin through the catheter keeps it at the right depth. The catheter can be closed by a clamp, which is taken off at regular intervals to allow evacuation of the bladder, and the new meatus is generally sufficiently tight around it not to leak until the blad- der becomes distended. It has been suggested to make an opening into the bladder on the same principle as the Witzel method for gastrostomy, by sewing the wall of the organ in a fold over the catheter as it lies in place, and thus obtain a valvular closing of the opening, and a few cases have been reported in which a good mechanical result was obtained. In such cases the opening must be kept patent by the introduction of a catheter at least once in twenty-four hours. Patients have been enabled to resume an active life after the establishment of this suprapubic fistula, and the method is undoubtedly a good one. Prostatectomy.—Finally, there are the radical operations in which the prostate itself is attacked. This has been done through the urethra by the internal application of an instrument like a small lithotrite, or of a galvano- caustic knife. This operation, however, is a blind proceeding, and is very liable to be followed by sepsis or severe hemorrhage. Prostatic growths which project into the bladder may also be reached by the median lithotomy wound if the surgeon have a long finger. But this procedure is also blind, for little idea of the shape and situation of the growths can be obtained, the hemorrhage is not easily controlled, and the manipulations for removing the tumor are very difficult. All these methods of reaching the growths have, therefore, fallen into disuse. The prostate may be reached by suprapubic cystotomy, or through the perineum without opening the bladder.