TUBERCULAR MENINGITIS. 716 is a compound of the two conditions. The symptoms of meningitis may be divided into a stage of excitement and a stage of paralysis. They begin with headache, gradual rise of temperature, hyperesthesia of all the senses, especially tenderness of the scalp and photophobia, with gradually increasing restlessness alternating with fits of drowsiness. The pupils are at first con- tracted and then dilated, being sluggish in either case, and they may be un- equal. A chill is rare, and the pulse remains slow. The drowsiness gives way to delirium, and muscular twitchings succeed, with local and general convulsions. Occasionally a localized paralysis is found, even in the first stage (Von Bergmann), and it may be the first symptom of the disease in meningitis of the convexity, but local paralyses are rare in basal meningitis, because the motor centres are situated at the vertex. The symptoms of the first stage are a combination of compression of the brain by the exudate, and of septic poisoning caused by the absorption of the infectious materials. In the second stage the signs of pressure predominate. The drowsiness in- creases to actual coma. Total paralysis is common in meningitis of the ver- tex, and the sphincters are paralyzed or so relaxed that the feces and urine may be passed unconsciously. Tonic convulsions also occur. The pulse- rate increases and fever appears, being of the continuous type, or with a morning remission, but just before death the temperature may fall. In meningitis of the base there are no local paralyses, but the inflammation is very apt to extend to the cord, the neck becoming stiff, and Oheyne-Stokes respiration appearing on account of the proximity of the inflammation to the respiratory centre in the medulla. The diagnosis of meningitis is not always easy in the first stage, espe- cially if concussion or compression of the brain is also present and we are dependent upon the rise of temperature to guide us, the nerve symptoms being masked by the general depression of the cerebral functions. The diagnosis from pyemia may be made by the absence of chills. Treatment.—The surgical treatment of meningitis is naturally drainage, but it has up to the present been very unsatisfactory because of the adhe- sions. The operative treatment is practically limited to those cases which originate from infected penetrating wounds of the skull and from suppura- tive disease of the ear, and if the diagnosis can be made early enough there is a possibility of recovery. Infected wounds must be thoroughly cleansed, sinuses laid open, and free drainage instituted, any necessary amount of bone being cut away. When the infection originates in ear disease the usual opening into the mastoid is made, and if the lesions found there are not sufficient to account for the symptoms, or if the latter continue in spite of the operation, the groove of the lateral sinus should be inspected, and, if no phlebitis is found, the dura may be opened by cutting away the bone upward and the membranes examined. Tubercular meningitis is the only form of chronic meningitis that is of interest to surgeons. It occasionally forms well-limited foci, giving local- izing symptoms and permitting exact diagnosis and surgical treatment, and, even when the disease is general and marked by considerable serous effusion into the ventricles or on the surface of the brain, good results have been ob- tained by drainage, which relieves the brain of the pressure, at least tempo-