634 CHAPTER XXII. OPERATIONS UPON THE JOINTS AND BONES. EXCISIONS OR EESECTIONS. Excision of a joint implies the partial or complete removal of the articular surfaces of the bones making up the articulation. The term resection is also used as synonymous with excision, but is employed by some authorities to indicate the removal of a portion or the whole of the shaft of one of the long bones. The operation of excision or resection is employed in injuries of bones and joints, such as compound fractures and dislocations, or in the case of unreduced dislocations which render the limb useless or painful. This pro- cedure is also very frequently resorted to in diseases of the joints in which inflammation resulting from pyogenic or specific infection has so seriously disorganized the joint or produced so much deformity that great impair- ment of function results. The operation is also required for the removal of growths, either benign or malignant, which have their origin in the bones. Excision is now widely employed in the treatment of destructive dis- eases of the joints which were formerly treated by amputation, and the former operation should, if possible, always be preferred to the latter. It is, however, not to be recommended in very young patients, as in such cases the injury of the epiphysis is apt to interfere with the subsequent growth of the bone. Excision finds its widest application and its greatest utility in the treat- ment of tuberculous affections of the joints of the extremities ; in these cases by its employment it is often possible to remove the infected tissues and at the same time to preserve a useful limb, and in certain cases to have more or less complete restoration of function in the articulation. The em- ployment of aseptic methods has also of recent years very much increased the field of excision and resection, for by the use of these means it is com- mon to have prompt union in the wounds, whereas before their introduction these operations were often contra-indicated on account of the profuse and prolonged suppuration which followed. The result desired in excision or resection, in addition to the removal of diseased tissues, varies somewhat with the part involved. In excision of the hip, ankle, shoulder, elbow, and wrist we aim to secure fibrous and not bony union of the bone surfaces, so that a movable joint results, while at the knee-joint bony ankylosis gives the best functional result. When the former result is desired, care should be taken not to divide muscles or ten- dons transversely, and as far as possible not to interfere with their attach- ments ; where bony ankylosis is desired, the division of muscles and tendons