OLD DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 577 process of the ulna or the radius, the external condyle is more prominent from the absence of the head of the radius, and the hand is pronated. Treatment.—Reduction of these dislocations consists in grasping the forearm with one hand and the arm with the other and making extension and counter-extension while forcing the humerus and the bones of the fore- arm in opposite directions. Postero lateral dislocations should be treated as posterior dislocations, by bending the front of the elbow around the knee, or by flexion and extension conjoined with lateral pressure. The after-treatment of these dis- locations is similar to that em- ployed in posterior dislocations of the elbow. Subluxation of the Head of the Radius.—This is a form of displacement which is observed in children and usually results from extension by pulling upon the forearm. It is not an uncom- mon accident. We have seen a number of cases, principally in dispensary practice. The arm rests against the side of the body, is partly flexed at the elbow, and is pronated. There is tenderness upon pressure over the head of the radius, and the patient refuses to use the arm. Treatment.— The surgeon seizes the arm with , -..-.n -.t ,1 the bones of the forearm, the bones of the forearm. one hand and the forearm with the (AJter Agnevi ) (After Agnew ) other, and upon making supina- tion a sharp click is heard, and the motions of pronation and supination are restored. No special after-treatment is required. Old Dislocations of the Elbow.—If the attempts at reduction are postponed for a week or longer it may be difficult or impossible to return the bones to their normal position. The patient should be anaesthetized, and, the adhesions being broken up so that the motions of flexion and ex- tension can be freely made, attempts should be made to reduce the disloca- tion by manipulation. If these fail, the dislocation may be allowed to remain unreduced, or if the displacement of the bones is accompanied with pain, or the patient's arm is useless by reason of the limited motion, excision of the elbow may be resorted to, with a view to giving the patient increased motion, although a certain amount of weakness in the arm may result after the operation. Compound Dislocations of the Elbow.—Compound dislocations of the elbow are serious injuries, but if the blood-vessels have not been torn the possibility of saving the limb is good. In the treatment of compound dislocations of the elbow the skin and the wound should be thoroughly ster- 37 Fig. 505. Fig. 506. Outward dislocation of Inward dislocation of