662 POSTERIOR CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. in the recumbent posture and good hygiene are important factors in attain- ing a good result in the treatment of these cases. Self-suspension by the arms from a bar, or suspension by means of a Sayre head-piece, combined with pressure upon the convex side of the curve, are often employed with benefit. As a rule, the use of steel braces or the plaster of Paris or leather jacket is not required, and often if employed does more harm than good, except when used as will be described later. Massage of the weakened spinal muscles is a valuable agent, and-should be combined with systematic exercises. The use of spinal braces is often much abused, but we have seen many cases where they proved valuable agents in the treatment, used in connection with massage and gymnastics and recumbency ; in such cases they should be worn only at short intervals; for instance, in lateral spinal curvature we order the patient systematic gymnastics with massage, and rest upon the back on a firm couch, with the head low, at certain times during the day. If the deformity is marked, we have the patient suspended, and apply a plaster of Paris jacket while in this position, and as soon as it is firm it is split down the front, so that it can be removed ; eyelets are fastened to this, so that it can be reapplied, or we have made froni this cast a leather jacket. This jacket is applied and worn for a few hours each day while the patient is taking out-door exercise, being removed during the gymnastics and while the patient is recumbent. A steel brace may be worn in the same way. Used in this manner, spinal braces may be of great service in the treatment of lateral curvature of the spine, but, as before stated, they are not required in most cases. In cases of lateral curvature due to inequality in the length of the limbs, a high shoe on the short leg will often correct the deformity. In addition to local treatment previously mentioned, good diet, regular meals, tonics, exercise in the fresh air, and a change of climate, when it is possible, are all means which may very materially aid in bringing about a cure of the affection. Posterior Curvature of the Spine (Kyphosis).—This affection is usually seen in young children, and is the result of rickets, or develops in weak and anaemic children who are compelled to sit without proper support to the back. It is often seen in older children in the same class of patients that present lateral curvature of the spine. Kyphosis may also result from occupation : tailors, shoemakers, and other workmen who are employed con- tinuously with the back bent are apt to develop this form of spinal curvature. The condition results from relaxation of the vertebral ligaments and spinal muscles, which is accompanied by separation of the laminae and spinous processes, and in aggravated cases there may be absorption of the intervertebral disks and of a portion of the bodies of the vertebrae, This disease is likely to be confounded with the kyphosis of tuberculous disease of the vertebrae, but may be distinguished from this affection by the facts that in the early stages of the disease there is no rigidity, and that the curve is a general one and does not present an angular projection at one point (see page 547), as is the case in Pott's disease; it is most common in infants and young children, in whom it is due to rickets, and they present other evidences of the disease. When seen in adults it usually