SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 1041 acquired, syphilis. The lesions are due to hyperemia and round-cell infil- tration, are superficial in the early eruptions, taking place in the papillary and Malpighian layers, and in the later stages in the deeper layers of the derm. The eruptions are chronic, developing slowly and lasting a con- siderable time. They develop in successive crops, one coming before the preceding one has disappeared, so that the eruption is often polymorphous from the different manifestations being present simultaneously. They are generally symmetrical in the secondary stages, non inflammatory, and there- fore usually unaccompanied by itching. Their color is at first like that of raw ham, becoming copper-colored as they grow older, and leaving a char- acteristic brown pigmentation of the skin, due to a deposit of blood-pig- ment. The infiltrated cells never organize, but are absorbed or break down and ulcerate. Disappearance without ulceration and scarring is the rule with the early secondary eruptions, while those in the late secondary and tertiary stages may disappear, but often ulcerate, leaving white, shining cicatrices. Ulcerating lesions show thick black or brown laminated crusts, easily detached. Secondary eruptions are generalized and contagious, while tertiary manifestations show a tendency to localization, are not symmet- rical, and are generally non-contagious. The secondary skin eruptions are roseola, papular, pustular, vesicular, and squamous. The ulcerating pus- tular forms, as impetigo rodens, ecthyma, and rupia, are really on the border-line between the secondary and tertiary lesions, partaking of some of the characters of each. Rupia, which is peculiar to syphilis, classified by some as a late secondary and by others as a tertiary phenomenon, starts as a pustule or a bulla, which ulcerates, the secretion drying into a crust, which by the addition of succeeding layers of secretion from the ulcer beneath forms a typical blackish-brown, cone-shaped crust, seated on an ulcerated base. The mucous membranes are very frequently affected in secondary syph- ilis. The sore throat accompanying the earliest eruption is due to erythema, perhaps in company with mucous patches and ulcerations. The mucous patch is peculiar to syphilis, and occurs around the natural orifices and on the skin in situations where it is moist and warm, as under the breasts and on the scrotum. It is due to a modification of the eruption from the nature of the habitat, and histologically consists of an infiltration of round cells into the deeper layers of the epiderm, with in some instances hypertrophy of the papilla? and secondary changes in the epithelium, as thickening and ulceration. Clinically it is a small round or oblong patch of rosy color, generally elevated and covered with a whitish pellicle com- posed of fibrin and small round cells. The secretion is contagious, and is often the source whence infection is derived. The chancre is sometimes transformed directly into a mucous patch in the secondary stage. Super- ficial and deep ulcerations may occur in the secondary stage on the fauces, the palate, the tonsil, and the tongue. Scaly patches, smooth, white, shining spots, covered by adherent scales, are especially common on the inside of the cheek and on the tongue in smokers. They are found late in the secondary and in the tertiary stage. Alopecia is very common in the secondary stage, affecting the hair, eyebrows, beard, etc., but is not per- G6