198 COUNTER-IRRITATION. Spirit of Turpentine.—This drug when applied to the skin is a very active counter-irritant. Its action may be obtained by rubbing it directly upon the surface of the skin, when marked redness results, or when less decided action is desired it may be combined with equal parts of olive oil before it is applied. The turpentine stupe, which is prepared by sprinkling spirit of turpentine over flannel cloths which have been wrung out of hot water, or by dipping them in warm spirit of turpentine, and applying them to the surface of the body, is a method frequently employed to obtain the rubefacient action of spirit of turpentine. Chloroform, mustard, capsicum, and aqua ammonite may also be applied for their rubefacient action. Vesicants.—Vesicants are substances which by their action on the skin cause an effusion of serum or of serum and lymph beneath the cuticle, giving rise to vesicles or blisters. The substance most commonly employed to produce vesication is cantharis, or Spanish fly, which is used in the form either of ceratum cantharidis, which is spread upon adhesive plaster, leaving a margin of half an inch in width uncovered, which will adhere to the skin, or of cantharidcd collodion, several layers of which are painted upon the surface and produce vesication. Aqua ammonia?, chloroform, and nitrate of silver may also be applied so as to produce vesication. Caution should be exercised in applying counter-irritants to patients who are coma- tose or under the influence of a narcotic, for here the sensations of the patients cannot be used as a guide to their removal, and their too long con- tinued application may result in extensive destruction of the tissues. They are also contra-indicated in patients in whom the vitality of the tissues is depressed by adynamic diseases, and in aged persons. Actual Cautery.—This constitutes one of the most powerful means of counter-irritation and revulsion. Counter-irritation by this method is accomplished by bringing in contact with the skin some metallic substance brought to a high degree of temperature. The cautery-irons generally em- ployed have their extremities fashioned in a variety of shapes, and are fixed in handles of wood or other non-conducting material. The irons are heated by placing the extremities in an ordinary fire, or by holding them in the flame of an alcohol lamp, and they should be used at a black or dull red heat. The intense pain which follows the use of the cautery may be allayed by placing upon the cautery marks compresses wrung out of ice-water or saturated with equal parts of lime water and sweet oil. If the ordinary cautery-irons are not at hand, a knitting-needle or iron poker, heated in the flame of a spirit-lamp or in a fire, may be employed with equally satis- factory results. When it is necessary to make a deep burn by the use of the cautery-iron, the pain of its application may be allayed by the injection of a few drops of cocaine solution, or by placing a mixture of salt and cracked ice on the spot to be cauterized for a few minutes immediately before its application. Cautery-irons should not be placed over the skin covering the salient parts of the skeleton or over important organs. Actual cautery is often employed to control hemorrhage or to destroy morbid growths. Paquelin's Thermo-Cautery.—This is a convenient and efficient means of applying cauterization, which utilizes the property of a heated