44 FURUNCLE AND CARBUNCLE. these shcmld not only be made at intervals over the entire area involved, but some of them should cross the advancing edge of the inflammation and extend into the sound tissues for an inch or more in advance of the wave of inflammation. Often these incisions across the advancing margin will at once cut short the further extension of the inflammation. Incisions for this type of cellulitis, when it involves a considerable area or an entire extremity, must be made about two or three inches in length, and not over two inches apart, being arranged in parallel alternating rows, and they must be carried down to the deep fascia. The main veins of the limb should be avoided, and all incisions should be directed parallel to the long axis of the limb. The hemorrhage is naturally free, but unless the patient is feeble it should be allowed to continue, for it relieves the conges- tion at once. It can readily be controlled with gauze packing and a firm bandage if it should seem to be too profuse. The part is theu to be covered with wet dressings, and, if possible, permanent irrigation of all the cavities is to be established. Less severe cellulitis can be treated with poultices, and incision delayed until abscesses form. Furuncle. Carbuncle.—A very superficial pyogenic infection of the skin produces merely an acne pustule, which will be described in the chap- ter devoted to the skin. A boil or furuncle is a pyogenic infection of the sebaceous glands or hair-follicles, or in rare cases of the sweat-glands, which may spread later to the surrounding connective tissue, causing a circular slough, which is extruded through a small opening in the skin at the centre of the inflamed area. It is usually limited to a spot about an inch in diameter. A carbuncle is a similar lesion, in which there is probably more than one point of infection, from which the inflammation spreads and causes rather extensive sloughing of the cellular tissue, the skin being perforated by several of the circular openings and presenting an appearance like a coarse sieve, or as if it had received a charge of bird-shot. Warren asserts that a carbuncle may begin by the infection of a single hair-follicle, working its way downward into the cellular tissue along the column of fat which runs from the latter through the thick derma to every follicle. He thinks it spreads from one cellular interval to another below the skin, and that the peculiar multilocular appearance of the lesion is due to the very dense fibrous tissue which is found between the cellular intervals in those parts of the body in which carbuncle most frequently occurs,—the back and the nape of the neck. (Fig. 21.) A carbuncle may begin as a papule or as a small vesicle sur- rounded by a dark purple ring, when the vesicle dries, leaving a small black spot. Or it may originate from a pustule or furuncle. The induration and dusky redness of the skin spread usually over an area two or three inches in diameter, but may be four times that width or more. The tissues are at first densely hard and brawny, subsequently becoming boggy when the cellular tissue has sloughed. The skin is oedematous and hard, and cir- cular openings result from sloughing in different parts of the infected area. Through these small openings the sloughing tissue must be eliminated by slow degrees unless assisted by incisions. The process rarely penetrates the deep fascia even in very large carbuncles. Both of these forms of in- flammation are found in any part of the skin, but most commonly about the