1199 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE UTERUS. Fig. 914. such cases the peritoneum should be incised high up near the fundus of the tumor, the latter shelled out, and the operation completed extraperitoneally in a manner similar to Kelly's. In any case it is of great assistance to have a bougie introduced into each ureter by Kelly's method of cystoscopy before the laparotomy is begun, for injury to these ducts is one of the chief dangers of the operation. Malignant Tumors.—Both sarcoma and carcinoma are found in the uterus. Sarcoma occurs between thirty and fifty years of age, developing in the submucous tissue or in the uterine wall and forming tumors of con- siderable size, often pedunculated, which bleed very readily, and are rather soft to the touch, although some of these tumors originate from fibromyoma and are hard. Sarcoma is more frequent in the body than in the cervix. The first symptom is profuse hemorrhage, and it is only when the tumor has reached a considerable size that the pain is troublesome. The diagnosis can seldom be made sufficiently early for a radical cure, but the uterus should be extirpated whenever it is movable and the disease appears to be limited to the organ. It is impossible to distinguish between sarcoma and carcinoma except by the microscope. Carcinoma of the uterus is found most commonly in the cervix as an ordinary tubular carcinoma originating in the mucous glands, and more rarely as an epithelioma from the flat epithelium on the surface of the vaginal portion. Scirrhus is very rare in the uterus. Epithelioma begins as a su- perficial, flat induration, which soon forms an ulcer and spreads over the cervix, the latter often being entirely destroyed before its presence is appre- ciated. The surface of the ulcer is covered with brittle granulations, which break down easily under the finger and bleed profusely. The ordinary car- cinoma develops in the interior of the cervix (Fig. 914) or at the fundus, and forms rather large tumors, often pro- truding from the cervix in a cauliflower growth, but sometimes remaining en- tirely within the organ and simply dis- tending it. As the disease progresses it involves the entire organ, attacks the vagina, penetrates the vesical and rectal septa, and sometimes attacks ad- herent coils of intestine. Glandular infection occurs very early. Metastatic deposits are rare, but are more frequently found in the liver and lungs in such cases than elsewhere. Symptoms.—The symptoms of carcinoma of the uterus are a more or less constant discharge of a foul-smelling watery fluid slightly tinged with red, and slight hemorrhages occurring at irregular intervals and often fol- lowing sexual intercourse. The hemorrhages usually do not occur until late in cancer of the cervix, but are an early symptom in that of the corpus. Hemorrhages after the menopause has been duly established are almost in- Cancerof cervix uteri beginning in mucous mem- brane. (Boldt.)