ANGIOMA. 102 or, still more frequently, with fatty tissue, especially iu the substance of the cheek, involving its entire thickness. The diagnosis of these varieties can be made by the fact that the ordinary angioma is entirely compressible, the newly formed tissue in the vascular walls being too thin to make any considerable mass, whereas if there is much fibrous or fatty tissue a tumor of considerable size remains even after compression. While arigiomata oc- casionally develop later in life, the majority of them are congenital. In in- dividuals past middle life small multiple angiomata of the skin are not un- common, although they are, more strictly speaking, telangiectatic spots due to atrophy of the skin. Occurrence.—Angiomata are most frequent in the skin. They are seen in the mucous membranes, where they often assume the form of a papilloma. They occur in the membranes of the brain, especially the pia, and also in the glan- dular organs, such as the liver and kid- neys, being generally well encapsulated in the latter. Three-quarters of the cutaneous angiomata are found upon the head, a large number being on the face. (Fig. 61.) Those in the neigh- borhood of the lips are sometimes con- tinuous with similar changes on the mucous membranes within the mouth. Clinical Appearance.—Although these tumors are, as a rule, only an inch or so in diameter, they sometimes involve an entire limb or half of the trunk, and in these extensive cases all the tissues of the limb are apt to be affected, even the bones showing changes in their blood-vessels. (Fig. 63.) Sometimes the tumors are pedunculated, and this is perhaps more common in the neighborhood of the nose and ear and in the mucous membranes than in other situations. Even when tumors extend deeply, they usually involve the skin also, but in some cases the tumor is entirely below the fascia, and the skin over it is healthy. (Figs. 60 and 62.) The diagnosis is then often impossible, unless the venous blood of the tumor shows a blue tint through the overlying skin. History.—Angiomata are generally observed at birth or soon after. They may remain stationary for years, or may spread slowly or rapidly. Barely they disappear spontaneously. If injured, they bleed profusely and are liable to infection, and the intensity of the infection may cause a slough of all the vascular tissue and result in a cure by cicatrization, but the sloughing of such vascular tissues is not without danger to the patient, as it may give rise to pysemia. While in general these tumors have a benign history, the possibility of extensive growth, hemorrhage, or infection, or the deformity they produce, makes prompt treatment advisable. We have seen one case end in death in a few months from rapid growth of an originally small angioma in which operation was not permitted. The diminished Fig. 61. Angioma of cheek and of chest.