SPONDYLITIS DEFORMANS. 537 tion may have to be repeated a number of times, and may finally be followed by disappearance of the abscess. If the cavity fills rapidly and the skin becomes red, incision, followed by curetting, irrigation, and drainage, with closure of the wound, should be practised. Aspiration of spinal abscess may be followed by the injection of iodoform emulsion and closure of the puncture. We have seen many cases do well under this treatment, but, upon the whole, we consider repeated aspiration the more satisfactory method. Free incision, with curetting of the walls of the abscess when possible, is accompanied by much greater risk than aspiration, and if infection of the wound occurs the danger to the patient is much increased : hence it should be employed only when aspiration is not satisfactory. Spinal abscess in children runs a much more favorable course than in adults. Incision and removal of the tuberculous bone have recently been prac- tised, but the operation is attended with a definite risk to life, and seems to us to be indicated in only a limited number of cases. It is often ex- tremely difficult or even impossible to expose the diseased area, and if a considerable amount of bone is removed with the curette the spinal column may be seriously weakened. In disease of the lower dorsal and lumbar spine, in which an abscess has opened upon the back and profuse discharge is exhausting the patient, we have practised this method of treatment with good results in some cases. The diseased bone should be exposed by incision and thoroughly curetted, and the wound drained. Where a sequestrum is present, which is not often the case, as caries of the bone is much more common than necrosis in tuberculosis of the spine, the operation is fol- lowed by the best results. Contraction of the thigh upon the pelvis from irritation of the psoas muscle usually requires no surgical treatment if good spinal support is furnished; if, however, it persists, weight extension may be applied, or subcutaneous or open section of the contracted structures may be practised. Paralysis due to pressure of tuberculous exudations upon the cord, or to flexion of the cord by reason of the displaced position of the vertebrae, often disappears if the spine is properly supported, or if the patient is kept for a time upon the back, with extension made from the head and feet, or is suspended. Paraplegia from tuberculosis of the spine, although a serious complication, generally tends to a spontaneous cure, the duration of the paralysis usually being about a year. The operation of laminectomy for paralysis following disease of the spine is of service only if the symptoms are due to tuberculous exudations or displaced bone; if there is evidence of secondary involvement of the cord, resulting in acute or chronic myelitis, operative treatment should not be practised. When the conditions for operation exist, the seat of disease should be exposed by incision, and one or more of the posterior vertebral arches removed ; care should be exercised not to open the spinal membranes ; and if the compression is anterior it may be impossible to remove the cause. The operation should not be under- taken until more conservative methods of treatment have been first tried. Spondylitis Deformans, or Osteo-Arthritis of the Spine.— This affection consists in a chronic osteo-arthritis which involves the verte-