COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 709 Symptoms.—The symptoms of compression of the brain vary with the intensity of the pressure and the area of the compressing body. If the compressing body be of small area, the point of a depressed fracture, a small clot, or a small tumor, the size of which is not sufficient to diminish seriously the capacity of the skull, the symptoms may be limited to that part of the brain upon which the tumor or fracture presses. If the point of pressure be over one of the motor centres, a limited paralysis of one limb or of the face may be produced without other symptoms of cerebral compression; but even when the pressure affects the most limited area there is apt to be a little mental dulness and some choked disk. Before the pressure is severe enough to cause paralysis it irritates the centre and causes epileptic convulsions in the muscles connected with it. When the pressure is general over the entire brain, the symptoms vary according to its severity and also according to the rapidity of its production, very serious symptoms being produced by pressure suddenly applied, while the brain appears to grow accustomed to quite severe pressure if applied slowly. Fig. 642. A . B A, normal retina ; B, retina in choked disk. (Bramwell.) In cases in which the compression is suddenly applied, the symptoms begin with a stage of irritation, shown by restlessness, insomnia, delirium, or, rarely, convulsions. Headache gradually develops, and the pulse may be hard and slow, indicating the irritation of the centres of circulation. In the second or paralytic stage the delirium gives way to drowsiness, the pulse is very slow, and may even be reduced to forty beats in the minute, but is hard and full, the face is flushed, and the respiration slow and stertorous. The patient can still be roused, and will answer questions, although slowly and after a considerable interval, and he will be apt to fall asleep in the middle of a word while talking. If the chief point of pressure is well forward over the frontal region, there may be diminished mental power and loss of memory. The pupils are apt to be sluggish, in the first stage contracted, later dilated on one or both sides, but especially on the side where the pressure is exerted. Local convulsions, paralysis, or even hemiplegia are observed, and sometimes the extent of the lesion may be determined by the situation of the paralysis if it be strictly localized. In uncomplicated cases the temperature is normal. The stupor gradually develops into coma, and finally the stage of dissolution appears, in which the slow, full pulse becomes