DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOREARM. 573 dislocations of the head of the humerus the upper arm is usually very markedly atrophied, while the forearm retains its natural size. These dis- locations have not furnished very satisfactory results as regards treatment. One case has been reported in which the humerus was permanently restored to its articulating cavity after repeated manipulations. Erb's paralysis has sometimes been mistaken for this injury. DISLOCATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. Dislocations of the bones of the forearm are most common during early life, and present a number of different displacements: (1) the head of the radius may be dislocated from the humerus ; (2) the ulna may be dislocated from the humerus; (3) both radius and ulna may be dislocated from the humerus ; (4) the inferior extremity of the ulna may be dislocated from the radius. Radio-Humeral Dislocations.—The head of the radius may be detached from the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and be displaced forward, backward, or outward. In these dislocations the lateral and annular liga- ments are torn, and the head of the bone rests in front of, behind, or external to the external condyle of the humerus. Displacement of the head of the radius is not an infrequent accident, and is quite often over- looked. Forward Dislocation of the Head of the Radius.—This is the most common dislocation of the head of the radius, and is usually produced by a fall upon the hand while the latter is in a state of pronation, or by force applied to the side of the elbow. Symptoms.—The radial side of the forearm is shortened and inclined out- ward, and a depression ex- ists immediately below the external condyle of the hu- merus. The head of the radius can be felt in front of the elbow, and may be recognized by placing the thumb upon it and pro- nating and supinating the forearm. (Fig. 499.) The biceps muscle is re- laxed, the forearm cannot be thoroughly extended, and flexion is interfered with by the displaced head of the bone being arrested against the lower portion of the humerus. Treatment.—To reduce this dislocation the forearm should be flexed upon the arm, to relax the biceps muscle, extension being made from the hand and counter-extension from the arm ; the surgeon then presses the head of the bone downward and outward towards the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and at the same time pronates the hand. The displacement can usually be reduced without much difficulty, but is often reproduced upon making flexion or extension of the arm. After reduct ion the arm should be secured in the flexed position by the application of a well-padded anterior angular Fig. 499. Forward dislocation of the head of the radius. (After Agiiew.)