1197 TREATMENT OF FIBROID TUMOR OF THE UTERUS. ligation of the uterine arteries from the vagina, but it is not suitable for large tumors or when the uterus is drawn high up in the abdomen. Myomectomy.—Myomectomy is the name given to the removal of the tumors without ablation of the uterus. It may be performed through the vagina or by a laparotomy, the former being suitable for submucous and the latter for subperitoneal tumors, while the interstitial may be attacked from either direction. Submucous fibroids may be removed by the vagina if the cervical canal is dilated or distensible, and even when rigid it may be incised so as to give access to the growth. The operation consists in dilating the cervix widely, ligating the tumor at its base, and cutting it away. If the point of attachment can be clearly seen, the pedicle may be divided without ligation and a deep stitch taken with a curved needle through the tissues underneath it, in order to control the hemorrhage. Mural fibroids have also been removed by the internal route, by dilating the cervix, splitting the mucous membrane, and shelling out the tumor with the finger or with a serrated spoon. The hemorrhage is apt to be free, but can usually be controlled by a tampon. Tumors of considerable size, how- ever, have been removed through the vagina by morcellement, cutting away small pieces at a time, controlling the hemorrhage meanwhile by the pressure of sponges on handles, or by clamps. It is necessary to detach the cervix from the vagina by a circular incision and then split it on both sides in order to gain access to the cavity for this proceeding. The uterus can be drawn down by volsella set in the lips of the cervix, and tumors removed from the fundus as described. The cavity is then firmly packed and the cervix restored by sutures. Abdominal myomectomy is performed by laparotomy through a median incision, the uterus being brought outside the abdomen and the wound temporarily closed. An elastic band should not be applied, because of the danger of thrombosis and embolism. Pedunculated tumors are treated by a wedge-shaped excision of the base of the pedicle, hemorrhage being controlled by ligatures or deep sutures. Interstitial tumors require an incision through the uterine tissue down to their capsule, and they can then be shelled out. Ligatures and deep sutures arrest the bleeding. Some- times the uterine canal is opened during the operation (hence it should always be given a preliminary curetting), but it can be closed by sutures. If there are many tumors, a number of incisions will be needed for their removal. After the myomectomy the uterus is replaced and the laparotomy wound closed as usual. Hysterectomy.— Vaginal hysterectomy can be employed for fibroids, but is seldom indicated, although recently even large tumors have been removed in this manner, being cut away by morcellement after ligation of the uterine arteries. Abdominal hysterectomy, however, is the operation most frequently performed. The usual antiseptic precautions are to be taken, and the uterus should be thoroughly curetted before the abdomen is opened, and gauze packing inserted in the uterus and vagina. The operation niay be done by a long median incision, the length of which should be in pro- portion to the size of the tumor. The patient is put in the Trendelenburg position, the tumor brought into the incision, and sponges packed around it to hold back the intestines. The operator begins at one side by tying