730 CHAPTER XXV. INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE FACE. INJURIES. Incised wounds of the face bleed freely, but heal very rapidly, leaving, as a rule, smooth scars. Even a small scar of the face should be avoided, on account of the disfigurement it causes, and therefore every incised wound should be rendered aseptic and closed with sutures. Contused and lacerated wounds may also be sutured, for the great vascularity of the skin of the face enables it to live even when severely contused or stripped up in thin flaps. Contusions of the face are marked by the formation of a considerable hsematoma, with oedema, and ecchymosis, especially about the eyelids. Foreign bodies should be carefully removed from the wounds, for wounds of the face are particularly liable to reflex irritation on account of the abundant nerve-supply, and painful scars and even epileptic attacks are not uncommon in consequence of neglected foreign bodies. Occasion- ally a foreign body becomes impacted in the tissues, and the wound refuses to heal until it has been extracted. Wounds of the cheek may involve the parotid duct and result in a salivary fistula. Treatment.—Accurate apposition is important in facial wounds, hence the vermilion border of the lip should be accurately maintained, the carti- lages and the skin of the nose must be carefully brought into place, and sutures should be so placed as to prevent inversion of the thin edges of the eyelid. Very fine silk sutures are to be introduced close together by fine needles, and they should be removed on the fourth day if the wound is aseptic and there is no tension, in order to avoid a scar. Bums of the face are very common, sometimes leaving disfiguring scars, and therefore they should be treated in the stage of granulation by Thiersch's skin-grafts. Plastic operations are frequently necessary on ac- count of the later contraction of these scars, and especially to correct eversion of the eyelids. INFLAMMATIONS. Dermatitis of the face often occasions great oedema of the eyelid, and conjunctivitis is frequently associated with it. Furuncles are especially common on the upper lip and in the nose, especially on the septum. They are serious affections because of the close connection between the facial veins and the sinuses of the brain by way of the veins of the orbit, and if phlebitis begins in the face it may travel backward and involve the brain, with fatal results. Furuncles in this situation therefore should be incised very early, before suppuration occurs. Anthrax is quite common on the face, and many cases of supposed carbuncle are due to this infection.