1033 DIAGNOSIS OF CANCER OF THE RECTUM. looked upon with suspicion, and a rectal examination should be made. Pain is sometimes an early symptom, but may not be marked until the dis- ease is well advanced. It is more apt to be noticed early in the disease, when the anus and the lower portion of the rectum are involved. It may be severe in the later stages of the disease, when the growth presses upon the sacral plexus, and may be confounded with sciatica, or may arise from obstruction of the bowel, in which case it is apt to be paroxysmal and is accompanied with efforts at defecation. Bleeding may exist at any stage of the disease, and is seldom free except in the latter stages of the affection. Its presence shows that ulceration of the growth has taken place, the escape of feces, pus, and blood being a very common symptom. When the disease is well advanced and the sphincter has lost control and the anus is patulous, or when fistulse exist, a thin fetid discharge constantly escapes, soiling the clothing, and produciug often severe irritation of the anal region. Obstruction due to narrowing of the rectum may result from the growth of the neoplasm into the canal or from cicatricial contraction of the wall of the gut. This symptom may appear early in the disease, but is most likely to be a late one, and is not observed in every case. We have seen cases in which the rectum and surrounding tissues and organs were extensively involved and yet obstruction was not marked. Tenesmus and straining are common symptoms as soon as the obstruction occurs. Complete obstruction may exist, and only occasionally results in fecal vomit- ing ; it, however, causes pain and abdominal distention, and may exist for some days, when an escape of thin feces occurs from the rectum, or the obstruction maybe relieved by the formation of a fistulous opening into the vagina, bladder, or rectum, or upon the skin in the anal region. When the obstruction is complete and not relieved, death may result from peritonitis following perforation of the gut at some point above the stricture. In- volvement of the lymphatic glands may occur early in the disease, and is usually very marked. Pressure of the growth upon the iliac vein may cause oedeina of the leg. The duration of the disease is usually from two to three years, but if obstruction is a marked symptom the disease may run a shorter course unless this condition is relieved by surgical interference. Diagnosis.—A careful digital examination should be made in all cases which present any of the symptoms of cancer of the rectum, and in the majority of cases a hard nodnlar mass, a soft growth extending into the rectal canal, or a well-marked stricture can be felt. If a digital examina- tion is made with the patient standing and straining, a growth may be felt by the finger which cannot be reached in the recumbent position. No attempt should be made to force the finger through the narrowed canal to ascertain the extent of the growth, as such a procedure has been followed by perforation of the bowel; the use of bougies for this purpose is accom- panied by even greater danger. At the time of examination the region of the hollow of the sacrum should be examined through the rectal wall for the presence of enlarged glands, and attempts should be made to ascertain if the rectum is movable or is firmly fixed to surrounding structures. Non-malignant stricture, or a tumor pressing upon the rectum, is the condition which is likely to be confounded with cancer of the rectum. In