ATROPHIC SCIRRHUS. 909 infiltrated and dark purple; it then breaks down and an nicer is formed with a red or yellow sloughing base or covered with masses of malignant tissue resembling huge dark-red or pale granulations. Even in this stage the breast may be free from the pectoral muscle. The later symptoms in these two varieties consist in the fixation of the breast on the pectoral mus- cle, the involvement of the glands in the axilla, the appearance of glands in the neck, the extension of the ulceration, and the symptoms caused by secondary growths. Hemorrhage from the ulcers may be very free, but is seldom immediately fatal unless the ulceration has penetrated some of the large axillary vessels. In scirrhus the tumor is rather small, and the affected breast may ap- pear actually smaller than its fellow. It will usually involve most of the breast when first observed, although it may exist merely as a nodule the size of an English walnut. The skin is very adherent, and if the breast is re- duced in size the skin is drawn into deep folds and wrinkled, and the nipple may be retracted out of sight. The glands in the axilla are generally in- volved but slightly. The cut surfaces of the tumor become concave, and it is very crisp on section, even creaking under the knife. The progress of scirrhus is generally marked by some enlargement of the tumor, and the breast may be twice the natural size unless ulceration takes place. The breast becomes adherent to the pectoral muscle comparatively early, and the skin is likely to show patches of epithelial growth. Atrophic scirrhus is a rare form of the disease, in which the breast shrinks away, no tumor being formed. The skin is more or less adherent, the nipple disappears, the entire breast is flattened and shrunken. The glands are involved late, although occa- sionally a large mass of glands will be r found with a very atrophic breast. This form of the disease is, as a rule, very in- sidious in its development, and the breast has almost disappeared before the patient, who is usually advanced in age, recog- nizes that there is anything wrong with it. In some cases ulceration sets in com- paratively early, but usually the same ^ slow progress characterizes the ulceration, which spreads very little into the sur- rounding parts. (Fig. 764.) Dissemination of epithelial growth in the skin is occasionally seen accom- panying scirrhus, or even ordinary carci- noma, but it is most commonly observed in recurrent tumors. Hard patches appear in the skin in the neighborhood of the scar of the previous operation, of a pink or dusky red, often with dilated capillaries visible to the naked eye. These patches are very numerous and gradually appear at distant points, spreading from the scar as a centre. Where the patches are thickest they run together, forming large, flat masses; but, as a rule, in the greater part of their extent they remain discrete. The disease spreads slowly or Scirrhus of breast of seven years' duration.