TREATMENT OF CHANCROIDS. 1051 51, will usually be followed by satisfactory healing of the ulcers. If wet dressings are preferred, the ulcers may be dressed with lint saturated in 1 to 60 carbolic solution, or 1 to 5000 bichloride solution, or in a solution of calomel, gr. x ; lime water, si. Chancroid of the meatus or in the urethra itself should not be cauterized, and healing chancroids, of course, do not require it. Very much inflamed chancroids demand elevation and rest of the part, with the local use of lead water and laudanum. Where the surfaces affected are in contact, as under the prepuce, and on the labia in women, they must be kept separated by lint or cotton covered with an ointment of iodoform or aristol. Cauteriza- tion with nitric acid or the actual cautery is reserved for cases in which the ulcers increase in size and depth in spite of the former treatment, or in which phagedena develops ; here, after drying the surface of the ulcer with absorbent cotton, it may be covered for a few minutes with cotton saturated with a four per cent, solution of cocaine, and after removing this the sur- face should be freely cauterized with nitric acid or with the actual cautery ; the latter agent is the most satisfactory, but is so alarming to the patient that it cannot often be employed unless an anaesthetic is administered. After cauterization, some of the antiseptic dressings previously mentioned should be employed. Chancroids beneath the prepuce, if cauterized, are liable to be attended with much oedema: hence after the application the patient should be kept at rest, if possible, and measures taken to avoid inflam- matory phimosis. Inflammatory Phimosis.—This complication is treated by rest and elevation of the penis, with the external application of lead water and laudanum, and syringing with antiseptics and astringents should be tried. If these fail and there is any doubt as to the extent of the lesion, or if there are signs of threatening gangrene, it is better to slit up the prepuce by a dorsal incision and thoroughly expose the sore. A formal circumcision is generally inadvisable, owing to the liability to infection of the edges of the wound with chancroidal matter, but if the lesion be situated on the margin of the prepuce a V-shaped piece may be excised with advantage. Chancroid of the meatus demands irrigation and an iodoform dressing, and the same measures are useful in case the urethra is infected higher up. Phagedena in any form demands careful attention to the health, tonics and stimulants being used, and opium freely administered to relieve pain. Potassio-tartrate of iron in twenty-grain doses is recommended by Eicord. Locally, thorough curetting, followed by cauterization and the use of iodo- form, and every means to encourage granulation, must be used. Any reap- pearance of the process demands a repetition of the same treatment. If, owing to the patient's condition or the proximity of important structures, as large vessels, the above treatment is inadvisable, the prolonged application of hot water by intermittent or continuous baths, local or general, is of the greatest value, as is spraying of the lesion with hot antiseptic solutions. Bubo.—In the early stage of bubo, rest, pressure, and some form of counter-irritation should be employed. A blister may be applied, or leeches, if the case be seen early, or tincture of iodine may be painted over the sur- rounding region. If the patient is forced to be about, the application to