1021 TREATMENT OF INTERNAL HEMORRHOIDS. formed. If employed, care should be taken to have the solution freshly made and the needle and syringe thoroughly sterilized. The Ligature.—This method of treatment is an old and well-established one, and the results following its employment are very satisfactory. In the operation of ligating hemorrhoids, after the sphincter has been well dilated, a hemorrhoidal tumor is grasped with forceps—ring forceps being the best, as they do not tear the tumor—and a blunt needle attached to a handle is threaded with a double ligature of strong sterilized silk and passed through the base of the tumor and brought out upon the skin surface ; the ligature is next divided, and the needle is withdrawn. Before tying, a groove is cut in the mucous membrane at its junction with the skin, in which the ligature is to rest. By this procedure the pain following the tightening of the ligature is diminished. By firmly tying the corresponding ends of the ligature the pile is tightly strangulated in two portions. Care should be exercised that the strangulation of the mass is complete. After the ligature has been se- cured the ends are cut short, and a portion of the pile may be cut away with scissors, leaving a good stump, so that the ligature cannot slip. The same procedure is repeated until all the hemorrhoids have been strangulated. The stumps are then pushed back within the sphincter, an opium supposi- tory is introduced into the rectum, and a pad of gauze and compress of cotton are placed over the anal region and held firmly in place with a T-bandage. Betention of urine is apt to occur after the ligation of hemorrhoids, and ne- cessitates the use of a catheter for a few days. The ligature may be applied after dissecting the stump of the pile well up in the bowel; the stump is then ligated and the pile cut off, and the wound is sutured below. By this proce- dure pain and retention of urine are less likely to occur. The patient should be confined to bed for about ten days, and the bowels opened by a laxative and an enema upon the third or fourth day, after which the bowels should be moved on alternate days. Accidents following the use of the ligature are rare ; if a ligature slips, bleeding may occur, and a few deaths from tetanus following this treatment have been observed, but these cases of infection can hardly be credited to the use of the ligature. The results following the liga- ture are satisfactory as regards a cure of the affection, and the only objec- tions to its use are the pain which is often experienced, and the fact that retention of urine is common, calling for the use of the catheter. The Clamp and Cautery.—This method, which was revived by Mr. Smith, of London, is now very widely employed in the treatment of hemor- Fig. 815. Kelsey's hemorrhoid clamp. rhoids. The instruments required are pile forceps, a clamp, and a cautery iron, or, better, a Paquelin cautery. The clamp we prefer is Kelsey's