HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 21 slough, although, strictly speaking, this term should be limited to a dead portion which is already partly separated from the living tissues. The word necrosis is generally limited to the bones, and the slough in this case is also separately designated as a sequestrum. Any violent mechanical, chemical, thermic, or electric injury may cause death of the tissue directly involved, and gangrene can also be produced by any cause which entirely suspends the circulation of a part, so that it is frequently found associated with in- flammation, either as an accidental complication or as a necessary conse- quence of that process. During the progress of inflammation the circu- lation may be shut off from any part of the tissues (1) by mechanical compression of the vessels by the inflammatory exudate, (2) by their oblit- eration by the growth of bacteria within their walls, or (3) by coagulation of the blood in the vessels by some intense fibrin-producing effect of the inflammatory process. It is, for instance, well known how great is the danger of sloughing when suppurative inflammation attacks the tendons, which are poorly supplied with blood, and often enclosed in narrow, un- yielding channels, so that inflammatory swelling may easily shut off their blood-supply. In other cases there is a combination of causes, as may occur in diabetes or at the close of exhausting fevers in which the general system has been greatly reduced and the vital resistance of the tissues impaired, so that an inflammation which would be of little moment in healthy persons may result in the extensive destruction observed in diabetic gangrene of the limbs or in noma of the face and genitals. Finally, there is that class of cases of which hospital gangrene is the type. Hospital Gangrene, which formerly decimated the inmates of the military hospitals, is now of scarcely more than historical interest, for it disappeared so quickly after the general adoption of antiseptic surgery that no proper bacteriological investigation of it has been made. It is, however, possible that this disease may reappear as the result of overcrowding and neglect. It was undoubtedly due to bacterial infection, and most probably to one of the ordinary pyogenic varieties which attained unusual virulence from the foul wound-conditions then prevalent; but some of the cases re- semble the condition known as malignant oedema, which is produced by a special germ and is described on page 50. When hospital gangrene ap- peared in a wound a thick, pultaceous, ash-colored or yellow slough formed, followed by rapid ulceration spreading at the edges and also at the bottom of the wound. The edges of the wound were everted, the skin was detached and dark-colored, aud a zone of inflammation lay just beyond. In a few hours the sloughing would involve a large part of a limb, or destroy the entire side of the body, laying bare the deep vessels and nerves, and often causing rapid death by hemorrhage from the arteries. The ulceration pre- sented a large cup-shaped cavity filled with sloughs emitting a most fetid odor. The patients had fever, and soon became completely septic. The disease could be arrested only by thorough removal or destruction of the infected tissue with scissors and cautery, and sometimes hemorrhage ren- dered amputation necessary. We describe this disease mainly to illustrate the remarkable effect of antisepsis in banishing immediately a disease of such virulent contagiousness and such universal occurrence.