THROMBOSIS. 339 the presence in it of foreign bodies ; atheroma of the arteries may also cause thrombosis. Septic processes may give rise to this condition, as well as cer- tain diseases, such as typhoid fever, pneumonia, phlebitis, and arteritis ; the affection in these conditions is probably always due to the entrance of pyo- genic or specific organisms. A thrombus when once formed at the seat of injury or irritation of a vessel tends to spread, and usually extends to the next large collateral branch. A rapidly formed thrombus consists of a clot made up of fibrin with red and white blood-corpuscles, and constit utes what is known as a red thrombus. When, however, the blood is in rapid motion, and a roughened surface of the wall of the vessel is present, or a foreign body is introduced into the vessel, the white corpuscles alone become attached to it, and there results a white thrombus. In some cases, after the formation of a white thrombus, the red corpuscles may become entangled in it, and a thrombus composed of red and white corpuscles, which is known as a mixed thrombus, results. A thrombus when once formed may undergo organization, calcification, disintegration or red softening, or yellow or in- fective softening. Organization.—The process of organization of a thrombus in a vein is similar to that observed in the healing of a ligated artery (page 76). Embryonic and fibrous tissue replacing the blood-clot, the vein may be obliterated, or the channel may be restored to a greater or less extent by the spaces in the clot enlarging and coalescing and communicating with the vein beyond. The clot is then said to be canalized. Calcification.—Occasionally after thrombosis of veins, especially those which are varicose, small, lime-like bodies are observed to the distal side of the valves, which are known as phleboliths, and are composed of phos- phate and sulphate of lime and sulphate of potash. These bodies may be free in the channel or may be attached to the vein by a narrow pedicle. Disintegration, or Red Softening.—A thrombus may soften and be changed into a grayish-red pulp, the process beginning in the centre of the clot, and the softened material being emptied into the circulation and deposited in various organs and tissues ; but, as the material is not infective, it produces no symptoms of localized inflammation in the tissues in which it is deposited. Yellow or Puriform Softening.—When the thrombus becomes infected with septic micro-organisms from the walls of the vein or from the circula- tion, the softened clot contains broken-down leucocytes and bacteria, and the process which is known as yellow or puriform softening takes place, the clot being converted into a reddish-yellow, creamy pulp. This process is always associated with septic phlebitis. In this variety of softening the broken-down clot passes into the circulation, and particles of the softened clot as infective emboli find their way to the lungs, liver, and other organs, giving rise to metastatic or secondary abscesses. Puriform softening of thrombi is an important factor in pya?mia. The most favorable termination of an infected thrombus is the formation of a localized abscess, which may occur if the infected material is shut off by coagulation. Symptoms.—The symptoms observed in thrombosis will depend upon the seat of the obstruction. In superficial vessels the position of a clot can