297 AMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. to the spine of the tibia and carried outward grazing the fibula, and is brought out as far as possible to the outer side. A flap three or four inches in length is then cut from within outward. The extremities of the incision are next united by an incision across the inner side of the limb involving the skin and fascia only, and any remaining muscular tissue is divided and the bones are sawed. (Fig. 237.) The long external flap is then brought over the ends of the bones and fastened to the edges of the incision on the inner side of the FlG- 238- Fig. 237. Sedillot's amputation of the leg. Stump after Sedillot's amputa- tion. (After Esmarch.) Fig. 239. limb. Ashhurst modifies this operation by cutting the long external flap from without inward, and makes also a short internal flap in the same man- ner. By either method the resulting stump is a good one, with the ends of the bones covered by the tissues of the external flap. (Fig. 238.) Long Anterior Rectangular Flap Method (Teale).—In this method of amputation of the leg an incision equal in length to one-half of the circumference of the leg is made from the point at which the bones are to be divided, on one side of the leg, and is carried across the limb and back upon the other side to a point opposite the point of starting. The flap thus marked out is dissected up to its base, and a posterior flap of one- quarter the length is next cut by a transverse incision down to the bone, and is dissected back to the line of origin of the first incision. The bones are divided with a saw, and the long flap is next doubled back and its edges secured to the posterior flap. (Fig. 239.) The long flap may be cut from the pos- terior surface of the leg and the short flap from the anterior surface. The vessels which require ligature in amputations of the leg are the ante- rior and posterior tibial and the pero- neal and muscular branches. Care should be taken to make the flaps suffi- ciently long, so that the anterior flap shall not be tightly drawn over the spine of the tibia. Formerly, when suppura- tion was common after amputations, the spine of the tibia often came through the anterior flap, and a limited necro- sis of this portion of the bone was apt to occur. To avoid this trouble it Teale's amputation of the leg. (Bryant.)