COMPLICATIONS AFTER TRACHEOTOMY. 865 rapidly diminishes in size ; for a few days air escapes from it upon coughing, but the wound is usually permanently healed at the end of a week. Complications after Tracheotomy.—Diphtheritic Infection of the Wound.—Diphtheritic infection of the wound is a complication occa- sionally seen after tracheotomy for diphtheritic laryngitis, and is one which is grave, although not necessarily fatal. The treatment of this condition consists in the local application of peroxide of hydrogen and the subse- quent curetting of the surface of the wound and swabbing it with a solution of 1 to 500 bichloride of mercury. Secondary Hemorrhage.—This is a rare complication after tracheotomy, but may arise from vessels divided or injured during the operation, or from ulcerative perforation of the trachea through pressure of the lower extremity of a badly fitting tracheotomy-tube, causing erosion of the great vessels of the neck. Its treatment consists in ligating the bleeding vessels. Surgical Emphysema.—This affection is oc- casionally met with after tracheotomy, the air being sucked into the tracheal fascia and diffused through the tissues. It is more common after trache- otomy in which the incision in the trachea is not in the median line and does not correspond with the wound in the soft parts in front of the trachea. A moderate amount of emphysema in the immediate neighborhood of the wound is not uncommon, but sometimes the condition is developed to such an extent that the cellular tissues of the neck, face, arms, chest, and abdomen become greatly distended with air. The most fatal form of emphysema after tracheotomy is that of the connective tissue of the mediastinum, constituting what is known as mediastinal emphysema. Emphysema of a moderate extent seems to do no harm, as the air is quickly absorbed; but when it becomes general and the mediasti- num is involved, marked dyspnoea is apt to develop, and the prognosis is ex- tremely grave. Tracheal Granulations. —Granulations about the tracheal wound occur in certain cases where it is neces- sary to wear the tube for a considerable time, or where the mucous membrane seems to be in a peculiar hypersensitive condition. The presence of granulations may be suspected if the patient coughs up blood-stained secretions after the tube has been changed. Withdrawal of the tube and inspection of the wound will often disclose the presence of granulations attached to the edges of the tracheal wound or growing from the trachea in the region of the wound. (Fig. 745.) The treatment Of this Condition Consists Granulations in the trachea after tracheotomy. in the removal of the tube and in the ap- (Parker.) plication of a thirty-grain solution, or the solid stick of nitrate of silver, or the granulations may be removed with forceps and scissors. Ulceration.— 55 Fig. 745.