1101 DIAGNOSIS OF VESICAL CALCULUS. considerable size. A small stone, however, may cause severe symptoms even without infection, by its pressure upon the sensitive neck of the blad- der, or in some cases by blocking the flow of the urine, the patient observing that urination is possible only by assuming certain positions which hold the stone away from the internal meatus. The irritation of its presence may also excite the bladder to constant contraction, resulting in frequent mictu- rition, especially during the day and while taking exercise. Blood may be passed in the urine from the contraction of the bladder over the stone at the end of micturition, crowding a rough stone against the mucous mem- brane. The frequent micturition and straining may cause hernia or pro- lapse of the rectum, especially in children. Pain is also present from the same cause, and is usually referred to the end of the penis, just below and back of the glans, although it may be felt as a dull, heavy, aching pain in the rectum, in the perineum, or above the pubes. When cystitis is present all these symptoms are greatly aggravated, and mucus and pus are found in the urine in large quantities. The pain becomes acute, and the efforts at micturition are almost constant, so that the patient has no rest day or night. On the other hand, a calculus developing as a sequel to hypertrophy of the prostate, with chronic cystitis, may cause no additional symptoms, the enlarged prostate keeping the stone away from the sensitive neck of the bladder. Children suffering from calculi may have no symptoms except frequent micturition and a habit of pulling at the foreskin, the elongation of the latter having sometimes led to the diagnosis. The symptoms, therefore, are uncertain, and the diagnosis must be made by local examination. Diagnosis.—A cystoscopic examination will usually show the calculus at once, its character and its position. Examination with the sound will give to the skilful surgeon almost equally correct information. In making an examination by the sound or searcher the patient should lie upon the back, with a small pillow under the hips, so as to tilt the pelvis slightly back- ward. This facilitates the examination by rolling the stone away from the neck of the bladder, so that it can be more readily felt. The usual antisep- tic precautions must be observed. The bladder should be distended with four or five ounces of fluid, and the urine may be allowed to collect to that amount, or sterilized salt solution may be injected. The instrument used for this examination is termed a searcher, and is usually a hollow metal sound or catheter with a rather short end, the tip of which is made solid. The best form is that known as Thompson's, which has a straight shaft, the tip being very short and sharply bent. The searcher having been introduced, the handle is depressed between the thighs so that the curve of the instrument shall enter the bladder, and the instrument is then pushed in as far as it will go. It is then slowly drawn forward, being given gentle rotatory movements towards one side at intervals of a quarter of an inch, exploring thoroughly one side of the bladder. In these rotatory motions the beak is made to describe an arc of about a quarter of a circle. The searcher is then pushed back again to the bottom of the bladder and again drawn forward, the rota- tory motions being made on the opposite side. The handle is still further depressed between the thighs, so that the instrument may be turned com- pletely over and the beak directed towards the base of the bladder. In this