704 GUNSHOT FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. closed in a capsule. An empty skull is simply perforated by the bullet without being shattered to pieces. That the explosive effect depends en- tirely upon the velocity of the missile is proved by the fact that it does not occur unless a certain velocity is attained. It should be noted that complete closure of the can or the skull in this experiment is not necessary, the same effects being produced when the bullet is fired into a skull filled with water and standing with the open foramen magnum uppermost. This hydrostatic theory is not accepted by all, but it is the most reasonable yet offered. Clinical Effects.—The effects of gunshot wounds of the head depend upon their situation. The most serious are those which involve the ear, the orbit, or the mouth, especially when inflicted at short range with suicidal intent, as is frequently seen in civil practice. Wounds of the orbit are less dangerous when the roof is injured than when the apex is involved, the mortality in the latter case being eighty per cent. (Berlin). Wounds of the ear may cause injury to any of the important structures connected with or situated near that organ, deafness, facial paralysis, or interference with the motions of the jaw being common. Loss of equilibrium may result from injury to the semicircular canals. Severe hemorrhage is common in such wounds, on account of the proximity of the great vessels. The effects of shots in the mouth will vary with the position of the head, according as the latter is thrown far back and the barrel of the weapon directed against the roof of the mouth, or as the barrel points directly backward while the head is held horizontally. Wounds of the frontal and other anterior sinuses are likely to occur in the first position, and will be indicated by the presence of ecchymosis of the eyelids or of emphysema, while in the other position the injuries will be similar to those of severe fractures of the base. Treatment.—The treatment of gunshot fractures is the same as that of other compound fractures, their only peculiarities being their extent and the frequent occurrence of foreign bodies in them. Foreign bodies should be removed if easily reached, but not otherwise. The bullet may traverse the brain and rebound from the other side of the skull at any angle, or if it be arrested in the brain it may settle down by gravity, quite out of line with the canal of entrance, and it may be impossible to find it even at autopsy. A long search would be necessary in such cases if an attempt were made to remove it by an operation, and might result in more damage than would be caused by the foreign body. The latter should, however, be removed if not too difficult of access, for Wharton has shown in a large series of cases that the mortality was nearly twice as great when the bullet was left in the skull, even in pre-antiseptic times. A ball or other metallic foreign body is easily found by Girdner's telephonic probe. (See page 227.) Bullets may be recognized in this way at a great depth, but it is better to leave them in place than to undertake formidable operations for their removal. If this instrument is not available, a light aluminum probe (Fluhrer) should be employed. If the probe is passed in nearly to the opposite side of the head, the nearest spot to the end within the skull can be determined by securing several threads to the projecting end and bringing them around the skull on different sides, like the meridian lines of a globe. If all of these are kept exactly iu the same plane as the probe, their point of junction on