WOUNDS FROM SMALL SHOT. 229 deeply into the tissues usually become encysted and produce no subsequent trouble. If a few shot have punctured the walls of the abdomen or the chest, the external wounds should be sterilized and dressed with gauze and iodoform collodion or with a gauze dressing, and no attempt should be made to remove them ; the only indication for enlarging the wounds would be the development of symptoms of concealed hemorrhage or inflammation. The patient should be put at rest for a few days and watched for the de- velopment of inflammatory symptoms. We were impressed with the fact that the viscera will tolerate the presence of shot by a post-mortem ex- amination of a man whose body was covered with cicatrices of small shot wounds, in whose liver were found embedded many encysted bird-shot, ap- parently having produced no trouble. Extensive wounds from small shot at close range, if they involve the extremities and have lacerated the soft parts extensively and comminuted the bones, usually require amputation, especially if the main arteries have been injured, but if the bones and arteries are not injured, even though the skin, fascue, and muscles have been extensively lacerated, it may be pos- sible to save the part, and the wound should be sterilized and dressed with a bichloride gauze dressing, or may be treated by antiseptic irrigation until a healthy granulating surface is present. In extensive lacerations following- gunshot wounds of the scalp and skull or the cavity of the chest or the ab- domen, or if a solid viscus, such as the liver, be injured, the wound should be sterilized and loosely packed with iodoform gauze; the same treatment should be applied to wounds involving the lung. If the stomach or intes- tines be exposed and lacerated, attempts should be made to bring the edges of the visceral wound together with sutures, and the external wound should then be loosely packed with iodoform gauze. If the internal wound cannot he treated in this way it may be allowed to remain open, in the hope of a fistula forming at this point, which may later be subjected to operative treat- ment. Although these wounds are very serious ones and usually terminate fatally in a short time, yet occasionally recovery follows. Wounds produced by buckshot or large shot are so similar to those pro- duced by pistol-balls that their treatment is practically the same. The treatment of joint wounds from small shot varies with the extent of damage to the soft parts and the injury to the joint itself. When a few shot have simply entered the joint through separate wounds, these, with the surrounding skin, should be sterilized, the wound sealed with gauze and iodoform collodion, and the joint fixed upon a splint or immobilized in a plaster of Paris dressing, and if no inflammatory symptoms develop the patient may recover with a useful joint. If infection of the joint occurs, it should be opened and drained, and subsequent excision of the joint may be required. Wounds from small shot injuring important arteries or veins may give rise to hemorrhage, which may require the exposure and ligation of the in- jured vessel, or may subsequently cause a traumatic aneurism or arterio- venous aneurism, necessitating the ligation of the artery, the opening of the sac, or the amputation of the limb if a vessel of the extremities is in- volved.