742 EPISTAXIS. With the periostea] elevator the periosteum and all the soft parts above it are separated from the anterior surface of the upper jaw on both sides. In this way all the soft parts of the nose and cheek are dissected up, so that the fingers can be passed upward from the mouth under the skin of the face as high as the root of the nose. The platinum support is then pushed up under the flap, and its upper leg fitted into a small hole which is bored in the stumps of the nasal bones or in the frontal bone. The two lower legs are fitted into holes bored in the superior maxillse at the lower border of the nasal opening. The soft parts are then allowed to fall into place, the skin of the nose being held up in the natural position by the metal support. The soft parts are lightly bandaged down upon the support and the facial bones, a few sutures being inserted in the wound in the mucous membrane of the upper lip. The metal support is exposed in the nose, not lying between the skin and mucous membrane, but lifting up both the skin and mucous membrane with its frame. In spite of the apparent great extent of the wound, the disturbance after the operation is slight. This artificial sup- port has been worn for years without irritation, but occasionally its pressure develops ulcers and compels its removal. It will be remarked that the majority of these plastic operations require the production of new scars upon the face. While these are made inconspicuous by the modern methods of treatment, skin-grafting, etc., they are so serious a drawback that, if the patient is well-to-do, it is always a question whether he would not be better served by an artificial nose made of some light material (aluminium) covered with wax and painted. This is held in place by spectacles, and the cosmetic effect is often better than that of the best plastic surgery. Epistaxis.—Hemorrhage from the nose may originate from an injury, an acute inflammation, or an ulcer, and in women it is occasionally seen accompanying menstruation or serving as a substitute for that function. The hemorrhage often comes from a small artery on the lower part of the septum, which is liable to injury by ulceration or by the finger-nail, and it can often be arrested by a small clanip. If the epistaxis does not originate from this small vessel and its source cannot be found, it can sometimes be controlled by snuffing up into the nose some styptic solution, such as a mixture of alum and tannin, or simply very hot or very cold water. A spray of cocaine or antipyrin will contract the vessels and control capillary oozing from the mucous membrane of the nose. If it does not yield to this treatment, the nose must be plugged ; and it will not answer simply to pack the cavity from the front: the posterior nares must also be occluded. A very ingenious instrument is Bellocq's canula (Fig. 667), which is intro- duced through the nostril, and contains a curved steel spring, which on being pushed through the canula shoots forward under the soft palate into the mouth, carrying a string, which is drawn out and fastened to the tam- pon. The instrument is then withdrawn and the tampon pulled into the posterior naris. A small soft catheter can also be used for this purpose, being passed backward through the nostril until it hangs down into the pharynx, where it is picked up with forceps and drawn forward, the string being secured to this and pulled backward through the mouth and the pos- terior naris and forward to the nostril. It is an easy matter to attach a pad