935 OPERATIONS UPON THE GALL-BLADDER. Tumors of the gall-bladder and ducts are probably not so rare as has been supposed, and a number of cases of small tumors causing obstruction of the duct are on record. They may be recognized by the fact that the gall-bladder is invariably distended, while in gall-stone disease the gall-blad- der is more frequently small. Icterus is a much more common symptom than in cases of gall stones, and there are no attacks of gall-stone colic. Treatment.—The majority of the cases of gall-stone disease and biliary obstruction can be treated by medical measures, but operation is indicated when the attacks of colic are very frequent and severe, when the jaundice is very marked, and when there are signs of suppurative inflammation in the gall-bladder or its neighborhood. Severe choleemia is apt to weaken the heart and predispose to hemorrhage, but jaundiced patients, as a rule, bear operations well. The gall-bladder may be exposed by an incision at the right border of the right rectus muscle or by a median incision, but some prefer an oblique incision parallel to the ribs or a vertical incision with a transverse branch on either side in the shape of a or an |_. The subse- quent steps will depend upon the condition found. If a calculus is im- pacted in the cystic duct, the bladder is to be opened and the stone removed. If this is impossible, the calculus may be crushed by forceps in the duct, or may be broken by padded forceps outside of the duct, or by a needle inserted through the wall, and the fragments abstracted. When the obstruction has been removed, the bladder may be sutured by Lembert sutures if it is healthy and if no obstruction exists in the common duct. If the bladder is diseased, it may be drained by securing the incision in it to the abdominal wound, or it may be extirpated. If the obstruction is a stone which cannot be removed, or a cicatricial stricture or a tumor, the gall-bladder should be extirpated if possible. If extirpation is impossible or very difficult, the alternative is drainage through the abdominal wound, for the creation of a fistula into the intestine (cholecystenterostomy) is not advisable, because the occlusion of the cystic duct shuts off the bladder from the liver and destroys its physiological value, and septic infection of the bladder might be the result of connecting it with the intestine. If the obstruction is in the common duct, in ordinary cases the bladder can be opened and the calculus removed by pushing it back into the bladder through the cystic duct, by crushing it with forceps, or by breaking it up with the needle. If the stone is removed, the bladder may then be sutured and returned to the abdomen, or it may be secured in the abdominal wound and drained, or it may be extirpated, the first being the method of choice. Should the obstruction be irremediable (impacted calculus, tumor), the bladder may be drained either by making a fistula into the intestine, or ex- ternally, or the bladder may be sutured and the dilated duct connected with the intestine by a fistula. In some cases of obstruction in the common duct the gall-bladder is found greatly contracted or absent: the common duct should then be incised and the obstruction removed, the incision being su- tured, or drained when suture is impossible. If the obstruction is found irremediable the incised duct must be drained. This drainage may be es- tablished by making a fistula between the duct and the bowel, or by inserting a tube in the duct and bringing it out of the abdominal wound, or, finally,