FRACTURE OF CALLUS. 510 Fig. 441. Fig. 442. Affections of Callus.—Callus thrown out in the repair of fractures may undergo various changes as the result either of local or of constitu- tional causes. Exuberant Callus.—This formation is often observed after a commi- nuted fracture, or one in which there is great overlapping : it is especially noticed in long bones in fractures near the joints, and is frequently observed in fractures of the femur near the hip-joint. The mass of callus may be so extensive as to project into the sur- rounding tissues and cause pressure upon contiguous nerves. (Fig. 441.) In the case of the ulna and the radius, a bridge of bone may unite them, destroying the motions of pronation and supination. (Fig. 442.) Softening and Absorption of Callus.—Callus may undergo absorp- tion after fracture as the result of pre- mature motion or of constitutional causes. A patient with a fracture firmly united at the end of six or eight weeks, as the result of a depressed constitutional condition, produced by typhoid fever or other adynamic dis- ease, may have the callus soften and motion again appear at the seat of fracture. This is not uncommon after osteotomy for rachitic deformity if the disease is still active. In such cases, however, if the patient recovers from the disease, it is not unusual for the union to become firm again at the seat of fracture. Consecutive Shortening.—This usually results after fracture from the patient's beginning to iise the limb before the callus is firm. It is most fre- quently observed in fractures of the lower extremity. Here the shortening is probably due to condensation of the not yet firm callus. The surgeon should bear in mind the possibility of consecutive shortening, and dis- courage the use of a fractured limb until it is quite clear that sufficient time has elapsed for the callus to become firmly consolidated. Fracture Of Callus.—This results from violence applied to a fractured bone before the callus has become thoroughly consolidated, and may occur from the application of only a moderate amount of force. After a bone has firmly united it is unusual to have a fracture occur at the seat of fracture, even upon the application of great force, it being apt to give way at another point. We had under our care a short time ago a man who, after the removal of the splint in case of fracture of the arm, suffered from two frac- tures of the callus at intervals of a few weeks from slight falls. It is often observed in fractures of the lower extremities after removal of the splints and dressings, when the patient receives a fall from the unaccustomed use Excessive callus In fracture of the femur. (Agnew.) Callus uniting the ulna and the radius. (Agnew.)