405 NEURECTOMY. ducting power, numbness or complete anaesthesia, diminution or loss of muscular power, and in some cases trophic changes. Operation.—The nerve should be exposed by incision and isolated, and if it be a small one, as the facial, an aneurismal needle should be passed under it and it should be stretched in both directions ; if a large nerve, such as the sciatic or median, or the brachial plexus, a finger or fingers should be placed under it, and it should be stretched in both directions, care being taken to keep the force applied well within the limit of the breaking strain. The bloodless method of nerve-stretching is applied only to the sciatic nerve, which may be stretched by placing the patient upon his back, with the leg extended at the knee, and flexing the thigh forcibly upon the pelvis, forced flexion being continued for ten or fifteen minutes. The patient should be anaesthetized before this manipulation is practised. Application.—In nerve-stretching it is probable that the tearing or stretching of the tubules extends far beyond the immediate seat of operation, affecting even distant branches, and this is possibly the reason why this operation is more satisfactory in certain cases than neurotomy or neurectomy. Nerve-stretching may be employed with advantage in cases of neuralgia and chronic neuritis. In neuralgia following injuries of nerves, when the nerves are compressed by scar-tissue or present inflammatory thickening, the results following this procedure are often most satisfactory. In such cases the nerve should be separated from the scar-tissue and thoroughly stretched. Nerve- stretching has been employed in cases of paralysis, epilepsy, and tetanus, and for the relief of the lightning pains of tabes dorsalis, but apparently without permanent benefit. In dealing with mixed nerves, nerve-stretching should be preferred to neurotomy or neurectomy, as the former operation is followed by only temporary loss of motion and sensation, while the latter produces not only anaesthesia, but also permanent muscular paralysis. Neurotomy.—Neurotomy, or nerve-section, is the intentional division of a nerve, and is a procedure which is practised for the relief of pain or spasm. In performing this operation the nerve is exposed at a convenient position and is divided with the knife or scissors. Owing to the fact that union of the divided nerve soon takes place, which is often followed by a return of the troublesome symptoms, this operation is not now much em- ployed and has largely been superseded by the operation of neurectomy. Neurectomy.—This operation consists in the exposure and resection of a considerable portion of a nerve, so that a wide gap exists between its ends. Neurectomy is frequently employed in cases of neuralgia and muscular spasm with satisfactory results. As union of the ends of the divided nerves some- times takes place, even though a considerable portion has been removed, as is evidenced by the return of the symptoms, the ends are often turned back, or portions of muscle or fascia are interposed to prevent their reunion. Nerve-Avulsion (Thiersch).—In this operation traction on the trunk of a peripheral nerve is employed to tear it at its central origin. The nerve being carefully separated from the surrounding connective tissue, the for- ceps, which resemble Lister's forceps, having one concave and one convex blade, are fastened at right angles to the nerve, and the nerve is twisted. The torsion must be done slowly, a half-turn every second. In this manner