322 CONSTITUTIONAL SYMPTOMS OF HEMORRHAGE. Secondary Hemorrhage.—This variety of hemorrhage may occur at any time after twenty-four hours following the wound of the vessel; it is most common from the beginning to the end of the second week, and re- sults from incomplete repair of the injured or ligatured vessel, or from ulceration of the injured vessel due to a septic arteritis. This condition may arise from the introduction of infective material by the instrument causing the wound, or by an imperfectly sterilized ligature. Secondary hemorrhage may also arise from rupture of a wounded artery by increase of the blood- pressure before the cicatrix is firm enough to resist the pressure. Atheroma of the arteries and certain constitutional conditions, as diabetes and ad- vanced renal disease, diminish the resistance of blood-vessels to septic infec- tion and thus predispose to secondary hemorrhage. Secondary hemorrhage was formerly one of the most common and dangerous of woitnd complica- tions, but now, when aseptic healing of wounds is very general, it is rarely seen. Constitutional Symptoms of Hemorrhage.—Excessive hemor- rhage is marked by a rapid, small, quick, and weak pulse, which may not be detectable in the small arteries, such as the radial or the ulnar, but may be feebly felt in the femoral or the carotid. The skin becomes white, cold, and bathed in sweat ; the mucous membranes become blanched. The breathing is rapid, and the patient complains of shortness of breath and great thirst; nausea and vomiting may be present. The voice is feeble, muscular weakness is marked, the patient becomes restless, and has severe cramp-like pain in the limbs, convulsions may occur, and finally syncope develops. The temperature is subnormal. In recurrent hemorrhage the total amount of blood lost may be very great before death occurs; the patient loses blood until syncope results, and then partially reacts before hemorrhage recurs. After repeated hemorrhages the blood becomes thin and watery, oedema of the eyelids, scrotum, and extremities is usually de- veloped, and the feeble action of the heart may be suddenly arrested if the patient makes any severe exertion or is raised suddenly in bed. After recovery from serious hemorrhage there is often developed a condition known as hemorrhagic fever, which is characterized by an elevation of the temperature and increase and irregularity in the pulse-rate, thirst, and scantiness of the urine; the patient is in an asthenic condition and pre- sents marked disturbance of the nervous system, as shown by low, muttering delirium. The condition is not the effect of septic poisoning, but results from the absorption of fibrin ferment and the imperfect supply of blood to the great nerve-centres. After excessive loss of blood the patient is often left in an anaemic condition, from which he recovers very slowly. Eecovery from the anaemia following profuse hemorrhage is rarely complete in advanced life. Spontaneous Arrest of Hemorrhage.—In a large number of cases natural arrest of hemorrhage takes place before the loss of blood is fatal. When an artery is completely severed the muscular coat contracts, and nar- rows or completely closes its orifice ; this contraction is due to direct stimu- lation of the muscular fibres of the artery. At the same time the divided artery retracts within its sheath; the contraction, which is both circular