CHOICE OF TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 1085 Aspiration of the Bladder.—In cases of acute retention of urine when no instrument can be passed and external urethrotomy for some reason is inadvisable, and when the hot bath and full doses of opium have no effect, the patient's sufferings may be relieved by aspiration of the contents of the bladder through a hollow needle introduced above the pubes. When the bladder is fully distended its anterior wall is uncovered by peritoneum for an inch above the pubic bone in the median line, and in some cases this interval is even wider. (See under Suprapubic Cystotomy.) The needle should be inserted exactly in the median line and close to the pubic bone, and should be as fine as consistent with easy withdrawal of the urine, a calibre of about one-twenty-fifth of an inch being proper. The needle and the skin should be carefully sterilized. Strong aspiration should be kept up as the needle is withdrawn after the fluid has been evacuated, as in this way the risk of escape of urine into the cellular tissue in front of the bladder is reduced to a minimum. The bladder has in some cases been evacuated by aspiration every twelve hours for days at a time, but it is not advisable to repeat the operation too frequently, as there is some risk of infection. Choice of Treatment.—The choice of treatment in stricture will de- pend upon the variety of lesion and upon the accompanying infection. In strictures situated in the anterior four inches of the canal an internal ure- throtomy is safe and yields better results than continuous dilatation, which is very slow and exposes the patient to greater danger of infection on ac- count of the more frequent instrumentation which is necessary. Dilatation, however, may be employed for soft strictures in this part of the urethra, recognized soon after the gonorrhoeal infection which has occasioned them, and limited to a small part of the canal. On the other hand, if there is infection of the urethra or cystitis it is wise to combine the external and internal operations, and maintain drainage of the bladder for some days afterwards, in order to lessen the danger of infection of the wound and to relieve the bladder at the same time. Deep strictures may be successfully treated by dilatation unless they are traumatic in origin or there is much cicatricial tissue. In the latter cases a cutting operation is almost imperative if a permanent result is to be ob- tained. In strictures deeper than four and a half inches the external op- eration is advisable on account of the danger of hemorrhage and the greater liability to infection because of the difficulty of maintaining strict asepsis of the deep urethra. It is true that after internal or external urethrotomy regular treatment with the sound is necessary, but the patient is at once restored to the full use of the canal, and it is not necessary to pass the sound so frequently as in the first few months of treatment by dilatation. Eapid dilatation of the urethra or divulsion has fallen into disfavor be- cause of the severe traumatism inflicted, by which the mucous membrane is badly torn and contused and rendered more liable to infection, while the results are no better than those of an internal urethrotomy. After-Treatment.—After the urethra has been brought to its proper dimensions by any of these measures the patient should have a sound passed once a month for at least a year, and after that at intervals of three months until it is evident that no recontraction will take place. In any urethra