973 DIAGNOSIS OF ABDOMINAL TUMORS. domen, owing to displacement or dilatation of the organ. Tumors of the spleen are more or less freely movable, and usually retain the shape of the organ, being flat and sharp-edged and having the splenic notch well defined upon the inner border. Tumors of the gall-bladder maintain intimate rela- tions with the liver, and usually form pear-shaped cystic swellings lying in the normal position of the organ or extending downward. Tumors of the liver are continuous with that organ, as shown by palpation and percussion, whether they uniformly enlarge the liver or project from its border, and they move with respiration. They may be cystic or solid, and the surface may be smooth or nodular, being usually the latter when the enlargement is due to gumma, cancer, or hypertrophic cirrhosis. Tumors of the kidney are lateral and extend into the loin, so that press- ure of the hand in that region is transmitted to the palpating hand in front by the intervening tumor. The tumor usually preserves the shape of the organ, and in its early stages is somewhat movable, although it does not move with respiration. A loop of the colon lies in front of the mass, where it can be felt, or may be demonstrated by percussion when distended with gas. The tumor is usually firm or tense, and may have a smooth or a bos- selated surface. Urinary symptoms may aid in making the diagnosis. For tumors of the female genitals we refer to the chapter on those organs. Certain tumors develop in the omentum and mesentery, cysts being rare in the former and the tumors generally being sarcomatous, while in the mesentery cysts and lipomata are the most frequent. The cysts may be chylous if they are caused by rupture of a lacteal vessel, serous if they are of lymphatic origin, or hemorrhagic. Fatty tumors and sarcoma, as well as masses of glands, may also develop in the retroperitoneal space. Tumors of the omentum lie in front of the intestine, and may be fixed or movable. They lie above the pelvis, but are separated from the liver by the large in- testine, and differ in shape from tumors of the spleen. These tumors are less easily drawn down than up, but they move with respiration. Tumors of the mesentery resemble tumors of the kidney in that they frequently have a loop of bowel crossing in front of them, but they lie in the middle line, and are much more movable than renal tumors until they have reached a large size. Mesenteric tumors do not follow the respiratory movements. Retroperitoneal tumors (excluding tumors of the kidney and of the pancreas) lie near the middle part of the abdomen and are fixed in that situation. They are more difficult to identify than tumors of the omentum and mesentery, and are frequently confounded with tumors of the kidney or of the pancreas. The retroperitoneal tumors may be sarcomata, origi- nating from the bones of the spine or the pelvis. Tumors of the omentum offer the best prospect for operation, and may be extirpated after multiple ligation. Tumors of the mesentery are usually benign, and unless they are well encapsulated cannot be removed without great danger to the intestines, on account of the liability of damage to the mesenteric vessels, so that the operation should generally be limited to an exploratory laparotomy. Cysts, however, may be secured in the abdominal wound and drained. The retroperitoneal tumors (excluding renal and pancreatic tumors) are generally inoperable.