333 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL ARTERIES. should be closed by a lateral ligature, or if a longitudinal one, it should be closed by sutures to secure permeability at the seat of injury. In a wound of the main vein, ligation of the accompanying artery has been practised, with the idea of diminishing the vis a tergo of the circulation. This, how- ever, in practice has not been found to be of advantage. After dressing the wound the limb should be carefully bandaged and elevated. WOUNDS OF SPECIAL ARTERIES. Common Carotid Artery.—Wounds of this artery may result from stab or gunshot injury, or from operations upon the neck, and, if not imme- diately fatal, should be treated by the application of a ligature to the vessel on each side of the wound, and if the vessel has not been completely sev- ered by the wound the division should be completed after the application of the ligatures. If secondary hemorrhage occurs, the ends of the vessel should again be secured by ligatures if possible, or the wound should be firmly packed with iodoform gauze. Internal Carotid Artery.—Wounds of this vessel should be treated, if possible, by the application of two ligatures, one on each side of the wound, but if the wound is close to the skull, so that its ligation would be impossible, or in cases of secondary hemorrhage from the internal carotid, the common carotid should be tied, and a ligature should also be applied to the external carotid artery, near its origin from the common carotid. External Carotid Artery.—In case of wound of this artery, ligatures should be placed upon the proximal and distal ends of the divided vessel, and if secondary hemorrhage occurs the ends of the vessel should again be secured by ligatures. Ligation of the common carotid artery will probably arrest the bleeding only temporarily, as the anastomosis of the terminal branches of the external carotids is very free, and it should be practised only when it is impossible to tie the ends of the external carotid in the wound. Internal Maxillary Artery.—As it is impossible to expose this vessel, the external carotid artery should be ligatured, and if hemorrhage recurs after this procedure it has been recommended that the external carotid upon the opposite side be tied, as the blood reaches the injured vessel by anastomosing vessels from the opposite side of the neck. Lingual Artery.—The bleeding vessel should be secured in the tongue, if possible, by ligatures or deep sutures ; if this cannot be accomplished, the vessel should be ligated in the neck. Middle Meningeal Artery.—This vessel is usually injured by falls or blows upon the head, or it may be wounded in fracture of the skull. In bleeding from this vessel in compound fractures of the skull the fragments should be removed and the artery exposed and secured by a ligature ; if this is impossible, the bleeding should be controlled by packing the wound firmly with iodoform gauze, which should not be disturbed for some days. Trephining may be required for exposure of the vessel in simple fractures of the skull or in cases where the vessel has been ruptured without fracture of the skull. Vertebral Artery.—Injuries of this artery are very rare, but may result from stab or gunshot wounds. Hemorrhage from this vessel may be