603 SYPHILITIC ARTHRITIS. under an anaesthetic, but there is always the risk that forcible motions of the joint may set up fresh inflammatory action, so that we are dis- posed to think it is better to leave the patient with an ankylosed limb in good position, if not painful, than to attempt to restore motion by violent manipulations, which may be followed by extensive inflammation of the joint. The administration of iodide of mercury, grain one-third, com- bined with extract of hyoscyamus, grain one-half, three or four times a day, is often followed by good results. Internally opium may be required to relieve pain, and salol, the salicylates, oil of wintergreen, and quinine may be employed. Syphilitic Arthritis.—Synovitis or arthritis may develop as the result of syphilis, either in the early secondary stages, when it may be of the nature of a subacute septic synovitis, or in the later secondary stages of the dis- ease, either in acquired or in congenital syphilis. In the later form the pathological change consists in a small-celled infiltration or a diffused gummatous formation. Symptoms.—Pain is not usually a prominent symptom, even when the joint disease is marked; muscular spasm may be well developed. The joint is not uni- formly swollen, but is apt to present sev- eral points of enlargement, which give an elastic, doughy feeling ; the skin is not red or inflamed, but later the skin covering the swelling may become purple or brown. (Fig. 539.) When these conditions of the joints are associated with other signs of syphilis, the diagnosis of the character of the joint-lesion is not difficult; but in other cases the diagnosis of this affection from tuberculosis of the joints is often impossible. Treatment.—The results of treatment in syphilitic synovitis and arthritis are usually satisfactory ; immobilization of the joint is seldom necessary, and the patient may be allowed to use the part moderately. The local use of mercurial ointment or syphilitic arthritis, plaster over the joint is often followed by good results. In young subjects, and especially in congenital cases, binio- dide of mercury or the bichloride in appropriate doses, continued for some time, is often followed by the best results. In older subjects, or even in young subjects, after mercurials have been used for some time, the adminis- tration of iodide of potassium alone, or the mixed treatment, biniodide of mercury, grain one-twenty-fourth, iodide of potassium, grains five to ten, will often be followed by rapid diminution of the joint affection. As amemia