ANTERIOR EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT. 645 Anterior Excision of the Hip-Joint.—This method of excising the hip possesses the advantage that it divides no muscular fibres nor vessels of importance, and interferes very little with the capsular structures. It is especially indicated in the early stage of hip-disease and in those cases in which an abscess forms anteriorly. We have employed it in a number of cases, and consider it a most satisfactory method. Operation.—In employing the anterior method of excising the hip-joint, an incision is made upon the front of the thigh over the joint, beginning half an inch below the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and carried three or four inches downward and a little inward ; as the incision is deepened the tensor vaginae femoris and the gluteal muscles are exposed, and should be drawn to the outer side ; the sartorius and rectus muscles should be drawn to the inner side, when the neck of the femur is exposed; the neck of the bone is divided with a metacarpal saw or an Adams's saw, and the head of the bone is then grasped with strong sequestrum forceps, and by the use of these and an elevator it is removed; the acetabulum should then be examined, and if diseased bone is present it should be removed with a curette, as well as any diseased soft structures. The after-treatment of the wound consists in controlling bleeding, and, after thoroughly irrigating the wound, in filling its cavity with iodoform emulsion and closing the incision accurately with sutures. If drainage is desirable, a drainage-tube may be introduced into the bottom of the wound and allowed to project at some point upon the surface of the wound ; we have, however, in those cases in which we employed drainage, found it more satisfactory, after excising the head of the bone, to make an opening through the tissues of the gluteal region and pass a drainage-tube from the acetabulum through this wound, closing the anterior one completely. The result of an anterior excision of the hip is shown in Figs. 573, 574. After-Treatment.—This consists in the application of a plaster of Paris bandage extending from the foot to the pelvis, and including the leg, thigh, and pelvis, which gives complete fixation to the excised joint, or of an extension apparatus to the leg, to which a weight is attached, lateral support at the same time being given to the leg and thigh by the application of sand-bags, the limb being kept in an abducted position during the healing. As soon as the wound is healed a moulded paste- board or a Thomas's splint should be applied, and the patient allowed to go about with crutches. The use of this splint is often required for some time to prevent flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis. After excisions of the hip-joint some surgeons prefer to keep the fixation apparatus applied for a considerable time, with the idea of obtaining bony ankylosis at the seat of operation, fearing that if motion is encouraged early greater short- ening and deformity will result. We, however, are of the opinion that it is of decided advantage to have a fair range of movement in this joint after excision, and, with this end in view, encourage the patient to make motion at the joint as soon as the wound is healed, if it can be done with- out causing discomfort. If the splint is removed during the day, it should be worn at night if there is a tendency to flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis.