373 ILIAC ANEURISM. Treatment.—Medical treatment should be carefully tried, although it will often fail. Ligation of the abdominal aorta has been uniformly fatal in the nine cases of aneurism and two cases of hemorrhage in which it has been practised. One patient lived for ten days after the operation. Murray cured a case by rapid compression, and it has since been successful in the hands of others. If the disease is low enough to permit it, this procedure may be successful, although it is attended with danger of injury to the sac, the viscera, and the peritoneum. Macewen practised needling in a case of ab- dominal aneurism with excellent results, the ijatient being well after two and a half years' hard labor. In this procedure it is important to ascertain first whether any of the viscera lie between the sac and the abdominal wall. Wire has been introduced in the treatment of this aneurism, with unfavor- able results. Iliac Aneurism.—The external iliac artery is the one most frequently affected. This aneurism may reach a considerable size in the pelvis before being diagnosed. There is often change in the pulse of the corresponding leg, sometimes oedema, or even gangrene. It is frequently of rapid growth. It should be carefully diagnosed from aortic aneurism, tumor, abscess of spinal origin, and pulsating sarcoma springing from the pelvic bones. A close study of the history, the location, the character of pulsation, and the condition of the pulse and circulation in the corresponding limb are the main points to be relied upon in making the diagnosis. Treatment.—Rapid compression applied to the iliac arteries or the abdominal aorta has been practised with success. Ligation of the common or external iliac furnishes fairly favorable results, and may be practised extraperitoneally or transperitoneally, the latter operation being preferred by some operators on account of the very extensive incision and dissection necessary to the extraperitoneal route. Gluteal, Sciatic, and Pudic Aneurisms—The gluteal, sciatic, and pudic arteries are sometimes the seats of aneurism, the first being the vessel most frequently diseased. Most of the cases are traumatic in origin, and owing to their deep situations are not easily recognized, especially as they may be partially intrapelvic. They generally rupture before reaching a very large size. The symptoms are swelling in the buttock, accompanied by pain, referred especially along the great sciatic nerve, and interference with movements of the hip, with the ordinary signs of aneurism. There is frequently a history of traumatism. Diagnosis must exclude abscess and malignant tumor, and may demand the use of the exploring needle. In- trapelvic involvement may be sometimes recognized by rectal or vaginal examination. Treatment.—Spontaneous aneurism may be treated by proximal liga- tion, the old operation, or excision. If it cannot be ascertained, as is fre- quently the case, whether there is extension into the pelvis, ligation of the internal iliac is indicated ; for traumatic aneurism the old operation is to be preferred. The aorta or common iliac may be controlled by pressure through the abdominal wall during the operation. Macewen's operation, galvano-puncture, and particularly the injection of perchloride of iron, have been practised, as there is little danger in this situation from embolism.