TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SPINE. 529 There is no doubt that by some of these various methods the time of heal- ing aud the resulting scar are diminished, but for success to follow in such cases it is essential that the wound should be aseptic : if suppuration occurs, the materials introduced are apt to act as foreign bodies, and are thrown off, or have to be removed, and failure as regards prompt healing results. We have employed bone chips in some cases with advantage; but in the majority of cases the method of after treatment, which consists in loose packing of the wound with gauze, is the most satisfactory. If care is exer- cised to see that a cavity is left, with sloping edges of bone, so that the soft parts can be drawn in during the healing, repair is usually satisfactory, and the resulting scar, if it is on a part of the body covered by the clothing, is a matter of little consequence. In cases where the involucrum is poorly developed, or has to be so freely removed as to weaken the bone materially, or where the sequestrum is removed from an exposed portion of the body, and the resulting scar would cause marked deformity, some of the methods which have been described may be employed. TUBEECULOSIS OF THE SPINE. Pott's Disease.—This consists in a tubercular inflammation of the bodies of the vertebrae and of the intervertebral cartilages, and is most com- mon in children between two and ten years of age, although it may occur at any age. In some cases the affection appears to follow a slight trauma- tism, and unquestionably an injury may be the exciting cause in a subject who possesses a tubercular diathesis; in other cases the disease develops without apparent exciting cause. It is observed in all classes of life, but is most common among the poor, in whom ill feeding and defective sanitary conditions result in lessened resistance to tubercular infection. Certain portions of the spine are more frequently the seat of the disease than others : thus, about five per cent, are situated in the cervical region, about fifty per cent, in the dorsal region, and about thirty per cent, in the lumbar region. Atlo-axoid disease is very rare, occurring only in about one per cent, of all cases. Pathology.—The disease usually begins as a tubercular inflammation in the cancellated structure of the bodies of the vertebra?, and may involve the anterior or the posterior surface or the body of the bone at its juncture with the intervertebral disk. The disease probably begins less commonly in a tuberculous synovitis of the intervertebral articulations, and extends to the bodies of the vertebrae secondarily. The changes which occur in the spine are those which are observed in tuberculous arthritis or ostitis in other parts of the body. The destructive process causes softening and breaking down of the bodies of the vertebrae and intervertebral cartilages. The bone and cartilages may gradually soften and break down, or masses of bone may be separated and thrown off as sequestra. The caseation and liquefaction of the affected tissues give rise to spinal abscess, so often seen in these cases. The vertebrae above and below fall together, and a backward projection of one or more spinous processes produces the characteristic angular curvature. (Fig. 449.) The amount of deformity depends upon the extent of the dis- ease in the bodies of the vertebrae ; a limited amount of destruction of the 34