TREATMENT OF TUBERCULAR OSTEOMYELITIS. 526 patient is able to go about and have the advantage of exercise in the open air. Parenchymatous injections which destroy or inhibit the growth of the bacilli, such as iodoform emulsion, ten per cent., balsam of Pern emulsion, ten per cent., and chloride of zinc solution, two per cent, have recently been employed with good results. Iodoform emulsion is the remedy which is most generally used, and an injection of a drachm or two of this material is made deeply into the tubercular tissues or softened bone at intervals of a few days or a week. (See also pages 61 and 62.) Ignipuncture.—This procedure also is employed in the treatment of localized tubercular inflammations of bone, and consists in introducing the needle-point of a Paquelin's cautery through the tissues into the tubercular focus in the bone ; one or more punctures may be made into the cavity at different points. After making the punctures an antiseptic dressing is ap- plied, and at the end of several weeks the eschar separates, and healthy granulations cover the wounds made by the cautery. The relief from pain following ignipuncture is usually marked. Its effect is to destroy directly a portion of the tubercular products, and at the same time to stimulate tis- sue proliferation, substituting a plastic inflammation for a tubercular one. Operative Treatment.—The removal of tubercular foci of disease by operation is, upon the whole, the most satisfactory method of treatment, if the disease is so situated that it can be reached without a too extensive in- cision in the soft parts. This procedure may be adopted early in the affec- tion, or after the softening of the tuberculous products has taken place. Great care should be taken to sterilize the skin in the region of the wound, to prevent infection of the tuberculous area of bone by pyogenic organisms. The use of Esmarch's apparatus for the control of bleeding during the oper- ation will be found most satisfactory. An incision should be made fully exposing the diseased bone, and the cavity thoroughly cleansed of tuber- culous tissue with a curette or gouge ; the surrounding soft parts if involved should be thoroughly curetted, or the tubercular tissue should be trimmed away with scissors. Synovial pouches or the sheaths of tendons, connective tissue, and skin, if implicated in the disease, should be carefully cut away. In operating upon cases of epiphyseal tuberculosis care must be taken to avoid opening the joint. It is a safe rule in these cases to remove the tissues freely, even at the expense of removing some non-infected tissue. After a sufficiently free removal of tissue has been effected, the cavity should be irrigated with bichloride solution, dried with gauze pads, and dusted with iodoform, and the edges of the wound brought together by sutures, or the cavity may be filled with bone chips, and the periosteum and skin sutured over them. If no suppuration occurs, the parts may be solidly healed in a few weeks; if, however, suppuration occurs, healing does not take place promptly, and it may become necessary to reopen the wound and repeat the curetting. If sinuses already exist, and the wound is infected and dis- charging pus, the cavity should be exposed and cleared of diseased tissue, and should then be irrigated and loosely packed with iodoform gauze, and the external wound should not be closed. After a few days the gauze should be removed and fresh gauze packed into the wound. In these cases healing