971 DIAGNOSIS OF ABDOMINAL TUMORS. tainly nine, inches in circumference may enter without danger of perma- nent paralysis or incontinence, and that although it produces lacerations in the anal mucous membrane, it will not rupture the bowel. The hand can be passed up to the sigmoid flexure, and the four fingers made to enter this part of the bowel, and then even the upper part of the abdomen may be reached by the fingers. Exploratory puncture of the abdominal organs with the aspirating needle is a dangerous procedure. Death has occurred from hemorrhage from a needle puncture of the spleen, leakage of the fluid from a needle puncture of a hydatid cyst has produced fatal poisoning, and there is con- stant danger of infecting the peritoneum and setting up peritonitis by fecal extravasation through punctures of the stomach and intestine. The use of the aspirating needle should be limited to puncture of the peritoneal cavity and of the extraperitoneal surfaces of the abdominal organs. Examination of Fluids.—The fluids obtained should be analyzed chemi- cally and their sediment examined by the microscope. Ascitic fluid is clear and has a specific gravity of 1010 to 1015. It has a small amount of albu- min, and partially clots on standing. It may contain fat-globules sufficient to give it a milky color, due to rupture of a lacteal vessel or to fatty degen- eration of cells in malignant tumors. If peritonitis is present the fluid is cloudy, of higher specific gravity, contains more albumin, and also leuco- cytes and endothelial or pus cells. Ascitic fluid is often found when there are tumors in the abdomen, and if the latter are malignant it is apt to con- tain blood. The masses of endothelial cells, once considered a characteristic sign of an ovarian cyst when ascitic fluid occurs with an abdominal tumor, simply indicate irritation of the serous membrane, and are to be seen with any large tumor. The fluid of an echinococcus cyst is similar, especially if it be infected, but it has no albumin in its normal state, and contains larger amounts of mineral salts. Occasionally hooks or fragments of cyst mem- brane are found, and then the diagnosis is certain. Ovarian cystic fluid has a specific gravity of 1010 to 1021, but it may be less or greater. It may be thin or mucoid, or even colloid, and of various shades of yellow, green, or brown. Paralbumin is a characteristic constituent, and cylindrical epithe- lial cells and cholesterin crystals are common. Hydronephrosis furnishes a clear fluid, specific gravity 1010 to 1020, seldom containing albumin or cells unless inflammation has set in. The fluid from fibrocystic tumors of the uterus is yellowish, specific gravity 1020 ; it forms a clot at once, and con- tains no cells except a few leucocytes. Pancreatic cysts furnish a brown alkaline fluid which has power to digest fat and starch. " Conditions resembling Tumors.—Ascites.—Fluctuation is ob- tainable when there is much fluid. When the patient lies on the back there will be dulness on percussion in the flanks and perhaps at the pubes, but the central portion of the. abdomen will be resonant, whereas in ovarian cysts the dulness is in the median line rising from the pubes, and the flanks are resonant. We have sufficiently explained the means by which free fluid may be recognized. A very thick layer of abdominal fat may simu- late a tumor, but when the patient lies down and lifts the head and shoulders so as to fix the abdominal muscles, the mass of fat can still be freely moved