DISLOCATIONS. 553 establishing the diagnosis or locating the position of the ball, should not be resorted to, for much damage may result from this procedure, and little good can be accomplished. Treatment.—In gunshot wounds of joints in which there is great lacera- tion of the soft parts or extensive comminution of the articular ends of the bones with injury of the principal blood-vessels and nerves of the region, amputation should be employed, while in cases where the vessels have escaped injury and the bone injuries are less extensive, excision may be resorted to. At the present time, however, even in extensive gunshot wounds, the expectant method of treatment may be practised with safety, consisting in the employment of rigid asepsis and the removal of loose fragments of bone, or of the ball, if it can be located without difficulty, irrigation of the wound, introduction of drainage, the application of an anti- septic gauze dressing, and fixation of the joint by splints or the plaster of Paris dressing. If suppura- tion occurs in the wound, excision or amputation may be subsequently required; but if the wound runs a favorable course, recovery may follow with more or less impairment of function of the joint or with com- plete ankylosis. Bearing in mind the latter possi- bility, the surgeon should keep the joint in the posi- tion in which it would be most useful should this j°int Medical Mu" seum.) result follow. In simple penetrating or perforating wounds of joints met with in civil practice, which are not usually accompanied by extensive bone injury, the expectant method of treatment should be employed. The skin surrounding the wound should be sterilized and the wound irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution. The wound should be dressed with a copious gauze dressing, and the joint fixed upon a splint or by the application of a plaster of Paris dressing. At the end of several weeks, if the wound has remained aseptic, it will be firmly healed, and at this time the splint may be removed and massage and gentle passive movements practised to re-establish the joint function. DISLOCATION'S. A dislocation or luxation is a displacement of the articular surfaces of the bones which enter into the formation of a joint. Diastasis is the separa- tion at the junction of one bone with another, and is principally seen in the bones of the pelvis, at the symphysis pubis or the sacro iliac junction. Dis- locations may be complete, when the bones which enter into the formation of a joint are entirely separated from one another ; or incomplete or partial, when portions of the articulating surfaces of the bones remain in contact with one another ; this form of dislocation is often described as a subluxation. Dislocations are also classified as traumatic, when the displacement of the bones results from the sudden application of force ; pathological, when the displacement of the bones results from alteration in a diseased joint, or from Fig. 475. Gunshot injury of the knee-