540 GUMMATOUS OSTEOPERIOSTITIS. the medulla has been opened for several inches, the wound is irrigated and an antiseptic gauze dressing is applied. Pain is usually promptly relieved by this operation, and the wound if not infected heals promptly. Gummatous Osteoperiostitis or Osteomyelitis.—This consists in a circumscribed osteoperiostitis with an abundant subperiosteal deposit of embryonal tissue, accompanied at the same time with more or less dif- fused osteosclerosis. In these cases there is a proliferation of the cells within the Haversian canals, which may cause absorption of the osseous tissue, giving rise to rarefying ostitis; some portion of the inflammatory infiltra- tion may soften and present the characteristics of a gumma, while other portions become organized, obliterating the Haversian canals and causing a condensing ostitis, which results in eburnation or sclerosis of the bone. Osteosclerosis may interfere with the nutrition of the adjacent bone and result in caries or necrosis. If only the periosteum and superficial layers of the bone are involved, recovery may take place without either of these conditions re- sulting, but if the deeper portions of bone are involved, caries or necrosis is likely to occur. (Fig. 462.) In syphilitic necrosis and caries, owing to the diminished vascularity of the adjoining bone, the separation of the dead bone is a slow process, often occupying years. Symptoms.—Pain, which is worse at night, is a most marked symptom in this affection. In bones iu exposed situations there is observed a localized elastic swelling, which may in parts present the symptoms of fluctuation ; the skin over the swelling becomes thin and red and may eventually give way, and a thin watery fluid be discharged. If infection occurs by pyogenic organisms, a purulent discharge issues from the sinus. Examination of the sinus with the probe usually reveals the presence of roughened or carious bone at its bottom. Treatment.—In gummata, if spontaneous opening has not occurred, even though the skin be thin and red, prompt improvement and final disappearance of the swellings may take place under the use of iodide of potassium in doses of from ten to thirty grains three times a day. If the swelling has opened spontaneously the effect of treatment is much less satisfactory, and caries or necrosis of the affected bone is more likely to occur. The temptation to open gummata if the skin is thin and red is great, but should be resisted, for such swellings, under the administration of iodide of potassium, will often disappear; whereas if they are opened, caries or necrosis of the bone is very apt to occur, and a persistent sinus results. Bone Lesions in Hereditary Syphilis.—In inherited syphilis lesions of the bone are frequent, periosteal nodes, osteoperiostitis, with marked hypertrophy and deformity of the bones, and gummatous osteoperi- Fig. 462. Syphilitic caries of the skull. (After Treves.)