393 LIGATION OF THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. Fig. 299. magna, with the articular arteries from the popliteal and the recurrent branch from the anterior tibial. Ligation of the Popliteal Artery.—The popliteal artery extends from the opening in the adductor niagnus muscle to the lower border of the popliteus muscle ; it is accompanied by the popliteal vein and popliteal nerve, and gives off articular branches to the gastrocnemius muscle. An incision three or four inches in length should be made along the external border of the semi-membranous muscle. The skin and superficial fascia having been divided, the deep fascia is opened, care being taken not to injure the saphenous vein. The edges of the wound being held apart, the adipose tissue is broken up with a director, and the internal popliteal nerve will be first exposed, and next the vein ; both of these structures are external to the artery. The artery is isolated and the needle is passed from without inward. (Fig. 299.) Ligation of the Anterior Tibial Artery.—The anterior tibial artery begins at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, passes down the anterior portion of the leg, and, after passing in front of the ankle, reaches the dorsum of the foot and becomes the dorsalis pedis artery. The anterior tibial artery may be tied in the upper, middle, or lower third of the leg. The general direction of the artery corresponds to a line drawn from the middle of the space between the head of the fibula and the tubercle of the tibia and the middle of the anterior intermalleolar space. Ligation of the Anterior Tibial Artery in the Upper Third of the Leg.—An incision from two and a half to three inches in length should be made one and a quarter inches external to the spine of the tibia. (Fig. 300.) The skin and superficial fascia having been divided, the deep Ligation of the popli- teal artery. (Agnew.) Fig. 300. Ligation of the anterior tibial artery. (Agnew.) fascia shoidd be opened on a line corresponding with the intermuscular space between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum muscles, separating these muscles and working down in this interspace until the