520 TREATMENT OF OSTEOMYELITIS. the error of confounding osteomyelitis with acute rheumatism to be a very- common one. We have seen many cases of osteomyelitis in which this mis- take was made, and the error was discovered only when an abscess had formed and the presence of dead bone was demonstrated with the probe. An early diagnosis of osteomyelitis is most important, for prompt recogni- tion and treatment of the disease diminish very greatly the risk to the patient, the amount of destruction of the bone, and the subsequent disability. Prognosis.—The prognosis in infective osteomyelitis is always grave; death may result in a few days from septicaemia, or later from pyaemia, and if so unfortunate, a termination does not take place, the patient may be worn out by the pain and fever which are present before the inflammatory exu- dations perforate the bone and appear at the surface. The prognosis varies also with the virulence of the infection, as well as with the promptness and thoroughness of the treatment which is instituted. Treatment.—No surgical affection demands more prompt operative treatment than osteomyelitis. As soon as it is evident that this disease has attacked a bone, the skin over the affected region should be carefully sterilized, and an incision should be made down to the bone. After the periosteum has been divided, in most cases serum or pus will escape, and it is not uncommon to find at the epiphyseal line some evidence of inflamma- tion or necrosis of the bone. The bone should be trephined or cut away with a gouge, and pus is usually found when the medullary cavity is ex- posed. In early operations there may be merely swelling and hyperemia of the medullary tissues. The surgeon should not hesitate to remove the bone freely, cutting away one surface so as fully to expose the inflamed and suppurating medullary cavity; the curette should also be used, and, after all the infected medullary tissue has been removed, the wound should be irrigated with a solution of bichloride of mercury, and loosely packed with iodoform or sterilized gauze. A gauze dressing should next be applied, aud the limb should be placed upon a splint. Usually after such treatment the pain and constitutional symptoms disappear rapidly, and in a few days the exposed bone is covered with healthy granulations. Healing of the wound takes place rapidly, and a depressed cicatrix results. In cases in which the operation is not done for some weeks after the be- ginning of the attack, more or less dead bone may be found upon making the incision ; this should be freely removed, even at the expense of removing bone whicli is not devitalized. To lessen the time of healing, which is necessarily slow, as it is accom- plished by granulation, and to diminish the resulting deformity from a de- pressed scar, various methods, such as bone-grafting and Schede's method of having the cavity filled with a blood-clot, have been employed. For a successful result from any of these methods, it is absolutely essential that all infected tissue should be removed and that the cavity should be aseptic. If infection by pyogenic organisms occurs, suppuration takes place, and the material introduced does not become vitalized, and is thrown off, or remains as a dead body in the cavity and has to be removed subsequently. The method of employing these various procedures will be described under the treatment of necrosis.