PROPHYLAXIS OF SHOCK. 137 more distressing or discouraging cases come under the care of the surgeon than those suffering from profound shock. Often in this condition, in spite of the most careful treatment, reaction does not occur, and the surgeon is compelled to see a patient who has met with a serious accident, who was a few hours before in robust health, rapidly die of shock ; this is particularly distressing, as he recognizes the fact that if reaction could have been brought about a surgical operation might have restored him to health and usefulness. Prophylaxis of Shock.—Recognizing the dangers which the condi- tion of shock entails, treatment to prevent its development is worthy of consideration. Unfortunately, many of the worst cases of shock are due to accidents, and here treatment can be directed only to the condition of shock itself, but the surgeon is often able to diminish to some extent the amount of shock following operations by judicious prophylactic treatment. In patients in whom his experience teaches him that shock is apt to be markedly developed, as in children or feeble or aged subjects, or in certain classes of operations, he may give the patient stimulants before the opera- tion, and also see that the surface of the body is not unnecessarily exposed to chilling during the operation, that the operation is not needlessly pro- longed, and that as little blood as possible is lost during its performance. The previous administration of an ounce of whiskey and the hypodermic injection of from one-twentieth to one-thirtieth of a grain of sulphate of strychnine, and sometimes the use of a small dose of morphine, in feeble and aged patients, will often be followed by good results. A full dose of quinine given an hour or two before the operation is also said to arrest the development of shock. Treatment.—The first indication in the treatment of shock is to estab- lish reaction, and, as death from shock is usually due to cardiac arrest, such means should be employed as will stimulate the cardiac action. The patient should be covered with woollen blankets, the head should be kept low, and dry heat should be applied to the surface of the body by means of hot-water bags, hot bottles, or hot bricks; these should be wrapped in towels to pre- vent them from coming directly in contact with the surface of the patient's body; neglect of this precaution, which is most important if the patient is unconscious, often produces burns which may be followed by extensive sloughing. If the patient can swallow, he should be given small quantities of whiskey or brandy, with thirty-drop doses of aromatic spirit of ammonia, and, as absorption by the stomach is probably very slow in these cases, stimulants should be administered hypodermically : in our judgment, strych- nine is the most valuable stimulant that can be employed. From one- tsventieth to one-thirtieth of a grain should therefore be injected, and the injection should be repeated every hour or half-hour until several doses have been given. Sulphuric ether, thirty minims, may also be injected into the cellular tissue at intervals, as well as digitalin or tincture of digitalis. If shock develops during an operation under ether anaesthesia, the use of ether hypodermically is contra-indicated. A stimulating enema of whis- key and warm water may be employed. In cases of shock where there is profuse sweating, the use of one-sixtieth of a grain of atropine, repeated as