401 WOUNDS OF NERVES. While galvanic irritability is present Fig. 304. I Paralysis of the occipito-frontalis on the left side from wound of the anterior temporal branch of the facial nerve. immediately paralyzed, and remain in this condition so long as the nerve re- mains ununited. (Fig. 304.) At the end of three or four days they refuse to respond to a strong faradic current. Later, the muscular tissue wastes and degenerates, so that at the end of two or three months very little re- mains. Reaction to the galvanic current disappears more slowly, and may not be entirely lost for several months, the reactions of degeneration may be obtained, which are as follows. In a healthy muscle the cathodal closure contraction is greater than the anodal closure contraction ; but after division of a nerve, when the muscle is under- going degeneration, there is rapid loss of irritability in the affected nerve to the galvanic or the faradic current, and the muscles supplied by the nerve rapidly lose their irritability when ex- cited with the faradic current, but show for several days increased irri- tability to the galvanic current. In- stead of the short, quick contraction of the normal muscle we obtain a slow, deliberate contraction in the diseased muscle, with gradual increase in the anodal closure contraction, so that in a short time it becomes equal to or greater than the cathodal. The changes following division of a nerve containing sensory fibres are as follows. The patient is usually at once conscious of a numbness in the parts supplied by the divided nerve, the anaesthesia of the skin being most marked. In severe injuries, involving other tissues as well as the nerves, sensory disturbances are often masked by the pain and shock of the injury. In other cases there is no marked loss of sensibility in the parts supplied by the divided nerve, which condition can be accounted for only by anastomosis with neighboring nerves. Sensation may be lost immediately after the in- jury, but may soon return, the return of sensation being always more prompt than that of motion. In examining for anaesthesia, the point of a pencil or the points of compasses may be employed, and the surgeon should satisfy himself that the patient can both feel and locate the points of contact. In addition, certain trophic changes occur in the tissues from which the nerve-supply is cut off, which may be manifested in the skin by a glossy appearance and the development of herpes or ulcers or superficial gangrene in the anaesthetic area. The nails may become thickened and curved, and present ridges upon their surface. The hair is often shed from the anaes- thetic area, or becomes brittle. The joints may also become inflamed and swollen, presenting much the appearance of rheumatic arthritis, and fibrous ankylosis may result, causing marked impairment of function. Repair of injured nerves is considered under repair of tissues, page 74. When no union of a divided nerve occurs, collateral innervation may take place, analogous somewhat to the collateral circulation which occurs 26