ACUTE PHLEBITIS. 341 largely of white fibrous tissue. Superficial veius in certain localities of the body, notably those of the lower extremity, are provided with valves, which give mechanical support to the column of blood; the deep veins and those of the portal and hemorrhoidal system are without valves. PHLEBITIS. This consists in an inflammation of the coats of a vein, which is followed by changes in these structures, and may exist as an acute and as an acute * suppurative or septic phlebitis. Acute Phlebitis.—This consists in an inflammation of the coats of a vein in which there is an effusion of plastic lymph, and may arise from injury, giving rise to a traumatic phlebitis, or from a perivascular inflamma- tion, from the presence of a thrombus in a vein, causing thrombo phlebitis, or from gout, giving rise to gouty phlebitis. A form of chronic plastic phle- bitis is also occasionally seen, in which the inflammation spreads slowly along the vein in the direction of its current and the vessel is finally converted into a firm fibrous cord. Plastic phlebitis may terminate in resolution without marked alteration in the lumen of the vessel, or may cause obliteration of the vein at the seat of disease. Pathology.—In all cases of phlebitis there is observed marked change in the intima ; in thrombo-phlebitis the proliferation of the endothelial cells is very active, and they may extend into the thrombus. In cases resulting from injury or extension of inflammation from perivascular structures, the outer and middle coats present softening and cell infiltration and the de- posit of plastic lymph ; the endothelium is involved to a less degree. Plas- tic phlebitis presents little tendency to extension, and is usually limited to the portion of vein injured or to the region of the thrombus. Gouty phle- bitis is generally symmetrical. Symptoms.—In plastic phlebitis pain and tenderness, and sometimes discoloration, are noticed over the inflamed vein, and it can be felt as a hard, knotted cord. (Edema of the tissues drained by the vein is very marked ; more or less constitutional disturbance, as evidenced by elevation of the temperature and acceleration of the pulse, may be present, but the consti- tutional disturbance in this form of phlebitis is not so marked as in septic or suppurative phlebitis. Treatment.—The patient should be put at rest in bed, and the inflamed part should be supported and raised upon a pillow, to favor the return of venous blood. Absolute rest of the part and as little manipulation as pos- sible are the chief indications to be followed, for the greatest danger is froni embolism. The tissues over the inflamed vein should be covered by a strip of lint spread with ointment of belladonna and mercury equal parts, and over this should be placed a layer of cotton batting, which may be made to cover the whole limb ; a flannel bandage should next be evenly applied to. the part, from its lowest extremity to a point some distance above the seat of the disease. This dressing should be allowed to remain for four or five days ; subsequent dressings should be made as infrequently as possible, and the greatest care as regards manipulation and movement of the parts should be exercised, on account of the risk of embolism.