919 TECHNIQUE OF ABDOMINAL OPERATIONS. The Incision.—Nearly all operations upon the abdominal organs require the opening of the peritoneal cavity, and the incision usually chosen is in the median line, although it is not absolutely necessary to confine it to the linea alba. The hemorrhage is least and the adjustment of the edges easiest at this point. Other incisions, vertical, oblique, or transverse, may also be made through the abdominal muscles, but the different layers of muscle are difficult to approximate, and a hernia or weakness of the abdominal wall is more to be feared. This defect is less important in the upper part of the abdomen, because the intra-abdominal pressure is not so great as below the navel, and hernia is less likely to develop. For operating on the diseased appendix without suppuration, McBurney has suggested that after the skin has been incised the fibres of the abdominal muscles should be separated in the direction of their length, the opening in the external oblique being therefore at right angles to that in the internal oblique. The opening thus obtained is about two inches in diameter, and after the operation, when the muscular fibres are brought together, the lines of incision in the two muscles cross each other, and firm support is given to the abdominal contents. The size of the incision must be proportionate to the work to be done. Solid tumors require larger incisions than cystic, because the size of the latter may be reduced by aspirating their contents. Any dissection or the intro- duction of sutures deep in the abdomen also requires large incisions, and while the expert may venture to separate adhesions by touch only, and to work through a small opening, the majority of surgeons should see clearly what they do. In making an abdominal incision the skin and muscles or aponeuroses are divided down to the peritoneum, and all bleeding vessels secured before opening that membrane. The peritoneum is then picked up between two forceps and lifted free from the underlying omentum or bowel. A small opening having been made in it, the air enters and the omentum or bowel falls away, so that the incision can be readily enlarged by the scissors. If the parietal peritoneum is adherent to the viscera, great care is necessary to avoid injury to the latter, and the adhesions should be separated as the incision is enlarged. Flat sponges or fiat pads of gauze are then introduced, so as to hold back the intestines from the field of operation, and if it is ex- pected that pus or fecal matter will enter the field, the gauze must be very carefully placed between the edges of the wound and the organ to be at- tacked. This having been done, tumors may be removed, abscesses evacu- ated, or the stomach or intestine opened freely without the danger of exciting peritonitis. After the intra-abdominal work is completed the field of opera- tion must be thoroughly wiped dry, and then the layers of gauze or sponges are removed. Trendelenburg's Position.—When the patient is placed on an inclined plane, head downward, with the knees flexed, the weight of the body being held by the bent legs and the shoulders being much lower than the hips, the abdominal contents all tend to settle to the upper part of the abdomen, and the pelvic region is emptied of everything except the organs fixed in it. This position is known as Trendelenburg's, and it overcomes the difficulty of preventing loops of intestine from slipping into the field of operation. Before the abdominal wound is closed the patient should be lowered, or in-