487 SUPRACONDYLOID FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. Fig. 410. Fracture of the Shaft of the Femur in Children—Fractures of the shaft of the femur iu young children are often incomplete or "green- stick" fractures, and even when complete the shortening is usually not marked, as the line of fracture is apt to be transverse, and the periosteum often, not being completely ruptured, tends to hold the fragments in position. In cases, how- ever, in which the periosteum is extensively torn, marked displacement and shortening may occur, as is shown in the specimen, taken from a child eighteen months of age, two weeks after a fracture which had not been treated. (Fig. 410.) In incomplete fractures with de- formity, the latter should be reduced by manipulation and pressure, even if it is necessary to convert the in- complete fracture into a complete one to accomplish this object. Treatment.—The treatment of these fractures in young children by extension and lateral splints is some- times troublesome, on account of the difficulty in keeping the patient quiet upon his back and from the soiling of the dressing by feces and urine. In children two years of age and over we have never found much trouble in employing extension and lateral support by splints and bran-bags or sand-bags, and have used this method in younger children, but in these cases we make additional fixation at the seat of fracture, and guard against displace- ment of the fragments by the child's sitting up in bed when not carefully watched, by moulding and applying well-padded internal and external pasteboard or binders' board splints to the thigh and holding them in place by the turns of a bandage. These fractures may also be dressed according to Bryant's method, by suspend- ing both legs from a gallows over the bed so as just to lift the sacrum from the bed, or a plaster of Paris bandage from the foot to the waist may be em- ployed. In cases of fracture of the femur in children eighteen months of age or under, it is often difficult to keep them in a fixed position, or they may have to be moved to give nourishment if they are taking the breast. In such cases the dressing which we have found most satisfactory consists in applying a roller bandage from the foot to the groin, and then moulding to the outer half of the foot, leg, thigh, and pelvis a binders' board splint, which is well padded with cotton and held in position by the turns of a bandage carried from the foot to the pelvis and finished with circular turns about the latter. This splint should be moulded so as to include a little more than one-half the circumference of the thigh and leg. If the splint becomes soiled it is easily replaced by a fresh one, and its removal and renewal are much easier than is the case with the plaster of Paris dressing. Supracondyloid Fractures of the Femur.—Supracondyloid frac- tures of the femur may occur just above or at some distance from the con- dyles. The treatment of supracondyloid fractures is similar to that employed in cases of fractures of the shaft of the femur. Fractured femur of a child of eighteen months, two weeks after the injury.