RESECTION OF THE STOMACH. 945 the stomach has been exposed, the transverse colon is drawn out of the abdominal wound, thrown upward over the chest, and covered with a warm, moist towel. The operator then selects a portion of the mesocolon where it covers the posterior wall of the stomach which is free from blood-vessels, and tears an opening in this about three inches in diameter, exposing the stomach. The edges of the torn peritoneum are secured to the stomach-wall with two or three sutures. The bowel is united to the stomach by button or suture, as already described. This method has the further advantage of lessening the liability to vomiting, because as the patient lies on the back the food passes backward by gravity into the intestine through the opening in the posterior wall of the stomach. Resection.—Resection of the stomach-wall, not including the py- lorus, is a comparatively easy procedure, the tumor being cut away freely, the vessels caught and ligated in the usual way, and the wound closed with a three-tier suture, mucous membrane, muscular, and serous, either continu- ous or interrupted, of fine silk. The part of the stomach-wall removed should be elliptical in shape, and the long axis may be placed either longi- tudinally or transversely. Very large portions of the stomach have been removed without apparent injury to digestion. Pylorectomy.—Resection of the stomach-wall, however, will usually include the pylorus as well. The technique of the latter operation is as follows. After exposure of the stomach, a careful examination of the neigh- borhood of the pylorus should be made in cases of malignant disease, to ascertain whether there are infected glands. If there is no contra indication to resection, the pylorus and tumor are completely isolated by a series of double ligatures passed through the mesentery above and below. An assist- ant shuts off the pylorus from the rest of the stomach by pressure with the fingers, while another assistant compresses the duodenum, a long, narrow clamp is placed on each side of the portion to be removed, and the latter is excised between these clamps and the assistants' fingers. The clamps and tumor being removed, the edges of the circular incisions are united. On the posterior wall the serous layers must first be brought in contact, then the muscular layers, and finally the mucous layer, all sutures being tied on the inside. Interrupted sutures of fine silk are generally used, although some surgeons employ catgut and a continuous stitch. The mucous mem- brane suture is then continued on the anterior side of the wound, completing the circle, followed by completion of the suturing of the muscular and serous layers. The bowel and stomach are then released and the abdominal wound closed. If the line of resection through the stomach passes some distance from the pylorus, or if the removal of the diseased tissues requires an ob- lique incision of the stomach-wall, the opening in the stomach will be much larger than that in the duodenum, and before the circular suture described is made, the opening in the stomach should be reduced by sutures until it is of proper size to unite with the duodenum. Combined Resection and Gastro-Enterostomy.—In cases of exten- sive resection, and even in ordinary cases, it is often easier to invaginate the cut ends of the stomach and duodenum and close them entirely by a double row of stitches, the first including the entire thickness, and the second the 60