TORTICOLLIS. 658 may be the exciting cause. There is an acute form, coming on suddenly, with local rheumatic symptoms, pain and stiffness, and some constitutional disturbance, which occasionally becomes chronic. An intermittent variety of nervous origin is observed, especially in adult females, and is either tonic or clonic in type, and sometimes choreiform. The sterno-cleido-mastoid is the muscle most often affected, although seldom alone, the trapezius being frequently involved with the latter muscle, both being supplied by the spinal accessory nerve. The splenius, scaleni, platysina, and coinplexus are sometimes found to be contracted. The sterno-mastoid of one side when contracted turns the head to the opposite side and elevates the chin. (Fig. 590.) Unilateral contraction of the trapezius and deeper muscles of the neck draws the head backward and down towards the shoulder of the affected side. The muscles in the later stages undergo fibrous change, becoming hard and rigid. Attempts at reposition sometimes cause pain, which is not, however, a frequent symp- tom in the ordinary cases. A compensating lateral curvature takes place in the dorsal spine, and a curious asymmetry of the face develops in long-standing cases. It consists in atrophy of the features on the affected side, with de- viation in the line of the nose, a difference in level of the eyes, and asymmetry of the cranium. Treatment.—The treatment is therapeutic, mechanical, and operative. In the acute va- riety the administration of salicylate of sodium, morphine, and atropine, the latter hypodermi- cally, and local applications of heat, may be of service. In paralytic cases means should be taken to restore power to the paralyzed muscles by elec- tricity and the hypodermic injection of strychnine. In the intermittent type careful attention must be paid to the underlying conditions, treatment being directed to improving the general health and the condition of the ner- vous system. In cases associated with reflex irritation, as enlarged cervical glands, and with ocular troubles, treatment should be directed to these con- ditions. Mechanical appliances are of value after operative treatment and in paralytic cases. The simplest device is that suggested by Little, consist- ing of a strip of adhesive plaster around the head and another around the thorax, traction being made by a bandage fastened to the first at the side of the head, running across the chest, and fastened to the second at the opposite side. More complicated appliances are those of Sayre, Buckminster-Brown, and others. Operative treatment is generally necessary in the ordinary chronic cases. Subcutaneous tenotomy and open incision are the operations em- ployed where there is persistent contraction of the sterno-mastoid. One or both heads of the muscle may be divided by either the subcutaneous method or open incision. Open incision should be preferred, as there is less risk of injuring the vessels and the contracted tissues can be thoroughly divided, Fig. 590. Torticollis, or wry-neck.