904 TUMORS OF THE BREAST. form of fibroma is the intracanalicular, in which the tumor grows into a lacteal duct and distends it. (Fig. 760.) The tumor may project into the distended canal as a smooth hemispherical or lobulated mass, or like a true papilloma. In rare instances these papillomatous outgrowths have been found projecting through the ducts at the nipple without any ulceration. Cystic Changes.—In either form of fibro-adenoma cysts may be pro- duced by dilatation of the acini and ducts, as the result of obstruction of the latter by fibrous contraction 1 ''''■ or pressure of the new growth, , ~ or cystic degeneration of the tis- sue of the tumor may take place. I The cysts contain serous, mu- coid, milky, or bloody fluids. (Fig. 761.) ^ Clinical History. — Fibro- adenoma is most frequent in adult life, especially from twenty to thirty years of age, although it has been observed at seven years, and also at seventy. The cystic tumors appear somewhat later than the solid. The growth of the solid tumors is slow (ac- cording to Gross, about two- thirds of an inch in diameter in one year), and they have few symptoms, except those due to the enlargement. The intracanalicular and cystic forms increase more rap- idly, and they may enlarge steadily, or suddenly increase after a period of very slow growth, owing to the rapid development of cysts. They have been known to reach the size of a man's head in one year, and instances are on record in which they have weighed from twenty to thirty pounds. Occa- sionally they are tender and painful, but this is characteristic rather of the small single nodules. In about one-seventh of the cystic cases there is a serous or bloody discharge from the nipple, but this is absent in the solid variety. The nipple, as a rule, is unaltered, but may appear depressed rela- tively if the tumor develops near it. The skin is seldom adherent, but the veins may be dilated in large tfumors. If the tumor is of considerable size it generally involves the entire breast. If it grows from one quadrant only, the remainder of the gland is spread out over it in a thin layer. In rare instances it may become pedunculated and hang from the side of the chest. Multiple tumors of a fibro-adenomatous character are not infrequently found in the breast. It is rarely that ulceration takes place in fibro-ade- noma, but the skin may become so stretched that it gives way and the mass of the tumor protrudes through the skin. When exposed in this way the tumor forms a papilloniatous-looking mass, which projects from the opening and is liable to become infected and to ulcerate. This is more Cystic fibro-adenoma of twenty years' duration.