LOOSE BODIES IN JOINTS. 607 of the brain or of the spinal cord, or from injury of or pressure upon the trunks of nerves supplying the joint. Symptoms.—-The pain is usually intermittent, and is often observed in joints which have received a previous injury, such as a sprain or contusion, although the function may have been completely restored. The patient com- plains of burning or lancinating pain, which is apt to be most severe at the end of the day, when he is more or less exhausted. There is no swelling or deformity of the joint, and the overlying skin appears normal. Treatment.—When neuralgia of a joint follows an injury and there is more or less fixation, the patient should be anaesthetized and passive movements made to break up articular or periarticular adhesions, and the subsequent use of the joint should be encouraged. This treatment is usually followed by complete relief of the painful symptoms. If the condition can be traced to injury of or pressure upou a nerve-trunk supplying the joint, nerve-stretching or neurectomy should be practised. When no tangible cause for the painful condition of the joint can be determined, the patient should be placed upon tonic treatment, and, as in the case of hysterical joints, we have found good results follow the use of Paquelin's cautery, the point being lightly passed over the joint; massage and electricity may also be employed with advantage. Neoplasms of Joints.—The joints are rarely the seats of primary growths, such as sarcomata, carcinomata, or chondromata. Secondary in- vasion of the joints, however, occurs frequently. Sarcoma originating in the head of a bone may extend towards the joint and stretch or distort the articular cartilages, or rupture them and invade the joint. Chondromata growing from the bones, the periosteum, or the soft parts may also involve the joints secondarily. Carcinoma as a secondary affection of joints is among the rarest of diseases. Treatment.—In cases of neoplasms of joints the only treatment which offers the patient relief is amputation. Cysts of Joints.—These growths usually are connected with synovial sacs in or about the joints, and result from the dilatation of normal bursre by excessive secretion. The treatment of cysts of joints is considered under Bursitis. Loose Bodies in Joints.—Loose bodies, consisting of fibro-cartilage, bone, or fibrous material, are occasionally observed in the larger joints, the knee-joint being most frequently affected, and next in frequency the elbow- joint. They may be loose in the joint, or attached by a long or a short pedicle. They vary in size from that of a pea to an inch or more in diam- eter. (Fig. 541.) These bodies originate from the synovial fringes of the joint, becoming detached and remaining free in the joint, or from detached osteophytes, or portions of bone or cartilage, resulting from injury, or from quiet necrosis, by which process a portion of cartilage is detached from the subjacent bone without suppuration. Fibrous bodies probably result from the organization of blood-clot which has been present in the joint. Symptoms.—A patient who has never received an injury to his knee may suddenly be seized with severe pain in the joint and feel that he is unable to move it in any direction ; at the same time he may complain of