TREATMENT OF OVARIAN TUMORS. 1211 especially if the uterus is well drawn down by an assistant with a volsellum fixed in the cervix, and the examiner passes two fingers of one hand into the rectum and presses above the pubes with the other hand while another assistant makes upward traction on the tumor through the abdominal wall. The diagnosis from fibroid tumors may be made by the introduction of the uterine sound or by feeling the round ligaments or tubes upon the side of the tumor. When the tumor attains a large size, which will occur only in the cystic tumors, it may fill the entire abdomen and resemble ascites, but the diag- nosis may be made as has been explained in speaking of tumors of the abdomen. In ovarian tumors there will be dulness from the pubes upward towards the navel in the median line of the abdomen, or somewhat to one side, while the flanks will be resonant. In ascites, on the other hand, there is dulness in the fianks, and the central part of the abdomen is resonant usually well down towards the pubes. The areas of dulness may be altered in both cases by changes in the position of the patient, but will be much more marked in ascites than in the cyst. The tumor is in contact with the abdominal wall in front, bowel very rarely intervening. Fluctuation may be obtained in these large cysts, and usually the cyst outline can be made out, although if the cyst is not very tense and is thin-walled these tests may be impossible. True ovarian cysts, as a rule, have a thick wall, and may be lobulated or vary in consistency in different parts, as may be appreciated upon palpation, while cysts of the broad ligament are generally globular and thin-walled. In the large tumors it is usually impossible to demon- strate the existence of the pedicle which attaches them to the uterus. With ovarian cysts the uterus is generally low down, whereas with uterine fibroids it is drawn up and elongated. The most confusing cases are those in which there is ascites encapsulated by adhesions, or in which an ovarian cyst of large size is complicated with ascites, and often in the latter case the diag- nosis can be made only by drawing off the free fluid, when the cyst can generally be demonstrated. For the diagnosis from fibroids of the uterus, see that section. Treatment.—The best treatment for tumors of the ovary or of the broad ligament is removal by operation, for aspiration followed by the injection of irritating fluids, tried in old times, is too dangerous a procedure. The removal of an ovarian cyst is commonly known as ovariotomy. To remove an ovarian cyst a median abdominal incision is made just above the pubes large enough to insert three or four fingers. A sound is swept around the tumor to ascertain if there are any adhesions, and if none are found a trocar is plunged into the cyst, the patient having been turned on one side so that any escaping fluid shall not enter the peritoneal cavity. As the cyst col- lapses the flaccid walls are seized with forceps near the point of insertion of the trocar and drawn out of the abdominal wound, the entire cyst being gradually pulled out until nothing remains but the pedicle. This is tied off in the usual way by transfixing it with a double ligature of heavy silk, the loops of which should intersect, and the knots should be tied on the thin edges of the flat pedicle. The pedicle is then divided on the distal side of the ligature, and the abdomen closed in the usual way. If adhe-