FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 450 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. Fractures of the humerus are very frequent injuries, constituting about eight per cent, of all fractures, and may involve the upper extremity, the shaft, or the lower extremity of the bone. Fractures of the upper extremity of the humerus include (1) fractures of the head and anatomical neck of the bone, (2) fractures through the tuberosities, (3) fractures of the surgical neck, and (4) fracture or disjunction of the upper epiphysis of the humerus. Intracapsular Fractures of the Humerus.—These include frac- tures of the head or anatomical neck of the bone within the capsular liga- ment, and may be produced by force directly applied or by force transmitted through the arm. If an external wound exists, the nature of the injury may be determined by exploration with the finger or a probe. If, however, the fracture is not compound, the diagnosis is often obscure, but in some cases crepitus may be obtained. In comminuted fractures of the head of the humerus the fragments may become necrosed, and an abscess may form and the fragments subsequently be discharged, or, if this does not occur, the patient is apt to recover with more or less fixation of the shoulder-joint. The treatment of intracapsular fracture is similar to that employed in case of fracture of the anatomical neck, and will be described under the latter fracture. Fracture of the Anatomical Neck of the Humerus.—This frac- ture, which is a very rare one, consists in a separation of the head of the bone from the tuberosities. The line of separation is usually in the slight constriction or groove which sepa- rates the head from the tuberosities, and therefore falls within the boundary of the insertion of the capsular liga- ment. (Fig. 353.) This fracture appears always to re- sult from direct violence—that is, heavy falls or blows upon the shoulder. The separated head of the bone may remain loose within the capsule and be displaced forward or backward from the shaft, or may be impacted into the upper end of the shaft. Marked displacement of the separated head is often prevented, however, by the cap- sule and the tendons. The appearance presented after this fracture, if much fixation of the shoulder exists, is very similar to that after dislocation of the head of the humerus. The acromion becomes prominent from wasting Fracture of the ana- of the deltoid muscle from disuse, but the humerus occu- tomicai neck of the hu- pjes a position in relation to the chest which is not possi- ble in any form of dislocation of the head of the bone. Union in fractures of the anatomical neck of the bone may be unsatisfactory, and the head of the bone may become atrophied and remain ununited. Symptoms.—The most marked signs of this fracture are pain in the joint after direct injury, loss of motion, and indistinct crepitus. If the shaft of the bone be drawn inward by the action of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles, the upper end of the lower frag- ment may be felt, provided there is not too much swelling. In cases of