FRACTURES OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 695 as the ferrule of a cane, are also very commonly left in these wounds, the soft parts closing over them and giving no clue to their presence. The usual fractures of the base are the results of severe blows upon the vertex, the fissures running down into the base. Another form is produced by the spine when the head is driven down upon it, or when a man falls upon the head and the weight of the body produces a fracture of the base. Felizet aptly compares these two accidents to the two methods by which the head of a hammer may be driven upon the handle either by striking the head and forcing it on directly or by striking the other end of the handle and driving the handle into the head, as the latter remains stationary by inertia. Fis- sures through the base follow the laws already laid down. Blows upon the fore- head or upon the occiput are likely to pro- duce longitudinal fissures ; blows upon the side of the head produce transverse fissures ; blows half-way between these points produce oblique fissures. Very severe blows by falls upon the feet or upon the head may force the spine into the skull and produce circular fissures surrounding the foramen magnum. (Fig. 636.) Similarly, blows upon the chin may drive the condyles of the jaw through the base of the skull. The clinoid processes may be torn off by the sudden tension of the tentorium in extensive fractures, but fissures seldom, if ever, run directly across the crista. It is in the base that the theory of Felizet as to the use of the buttresses of the skull should be particularly applicable, if it were based on facts, but even here the Assures follow the direction of the force, without much regard for the relative thickness of the bone in different portions. In spite of the strong buttresses of bone in some parts, the base is particularly susceptible to fracture, because of the large number of open- ings which it contains for the passage of vessels and nerves, and the many places in which the inner and the outer table lie in close contact, making a thin layer of bone without any diploe. According to Phelps, sixty per cent, of severe injuries of the head are accompanied by fracture of the base. In four of his cases the fissure could be traced directly down from the vertex. Diastasis of Sutures.—The sutures are occasionally forced apart by a violent crushing blow, and Phelps has recorded a case in which the temporal bone was torn loose from all its connections. Diastasis of the sutures is more common in children. (Fig. 637.) But diastasis is, after all, a rarity, the fissures in fracture of the skull being generally independent of the sutures. Fissures can often be found running close to a suture in a part of their course, and following it in another part, but leaving it abruptly again, and it would seem that the denticulated structure of the sutures is unfavor- able to the occurrence of Assures. Fig. 636. Extensive fracture of the base of the skull. (Agnew.)