784 INFLAMMATION OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. and renders the opening permanent. When this canal has been estab- lished the fistula will frequently close of itself, but if it should fail to do so a small flap should be cut, turned into the gap, and secured by sutures, the surrounding skin being brought together over the outside raw surface of the flap. More than one attempt to close the opening will often be necessary. Inflammation.—The salivary glands are liable to inflammations, the most common of which is the contagious disease known as " mumps," which almost invariably attacks the parotid, although the submaxillary is also occasionally inflamed. The testicles, and rarely the mammae, are also liable to a "metastatic" inflammation at the same time as the salivary glands, and orchitis may exist alone. Mumps generally runs a course of a week or ten days, with slight fever and a rather painful swelling, frequently on both sides, although one side is often more affected than the other. The process usually ends in resolution, and suppuration is rare. Ab- scesses of the parotid, however, are not un- common. They may be caused by direct in- fection from the mouth through the duct, or from some neighboring wound infecting the gland by the lymphatics. Metastatic ab- scesses may follow some distant process, such as osteomyelitis of the leg, puerperal endo- metritis, or typhoid fever. They have also been observed not infrequently as the result of gonorrhoea ; but such cases may be due to direct infection of the duct by the gonococcus. Abscesses of the parotid are slow in healing, on account of the tough stroma and capsule. The treatment consists of very free and early incisions, but they must be made in horizontal lines parallel with the fibres of the facial nerve, so as not to injure the latter. A chronic inflammation of the parotid, associated with a viscid ropy saliva which blocks the duct and causes painful distention of the gland, is sometimes seen. The gland then presents a flat, board-like swelling in the cheek, and sometimes threatens to suppurate. Treatment.—Iodide of potassium in full doses and the passage of a probe through the duct may result in a cure, but the affection is often very obstinate. Calculi may form in the salivary ducts, and they are most frequent in Steno's duct, forming behind a stric- ture. They often have a small foreign body as a nucleus. The calculi are rough calcareous or phosphatic deposits, usually small, but occasionally of the size of a hen's egg. They cause hard smooth swellings, with very few symptoms, the principal of which is that strong pressure upon them is painful. The calculi should be removed by incision through the mucous membrane of the cheek as soon as their presence is recognized. Tumors.—Retention cysts of the lingual and submaxillary glands are known by the name of Ranula, and are considered under Diseases of the Mouth. Treatment of salivary fistula, showing ends of deep ligature in the mouth.