1150 OPERATION FOR HYDROCELE. evacuated and injected iu turn, only a very small quantity of the carbolic acid being thrown into each cavity. For a hydrocele the size of a man's fist fifteen drops will usually be sufficient. In smaller hydroceles a less quantity should be employed, and in infants only from two to five drops. In very large hydroceles the sac is to be emptied first and the injection postponed until it refills to the size of a man's fist. The only dangers to be feared in this operation are septic infection and the injection of the carbolic acid into the tissues. The first of these can be avoided by asepsis, and the second by making sure that the needle is kept in contact with the canula. A hydrocele with a very thick wall and some niulti- locular hydroceles will resist the treatment by injection and require cutting operations. Incision, or Volkmann's operation, consists in open incision of the sac, the incision being made over its anterior surface in its entire length. The fluid is allowed to escape, a drainage-tube or strip of gauze is placed in the sac, and a continuous suture is made, uniting the skin to the edge of the sac-wall entirely around the opening, thus covering in all the raw tissues. A couple of deep sutures are then passed through the scrotum and wall of the sac so as to hold the two edges in apposition, and a firm dressing is applied in such a manner as to press the sides of the sac together over the testicle. Adhesion of the two walls of the sac takes place, the ex- posure to the air being sufficient to excite the necessary irritation. In a week or ten days the wound is reduced to a granulating strip, but this may require five or six weeks to heal completely. The patient need not be con- fined to bed after the first week, but the slow healing of the wound is an objection to the treatment. Extirpation.—Von Bergmann recommended the extirpation of the sac of the hydrocele, exposing it by an anterior incision and stripping it out of its bed in the scrotum by blunt dissection as far back as the junction of the serous membrane to the testicle and the cord. The sac is opened and its wall cut away from the testicle close to its attachments. There may be a little hemorrhage from the scrotal veins and troublesome oozing from the small vessels at the attachment of the sac near the epididymis. In simple cases the operation is very easy, but in the long-standing cases with very thick sacs, for which the operation is really necessary, there may be numer- ous adhesions and considerable difficulty in cutting away the sac from the testicle. When hemorrhage has been controlled, the scrotal tissues are united over the testicle with two or three mattress sutures and a continuous suture of the skin. Union takes place in a week or ten days, during which the patient should be kept in bed. Thorough as this operation is, recurrence has been known to follow it, as well as Volkmann's, arising from the serous membrane left on the outer surface of the testicle. Both of these operations may be done with the aid of cocaine, but a general anaesthetic is preferable unless the patient be unusiially phlegmatic. Perfect asepsis must be main- tained, as any infection in the loose tissues of the scrotum would be fatal to primary union, and might have troublesome and dangerous consequences. These operative measures should be limited to cases in which the walls of the hydrocele are very thick, or in which some complication exists, such