METHODS OF AMPUTATING. 265 worm gut, catgut, silk, and silver wire may be employed, the principal requirement being that the material shall be one which can be easily steril- ized, and is sufficiently strong to hold the flaps together until union has occurred. Personally we prefer catgut for buried sutures, and either silk or silkworm-gut for approximation of the flaps. The needles employed in closing the stump may be either curved or straight, according to the choice of the surgeon. METHODS OF AMPUTATING. Amputations may be performed by the circular, flap, oval or modified circular, and elliptical methods, or Teale's method by rectangular flaps. In forming flaps in amputation the operator should allow for the contraction of the skin and retraction of the muscles : the old rule was to allow one finger-breadth for contraction of the skin and two for retraction of the muscles. Circular Method.—In performing an amputation by this method the incision of the skin is made at some distance below the point where the bone is to be divided. An assistant grasps the limb and draws the skin evenly and firmly towards the root of the part, and the surgeon passes the heel of the knife well into the tissues and makes a circular sweep around the limb, completing the division of the skin and cellular tissue with one motion of the knife. The second incision in amputation by the circular method consists, after retraction of the skin, in making a circular cut through all the tissues down to the bone. (Fig. 187.) The third step in this form of Fig. 187. Amputation by the circular method. (After Esmarch.) amputation consists, after retracting the skin and muscles and holding them back by retractors, in the division of the bone with a saw. In some cases a cutaneous sleeve, consisting of the skin and cellular tissue, is dissected up and turned back, and sometimes it may be necessary to make a slit in one side of the flap to allow this to be done. The subsequent steps in the opera- tion are similar to those which have just been described. Flap Method.—This method of amputation is susceptible of many variations : there may be one or two flaps of equal or unequal length ; the flaps may be cut antero-posteriorly, laterally, or obliquely; they may also be made by transfixing the limb and cutting outward, or may be cut from without inward, or may be formed so as to include the whole thickness of