513 CHRONIC OR TUBERCULAR PERIOSTITIS. becomes swollen and vascular and can be easily separated from the bone ; swelling and pain occur early, and pus accumulates between the periosteum and the underlying bone; superficial necrosis of the compact layer of the bone may occur. The more common variety of suppurative or infective peri- ostitis, sometimes described as osteoperiostitis, does not occur as a primary affection following injuries, but is secondary to osteomyelitis, and is often observed as part of an infective process following direct or indirect infection from pus microbes, or after scarlet fever, measles, or typhoid fever. It is characterized by marked constitutional disturbances and extensive necrosis of the bone, suppurative arthritis, and often pyaemia, and is a most serious affection. All forms of acute periostitis may, therefore, be considered to result from pyogenic infection ; in certain cases the pyogenic organisms reach the periosteum by a direct wound, while in others, where the skin is unbroken, the organisms reach the infected district by way of the circulation. A. contusion of the periosteum may be an important factor in localizing the infective inflammation at the point of injury. Symptoms.—In suppurative or infective periostitis the region involved becomes swollen and painful; if the periosteal inflammation is a primary affection, the swelling and tenderness appear early, whereas if it is secondary to osteomyelitis the local pain and swelling appear later. The patient may have a chill or rigor, followed by marked elevation of temperature. The skin over the inflamed area becomes (edematous and red, and sooner or later fluctuation can be detected. Treatment.—In suppurative periostitis prompt treatment is indicated, and consists in making a free incision, with full precautions as regards asep- sis, through the tissues and periosteum, to permit the inflammatory exuda- tions to escape. If this is done early the bone may be found little affected, and recovery may occur without necrosis, or with only the development of a superficial necrosis, a thin shell of bone finally separating before the wound closes. Usually as the result of free incision the pain and swelling, as well as the constitutional symptoms, disappear. If, however, the periostitis is secondary to osteomyelitis, simple incision of the periosteum is not followed by relief of the symptoms, and a more radical operation is required : the case should then be treated as one of osteomyelitis, which will be described later. Chronic or Tubercular Periostitis.—This is comparatively rare as a primary affection, but is very common in connection with tuberculosis of the underlying bones, and is sometimes seen in the periosteuin over the ends of the long bones, but is more frequent in the carpal and tarsal bones, the ribs, the vertebra?, the cranium, and the bones of the face. When it occurs as a primary affection, extensive destruction of the periosteum may occur, and the disease extends to the structures outside of the periosteum, and sooner or later tubercular abscess develops. Symptoms.—Pain and tenderness are not marked, and the first symp- tom which attracts the patient's attention is the swelling. The patient often shows symptoms of failing health before the local condition becomes marked. Softening and breaking down of the inflamed tissues in tubercular periostitis occur earlier than in syphilitic periostitis, and pain is not so marked as in the latter affection. 33