499 FRACTURE OF THE OS CALCIS. upon one foot. In this case there was a very marked projection of a frag- ment of the astragalus upon the anterior surface of the foot below the ankle, which was reduced by pressure under anaesthesia. There is usually marked swelling following this fracture, so that the ap- plication of an immovable dressing is not desirable for a week or ten days; we therefore prefer to apply as a primary dressing in these cases a well- padded moulded binders' board splint, which is retained for a week or ten days, a plaster of Paris dressing being then applied and retained for five or six weeks. More or less impairment in the motion of the ankle-joint is apt to result from this fracture, and the surgeon should be careful that the foot is kept as nearly as possible at a right angle to the leg, for in this position the foot will be most useful if ankylosis should occur. Compound fractures of the astragalus are very serious injuries, and gen- erally demand excision or amputation. (Fig. 424.) Fracture of the Os Calcis.—This fracture usually results from falls upon the foot or from force directly applied to the plantar surface of the foot. Fractures of the posterior portion of the os calcis also occasionally result from violent muscular contraction. (Fig. 425.) Symptoms.—The symptoms presented by this fracture depend some- what upon the position in which the bone is broken : if the posterior por- tion is separated, it may be displaced upward by the tendo Achillis through the action of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. If the subastragaloid portion is fractured, there is not apt to be much displacement, but there may be marked swelling and broadening of the sole of the foot, Treatment.—In cases of separation of the posterior portion of the os calcis the deformity can best be reduced if the leg is flexed upon the thigh and the foot is fully extended. When the fragment has been brought into its natural position a well-padded curved splint may be applied to the ante- rior surface of the foot and leg, or a plaster of Paris dressing may be applied, holding the foot and leg in this position. In cases of subastragaloid frac- ture where there is marked deformity it may be treated in a fracture-box or by the application of a plaster of Paris bandage, the foot being fixed at a right angle to the bones of the leg. The time required for union in fractures Fig. 425. Fig. 424. Compound fracture of the astragalus. (After Miller.") Comminuted fracture of the os calcis. (Agnew.)