690 CIRSOID ANEURISM OF THE SCALP. finger, their contents being thick enough to retain the impression of the finger-end like wax. This sign if it were present would distinguish the der- moids both from sebaceous cysts and from lipomata, but in our experience it is rarely discoverable. After incision the presence of hair within the sac confirms the diagnosis. The treatment of dermoid cysts is extirpation, with complete removal of the sac. Angioma.-—Tumors connected with the blood-vessels are exceedingly frequent upon the head. All the varieties of augioma, capillary, cavernous, and arterial, are to be found, and also aneurisms. The latter are generally of traumatic origin. Capillary angiomata and cavernous angiomata are par- ticularly common on the head, about four-fifths of these tumors being found in this situation. They are especially common in children, and are almost always congenital, although generally very minute at birth. They some- times attain a large size, and the vessels may communicate directly with the sinuses within the skull, a fact which should be remembered in operating upon these tumors when they are situated in the median line, particularly in the neighborhood of the fontanelles. Treatment.—All the ordinary methods of treating angiomata are suit- able for use upon the scalp, but excision is the best, because in this situation the scar is a matter of no moment and the hemorrhage is easily controlled by the pressure of an assistant's fingers around the edge of the tumor. A little dissection of the scalp generally allows the edges to be brought into good apposition, flaps being made if necessary. Cirsoid Aneurism.—The arterial angioma, or so-called cirsoid aneu- rism, is almost limited to the arteries of the scalp, being seldom found in other parts of the body, and appears to bear some relation to the capillary angiomata, having become less common since the latter have been more thor- oughly treated. Anatomically, the tumor consists of dilated arterial vessels running in all directions through a portion of the scalp and making it pulsate strongly. The disease is generally limited to one set of the terminal branches of the arteries, the temporal being most frequently affected, but sometimes the entire scalp is involved and the dilatation may extend backward along the carotid to the aorta. Occasionally connecting openings are formed between the veins and the arteries, thus making an aneurism by anastomosis and causing pulsation in the veins. No large tumor is formed, but a flat mass, composed of dilated vessels. Treatment.—The treatment of cirsoid aneurism has proved exceedingly unsatisfactory. Multiple ligation of all the arteries which supply the aneu- rism, followed at the same sitting by ligature of the external carotid (on both sides in very extensive cases), is probably the best treatment. Aneurisms.—Ordinary aneurisms do not differ from those in other situ- ations. They are usually small and originate in an incised wound, being often seen in the temporal region, where stabs with a penknife or some sharp instrument have wounded a small artery and hemorrhage has been controlled by pressure, without cutting down upon and tying the artery at the bottom of the wound. Arterio venous aneurisms of similar origin are also found. These small aneurisms are best treated by extirpation and liga- tion of the artery at both ends. Sacs containing blood connected with the