1179 ENDOMETRITIS. is most commonly due to septic inoculation by instruments used in uterine examinations or for the production of abortion, or to sepsis from careless midwifery. Tuberculous endometritis is usually secondary to tuberculous salpingitis. The predisposing causes are subinvolution of the uterus fol- lowing childbirth, malpositions of the organ, and anaemia. The symptoms are a profuse discharge of clear mucus or a muco purulent fluid, nieiior- rhagia, metrorrhagia, dysmenorrhoea, sterility, various nervous symptoms, pain in the back, and tenderness in the uterus. In the acute septic cases there is a rise of temperature. With the acute infectious, excluding the gonorrhceal, the surgeon is seldom brought in contact, although hysterectomy has lately been recom- mended for acute septic endometritis after labor. The chronic form results in certain changes in the uterine mucous membrane, irritation and ulcera- tion of that membrane in the vaginal portion, painful obstruction to the menstrual flow from the swelling of the uterine lining, and menorrhagia. The changes in the uterine mucous membrane may be simply catarrhal, or granulations may cover the mucous membrane and sometimes assume a fungoid form, each papillomatous outgrowth containing a loop of a blood- vessel covered by a single layer of epithelial cells. This fungoid degeneration of the endometrium especially gives rise to metrorrhagia. There is also an exfoliative endometritis in which the membrane is detached in sheets. Tuberculous endometritis may be miliary, or a general cheesy degeneration. It is usually found at the fundus. Cicatricial contraction of the ulcers may result in stenosis of the canal and the distention of the uterus with purulent tubercular material. Treatment.—It is very difficult to treat endometritis effectively. The patient should be kept in bed for a week or a fortnight at the beginning of treatment. Any malposition of the uterus must be corrected, and any stenosis of its canal dilated. Meanwhile every care must be taken to improve the general health of the patient by proper diet, abundant rest, and perhaps a change of scene. Abstention from sexual intercourse is absolutely necessary. Hot vaginal douches, with a temperature of 110° F. (43° C.) or higher, if the patient can endure it, will contract the vessels and diminish the congestion. In ordinary cases the application of pure carbolic acid or of strong tincture of iodine to the uterine canal will bring about an alteration of the mucous membrane for the better. In severe cases the cervix must be dilated, and the uterine mucous membrane entirely removed with a sharp Fig. 895. Sharp uterine curette. curette. (Fig. 895.) In cases of fungoid degeneration this treatment is espe- cially indicated. After the curetting, hemorrhage is controlled by tincture of iodine applied with cotton on an applicator, and the cavity of the uterus is thoroughly packed with iodoform gauze, which is allowed to remain in place for several days. The dilatation and curetting must be done with full antiseptic precautions, for fear of causing salpingitis or peritonitis, and