741 RESTORATION OF THE NOSE. parts are also defective and must be replaced. Of these plastic operations the best known are as follows : A flap can be cut from the forehead with its pedicle at the root of the nose, and turned clown so as to supply the soft parts. If the lining of the nose is absent, the flap is turned over with its raw surface external, the latter being grafted with skin later. If the mucous membrane is intact, the flap can be simply drawn down so that the skin surface is outward and the raw surface is in contact with the bone and mucous membrane. The flaps can also be cut from the side of the nose or the cheek, but they can be taken from the forehead with the least amount of disfigurement, especially if the wound is grafted with skin. If the entire nose is absent, the most practical method of obtaining a bony framework is that suggested by Konig. A flap of the usual shape for covering the nose is outlined on the forehead, the incision being carried through the periosteum, and then with a sharp chisel the external surface of the bone is shaved off in a thin layer, but left attached to the perios- teum on the under side of the flap. The flap is then turned down, and if the mucous membrane is intact, the bone surface is placed next to the mucous membrane ; but if there is no mucous membrane, the flap should be turned over, with the bony surface directed outward, the latter being cov- ered at once with flaps of skin taken from the cheeks, or left to granulate and covered later by skin-grafts. The old method of supplying the nose with a piece from the arm by the operation of Tagliacozzi is now usually varied by using a finger, thoroughly removing the nail and matrix from it. The soft parts on the palmar surface of the finger are incised in the middle line and turned aside, forming two lateral flaps. The edges of the nasal opening are freshened, and the edges of the flaps on the sides of the finger are sutured to the edges of the aperture. The finger and hand are then securely fixed in front of the face with plaster of Paris bandage strength- ened by wire. After two weeks have elapsed, one digital artery is tied, and a week later the other is ligated, and finally the finger is severed from the hand. Subsecpient small operations are necessary to improve the shape of the nose. The bones of the transplanted finger are very apt to atrophy, so that the result is not so good as might be expected, and the necessity for keeping the hand in this one position during several weeks is a serious drawback, while a minor trouble is the difficulty of thoroughly destroying the matrix of the nail. Metal Supports.—The difficulty of forming a suitable bony skeleton for the nose has induced surgeons to try metallic or other substitutes, the most practical of these being a platinum tripod, one leg of the tripod supporting the bridge of the nose and the other two supporting the alse. The tripod is carefully made to fit the individual case, and it should not be too large, for the soft parts are generally scanty and are likely to shrink. When the soft parts are fairly complete, the nasal opening may be exposed to insert the support by Rouge's operation. This consists in seizing the upper lip with sharp retractors and drawing it upward over the tip of the nose, making an incision in the mucous membrane of the lip near its connection with the gum, and completely detaching the upper lip from the bone.