SECONDARY SHOCK. 138 required, is often followed by good results. A large enema of warm saline solution has also beeu employed with apparently good results. As patients often complain of urgent thirst, it is well to let them take a little black coffee, but not large quantities of water ; free indulgence in water does not seem to quench the thirst, and is apt to be followed by vomiting. Trans- fusion of blood or saline solution has been recommended in the treatment of shock, but has not proved of value, and is likely to be of service only when the condition has been preceded by the loss of a large quantity of blood. The surgeon should treat the condition actively, and should not be dis- couraged if reaction is slow, for reaction and subsequent recovery have often occurred in apparently hopeless cases. The question of operation during shock often confronts the surgeon, and we think it is generally conceded that when an operation is not immediately necessary to save life it is better to postpone its performance until after reac- tion has occurred. Modern methods of wound treatment, although they have in no way diminished the development of shock, allow us to wait for reaction without increasing the danger to the patient from infection of the wound ; in such cases the region of the wound and the wound itself should be thoroughly disinfected, and an antiseptic or aseptic dressing should be applied. The cases in which this question is to be considered are usually those of crushes of the extremities requiring amputation, or gunshot or stab wounds of the abdomen ; in the former cases it is better to control hemor- rhage and direct attention to bringing about reaction from the condition of shock. In cases where it is impossible to control the bleeding or where the means of controlling the bleeding cause the patient great pain, and his temperature is not below 97° F., it may be justifiable to administer ether, and if the patient's condition improves under its employment, the ampu- tation may be performed, often with success. In gunshot or stab wounds of the abdomen, even if the patient presents marked symptoms of shock and exhibits signs of internal hemorrhage, this condition should not deter the surgeon from opening the belly to close visceral wounds or control hemorrhage, for if operative treatment is not instituted death is almost certain. Secondary Shock.—This condition of shock may develop after re- action from shock is complete, or after operations in which primary shock was not marked. The history of secondary shock is usually as follows: a patient who has reacted from shock, and is doing well twenty-four or thirty-six hours afterwards, suddenly again develops marked symptoms of shock. It is at the present time rarely seen, but is mentioned by the older writers as a frequent cause of death after operations and injuries. It is characterized by the usual symptoms of shock, and is a very fatal compli- cation of injuries or operations. The pathology of this condition is ex- plained by the formation of heart-clots, which embarrass the action of the heart or indirectly lead to the occurrence of embolism. Modern writers incline to the view that it is caused by intense septic intoxication, due to infective changes taking place in the wound. The latter view would seem to be sustained by the fact that secondary shock is very rarely seen as a