1165 CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES. most intense at the beginning of menstruation, is colicky in character, and may be extremely severe, being relieved only by very large doses of mor- phine, but it generally subsides as the function becomes established. In other cases, however, the pain is throbbing, with a feeling of fulness in the pelvis and aching in the back and loins, which may be felt only at the beginning of menstruation or may persist throughout. Such symptoms are common in cases of malposition of the uterus without acute obstruction or inflammation, being due to the venous congestion and the dragging of the heavy organ. Obstructive and congestive dysmenorrhea must be treated by removing the cause. Dysmenorrhea of neuralgic or ovarian origin belongs to medicine rather than to surgery. Menorrhagia is a too profuse menstruation, and metrorrhagia is a flow occurring between the regular periods. The former is a symptom of fibroids, of endometritis, especially of the fungoid form, and of malposition of the uterus accompanied by venous congestion. Metrorrhagia usually indicates the presence of a fibromyoma, especially one within the cavity of the uterus. It may be a symptom of malignant disease in the first stages. Whatever cause is found for these conditions must be removed, and when the flow itself demands treatment, in mild cases the administration of gallic acid and cinnamon water or ergot will answer, but in severe cases packing of the uterus and vagina or curetting the uterus must be resorted to. CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES. Complete absence of the genitals is rarely found, but absence of the vagina is not uncommon. In such cases the vulva is usually well formed, but no opening exists between the labia minora except the meatus. Occa- sionally only part of the vagina is absent, either the upper or the lower part being naturally formed. The uterus may be absent, and if no uterus can be found on rectal examination, no attempt should be made to rectify the de- formity. If, however, a uterus of fair size is found, an artificial vagina can be made by blunt dissection in the vesico rectal space, between the urethra and the rectum, up to the uterus. This can be kept open by dilatation with glass plugs, or by the transplantation of a flap of skin from the vulva or from the thighs into the wound, suturing it to the cervix if possible. If no uterus is present or the organ is undeveloped, it will be difficult or impossi- ble to keep the new canal patent. In some cases of absence of the vagina, sexual intercourse takes place through the dilated urethra, and if the uterus is present the cervical canal sometimes connects with the bladder, and men- strual blood may escape through that organ. No operation should be undertaken before puberty. If the condition is hopeless, the removal of the ovaries, which are usually fairly well developed, will often prevent unpleasant nervous symptoms. Women with these congenital deficiencies are not infrequently of fine physique, and possess feminine characteristics. Reduplication of the genital organs is not uncommon. There may be a septum dividing the vagina entirely or in part, or extending up through the cavity of the uterus. The latter is sometimes divided by a septum when the vagina is normal, and in other cases the entire fundus of the uterus is double, with two cavities, resembling the uterus bicornis of the lower animals,