1158 MASTURBATION. successful accomplishment, as every failure increases the mental depression of the patient. Sterility in the male is the result of a failure to fertilize the ovum, but it is by no means always associated with impotence, for although impotence is one cause of sterility, the latter may also result from any condition which impairs the vitality of the spermatozoa, excludes them from the seminal fluid, or prevents the proper ejaculation of the latter. In addition to im- potence, therefore, sterility may be due to functional disturbances of the tes- ticle, causing imperfect production of spermatozoa, to a chronic epididymitis, which prevents the spermatozoa from entering the seminal fluid, to a tight urethral stricture, which prevents ejaculation of the semen during the act of coition, or to any deformity, such as hypospadias, which hinders the deposit of semen in the vagina. Obstruction of the ejaculatory ducts due to inflam- mation or to tumors of the prostate has a similar effect. In some cases it has been found that spermatozoa were present in the seminal fluid but were not vigorous, and in others the fluid has been found entirely destitute of these organisms. Gonorrhoea and its sequelae are the most frequent causes of sterility. The treatment of sterility consists in the removal of the cause, such as congenital deformity, urethral stricture, or chronic inflammation of the epididymis or prostate, or the cure of the impotence which is at the foundation of the trouble in some cases. Masturbation.—The habit of masturbation or self-abuse produces many evil effects because of the over-indulgence in the sexual act, and espe- cially because it is usually practised at an early age, when such excess is particularly injurious. It also has disastrous consequences on the moral nature of the individual. But its local effects upon the organs of genera- tion, even when practised to excess, are not very serious. Its most frequent evil results are sexual and general neurasthenia and hypersesthesia, a catarrhal prostatitis, and sometimes the production of local irritation and hyperesthesia of certain parts of the urethra. Masturbation is sometimes only a symptom of stone in the bladder or of a narrow meatus or foreskin, and can often be overcome by removing such causes. In some cases the habit can be broken by friendly advice, or in very young children by re- straint. In older persons the regular passage of a large cold urethral sound will often quiet the sexual hyperesthesia, and lead to a cure if the indi- vidual is making an earnest effort to stop the habit. Many of the measures of treatment described in the next section will be found useful adjuvants. Masturbation is much less common in the female, and its effects are less serious. It may be due to similar causes, or to irritation of the vulva by adhesions, retained secretions, or parasitic worms from the rectum. The treatment is the same. Spermatorrhoea.—Spermatorrhoea is a name given to the discharge of a mucous fluid from the genitals, which rarely contains spermatozoa, being generally the secretion of the prostate or of the deep urethra under sexual excitement. It is a symptom of slight catarrh or mere hyperemia of the prostate, of very little importance, which is often exaggerated by neurasthenic individuals who are sexually irritable. If the seminal ves- icles are distended, the discharge of their contents during defecation when