42 INFLAMMATION OF SEROUS AND SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. surface. Modern pathologists deny this distinction, claiming that the mem- brane in every case involves the epithelia, and that they are removed with it, the apparent difference depending not on the form of inflammation or of the false membrane, which are always the same, but upon the structure of the mucous membrane at the point attacked. In both cases the mucous membrane loses its epithelia with the false membrane, and the different appearance in the underlying surface alluded to is dependent on the fact that in some situations the mucous membrane has a well-marked basement membrane from which the cells separate readily without bleeding, and in others it has no such structure, the epithelial cells resting directly upon the submucous tissue, and separating from the latter only with violence suffi- cient to rupture the blood-vessels. The same variety of inflammation will produce the so-called croupous membrane in the larynx and trachea and the so-called diphtheritic membrane in the pharynx. They therefore limit the term diphtheria to the inflammation caused by the bacillus of Loeffler (Fig. 9, Plate I.), and the demonstration of its presence should be the de- termining point in the diagnosis of diphtheritic inflammations. A fibrinous inflammation, resulting in the production of a false membrane, may arise from other causes, but the inflammation should not in that case be called diphtheritic. This is true not only of mucous membranes, but of wounds as well, for in wounds we may have either form of fibrinous inflammation with the production of false membranes. Chronic inflammation will show the changes already described, with thickening or ulceration of the parts. In some cases this results in atrophy of the entire mucous membrane, in others in an hypertrophy of the adenoid tissues which are so abundant in them, especially in the pharynx and the intestine. Inflammation of Serous and Synovial Membranes—When the serous and synovial membranes are attacked by inflammation the stage of congestion is accompanied with exudation of serum and fibrin from the surface, and the endothelial cells become swollen and detached in large num- bers. The serous exudation may be sufficient to fill the entire cavity in- volved. There is a form of dry or fibrinous inflammation without fluid exudate, in which the surface of the membrane loses its polish, becoming dry and red, and adhesions readily form wherever the surfaces are in contact. In suppurative inflammation pus is produced by emigration, and also by the detached endothelial cells. If fibrin is present, false membranes form on the surface, and the membrane appears to be greatly thickened. At a later stage the proliferating cells invade these layers of fibrin, and they become organized into connective tissue, and new vessels develop in them. Their tendency, however, is to disappear after a time, and the membrane returns to its original condition, unless the inflammation has been very intense, in which case the new connective tissue becomes permanent. In the serous cavities of the pleura and peritoneum this new tissue is of great importance, for the smooth serous surface is destroyed by the false membranes, and when two inflamed surfaces come in apposition adhesions form which may be of great detriment, to the organs so connected. In some respects, however, these adhesions are undoubtedly beneficent, as they limit the suppurative exudations and surround foreign material of any kind in the cavity, and thus