744 TUMOES OF THE NOSE. ness of the discharge in ozaena is caused by the crusts formed by the dis- ordered secretion and the retention of the discharges. The mucous membrane of the nose is liable to a great variety of inflam- mations, of which we need only mention diphtheria, syphilis, and tuber- culosis. Tuberculosis is generally a superficial affection of the mucous membrane only, whereas syphilis is very prone to attack the bones as well as the membrane. The consideration of the superficial diseases, however, belongs more properly to the specialist. Tumors.—Tumors of the nose occur both within that organ and out- side of it. Outside are found fibroma, angioma, and epithelioma, as in other parts of the face. Dermoids are very rarely found at the root of the nose. The most common internal tumors are polypi. The mucous polypi have the structure of the mucous membrane, and resemble hypertrophy of that tissue. Sometimes the glands of this hypertrophied mucous membrane become obstructed and cystic changes occur. In other cases the polypi are made up of myxomatous, fibrous, or angiomatous tissues. Ordinary mucous polypi originate apparently from chronic catarrh, and are most frequently situated in the upper anterior part of the nasal cavity, especially at the end of the middle turbinated bone. The polypi cause obstruction to breathing, and nasal discharges of mucus, blood, or pus, and they may affect the hear- ing by obstructing the Eustachian tube. Treatment.—Polypi are removed by grasping the pedicles with forceps and twisting them out, by scraping them off with a sharp spoon or curette, or by snaring them with a cold wire Fig. 668. or a galvano-caustic loop. The re- moval of larger ones may occasion some hemorrhage, but trolled by ice-water or tic application, such tannin. Naso-Pharyngeal Polypus.— Another form of polypus connected with the nose, although not strictly a nasal tumor, is the so-called naso- pharyngeal polypus, a fibrous tumor which grows most frequently from the basilar process at the base of the skull. (Fig. 668.) Growing forward from this point, it sends out projections into the pharynx, the nose, the sphenoidal or frontal sinuses, and the antrum of Highmore. These polypi also spring from the margin of the foramen la- cerum anterius, or the wall of the pterygo-maxillary fossa, and then ex- tend between the muscles in all directions, appearing on the cheek above and below the zygoma, and penetrating the orbit or the antrum. This polypus tends to form new attachments in every direction, and is sometimes it can be con- by some styp- as alum and Fibrous polypus of the nose. (After Ashhurst.)