807 ECTROPION. of which is exposed. The lid skin is now united with the upper border of the cartilage by means of three sutures, each suture passing through the edge of the skin, then throitgh the upper border of the cartilage, and finally through the upper edge of the skin wound. When these sutures are tied, the lid skin is drawn upward and fastened to the upper border of the tarsus. This causes a gaping of the intermarginal incision in the form of a groove, which is now filled with a long graft of skin, preferably taken from behind the ear. This graft is spread out and gently pressed into the groove, no sutures being necessary. The dressing should consist of a pad soaked in sterilized salt solution. Ectropion is the opposite condition—namely, an eversion of the lid, with exposure of the conjunctival surface. It may result from diseases of the conjunctiva and the margin of the lid, from palsy of the facial nerve, from wounds, and particularly from burns and subsequent cicatricial contraction, or from caries of the malar bone and the margin of the orbit. Treatment.—In all organic varieties some plastic operation must be devised which will restore the everted lid. In the space allotted it would be impossible to describe the numerous blepharoplastic methods which are in vogue, most of which consist in excision of the cicatrix and sliding flaps into place to cover in the de- fect. Sometimes it suffices to excise a V-shaped piece of the lid, as in the operation which was devised by Adams. (Fig. 704.) When the cicatrix is exten- sive the gap produced by its excision must be covered by a flap of skin taken from the forehead, the nose, or the cheek. To obviate the result- ing scars of extensive plastic operations the Lefort-Wolfe flap, or, in other words, transplantation of skin without a pedicle, may be tried. The flap in all instances should be at least one-third larger than the spot which it is intended to cover. Thiersch grafts may be used to cover granulating surfaces or small defects. DISEASES OP THE CONJUNCTIVA. Inflammatory conditions of the conjunctiva are generally described under the name conjunctivitis, which is synonymous with the ophthalmia of the older writers. Three chief varieties may be mentioned. Simple or catarrhal conjunctivitis, which is common in warm and changeable weather, causes an injection of the posterior conjunctival vessels, oedema of the conjunctiva, and a free muco purulent discharge. It is distinctly contagious, and when breaking out in schools or barracks may become a serious affection, one variety, the so-called epidemic conjunctivitis, vulgarly known as "pink-eye," almost certainly depending upon a small Fig. 704. Adams's operation for ectropion.