189 PLASTER OF PARIS DRESSINGS. until it has the consistency of thick cream, and this should be rubbed evenly over the surface of the bandage to give it a finish. (Fig. 121.) If a good quality of plaster has been used, the bandage should be quite firm in from ten to fifteen minutes; but the patient should not be allowed to put any weight on it for several hours. An equally firm dressing may be secured by the use of a lesser number of bandages if the surface of each layer Fig. 125. of bandage is rubbed over with a little moist plaster of Paris, and this procedure is repeated for each layer of bandage. A firm plaster of Paris dressing may also be applied by the use of very few bandages if narrow strips of tin, zinc, or binder's board 1 ' " Pelvic support for applying plaster of Pans to the be incorporated in the layers of the pelvis and thigh. (Dr. h. Reed.) bandage. In applying the plaster of Paris bandage to the upper part of the thigh and pelvis, the use of a pelvic support, shown in Figs. 125 and 126, will be found most satisfactory. Interrupted Plaster of Paris Dressing.—This form of plaster of Paris dressing is applied by first covering the limb with a flannel roller up to the lower limit of the part which is to be left exposed, and then applying the flannel roller from the upper limit of the part, which is to be exposed as far as may be desired to apply the plaster of Paris. A few turns of the plaster of Paris bandage are next made around the lower portion of the limb, covering in the part included in the flannel roller. Fig. 126. Support in place for application of plaster of Paris. The plaster of Paris roller is next applied above the exposed region, and is carried up the limb as far as desired. A short iron rod is then placed under the extremity, extending some distance above and below the point at which the dressing is to be interrupted, and this is fixed in place by a few turns of plaster bandage above and below the portion of the limb which is to be left exposed. Three pieces of stout wire are next bent into loops, the extremities of which are incorporated in the subsequent turns of the plaster of Paris bandage ; a number of turns of the bandage are applied to fix the loops firmly, and the limb is held in the desired position until the plaster sets. (Fig. 127.)