HABITAT OF BACTERIA. 2 according to their size ; diplococci or tetracocci, according to the production of pairs or groups of four in their multiplication ; and, finally, certain spe- cies are called streptococci, because in their growth they always form chains of cells, while others are known as staphylococci, because they grow in irregular clusters resembling bunches of grapes. Some of the bacteria have the power of motion, generally produced by cilia or fiagella (Plate II., Fig. 8), and some are motionless. Habitat.—The air, the water, the ground, our clothing, our food, even our own bodies, and almost everything about us, are covered by or impreg- nated with these omnipresent micro-organisms, among which pathogenic germs may be found. Every species has its particular habitat, where the conditions especially favor its growth, just as any of the larger plants re- quires to be suited in the soil, the supply of water, the temperature, and the proper amount of light in order to make its growth and multiplication pos- sible. The bacteria in the air are more numerous in dry weather, being car- ried up as dust by the wind, for a moist surface holds any bacteria which may lie upon it. So complete is the action of moisture that air which con- tains six hundred micro-organisms when inspired has been shown to return from the lung with almost none, the moist respiratory surfaces catching the bacteria, so that the expired air is practically sterilized; and this is true even when it comes from diseased lungs. The act of coughing, however, may ex- pel bacteria in the mucus ejected. The number of bacteria in the air is very variable, but it is greater in houses than out of doors, and is naturally increased by attempts to clean the rooms, the air in a hospital being found to contain from forty to eighty microbes in ten litres immediately after sweeping, and several hours later only from four to ten microbes in the same cmantity. In Billroth's clinic-room the air contained most germs just after the students had left, stirring the dust with their feet. Durante found that the air contained the greatest number of microbes at a level of about a yard above the border of the beds in a hospital ward, while close to the floor it was almost sterile. The bacteria which are found in the air, however, belong- chiefly to the innocent varieties, and the danger of infection of wounds from this source is very slight. There has been much dispute as to the pres- ence of bacteria in healthy human blood, and it has finally been settled that in perfect health it contains no bacteria. But if we consider how small a wound or ulcer will allow the entrance of the pyogenic germs, and that this lesion may be concealed in the mouth, rectum, or elsewhere in the interior of the body, it will readily be seen that many persons who appear to be in perfect health may have bacteria circulating in the blood, ready to implant themselves in any bone or other part of the body the vitality of which may be impaired. Parasitic Nature.—The number of species of pathogenic germs is com- paratively small compared with the total number of all the varieties of germs, for the latter are practically innumerable ; and it is simply by reason of this fact, and the power which the animal tissues have of resisting the fungi, that wounds left without care and protection sometimes heal by primary union, and that any animals are able to exist. The schizomycetes are unable to extract nitrogen from the air or the soil like the higher vege-