246 THIERSCH'S METHOD OF SKIN-GRAFTING. ploying this method of skin-grafting, if there is purulent discharge upon the granulating surface it should be freely irrigated with normal salt solution, and a number of grafts should be applied to the granulating surface, after which the surface should be covered with a piece of sterilized protective or rubber tissue, a sterilized gauze and cotton dressing being applied over this and allowed to remain in place for a week. Upon the removal of the dress- ing at this time it will often be found that a portion of the outer layers of the grafts has been cast off, but usually sufficient epithelial structure remains, from which subsequent proliferation occurs, forming islands of epithelium upon the granulating surface. The part should be again dressed in the same manner, and at the end of two weeks the growth of epithelium at the site of the grafts is usually very marked, and the granulating surface soon becomes covered by epithelium. Thiersch's Method.—This consists in covering the prepared granu- lating or raw surface with strips of skin consisting of the epidermal and papillary layers, from two to four centimetres wide and of variable length, which are cut from the skin of the patient or another individual, or from a recently amputated limb, with a sharp razor or scalpel. In cutting these strips the skin should be made tense at the point of removal, and this can be well accomplished by the use of McBurney's skin-stretching hooks. In employing this method of skin-grafting, the granulating surface should be first irrigated with warm salt solution, and the surface curetted, or the granulations may be shaved off with a sharp knife, the bleeding being arrested by the pressure of an aseptic compress. When the hemorrhage has been controlled the surface should again be irrigated and dried, the strips of skin placed upon the surface so as to cover its whole extent, and a piece of sterilized rubber tissue or pro- tective and a sterilized gauze and cotton dressing applied. This dressing should not be removed for a week or more, and subsecpaent dressings should be made in the same manner. If at the end of a few days the grafts have a pink tint, it is a good sign, but if they are white, a large portion of the grafts will exfoliate, although, as in the case of small isolated grafts, enough epithelial cells may remain to form islands, from which proliferation of epithelium may occur. The result following skin-grafting of the orbit by this method is shown in Fig. 175. Per- fect control of the bleeding is an im- portant point, for if this is not accomplished the blood accumulates under the skin-grafts and separates them from the surface. The skin from the back or belly of a frog, or the hairless skin of young animals, may be used for grafting, and is applied with the same precautions and in the same way. Where skin-grafting is practised upon a fresh raw surface to fill a gap caused Fig. 175. Result of skin-grafting of orbit after removal of the eye and eyelids.