VARIETIES OF FRACTURE. 425 Pathological Conditions.—Atrophy of bone, from disuse or disease, may weaken it and make it more liable to fracture. Certain inflammatory affections of bone, necrosis and caries, as well as malignant diseases, may be predisposing causes of fracture. Rachitis is a common predisposing cause. Absorption of a portion of a bone by the pressure of an aneurism or a tumor may also be a predisposing cause of fracture. Nerve affections, producing atrophy or degeneration of bone, may also predispose to the production of fracture. Exciting Causes.—The principal exciting causes of fracture are exter- nal violence and muscular action. External violence is by far the most fre- quent cause of fracture, but it is probable that muscular action in many cases, by fixing the parts, causes fractures to result from falls which other- wise would not occur. Muscular action is also a frequent cause of frac- ture ; the patella is often broken by this means, as well as other bones. Muscular action is probably a much more frequent cause of fracture than is generally supposed, for insensible or drunken subjects, whose muscles are relaxed, often have the bones exposed to great violence without the produc- tion of fracture. Violence may produce a fracture when applied directly, as when heavy bodies come in contact with the bones, such as the wheels of wagons, or masses of timber, iron, or stone, or the result may occur from violence applied indirectly, as when a fracture of the femur takes place from a fall upon the foot. Varieties of Fracture.—Fractures may be complete, when the line of fracture entirely divides the bone, or incomplete, when the whole thick- ness of the bone is not divided and a portion remains unbroken or bent. (Fig. 321.) The latter variety of frac- ture is also known as a greenstick fracture, and is often seen in the long bones of children. Fissured Fracture.—This is also a .. „. ' . , . Incomplete fracture of the radius. (Ferjrusson.) variety of incomplete fracture which is met with in the bones of the skull and in flat bones. In such eases one or more lines of fracture may exist which do not extend over the whole area of the bone. Simple or Closed Fracture is a fracture in which the separated ends of the bone do not communicate with the air through an open wound. Compound or Open Fracture.—This is a fracture in which the sepa- rated ends of the bone communicate with the air through a wound in the soft parts. (Fig. 322.) The communication with the air may be through the skin or the mucous membrane ; the latter condition is generally seen in fractures of the jaw. Comminuted Fracture.—This is a fracture in which there are several fragments, the lines of fracture intercommunicating. (Fig. 323.) When the fragments are exposed to the air through a wound in the surrounding tissues, such a fracture is known as a compound comminuted fracture. Multiple Fracture.—This is a fracture in which the bone is separated at a number of points, and the lines of fracture are distinct from one another.