434 FRACTURE DRESSINGS. Fracture-box. for application by heating it before a fire until it becomes pliable, or by dipping it into boiling water. Plaster of Paris, starch, chalk, gum, or silicate of potassium or of sodium may be employed in the construction of splints, either movable or immovable, for the treatment of fractures. Of these, the plaster of Paris dressing is the one which is now most generally employed in the treatment of fractures. Fracture-Box.—This is a form of splint used in the treatment of frac- tures of the lower extremity, and consists of a board eighteen or twenty inches in length and eight inches in width, with a foot-board secured to its lower extremity, and sides which are secured by hinges, which allow them to be raised or lowered. (Fig. 333.) When a fracture- box is used it is padded by placing in it a soft pillow. A fracture-box of greater length is required for the treatment of fractures about the knee-joint. Bran, Sand, or Junk Bags.—These bags are frequently employed in the treatment of fractures of the femur. The bag, made from a piece of unbleached muslin from three to five feet in length and fourteen and a half inches in width, is filled with dry sand, bran, hair, or straw, and its mouth closed by stitches or by tying with a string. Bandages.—Bandages used in the treatment of fractures are ordinarily made of muslin, being employed to retain splints in place, and sometimes applied directly to the injured part before the application of splints, to control muscular spasm and limit the amount of swelling. When a bandage is used for this purpose it is known as a primary roller. The primary roller is sometimes of the greatest service in the dressing of fractures, in controlling muscular spasm, but wheu used the case should be under con- stant observation, and it should never be used under flat splints, for if swelling occurs after its application it will require prompt removal. Compresses.—These are employed in the treatment of fractures to re- tain fragments in position or to make localized pressure over certain points, and are made from a number of folds of lint, cotton, or oakum. Compresses are held in position by strips of adhesive plaster or by a few turns of a roller bandage. They are sometimes employed to protect bony prominences from the pressure of the splints. This purpose is often better effected by the use of small pieces of soap plaster spread on chamois, soft leather, or kid, and fitted around the prominent points. A Rack or Cradle made of wire or wooden hoops is often employed to support the weight of the bedclothes in the treatment of fractures of the lower extremity. (Fig. 334.) Evaporating or Anodyne Lotions.—Many surgeons in cases of frac- ture, especially those involving or situated near joints, employ evaporating lotions, such as lead water and laudanum or muriate of ammonia and lauda- num ; lint saturated with one of these lotions is applied to the skin in the Fig. 334. Fracture-rack.