801 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE LENS. embedded in the substance of the cornea. Even when the body is embedded in the centre of the cornea the source of irritation is commonly referred to the under surface of the upper lid. A patient complaining of a foreign body in the eye should be submitted to the following inspection : first the lower lid should be drawn downward and the exposed conjunctival folds examined with oblique illumination, then the surface of the cornea should be inspected with a magnifying glass, and finally the upper lid should be everted. The foreign body may be found on the surface of the conjunctiva thus exposed, but sometimes it is high up in the retrotarsal fold, and can be seen only by making the patient look strongly downward and throwing a light up into the sulcus. Treatment.—To remove a foreign body from the cornea, after the cornea has been cocainized, the upper and lower lids are held apart with the thumb and forefinger of the surgeon's left hand, while with the right hand he takes a fine needle or spud (Fig. 701) and lifts the body from its position with as little injury as possible. Instead of using a spud, if the body is not too deeply em- bedded, it may be re- Iffl^filTOMlP'^-* ^ * ~ moved with an ap- gputi for removing foreign bodies. plicator on which has been twisted a wisp of cotton. It is very important to sterilize the spud, and the conjunctival cul-de-sac should be thoroughly flushed with boric acid solution after the removal of the body. Foreign bodies in the anterior chamber may fall to its bottom, or may become entangled in the meshes of the iris. If there is no available wound of entrance through which the foreign body has passed, the anterior chamber should be tapped with a broad needle, and through the wound thus made a delicate pair of forceps should be passed and the body removed. If it is deeply entangled in the meshes of the iris, the portion of this membrane containing the foreign body should be withdrawn and abscised. Foreign Bodies in the Lens.—If a foreign body penetrates still farther, it may become embedded in the lens. This accident is usually fol- lowed by cataract, either complete or rarely incomplete. If a complete traumatic cataract forms, an attempt should be made to extract the lens with the foreign body, lest the particle become dislodged and pass into the deeper structures of the eye. Foreign Bodies within the Globe.—These usually consist of a chip of steel, a splinter of glass, a bullet, or a piece of brass filing. If the body, owing to opacities of the media, cannot be seen with the ophthalmoscope, a skiagraphic examination should be made. This in a number of instances has revealed the position of the foreign body. Treatment.—If the surgeon has satisfied himself that there is a foreign body within the globe, an attempt may be made to extract it with delicate, carefully disinfected forceps, but only if there is some positive indication as to the direction in which to pass the forceps. If the foreign body is 51