TUMORS OF CONJUNCTIVA. 812 the most serviceable remedy. The ordinary constitutional treatment of diphtheria is advisable. (b) Spring Conjunctivitis (Fruhjahrskatarrh).—This form of conjunc- tival inflammation is becoming more common in this country than was for- merly the case. The symptoms are moderate mucous secretion and the formation of flat granulations in the conjunctiva, associated with hypertro- phy of the tissue surrounding the limbus of the cornea. A somewhat char- acteristic behavior of the disease is its tendency to relapse, or, rather, to return in the early spring, and to subside in cool weather. It is rare in advanced life, and most frequent between the ages of five and fourteen. It may accompany the disease called hay-fever. In addition to the treatment of an ordinary conjunctivitis, the best application to the everted lids is boroglyceride or a solution of bichloride of mercury 1 to 500. In troublesome cases the flattened granulations may be destroyed by expression or electrolysis. Pterygium.—This is a somewhat fan-shaped growth, consisting of hy- pertrophy of the conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissue, and generally situ- ated at the inner side of the eyeball, extending from the caruncle to the edge of the cornea. Its earliest appearance is frequently in the form of a Pinguec- ula, or yellowish elevation composed of connective tissue and elastic fibres. Treatment.—Small pterygia may be destroyed with the electro-cautery, larger pterygia excised and the defect covered with a flap of conjunctiva. When they are of great size and fleshy in appearance, excision is imprac- ticable, and the pterygium should be split from apex to base and trans- planted above and below, the transplanted portions being tucked beneath the conjunctiva and held in position with sutures. There is a marked tendency for pterygia to return, especially if the vascular tissue which composes their bases is not thoroughly removed. Tumors and Cysts of the Conjunctiva.—Translucent cysts, naevi, and dermoid tumors appear as congenital conjunctival growths. Lipoma, fibroma, osteoma, and papilloma may be found in this situation. Usually their excision is attended with little difficulty. Epithelioma and sarcoma occur in the conjunctiva, and sometimes may be excised without sacrificing the eyeball. If they are extensive, especially if the cornea and deeper tissues are involved, the entire globe must be extirpated. Ecchymosis of the conjunctiva, or an extravasation of blood beneath this membrane, may result from an injury or appear during a paroxysm of coughing. It sometimes is spontaneous. Recurring subconjunctival hemorrhages in elderly people are not infrequently indicative of vascular changes, which in their turn are associated with Bright's disease. Chemosis of the conjunctiva, or a distention of its connective-tissue layer with serum, is a symptom in various inflammatory conditions of the eye. It may also be an indication of Bright's disease, and is the common result of orbital inflammation or acute inflammations of the deeper struc- tures of the eye—for example, the choroid coat. Emphysema of the conjunctiva, or a distention of its connective- tissue spaces with air, occurs under the same condition which causes this phenomenon in the eyelids.