875 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. a condition which has been described as concussion of the lung, or commotio thoracica, a condition analogous to concussion of the brain, in which there is serious functional derangement without organic lesion. The symptoms of this injury are collapse, great dyspnoea, and diminished respiratory murmur. These symptoms may disappear in a few hours and leave no trace of serious injury of the lung. Death, on the other hand, may occur soon after the reception of the injury, and post-mortem examination of such cases has failed to reveal any distinct lesion, the fatal result being probably due to disturbance of the cardiac ganglia and sympathetic plexus. Treatment.—The treatment consists in lowering the head, administer- ing cardiac stimulants, ammonia, alcohol, or strychnine, and the employment of artificial respiration, preferably by Laborde's method. WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Wounds of the chest may be non-penetrating or penetrating. Non-Penetrating Wounds of the Chest.—Wounds involving this region may be incised or lacerated or gunshot; they may be slight or extensive, involving the skin and cellular tissue only, or penetrating the deep fascia and the muscles. They may be attended with free hemorrhage, particularly if the intercostal or the internal mammary arteries have been injured. In examining these wounds the surgeon should be careful that he does not convert the wound into a penetrating one. Treatment.—In dressing non-penetrating wounds of the chest the surgeon should be careful to sterilize the wouud and keep it aseptic, for septic wounds of the chest are not infrequently followed by septic infection of the intrathoracic viscera. Incised wounds of the chest should be ap- proximated by deep sutures, passed to the depth of the wound, or the muscles and deep fascia may be united by buried sutures, and the skin and superficial fascia approximated by a separate layer of sutures. In lacerated wounds a few sutures may be introduced to hold the parte in place, but if they cause any tension they should not be used. The wounds should be dressed with an antiseptic or sterilized gauze dressing. Healing in these cases is usually slow, on account of the constant motion of the parts in the movements of respiration, but it may be facilitated by the application of strips of adhesive plaster, limiting the motion of the chest on the injured side. Penetrating Wounds of the Chest.—These may consist of small or extensive punctured, incised, lacerated, or gunshot wounds with or without injury to the thoracic viscera. The principal dangers in penetrating wounds of the chest arise from hemorrhage, if the intercostal or internal mammary arteries, the heart or great vessels, or the lung have been injured, and from septic infection, for it is almost impossible to disinfect the pleural cavity if infective material has once been introduced through the wound. Penetrating Wounds of the Chest without Injury of the Vis- cera.—The chest-wall and costal pleura may be penetrated in incised wounds and the viscera may escape injury. The symptoms in such an injury will depend somewhat upon the extent of the wound. Air may be drawn in and pass out of the wound with the movements of respiration