1204 SALPINGITIS. ligating the ovarian arteries at the edge of the broad ligament and securing the uterine vessels by tying the anterior branches of the internal iliacs on both sides (Polk). The results of the Cesarean operation are now excellent, only one-tenth of the mothers dying, and less than that number of the children. DISEASES OF THE TUBES AND OVAEIES. Salpingitis.—The majority of the diseases of the Fallopian tubes are due to inflammations from gonorrheal or septic infection, the latter occur- ring after labor, or from the introduction of septic instruments into the uterus. A purulent salpingitis may run a chronic course of a catarrhal type, simply thickening the walls of the tubes and causing the formation of adhesions about them, the tubes remaining patent and draining into the uterus, and a purulent endometritis being associated with the tubal disease. More com- monly, however, the connection with the uterus is obstructed and the tube is distended by the accumulating purulent secretion. The open end of the tube at the fimbriated extremity is closed very early by adhesions, and the result is a pus-sac formed by the distended and usually convoluted walls of the tube which are firmly adherent to all the parts about it, and especially to the ovary—pyosalpinx. In milder cases the disease may not progress so far as to produce a pus-sac, but may cause obliteration of the uterine extremity of the tube, and then blood and serum may collect in the latter. In the former case we have hematosalpinx, in the latter hydrosalpinx. In connection with inflanimation of the tubes, abscesses are occasionally found in the pelvis developing in the peritoneal cavity or in the cellular tissue, or involving the ovary. Occasionally these abscesses discharge externally beneath Poupart's ligament, or pass out through the obturator or sciatic foramen, but more frequently they burst into the vagina, the rectum, or the bladder. Pyosalpinx.—Symptoms.—A patient with salpingitis, even of the mildest type, is liable to attacks of local peritonitis, especially at the time of the menstrual flow, and may have constant pain, increased by motion, sexual intercourse, micturition, and defecation, and sometimes shooting down the lower extremities owing to the pressure on the nerves. There may also be frequent micturition and constipation from pressure on the bladder and rectum, often associated with a slight septic condition, as shown by anaemia and an irregular rise of temperature. The temperature, however, is a very uncertain guide to the presence of pus in these cases, for even when there is a large amount of pus the temperature may be perfectly normal. There are various disturbances of menstruation, such as mon- orrhagia, dysmenorrhea, and too frequent menstruation, or, if anaemia is present, the flow will be scanty and infrequent. Leucorrhoea is the rule, and pressure upon the appendages and uterus may cause a slight bloody, purulent discharge from the latter. The patient is generally but not in- variably sterile. Pelvic examination shows the uterus more or less fixed, often retroverted, and pain is caused by attempts at motion. Indurated masses are felt on one or both sides and perhaps in Douglas's cul-de-sac, which are immovable and usually tender. All the pelvic organs may be fused into one mass, so that nothing can be distinguished, and the position of the uterus can be determined only by the passage of the sound.