227 POWDER BURNS. forms of electrical instruments have been devised to determine the presence and locate the position of balls in gunshot wounds, and of these the most satisfactory is the telephonic probe of Girdner. When the FlG- 163- bullet has been located it may be removed through the wound of entrance, or by making a counter-opening where it oc- cupies a position near the skin Bullet forceps_ and can be reached without much division of the tissues. The form of bullet forceps most convenient for use is that shown in Fig. 163. Symptoms.—The symptoms following a gunshot wound will vary with the location of the wound, the nature of the missile, and the extent of injury to the various tissues. Shock is a prominent symptom in gunshot wounds involving the great cavities of the body or those accompanied by extensive laceration of the soft parts with comminution of the bones. Pain is not usually a prominent symptom in gunshot wounds, and may be so slight that the patient often does not appreciate that he has been injured. Hemorrhage.—Primary hemorrhage from gunshot wounds is not often ex- cessive unless a large vessel has been wounded, so that if free bleeding occurs from such a wound it is well to enlarge the wound and search for the source of the bleeding, and when found the injured vessel should be secured by two ligatures applied upon its distal and proximal ends. Secondary hemorrhage is apt to occur in gunshot wounds if large vessels have been contused and their vitality impaired, and if infection or slough- ing of the tissues takes place. If the wound remains aseptic the risks of secondary hemorrhage are much diminished. Powder Burns.—These may be received from the explosion of gun- powder or fireworks, from blasting accidents, or from the discharge of pow- der from guns at close range. The wounds resulting from these injuries usually present a certain amount of laceration of the tissues in conjunction with burns. The surface is blackened, and contains numerous black points caused by particles of unburnt powder which have been driven into the skin and cellular tissue. These wounds, as a rule, are not serious, unless they involve large surfaces of the body or involve the eyes: in the former case the symptoms following extensive burns may be presented. Treatment.—The injured surface should be washed over with soap and water and then with a solution of bichloride or carbolic acid, and the little black particles of powder should be picked out of the tissues with the point of a needle or a bistoury ; a gauze dressing should then be applied to the part. In spite of the greatest care in the removal of the particles of powder, a certain amount of tattooing of the tissues is apt to remain. Wounds from Blasting Accidents.—Serious injuries often result from the premature explosion of blasts in which gunpowder, giant powder, or dynamite is used as the explosive. Persons employed in mines or quar- ries are apt to sustain these injuries, which result from masses or fragments