LIGATION OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 392 Fig. 297. Ligation of the Femoral Artery at the Apex of Scarpa's Triangle.—This is considered the point of election for the ligation of the femoral artery from the fact that it is farthest removed from the main collateral branch, the profunda femoris artery. Operation.—An incision should be made three inches in length, the centre of which should be a little above the point where the sartorius muscle crosses a line drawn from the middle of Pouparf s ligament to the inner condyle of the femur. The skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia having been divided, the edge of the sartorius muscle will be exposed, which may be recognized by the direc- tion of its fibres. The sartorius muscle is drawn outward and the sheath of the vessel is exposed and opened. The vein lies on the inner side of and somewhat behind the artery, and the long saphenous nerve is on the outer side. (Fig. 297.) The needle should be passed from within outward. Ligation of the Femoral Artery in Hunter's Canal.—An in- cision three inches in length should be made along the tendon of the adductor magnus, the centre of which is at the junction of the lower and middle thirds of the thigh. (Fig. 298.) The skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia having been divided, the sartorius muscle is exposed, and care should be taken not to injure the internal saphenous vein, which should be displaced. Ligation of the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle. (Agnew.) Ligation of the femoral artery in Hunter's canal. The sartorius muscle should be drawn downward, exposing the aponeurosis, which forms the anterior wall of the vascular canal; this should be opened upon a director, and the artery uncovered and separated from the vein, which lies upon the outer side. The needle should be passed from without inward. Collateral Circulation.—When the femoral artery is tied below the origin of the profunda the blood finds its way to the limb below by anastomoses between the perforating branches of the profunda and the anastomotica