RACHITIS. 546 these cases. The affection runs a slow course, and it may be years before the deformity or pain is marked. Treatment.—In unilateral cases where there is distinct evidence of localized nerve-pressure, operative treatment may be undertaken, but, as a rule, where the disease is widely distributed, little can be done for the patient's relief by surgical procedures. RACHITIS, OR RICKETS. This is an affection which arises from malnutrition, being principally observed in infants and children, and is characterized by constitutional disturbances and marked changes in the bony skeleton. It is met with principally among the poorer classes, with whom improper food and im- perfect hygienic surroundings are common, but may occur among those of the better class if improper diet is employed. Children who are fed upon the breast rarely develop rickets, unless the lactation is prolonged or the milk becomes of a poor quality from a coincident pregnancy. Artificial feeding with foods which contain a large amount of starch or with skimmed milk deficient in fatty matters, and diseases of the gastro intestinal canal which impair the digestion and the assimilation of food, are also impor- tant factors in the production of this disease. In America the disease is less common, even in large cities, than abroad, aud is most commonly observed in colored and Italian children. The disease has rarely been observed as a congenital affection, but usually develops from the sixth month to the end of the second year, and may occur as late as the fifth or sixth year. Late rickets has been observed from the ninth to the thirteenth year, but at this time of life the affection is rare, and the disease in such cases is prob- ably a recurrence of rickets which had previously existed and had escaped notice or had been imperfectly cured. Pathology.—In rickets the most marked changes in the bone are ob- served at the epiphyseal junctions ; there is increased growth of the epiphys- eal cartilages and subperiosteal layers of bone in this region, with deficient deposit of lime salts and increased absorption of osseous tissue. The epi- physeal ends of the bones become rounded and swollen, so that they present marked enlargements. The cartilage on section is semi-transparent and in parts abnormally vascular. The periosteum is thickened and vascular, and when stripped from the bone contains numerous fragments of ill-formed osseous tissue, and the bone beneath is red, soft, and spongy, so that it can be readily cut with a knife. In this softened condition of the bones, the weight of the body in walking and crawling and muscular action exaggerate the normal curves, so that marked deformities result. The limited growth of the bones in length makes the deformities more noticeable. Rachitic deformity of the thorax, consisting in an anterior projection of the chest, with thickening or beading of the epiphyses, involving both the ribs and the cartilages, and constituting the rachitic rosary, is very common. De- formities of the spine are also common, and consist in kyphosis (Fig. 472), lordosis, and scoliosis. The skull presents the following changes : the sutures are imperfectly united, the fontanelles are enlarged or remain open ; por- tions of the skull are ossified, and other portions become very thin, so that