OLD DISLOCATIONS OF THE HUMERUS. 571 and carried a little off from the body, and an assistant should press the head of the bone upward and outward towards the articulating cavity, while the arm, still strongly extended as before, is brought down to the side. The reduction of luxatio erecta is usually easily accomplished by traction upward without changing the attitude of the limb until the head has been drawn into its socket. After-Treatment.—After reducing any form of dislocation of the shoulder, the arm should be fixed against the side of the body and the fore- arm carried in a sling for a week or ten days, or a Velpeau's bandage may be applied to secure fixation of the shoulder-joint. At the expiration of ten days the dressings should be removed and the patient should carry the arm in a sling, and be encouraged to use it, being careful not to make any violent motions of the shoulder-joint. COMPLICATIONS OF DISLOCATIONS OF THE HUMERUS. Old Dislocations of the Humerus.—Old dislocations of the humerus have been reduced after months or even years, but, as a rule, the older the dislocation the greater the difficulty in its reduction, and the manipula- tions may be accompanied by risk of injury to the axillary vessels ; this is particularly the case if marked inflammatory action followed the original displacement of the bone, and if adhesions are present between the head of the bone and the vessels in the axilla. If a patient has had the head of the humerus out for several years, does not suffer from pain, and has regained a certain amount of motion of the arm from the formation of a new articu- lation, it would be unwise to make attempts to replace it. In unreduced dislocations of recent occurrence attempts should always be made to replace the bone. To accomplish reduction the patient should be thoroughly anaesthetized, and the surgeon should seize the arm at the elbow and first rotate the head of the bone freely to break up any adhesions which may exist. After the surgeon is assured that the adhesions have been thoroughly separated, he should endeavor to reduce the dislocation by manipulation or by Kocher's method. If these fail, he should next try some of the various methods by extension and counter-extension. The principal risks in the reduction of old dislocations of the humerus are rupture of the axillary artery or vein, injury of the axillary plexus of nerves, and fracture of the neck or head of the humerus. Rupture of the Axillary Artery.—This accident has occurred during the reduction of old dislocations of the humerus. The signs which indicate this accident are a rapidly developed swelling in the axilla and under the pectoral muscles, absence of the pulse at the wrist, pallor of the face, and in some instances syncope. In such a case pressure should be applied to the subclavian vessel, and the axillary artery should be cut down upon and secured by ligatures applied on each side of the rupture. Rupture of the Axillary Vein.—This accident has also occurred during attempts to reduce old dislocations of the humerus. It is to be distinguished from rupture of the axillary artery by the facts that the patient does not exhibit the con- stitutional symptoms of loss of blood in so marked a degree as in cases of rupture of the artery, and that the radial pulse is present. If this accident