OPERATIONS UPON THE GALL-BLADDER. 936 the omentum may be arranged so as to make a funnel-shaped cavity around the wound in the duct, which is lightly packed with gauze. In such cases, if there should prove to be serious disease of the bladder, ulceration, abscess, or tumor, the organ should be extirpated. McBurney has successfully removed a calculus from the common duct by incising the duodenum and stretching or incising the intestinal orifice of the duct, and we have adopted a similar treatment in a case of a small tumor of the duodenum obstructing the duct, in which the tumor was in the duo- denal mucous membrane close to the papilla. Finally, in cases of tumor of the gall-bladder, or hydrops, or empyema, the organ should be extirpated if possible ; but if the adhesions are very strong, hydrops and empyema may be treated by drainage in the abdominal wound. Choleeystenteros- toniy should never be performed in these cases. The various methods of opening and draining the bladder and duct may be formulated as follows : 1. Cholecystotomy.—The bladder may be incised immediately after protecting the peritoneal cavity with gauze or sponges. When the stone has been removed the bladder may be drained or sutured. 2. Cholecystostomy consists in securing the bladder in the wound after it has been opened, the edges of the incision in the bladder being sutured to the edges of the abdominal wound. The abdominal wound should be sutured, except at one angle, where the peritoneum and skin of each edge should be united for a distance of about an inch, and the peritoneal surface of the gall-bladder stitched to this opening. It was formerly considered dangerous to open the bladder in the free peritoneal cavity, and it was therefore sutured in the abdominal wound, or gauze was packed down in the abdominal wound, and a delay of from twenty-four to forty-eight hours was made in order to allow adhesions to form, and then the bladder was opened ; but this operation in two acts is now seldom considered necessary. 3. Cholecystendyse.—When the bladder is healthy, and there is no obstruction in the biliary passages, it is possible to suture the organ and drop it back into the abdomen. This proceeding, also called u ideal chole- cystotomy," has the great advantage of securing primary union of the entire wound and saving the patient from the liability of a permanent and annoying fistula, for in about one-fifth of the cases cholecystostomy is fol- lowed by a fistula discharging bile and mucus. The suturing of the bladder, while suitable for only comparatively simple cases, appears to be a safe procedure, the mortality being even less than in cholecystostomy. 4. Cholecystectomy.—Extirpation of the gall-bladder was first sug- gested because gall-stones are formed in that organ, and it was supposed that its removal would effect a permanent cure. It is true that stones are formed in the ducts and in the liver also, but this occurs so rarely that it need scarcely be taken into account. On the other hand, relapses after the ordinary methods of treatment are certainly not common, and the removal of the gall-bladder adds to the danger of the operation. But if the gall- bladder is the seat of diffuse suppuration, a deep ulcer, or a tumor, it is de- sirable that it should be removed. The operation is done by dissecting the organ free with the finger, for it is usually very adherent in these cases, then