SHELL WOUNDS. 231 comminution of the bone. The treatment of gunshot fracture will be con- sidered under fractures ; bullet wounds penetrating the chest, the abdomen, or the skull, and those involving the joints, will be considered under Injuries of Special Parts. Treatment.—In a flesh wound produced by a bullet, where the ball has passed through the tissues and escaped, the skin surrounding the wound should be sterilized by washing with soap and water and with bichloride solution, and if there is no evidence that important vessels have been injured, as shown by the small amount of bleeding, the wound should be dressed with a gauze dressing. If, however, the ball remains in the tissues, and can be located without difficulty by palpation, or with the finger or a probe introduced into the wound, it should be removed, and the wound dressed as previously described. If there be free bleeding from the wound, it should be enlarged and the injured vessel sought for and ligated. Large Shot or Shell Wounds.—These very serious injuries are met with only in military practice, and produce extensive lacerated and con- tused wounds, and often the destruction of considerable portions of the body. The injuries resulting from blasting accidents seen in civil practice often closely resemble those produced by the explosion of shells. Many of these injuries are fatal at the time of their infliction, particularly if the trunk or the head is involved. If the extremities, however, are involved, the patient may survive the injury, although amputation may be required. Extensive laceration by large shot or fragments of shells may be followed by gangrene and secondary hemorrhage, and either of these causes may bring about a fatal termination. Treatment.—If shock is a prominent symptom, its treatment deserves the first attention; the dressing of the wound is that of a lacerated or contused wound, and if amputation is required it should be done as soon as the reaction from shock has taken place. In shell wounds any foreign bodies present in the wound should be removed, the wound irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, a drainage-tube introduced, and a gauze dressing applied. Complications following such wounds, as gangrene and secondary hemor- rhage, should be treated as described under the treatment of these affections arising from other causes. Gunshot Wounds of Special Tissues.—Skin.—The skin in gun- shot injuries may be contused, lacerated, or penetrated, according to the velocity of the ball and the angle at which it strikes. In the case of balls moving with little velocity the elasticity of the skin may prevent its lacera- tion, although the subcutaneous tissues may be severely contused or crushed. The wound in the skin is apt to be small, so that drainage from the deeper parts of the wound is not free, and if suppuration occurs it may be necessary to enlarge the wound to provide free drainage. Fasciae.—Wounds of the fasciae produced by modern balls of high velocity result in perforation or separation of the fibres of the fasciae, the wounds contracting after the passage of the ball and leaving little opening for drainage.