FRACTURE OF THE CORONOID PROCESS. 472 olecranon, although there may be a certain amount of disability imme- diately following the repair of the fracture, in a short time the function of the arm is usually satisfactorily regained. Fig. 392. Dressing for fracture of the olecranon process of the ulna. Fracture of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna.—This fracture is an extremely rare one. In one hundred and thirty cases of fracture of the ulna admitted to the Pennsylvania Hospital three fractures of the coro noid process were recorded. We have seen recently a case in which this fracture unquestionably existed. (Fig. 393.) It is produced by falls upon Fig. 393. Fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna. the hand, which drive the process against the articular surface of the humerus, or may result from posterior dislocation of the elbow, or from violeut muscular action. Symptoms.—The most marked symptoms in this fracture are a posterior displacement of the bones of the forearm, and prominence of the detached process in front of the elbow. This displacement may be reduced by exten- sion, but upon relaxing the extending force the bones will tend to slip backward. Treatment.—Fracture of the coronoid process should be treated by first flexing the arm to a right angle and applying a primary roller from the tip of the fingers to the shoulder. A well-padded anterior angular splint should next be applied to the anterior surface of the arm and forearm. This dress- ing should be changed at intervals of two or three days, and gentle passive movements of the elbow made after two weeks. The splint should be perma- nently removed at the end of three weeks. Fracture of the Styloid Process of the Ulna.—Fracture of this process may result from direct force or may be associated with fractures of the lower end of the radius, and is probably due in the latter case to extreme tension upon the internal lateral ligament. Symptoms.—The usual signs of fracture of the styloid process of the ulna are pain, swelling, and deformity at the inner part of the wrist; when the hand is abducted the process may be seen and felt to leave the lower end of the bone, and crepitus may be obtained.