928 TREATMENT OF SUPPURATIVE PERITONITIS. and the wound closed. When it is necessary to invade the uninflanied part of the peritoneum in order to reach the encapsulated pus, the surgeon should pack gauze under the edges of the abdominal wall so as to expose the surface of the inflammatory mass but shut off the general cavity, and the abscess may then be opened and the pus discharged at once. In such cases the gauze packing must be left in place after the operation and the gauze drains inserted into the abscess between its layers. While there is some danger of causing a general peritonitis by this procedure, it is not very great, and it is seldom necessary to delay opening the pus-cavity for twenty- four hours to allow additional adhesions to form, as was once the custom. When general peritonitis exists, a median incision sufficient to permit introduction of the hand should be made low down, the pus discharged, and the cavity dried out with sponges or sterilized gauze pads as completely as possible. The original cause of the disturbance should be removed if pos- sible, other incisions being made for this purpose if it cannot be readily reached from the median one, as will frequently be the case in general peri- tonitis arising from appendicitis. All adhesions must be broken down, to discharge the pus which collects between the various loops of bowel and omentum. Particular attention must be paid to the pelvis and to the de- pressions which exist on each side of the vertebral column in the lumbar region. A long dressing-forceps is introduced through the median wound and passed into the lumbar region on each side, so as to make prominent the abdominal wall just in front of the attachment of the mesocolon, and counter-openings are made by cutting on this from without. Large drain- age-tubes are inserted in all the incisions, and the entire cavity flushed with hot sterilized water, the hand being passed back and forth to disseminate the fluid thoroughly and bring out all the pus. The patient should be rolled first on one side and then on the other, in order to discharge as much of the fluid as possible. When there is doubt whether the entire peritoneal cavity is infected, the first incision should be made in the part where it is evident that inflammation exists, and after treatment of this region as if for a localized abscess, small exploratory incisions should be made in the median line or lumbar region, the hands and instruments being sterilized again, so that in case no peritonitis is found there will be no danger of spreading the infection. Vigorous stimulation will be necessary, with elevation of the foot of the bed, and hot bottles placed about the body, in order to overcome the severe shock, these patients being often already exhausted before the opera- tion. If the patient's temperature is already high at the time of operation, a fall may be expected within a few hours. If, on the other hand, the tem- perature is low from toxic poisoning, as is seen in some cases of general peritonitis, the operation will be followed by an immediate great elevation of temperature, and this is likely to terminate in death if continued for any length of time. As soon as the shock has been overcome, the heavy dress- ing should be removed and replaced by two or three layers of gauze laid upon the abdomen, and over this the ice-coil should be applied. Enough morphine is to be given hypodermically to relieve the pain, and no attempt should be made to move the bowels for several days. This is the method