TREATMENT OF HERNIA. 987 Tlie pad may be circular or oval in shape. It is usually covered with soft leather and stuffed, or it may be a rubber sac filled with air or some fluid, but a simple pad of hard rubber or wood is also in use. The Spring.—The spring is of several varieties. The first form passes around the body on the ruptured side, behind the back, and across to the opposite sacro-iliac articulation. (Figs. 797 and 798.) The second form of spring crosses in front from the ruptured side to the opposite and around the body to the sacro iliac articulation upon the ruptured side, thus in- cluding about three-quarters of the circumference of the pelvis. (Fig. 795.) The third form is a spring which crosses Fig. 795. the front of the body and is open behind, Truss for right inguinal hernia, spring crossing Double truss, spring open behind, the body. articulations (Fig. 796); or a spring which is open in front, passing around the body from behind and carrying a pad at each end, thus leaving the space over the pubes free. The third form is employed for double hernia. In both the single forms mentioned the spring is of a slightly spiral shape, the point of pressure at the back being decidedly above that at the femoral or inguinal ring, and the spring should lie about midway between the crest of the ilium and the trochanter. The spring is made of steel of low temper, so that it can be easily bent in the hands, and is covered with leather, hard rubber, or celluloid. The two latter must be dipped in hot water if it is necessary to alter their shape. The spring known as the French truss (Fig. 797) has little stiffness, but is shaped to fit the body exactly, and maintains Fig. 797. French truss for right inguinal hernia. a continuous gentle pressure ; while the German truss (Fig. 798) is very stiff, but does not fit very closely, and therefore simply resists when the hernia tends to descend against the pad. The strength of the spring must be suited to the individual case, a very light spring being usually sufficient if