ECTOPIC AND UNDESCENDED TESTICLE. 1141 stood, but as it proceeds the gubernaculuni shortens, and the latter is supposed to guide the gland to its proper position. The testicle enters the inguinal canal by the internal ring, traverses its whole extent, and passes into the scrotum through the external ring, bringing down the spermatic cord and leaving it in its track. As the testicle advances it pushes before it a pouch of peritoneum which covers its anterior surface and is known as the vaginal process. When the testicle has reached the scrotum the neck of this process of peritoneum is completely obliterated by natural contrac- tion, and the serous lining of the abdomen, seen from within, normally presents a flat surface at the internal ring, with no trace of the previous pouch. The lower end of the protruded serous membrane forms the tunica vaginalis, surrounding the testicle and extending a variable distance up the cord towards the external ring. A thorough understanding of this method of descent is also important for a proper comprehension of the varieties of hernia. Ectopic and Undescended Testicle.—The testicle should have reached the scrotum and the vaginal process should be closed at birth. The descent of the testicle may, however, be delayed so that it FlG> 860- will lie at the external ring or in the inguinal canal until much later, and in some cases it is re- tained there, or even within the abdomen, throughout life. In still other cases it may be found lodged in the perineum or in the groin (Fig. 860), probably because it has followed the fibres of the gubernaculum leading thither. When the testicle remains within the abdomen it is said to be re- tained or undescended. When it is not in its natural position, but has passed out of the abdomen, it is said to be ectopic An ectopic or retained testicle is usually more or less atrophic or undeveloped, being composed largely of connective tissue. A retained testicle is more likely to be well developed than an ectopic one, but even in such cases it is very liable to malignant disease. Inflammation of an ectopic testicle, especially if it lies in the inguinal canal, is apt to be very severe and to cause great pain on account of the additional tension due to its confinement by strong fibrous structures. The testicle in this position is also liable to malignant disease. Undescended testis is frequently combined with hernia, as has already been mentioned. Treatment.—An ectopic testicle which causes no symptoms is best left untouched unless there appears to be a reasonable chance of placing it in the scrotum. If inflamed, or threatening to form a tumor, it .should be re- Ectopic testicle. The left testicle is on the fascia lata below Poupart's ligament, and the right half of the scro- tum contains the right testicle and an inguinal hernia.