724 OPERATIONS UPON THE SKULL AND BRAIN. sixth, seventh, and twelfth nerves without any preceding signs of irritation. Anaesthesia is common, and hemiplegia may be accompanied by rigidity, while convulsions are comparatively rai'e. There may be symptoms of com- pression, due to acute hydrocephalus. It is impossible to distinguish be- tween tumors of the cortex and those just below it in the centrum ovale and the ventricles. The exact situation of a tumor near the cortex may be de- termined when it involves one of the well-known motor centres, by aphasia if the lesion is on the left side, and sometimes by partial anaesthesia. In the occipital region hemianopsia may be present. Tumors of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe have no local symptoms, except occasionally word-deafness. A tumor in the cerebellum (which is generally tubercular) may be suspected when the symptoms develop very rapidly, with a staggering gait. Treatment.—Eemoval by operation is the only possible treatment for tumors of the brain, with the exception of gumma, and even gumma should be removed when it proves obstinate to the usual remedies. Of six hun- dred cases of intracranial tumors only six per cent, were found suitable for operation by Starr, and other observers agree as to this percentage. An early recurrence makes operation useless for tuberculous tumors, as was the case in a solitary tubercular mass of large size removed by us. In cases of doubt as to the existence of syphilis, antisyphilitic treatment may be given for from six to eight weeks, but only when the patient's general condition remains so satisfactory that the time can be spared. An opening is made in the skull, preferably by the osteoplastic flap method, and the tumor removed, after ligation of the vessels which supply it, by ligatures passed around them in the cerebral tissue with needles. CEdenia of the brain is common after the removal of tumors, but may be prevented by absolute asepsis and the maintenance of pressure. The mor- tality of these operations appears to be about thirty per cent. The General Technique of Operations upon the Skull and Brain.—The entire scalp should be shaved, if the brain is to be exposed, and sterilized in the usual way. During all operations on the skull the patient's head should be elevated, in order to lessen the hemorrhage. Trephining.—The pin of the trephine is set so as to project slightly and made to penetrate the bone. When the crown of the trephine touches the bone it should be made to cut evenly into the latter on all sides by regular rotation, and when a groove has been cut the pin should be withdrawn. (Fig. 647.) The crown is then made to saw slowly through the bone until the diploe is divided and the inner table reached, which will be evident from the greater resistance of the latter. The groove is then very slowly deepened, and the bottom of it tested from time to time by a needle or the flat end of a probe, to deter- mine when the bone has been completely divided. If the latter is divided first on one side, the crown must be slightly tilted in the opposite direction,