RENAL CALCULUS. 1123 spleen should always be made out . Except in the case of floating kidneys, the usual dulness in the lumbar region will be present. Congenital cystic kidneys may be recognized by the fact that both kid- neys are diseased, by the uneven surface of the tumor, some of the cysts standing out above the general level, and by the complete absence of symp- toms. Hydronephrosis of the intermittent variety is recognized by the typical symptoms. Chronic hydronephrosis can be distinguished from ovarian cyst by the fact that the tumor has appeared above instead of below, and by the area of dulness on percussion extending to the flank, while aspi- ration will furnish the peculiar fluid of these cysts. The cyst will lie upon one side rather than in the middle line, and may therefore be distinguished from some pancreatic cysts, and there will be none of the signs of pancreatic disturbances of digestion. On the right side of the body they may resemble cysts of the gall bladder, and the resemblance may be increased by the simi- larity of symptoms caused by the passage of renal and biliary calculi. But the extension of the tumor into the back, the dulness on percussion over an area on the anterior surface of the cyst and continuing into the lumbar region, together with the presence of the colon on the front of the tumor, and the evident independence of the tumor from the liver, should enable the diagnosis to be made. The solid tumors of the kidney preserve more or less the shape of the organ, and the thick rounded border and hilum can often be recognized. The shape distinguishes these tumors from tumors of the spleen, which have the sharp edge of that organ and an angular notch upon the inner border. Eenal tumors seldom are tender or give rise to pain, except in the malignant varieties. They may occasion vomiting by pressure upon the stomach, or by dragging upon the attachments of the pylorus and the duodenum. Hematuria is characteristic of carcinoma, and fragments of the neoplasm may be passed with the urine. The condition of the two kidneys should always be studied separately by catheterization of the ureters by means of the cystoscope, or by Kelly's method. As many of these cases recpiire nephrectomy, it is all-important that the health of the remaining organ should be perfect. Renal Calculus.—Stone in the kidney is often of congenital origin, uric acid infarcts of the renal tubules being almost the rule in newly born infants, and if any of these crystals remain in place, not being washed out by the first flow of urine, they form a nucleus for further deposit upon which a stone may grow, although it may cause no symptoms until later in life. Eenal calculi are usually of branching shape, the main trunk lying in the pelvis, with short branches extending into the various calyces. Eenal cal- culi are composed of phosphates, calcium oxalate, or uric acid. Stones are usually confined to one kidney, but they may be single or multiple. They are more common in males than in females. Symptoms.—A calculus may remain in the kidney and attain a large size, with very few or absolutely no symptoms, but in the majority of cases there is pain upon that side and blood appears in the urine. The symptoms are increased by motion, such as rough jolting in a wagon, but attacks of pain also come on at night while the patient is resting in bed. If infection takes place through the bladder and ureter, the symptoms of pyelitis are