564 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SCAPULA. Fig. 485. Deformity in downward dislocation of the acromial end of the clavicle. (Agnew.) end of the bone in place has been practised with advantage. We therefore think it is well in persistent cases of this dislocation to cut down upon and expose the displaced bone and secure it in its normal position by heavy wire sutures. Dislocation Downward.—This is a comparatively rare accident, the acromial end of the clavicle passing between the acromion and coracoid processes. Symp- toms.—The acromion process is abnormally prominent, and a groove or gutter can be felt along its inner border; more or less disability of the arm is present, and the displaced end of the clavicle may be felt under the acromion process. (Fig. 485.) Treatment.—This displacement is reduced by manipulation, the bone being fixed in place after reduction by the applica- tion of a compress and adhesive straps or by wire sutures, and by securing the arm to the side by a Velpeau bandage. Subcoracoid Dislocation of the Clavicle.—This displacement is extremely rare, but a few cases have been reported. It is said to result from the shoulder being forced upward, outward, and backward, while at the same time the acromion process of the clavicle is driven downward. The most marked symptoms are unusual prominence of the acromion and coracoid processes, pain- and restricted motion of the arm, and an increase in the distance between the sternum aud the summit of the shoulder. Treatment. —To reduce this displacement the arm should be flexed and brought to the side and carried forcibly upward, inward, and backward to relax the clavic- ular portion of the pectoralis major muscle The clavicle should be grasped and disengaged from its position below the coracoid process and pressed back into its proper position. After reduction a Velpeau's bandage should be applied and the dressing retained from six to eight weeks. Simultaneous Dislocation of Both Ends of the Clavicle.—This very unusual dislocation has occasionally been observed, and is the result of extreme violence, in which the shoulder is pressed inward, the sternal end being usually dislocated forward and the acromial end upward. Treat- ment.— Reduction may be accomplished by drawing the shoulder strongly backward and making pressure over both the sternal and clavicular ends of the bone at the same time ; a compress should be placed over each end of the bone and secured in position by adhesive straps or bandages, and the arm secured to the side. The dressings should be retained for six or eight weeks. The results following the reduction of simultaneous dislo- cation of both ends of the clavicle have been quite satisfactory. Dislocation of the Inferior Angle of the Scapula.—This dislo- cation occurs when the latissimus dorsi muscle, which passes over the lower angle of the scapula, slips beneath the lower extremity of the bone. The