1145 TUMORS OF THE TESTICLE tions, limited to removal of the tuberculous mass by the curette or excision, may result in a cure, and primary union may often be obtained in such wounds. We have operated upon a number of cases in which the testicle could be partially preserved, and, even although the destruction of the epididymis and its ducts was considerable, some of these patients have lived active sexual lives afterwards. The decision of this question will vary with the individual surgeon, but our personal preference is for the removal of entirely disorganized testicles in any case, and removal of one testicle when that is the only discoverable tuberculous lesion in the body, or even when there is a slight lesion of one lung. Tuberculosis of the prostate and seminal vesicles, if extensive enough to be recog- nized, usually contra-indicates castration for the sake of a radical cure. In all other cases partial operations are to be attempted. In every case the advantages of a healthy life in a good climate should be sought for by the patient. Syphilitic disease of the testicle has been sufficiently described else- where. It is almost invariably an orchitis, and produces large, hard, smooth tumors, heavy but not painful or tender, and of very slow growth. Tumors.—Benign tumors of the testicle are rare, but fibroma, myoma, lipoma, and chondroma have been reported, the latter being the most common. These tumors are either of such small size that they are of no clinical importance or come to the surgeon with no other symptoms than the weight of the heavy tumor which inconveniences the patient. The large tumors are almost invariably chondroma, and are undoubtedly due to the development of congenitally misplaced fragments of foetal tissues. They are often mixed in character, and tend to sarcomatous degeneration. Small myomata, both of striped and unstriped muscular fibres, making nodules from the size of a hazel-nut to a walnut, have been observed attached to the epididymis, where, in their early stages, they may be mistaken for a chronic epididymitis. Small lipomata have been observed in the substance of the testicle, but most of the cases of lipoma reported are, properly speaking, lipoma of the cord, having developed from the cord and surrounded the testicle, which is often found practically unchanged in the centre of a huge mass of fat. Cysts.—Large cysts of the testicle are almost invariably a part of sarcomatous disease, and require removal of the testicle. Small serous cysts with thin walls, sessile or pedunculated, often multiple, are found connected with the epididymis, containing a thin serous fluid, and very rarely spermatozoa. They occur after middle life, and never attain a diameter of over half an inch. They appear to be similar in pathology to the involution cysts of the mamma, and are of little importance. Sper- matic cysts or spermatoceles are larger than these subserous cysts, and attain a diameter of two inches or more. They are sometimes multilocular, also originate from the epididymis, usually between its upper part and the body of the testicle, and contain a milky fluid with spermatozoa. They are either retention cysts or arise from some foetal remains of testicular sub- stance, such as the organ of Giraldes. The treatment of these cysts consists in evacuation with a hypodermic syringe, and, if a second treatment is necessary, the injection of a drop of iodine or half a drop of carbolic acid t