489 COMPOUND FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. plaster of Paris splint to the foot, leg, and thigh, extending from the meta- tarsal bones to the tuber ischii. In applying the plaster of Paris bandage in the ambulant treatment of these fractures the foot is placed at a right angle to the leg and is well padded with a number of layers of cotton ; the plaster of Paris bandage is then applied directly to the skin from the meta- tarsal bones to the knee, five or six thicknesses of bandage being employed ; this is allowed to become partially firm ; the patient is then placed with the pelvis elevated, and extension is made from the plaster cast and by pulling upon the chest from above. When the deformity has been corrected and the legs are of equal length, a plaster of Paris dressing is applied from the knee to the tuber ischii and the gluteal folds, and turns of the bandage are made, so as to include the thigh and extend as far as the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Oblique turns of the bandage are made from the thigh over the lower portion of the abdomen and back again to the thigh, and the plaster bandage may be strengthened by narrow strips of veneer or bass- wood splinting incorporated with the layers of plaster. The extension is maintained upon the limb until the plaster bandage has firmly set. The patient is allowed to get up upon the following day, and to walk, first with crutches, then with a cane, and finally without either of these appliances, placing his weight upon the foot of the injured leg. We do not think that this method of treatment of fractures of the thigh is to be recommended unless the surgeon has the patient under constant supervision. Compound Fractures of the Femur.—Compound fractures of the femur involving any portion of the bone are most serious injuries, and in many cases where the main blood-vessels are injured, or where there is much comminution of the bone or involvement of the knee-joint, primary amputation or excision may be required. However, if the main blood- vessels have escaped injury, and the wound is carefully sterilized and good fixation of the fragments can be secured, many cases recover with useful limbs. If it is found that there is comminution, and there are present in the wound loose fragments, these should be removed. We bad recently under our care a compound comminuted fracture of the femur in which a fragment an inch and a half in length was entirely separated. This was removed, and the patient made a good recovery, with a proportionate amount of short- ening. In cases of compound fracture of the femur where amputation is not considered, the patient should be anaesthetized, and, after carefully sterilizing the wound and reducing the displacement by extension and manipulation, primary fixation of the fragments should be made by drilling the bone and securing the fragments in position by heavy silver wire sutures, or by the use of perforated silver splints secured by screws. The wound should then be drained and closed by a few sutures. A copious antiseptic dressing should be applied, and fixation of the fragments at the seat of fracture, as well as of the leg, the knee-joint, and the hip-joint, secured by the applica- tion of a plaster of Paris dressing extending from the foot to the pelvis. If for any reason the plaster of Paris dressing is not considered advisable after the dressing of the wound, a dressing similar to that employed in simple fractures of the shaft of the femur, consisting of extension and lateral sup- port by means of bran-bags and splints, or sand-bags, may be applied.