740 DEFORMITIES OF THE NOSE. fore, the septum should always be inspected, and if a haeraatoraa be found it should be evacuated promptly by incision. Deformities.—The rare congenital deformities of the nose have al- ready been considered. The acquired deformities may involve either the bones or the soft parts. The nostrils may be occluded as a result of cica- tricial contraction from ulcers due to tuberculosis or syphilis. The whole organ may be driven to one side by a severe blow and fixed in this position, or the bridge may be depressed or the septum deflected as the result of frac- ture. Curvature of the septum may be caused by irregular development. Necrosis is usually of syphilitic origin, and may result in the loss of all the bony framework, and the soft parts may also be destroyed. The removal of tumors may compel the partial or complete destruction of the organ. Treatment.—Many of the deformities of the nose are capable of cor- rection by operation, and when the soft parts are intact it is essential, if possible, that this be done without an external wound. It is feasible to divide the bones by means of small saws or fine chisels inserted through an internal or a very small external wound, and, having divided them, to keep them in place by the apparatus described under fractures of the nasal bones until they become ossified in their proper position. Deflected Septum.—A badly deformed septum can be forcibly cor- rected by strong forceps and held in place by a long, stout pin. The latter is driven into the frontal bone or vomer, so that it lies on one side of the septum. Or the cartilage can be cut away on the side towards which it pro- jects and be removed. In the latter operation a small incision is made in the mucous membrane, the mucous membrane and the perichondrium are separated from the cartilage, and the latter is divided with a strong knife. A small elevator is passed through this opening and the perichondrium stripped up on the other side, when the cartilage can again be divided at the upper part of the incision and removed. The wound is limited to one side of the septum, in order to avoid the formation of a permanent opening between the two nostrils. It was at one time suggested that by making a permanent opening in the septum the air would pass through both nostrils and the functional effect of the deformity would be removed ; but experience has shown that the edges of the opening are liable to ulcerate, and that crusts collect about it and produce a constant irritation which annoys the patient more than the deformity of the septum. Before operating upon the bones, particularly in operations without external incisions, the greatest care must be taken to make the interior of the nose healthy and free from septic material, because the bones lie in such intimate connection with the base of the brain that any infection producing an inflammation of the veins might easily extend backward within the skull and result in a fatal menin- gitis or abscess. Restoration of the Nose.—When the bones of the nose have been lost by disease or accident they can be restored by various plastic operations, or their place can be taken by apparatus fitted to support the soft parts. In some cases satisfactory results have been obtained by inserting celluloid or metal supports, shaped like a spindle, between the skin and the mucous membrane, so as to restore the external outline of the organ. Often the soft