1023 ULCERATION OF THE RECTUM. hemorrhoids, considering it much less painful and rally as safe and efficient as the ligature. Excision.—This method was introduced by Whitehead, and is a very radical one, as it completely removes the whole pile-bearing area. In this operation an incision is made around the anus a little inside of the junction of the skin with the mucous membrane, and the latter with the hemorrhoidal tumors is dissected uj) until the upper limit of the hemor- rhoids is passed, when they are removed by a circular incision. Vessels which bleed are clamped with haemostatic forceps or tied during the opera- tion. Weir cuts through some of the hemorrhoidal tissue in the first steps of the operation, instead of dissecting it off, as the piles invade the sub- mucous connective tissue. After all bleeding has been arrested, the wound is irrigated with a bichloride solution, and the mucous membrane is brought down and sutured to the edge of the mucous membrane below by a number of interrupted sutures of catgut or silk. It is important to approximate the edges of the mucous membrane accurately, and if any bleeding occurs be- tween the stitches a few additional points of suture should be introduced. A pad of gauze should next be applied and held in place by a T-bandage. The after-treatment is similar to that employed in case of the ligature or the clamp and cautery, with the exception that the bowels should be kept quiet for a longer time, usually a week. If any skin is removed, the mucous membrane, after healing has occurred, extends beyond the edge of the anus, and is apt to be irritated by the clothing and cause the patient discomfort; and if primary union does not take place, and the wound heals by granu- lation, stricture of the anus is apt to occur. The results obtained by this method, if carefully done, are excellent; but the operation requires consid- erable time, and there is often a large quantity of blood lost, so that we do not think it possesses sufficient advantages over the operation by the ligature or by the clamp and cautery to render its general adoption advisable. Electrolysis has also been successfully employed in the treatment of hemorrhoids, and does not require general anaesthesia or confinement to bed. The method of its application is similar to that employed in the treatment of naevus. It requires the use of special apparatus, and is not very generally practised. Hemorrhage.—One of the most serious complications after operations for hemorrhoids is hemorrhage. When this occurs, ice should be inserted into the rectum, or it should be packed with iodoform gauze around a large rubber catheter, which will permit the escape of flatus; if the bleeding- still continues, the patient should be anaesthetized, the cavity of the rectum exposed by the use of a speculum, and the bleeding point found and secured by ligature, or cauterized with a hot iron or the Paquelin cautery. ULCERATION OF THE RECTUM. Ulceration of the rectum of a non-malignant character may arise from a number of causes, and is classified as follows: 1, traumatic; 2, catarrhal; 3, tuberculous ; 4, syphilitic ; 5, dysenteric. Traumatic Ulceration.—This condition may arise from wounds acci- dentally received, or those inflicted upon the rectum in surgical operations,