986 TREATMENT OF HERNIA. error can occur only from carelessness, the symptoms being very different. Psoas abscess may closely resemble a femoral hernia, especially as it may present an impulse on coughing and may be partly reducible, but it usually lies on the outer side of the femoral vessels. Fluctuation, moreover, is dis- tinct, and another tumor can often be felt above Poupart's ligament, fluc- tuation being felt from one to the other. An examination of the spine or of the iliac bones will generally reveal the inflammatory origin of the ab- scess. A varicose distention of the upper part of the saphenous vein sometimes makes a protrusion in the femoral triangle resembling hernia, but it can be distinguished by the fact that it fills up from below when the femoral ring is completely occluded by strong pressure. Diagnosis of the Variety of Hernia.—The aperture through which a hernia has descended is determined by tracing back the neck. In certain cases, especially in stout individuals, it is difficult to distinguish between inguinal and femoral rupture, and in every such case the position of the tumor should be disregarded and only the position and direction of the neck considered in making the diagnosis. In femoral hernia the neck must enter below Poupart's ligament, and when this landmark cannot be felt the pubic spine must be sought, and a straight line drawn from this point to the anterior superior spine of the ilium will nearly correspond to its course. The pubic spine can be readily felt in the male by invaginating the scrotum, and in the female by putting the adductors on the stretch and searching for the spine directly above their attachment to the pubes. Suspected Strangulation.—In a doubtful case with symptoms re- sembling strangulation, any suspected swelling should be examined by an exploratory incision if necessary. The presence of obturator and sciatic hernise in particular should be excluded before deciding that the strangula- tion is internal. Treatment.—Hernia, whether reducible or irreducible, can be treated by applying apparatus to retain it or prevent its growth, or by operation, and a radical cure may be obtained by either method, although more cer- tainly by operation. A spontaneous cure sometimes takes place in infancy, even without the aid of a truss, especially in inguinal hernia. Trusses.—A truss is a form of apparatus applied to retain a reducible hernia or to prevent an irreducible one from becoming larger. In from one-sixth to one-fifth of the cases a complete cure may be obtained by per- sistent and intelligent use of a good truss, but a successful result is possi- ble only when the hernia is entirely reducible, when the truss retains it perfectly, and when the rupture is never allowed to descend. Every time a hernia which has been retained by a truss passes through the canal it stretches the latter again and pushes down the sac, and the original condi- tion returns. A cure by a truss can be hoped for only in inguinal hernia in the young and in umbilical hernia in infants. Trusses for inguinal and femoral hernise are of three varieties, all of them consisting of two important parts—a pad to press upon the hernia and a spring which passes around the body to hold the pad. The Pad.—In ordinary cases the pad should be broad and flat, for a conical pad forces its point into the canal and tends to enlarge the latter.