TUMORS OF THE BLADDER. 1110 perineum to extract the stone. A suprapubic operation will seldom be necessary in the female, except in young children, and is performed in the same manner as in the male. Tumors of the Bladder.—Various tumors grow in the bladder, the most common being the papillomata and the malignant neoplasms, especially carcinoma. The villous or dendritic form of papilloma consists of masses of slender long papillae, sometimes two or three inches in length, each con- taining a blood-vessel covered by a single layer of epithelium and floating free in the urine. In the fibrous form the papillae have a solid fibrous stroma, and are thicker and shorter. A myxomatous variety has also been observed. The base of the papilloma is occasionally cprite thick and fibrous, and a carcinomatous change not infrequently takes place in this part. Pri- mary carcinoma of the bladder may be epithelioma or glandular carcinoma. It often develops at the base of the papilloma, but may originate indepen- dently in the form of a superficial ulcer which gradually eats into the wall, where the neoplasm may form masses of considerable size beneath the base of the ulcer. The bladder is more frequently involved by carcinoma of neighboring organs. Sarcoma develops in the thickness of the vesical wall, and is at first covered with normal mucous membrane, but the latter after- wards ulcerates, and the tumors are then difficult to distinguish from carcinoma, although they are not usually so hard to the touch. Symptoms.—The symptoms of tumor of the bladder are nearly the same whatever its nature, consisting in frequent micturition, bloody urine, and, if infection takes place, a cystitis of a peculiarly intense and obstinate type. The micturition in these cases is usually free unless the growth is at the neck of the bladder and plugs the orifice. The frequency is greatest in the daytime, and ceases to trouble the patient. at night, thus differing from that due to prostatic obstruction. The blood is bright blood, and usually follows at the end of micturition, being squeezed from the tumor by the final contraction. It may, however, be equally diffused in the urine, and clots are sometimes found. There may be long intervals without haema- turia. The patient becomes exhausted by the disturbance of his rest and by the loss of blood, and is usually very anaemic. Pain is an uncertain and late symptom. If infection is set up by septic instruments there is likely to be some elevation of temperature from the sloughing masses of the tumor. Fragments of the tumor are occasionally passed, especially after an exami- nation by the sound. In rare instances long papillomatous growths or poly- poid excrescences from a carcinoma have extended down the urethra, and even appeared at the meatus. In such cases there is considerable obstruc- tion to the passage of the urine and to the introduction of instruments. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of tumor of the bladder is made by excluding the presence of stone by examination with the searcher, and the searcher may in some cases detect a projecting mass upon the side of the bladder or between the instrument in the bladder and the finger in the rectum. In advanced cases of malignant disease rectal examination will show infiltration of the base of the bladder and surrounding parts ; in women digital exami- nation can be made through the dilated urethra. A parasite known as Distoma haematobium, which is found in certain countries, such as Egypt