FRACTURE OF THE SHAFT OF THE HUMERUS. 454 Fig. 358. Deformity.—The displacement in this fracture is largely confined to the lower fragment, which is drawn inward by the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. The up- ward displacement is produced by the action of the clavicular fibres of the pec- toralis major and coraco-brachialis and the biceps and triceps muscles. (Fig. 358.) Prognosis.—The functional results fol- lowing this fracture are usually very satis- factory : although some deformity may exist, examples of non-union are very rare. Treatment.—After reducing the de- formity by extension and manipulation, the treatment of this fracture, as well as of fracture of the anatomical neck or the greater tuberosity, and separation or dis- junction of the upper epiphysis of the humerus, consists in the application of a primary roller from the fingers to the shoulder, and a well-padded felt or binders' board shoulder-cap (Fig. 359), extending from the acromion process to the lower third of the humerus and enveloping about one-half of the circumference of the arm (Fig. 360), which should be held in position by the turns of a roller bandage, and finished with spica turns of the shoulder. A folded towel should next be placed in the axilla and between the arm and the side of the chest; the arm should then be brought against the chest and secured in contact with it by circular Displacement in fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, posterior view. (Ag- new.) Fig. 359. Fk;. 3iid. Shoulder-cap. Application of primary roller and shoulder-cap turns of a bandage ; the forearm should next be supported at the wrist in a sling from the neck, so that the weight of the arm and forearm may act as an extending force from the elbow. (Fig. 361.) This dressing should be renewed at intervals of two or three days, and should be retained for five or six weeks. After the third week gentle passive motion should be made at each dressing, to produce movement at the shoulder-joint. Fracture of the Shaft of the Humerus.—This fracture may take place at any point between the surgical neck and the condyles of the bone.