525 TREATMENT OF TUBERCULAR OSTEOMYELITIS. matous and sometimes red, and fluctuation can be detected; redness of the skin may be wanting, however, even when large collections of fluid can be detected. Fever is usually absent or very slightly developed, and is apt to be marked only if infection of the tuberculous tissue takes place from the presence of pyogenic organisms. If the collection of tuberculous fluid is opened or ruptures spontaneously, thin, watery fluid escapes, containing curdy and cheesy masses, with, at times, fine particles of bone, which give it a sandy or gritty feel. The sinus remaining after the escape of the fluid is lined with tuberculous granulations, which are (edematous and exuberant, and if not infected may discharge for months or years without giving the patient much pain or inconvenience. Diagnosis.—All chronic inflammations of the cancellous structures of bones are, as a rule, tubercular in their origin, and it is only in cases of chronic osteomyelitis that an error of diagnosis is likely to occur ; the latter affection is most frequently observed in young adults, and is apt to involve the articular extremity of a long bone, is slow in its progress, is more local- ized, and presents a circumscribed area of swelling, with tenderness on pressure over a limited extent of surface. Prognosis.—Although spontaneous healing of a tubercular focus of bone may occur if the patient is well nourished and the diseased material is shut off by healthy granulation-tissue and later by condensation of the sur- rounding bone, yet this is not a usual termination after caseation and lique- faction of the tuberculous products have occurred. If, however, such a termination has occurred, the patient later is liable to re-infection from the tuberculous focus, and may develop osteo-tuberculosis years after the primary attack. In cases in which there is no tendency to healing, sinuses form and con- tinue to discharge, and, unless the condition is relieved by operative treat- ment, the patient is liable to die from amyloid changes in the viscera, from exhaustion, or from general tuberculosis. Infection of a tubercular abscess by pyogenic organisms also affects the prognosis unfavorably. The prog- nosis in children and young adults affected with osteo-tuberculosis is more favorable than in those in middle life or advanced in years. Treatment.—As soon as the diagnosis of tuberculous disease of bone can be made, both constitutional and local treatment should be instituted. The former consists in improvement of the hygienic surroundings by change of climate, exercise in the fresh air, the use of a nutritious diet, and the employment of remedies which are recognized as arresting the progress of tubercular disease, iron, iodide of iron, and cod-liver oil being the most serviceable. The local treatment of bone tuberculosis consists first in rest, which is especially applicable to the early stage of the disease before caseation has occurred. The diseased part should be put as nearly as possible at absolute rest, which tends to arrest the progress of the disease and favors the process of repair. The parts should be fixed by the application of a plaster of Paris bandage, which in the case of the extremities not only protects and fixes them, but also prevents subsequent deformity by holding them in their nor- mal position. If properly applied, so that immobilization is secured, the