SPINA BIFIDA OCCULTA. 893 quent complication. When the protrusion consists of the membranes only it is called a meningocele, and when the cord is also involved it is termed a meningo-myelocele. In some cases the sac is formed of the cord itself, the cavity being the dilated central canal of the cord : such cases have been called syringo-myeloceles. The word hydrorrhachis is also used to des- ignate spina bifida. If the opening in the spinal canal is large, the sac sometimes swells up with strong respiratory efforts in crying or coughing, but pulsation is rare. Strong pressure on the sac sometimes increases the tension of the fontanelle, and may cause convulsions and signs of cerebral compression. These tumors tend to increase in size, the coverings becoming thinner, until finally they slough. This accident results in death, either from the loss of the cerebro spinal fluid or by infection of the membranes and meningitis. A spontaneous cure occurs in rare instances (Fig. 757), the tumor gradually growing smaller and the coverings over the sac gradually thickening. Spina bifida occulta is a similar condition which has been produced by an arrest of development limited to the bone, and there is no protrusion of the membranes. In these cases there is apt to be a fatty tumor over the opening in the canal, with a local overgrowth of hair, and thickening of the skin. In spina bifida occulta and in cases of spontaneous cure, symptoms sometimes develop indicating pressure upon the cord or cauda equina, such as paralysis, anaesthesia, and trophic disturbances, and the pressure has been successfully relieved by operation in a few cases of this kind. Certain rare congenital cysts and fatty tumors of the spinal canal may protrude and con- fuse the surgeon, but the cysts are usually lobulated and the lipomata are not translucent. Spina bifida is frequently associated with many other con- genital deformities, and also with hydrocephalus, and the worst prognosis is found in the latter cases. Treatment.—The treatment by injection—drawing off a drachm or two of the fluid and injecting from one-half to one drachm of tincture of iodine or iodine glycerin solution (iodine, 10 grains ; potassium iodide, 30 grains ; glycerin, 1 ounce), has been successful in about one-half of the cases. The puncture is made obliquely through the sound skin at the side of the tumor with a hypodermic needle, full aseptic precautions being observed. In this method there is danger of paralysis when the nerves are involved, of septic complications and meningitis, and of subsequent leakage of cerebro-spinal fluid. Operative removal of the tumor has also given fair results, which are constantly improving. The dangers of operation are threefold : first, the shock and loss of blood at the time of operation ; secondly, septic infection ; and, thirdly, leakage of the cerebro-spinal fluid. There is also danger of injury and permanent paralysis of the nerves which are included in the sac. The operation is most successful in pure meningoceles having a small communication with the spinal canal. It is begun by dissecting back the skin from the tumor. If the pedicle of the sac is small, it is simply ligated ; if large, the opening must be sutured, but the sac should be opened to ascer- tain whether any nerves are involved. If large nerve-trunks or the cord itself be included in the sac-wall, as proved by palpation, by seeing them through a thin sac, or by the presence of paralysis, no operation is allowable.