1103 LITHOLAPAXY. Treatment.—The medical treatment of vesical calculus is merely pal- liative, and no practical method of dissolving these stones by the adminis- tration of drugs has yet been discovered. The formation of uric acid stones can be avoided by careful diet, drinking an abundance of water, the ad- ministration of alkalies and salicylates, and attention to out-door exercise. Oxalate of lime calculi demand treatment for the oxaluria if it is still present. Phosphatic calculi are always secondary to some bladder con- dition, and are not so much affected by the general health, but we have seen them increased, if not caused, by injudicious use of alkalies to relieve the frequent micturition of an hypertrophied prostate. When operation is delayed, the treatment consists in irrigation of the bladder to correct the cystitis if any is present, rest in bed, flushing out the urinary channels with diuretic drinks, correcting acidity or alkalinity of the urine, administration of salol to render the urine aseptic, and proper attention to the general health. Anodynes may be needed for pain or to secure sleep. The operations which are employed to remove calculi from the bladder are lithotrity or litholapaxy and lithotomy. Lithotrity and Litholapaxy.—The old-fashioned method of lithotrity, in which the stone was broken into pieces at several sittings and allowed to pass with the urine, has been discarded for the more thorough operation introduced by Bigelow, in which the stone is crushed at once into minute pieces and evacuated at the same time by a powerful aspirating instrument. A lithotrite is an instrument devised for the crushing of a stone, and con- sists of a male and a female blade ending in a short beak, in which the stone is seized. The blades are continued through the shaft into the handle, where a powerful screw forces them together, with a freeing device, by which the thread of the screw can at any time be thrown out so that the two blades can slide freely by each other. The female blade is fenestrated at the beak, and the male blade, which is much smaller, plays in the fenestra, both being provided with teeth on the sides which come in contact. (Fig. 847.) The Fig. 847. Lithotrite. patient should be prepared for this operation, as for lithotomy, by external sterilization and by systematic irrigation of the bladder for some days pre- vious, to render it as aseptic as possible. The condition of the kidneys should be studied, and if nephritis is present it should be corrected as far as possible by medication and diet. The patient is placed in the same position as for the use of the searcher, the bladder is irrigated, and from four to six ounces are left in when the lithotrite is introduced. A general anaesthetic is usually to be employed, although it is possible to perform the operation with the assistance of cocaine, a four per cent, solution being introduced into the bladder, allowed to remain for five minutes, and washed out again before proceeding with the operation. The use of cocaine, how- ever, in this manner is not entirely free from danger, and a general anaes-