TREATMENT OF CARCINOMA. 125 of the growth. The results of treatment depend upon the duration of the tumor at the time of operation. In order to obtain a cure the operation must be done, if possible, in the very first stage of the disease, before the lymphatics have been involved. In the breast, cures may be expected in the majority of cases when the glands are not involved, but after the latter are diseased only a very small proportion can be cured. In fact, it is de- sirable to make the diagnosis of impending malignant disease and to treat it before it fully develops. This may be done in the case of epithelioma of the skin by removing warts which show signs of irritation, patches of seb- orrhoea which are beginning to ulcerate, or chronic ulcers of the leg which show induration of their edges. The breast should also be removed after the menopause when it is the seat of chronic mastitis and similar conditions. Comparatively small operations under these circumstances will result in the permanent cure or prevention of malignant disease. Treatment.—The treatment of carcinoma consists in radical removal not only of the original tumor but of all the involved lymphatic glands and, if possible, the intervening parts through which the lymphatic vessels run. The reason is evident from the description already given of the mode of ex- tension of the growth, and the rule holds in spite of the rare instances in which enlarged glands have been left at the time of operation on the origi- nal tumor and have been observed to disappear afterwards, or the cases in which the intermediate tissue has been left, the tumor and glands having been removed, and yet no recurrence has taken place. The enlargement of the glands noted in the first-mentioned cases was undoubtedly inflammatory and not true malignant infection, and the success in the second class of cases is to be ascribed to the fact that the lymphatic vessels had escaped con- tamination although the glands had been involved. The boundaries of the growth of carcinoma are not easy to determine with the naked eye, there- fore abundant allowance should be made by removing with the tumor a wide zone of the healthy tissue in its neighborhood. The amount of healthy tissue to be removed will depend upon the size of the tumor and its situation, while a knowledge of the anatomy of the lymphatics and blood- vessels will indicate the direction in which the greater amount of tissue must be removed. In general it may be said that infected or adherent skin must be avoided by at least an inch in the removal of large tumors, and half that distance in the removal of small ones. We may venture to leave a margin of only one-quarter of an inch in minute epitheliomata of the face, where scarring is of importance, but in larger tumors or in other situations not less than half an inch will answer. The fibrous layers of aponeuroses sometimes form a natural barrier to the neoplasm ; thus, in the breast, the fascia over the pectoral muscle will often prevent extension inward. In every case, therefore, this fascia should be removed, being treated as if it were the capsule of the tumor, for the muscle underneath is usually sound unless the tumor has become evidently adherent. In the limbs when there is extensive involvement of the soft parts and the glands are clearly infected, amputation should be done, if possible, above the mass of involved glands, as it is not safe to leave the intermediate tissue. While, as a rule, it is unwise to attempt any operation on tumors which