549 CHAPTER XXI. SURGERY OP THE JOINTS. INJUKIES OF JOINTS. Contusions of Joints.—Contusions of joints resnlt from blows or falls, and the damage done to the joint structures varies with the amount of force employed and the character of the articulation. Severe contusions may be followed by laceration of the ligaments and synovial membranes, detach- ment of the cartilages, and injury of the articular ends of the bone, aud at the same time the joint becomes distended with blood, while in slight con- tusions the only injury done to the joint may consist in a bruising of the periarticular tissues, with slight extravasation of blood. Slight contusions of joints in healthy subjects are usually rapidly recovered from, but in weak or tuberculous subjects such an injury may be the exciting cause of a destructive tuberculous affection of a joint, or in other cases of abscess or necrosis of the ends of the bones, or of a sarcoma. In patients advanced in years, contusion of the joints, even when slight, may be followed by a form of chronic arthritis, with roughening of the articular surfaces and calcareous deposits, and in some cases absorption of the articular ends of the bones may result, giving rise to loss of function and shortening, as has been observed in the hip-joint. In severe contusions with laceration of the ligaments, synovial mem- branes, and articular cartilages, and effusion of blood and serum into the joint, the effusion may be gradually absorbed, but masses of fibrous material are apt to be left, which interfere with the motion of the joint, producing more or less ankylosis; if the articular cartilages have been detached and have undergone absorption, bony ankylosis may result. Severe contusions may also be followed by gangrene of the damaged and distended skin and sub- cutaneous tissues over the joint, or suppuration may occur in the joint, even if the skin is not injured ; in such cases the pyogenic microbes gain access to the joint by means of the blood-vessels, their point of entrance in many cases being undiscernible, suppuration in these cases being probably determined by the diminished resistance of the tissues at the point of injury. Treatment.—In view of the fact that slight contusions of joints are often followed by serious consequences, all contusions, whether slight or severe, should receive careful attention. The first indication in the treatment of such injuries is to put the joint at rest, by the application of a splint or by placing the patient in bed ; elastic pressure by means of a rubber or flannel bandage, or cold by means of an ice-bag, or cold irrigation, may also be employed with advantage : in some cases warm applications are more com- fortable to the patient and are followed by equally good results. After the