LYMPHANGITIS. 314 and occlude the lymph-vessels, and is then known as true elephantiasis, or elephantiasis Arabuni. (Fig. 252.) In many cases this hypertrophy is present at birth or develops immediately after, implying a congenital oc- clusion or insufficiency of the lymph-channels. The dilated lymphatic vessels are rarely large enough to be of importance externally, for the so- called lymph-sacs of the neck develop from lymphangiomatous tumors and are cysts rather than dilated vessels. Internally, however, cysts of large size may form in the mesentery from dilatation of the chyle-vessels, giving the usual symptoms of abdominal cysts and necessitating operation. Lymphatic Fistulse.—When a large lymphatic vessel is divided it sometimes fails to heal, and a fistula is produced, which discharges lymph upon the surface of the skin. The most common situation of lymphatic fistula? is in the groin. They are of little clinical significance apart from the annoyance caused by the constant moisture of the parts. A fistula of the thoracic duct is sometimes the result of its rupture or division, and may cause an effusion of chyle and death by starvation unless there be an anastomosis with the other side sufficient to carry on the transmission of the chyle into the veins, for no surgical treatment of the injury is possible. Lymphangitis.—Inflammation of the lymphatics, or lymphangitis, may occur in the acute or the chronic form, with or without a perilymphangitis. When the superficial vessels are affected, a pink line, associated with local- ized tenderness, marks their course upon the skin, such as is so frequently seen extending up the arm from an infection in the hand. A deep lym- phangitis may give no signs externally. In the chronic form the vessel is felt as an insensitive cord, in which the beads produced by its valves can sometimes be distinguished, rolling under the finger beneath the skin, the condition being often found in the penis in syphilis. The inflammation may end in resolution, or result in numerous points of suppuration. The treatment consists in wet dressings or poultices in the acute stage, and counter-irritation with iodine or the thermo-cautery in the chronic. The part must be placed at rest, any limb which may be affected being secured on a splint. Lymph-Nodes.—The lymph-nodes, known also as glands or ganglia, act as filters, arresting solid particles, bacteria, and even the chemical im- purities of the lymph, and purifying the latter as it passes through them. They are, therefore, often involved in any infectious disease, although they seem to possess great resisting powers to infection and prevent the spread of the disease to parts beyond, or at least hinder its advance until they are themselves overwhelmed by the poison. When their resisting power is overcome, in suppurative inflammations they form abscesses, in the chronic granulation-inflammations they become infiltrated with tuberculous or syphilitic tissue, and in neoplasms they develop the characteristic tissue of the tumor concerned. Even in this condition of surrender to the inva- sion, prompt removal of the original lesion (inflammatory or neoplastic), together with the lymph-nodes affected, will often prevent generalization of the disease. Inflammation.—Inflammatory enlargement of the glands, or lymph- adenitis, whatever its cause, is shown by the growth of those glands which