846 (EDEMA OF THE GLOTTIS. ually increasing difficulty in respiration are the most marked symptoms. In all these cases the lips, tongue, cheeks, and pharynx will show evidence of the action of the irritant; in scalds, these parts are first white, and the mucous membrane soon becomes congested ; a very similar appearance may be presented from the application of escharotics. Dyspnoea is due to oedema of the mucous membrane of the epiglottis and larynx, preventing the en- trance of air, which, if not relieved, soon produces death by asphyxia. If death from asphyxia is averted, these cases may terminate fatally later from bronchitis, from pneumonia, or from stenosis resulting from cicatricial contraction. Treatment.—In cases where the scald or burn has not been severe and the dyspnoea is not marked, the patient should be placed in bed, cold compresses or an ice-bag being applied to the neck, and the patient should inhale the vapor from a steam spray. Under this treatment in mild cases recovery may take place. If, however, the difficulty in breathing is marked when the patient is first seen, or is gradually increasing in spite of the treatment which has been described, the sooner an operation is under- taken to relieve the dyspnoea the better will be the patient's chances of recovery. The operation indicated in these cases is tracheotomy or intuba- tion of the larynx ; the former we think the wiser procedure, for intubation is not likely to be of service if the epiglottis is involved, though it may be of service if the oedema is confined to the mucous membrane of the larynx. These operations relieve the dyspnoea, and are often followed by recovery ; but a certain number of cases, even after the obstruction to breathing is removed, die of congestion of the lungs, bronchitis, or pneumonia. CEdema of the Glottis.—This affection, characterized by the effusion of serum in the submucous connective tissue of the epiglottis, the larynx, or the vocal cords, rarely involving the larynx below the cords, may arise from various causes. CEdenia of the glottis may develop rapidly after burns or scalds of the epiglottis or larynx, or may follow wounds of the base of the tongue, impaction of foreign bodies in the larynx, fracture of the hyoid bone or cartilages of the larynx, or caustic applications to the larynx. It may appear as a secondary complica- tion of acute or chronic laryngitis, of acute tonsillitis, of syphilitic or tuberculous ulceration of the larynx, or of carcinoma of the larynx. CEdema may also arise in the course of chronic nephritis, measles, scarlet fever, ery- sipelas, or cellulitis of the neck. Symptoms.—These may develop rapidly or slowly, and consist of pain and discomfort in the region of the larynx, suppression of the voice, a constant cough, un- attended with expectoration, and stridor in breathing, especially in inspiration. Dyspnoea and dysphagia de- velop, and in extreme cases, as the dyspnoea becomes urgent, the face is cyanosed, the eyeballs protrude, and the patient presents a marked picture of mental and physical distress. If the conditions are not relieved by operation, the patient soon dies of suffocation. The diagnosis of oedema of the glottis may be made by inspection of the parts with a laryngoscope, or, CEdema of the glottis. (Agnew.)