ULCERATION OF THE PALATE. 776 the cavity should be washed out with peroxide of hydrogen until the sinus is healed. If the abscess arises from a diseased tooth, this should receive treatment. Syphilitic Affections of the Hard and the Soft Palate—These are common in the secondary and tertiary stages of the disease. The lesions observed in secondary syphilis are mucous patches and superficial ulcera- tions. The chief lesions of the hard palate in tertiary syphilis are gummata, which originate either in the periosteum of the palate or in the floor of the nose, and perforate the bony roof of the palate, causing a marked change in the character of the voice, and permitting food and fluids to pass into the nasal cavities. Gummata are apt to be situated in the median line of the palate, and if they break down or are opened, more or less caries and ne- crosis of the bony roof of the palate occur. Gummata of the soft palate originate in the submucosa, and often result in perforation. Treatment.—The treatment of secondary syphilitic affections of the palate consists in the use of mercury, and the local application to the mucous patches or ulcerations of a solution of nitrate of silver, gr. x to water f§i, or of a 1 to 400 bichloride solution. The use of a mouth-wash of carbolic acid and chlorate of potassium is also followed by good results. In gum- mata of the palate, iodide of potassium in doses of from gr. x to gr. xv may be followed by the rapid disappearance of the tumor. If the gumma has broken down, the same treatment should be employed, and the ulcer treated by the use of mild antiseptic washes and the application of a solution of nitrate of silver. Ulceration of the Palate.—This may involve either the hard or the soft palate, and results sometimes from operative or accidental wounds, but most commonly from syphilis. Tuberculous ulceration of the palate is also seen. The treatment of ulceration of the palate depends upon its cause. In traumatic cases the use of an antiseptic wash and the application of nitrate of silver are usually followed by good results. Syphilitic ulceration should be treated by iodide of potassium in full doses in addition to the local treatment; and in tuberculous ulceration, anti-tuberculous remedies should be employed. Necrosis and caries of the palate may result from wounds, but are most frequently the results of syphilis. In this affection the exfoliation of the bone is very slow, and if perforation of the roof of the mouth occurs, an ob- turator should be worn, or the opening may be closed by a plastic operation, a flap being slid from the palate to close the gap. ~No operative treat- ment should be undertaken until the dead bone has separated and a healthy granulating surface is present. Tuberculosis of the Palate.—Tuberculosis of the palate as a pri- mary affection is extremely rare, but it may be associated with tuberculosis of the lungs, tongue, or pharynx, or with lupus of the nose, and may in- volve either the soft or the hard palate. When the soft palate is involved, disseminated tubercular nodules develop, which break down and form ulcers. In the hard palate the bone may be primarily affected, and ulceration of the palate and perforation of the roof of the mouth may occur. In tubercu- losis of the palate the neighboring lymphatic glands are usually involved.