683 TALIPES EQUINUS. and there is usually some abduction of the foot. (Fig. 626.) Treatment.— This condition can often be relieved by manipulation and bandaging, or by the use of a shoe with an extension sole and a brace. In severe cases, or those which have resisted other forms of treatment, the deformity may be corrected by resecting a portion of the tendo Achillis, suturing the ends Fig. 625. Fro. fi26. Plantar spring for flat-foot. Talipes calcaneus. together, and fixing the foot in the corrected position by a plaster of Paris bandage. After repair of the divided tendon has taken place the patient should wear for some time a shoe and brace to prevent recurrence of the deformity. PCS CavUS.—This deformity consists in marked exaggeration of the arch of the foot. It may be either congenital or acquired, but the latter form is most common. It may result from contraction of the tibialis anticus and peroneus longus muscles and of the plantar fascia, and may also result from paralysis of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. In this affection the dorsum of the foot is prominent, and in walking the patient bears his weight upon the heel and the balls of the great and little toes. (Fig. 627.) Treat- ment.—This consists in the use of a shoe with a steel plate, and in severe cases the free division of the plantar fascia and subcutaneous section of the contracted tendons may be required. After the deformity has been corrected by operative treatment the foot should be fixed in the corrected position by a plaster of Paris bandage, and subsequently a walking-shoe or a brace should be worn to prevent relapse. Talipes Equinus.—This deformity consists in an elevation of the heel, which may be so slight as merely to prevent the foot from being fully flexed beyond a right angle, or so marked as to compel the patient to walk upon the balls of the toes and the metatarsal bones. (Fig. 628.) Talipes equinus is rare as a congenital but common as an acquired affection, and results from infantile paralysis, spastic paralysis, and post-hemiplegic contractures ; con- traction of the superficial extensor muscles and relaxation or paralysis of the flexor muscles of the leg are the essential factors in its production. The deformity in severe cases is very marked; the head of the astragalus projects upon the dorsum of the foot above the astragalo scaphoid joint, and the scaphoid is subluxated. Contraction of the plantar ligaments and fascia is also well marked. Treatment.—If the deformity is moderately developed, manipulation and the use of a shoe and brace with an extension sole may serve to correct it. In severe cases, however, subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis and plantar fascia may be required before the deformity can be satisfactorily