AMPUTATIONS AT THE WRIST. 2S0 should be cut; the haud being turned into a state of pronation, a semi- circular incision should be made across its dorsal surface, three-fourths of an inch below the carpo metacarpal articulation, joining the anterior incision at the inner and outer margins of the hand. The flaps are next turned back and the metacarpal bones are disarticulated. Informal Amputations of the Fingers and Hand.—It is well for the surgeon to bear in mind the formal amputations of the fingers and hand, but, owing to the very irregular manner in which the soft parts and the bones of the fingers and hand are injured in wounds, it is often impossible to practise any of these formal amputations. In such cases the surgeon has an opportunity of displaying his ingenuity in the method of securing flaps to cover the bones after the removal of the injured parts. Partial amputa- tions of the hand, removing several of the fingers with their metacarpal bones, often leave a most useful member. If the thumb and index finger can be saved, the portion of the hand remaining is much more useful than auy artificial apparatus. In the same way, if the fingers are removed at the metacarpophalangeal articulation and the thumb can be saved, a very use- ful hand results. In cases where the thumb and little, finger can be saved, and the rest of the fingers require removal, a satisfactory result is obtained. In extensive laceration of the hand, accompanied by injuries of the fingers, where a number of fingers require amputation, if any sound skin is present upon the fingers, this should be stripped off to form a flap to cover the raw surface upon the hand. Occasionally also it is possible to shift the finger to a sound metacarpal bone where a finger has been amputated and an injured metacarpal bone has required removal. No fixed rule for these various pro- cedures can be given ; the surgeon has simply to exercise his judgment as to the best disposition of the material he has before him. After all amputations of the fingers or of the metacarpal bones the flaps should be loosely brought together with sutures, and a gauze dressing should be applied and the parts placed at rest upon a Fig. 205. palmar splint. Eepair after operations upon the hand, by reason of its great vascularity, is usually rapid. Amputations at the Wrist.—The hand should be removed at the radio-carpal joint, where it is possible, rather than by amputation above this joint, for by amputation at the wrist the motions of pronation and supination may be preserved, al- though this is not invariably the case. In disartic- ulating at the wrist it should be remembered that the styloid processes of the ulna and the radius form the inner and outer borders of the carpal arch, and that the bones of the first row of the carpus, the Radio-carpal articulation. scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform, are arranged so as to present a convex surface adapted to the concavity of the bones of the forearm. (Fig. 205.) In amputations at the wrist or those of the forearm, the bleeding is controlled by the application of a tourniquet or an elastic strap to the brachial artery at the middle of the