TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 1047 and fumigations, are impracticable, hypodermic medication should be em- ployed. The insoluble preparations are given suspended in some medium like glycerin or liquid vaseline. Calomel may be given in one-grain doses, repeated every week or two, and bichloride of mercury in one-sixth to one- tenth grain doses every day or every other day. Scrupulous attention must be paid to asepsis in preparing and giving the injection, and a careful watch kept for signs of salivation. Late in the secondary stage, or earlier in those cases of precocious syphilis which are marked by the early appearance of gummata and nervous syphilis, iodide of potassium or iodide of sodium becomes of use, and in the tertiary stage is of great benefit both alone and in combination with mercury. Starting with ten-grain doses, it may be pushed until one or two ounces a day are being taken, when the nervous or other symptoms demand it. Excessive, long-continued use of the iodides causes a condition known as iodism, in which the stomach is often much disturbed. The iodide may be given in plain water, wine of pepsin, Vichy water, or milk well diluted, two or three hours after eating. The combination of bichloride of mercury, iodide of potassium, and compound syrup of sarsaparilla is a popular one, as is also that of biniodide of mercury and potassium iodide. In hereditary syphilis, inunctions may be administered by smearing mercurial ointment on the binder, or calomel, gray powder, or bichloride of mercury may be prescribed internally. Later, the iodides are useful in combination with mercury and alone. If a syphilitic woman becomes pregnant, she should be kept under medication, in the endeavor to secure a healthy child. Simi- larly, if a pregnant woman acquires syphilis, she should be thoroughly treated, and if the diagnosis be clear from the appearance of the chancre it will be better to begin treatment at once, without waiting for the secondaries to appear. Local Treatment of Secondary and Tertiary Eruptions.—The advantage of treating generalized eruptions by fumigations and inunctions in combination with internal medication has already been emphasized. Localized secondary and tertiary eruptions should be treated locally with mercurial ointment, ammoniate of mercury ointment, oleate of mercury, etc. A solution of bichloride of mercury from two to four grains to the ounce may be painted on with advantage. Ulcerating lesions demand removal of crusts and stimulating applications, as iodoform, black wash, or dilute oint- ment of nitrate of mercury, the iodoform being especially happy in its results. In the treatment of serpiginous ulcers the following ointment, ungt. hydrarg., Siij ; ac. salicylici, gr. xij ; ungt. adhesivi, 3iv, spread upon kid and applied to the surface of the ulcer and the surrounding indurated tissues, will be found most satisfactory. The dressing should be renewed at inter- vals of twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Mucous patches on the skin should be kept clean, stimulated, and dusted with iodoform, calomel, or other powder. When present in the mouth, an antiseptic gargle may be prescribed, and the ulcers themselves touched with acid nitrate of mer- cury, pure or diluted, nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper, or a solution of chromic acid, gr. x, to water, si.