708 COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. must remain in the ventricles, because the increasing pressure closes the passages leading from them; even in the severest cases of compression an autopsy always reveals some fluid remaining in these cavities. The next effect of the pressure is to lessen the amount of blood in the brain by com- pressing the veins and even the sinuses, but this at once increases the capil- lary blood-pressure because of the increased resistance caused by the com- pressed veins. This resistance may increase without marked changes until it equals the normal arterial blood-pressure, but the moment it reaches this point no blood can enter the skull; the centres of circulation are then stimulated by the stagnation of the blood, the heart-beat becomes more forcible, the pulse growing very slow but strong, and the circulation in the brain becomes restored in spite of the increased resistance, and therefore a certain amount of blood must always remain in the cerebral vessels. It has been shown that the arterial blood-pressure in the carotids may be nearly doubled in such cases. Up to the point of increasing the normal arterial blood-pressure, then, the space occupied by the compressing body may be equalized by the less amount of blood contained in the blood-vessels. But this compensation is also limited in amount, and if the pressure is further increased the brain itself becomes compressed. As the brain is a semi- fluid body, the pressure is diffused through the whole mass with practical equality, and the effect produced is general compression of the brain, for the pressure does not act upon any particular function or local centre. But if the compressing object be of limited area and situated over some one centre, one of the motor centres in the cortex for instance, as the brain is not entirely fluid and does not yield perfectly before the compressing body, the part directly under the latter will especially feel the pressure, and therefore local symptoms of paralysis or irritation will be produced. Choked Disk.—A double sheath extends downward over the optic nerve as it passes through the optic foramen, the outer sheath being formed from the dura mater and the inner from the arachnoid, a free space existing be- tween the two sheaths, and also between the inner sheath and the nerve. The vessels pass through the centre of the nerve to the retina. When the pressure of the cerebro spinal fluid is increased it may escape along the optic nerve in the space between the arachnoid and the dura, or in that under the arachnoid ; or if there is an effusion of blood into the subdural or the subarachnoid spaces it may also find its way between the sheath and the nerve through the optic foramen. In either case the fluid or blood com- presses the nerve where it is confined by the edges of the bone and inter- feres with the circulation, particularly in the vein, causing a venous con- gestion, followed by oedema of the retina. At the same time, however, the artery is compressed, and arterial anaemia is to be observed in the retina. These changes are known by the name of choked disk, on account of the swollen condition of the optic disk. (Fig. 6-12.) They finally result in neuri- tis, atrophy of the nerve, and complete loss of sight. It should be remarked, however, that a few good observers hold that the changes in the circulation and in the optic nerve are not entirely due to pressure, and it is claimed that a cerebral tumor might produce them by some irritating substances formed in the growth which reach the optic nerve through the lymphatics.