INTESTINAL ANASTOMOSIS. 951 coat alone with Lembert's sutures. (See page 921.) Or a lateral anasto- mosis may be made, both ends of the bowel being closed by a continuous suture, a slit at least three inches long being made on the side opposite the mesenteric border in each end of the bowel, and the edges of these openings united in the same way as in gastro enterostomy. Finally, the ends may be united by Murphy's button. With a needle threaded with coarse silk a con- tinuous suture is made around each end of the bowel, passing through the entire thickness of its wall close to the cut edge. Half of the button is inserted in each end, and the thread of this suture is drawn tightly around its neck. The two halves are then joined (see page 943), and a continuous Lembert suture is applied outside of all. Intestinal Anastomosis.—In some cases it is not possible to remove the diseased bowel, and a short cut may then be made around the point of obstruction by forming an anastomosis in which an opening in the bowel above is united to a similar opening in the bowel below, exactly as in the case of gastro-enterostomy, either by sutures or by a Murphy's button. The method by sutures is better, because it allows a much larger opening to be made, and there is a tendency for all such orifices to contract. The incisions in the bowel should be three or four inches long, and should be made oppo- site to the mesenteric attachment. Intestinal Exclusion.—An operation has lately come into use which we may term intestinal exclusion. This is useful when a part of the bowel is diseased by a cicatricial stricture or multiple fistula? or some such condi- tion which is neither malignant nor tuberculous. In such a case the bowel may be divided above and below the point of disease and these two ends united. Both ends of the excluded part may then be closed after irrigating the loop thoroughly, or one end may be left open and secured in the ab- dominal wound. In this way the circulation of the intestinal contents goes on entirely through the healthy bowel, and the diseased part is relieved from function and from irritation. The general health is restored, and a local cure may be obtained. Although few such operations have as yet been done, excellent results have been claimed, and it is said that the excluded part of the intestine atrophies so completely that it is perfectly safe to close both ends of the isolated loop. DISEASES OF THE VEKMIFOEM APPENDIX. Anatomy.—The normal appendix is about three and a quarter inches long, and is attached to the caecum just behind its blunt extremity, although another frequent position is exactly at the end of the caecum, which is then funnel-shaped and continuous with the appendix at its tip. The latter ar- rangement is found in the foetus, the former usually in the adult, but the foetal arrangement occasionally persists. Occasionally the appendix is from seven to nine inches in length, or it may be only half an inch long, or even absent altogether. It is normally an intraperitoneal organ, and very rarely is it found behind the peritoneum. It has a short mesentery which runs behind the caecum towards the ileo-caecal valve. The appendix is usually coiled up behind and a little to the inner side of the caecum, but its position is very variable. It has even been found extending across the body, so that its tip