579 DISLOCATIONS OF THE WRIST. ployed in fractures of both bones of the forearm. These splints should be retained for about four weeks. Dislocations of the Wrist.—These are comparatively rare disloca- tions, and may be either backward or forward. Posterior Dislocation at the Wrist.—This displacement follows the application of force to the back of the hand, producing extreme flexion, which causes rupture of the posterior radio-carpal and lateral ligaments, and allows the carpus to rest upon the posterior surface of the radius and ulna. The most marked symptom is deformity, which consists in thick- ening in the antero-posterior diameter of the wrist, and fixation of the wrist with the hand slightly extended and the fingers flexed. (Fig. 507.) Treat- ment.—This displacement may be reduced by grasping the hand of the patient and making extension with slight flexion, abduction, and adduction. When the deformity has been reduced it has no tendency to reappear, and it should be afterwards treated by the application of a straight splint, worn for several weeks. Anterior Dislocation at the Wrist.—This displacement may result from forcible extension of the wrist: the anterior carpal and lateral ligaments are ruptured, and the bones of the carpus rest upon the anterior surface of the radius. Symptoms.—The symptoms of this displacement are fixa- tion of the hand in the extended position and a prominence upon the posterior surface of the wrist of the lower end of the radius and ulna (Fig. 508). Treatment.—Eeduction is accomplished by making extension from the hand with counter-extension from the arm, at the same time the carpus being extended upon the forearm and the ends of the ulna and radius pressed forward. Afterwards the hand and forearm should be placed upon a well-padded straight splint, or upon a Bond's splint, and secured by the application of a roller bandage. Dislocation at the wrist is most apt to be confounded with fracture of the lower end of the radius, but may easily be distinguished from this injury if the surgeon observes the following points : fracture at the lower end of the radius presents somewhat the same deformity ; but there is not marked fixation at the wrist, and upon reduction of the deformity by exten- sion and manipulation as soon as the extending force is removed the de- formity usually reappears. In dislocation there is rigidity of the wrist, and, after the reduction has been accomplished, upon the withdrawal of the extending force there is no tendency to the reproduction of the displace- ment. Fig. 508. Deformity in posterior dislocation of the wrist. (Agnew.) Deformity in anterior dislocation of the wrist. (After Agnew.)