796 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE THYROID GLAND. various causes, such as some central nervous lesion or changes in the sympa- thetic nerve, the fact that it can be cured by a partial removal of the gland renders it probable that the symptoms are due to an exaggerated or improper function of the gland. There may be an oversupply of some peculiar product of the gland, or the organ may fail to eliminate from the system some toxine which it should normally dispose of. The former theory is rendered the more likely because of the close resemblance between these symptoms and those produced by poisoning with the thyroid extract, so often given now for therapeutic purposes. The changes in the thyroid gland in this disease are various, being sometimes a simple hypertrophy, sometimes a true adenoma, either parenchymatous or cystic, and sometimes changes of an angiomatous nature. It was formerly thought that operations in this condition were very dangerous, but, in spite of the rapid and irregular heart-action, comparatively few deaths are now met with. The operation to be done geuerally consists in a partial removal of the organ, the larger half being selected, or the tumors may be enucleated. The heart-action will usually be quieted within a short time and the nervous symptoms rapidly disappear, but the exophthalmos may persist indefinitely, although it is generally improved. Malignant Tumors.—Malignant disease of the thyroid gland may be carcinoma or sarcoma. The tumors are rather slow in their growth at first, and the diagnosis is difficult. Carcinoma is to be suspected in cases of uni- form, rather hard enlargement of the gland in persons over forty years of age. The tumors compress the trachea, and death generally results from this cause. In malignant disease the only possible treatment is complete extirpation of the gland, in spite of the danger of myxoedema or cretinism ; and perhaps the administration of the thyroid extract may prevent these consequences. To be of any service the removal must take place very early. Palliative treatment is necessary in cases where the symptoms become urgent on account of the pressure exercised on the trachea by the tumor, and the gland should be divided in the middle line with the thermo cautery, taking advantage of the natural separation of the lobes at the isthmus. It is well to note that every tumor of the thyroid which causes secondary deposits is not malignant, for adenoma has been knowu to occasion them in various bones, and espe- cially in the skull. Although the metastasis of adenoma is rare, quite a number of instances are now on record.