CHRONIC CATARRHAL PROCTITIS. 1009 involved, and is congested and hyperseniic. Symptoms.—The symptoms are pain and tenderness, and the frequent passage of feces mixed with mucus and blood; oedeina and often slight prolapse of the mucous mem- brane of the anus are also observed. The patient at the same time complains of a sense of heat and weight about the pelvis, and often suffers from vesical irritation. Chronic Catarrhal Proctitis.—This affection generally follows acute proctitis, but may result from the presence of growths in the rectum, or from pressure upon the rectal wall caused by uterine displacements. In this form of the disease the mucous membrane is thickened and indurated, and ulceration of the surface at various points is usually present. Symp- toms.—These are those of acute proctitis in a modified degree. Pain and tenesmus are not prominent symptoms, and constipation is apt to be present. The patient often complains of a sense of fulness or weight in the rectum ; the discharge of blood is not excessive, and mucus and purulent matter escape from the rectum when a movement occurs. Treatment.—This in the acute form consists in putting the patient at rest in bed, and in the administration of purgatives to empty the lower bowel. The saline purgatives, such as sulphate of magnesium or Eochelle salt, act well, but castor oil or compound liquorice powder may be used with equally good results. If pain and tenesmus continue after the rectum has been emptied, an injection of thirty minims of laudanum to an ounce of starch water should be thrown into the rectum, or a suppository containing extract, opii, gr. i, 61. theobrom., gr. xxx, if its introduction does not give the patient pain, can often be used with advantage. The diet should also be restricted to meat broths, milk, and eggs. In the chronic form of the affection the same treatment as regards rest in bed, emptying the rectum, and restriction of the diet should be employed, and in addition the rectum should be carefully irrigated with warm sterilized water by means of a tube, and an enema of nitrate of silver solution, five grains to two ounces of water, should be injected and allowed to remain for a few minutes, the rectum afterwards being washed out with warm water. This injection should be used daily or on alternate days, and in addition suppositories of extract of opium, belladonna, and iodoform may often be employed with advantage. Dysenteric Proctitis.—This may exist as an acute or as a chronic affec- tion. In its acute form it is not apt to come under the care of the surgeon, but the chronic form of the disease gives rise to ulceration or stricture of the rectum, which condition sooner or later demands surgical treatment. Gonorrhoeal Proctitis.—If gonorrhoeal discharge is brought in contact with the mucous membrane of the rectum, there is rapidly set up an acute purulent inflammation, the mucous membrane becoming congested and red or purple in appearance, and a profuse purulent or muco purulent discharge occurs, infection in most cases occurring from the gonorrhoeal discharge running backward and reaching the anus and from this point finding its way into the rectum. Infection in this manner is more apt to occur in women than in men. Infection may also occur from the discharge being brought directly in contact with the mucous membrane of the rectum by 64