COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHOEA. 1059 shown by the investigations of Bergh, verified by Unterberger and Taylor, that more than one-half of the cases develop in the first three weeks, and a somewhat less number in the next three. It may occur much later, owing to fresh outbreaks of a chronic urethritis. One testicle is involved at a time, although the other may be subsequently affected. The onset is often preceded by an aching pain in the groin and pelvis, running along the cord, or by acute pain above the pubes at the edge of the rectus muscle, indi- cating inflammation of the seminal vesicle on that side. The discharge generally ceases at the beginning of the attack, which may be acute or sab- acute, the first attack being the most severe. The epididymis swells rapidly and partly surrounds the testicle, and from implication of the tunica vagi- nalis an acute hydrocele is usually present; the scrotum becomes (Edematous and inflamed, and the first portion of the vas deferens is often enlarged and tender. Pain is very severe, is increased on motion and pressure, and involvement of the cord in the canal causes extreme pain and signs of strangulation. The irregular character of the swelling, with the history, the rapid onset, and the mildness of the constitutional symptoms, will separate it from orchitis. In untreated cases after from three to five days the symptoms decrease in severity. The most common resulting lesion is a persistent induration, due to inflammatory exudate in and around the tubules of the epididymis, especially at the globus minor, with consequent sterility so far as the involved testicle is concerned. Treatment.—A suspensory bandage worn during the course of urethritis diminishes the tendency to epididymitis. Patients with posterior urethritis should be warned of their liability to an attack, and premonitory symptoms should be an indication for rest in bed. At the onset of the attack, rest in bed, with light diet and a preliminary purge, should be ordered. The pain is much relieved by supporting the testicles on a pillow between the thighs, or by suspension by some form of handkerchief bandage fastened around the waist. As local applications in the acute stage, lead water and laudanum, or some form of narcotizing poultice, as a combination of tobacco, digitalis, or hyoscyamus with flaxseed, applied hot, are the most useful. Guaiacol has lately been recommended, either painted on the scrotum or applied as a paste with vaseline in the proportion of one part of guaiacol to six parts of vaseline. Counter-irritation in the declining stage may be prac- tised by the use of the actual cautery or of strong solutions of silver nitrate over the affected side. For the remaining swelling, strapping (page 193), and for the induration in the globus minor, mercurial, belladonna, and iodine ointments, are recommended. Mercury internally sometimes seems to help in removing the exudate around and in the tubules. As a rule, urethral injections are to be discontinued, although the instillation of silver nitrate (gr. i. to viii. to water f.^i) into the prostatic urethra is recommended by Boeck and Alexander. Gonorrhoeal septicaemia occurs as a complication of urethral, vaginal, and conjunctival gonorrhoea, being much commoner in men than in women. It attacks the joints, the sheaths of tendons, the bursaB, the nerves, the eye, the meninges of the cord and the brain, and the endocardium and pericar- dium, in about the order of frequency set down, and occurs in about two