1202 ABDOMINAL HYSTERECTOMY. them by Kelly's method, in order to show their course and allow safe dissec- tion. Abdominal Hysterectomy.—In more advanced cases the uterus may be removed by an abdominal incision, which allows more extensive removal of the disease, but the operation is much more difficult. An abdominal incision is made from the pubes nearly to the umbilicus, the patient being in the Trendelenburg position, and catheters having been placed in the ureters. The ovarian artery is secured by a ligature at the edge of the broad liga- ment, the latter is cut across, and the uterine artery is then sought for, followed back to its origin, and ligated there. The bladder is separated from the uterus in front, and by the aid of the catheters in the ureters the latter are found and dissected out of the ligaments. The broad ligament is tied close to the iliac vessels and cut away. The other side is treated in the same way, and then the vagina is tied off by a series of ligatures and divided. In cutting away the broad ligament at the iliac vessels the lymphatic glands of that region should be removed (Clark). Polk ligates the anterior branch of the internal iliac, and claims that this gives a bloodless field of operation. The wound is closed as in the similar operation for fibroids. Sacral Hysterectomy.—The uterus may also be removed by the sacral method, the pelvis being opened by partial resection of the sacrum, as in Kraske's resection of the rectum, or by Hochenegg's "trap-door" method. The advantage of this route is the free access it gives to the pelvic cellular tissue, especially posteriorly, which allows removal of infected glands. The operation is, however, difficult, and there are few cases in which it presents any advantage over vaginal hysterectomy. Results of Hysterectomy for Cancer.—The results of these operations are now excellent, the mortality of the vaginal operation having come down to a very low figure, while the percentage of permanent cures is constantly increasing. Some authorities claim as much as fifty per cent., and it is cer- tain that twenty-five per cent, of cures can be obtained without selection of favorable cases. Incurable Cases.—Extirpation should be strictly limited, however, to those cases in which there is a chance of radical cure, although the excessive hemorrhage and foul discharge of incurable cases may be lessened by a thorough curetting of the diseased parts. The thermo-cautery may be used to remove these tissues, or cauteri- zation by chloride of zinc, The difficulty with the method of cauterization is that Amputation of cervix with cautery-knife. ^ limitg of ^ operation are leSS easily The dotted lines show the conical excision at r * various levels. (Boidt.) defined and there is more risk of injuring the bladder and rectum. High Amputation of the Cervix.—In epithelioma involving only the lower portion of the cervix and of small size, it is possible that high amputa- tion of the cervix may effect a cure, and the operation is simpler than entire Fig. 916.