445 FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. carried around the lower part of the chest and secured, so as to fix the arm to the side of the body. In the temporary dressing in fracture of the clavicle the same indications may be met by utilizing the clothing to secure the arm to the side and to form a sling, supporting the elbow from the opposite shoulder. The Velpeau Dressing.—This dressing will be found a most satisfactory one in a large number of cases. The flexed arm carried across the chest draws the lower angle of the scapula for- ward by making tense the teres major muscle, and causes the acromial frag- ments of the clavicle to rise upward and backward. The position of the arm upon the chest also serves to keep the scapula outward. (Fig. 345.) In dress- ing a fracture of the clavicle in this po- sition, the arm on the injured side should be flexed and brought across the front of the chest so that the hand will rest upon the shoulder of the sound side ; a folded towel should be placed in the axilla and between the arm and side of the chest, to prevent excoriation of the skin sur- faces. A modified form of the Velpeau dressing is applied as follows. A soft towel or a piece of lint should be placed in the axilla and allowed to extend over the side and front of the chest and held in position by a strip of adhesive plaster. The arm is next placed in the Velpeau position, and a good-sized pad of lint is applied over the scapula and held in place by a broad strip of adhesive plaster, two and a half inches in width and one and a half yards in length. This strip is continued downward and forward so as to pass over the point of the elbow, and is carried diagonally across the chest to the shoulder of the opposite side, and secured. A hole should be cut in it to receive the olecranon process. A compress of lint is placed over the seat of fracture and held in place by a strip of adhesive plaster ; an additional strip of plaster is next carried over the spine, around the arm and chest, and secured on the opposite side of the chest. (Fig. 346.) Circular turns of a roller bandage are then passed around the chest, including the arm, from below upward, until the arm is securely fixed to the body, and the dress- ing is finished by making one or two turns of the third roller of Desault. (Fig. 347.) The time of removal of this dressing and its reapplication will depend upon the comfort of the patient and the manner in which the dress- ing keeps the parts in position. As a rule, in fractures of the clavicle the dressing should be removed at the end of the second or third day, the parts inspected, and the skin sponged off with dilute alcohol; the dressings are then reapplied, and if the patient is comfortable and the parts in good po- sition the dressings should be made at less frequent intervals until union is completed. Union is generally quite firm at the end of four or five weeks, Velpeau's dressing for fracture of the clavicle.