555 SYMPTOMS OF DISLOCATION. position of the articulating surfaces of the bones, and tension or relaxation of the muscles in direct relation to the joint; thus, flattening of the shoul- der is a marked symptom in dislocation of the shoulder, and in many cases of dislocation prominence of the displaced bone may alter materially the shape of the joint. Change in the Length of the Limbs.—This may consist either in shortening or in elongation. Loss of Function.—This is usually present, the dislocated part being no longer capable of executing the ordinary movements, being generally rigid, muscular contraction as- sisting in the fixation of the part. Change in the Direction of the Limb. —This is usually very marked in dislocation, and is produced by tension of the ligaments and muscles, as well as by contact of the displaced bone with an abnormal bony surface. This change is well demonstrated in dislocation of the head of the humerus and of the femur. Crepitus.—True crepitus cannot be elicited in cases of dislocation, but a moist crepitus can often be obtained which resembles the friction of a cartilaginous surface over bone or that obtained in the case of inflamed bursse or tendons. Swelling, pain, and discoloration may also be present after dislocation, but these conditions do not differ materially from those observed after fracture. Changes produced by Dislocation.—The immediate effects pro- duced by dislocation are rupture of the capsular ligament, tearing of other ligaments, bruising or tearing of tendons or muscles adjacent to the joint, and injury of blood-vessels and nerves. In cases of disloca- tion following muscular relaxation, with elongation of the ligaments, displacement of the bone may occur without laceration of the ligaments. If the dislocation is promptly re- duced, the rent in the capsule heals, and the parts are soon restored to their normal condition. If, how- ever, the dislocation is not reduced, the articular surfaces of the bone undergo changes. In a ball-and- socket joint the ligaments become wasted, the head of the bone atro- phies, the cartilages disappear, the articular cavity becoming filled up and its margins absorbed and flattened, and the head of the bone, if it rests upon a bony sur- face, forms for itself a new socket. If the head of the bone rests upon muscle, tendon, or fascia, the soft tissues undergo condensation, a cup- shaped cavity of fibrous tissue is formed, which is attached to the margins of the displaced bone, forming a new capsular ligameut, and a synovia-like fluid is often secreted. (Fig. 476.) In the case of unreduced ginglymoid or hinge joints, the bony prominences are rounded off in time, the bones New socket formed upon the dorsum of the ilium in un- reduced dislocation of the femur. (After Agnew.)