330 TREATMENT OF VENOUS HEMORRHAGE. VENOUS HEMORRHAGE. Treatment of Venous Hemorrhage.—Spontaneous arrest of venous bleeding may occur from the action of the same causes that result in the arrest of arterial hemorrhage. Bleeding from small veins is usually arrested spontaneously, unless there is some pressure upon the wounded veins on the cardiac side of the wound, in which case continuous bleeding is apt to occur. Venous hemorrhage may be controlled by pressure, by the use of the hemostatic forceps or ligature, or by suture of the wounded vessel. Pressure.—This may be applied for the temporary control of venous hemorrhage by the fingers, or by the use of a compress held firmly over the wounded vessel by a bandage, or by packing the wound with strips of gauze : this method is often employed to control venous bleeding from deep cavities, or from the great venous sinuses within the skull, where a ligature cannot be easily used. Pressure applied in this manner may also be employed for the permanent control of venous bleeding. After venesection, or in cases of rupture of varicose veins, the bleeding is controlled by the use of a compress, which is allowed to remain in place until the wound is healed. Ligature.—In wounds of large veins the bleeding should be controlled by the use of ligatures, the distal end of the vein being first secured, as it usually bleeds more freely ; the proximal end of the vein, if supplied with valves beyond the wound, may not bleed, bat in all cases of injuries of large veins it is wise to follow the rule of practice employed in wounded arteries and secure both ends of the vein by ligatures. Lateral Ligature.—In punctured wounds or incomplete division of large veins it has been found that the hemorrhage may be safely controlled without obliteration of the vein at the seat of injury by the application of a lateral ligature ; the walls of the vein, including the wound, are picked up with forceps or haemostatic forceps, and a delicate catgut or silk ligature is firmly tied around the base of the tissues held in the forceps. The lateral ligature has frequently been resorted to in wounds of the femoral, jugular, and axillary veins, as well as in wounds of the venous sinuses within the skull; and the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage after this form of liga- ture, if the wound remains aseptic, has been found no more frequent than after the application of a circular occluding ligature. Suture of wounds of veins has been employed with success. Hsemostatic Forceps.—In case of venous hemorrhage, especially when it is from the deep parts of a wound or cavity, or from the great venous sinuses of the head, it is impossible to apply a ligature ; in such a case one or more pairs of hemostatic forceps may be clamped upon the injured vein or sinus, and, the wound around the forceps being loosely packed with gauze, the forceps are allowed to remain in place for four or five days, at the end of which time they can generally be removed without any recurrence of the bleeding. When forceps are used in this way, care should be taken to protect the projecting parts, so that the patient cannot displace them or do additional injury to the vessel and surrounding parts by forcing the instru- ments into the tissues. The process of repair in wounded or ligated veins is similar to that which takes place in arteries under the same conditions.