931 ABSCESS OF THE LIVER. that muscle, whereas in empyema the needle is always stationary. Abscess of the liver does not contain gas, its pus is usually sterile, and it generally alters the shape of the liver. The presence of gas in the cavity of these abscesses is demonstrated by the tympanitic percussion-note and by the change in the level of the fluid produced by changing the position of the patient, as in ascites. The prognosis without operation is very bad. About one-half of the cases may be cured by early operation, but usually it is de- layed until septic poisoning is present. Treatment.—Incisions may be made through the abdominal parietes, or if necessary one of the ribs may be resected, as in the operation for opening an abscess of the liver. Abundant drainage must be provided, and when the circumstances of the case and the condition of the patient permit it, a search should be made for the cause, such as perforation of the stomach or duodenum, as proper treatment of such a lesion by suture or otherwise will afford the best protection against septic complications. Tumors of the Peritoneum.—Tumors may develop in the perito- neal membrane, but usually they are secondary to disease elsewhere, either carcinoma or sarcoma. The primary tumors form small nodular masses, scattered over the surface, and cause a hemorrhagic serous effusion. They are incurable, and are of consequence surgically only because they may be confounded with other conditions. From tuberculosis they are distinguished by their occurrence at a later period in life, by the greater cachexia, and by the blood in the ascitic fluid. Hydatid cysts are also found in the peritoneal cavity, but clinically they cannot be separated from hydatids of the liver, to which they are usually secondary. LIVER. Wounds of the liver have been considered with the injuries of the abdo- men. The liver is occasionally displaced, its ligaments being relaxed so that it may descend even into the lower part of the abdomen, and attempts to secure it in its proper position by suturing it to the abdominal wall have been made with fair success. Abscess.—Abscesses of the liver may be single or multiple. They may be due to the suppuration of a haematoma produced by an injury, or of a hydatid cyst; and they are also caused by gall-stones. Most frequent, however, are the pyemic and the tropical abscesses. Pyamiic abscesses and those caused by gall-stones are generally multiple. Tropical abscess is usually single and of large size, and is situated in the right lobe in three- quarters of the cases. These abscesses may also occur in cool countries, although not so frequently as in hot, and they are generally secondary to dysentery. They are supposed to be due to infection by the amoeba coli. The pus of liver abscesses is frequently sterile and does not contain bac- teria, but this sterile pus when injected experimentally into the rectum of cats has caused proctitis and secondary abscesses of the liver. The single large abscesses most frequently demand surgical attention. They increase very slowly, with vague symptoms, until they attain a considerable size, when septicsemia generally develops, and the diagnosis is rendered possible by the enlargement of the liver and the pain due to distention.