PREPARATION FOR INTUBATION. 869 its extremity, which has a screw that attaches it to the obturator, and a sliding gear for detaching the obturator from the tube when it is placed in the larynx. (Fig. 746.) Mouth-Gags.—Mouth-gags of various kinds may be used ; the one generally used is a self-retaining instrument. (Fig. 747.) The Extractor.—The extractor is also curved on a right angle, and has Fig. 748. Extractor. Fig. 749. -12 at its extremity a small forceps with duckbill blades, which are made to separate and apply themselves to the interior surface of the tube with suf- ficient firmness to withdraw it, (Fig. 748.) The Gauge.—The gauge is to determine from the age of the child the size of tube to be employed. (Fig. 749.) Preparation for Intubation.—It is important that the following preparations should be made, so that the actual introduction of the intuba- tion-tube may occupy as little time as possible, for it should be remembered that when an intubation-tube enters the larynx breathing is arrested until the obturator is removed, and there- fore all manipulations should be as rapid as is consistent with accuracy. The time usually required, after the mouth-gag has been adjusted, for the introduction of the intubation-tube and withdrawal of the obturator is from five to ten seconds. The surgeon should select a tube of suitable size for the age of the patient, and pass a strand of fine braided silk, about two feet in length, through the opening in the collar of the tube and secure it with a knot. Having attached the tube by means of the ob- turator to the introducer, he should see that it can be freed from the obturator by working the slide. The surgeon next protects the index finger of the left hand, in the region of the second joint, by wrapping it with a piece of rubber plaster or by slipping over it a metal shield. This is an important precaution to prevent the patient from biting the finger in case the mouth-gag should slip, for a bite from the teeth, which are often very foul in these cases, is liable to be followed by very serious consequences. Operation.—The child should be placed in a sitting position upon the lap of the nurse or assistant, and covered by a blanket loosely thrown around it. The nurse grasps the child's elbows outside of the blanket and holds them firmly, but should not press them against the chest in such a way as to embarrass the respiratory movements ; at the same time Gauge.