208 SUTURES. Fig. 146. Interrupted Suture.—This variety of suture is the one usually em- ployed in the apposition of wounds, and consists of a number of single stitches, each of which is entirely independent of those on either side. In applying this suture the surgeon holds the edge of the wound with the fingers or forceps, and thrusts the needle, previously threaded, through the skin from one-eighth to one-third of an inch from the edge of the wound. He next passes the needle from within outward through the tissues of the op- posite flap at the same distance from the edge of the wound (Fig. 146); each stitch is secured as soon as it is applied, by tying if a silk, catgut, or silkworm-gut suture is used, or by twisting if a wire suture is employed. The suture may be used with a needle threaded on each end, in which case both needles are passed from within outward. In applying sutures care should be taken that they exert no tension on the edges of the wound, and that they are so introduced as to make the best possible apposition of the parts. Buried Sutures.—These are sutures which are intro- duced into deep wounds and cut short after being secured, and are allowed to remain in the wound, superficial sutures also being introduced. The former effect apposition of the muscles and the deep fascia; the superficial ones approximate the superficial fascia and the skin. The best materials to employ for deep or buried sutures are catgut, silk, or kan- Interrupted suture. garoo tendon. Fig. 147. Continued suture. Continued Suture.—This suture is applied in the same manner as the interrupted suture, but the stitches are not cut apart and tied; it is secured by drawing it double through the last stitch, and using the free end to make a knot with the double portion attached to the needle. (Fig. 147.) This suture is often employed in securing appo- sition of the edges of wounds in tissues of loose structure. Subcuticular Suture.—This variety of su- ture, which has been recommended by Halsted, is employed to avoid infection of the wound by the skin coccus, which may be introduced by the suture if passed from without inward. In ap- plying this suture the needle is introduced on the under surface of the skin on one side, and is brought out just beneath the cut edge : it is then entered in the reverse direction below the epidermic surface opposite, and when tied it will lie wholly out of sight. For this suture fine silk or cat- gut should be used, which may become encysted, may be absorbed, or may be cast off. Twisted or Harelip Suture.—This form of suture is employed where great accuracy and firmness of apposition of the surface of a wound are de- sired. It is applied by thrusting pins or needles deeply through both lips of the wound, the edges being brought in contact by figure-of-eight turns of silk or wire. (Fig. 148.) In using this suture the ends of the pins -should be cut off with pin-cutters after the sutures are applied, or should be pro-