" Double-barrelled" fecal fistula after hernia. FECAL FISTULA. Lateral fecal fistula. (Agnew.) 948 and efferent loops lie side by side, with a spur between them which pre- vents the contents of the afferent loop from passing directly into the efferent, and forces them to issue by the fistula. (Fig. 779.) The worst cases are those seen after strangulated hernia, as a complete loop of bowel usually sloughs in such cases, leaving two openings into the ends of the gut as they lie side by side. (Fig. 780.) When the bowel is opened by an abscess which has eroded its wall, a lateral opening results (Fig. 781), (The dotted lines show the position of the loop which has sloughed.) (Agnew.) and the spur is not well marked, so that spontaneous cure is the rule. If the opening leads to a part of the intestine very high up there will be marked loss of nutrition, because the food goes to waste, but otherwise the symptoms are limited to the annoyance and the irritation of the surrounding skin by the discharge. When the loop of bowel involved lies deep in the abdomen and the sinus is long and narrow, there is very apt to be reten- tion of the discharge, with a liability to the formation of abscesses or diffuse suppuration about it, a condition which is most frequently seen as a result of appendicitis with abscess. If there is a permanent obstruction to the bowel beyond the seat of the fistula, the latter becomes an artificial anus, and cannot be closed until the distal obstruction is remedied. Fecal fistula is rarely seen as the direct result of tuberculous or cancerous disease of the intestine involving the abdominal wall. Treatment.—The treatment of fecal fistula should be expectant at first, protecting the skin by ointments and cleanliness, and keeping the external orifice of the sinus open, so that it will close from the bottom, in order to avoid inflammation by retention of the discharge. If the external orifice should close and the patient begin to have fever, even if there is no local sign of abscess, a careful watch should be kept to evacuate the pus at the earliest possible moment. In very serious cases the patient may be kept submerged in a bath maintained at a constant temperature equal to the body heat, the water being changed by a continual fresh supply, thus washing away the discharge and keeping the skin free from irritation. If the fistula shows no tendency to heal, or frequently relapses, it must be Fig. 780.