1017 EXTERNAL HEMORRHOIDS. upon anatomical grounds, the erect posture, and the fact that the veins of the interior of the rectum empty into the superior hemorrhoidal vein, which in turn empties into the portal vein, favoring their development. The veins in leaving the rectum pass obliquely through the muscular coat of the bowel, and are frequently subjected to pressure. They are also without valves, and the blood-current may feel the effect of obstruction in the portal vein. Pathology.—In all forms of hemorrhoids there are dilatation and in- crease in the blood-vessels, with more or less proliferation of the connective tissue. A sudden increase in size of hemorrhoidal tumors may result from phlebitis, thrombosis, or perivascular inflammation, which causes a clotting of blood within the previously existing varicose veins. Hartmann and Lieffering consider that phlebitis of the hemorrhoidal veins is due to the presence within the veins of the bacterium coli communis. Hemorrhoids, for practical purposes, may be classified as external or in- ternal, according as they are below or above the external sphincter muscle. An external hemorrhoid generally consists of a dilatation of an external hemorrhoidal vein, is covered by skin, is situated below the external sphincter, and is in connection with the general venous system. An in- ternal hemorrhoid, on the other hand, consists of a dilated branch of the middle or internal hemorrhoidal veins, is covered by mucous membrane, is above the external sphincter, and is in connection with the visceral venous system. As the anastomosis between these sets of veins is very free, hemor- rhoids are often observed which arise from both sources and are known as intero-external hemorrhoids. External Hemorrhoids.—This variety of hemorrhoids is due to a dilatation of the external hemorrhoidal veins, and exists as a small venous tumor, from the size of a pea to that of a filbert, containing fluid blood, or as a tumor composed of varicose veins with a slight proliferation of their connective tissue, situated at the verge of the anus, or as tags of skin and connective tissue at the verge of the anus. The last-named variety often results from external hemorrhoids which have been inflamed and have undergone either resolution or suppuration. Symptoms.—External hemorrhoids, as a rule, unless inflamed, cause the patient little discomfort; when, however, thrombosis occurs, or the hemor- rhoid becomes inflamed, the pain is severe, and is increased by exercise and by movement of the bowels. Spasmodic contraction of the sphincter and levator ani muscles in this condition is quite common, and adds greatly to the patient's discomfort. If the inflamed hemorrhoid does not suppurate and resolution takes place, the swelling gradually subsides and the pain diminishes. If, however, suppuration occurs in the tumor, after the pus is discharged the pain quickly disappears, and the tumor gradually shrinks up, leaving a tag composed largely of skin and connective tissue. External hemorrhoids composed of skin and connective tissue are apt to give rise to eczema of the anus, and may be accompanied with pruritus, or a small fissure may exist at the base of one of these tags, which causes pain after stool. Treatment.—The treatment of inflamed external hemorrhoids is either palliative or radical. The palliative treatment consists in rest in the recum-