f FUNCTIONAL DISTURBANCES OF MICTURITION. 1113 Paralysis may attack either the detrusor or the sphincter, paralysis of the former resulting iu retention and paralysis of the latter in incontinence of urine. Both muscles may also be involved at once, the abdominal press- ure then causing the urine to dribble away. Paralytic retention is found in injuries and diseases of the spinal cord at any point, and paralytic incon- tinence only when the lower lumbar region is involved. The former may also be the result of voluntary over-distention from enforced holding of the urine and of long-continued over-distention due to mechanical obstruc- tion. Muscular power always returns after a few catheterizations in the first case, and sometimes in the second. Sphincteric paralysis may be the result of over-distention by the finger or by instruments, especially in the female. The sphincter may also be congenitally deficient. Treatment consists in the removal of the cause of paralysis, and the use of the catheter for retention. Electricity may be applied locally and to the lumbar plexus in order to restore power to the sphincter. Especial pains must be taken in maintaining asepsis in all instrumentation during paralytic retention, as the danger of infection is much greater than in the normal bladder. Paralytic incontinence demands the wearing of a urinal when the patient is up, and careful nursing to keep him dry when in bed. Functional disturbances of micturition are exceedingly common, and are usually the result of disturbed mental states in nervous individuals. Eetention and irritability of the bladder, the latter sometimes amounting to complete incontinence, are both caused by hysteria, or by emotional disturbances, such as fright or anxiety, and are also seen after certain operations about the pelvis, especially those for hemorrhoids. The fact that many persons are unable to pass water while lying down or in the presence of others is well known. Sometimes there appears to be a lack of coordination between the detrusor and sphincter muscles, resulting in a feeble or intermittent stream—a condition well named "stammering of the bladder." Enuresis.—In children the urine is often passed during sleep, and this is sometimes observed in adults who are epileptic, or during anaesthesia, the cause being the suspension of sensation which should awaken the volun- tary contraction of the sphincter when the urine begins to enter the urethra. A careful examination should be made of the genitals and bladder and the urine, as the incontinence may be a symptom of vesical calculus or other disease, or may be caused by a long foreskin or a narrow meatus. Treatment.—Nervous retention can sometimes be overcome by mental effort, by distracting the attention, by placing cold or wet cloths on the wrists or abdomen, or by making water run noisily from a faucet near by. The catheter will often be necessary. Nocturnal incontinence, or rather enuresis, in children, may be cured by circumcision or by education, but punishment is apt to increase the difficulty. It is well to make the child sleep on the side, with light covering, in a cool room, and not immediately after a heavy meal. Good results have been claimed for elevation of the foot of the bed, on the theory that it removes some of the weight of the urine from the neck of the bladder. An old-established method some- times useful is the administration of belladonna to the limit of tolerance.