PREPARATION FOR AMPUTATION. 268 of antiseptic methods; the primary period is often much prolonged, and the intermediary and secondary sometimes do not exist. Extensive experi- ence has shown that the primary period is the most favorable for amputation. Preparation of the Patient for Amputation—Many patients suffering from injuries which demand amputation are not in condition to bear the operation when they come under the care of the surgeon. Such patients are usually suffering markedly from shock, and the first indication in their treatment is to bring about reaction. This is accomplished by the use of external heat, diffusible stimulants, and the use of strychnine hypoder- mically, and in some cases by the intravenous injection or the infusion of saline solution. While the treatment of shock is being carried out, the in- jured part shoidd be exposed, to see that the patient is not losing blood. If there is no active bleeding from the wound, it should be carefully irrigated with a solution of bichloride, and the surrounding skin gently rubbed over with turpentine, which should be followed by the use of soap and water, and finally thoroughly irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, and the part should be wrapped in several towels wrung out of bichloride solution. If it is found that there is a moderate amount of bleeding, and the bleeding vessels can be seen by carefully exploring the wound, they should be secured by ligatures. If the bleeding arises from a number of small vessels and constitutes a continuous oozing, the wound should be firmly packed with strips of bichloride or sterilized gauze, and a com- press of gauze should be placed over the wound and held in position by a firmly applied bandage. If, however, the bleeding is free, the appli- cation of a tourniquet may be necessary. The elastic tube of the Esmarch apparatus is the appliance which will usually control the bleeding most promptly and perfectly. We think that in many cases the elastic tube or strap is used improperly, from the fact that it is often applied high up upon the limb away from the wound, is applied too tightly, and is allowed to remain for too long a time. A tightly applied Esmarch elastic strap soon becomes very painful to the patient, and for this reason we prefer not to use it where the bleeding can be controlled by simple packing of the wound and the use of a compress and a bandage. If the Esmarch strap is required to control hemorrhage, we apply the strap over the wound, or as near the wound as possible, preferring to apply it to the contused and lacerated tissues of the wound itself, which are not to be included in the flaps when the amputation is done, for we are certain that sloughing, which sometimes occurs in the flaps after amputation, is often due to the injury done to the tissues by the prolonged use of elastic constriction. We have seen an Es- march tube unwisely applied over the femoral artery in the thigh in the case of a crushed foot and allowed to remain for some hours, the parts in the region of the operation being for this time rendered bloodless and cold. We urgently recommend that where the Esmarch tube is used to control hemorrhage previous to amputation or during the period of reaction it be applied as nearly as possible over the wound. When reaction has been established, as is evidenced by the improvement in the pulse and the rise of temperature to or a little above the normal, the patient may be considered in condition for the operation.