SPIRAL REVERSED BANDAGE OF THE LEG. 185 this point it should be conducted around the outer border of the foot and over the dorsum, crossing the original turn in the median line of the foot, thus completing the first spica turn. These spica turns should be repeated, gradually ascending, by allowing each turn to cover in three-fourths of the preceding one, until the foot is covered, with the exception of the posterior portion of the sole of the heel; the turns should cross one another in the median line of the foot, and should be kept parallel throughout their course. (Fig. 119.) Spiral Reversed Bandage of the Leg—In applying this bandage the roller should be placed on the leg just above the ankle and secured by two circular turns ; it should then be carried obliquely over the foot to the metatarso phalangeal articulation, where a circular turn should be made around the foot; the foot should next be covered in with two or three spiral reversed turns, and two figure-of-eight turns made around the ankle and instep, and just above the ankle one or two circular or spiral turns around the leg; as the bandage is carried up the leg, spiral reversed turns Fig. 120. Spiral reversed bandage of the leg. are made until it approaches the knee at this point. If the limb is to be kept straight, spiral reversed turns may be continued over this region up the thigh. If the knee is to be bent, figure-of-eight turns should be applied until the knee is covered; then the thigh can be covered in with spiral reversed turns. (Fig. 120.) Recurrent Bandage of the Stump.—In applying this bandage the initial extremity of the roller should be placed upon the anterior or the posterior surface of the limb a few inches above the extremity of the stump, and the bandage carried over the end of the stump, and then conducted upward on the stump to a point directly opposite the point of starting; the bandage should then be brought back over the face of the stump to the point of starting, a sufficient number of these recurrent turns being made, each turn overlapping two-thirds of the previous one, until the face of the stump is covered in ; the bandage should then be reversed, and the recurrent turns should be secured at their points of origin by two or three circular turns. The roller should next be carried