376 CHAPTER XVII. LIGATION OP ARTERIES. The ligation of an artery in its continuity is an operation which demands skill and exact anatomical knowledge in the operator, and may be required for the control of hemorrhage, the cure of aneurism, and occasionally to arrest the growth of malignant tumors by diminishing their blood-supply. The instruments required for this operation are scalpels, dissecting for- ceps, a grooved director, a dry dissector, retractors, and an aneurismal needle or probe. The best material for ligatures is carefully prepared chromicized catgut, kangaroo tendon, or sterilized silk. In the application of a ligature to an artery in its continuity the surgeon should make his incision in the line which corresponds to the general course of the vessel, and, when possible, a portion of the vessel should be selected for the application of the ligature half an inch or an inch below any large collateral branch. Having selected the position, the surgeon steadies the skin with two fingers and makes an incision of the required length through the skin with a scalpel; the superficial fascia being exposed, it is picked up on a director and divided to an equal length with the incision in the skin ; if any large superficial veins come into view, these should be displaced. When the deep fascia has been exposed it should be nicked and divided upon a director. After dividing the deep fascia the surgeon should seek for the intermuscular space which leads down to the vessel, or the muscles, nerves, or tendons which are the guides to the vessel. At this point valu- able information may be gained by observing the small arterial branches which come up from the main vessel through the intermuscular spaces, which will often serve as guides to the position of the vessel. The surgeon should next work down in this space, separating the tissues with a director, Allis's dry dissector, the handle of a knife, or the finger, until the sheath of the vessel is exposed, which may be recognized by its communicated pulsation. The artery can generally be recognized by its pulsation, yet sometimes it is so feeble that it does not serve to identify the vessel ; arteries have frequently been confounded with tendons, veins, and nerves. Arteries present a pinkish-buff color and are compressible, while tendons are pearly white in color and are much denser in consistence; the deep blue color and thin walls of veins usually distinguish them without diffi- culty from arteries; a nerve, which resembles an artery in appearance more than a vein or a tendon, may be distinguished from an artery by the fact that it feels like a solid cord, while an artery may be flattened upon pressure, and presents the feeling of two surfaces gliding over each other. When the sheath of the artery has been exposed, it should be picked up with forceps and nicked with the point of a knife applied flatwise; the