26 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. placed in a sling, or, if the foot is involved, it should be allowed to rest on a high support. In some peculiar cases local bloodletting by scarification is useful, but general bleeding should never be employed, for the patient will need all his vitality to resist septic infection. Heat and Cold.—Very cold or very hot applications to the seat of in- flammation will relieve the pain, lessen the congestion, soften the parts so as to reduce the tension, and thus assist the tissues in their struggle against the invading germs. It is probably of little moment whether heat or cold be employed, so long as the applications be made continuously, for an alterna- tion of heat and cold is a stimulant to the circulation, whereas the continu- ous application of either is a sedative. Extremes of heat and cold have the power of contracting the calibre of the blood-vessels, but the action of heat is apparently more lasting and less apt to be followed by a reaction from subsequent paresis of the vascular walls, and hot applications are, as a rule, more agreeable to the patient than cold. Every surgeon has his own pref- erences, and personally we have observed the best effects from hot poultices in such conditions as cellulitis, whereas in peritonitis and meningitis the use of the ice-bag and cold coil has given us the best results, possibly be - cause in these diseases the general elevation of temperature is a dangerous condition in itself, and this fever is directly reduced by the application in- tended to affect the local lesion. A poultice should not be applied to an open wound or ulcer, because it becomes quickly foul with the discharge, and it should always be sterilized by boiling before being used. Wet Antiseptic Dressings.—With the demonstration of the bacterial origin of inflammatory affections the use of various antiseptic substances as external applications to the inflamed parts became universal, and, in spite of the early proof of the fact that none of these substances could be made to penetrate the skin in sufficient quantity to affect the growth of micro-organ- isms beneath it without poisoning the individual by constitutional absorp- tion, the practice is still prevalent. It is well proved that in order to de- stroy or even seriously hinder the growth of germs a considerable quantity of any of the antiseptic substances as yet known must be brought in contact with them, and it is self-evident that any substance which passes inward through the skin and other vascular tissues must be taken up by the blood in the vessels and carried away, so that it would reach any other part of the body as quickly as any inflamed deep parts. We are as yet without an antiseptic material which can affect the growth of germs and yet will not injure the patient, so that such absorption as this would be of very seri- ous moment. These facts prove the absurdity of applying dressings wet witli carbolic acid or corrosive sublimate solutions to the unbroken skin over inflamed areas. Any benefit which has been observed to follow their use has undoubtedly been due to the effect of the moisture and warmth or cold (according to the temperature of the dressings) thus obtained, while local sloughing and general constitutional poisoning are a common result of such applications. In some cases an attempt has been made to cause absorption of the antiseptic by scarifying the surface, but with doubtful effect. A light gauze dressing applied cold and kept constantly wet with any evaporating solution will greatly relieve the congestion, and so assist the inflamed tissues