272 COMPLICATIONS AFTER AMPUTATION. can be discovered they should be ligatured, but if the oozing is capillary the application of hot water will often check it. After the bleeding has ceased the flaps should be approximated by sutures and the stump dressed as previously described. Secondary Hemorrhage.—This complication is fortunately very in- frequent after amputations where due regard to asepsis has been observed. If secondary hemorrhage, however, does occur, warning is usually given by one or two slight preliminary bleedings. These should put the surgeon upon his guard, and the patient should be carefully watched by a skilled assistant who is able to apply the tourniquet or make judicious compression in case the hemorrhage becomes profuse. Treatment.—When free hemorrhage occurs, the tourniquet should be applied and the dressings removed, and the stump should be opened and the bleeding vessel sought for in the wound and secured by a ligature ; the stump should then be closed and dressed. If secondary hemorrhage again occurs, the same procedure should be repeated, and the vessel should be secured in the wound if possible. If, however, it is impossible to secure the vessel in the wound, or if the hemorrhage again recurs after the vessel has been secured, the main artery should be ligated above the wound at the point of election. Gangrene of the Stump.—This complication sometimes occurs in stumps after amputations, and may result from impaired nutrition of the flaps due to the primary injury, or may be caused by the presence of infec- tive organisms. All surgeons of experience recognize the fact that in am- putations for traumatism it is extremely difficult to differentiate accurately vitalized from partially devitalized tissues, and in spite of the greatest care some tissue may be included in the flaps which does not possess sufficient vitality. There are also certain conditions, such as diabetes, Bright's dis- ease, and atheroma, which predispose to gangrene. Gangrene may also, as previously stated, result from infection, and may occur in the form of trau- matic spreading gangrene. Limited gangrene of a flap or a portion of a flap resulting from the original traumatism is not a very serious complication ; the dead tissue in time separates and leaves a healthy granulating surface, and in many cases a satisfactory stump results after cicatrization has oc- curred. Extensive gangrene involving the whole stump is a very serious condition, and is often followed by a fatal termination. If this does occur, as soon as the gangrene is well established and a line of separation has formed amputation should be performed at a higher point. In traumatic spreading gangrene, prompt amputation at a higher point alone gives the patient a chance of recovery. Septic Infection.—Septic infection, resulting in osteomyelitis, septice- mia, or pyaemia, is also a complication which may occur after amputation, and is a very fatal one. In the case of osteomyelitis involving the stump, the treatment which offers the patient the best chance of recovery consists in opening the stump and exposing the bone by a lateral incision from the angle of the flaps ; the bone should then be freely opened with a gouge and the medullary cavity thoroughly exposed, and all diseased tissues should be removed with the gouge and curette. If recovery takes place after osteo-