FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 451 impacted fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus, the shoulder be- comes somewhat flattened, the acromion process less prominent, and the arm shortened. Prognosis.—The surgeon should always give a guarded prognosis as regards the restoration of function in cases of fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus. If the fracture passes entirely through the anatomi- cal neck of the bone, separating the head from all connections with the lower fragment, union is not likely to take place. The separated head of the bone will lie loosely in the joint, and may become wasted as it is de- prived of its blood-supply. When the separation is not complete and some fibres of the capsular ligament serve as a bond, union is possible, as also in cases of impacted fracture or in those which are partly within and partly without the capsule. Treatment.—We consider the administration of an anaesthetic a very essential point before any dressing is applied for the treatment of this frac- ture, so that the surgeon may ascertain as far as possible the exact seat of fracture. While the patient is under the influence of the anaesthetic the surgeon should attempt, by manipulation, to reduce as far as possible any deformity. If the separated head of the bone is driven forward or back- ward, by making extension upon the arm and pressure upon the displaced head of the bone with the fingers it may be forced into its normal position. The dressing for this fracture is similar to that described for fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, page 454. Compound Fracture of the Anatomical Neck of the Hu- merus.—This constitutes a most grave injury, and one in which it is often advisable to enlarge the wound and remove the separated head of the bone. We are strongly of the opinion that the functional result is much more satisfactory where the head of the bone is removed, even though it may be possible for recovery to take place without such a procedure. Indeed, we believe that if all simple fractures of the anatomical neck of the humerus were treated by incision and removal of the separated head of the bone, the functional result would be much more satisfactory than is the case where more conservative methods of treatment are employed. Complications.—One of the most serious complications occurring in fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus is the displacement of the separated head through the rent in the capsular ligament. Various pro- cedures have been recommended to return the displaced head of the bone to its normal position, such as manipulation, incision, and the introduction of a screw elevator into the displaced head of the bone to force it back to its normal position. If it cannot be replaced by manipulation, it should be freely exposed by incision and reduced or removed. Fractures of the Tuberosities of the Humerus—Fractures of the tuberosities of the humerus are rare injuries. Fracture of the greater tuberosity is occasionally seen as the result of force directly applied, or may occur in connection with the anterior dislocation of the head of the bone. The lesser tuberosity of the humerus is seldom fractured ; the few cases that have been reported have occurred in connection with the upward dislocation of the head of the bone.