CHOPART'S AMPUTATION. 293 internal cuneiform bone is sawed off after disarticulating the metatarsal bones. This modification, although it improves the appearance of the stump, possesses no other advantage. Medio-Tarsal, or Chopart's Amputation.—In this amputation the whole of the tarsus except the astragalus and the calcaneum is removed, the disarticulation being through the joints formed by the astragalus and os calcis behind and the scaphoid and cuboid in front. In performing Chopart's amputation an incision is made from the tubercle of the scaphoid bone across the dorsum of the foot, an inch in front of the head of the astraga- lus, to the lower and outer border of the cuboid bone. A plantar flap is next marked out by an incision beginning and ending at the same points as the first incision and crossing the sole of the foot four or five finger-breadths nearer the toes ; the dorsal flap is next dissected up, and after the tendons and chopart>s amputation of the foot. (Bryant.) fascia and ligaments have been divided the joint is opened. The disarticulation may be much facilitated by forci- bly bending the foot downward, so as to make the anterior ligaments of the joint tense. The plantar flap is next cut from within outward, following the line of the previously marked-out plantar incision. (Fig. 230.) If, on adjusting the flaps, it is found that any tension is present from the drawing up of the heel by the tendo Achillis, this tendon should be divided. The stump resulting from Chopart's amputation is often a very useful one, but in some cases the subsequent retraction of the heel by the action of the muscles inserted through the tendo Achillis causes pressure upon the cica- trix, which interferes with the use of the stump. In these cases division of the tendo Achillis may be of service. To prevent this complication, the extensor tendons may be sutured to the face of the stump at the time of operation. Subastragaloid Amputation.—In this operation all the bones of the foot are removed except the astragalus. In performing this amputa- tion an incision is made beginning an inch below the tip of the external malleolus, and is carried forward to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone; then carried across the dorsum of the foot to the calcaneo-cuboid articula- tion, on a line with which a transverse incision is made through the tissues of the sole of the foot. The joints between the scaphoid bone and the astragalus, and between the astragalus and the os calcis, are opened, and the os calcis is carefully dissected out, the point of the knife being kept close to the bone during dissection to avoid injury of the vessels ; the liga- ments are divided, and the astragalus only is allowed to remain in place. Tripier has modified the subastragaloid amputation by leaving the upper part of the calcaneum, which he saws through on an angle with the susten- taculum tali and at right angles to the axis of the leg. The incisions are the same as in Chopart's amputation.