201 CUPPING. BLOODLETTING. Bloodletting is often employed to obtain both the local and the general effects following the withdrawal of blood from the circulation. Local deple- tion is accomplished by means of scarification, cupping, and leeching, while general depletion is effected by means of venesection. Scarification.—Scarification consists in making numerous small par- allel incisions with a sharp-pointed knife, which should correspond with the long axis of the part, and care should be taken in making them to avoid wounding superficial veins and nerves. Incisions thus made relieve tension by allowing blood and serum to escape from the engorged capillaries of the infiltrated tissue of the part. Scarification is employed with advantage in inflammatory conditions of the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, and in acute inflammatory swelling or cedenia of the mucous membrane. A modification of scarification, known as deep incisions, is practised in urinary infiltration, to establish drainage and relieve the tissues of the contained urine, and to prevent sloughing. In phlegmonous erysipelas and in thr eat- ened gangrene the same procedure is often adopted to relieve tension or to facilitate the escape of blood and serum. Warm fomentations applied over the incisions will increase and keep up the flow of blood and serum. Cupping.—Cupping is a convenient method of employing local deple- tion by inviting the blood from the deeper parts to the surface of the skin, and may be accomplished by the use of dry or wet cups. Dry Cupping.—Dry cups, as ordinarily applied, consist of small cup- shaped glasses which have a valve and stopcock at their summit. The cup is placed upon the skin, and an air-pump is attached, and as the air is exhausted the congested integument is seen to bulge into its cavity. (Fig. 138.) When the exhaustion is complete the stopcock is turned and the air-punip is removed, the cup being allowed to remain in position for a few minutes. This procedure is repeated until a sufficient number of cups has been applied. In cases of emergency, where the ordinary cup- ping-glasses and air-pump cannot be employed, a very satisfac- tory substitute may be obtained by burning a little paper or alcohol in a wineglass, and, before the flame is extinguished, rapidly inverting it upon the skin. Wet Cupping.—When the abstraction of blood as well as the derivative action is desired, wet cups are resorted to. Be- fore applying wet cups the skin, as well as the scarificator, should be carefully sterilized. A dry cup should first be ap- plied, to produce superficial congestion of the skin. This is removed and the scarificator is applied; and, when the skin c-uppmg-giass. has been cut by springing the blades, the cup is immediately applied and exhausted, and is kept in place as long as the blood continues to flow. A sharp-pointed bistoury which has been sterilized may be em- ployed to make a few incisions in the skin instead of the scarificator, and the improvised cups may be employed if the ordinary cupping apparatus cannot be obtained. After the removal of wet cups the wounds should be