413 RUPTURE OF TENDONS. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF FASCRE. Wounds of Fasciae.—The various fascife of the body which invest and compress the muscles and separate them from one another are often exposed to injury. Owing to the fact that the fascia is poorly supplied with blood- vessels, it is apt to become gangrenous from inflammation of surrounding tissues interfering with its nutrition. Wounds of the deep fascia are apt to be followed by hernia of the subjacent muscles. We have seen rupture of the deep fascia over the soleus muscle occur in gouty subjects from forcible flexion of the foot. Wounds of fascia? are of especial interest to the surgeon, from the fact that they open up certain planes of tissue in which suppura- tion may occur and cause wide-spread destruction of the tissues. Treatment.—The treatment of an open wound of the deep fascia con- sists iu approximating the edges of the fascia with sutures ; if destruction of a portion of the fascia has occurred, from its inelastic character it is not possible to bring the edges into contact. Subcutaneous wounds of the deep fascia unaccompanied by hernia of the muscles should be treated by rest, position, and fixation of the parts by strapping and splints. Contraction of Fasciae.—As the result of inflammation following traumatism, or of certain diathetic conditions, such as gout or rheuma- tism, shortening of fasciae may occur, giving rise to marked deformities ; the deformities arising from contraction of the fascia lata, the popliteal fascia, and the palmar fascia are familiar to every surgeon. The treatment of these conditions will be considered under Orthopaedic Surgery. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF TENDONS. Rupture of Tendons.—Complete or par- tial rupture of a tendon may occur from sudden violent effort, producing unusual muscular con- traction. When such an accident occurs, the patient experiences a sense of something giving way and sharp pain at the seat of inj ury, which is followed by loss of muscular power. The tendons in which this accident is most likely to occur are those of the quadriceps extensor femoris, the long head of the biceps (Fig. 311), the ligamentum patellae, the triceps, and the tendo Achillis. Loss of function following this injury is usually very marked, and examination will often reveal a decided gap between the torn ends of the tendon. Avulsion of tendons may result from machinery accidents: the fingers „ , , *' j a Rupture of long head of biceps muscle. or toes being caught in machinery, the tendons (After Treves.) are torn out, often with a portion of the attached muscles. The injury described as rupture of the ligamentum patellae or of the tendon of the quadriceps extensor femoris often consists not in a rupture of the tendon, but in a tearing away of the insertion of the tendon from the patella, stripping off a portion of the periosteum and fibrous capsule with Fig. 311.