970 DIAGNOSIS OF ABDOMINAL TUMORS. the hand, it will follow the upward movement of those organs in expira- tion only when directly connected with them. This distinction is especially useful in ascertaining whether tumors of the stomach and intestine are free or adherent to the liver. Tumors connected with the intestine and stomach are more easily pushed up than drawn down, for by the latter movement Fig. 788. Fibrocystic tumor of the uterus. their mesenteric attachments are put upon the stretch. Tumors of the small intestine and sigmoid flexure are freely movable, while those of other parts of the colon are fixed. Fluctuation can be detected by laying one hand flat upon the abdomen and tapping the latter gently with the other at some distance. In persons with a very thick layer of fat upon the abdomen it is well to have an assistant hold a book or the edge of his hand firmly against the linea alba, in order to prevent a deceptive wave from crossing in the adipose tissue. Percussion will give the outline of many tumors, as they generally present areas of dulness or flatness. The relations of the tumor to the liver and the spleen may often be determined by this means. The pres- ence of free fluid in the peritoneal cavity (ascites) is detected by percussing the abdomen while the patient lies on the back and marking the line of dul- ness caused by the fluid, and then turning him on his side and noting the change which occurs in the level of the fluid, as shown by the changing line of dulness, for the fluid naturally sinks to the most dependent part of the cavity. Auscultation is of little use in the examination of the abdomen. Inflation and Injection.—Useful knowledge as to the relations of a tumor to the stomach or intestines is gained by filling those organs with fluid or air through a tube and studying by palpation and percussion the changes thus produced. Digital examination by the vagina or the rectum should never be omitted, even when the tumor has apparently no relation to the pelvic organs. The entire hand may be passed into the rectum, but this method of examination is too dangerous for common use, and will rarely, if ever, be necessary. It is said, however, that a hand which measures ten, or cer-