538 SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONE. Fig. 460. bral articulations; it presents the same lesions that are found in a similar affection of other joints, and is distinct from tuberculosis of the spine. It is an affection of middle life and old age, and is rarely seen in patients under twenty-five years of age ; it is more common in males than in females. It is generally observed in patients who present a rheumatic history, and often follows prolonged exposure to cold and wet. Occupation appears to have some relation to its development; those who in their work are compelled to stoop constantly, or to lift heavy weights, or to carry heavy burdens upon the back, are apt to develop this affection. The pathological changes observed are the absorption of the interverte- bral disks and the formation of osteophytes or bony outgrowths from the bodies of the vertebrse, generally occupying the lateral aspects, which by their union cause complete ankylosis of the spine. The intervertebral disks may be replaced by bone. The costo-vertebral articulations may also be in- volved. Symptoms.—The disease begins with rheu- matic aching or pain, which is followed by rigidity and gradual bending forward of the spine and the development of marked kyphosis. (Fig. 460.) When the cervical region of the spine is involved, the chin is pushed forward, the gait is changed, and lateral motions of the spine are also greatly re- stricted. As the disease advances, the kyphosis in- creases and the ribs become fixed, so that thoracic respiration is replaced by abdominal respiration. Local paralyses may result from pressure upon the nerves at the intervertebral foramina. Many per- sons suffering from this affection are able to carry on their ordinary occupations, and it is only when the disease has been developed to an extreme de- gree that the patient is unable to work or attend to his usual vocations. The disease does not seem to shorten life materially. Treatment.—This affection is little influenced by treatment. In the early stage the use of the actual cautery applied to the region of the disease seems to have a marked effect in diminishing the pain. Spondylitis deformans. (German Hospital Museum.) SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONE. Syphilitic affections of the periosteum and bone may occur compara- tively early in constitutional syphilis, but are much more frequently seen in the later stages of syphilis or in hereditary syphilis. At the present time the bone lesions of syphilis are not so common nor so extensive as they were some years ago ; this is probably to be accounted for by the comparatively milder course that the disease now runs and by the fact that the treatment of the early stages of the disease is now much more thorough and prolonged. The bone lesions of syphilis may be described as follows :