SUPRACONDYLOID FRACTURE OF THE HUMERUS. 457 FRACTURES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY OF THE HUMERUS. No fractures which come under the care of the surgeon are accompanied by more anxiety as to the functional results than those involving the con- dyles of the humerus, for in many cases, in spite of the most judicious treatment, a certain amount of impairment of the motion of the elbow-joint or change in the relation of the forearm to the arm, producing a change in the carrying angle, or gunstock deformity, is apt to follow. (Fig. 366.) The unfavorable results in these cases cannot be attributed to a lack of care on the part of the surgeon, but are rather due to the character of the fracture itself. The displaced condyle may be in such a position that it is impossible to reduce it completely, and it may interfere with the flexion or extension of the arm, or disturb the relation of the bones of the forearm to the arm, or the callus thrown out in the repair of the fracture may prevent the motions of flexion and extension being satisfactorily accomplished. Fractures of the condyles of the humerus are more apt to involve the medical attendant in medico-legal difficulties than any other fractures. In all cases of fracture involving the lower extremity of the humerus, we consider it essential that the patient be placed under the influence of an anaesthetic and carefully examined, so that the surgeon may have the fullest opportunity to locate definitely the nature and extent of the fracture, to reduce the deformity, and to apply the dressing proper for the special variety of fracture. Supracondyloid Fracture.—Supracondyloid fracture may consist in a fracture through the lower extremity of the humerus just above the limits of the expanded condyles, or in a separation of the lower epiphysis of the humerus. (Fig. 367.) The fracture just above the condyles may be oblique or transverse, but is usually more or less oblique, while the separation of the lower epiphysis is always transverse. Fig. 365. Fig. 366. Dressing for fracture of the shaft of the humerus. Deformity following fracture of the con- dyle of the left humerus.