836 PROMINENT AURICLES. lages or from their irregular development. In addition to prominence of the ears there may be associated a dropping forward of the upper portions, which causes the ears to present the appearance which is normal in the ears of fox- terriers. (Fig. 727.) The latter deformity seems to be due to irregular Prominent and drooping ears. Result of operation for prominent ears, in the case shown in Fig. 72". development of the cartilage, which is abnormally thick at some parts and very thin at its upper part. Treatment.—Prominent auricles in infants can often be corrected by wearing continuously a band or cap holding the ears against the head; in children or adults the deformity can be satisfactorily corrected by a plastic operation. The operation consists in first removing an elliptical section of skin from the back of the ear; when the cartilage has been exposed, an elliptical section of the cartilage, about one-quarter of the size of the section removed from the skin, is excised, care being taken that the skin upon the anterior surface of the cartilage is not perforated. The edges of the wound in the cartilage are next approximated by two or three catgut sutures, and the edges of the skin incision are also brought together by sutures. We usually employ a suture of fine chromicized cat- gut. After the sutures have been tied, the ear is brought close to the head, and an antiseptic dressing is applied and held in place by a bandage. The dressing need not be disturbed for a week or ten days, at which time the wound is generally firmly healed, and if silk sutures have been used they should be removed. The patient should, however, wear at night a cap or a bandage to keep the ears close to the head and prevent stretching of the scar. The result of an operation for prominent auricles is seen in Fig. 728. Acute and chronic inflammation of the auricles may arise from injuries, or may show itself in the form of erysipelas, herpes, or acute or chronic eczema. The treatment of these conditions is similar to that for like conditions in other parts of the body, and need not be detailed here.