1163 EXAMINATION OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. aseptic manner, and it is safer to employ instrumental dilatation by passing a series of sound-like instruments, or by dilating forceps, the blades of which are separated by compressing the handle by the hand or a screw. Of the latter the Goodell-Ellinger instrument (Fig. 875) is the best. In making the diagnosis of pelvic tumors the possibility of pregnancy is always to be borne in mind, the most useful signs of that condition being Fig. 875. Goodell-Ellinger uterine dilator. the enlargement of the uterus, the softening of the uterine wall at the level of the internal os in the early stages, the patulous cervix later, the rhythmic contractions of the organ, the foetal movements and heart-sounds, ballotte- nient of the foetus, and the changes in the mammse. Palpation may reveal the ovaries and tubes on the sides and the round ligaments passing to the summit of the tumor. If there is any suspicion of pregnancy, the sound should not be passed into the uterus, except in urgent cases, as miscarriage will follow. Errors are most likely to occur in cases of hydramnios. If a mass is felt in the pelvis, its attachment to the uterus is ascertained by moving the tumor with the hand outside, the finger in the vagina ob- serving if the cervix moves in a corresponding way. If the fundus cannot be felt separate from the tumor, a sound introduced into the uterine canal will determine the direction of the fundus and whether the mass uniformly surrounds it or lies upon one side. If the mass is upon one side and distinct from the uterus, it may be an inflammatory mass formed by the tubes and ovaries, a distended tube, or a tumor of the ovary. In the first case there will be a history of an inflammatory trouble, such as pain and uterine discharge, the mass will be uneven on the surface, fixed in the pelvis, and very commonly a similar condition will be found on the other side. A distended tube may contain blood, serum, or pus; it may or may not be tender to pressure, and if it contains pus it will usually be fixed by ad- hesions. A tumor of the ovary will be globular in shape ; it is generally movable, and the uterus will not move with it. The pedicle can often be felt attached to one horn of the uterus. A cyst developing in the broad liga- ment, whether parovarian or ovarian, growing downward in the pelvis, will tend to displace the uterus towards the other side and more or less fix it in its position. A fibroid of the uterus developing upon one side, even if it has a narrow pedicle, will promptly move the uterus with it. Intraperitoneal