992 RADICAL CURE OF HERNIA. passed through the same parts a little external to the first, the first stitch being invaginated by tying the second. A third suture may be passed out- side of these. We have obtained very good results with this method, aud the operation is not especially difficult. Another method may be called the flap operation. A flap is formed from the sheath of the pectineus muscle, or from the muscle itself, turned up under Poupart's ligament, and secured by sutures to that structure. Umbilical Hernia.—The radical cure of umbilical hernia also is rather unsatisfactory, because of the difficulty of bringing the edges of the um- bilical ring in contact on account of the great abdominal tension. The contents are usually adherent to the sac, and the latter must be opened with caution, for fear of wounding them. We have found it best first to open the abdomen just above the umbilical ring and then to pass the finger through into the sac and cut down upon the finger. In this way the adhe- sions can be released much more readily than if the sac were opened di- rectly. When the adhesions have been separated and the omentum removed as far as possible, the remains of the sac are to be sutured across the open- ing. The edges of the umbilical ring are freshened, and if the circular open- ing is very wide a small wedge-shaped piece may be taken from the fascia in the middle line of the abdomen above and below, in order to form an oval opening, which is easier to suture. The edges are then brought into contact with silkworm-gut sutures, or, if the tension is very great, with silver wire secured to lead plates or buttons at the ends. The bowels and diet of the patient should be carefully regulated beforehand, in order to diminish the intestinal contents as far as possible, and to prepare against the danger of obstruction when adherent bowel must be returned. Eelapses are very frequent after these operations, and the patients are apt to be stout and bear operations badly, but when the amount of disability is consider- able an attempt should be made to obtain a radical cure. In ventral hernia following a laparotomy the old scar should be thoroughly excised, and the wound thus made closed as in an ordinary laparotomy without drainage. General Considerations in Operations for Radical Cure.—Su- tures.—The material used for the deep sutures in these operations is very various. Catgut is good, and the chromicized catgut can be made to resist absorption for five or six weeks. Kangaroo tendon, sterilized by boiling in alcohol, is said to last a couple of months, but we have known of cases in which it was absorbed in less time, even in three weeks. Silver wire is objectionable, as it may irritate the tissues by its hardness. Silk and silk- worm-gut, especially the latter, make good permanent sutures, but they are liable to be sources of infection as foreign bodies later, and to cause small abscesses. It is true that the latter may be due to bacteria circulating in the blood and settling in the tissues irritated by the foreign body, but prac- tically all these cases are caused by deficient sterilization of the material, a small amount of germs or spores being left in them which develop weeks or months after the wound has healed. It should be remembered that no permanent suture has any holding power after the wound has healed, and it is then invariably found lying loose in its bed. so that its use does not add