INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 958 Over one hundred operations in cases of obstruction due to gall-stones are on record. A gall-stone may become impacted in any part of the small intes- tine, but most frequently at its narrowest portion, the ileo-csecal valve. Gall- stones sometimes accumulate layers of fecal matter as they lie in the bowel, and thus constitute the larger number of enteroliths, although the latter have been known to form about various foreign substances. Enteroliths may attain such a large size as to distend the bowel. Obstruction has also been caused in children by masses of round worms. Foreign bodies may perforate the in- testine and cause a general peritonitis or an abscess, and recovery has followed the removal of foreign bodies, such as a fork or spoon, from such abscesses. (4) Stricture, by which we understand a reduction of the lumen of the bowel by various causes. There may be a congenital narrowing at some part of the bowel where the junction of the different loops takes place in fcetal life. The stricture may be cicatricial, owing to the healing of some ulcer or inflammatory process. The narrowing may be due also to tumors pressing upon the bowel or growing into its lumen. Under this head we include hematoceles formed in the wall of the bowel beneath the mucous membrane, any inflammatory thickening of the bowel-wall, and external hematoceles or abscesses. (5) Bands. Obstruction may be caused by bands of organized lymph formed in peritonitis, which pass across the abdomen from one organ to an- other or to the abdominal wall. A loop of bowel may be caught under such a band or surrounded by it, and either simple occlusion or strangula- tion may result. (Fig. 783.) (6) Adhesions. Adhesions may form be- tween the bowel and the abdominal wall or some of the viscera, which may directly com- press the bowel or hold it in a bent position, or simply bind it down so as to impede the peri- staltic movements. We have seen a flexion produced by an adhesion to inflamed tuberculous mesenteric glands. (7) Diverticula. Intestinal diverticula are not infrequent—especially Meckel's diverticu- lum in the ileum, being the result of incomplete fcetal changes, and they may interfere with the movements of the bowel as do the peritoneal bands by forming adhesions and dragging on the bowel or binding it down, or even surround- ing it like a cord. The appendix vermiformis Constriction of a loop of gut by a may act in a simjlar fashion. (8) Apertures. There may be internal hernia or strangulation through a natural aperture in the peritoneum, such as the foramen of Winslow, or through artificial openings made by atrophy of the mesentery, for the latter occasionally produces openings an inch or more in diameter. Strangulation may also take place through abnormal openings formed by adhesions or bands.