477 FRACTURE OF THE PUBIS. Fig. 398. pelvis the wound should, be sterilized, loose fragments of bone removed, and a copious antiseptic gauze dressing applied and held in place by broad strips of adhesive plaster, the patient being kept in bed and the dressings retained for about six weeks. Fracture of the Pubis.—This frac- ture results from the same class of injuries that produce fracture of the other pelvic bones, and may involve the horizontal ramus, the descending ramus, or the body. (Fig. 398.) A diastasis of the pubis at the symphysis may also result. Fractures of the pubis are often complicated by injuries of the bladder or the urethra. Symptoms.—The symptoms of frac- ture of the pubis are severe pain, increased by attempts at motion or by pressure on the body of the bone, inability to walk or stand, and a feeling on the part of the patient as though he were falling apart. Crepitus and mobility can also sometimes be obtained. Treatment.—The patient should be placed in bed upon his back, with the thighs flexed, and the pelvis should be supported by a binder of strong muslin, or by broad strips of adhesive plaster, three inches in width, extending entirely around the pelvis. In cases of fracture of the pubis the patient should be kept in bed and the dressings retained for about six weeks. Fractures of the Ischium.—Fractures of the ischium are not so common as those of the other pelvic bones, though they sometimes occur in con- nection with similar injuries of the other bones where great force has been applied. (Fig. 399.) The ischium may be fractured in the course of the ascending ramus, through the tuberosity, or near the acetabulum. Fractures of the ischium are especially liable to occur in falls from a dis- tance, where the weight of the body is received upon the buttocks, and are often complicated by injuries of the urethra, bladder, or rectum. Symptoms.—The patient is unable to stand or walk, and pain is a prominent symptom. By firmly grasping the tuberosity of the bone mobility and crepitus may be obtained, and rectal or vaginal examination will often disclose the seat of fracture. Treatment.—The patient should be placed upon his back or side, with the limbs moderately flexed over pillows, and should be kept in bed for six weeks. Fracture of the pubis. (After Agnew.) Fig. 399. Fracture of the ramus of the ischium (Agnew.)