1062 GONORRHOEA IN THE FEMALE. as a preliminary and coincident measure in any case, as it accomplishes the absorption of the submucous deposit, which he regards as the important primary cause of the trouble. Care should be taken, however, in employing Fig. 826. Ultzrnarm's syringe. sounds, that the urethra is gradually accustomed to their use, as they some- times do much harm when used otherwise. The same precaution should be observed in the use of the urethroscope. Gonorrhoea in the Female.—Gonorrhoea in the female occurs less frequently than in the male, and does not run so definite a course, but is attended by equally or more severe and lasting complications. It attacks the vulva, urethra, vagina, uterus, tubes, ovaries, and peritoneum, and is very liable to become chronic in some portion of the genital tract. Its most common sites are the urethra and the cervix uteri. There are non-specific inflammations of the female genitals due to a variety of causes, as in the male, in which the gonococcus is not a causative agent. They include uncleanliness, traumatism, masturbation, and the presence of parasites (ascarides). The vulvo-vaginitis of children may be non-specific, arising from these causes, or may be a genuine gonorrhoea! infection from mediate or immediate contagion, and sometimes occurs as an epidemic in children's asylums. Inflammation of the vulva may be primary or secondary. It is marked by heat and burning, and examination shows swelling of the labia majora and labia minora, with first a muco-purulent and later a purulent discharge, accompanied by superficial excoriation of the mucous membrane. It may extend to the urethra and vagina, and be complicated by bubo and abscess of the vulvo-vaginal glands. Gonorrheal bubo is rare, as in the case of the male, and is not usually attended by suppuration. Inflammation of the vulvo-vaginal glands may be localized in the ducts or extend to the glands, in the latter case sometimes going on to the formation of an abscess, with the usual signs of inflammation, and swelling of the labium majus on the same side. It may become chronic, with persistent induration of the gland, and sometimes remains a source of contagion in such cases. The urethra is the most frequent seat of gonorrhoea in the female, and inflammation of the urethra is usually indicative of venereal contagion. The symptoms are increased frequency of micturition, with ardor urinae, and a discharge purulent in character. It is liable to become chronic, in which case stripping of the canal from behind forward will show the presence of pus. The process may also be localized and persistent in Skene's glands, and in the follicles around the urethra. Gonorrhceal vaginitis, formerly considered very common, is now known to be comparatively infrequent. It is observed in young women and girls, in whom the mucous membrane of