TREATMENT OF NECROSIS. 528 Treatment.—Sequestrotomy.—When a sequestrum exists, healing cannot take place until this is removed. The region of operation should be thoroughly sterilized, and in operating upon the long bones the use of Esmarch's bandage to render the parts bloodless will be found most satis- factory. After the circulation has been controlled, an incision should be made down to the bone, the sinuses being used as guides to the incision, and, when it is possible, the intermuscular septa being followed, to avoid transverse division or splitting of the muscular fibres. When the bone has been exposed, the periosteum should be separated and turned aside, and the involucrum or new bone surrounding the sequestrum or dead bone cut away with a gouge. When this has been sufficiently removed, the sequestrum should be grasped with forceps and removed. The edges of the involucrum should next be cut away freely, so as to expose the cavity fully and leave it with sloping edges, to favor the falling in of the soft parts in the subsequent cicatrization. (Fig. 445.) The cavity should then be thoroughly cleared of granulation-tissue with a curette, and, after being irrigated with bichloride solution or sterilized water, should be dried with gauze pads and loosely packed with iodoform or sterilized gauze, a copious antiseptic dressing ap- plied, and after this has been secured with a firm bandage covering the whole limb, the elastic tube of the Esmarch apparatus should be removed, and the circulation allowed to return to the limb. If no large vessel has been injured, troublesome hemorrhage is not likely to occur. The after- treatment of these cases consists in the removal of the dressings and packing at the end of a week, and the introduction of a loose gauze packing and a gauze dressing applied in the same manner. If the cavity is a large one, a considerable time is required for the healing, which leaves a depressed scar, the tissues being drawn into the cavity in the healing. To lessen the time occupied in healing and to diminish the scar resulting, various pro- cedures have been adopted. Keuber made flaps frorn the skin, which were turned in and fastened to the floor of the cavity by ster- ilized tacks. Senn has recommended the filling of the cavity with decalcified bone chips, the soft parts being subsequently closed over the cavity with sutures. Schede's method of allowing the cavity to fill with blood-clot, which becomes organized, has also been employed. Sponge-grafting has been used in these cases. Bier has practised an osteoplastic resection of the involucrum, in which a portion of the involucrum attached to the soft parts is turned aside (Fig. 448), and when the cavity is cleared of the seques- trum and granulations it is allowed to fall back over the cavity, and is secured in position by sutures or sterilized nails. Fig. 448. Osteoplastic resection for the removal of sequestrum. (Bier.)