PERINEPHRITIC ABSCESS. 1118 kidney itself. The perinephritis may also be the result of other inflamma- tory processes in that neighborhood, originating in the bones or from per- forating ulcer of the stomach. Perinephritic abscess may extend upward, traversing the diaphragm either by perforation or by infection of its lym- phatic channels, and causing an empyema or even perforating the lung. It may also perforate the intestines or the stomach, and much more rarely does it burst into the pelvis of the kidney itself. The abscess frequently descends by gravity behind the peritoneum, and it may discharge in the groin or low down on the back. The infection may be the ordinary pyogenic form, or it may be tuberculous, in the latter cases forming the ordinary cold abscess. Symptoms.—The symptoms of perinephritis are pain in the back and side, and fever with or without an initial chill. Local tenderness is marked, a large tumor develops, the thigh may be held flexed by contraction of the psoas muscle, and the patient may bend the spine towards the injured side. Fever may precede the appearance of a tumor. If it be purely tubercu- lous in origin it produces no symptoms other than those of an ordinary cold abscess. The diagnosis of perinephritis from pyonephrosis or abscess of the kidney is made by the more superficial situation of the pus, by the greater immobility of the tumor, and in some cases by the absence of urinary signs of kidney disease. The uriue will be altered in pyonephrosis, unless that from the affected side is entirely shut off by the obliteration of the ureter. The swelling of the perinephritic abscess is more obvious in the back and less so in the front than the tumors made by distention of the kidney. Neo- plasms of the kidney are usually movable, and do not present the signs of inflammation. Aspiration will furnish pus in cases of abscess. It should not be forgotten that perinephritis is often associated with suppuration in the kidney. A perinephritic abscess might easily be confounded with a subphrenic abscess developing from a perforation of the stomach, but it can usually be distinguished by the fact that the pus lies against the posterior wall of the abdomen rather than up under the diaphragm, although in some cases perinephritic suppuration may form a true subphrenic abscess. The absence of stomach symptoms and the presence of disease of the kidney would assist in the diagnosis. Cold abscesses originating in the bones and forming in this locality may be distinguished by the signs of disease of the vertebra?, the pelvic bones, or the ribs, and also by the absence of signs of kidney disease. Psoas abscesses are situated near the middle line, whereas a perinephritic abscess may extend well out into the flank. The diagnosis is by no means always easy, and may be impossible. Treatment.—The treatment of perinephritis consists in evacuation of the pus by incision as soon as the diagnosis can be made. Unless the symp- toms of kidney disease are urgent, that organ should be left untouched until the external abscess-cavity has contracted, except when the perinephritis is secondary to a pyonephrosis with complete destruction of the kidney, in which case the organ should be removed at once. These abscesses should be opened by a large incision similar to that used in nephrotomy, which will allow of examination of the condition of the kidney. In the tuber- cular cases, after removal of the kidney the external abscess may be treated with iodoform.