EXCISION OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. 648 knee-joint. Fig. 577. carefully separated from the bone, and the bone is grasped with strong for- ceps and dissected free from its attachments upon the under surface. The knee-joint is generally opened in excising the patella, unless the removal of the bone is undertaken for necrosis or caries, when it is possible to accomplish its com- plete removal without opening the joint. After excision of the patella the wound should be drained and closed by sutures, a gauze dressing applied, and the limb fixed in a straight position by the application of a posterior splint or a plaster of Paris dressing. Resection of the Tibia or the Fibula—In resecting the tibia or the fibula, after the shaft of the bone has been exposed by a longitudinal incision, the periosteum should be separated as completely as pos- sible, when the shaft may be removed in one piece or may be divided at its middle, each fragment being grasped with forceps, dissected up, and removed at its epiphyseal junction. (Fig. 578.) Excision of the Ankle-Joint—This operation may be required for injuries of the ankle-joint, such as compound dislocations or fractures, or for tuberculous disease of the joint. Operation.—In excising the ankle-joint an incision is made over the fibula at a point two inches above the joint and carried down to the tip of the external mal- leolus. The incision is then carried slightly upward towards the dorsum of the foot (Fig. 579), care being taken that it does not extend so far forward as to endanger the extensor tendons or the dorsal artery. The bone is exposed in this incision, and the periosteum is separated and turned aside; the peroneal tendons are next exposed and held to one side with retractors ; the external malleolus is divided with bone-cutting pliers and removed, and the astragalus is exposed. The upper articulating sur- face of the astragalus is removed with bone forceps or with a saw, or the whole bone may be removed. The foot is then very much inverted, and the end of the tibia is cleared with a probe-pointed knife, being careful not to injure the posterior tibial artery, nerve, or vein, and when the articulating surface has been freed it is removed with a saw or bone for- ceps. The articular end of the tibia may be exposed by making an ad- ditional incision upon the inner side of the ankle, over the internal mal- leolus if it is desired. After the joint has been excised a drainage-tube should be introduced, the incision closed with sutures, and a gauze dress- ing applied. The foot is placed at a right angle to the leg and a plaster of Paris bandage applied to the foot and leg, or fixation may be given to the parts by the application of moulded binders' board splints. The latter method of fixation is preferable if frequent dressings of the wound are necessary. After excision of the ankle in some cases more or less movement of the joint remains, while in others bony ankylosis results. In Result of an excision of t he