CHRONIC URETHRITIS. 1061 week, and is often associated with epididymitis. In the acute stage the symptoms resemble those of posterior urethritis and prostatitis, from which it must be excluded by rectal examination. The subacute and chronic forms are more common, the most important symptoms being sexual de- rangements, such as exaggerated sexual desire, delayed ejaculation, seminal emissions, mental depression, and sometimes a purulent discharge. Eectal examination shows distention of the seminal vesicles. Treatment in acute cases is sedative, and if pus forms it should be evacuated. In chronic cases, tonic treatment, the cure of the posterior urethritis, if it is present, and stripping or milking the vesicles through the rectum, as recommended by Fuller, are indicated. Chronic Urethritis.—Gleet.—If instead of the discharge ceasing it persists and becomes chronic, we have to deal with chronic urethritis, or gleet. It is due to a persistence of inflammation in some portion of the urethra in the form of congested, ulcerated, granular, or papillomatous ai'eas, with submucous infiltration as a primary cause. It is due also to stricture already formed, or to inflammation lingering in the follicles, and sometimes in Cowper's glands. It may be attended by a profuse discharge, or only a drop may be noticed in the morning, or the only indication may be the presence of fine threads in the urine, called clap threads, which consist of the scabs from patches of ulceration, and if examined under the micro- scope are seen to consist of epithelial and pus cells embedded in mucus, sometimes containing gonococci. The bulb is a favorite seat for the locali- zation of the process, which may, however, affect any portion. In the pos- terior urethra lesions may be attended by no discharge, but there may be sexual and neurasthenic symptoms, frequent and painful micturition, and attacks of epididymitis. In the anterior urethra the position of the ulcera- tion or stricture may be determined by the use of a bulbous bougie or the endoscope. Chronic urethritis may develop into an acute attack by violation of the rides of urethral hygiene, as alcoholism, venery, and violent exercise. It is probably contagious so long as gonococci are present, especially in purulent cases. Treatment.—Internally the antiblennorrhagics are useful. Irrigation of the urethra with a solution of sulphate of zinc, alum, and carbolic acid of each 1 to 500 is used by Ultzmann. The solution is thrown into the bladder and then voided. This is followed after a couple of weeks by hot solutions of permanganate of potassium or silver nitrate ; the latter is especially useful in chronic cases. Any portion of the canal may be irrigated with the same solution. When the disease is localized, a few drops of a solution of sulphate of copper or nitrate of silver, the latter varying in strength from 1 to 2000 up to twenty grains to the ounce, may be deposited on the diseased area. A special syringe is necessary, and either Taylor's or Ultz- mann' s (Fig. 826) may be used. Applications may also be made through the urethroscope, strong solutions of silver, iodine, sulphate of copper, and glycerole of tannin being the most valuable. In the anterior urethra the milder solutions thrown in with the ordinary syringe will answer in many cases. If no severe urethral lesion can be detected, the passage of a large steel sound every few days will often effect a cure, and is advised by Otis