TUMORS OF THE PHARYNX. 787 THE PHARYNX. In cases of cut-throat the knife may open the pharynx at the base of the tongue, sometimes making an opening into which several fingers can be passed. Malformations of the pharynx may produce diverticula and fistulse, the latter passing outward in the line of the branchial clefts as already described. The diverticula resemble those of the oesophagus. Inflammations.—The pharynx is subject to superficial inflammations of a catarrhal, diphtheritic, or rheumatic nature, which are of no particular interest to the surgeon ; tubercular ulceration, however, is found, and syphilitic ulceration is exceedingly common. Extensive tubercular or syphilitic ulceration may produce great narrowing of the pharynx when the ulcers cicatrize. The soft palate is drawn backward and becomes adherent to the posterior wall of the pharynx, and the passage from the nose to the mouth may be entirely closed. This is most frequently seen in the infantile and hereditary forms of syphilis. Extensive tubercular ulceration seldom heals. Deep ulceration of the pharynx may expose the bone at the base of the skull and open the sphenoidal sinuses. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is provided with numerous deep follicles, and if a suppurative inflammation is set up an abscess may form external to the mucous mem- brane. An incision should be made as soon as the abscess can be detected. Among the syphilitic inflammations should be mentioned gumma, which may form tumors of considerable size in the wall of the pharynx. Foreign bodies may become impacted in the pharynx, but they are easily removed, as a rule, by the finger or by forceps, and may be dislodged in a child by holding it head downward and shaking it vigorously. Adenoids.—At the apex of the pharynx is a collection of lymphoid tissue in the mucous membrane which sometimes forms a considerable mass and is known as the third or pharyngeal tonsil. When this is of large size it may form a considerable obstruction to breathing. Small multiple tumors of adenoid tissue, known as vegetations, are sometimes found blocking up the vault of the pharynx. Both of these growths may be removed with a strong curette, and the soft variety scraped off with the finger-nail. Tumors.—The naso-pharyngeal fibrous polypi have been de- scribed in the section on the nose. Mucous polypi are found in the pharynx, formed of myxomatous tissue and sometimes covered with normal mucous membrane. They are benign growths, and do not return after thorough removal by avulsion. Congenital polypi, in which the surface is covered by hairy mucous membrane or skin, occur, and the tumor may project from the mouth, as has been mentioned under the head of teratoma. Malignant disease of the pharynx is not uncommon. Sarcoma develops in the deeper parts of the mucous membrane and grows both externally and into the pharynx, forming tumors of considerable size, which may fill the pterygoid fossa. These tumors ulcerate quite early, and then run a rapid course with an inevitably fatal issue. The diagnosis can seldom be made in time to admit of successful extirpation. Epithelioma is of slower growth, and forms a superficial, ulcerating, indurated patch upon the mucous membrane, which extends slowly in different directions. It gen-