CONDITIONS AFFECTING OPERATIONS. 132 trunk, which involve long confinement in the recumbent posture, are apt to suffer from congestion of the lungs and from bed-sores. The constitutional condition of the patient should also be considered in performing operations. Feeble patients, who have been reduced to the condition of extreme exhaustion, for instauce, by suppuration of one of the larger joints, often bear operations in a remarkable manner. In such cases the patient's system has accommodated itself to the confinement, and the relief from pain and septic intoxication afforded by the removal of the diseased joint or by the amputation of the limb, and the cutting off of the drain upon the system from profuse suppuration, if the patient withstands the shock of the opera- tion, will often be followed by a very prompt recovery and a remarkable improvement in the constitutional condition. Corpulent Persons.—Corpulent persons after middle life are not good subjects for operation, often presenting a sluggish circulation and a tendency to pulmonary congestion. In such patients confinement in bed is apt to be badly borne; it is difficult to change their position, they are apt to suffer from bed-sores, and the vitality of the wound itself seems to be largely affected by the immense amount of adipose tissue, which is poorly supplied with blood, so that repair is slow and imperfect. Gout and Chronic Rheumatism.—Persons suffering from gout and chronic rheumatism are not unfavorable subjects for operation, if it is not done during an acute attack of either of these diseases. It should always be remembered that, although the diathesis itself does not affect the result, there may be present cardiac or renal changes which will have some influ- ence upon it. Alcoholism.—Persons suffering from chronic alcoholism, whose di- gestive and excretory organs are deranged, whose nervous system is ex- hausted, and whose power of assimilating food is diminished, are the worst possible subjects for surgical operations. Operations in this class of patients should be undertaken with great caution, and as far as possible should be restricted to those which are urgent- and necessary to save life. It is not only in the hard drinkers that the constitutional effects of alcohol may com- plicate operations unfavorably, but also in the class of patients who use alco- hol habitually but never to the point of intoxication. Serious operations in alcoholics are occasionally found to do remarkably well, but at other times wound complications seem especially apt to develop, and the patient, even after he has abstained from alcohol for some weeks, may after an operation or a severe injury suddenly develop an attack of delirium tremens. Condition of the Urine.—Examination of the urine should be made in all cases where it is possible before subjecting patients to serious operations, as information obtained from this source may result in a modification of the operation. Diabetes.—Diabetics are generally considered most unfavorable subjects for surgical operations. All authorities are agreed upon the unfavorable course of wounds and the gravity of operations in diabetic patients. Strict asepsis, however, has rendered operations in these subjects more favorable. Although trivial operations upon this class of patients, such as the opening