917 PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. signs of internal hemorrhage, the appearance of blood in the urine, and the formation of a retroperitoneal tumor of considerable size about the kidney, caused by the extravasated blood. Rupture of the bladder will be recognized by inability to pass the urine, and the retention may be accompanied by tenesmus. If cystitis be present, a very acute peritonitis may follow the ac- cident, but the peritoneum reacts slowly to healthy urine, and in some cases the symptoms of inflammation have been obscure for three or four days after the accident. Rupture of the bladder may also take place in that part of the organ which is not covered with peritoneum, in which case urine is ex- travasated in the cellular tissue, and results in the formation of abscesses in the pelvis and lower part of the abdomen. An injury of the stomach, if slight, may be accompanied by vomiting, and bright blood may be thrown up, but when the wound is extensive vomiting is impossible. Peritonitis sets in quite promptly, and food may find its way through the wound into the peritoneal cavity, and produce intense pain, as in perforation of the stomach by an ulcer. The wound of the stomach may be situated on the posterior wall, and a subphrenic abscess will then result instead of a general peri- tonitis. In very small punctured wounds of the stomach and intestine the mucous membrane generally becomes everted, blocking the opening and pre- venting escape of the contents. Meanwhile adhesions may form, and an abscess or spontaneous closure and recovery may result, but this fortunate conclusion is very rare. Laceration of the intestine is followed by the pro- duction of a localized or general peritonitis, according to the size of the wound and the amount of fecal extravasation. In none of these latter acci- dents is hemorrhage an important factor, unless there has been some injury of the mesentery as well. Injury of the large intestine is less dangerous than that of the small, as the contents are likely to be more solid and the fecal extravasation is less extensive. The introduction of hydrogen gas into the bowel to determine if a perforation is present is dangerous, as it increases the existing tympanites and may cause additional fecal extravasation. Treatment.—The treatment of these injuries depends upon the partic- ular organ involved, and in the first place one should determine, if possible, whether any of the viscera have been injured. This diagnosis must be made before peritonitis develops, for if interference is delayed until symptoms of peritonitis appear it will be too late usually to save the patient. The results of the earliest laparotomies are not good, the mortality being from fifty to seventy-five per cent. It is estimated that contusion of the abdomen with rupture of the liver or spleen results in death in about five-sixths of the cases. Injuries of the stomach and intestine, if left untreated, have a mortality even higher than this, although instances of spontaneous recovery are not unknown when the perforation was small. It may be considered settled that if a patient has suffered from an injury severe enough to make it prob- able that one of the abdominal organs has been injured and that there is danger of peritonitis, laparotomy should be performed, provided that it can be done within from twelve to twenty-four hours after the accident by a sur- geon of experience and with all the facilities of a modern hospital. If such advantages are not at hand, it is wiser to trust to nature for a recovery. Laparotomy for gunshot wounds will probably never be a successful feature