335 WOUNDS OF VEINS. should be arrested by digital pressure applied to the vessel as it passes over the rim of the pelvis, and two ligatures should be applied, one to each side of the wound, and the division of the artery should be completed if it has not been entirely severed. Secondary hemorrhage should be controlled by again securing the bleeding ends of the vessel in the wound. If bleeding- recurs, the external iliac may be tied ; but this procedure is apt to be fol- lowed by gangrene of the limb, so that it is generally considered a safer procedure after repeated secondary hemorrhage from the femoral artery to amputate the limb at the seat of the bleeding. Popliteal and Tibial Arteries—Hemorrhage from these vessels should be controlled by the application of two ligatures to the wounded vessel, one on each side of the wound, and if the artery has not been com- pletely divided its division should be completed between the ligatures. INJURIES OF VEINS. Contusions of veins may result from the same causes that produce a similar condition in arteries, but, as a rule, are much less serious injuries, from the fact that the blood-pressure is much lower and primary and secondary hemorrhage are much less severe. Thrombosis of a vein may occur at the seat of injury, but, as the collateral circulation is usually very free between the veins, the return circulation is soon established. Septic infection of a thrombosed vein is, however, a very serious and often fatal complication. Laceration or Complete Rupture of Veins.—These injuries, if large veins are involved, may cause rapid and excessive loss of blood ; pro- fuse and rapidly fatal hemorrhage may result from wounds of the femoral, iliac, or hepatic veins, as well as from the venous sinuses of the cranium, in which collapse of the walls cannot take place, from the fact that the walls are adherent to the cranial bones. Bleeding from small veins is usually not profuse, and may be spontaneously arrested, or may continue for some time, from the fact that the walls of veins do not contain as much elastic and muscular tissue as those of arteries, so that contraction of the ends of the wounded vein does not take place to favor the arrest of hemorrhage. Extensive extravasation of blood often follows the subcutaneous rupture of comparatively small veins. Symptoms.—In venous hemorrhage dark-colored blood escapes in a continuous stream, and the bleeding is controlled by pressure applied to the vessel at the distal side of the wound, and is increased by pressure applied at the proximal or cardiac side of the wound. Treatment.—In punctured or longitudinal wounds of small veins, as the blood-pressure is low, pressure may be relied upon to control the bleed- ing ; in larger veins, if the wound in the vein be a small one, a lateral liga- ture should be applied if possible, or the wound may be clamped by haemo- static forceps, which are allowed to remain in place for three or four days, or the wound may be closed by fine silk or catgut sutures introduced with a fine ordinary sewing-needle. Repair of the wounded vein should take place without obliteration of its lumen. Complete rupture or extensive