1068 HYPOSPADIAS. incision sufficiently free to enlarge the opening to the necessary size must he made without any attempt to preserve its shape. Atresia of the urethra most commonly occurs at the meatus, but may involve the glandular portion or even the entire canal, an abnormal opening between the rectum and the bladder usually existing in the last variety. The urethra will often be found distended with urine behind the closed por- tion, and can be readily incised. An imperforate meatus can be punctured with an aspirating needle in hopes that the atresia may not extend far backward, but if urine cannot be obtained at the depth of an inch the attempt should be given up. The urethra should then be opened in the perineum if it can be felt by a rectal examination, but if it cannot be recog- nized, a suprapubic fistula must be made, through which it may be possible to insert an instrument into the urethra from above and find its position and extent. The urethra can be constructed by a plastic operation later. Hypospadias and Epispadias.—The most common deformity of the urethra is hypospadias, which occurs in some degree in one out of every three hundred males born. Hypospadias is a more or less complete ab- sence of the floor of the urethra. Epispadias is the absence of the roof of that canal. Both are the results of faults in development, the parts which should spring from each side to unite in the middle line and form the genitals failing to accomplish their union. The cause is probably the same as that of other congenital defects, and is most frequently the press- ure of amniotic bands or the formation of amniotic adhesions, as described in the section on hare-lip, or perhaps the pressure of the umbilical cord drawn across the perineum. A less probable theory ascribes both deformities to a disturb- ance in the formation of the urethra owing to a failure of the glandular and penile por- tions to unite. As the anus forms separately from the rec- tum, so the glandular portion of the urethra and the meatus form separately from the rest and are united with the main urethra at a later period in foetal life. The theory supposes that this junction fails to take place, or is imperfectly made, and the obstruction in the ure- thra by the septum between the two portions results in the re- tention of urine at a very early period in foetal life, with disten- tion of the urethra and sloughing of its floor or of its roof, similar to the extravasation of urine from urethral stricture, and thus the deformity is produced. There are three grades of hypospadias, according to the po- Fig. 827. Perineal hypospadias.