761 CARCINOMA OF THE TONGUE. tressing and painful forms of cancer, and usually proves fatal within two years, but may run a more rapid course. It is more common in males than in females, and is most frequently seen between the ages of forty-five and fifty-five. In the majority of cases some form of local irritation is the exciting cause of the disease. Smoking, the local irritation of the organ caused by alcoholic drinks, the irritation produced by the stem of a tobacco-pipe or a sharp or rough tooth, scars resulting from wounds, badly fitting tooth-plates, in fact, any local cause of irritation of the tongue, may be followed by the development of cancer of this organ. Benign growths of the tongue, if they have existed for some time, may become epitheliomatous, and the development of epithelium in a certain number of cases of leucoplakia and psoriasis linguae has been pointed out by But] in. Chronic ulceration Of the Organ arising from WOUnds Or from Carcinoma of the tongue. (Museum of the ° ° German Hospital of Philadelphia.) broken-down gummata may also be an exciting cause of carcinoma of the tongue. There is no doubt that the con- tinuous use of caustics applied to ulcerated surfaces upon the tongue often converts a benign ulcer into a malignant one. Symptoms.—The ulcer is usually a deep one, with irregular nodular edges, and is surrounded by an area of induration, but may occasionally present a fungous appearance. As soon as the ulceration is well developed there is an excessive flow of saliva and foul blood-stained discharge ; pain is also a prominent symptom, and is felt in the tongue and the ear ; the lymphatic glands in the submaxillary region are soon involved, and later those of the neck. The growth often extends from the tongue and involves the floor of the mouth. The infiltration and binding down of the tongue in- terfere with its mobility, so that speech and swallowing soon become diffi- cult. Death results from a slow septic poisoning, from exhaustion follow- ing the constant pain, or from profuse hemorrhage if the lingual vessels are opened by ulceration, and in some cases septic pneumonia may cause a rapidly fatal termination. Diagnosis.—All ulcerations of the tongue in patients over forty years of age should be looked upon with suspicion and should be carefully studied. Chancre and tuberculous and syphilitic ulcerations are most frequently con- founded with carcinoma of the tongue. Chancre of the tongue is apt to be met with in younger subjects than those in whom carcinoma is likely to occur, and is soon followed by enlargement of the glands and the develop- ment of symptoms of syphilis. Syphilitic ulceration and gummata generally improve rapidly under the use of full doses of iodide of potassium, but con- stitutional syphilis does not preclude the possibility of the development of cancer in a patient having such a history, and it is a well-recognized fact that the disease sometimes develops in broken-down gummata.