880 MEDIASTINAL ABSCESS. a certain extent. Eupture of the diaphragm is a serious injury, and may be associated with injury of the thoracic or abdominal viscera, or with hernia of the intestines or stomach through the rent: strangulation of the latter organs may lead to a fatal result. Wounds of the diaphragm are generally associated with penetrating wounds of the chest or abdomen ; the sharp extremity of a fractured rib may also cause a wound of the diaphragm. If the wound is small and hernia does not occur, and if the adjacent viscera are not severely injured, the prog- nosis as regards recovery is good. The symptoms of rupture or of wounds of the diaphragm are a rapid and irregular pulse, disturbed respiratory action (diaphragmatic action being diminished and the action of the acces- sory muscles of respiration being increased), pain, dyspnoea, coughing, and in some cases hiccough. If a hernia exists there may be a peculiar resonance at the seat of injury, and auscultation may disclose the presence of fluid in the intestines or the stomach as they rest in the thoracic cavity. Treatment.—Small wounds of the diaphragm in which no hernia has occurred probably heal promptly, and it is often impossible to diagnose these lesions. In a case, however, of contusion or wound of the chest or abdomen where the presence of a rupture or wound of the diaphragm with hernia of either the stomach or the intestines can be made out, it is justifiable to open the abdomen and search for the wound in the diaphragm, reduce the pro- lapsed viscus, and close the rent with sutures. A few successful cases in which this procedure was adopted have been reported. Congenital Defects of the Diaphragm.—A congenital defect is sometimes observed in the diaphragm ; a considerable portion may be want- ing, or there may be a congenital fissure which permits some of the abdom- inal organs to escape into the thoracic cavity. This condition is not likely to be recognized during life unless strangulation of the hernia occurs, in which event a laparotomy should be performed and an attempt made to reduce the hernia and close the fissure. Mediastinal Abscess.—Abscess of the mediastinum may result from traumatism, such as contusions, fractures, gunshot wounds, or punctured wounds of the anterior region of the chest. This form of abscess may have its origin in abscess of the neck, in which case the pus burrows down behind the deep cervical fascia, or may result from suppuration of tubercular medi- astinal glands, or from caries or necrosis of the sternum. The symptoms of mediastinal abscess are fever, deep-seated pain which is increased upon coughing or swallowing, dyspnoea, oedema of the tissues over the sternum, and dilatation of the superficial veins. The abscess may point at the lateral aspect of the sternum or at the ensiform cartilage. Treatment.—If there is evidence of pointing at the sides of the sternum or at the ensiform cartilage, an incision should be made, the pus evacuated, and the cavity drained. If, however, there is no evidence of pointing in these situations, the sternum should be trephined and the abscess opened and drained. Tumors of the Mediastinum.—Tumors of the mediastinum may be benign, such as lipoma, fibroma, dermoid or hydatid cysts, or enlargements of the thymus or mediastinal glands. Aneurism may also exist in this