LIGATION OF THE RADIAL ARTERY. 386 Fig. 290. divided, care being taken not to injure the basilic vein, which should be drawn posteriorly ; the deep fascia is next cut through and the fibres of the biceps muscle are exposed; this muscle should be drawn forward, and the sheath of the vessel enclosing the artery and veins is exposed. The median nerve is pressed aside, and, the sheath having been opened, the artery is separated from its veins, and the needle is passed from the median nerve around the vessel. In ligating the brachial artery the occasional high division of the vessel should be borne in mind. Ligation of the Brachial Artery at the Bend Of the Elbow.—In ligating the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow the surgeon should make an incision along the inner edge of the tendon of the biceps muscle, two inches in length. (Fig. 289.) The skin and super- ficial fascia having been opened, the bicipital aponeurosis is exposed; this being divided, the artery will be found immediately below, the median nerve being some distance to the inner side. After isolating the veins, the needle should be passed around the vessel from within outward. Collateral Circulation.—After ligation of the brachial artery the circulation of the parts below is carried on through the superior and inferior profunda, or through the anastomotica magna, which inosculates with recurrent branches from the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries. (Fig. 290.) Ligation of the Radial Artery.—The radial ar- tery extends in a straight line from a point half an inch below the centre of the fold of the elbow to the inner side of the styloid pro- cess of the radius. (Fig. 291.) The radial artery may be tied at its upper, middle, or lower third, or at the root of the thumb. Collateral circulation after ligation of the bra- chial artery in its lower third. (Agnew.) Fig. 291. Lines of the radial and ulnar arteries. (Agnew.) Ligation of the Radial Artery at the Upper Third of the Fore- arm.—In ligating the radial artery at this point, an incision two and a half inches in length, on a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the ulnar side of the styloid process of the radius, is made ; it should begin one and a half inches below the bend of the elbow. (Fig. 292.) The