398 CONTUSION OF NERVES. may be the seat of pain as well as the skin. The paroxynis may be brought on by exposure to a draught of cold air or by movement of the facial muscles. The patient often exercises great caution in the movement of the jaws or lips in eating and talking, from the frequency with which these movements bring on a paroxysm of pain. Treatment.—The treatment of neuralgia in the majority of cases be- longs to the domain of medicine, and consists in the use of anodynes and counter-irritants, and the employment of massage and the galvanic current, together with the use of constitutional remedies, such as iron, arsenic, quinine, strychnine, phenacetine, and antipyrin. Where, however, me- dicinal treatment fails to give relief, various operative procedures may be practised upon the nerves, such as neurectasy, or nerve-stretching, neurotomy, neurectomy, acupuncture, or galvano-puncture. The descrip- tion of these various operations will be given under Operations upon Nerves. The treatment of neuralgia due to the inclusion of a nerve in a mass of callus or a cicatrix consists in freeing the nerve from the compressing tissue by dissecting out the cicatrix or chiselling away the callus, and such operations are often followed by relief. Neuralgia due to bulbous enlarge- ment of nerves in stumps after amputation is treated by excision of the bulbous ends of the nerves. Operations for the relief of neuralgia when none of the previously mentioned conditions are present are seldom fol- lowed by permanent relief, but occasionally such a fortunate result fol- lows ; in the majority of cases, however, temporary relief is obtained. In epileptiform and intractable facial neuralgias operative treatment alone is capable of giving relief. Neurotomy, neurectomy, and nerve-stretching (neurectasy) act by interrupting the transmission of stimuli along the nerve- trunks or branches and putting at rest an over-stimulated nerve-centre. INJURIES OF NERVES. Injuries of nerves are more common in the upper extremity than in the lower, from the fact that they are anatomically more exposed. Nerves may be injured by contusion or compression, or may be incised or lacer- ated. Contusion Of Nerves.—Nerves in exposed positions may suffer from contusion, such as the musculo-spiral nerve in the arm, the ulnar at the elbow, and the brachial plexus in the neck. Slight contusions of nerves are usually followed to a greater degree by loss of motion than by loss of sensa- tion. Severe contusion of a nerve may be followed by a loss of function as marked as that following complete section of the nerve. We have recently had under our care a case of contusion of the external popliteal nerve fol- lowing an outward dislocation of the knee, in which the loss of power in the parts supplied by the nerve was complete. (Fig. 302.) In this case, upon exposure of the nerve at the seat of injury some months afterwards it was found that about an inch of the nerve was converted into a fibrous cord; resection and suture were practised, with a satisfactory result, If after con- tusion of a nerve there is loss of muscular power, but it is still capable of conveying sensory impulses, the prognosis is good ; but if after a few months