808 OPHTHALMIA NEONATORUM. bacillus discovered by Dr. John Weeks, of New York, or sometimes on the pneumococcus of Fraenkel. The prognosis is good. The treatment consists in frequent washing of the lids with tepid water and Castile soap, the instillation of a saturated solution of boric acid, and, if the discharge is free, painting the tarsal conjunctiva with a solution of nitrate of silver, five grains to the ounce. The nasal mucous membrane, which is almost always associated in the inflammation, should be sprayed with a mild antiseptic solution. Purulent Conjunctivitis.—This manifests itself in two chief forms: Purulent Conjunctivitis of New-Born Children, or Ophthalmia Neonatorum.—This disease depends upon an infection of the eyes during birth, and in virulent forms is always due to the presence of the gonococcus of Neisser. Nearly always both eyes are affected, and usually the disease begins on the third day after birth, although it may be delayed until the tenth or the twelfth day, especially if the infection is secondary. The symptoms are those of a violent conjunctivitis—namely, great swelling of the mucous membrane, oederua of the lid, and the free secre- tion of thick creamy pus, which is highly contagious. The nutrition of the cornea is always threatened, and frequently ulcers form, so that if the dis- ease is neglected or badly treated extensive sloughing of the cornea may occur, with destruction of sight, owing to perforation of the ulcers and the formation of adherent cicatrices, which later bulge and produce the condi- tion known as staphyloma of the cornea. The treatment is both preventive and curative. The preventive treat- ment consists in all measures which are known to modern antiseptic mid- wifery, and particularly in infected cases the method of Crede, which con- sists in dropping one drop of a two per cent, solution of nitrate of silver in each eye immediately after birth, the lids being subsequently covered with small compresses soaked in a solution of salicylic acid. It is not necessary to repeat this instillation. The curative treatment comprises three measures : first, during the in- flammatory stage, the local application of cold, which may be applied with small compresses of lint thoroughly chilled by being placed upon blocks of ice, from which they are transferred to the closed lids, and renewed as often as may be necessary to keep up a uniform cold impression. Second, scrupu- lous cleanliness, the conjunctival cul-de-sac being irrigated every ten or fifteen minutes with a saturated solution of boric acid, or a solution of bichloride of mercury 1 to 10,000, or of formalin 1 to 3000. Third, nitrate of silver as soon as the discharge is free and creamy, applied by dipping a small mop of absorbent cotton into a solution ten grains to the ounce (or twenty grains to the ounce), and carefully touching the swollen mucous membrane of the everted lids, subsequently neutralizing the excess by flood- ing the surfaces with a saline solution, and continuing the application of the saline solution until the white scum which follows the application of the silver has been washed away and the mucous membrane resumes its red appearance. The lids should then be greased with pure white vaseline, some of which should be introduced within the conjunctival cul-de-sac. If ulcers form, it may be necessary to instil a weak solution of atropine, two