674 DEFORMITIES OF THE FINGERS. reduction by extension, followed by flexion, abduction, and outward rotation, under anaesthesia, with fixation in the abducted position for three months, after which locomotion is allowed, abduction being gradually lessened. Congenital dislocations other than of the hip are very rare, and are often associated with other marked defects of development, as acrania, spina bifida, etc. Among other rare congenital malformations are absence of the upper and lower extremities, and partial or complete absence of the humerus, femur, tibia, and fibula. Club-hand is also a rare affection, and may be congenital or acquired. The congenital variety consists usually in a flexion (rarely an extension) of the hand on the forearm, often in combination with an inclination towards the radial or the ulnar side. There may be partial or complete absence of the radius, and there are sometimes associated malformations of the fingers. Acquired club-hand may follow injuries to nerves or other forms of paral- ysis, the contraction of cicatrices, and injuries of the bones. When the epiphysis of the radius or of the ulna is destroyed by disease or injury, the growth of the other bone forces the hand into an unnatural position. Treatment.—In mild cases manipulations and tenotomies are of benefit. In those following epiphyseal inflammation the excision of a sufficient por- tion of the uninjured bone to permit of straight- ening is indicated. Amputation may be called for if the limb is absolutely useless. Deformities of the Fingers.—These com- prise supernumerary digits, or a deficiency in their number, and congenital or cicatricial web- bing of the fingers. Supernumerary digits are usually situated on the ulnar side of the hand, but are also ob- served upon the radial side. (Fig. 614.) They may be perfectly formed, even to the presence of a distinct metacarpal bone, or may spring from another finger, sometimes being attached only by a very slender pedicle. Amputation is indicated if they are unsightly or useless, and supernumerary thumb. (Agnew.) should be performed in early life. Webbed Fingers.—Syndactylism consists in a union of two or more, sometimes all, of the digits in a part or in their entire length, and is often associated with a lack of development. The union may be by skin, muscle, and fibrous tissue, or the bones may be fused. (Figs. 615, 616.) In complete webbing the hand is often shortened, and there are restricted movements of the fingers. Treatment.—Several operations have been devised for the relief of this deformity, their object being to bring flaps of sound skin to the opposing sides of the fingers, and to secure rapid healing at the bottom of the cleft, as granulation starting here is liable to lead to recurrence of the condition by the formation of a cicatricial web. Didot's method, as shown in the diagram (Fig. 617), consists in turning back a palmar and a dorsal flap from opposite fingers, and, after dividing the rest of the web, bringing them