TREATMENT OF DISLOCATION. 556 accommodate themselves to their changed relations, and more or less motion may be regained, although the restoration of function is not usually so marked as in the case of ball-and-socket joints. Prognosis.—The restoration of function after the reduction of recent dislocations is usually more or less complete, although it is not uncommon for stiffness or weakness of the joint to persist for some time. In many cases the occurrence of a dislocation predisposes to subsequent dislocation in the same joint upon exposure to violence, being due to weakness of the ligaments following the previous injury. An unreduced dislocation causes a certain amount of permanent disability, although in some joints a fair amount of restoration of function takes place after a time if the patient per- sists in using the part. Treatment.—The indications in the treatment of dislocation are to restore the displaced parts to their normal position as soon as possible, and later to encourage the restoration of function in the joint. Reduction of Dislocations.—The principal obstacles to the reduction of dislocations are the anatomical relations of the joint and muscular resist- ance ; the latter may be manifested by reflex tonic contraction due to trau- matic irritation, to voluntary contraction when the patient resists the efforts of the surgeon, and to passive muscular force from the stretching of the muscles across the bony prominences. The interposition of ligaments, nerves, blood-vessels, and fascia may sometimes act as a mechanical obstacle to the complete reduction of dislocations. Anaesthesia.—This is a most powerful aid in the reduction of dislocations; the active element of mus- cular spasm is entirely obliterated, and the general relaxation favors the manipulations necessary for the restoration of the displaced bone. An anaesthetic should, as a rule, be given before attempting the reduction of a dislocation, unless there is some contra-indication to its use, such as feeble- ness or pulmonary disease. Manipulation.—At present the most widely employed method of reducing dislocations is manipulation, which consists in the employment of those movements which relax the muscles, preventing the return of the displaced bone, and favor the contraction of muscles which may aid the reduction of the dislocation, at the same time the bone being moved in such a direction as to favor its replacement. The great majority of dislocations can be reduced by manipulation. In cases in which the reduction cannot be accomplished by manipulation, it may occasionally be necessary to resort to the application of force by extension and counter- extension, or to open incision. Extension and Counter-Extension.— This method of reduction is liable to do great violence to the soft parts in the neighborhood of the joint, causing laceration and rupture of muscles, veins, and blood-vessels, and even avulsion of limbs, and is now resorted to only in exceptional cases of long-standing dislocations. Extension or counter-extension may be employed by the hands of the surgeon or his assistants, or by the use of various mechanical devices, such as compound pulleys, the Spanish windlass, Jarvis's adjuster, or the Indian puzzle. The extending bands usually employed are made by folding sheets or towels into cravats and applying them by a noose knot or clove hitch at some distance from the displaced end of the bone.