VELPEAU'S BANDAGE. 181 Fig. 112. should be placed on the body of the scapula of the sound side, and be secured by a turn made by carrying the bandage over the shoulder of the affected side, near its outer portion ; it should then be continued downward over the outer and posterior surface of the arm of the same side behind the bend of the elbow, and oblicpiely across the front of the chest to the axilla of the opposite side, thence to the point of starting. This turn should be repeated to fix the initial extremity of the bandage ; the second turn being completed, the roller should be carried transversely around the thorax, passing over the flexed elbow, and from this point to the axilla, and through this to the back; from this point the roller should be carried over the shoulder and down the outer and posterior surface of the arm behind the elbow, and obliquely across the front of the chest, through the axilla to the back, and continuing should pass transversely across the back of the chest to the elbow, which it encircles, and then be passed to the axilla. These alternating turns are repeated until the arm and forearm are bound firmly to the side and chest. The vertical turns over the shoulder, each turn covering two-thirds of the previous turn, and ascending from the point of the shoulder towards the neck, and from the posterior surface of the arm towards the elbow, are applied until the point of the elbow is reached. The transverse turns passing around the chest and arm are so applied that they ascend from the point of the elbow to- wards the shoulder, each turn covering in one-third of the previous one, and the last turn should pass transversely around the shoulder and chest, covering the wrist. (Fig. 112.) The extremity of the band- age should be secured by a pin, and ad- ditional fixation will be obtained by introducing a number of pins at the points where the turns of the bandage cross. Desault's Bandage.—To apply this bandage three rollers are required, as well as a wedge-shaped pad which fits in the axilla. The first roller of Desault's band- age secures the pad in the axilla by cir- cular turns of the bandage around the pad and chest; the second roller holds the arm in contact with the pad and the side of the chest by circular turns of the bandage around the arm and chest. Third Roller of Desault's Bandage.—In applying this roller the initial extremity of the bandage should be placed in the axilla of the sound side, and the bandage carried obliquely over the front of the chest to the shoulder of the injured side, and then pass over this and be conducted down the back of the arm to the elbow; thence obliquely upward, over the upper fifth of the forearm, to the axilla of the sound side; from this point it should be carried backward obliquely over the back of the Velpeau's bandage.