127 CYSTS. leave a sinus. If the sinus closes, the cyst is liable to form again. The con- tents of these cysts are the ordinary sebaceous matter secreted by the gland. The wall of the cyst is formed of the fibrous capsule of the distended gland and is lined with flat epithelium, the normal cuboidal epithelium of the sebaceous gland being flattened by pressure. Treatment.—The treatment of these cysts is excision, and the entire capsule must be removed, or the epithelial cells which line it will reproduce the tumor. When the cyst is not yet adherent to the surrounding parts its removal is easy, a simple incision being made in the skin and the sac being extirpated unopened, but if there are adhesions the removal may be more dif- ficult. In such a case it is well to make two short incisions at the edge of the sac on opposite sides, so as to introduce a blunt instrument and work up to- wards the apex of the sac, where the adhesions are usually strongest. It will often be possible to enucleate the sac under the skin, and then the skin can be completely divided over the apex of the sac and the latter lifted out. If the sac ruptures it is best to cut entirely through the tumor, dividing the sac into two halves. The contents are wiped out, and the divided edge of the sac at the bottom is seized with a strong pair of forceps and each half twisted out of the wound. This method has the disadvantage of bringing the contents of the sac in contact with the wound, and, although they are not septic unless inflammation has set in, they are apt to hinder primary union. Mucous Cysts.—Cysts similar in structure to the sebaceous cysts are found on the mucous membranes, the only difference being in their contents and in the mucous character of the epithelium which lines them. They usually have thin walls, and a single application of a strong caustic suffices, as a rule, to obliterate the epithelial lining and effect a cure, although they may also be dissected out. They are most frecpiently found on the inner surface of the lips. They sometimes become inflamed and burst, and a spontaneous cure may result, but a recurrence is likely to follow. The ovarian cysts and cysts formed by dilatation of the gall-bladder, of the kidneys, or by some obstruction of the ducts in the mammary gland, will be described with those organs. The dermoid and branchial cysts have already been treated of. Cystic degeneration is very common in many tumors, but does not alter their course or character, except that their growth is apt to be rather more rapid under these circumstances.