EXSTROPHY OF THE BLADDER. 1087 terior walls of the organ. On the posterior wall, owing to the lack of forma- tion of the septum between the bladder and the rectum, both may open into a common cloaca, or, the anus being imperforate, the feces may be dis- charged through the urethra by way of the bladder. Extensive defects of this variety are incompatible with life, but the minor forms are sometimes seen in the adult, and may even be subjected to operation. They are fortu- nately very rare. Exstrophy.—More common is a failure of development of the anterior wall of the bladder, usually seen in connection with epispadias, which is termed exstrophy of the bladder. It is nine times as frequent in males as in females. When the exstrophy is complete the pubic bones have usually failed to unite, and the bladder is spread out on the anterior wall of the ab- domen, forming a shallow pouch of mucous membrane communicating below with the urethra, or directly continuous with the groove which represents it in the case of epispadias, the ureters opening in the usual position in the tri- gone. In the female the clitoris is also divided. Inguinal herniae are usu- ally present as well. In crying or straining the abdominal pressure forces the viscera through the defect in the abdominal wall, pushing before them the everted bladder as the covering of the hernia. Occasionally the lower bowel also terminates in this opening, the anus being imperforate. Exstro- phy of the bladder may, however, be of lighter grade, the anterior wall being deficient only at the neck in connection with epispadias, or partially wanting above, the urethra being perfect. The condition of a patient with exstrophy is pitiable, the urine leaking constantly, and the protruded vesi- cal mucous membrane being liable to inflammation and ulceration. When the child cries the urine can be seen to issue from the ureters in jets. The upper margin of the defect is marked by a cicatricial line, and extending upward from this towards the umbilicus is often seen a broad cicatricial area in which the recti muscles are deficient or separated. Treatment.—Many operations have been suggested for this condition. One of the best is Wood's method, in which a flap abundantly large to cover the entire surface is cut from above, with its base at the upper border of the defect. A lateral flap is then formed on each side of the everted bladder, each flap one-half the size of the-first, their bases being be- low at the pubes. The first flap is turned downward so that its cutaneous surface is directed towards the bladder, and su- tured to the lower edge of the defect, and the lateral flaps are then slid over and united with their raw surfaces against the exposed raw surface of the upper flap. (Fig. 835.) Maury has practised cutting a flap from the scrotum, making a small puncture in it for the penis Fig. 835. Result of operation for exstrophy of the bladder.