248 BONE-GRAFTING. warm sterilized salt solution until the surgeon is ready to replace them. The fragments or trephine button may he simply laid upon the dura in the case of injuries of the skull, or may in the case of the long bones be drilled and sutured to the surrounding bone before they are covered by the soft parts. Bone-Grafting.—This consists in splitting a portion of an adjacent bone, allowing it to retain its periosteal attachment, and turning it in and suturing it to the neighboring bone to fill a defect; or in the use of a portion of fresh bone from an amputated limb, or from one of the lower animals, and suturing it in place to the adjacent bones to fill the gap. In bone-grafting by this method the edges of the gap in the bone are freshened, and a portion of bone long enough to fill the gap is cut and sutured in position. Semi's modification of bone-grafting consists in the use of decalcified bone plates or chips. The bone plate being cut to the size of the gap and fitted into it, it may be rendered additionally secure by the introduction of a few catgut or silk sutures. In the case of large defects, where bone plates are used, they should be perforated at a number of points, to provide for drainage. In bone-grafting with chips, the bone cavity should be carefully sterilized and freshened, and should be loosely packed with bone chips. After the bone plates or chips have been introduced, the periosteum and soft parts should be closed over them by sutures of catgut or silk, or, if this is impossible by reason of a great loss of the soft parts, a tampon of iodoform gauze may be employed to keep the grafts in place. Detached portions of bone, or bone plates or chips, act only as a scaffolding for the production of new bone, and apparently never retain their vitality, disap- pearing slowly by absorption as new bone forms. Iu some cases they remain unabsorbed for a long time. Here, as in other forms of bone-grafting, perfect asepsis of the cavity, of the plates or chips, and of the surrounding soft parts is essential to success. Bone plates or bone chips are prepared as follows. The fresh tibia or femur of the ox, after the periosteum and medullary tissue have been re- moved, is split or sawed into pieces from one-half to one inch in length, which are then decalcified by being placed in a fifteen per cent, watery solution of hydrochloric acid and allowed to remain for three weeks, the solution being changed daily. At the end of this time they should be re- moved from the hydrochloric acid solution and thoroughly washed, cut into thin plates or strips and washed in a weak solution of caustic potash, and then placed in a 1 to 1000 mercuric bichloride solution for forty-eight hours. They may then be kept for use in a solution of 1 to 500 of bichloride in alco- hol, or in a saturated solution of iodoform in ether. Before being used they are soaked in a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, and subsequently in sterilized water.