DEFORMITIES OF THE JAWS. 771 the symptoms presented are often very similar to those of abscess of the antrum, and there may be considerable doubt as to the nature of the affec- tion unless there occurs a discharge of pus from the nose. Treatment.—In cases of tumor of the an- trum in which doubt exists as to the nature of the swelling, an exploratory puncture should be made through the canine fossa before under- taking any radical treatment. In cases of sar- coma of the antrum, excision of one-half of the upper jaw is the operation which gives the best results. In epithelioma the anterior surface of the antrum should be exposed by turuing up a flap from the cheek, when the diseased bone and soft parts should be thoroughly removed, with any infiltrated skin which overlies the bone ; if the tissues of the orbit or eyeball are involved, they should also be removed. A large, gaping wound results, which is packed and allowed to heal by granulation. The results of operation in cases of sarcoma are better than those in epithelioma; in both cases, however, recurrence is likely to take place sooner or later, but the patient's life is often prolonged and he is saved much suffering by the operation. Deformities of the Jaws.—Congenital deformities of the jaws in connection with cleft palate, hare-lip, and median fissure of the lower jaw have already been considered (page 731). There is also very rarely ob- served defective development of the lower jaw, which causes the patient to present a peculiar appearance, and is associated with fixation of the jaw, rendering the use of solid food almost impossible. Acquired deformities of the jaws are not uncommon, and inay result from injuries or from the contraction of the soft parts following burns or sloughing. The habit of thumb sucking in infants and children may cause a change in the shape of the jaws, as well as in the direction of the teeth. In hypertrophy of the tongue the pressure of the enlarged organ may cause a change in the shape of the jaws. Treatment.—In cases of acquired deformities of the jaw little can be done in the way of treatment, aside from removing the cause of the deformity, to prevent further distortion. In congenital deformities associated with fixation of the jaw, excision of the condyles or division of the neck of the condyles has been followed by an improvement in the motion of the jaw. DISEASES OF THE TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. The temporo-maxillary articulation may be the seat of acute arthritis or of osteo-arthritis. Acute Arthritis.—This may result from injuries, but most frequently follows the exanthemata, and is therefore most common in children. The symptoms are pain, swelling, and redness over the articulation, and if sup- puration occurs the pus may come to the surface over the joint or may Fig. 685, Sarcoma of the antrum. (Mears.)