TETANUS. 65 rarely found in the tissues, for Kitasato has shown that they disappear from the point of inoculation within ten hours, and they have very seldom been discovered in the blood or other parts. They appear to need the assistance furnished by the presence of sloughs, foreign bodies, or the bacteria of sup- puration in order to live, tetanus being most frequently seen in connection with wounds in which these conditions are furnished, such as gunshot wounds and frost-bite. The disease is found in nearly three-quarters of the cases to have origi- nated from wounds of the hands, feet, and lower extremities, and in one- tenth of the cases from those of the head and neck, but it is probable that the liability of wounds of these parts is due to their greater exposure to injury and to infection. Age and sex make no difference in the liability, but it is said that the negro is more likely to contract the disease, and that it is more common in hot climates, facts which may also be dependent upon other causes, such as unsanitary habits of life. The symptoms following thyroidectomy, which closely resemble tetanus, have nothing to do with that disease, depending upon some toxic materials circulating in the blood. Tet- anus is frequently seen in the new-born, as the result of infection of the um- ilical wound, and is occasionally met with in the puerperal woman, in which case it must not be mistaken for eclampsia. It is impossible for tetanus to develop without inoculation through a wound, although the latter may be concealed in the mouth or elsewhere, the cases reported to have followed eating the flesh of animals which had died of the disease not being beyond criticism. The bacillus of tetanus does not prevent primary union, and the wound may be healed soundly before the disease breaks out. The patho- logical changes produced by the disease are not fully known, the appear- ances formerly supposed to indicate an ascending neuritis and myelitis not being conclusive, for the principal change observed is capillary congestion, which may be only a passive result of the circulatory disturbances. Symptoms.—The disease begins from one to twenty days, usually about one week, after infection, with pain and stiffness in the back of the neck and in the muscles of the jaw. In some cases these are preceded by paraly- sis or spasm of the muscles near the seat of infection, but this limitation is rare in man, and is not easy to produce in the experiments upon animals, general symptoms having usually begun at the time the patient comes under observation. Examination of the muscles affected shows that they are in a state of chronic contraction, with occasional paroxysms of intense spasm. These symptoms spread to the adjoining groups of muscles, and in severe cases soon involve the entire body, and it has been observed that in this ex- tension the parts on the same side of the body as the point of infection are first and most severely attacked. If the muscles of the back are chiefly affected, the body is bent backward into an arch, a condition known as opisthotonus. If the body is bent forward, it is called emprosthotonus, if side- ways, pleurosthotonus, and if it remains perfectly straight and rigid, ortho- tonus. The spasms are caused by the least sensory reflex, such as the slam- ming of a door, the touch of a finger, even a draught of air, or attempts to swallow. In the intervals the patient lies as still as possible, to avoid exciting another spasm. Priapism is sometimes present. The muscles of 5