271 COMPLICATIONS AFTER AMPUTATION. and controls muscular spasm. The application of a splint often conduces to the patient's comfort. When the stump has been dressed in this manner it is placed in a moderately elevated position upon a soft pillow. After-Treatment of Amputations.—The after-treatment in cases of amputation, if reaction has been established and shock does not occur after the operation, is usually very simple. The patient should be given a moderate amount of stimulant, according to the condition of his pulse, should be kept quietly in the recumbent position with the head low, and should be given for the first few days liquid diet. Dressing of Stumps.—If the patient has no elevation of temperature and no other evidence that the wound is not running a perfectly aseptic course, we are not in the habit of dressing the stump until the seventh day, even if drainage has been introduced. At this time the materials for dress- ings should be prepared ; a rubber blanket covered with sterilized towels should be slipped under the stump, and the bandage should be divided with scissors before the stump is lifted from its pillow. The stump then being carefully raised by an assistant, the dressings are removed, and the surface may be irrigated with a bichloride solution or with sterilized water; the drainage-tube is removed, and if the appearance of the stump is satisfactory, there being no tension from the sutures, a sterilized or antiseptic dressing is applied in the same manner as the primary dressing, after which the stump is allowed to rest for another week without dressing. Of course the greatest possible care should be exercised as regards asepsis in the redressing of stumps. At the expiration of the second week the dressings are removed, and by this time union is usually so far advanced that the sutures may be removed. A light antiseptic dressing is then applied, and the patient is allowed to sit up in bed, or, in case of amputation of the hands or feet, may even be allowed to leave his bed. This description applies to a case which runs an aseptic course after amputation ; but, unfortunately, in spite of the greatest care, cases may run a different course, and numerous complications may be developed. Complications after Amputation.—Shock.—This is an impor- tant and serious complication which may follow amputation. The treatment of the condition has already been described. Intermediary" or Consecutive Hemorrhage.—In spite of the great- est care in securing the blood-vessels at the time of operation, often a num- ber of small vessels escape observation, which do not bleed at the time of operation, but bleed after reaction has been established, and as a result of this blood escapes through the drainage-tubes, and if drainage has not been employed the stump becomes stuffed with blood-clots and bloody serum escapes between the flaps. The presence of consecutive hemorrhage is shown by the soaking of the dressings with blood and serum, or occasionally the dressings contain blood-clots. Treatment.—This consists in elevating the stump and applying pressure by means of a compress and a bandage. If in spite of this treatment the stump becomes painful and the oozing continues, it is wiser to remove the dressings, open the stump, remove the clots, and irrigate the stump with sterilized water as hot as can be borne by the patient. If bleeding vessels