1147 HYDROCELE. the cord, and is then passed around it and tied and the cord divided. The spermatic artery and the artery of the vas are then separately ligated. The canal of the vas is touched with the cautery to destroy the mucous membrane, and the wound is closed with sutures. Hydrocele.—Hydrocele is the distention of the serous sac surrounding the testicle or cord with a serous effusion. In rare cases the fluid is milky, like chyle, from fatty granules suspended in it, owing to lymphatic obstruc- tion from fllaria disease or a wounded lymphatic vessel. Hydroceles having opalescent or milky contents may contain spermatozoa coming from the rupture of spermatoceles into the sac. The changes in the tunica vaginalis in cases of hydrocele consist in thickening of the walls by a deposit of fibrin and an overgrowth of the endothelial cells. Adhesions may take place between different parts of the membranes, forming cavities, which in their turn become dilated, so that a multilocular hydrocele is formed. In other cases it is evident that the multilocular hydroceles have originated from congenital subdivisions of the tunica vaginalis. Hydrocele may be acute or chronic. Acute hydrocele accompanies inflammations of the testicle, seldom attaining a large size, but suppurating in rare cases. Chronic hydrocele may occupy the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, or the remains of the funicular process along the cord, or may surround an ectopic testi- cle in any situation. When the funicular process is shut off from the vaginal cavity below and from the peritoneum above, and serum accumulates, cysts may be formed anywhere between the internal inguinal ring and the testicle, which are known as encysted hydroceles of the cord. If the peritoneal orifice of the process remains open but it is shut off from the tunica vaginalis below, a congenital hydrocele of the cord may form—a very rare condition. The encysted hydroceles are rather small, but may extend well up into the inguinal canal. The testicle is felt free below them, but the irreducibility and translucency of the tumor make the diagnosis from hernia simple. There may be more than one of these cysts. As a rule, they are thin-walled, but we have seen one case with a wall as thick as the tunica vaginalis. They are most common in children, and probably often disappear spontaneously before adult life. They should be aspirated, and if they return they should be treated by carbolic acid injection, by incision, or by excision, according to the methods described below. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis.—The most common variety of hydrocele is that of the tunica vaginalis. In some cases it has a continua- tion into the inguinal canal in the funicular process, which has closed above but remained open towards the tunica vaginalis; this condition is called infantile hydrocele. In rare instances the sac may even extend into the abdomen and form a cyst there in connection with the tunica, known by the name of hydrocele en bis-sac. Hydrocele is found at all ages, but is most frequent at the two extremes of life. In some cases the funicular canal which connects the peritoneum with the tunica vaginalis in the foetus remains open, and any fluid confined in the peritoneum will descend into the cavity of the latter. Hydroceles thus formed are called congenital, and are re- ducible, the contents returning into the abdomen when the patient lies down or when the sac is compressed. It is said that tuberculosis of the perito-