414 WOUNDS OF TENDONS. occasionally some particles of the bone: the symptoms of this injury are similar to those of rupture of the tendon. Treatment.—In case of a ruptured tendon it is possible to have repair take place, if the gap between the ends is not too extensive, by putting the parts at rest and in such a position as to favor the apposition of the ends of the tendon. The time required, however, is considerable, and the functional result may be imperfect. In view of these facts, it is wiser to treat cases of ruptured tendon by exposing the ends by incision and suturing them together with silk, chromicized catgut, or kangaroo tendon sutures, and after dressing the wound applying a plaster of Paris bandage to fix the part and hold it in such a position as will secure the greatest relaxation of the injured tendon. In cases of tearing away of the insertion of the tendon of the quadriceps extensor femoris or ligamentum patellae from the patella, to secure a satis- factory result it is often necessary to expose the separated tendon, and after drilling the patella at a number of points to pass kangaroo tendon or silk sutures through the perforations in the bone and through the ends of the tendon to fix its insertion in the normal position. Wounds of Tendons.—"Wounds of tendons may be punctured, incised, or lacerated, and may be subcutaneous or open. The subcutaneous variety of incised wounds is frequently produced in the ordinary operation of tenotomy, and the favorable course which these wounds run is known to every surgeon. Punctured wounds of tendons, unless septic matter is intro- duced by means of the puncturing instrument, are usually followed by little trouble. Open incised wounds of tendons are serious injuries, both as re- gards inflammatory complications which may arise if the wound becomes septic, and the loss of function which results if union of the divided ends of the tendon is not secured. These wounds are often seen in connection with incised wounds of the skin, fascia, and muscles, and result from injury by sharp-edged instruments, such as knives or scythes, or from broken glass. These wounds of tendons are usually seen about the hands and feet. Treatment.—The divided ends of the tendon should be found, and fastened together by the introduction of one or two sutures of silk, catgut, or kangaroo tendon. Difficulty is sometimes experienced in locating the proxi- mal end of the tendon, it often being so much retracted that it becomes neces- sary to enlarge the wound to find it. It is well also to suture the divided sheath of the tendon with a few sutures of fine silk or catgut. The wound should be carefully dressed, and the part placed in the position of relaxation and put at rest by the application of a splint or plaster of Paris bandage. Lacerated wounds of tendons shoidd be treated in the same manner. Here it may be necessary to trim away some of the lacerated tissue to obtain a good surface for apposition. Secondary Suture of Tendons.—It sometimes happens that the division of a tendon escapes notice at the primary dressing of a wound, and after healing has occurred it is found that there is a certain amount of loss of function, which points to the division and non-union of the tendon. In such a case the ends of the divided tendon should be exposed by an incision ; and there is here often considerable difficulty in finding the proximal end, which is generally greatly retracted. When exposed, the ends of the tendon