COLOSTOMY. 950 Jejunostomy.—In some cases of incurable obstruction of the pylorus or duodenum which cannot be treated by gastro enterostomy, a loop of the jejunum has been secured in an abdominal wound, so that the patient may be fed in a similar manner to that employed after gastrostomy. The opera- tion is rare and not very successful. It is known as jejunostomy. Colostomy.—Lumbar Operation.—The extraperitoneal or old opera- tion of colostomy (formerly called colotomy) is done in the lumbar region upon the ascending or the descending colon. An incision is made parallel to and one inch below the last rib, extending outward from the edge of the quadratus lumborum. This is deepened until the fat in the neighborhood of the kidney is exposed in the wound. The finger then searches for the bowel, which will usually be found distended in these cases, owing to the obstruction; the peritoneum is pushed aside if it comes in sight, and the bowel is secured by a loop of silk on a curved needle, which is passed through the part not covered with peritoneum, and is drawn into the wound, where it is sutured to the skin and incised. The intraperitoneal operation is done upon the caecum, the transverse colon, or, most frequently, the sigmoid flexure. Iliac Operation.—The sigmoid flexure may be opened by several methods, the simplest being that of an oblique incision parallel to Poupart's ligament, about half-way be- tween the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the middle line. The peritoneum is incised and sutured to the skin around the edge of the open- ing, making an aperture in the abdominal wall an inch and a half in length. The loop of the sigmoid is drawn up to the wound and sutured by continu- ous Lembert stitches to the peritoneal margin. If there is no need of haste, a delay of twenty-four hours before incising the bowel will allow strong adhesions to form. If it is necessary to incise the bowel at once, additional care must be taken to make the stitches very close, so that there shall be no danger of infecting the peritoneum with feces. A better method is to draw the bowel entirely through the abdominal wound and pass a strong glass rod or drainage-tube through its mesentery, so that the glass rod supports the weight of the intestine. A few sutures are made to secure the bowel to the margin of the opening, and also to unite the two limbs of the loop under the rod. The intestine is cut across upon the rod in twenty-four hours, no anaesthetic being required. Enterectomy, or Resection.—To remove a tumor of the bowel, the loop containing it is isolated by two strips of gauze tied around the bowel some distance from the part to be resected, after expressing the contents of the loop. The mesenteric attachment of the portion to be removed is then tied off by several silk or catgut ligatures. The part to be excised is seized with a long clanip on each end, and the bowel divided beyond these clamps. If the tumor is situated near the end of the small intestine or in the large intestine, the two ends of the bowel may be secured in the abdomi- nal wound and an artificial anus made. This is the best procedure if the patient is very feeble, or if the operation is a very tedious one with severe hemorrhage or great shock. Otherwise it is best to unite the ends of the intestine. This may be done by a circular suture, the mucous membrane being united first, then the muscular and serous coats, and finally the serous