402 SECONDARY SUTURE OF NERVES. after division and occlusion of blood-vessels, which explains the cases of apparent immediate regeneration after suture of nerves. Treatment of Divided Nerves.—Becently divided nerves should be approximated by sutures; great care should be exercised to render the wound aseptic, so that healing may be obtained without suppuration. If the ends of the divided nerve are much torn or lacerated, they should be trimmed off or freshened so as to obtain a good surface for approximation. If the amount of lacerated tissue which has to be removed is considerable, it may be necessary to stretch both ends of the nerve before they can be brought into apposition. There may also be a considerable amount of re- traction of the ends of the nerve, so that it will often be necessary to enlarge the wound before they can be found. The material used for sutures should be one which will be absorbed, such as fine chromicized catgut or kangaroo tendon. The sutures should be passed through the nerve and its sheath about an eighth of an inch from its cut extremity. As few sutures as possible should be used, two usually being sufficient. The sheath may also be united with a few sutures, and the sutures should be tied just tight enough to bring the divided ends of the nerve together. An ordinary sewing-needle is better than the bayonet-pointed surgical needle, as it does not injure the fibres in its passage. After applying the sutures the wound should be closed and dressed, and the part fixed in the best position to secure relaxation of the nerve. Eestoration of function is usually slow ; even after immediate union of divided nerves a certain amount of impairment of motion or sen- sation may be permanent. After union has occurred, the restoration of function may be hastened by the use of galvanism and massage. Secondary Suture of Nerves.—Many cases of divided nerves do not come under the observation of the surgeon for weeks or months after the injury, at which time degenerative changes have taken place in them, and the ends are usually included in a mass of cicatricial tissue. The results of secondary suture have been so satisfactory that it is always well to make an attempt to approximate the ends of the nerve. In performing secondary suturing a free incision should be made over the line of the nerve, and it should be exposed above and below the point of division. It should then be traced upward and downward into the cicatricial tissue; the latter should be freely removed, and a fresh section made of each end of the nerve. The bulbous enlargement upon the peripheral end should be re- moved, as it consists largely of fibrous tissue, or the upper portion of it only should be left. If there is much separation between the freshened ends it will be found necessary to stretch the nerve freely, and by so doing the ends can usually be brought into contact. Two or three sutures of fine chromicized catgut or kangaroo tendon should next be passed through the ends of the nerve and secured, and the wound then closed and dressed. Eestoration of function after secondary suture is very slow; marked im- provement may not be manifested for months, or even years. Punctured Wounds of Nerves.—The treatment of punctured wounds of mixed nerves which are followed by severe pain, muscular spasm, or hyperesthesia of the skin, probably due to a neuritis, consists in putting the part at complete rest by the use of splints, the local use of anodyne applica-