FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. 478 Fracture of the Acetabulum.—This fracture may consist in a single fissure or a number of fissures ; the lip of the acetabulum may be de- tached, and in some cases the head of the femur has been driven through the acetabulum into the pelvis. When the lip of the acetabulum is broken, the head of the femur may slip out of the acetabulum when the thigh is rotated. Fractures of the acetabulum may result from violence applied to the sides of the pelvis, or from force transmitted through the femur. Symptoms.—The symptoms of fracture of the acetabulum are often very obscure, and it may be confounded with fractures of the neck of the femur or dislocations of the head of the bone. Fracture of the posterior lip of the acetabulum, permitting displacement of the head of the femur back- ward and upward, is especially liable to be confounded with posterior dis- location of the femur. Treatment.—The patient should be placed upon a firm bed, and an ex- tension apparatus similar to that employed in the treatment of fractures of the femur should be applied to the limb of the injured side. This often re- lieves the patient's discomfort, and the extension should be continued for at least four or five weeks. Where it is found that the edge of the acetabulum is fractured, the addition of a compress above the fragment, held firmly in place by broad strips of adhesive plaster, will give additional fixation. FRACTURES OF THE FEMUR. Fractures of the femur are common injuries, and constitute about six per cent, of all fractures. They occur at all ages, but fractures of certain por- tions of the bone are met with at different periods of life. Fractures of the shaft of the bone are common in children and adults, of the lower ex- tremity in adults, and of the neck in the aged. Fractures of the femur may involve the upper extremity, the shaft, or the lower extremity. Fractures of the Upper Extremity of the Femur.—These in- clude separation of the upper epiphysis, fracture of the neck, and fracture of the great trochanter. Separation of the upper epiphysis of the femur is a rare accident, which may occur in patients under eighteen years of age, and is usually the result of force directly applied. The symptoms of this fracture are ever- sion of the foot, elevation of the trochanter, and crepitus. The treatment of separation of the upper epiphysis is similar to that of fracture of the neck of the femur. Fractures of the Neck of the Femur—Fractures of the neck of the femur in which the line of fracture is within the insertion of the cap- sule of the joint are known as intracapsular fractures, are peculiar to ad- vanced life, and are most frequent in females. Intracapsular fractures of the femur are by far the most common fractures of the femur which are seen after fifty years of age. It is probable that a large number of the cases classed as intracapsular fractures are really "mixed fractures"—that is, the line of fracture is partly within and partly without the capsule. They often occur as the result of the application of a trivial amount of force, and are peculiar from the fact that bony union is not common. The great fre- quency of fracture of the narrow part of the neck of the femur in advanced