1173 LACERATION OF THE CERVIX. The bowels are kept closed by small doses of opium for three or four days, constipation being aided by strict limitation of food, but a milk diet should be avoided because of its tendency to form hard masses of feces. Before the first movement of the bowels an injection of a large quantity of warm water should be given, and retained long enough to soften the feces as far as possible, or, if they are hard, an injection of ox-gall may be used, or the mass may be broken up by the little finger introduced into the anus. An ounce or more of olive oil is to be thrown into the rectum so as to lubricate the lower part just before the bowels move, and during their action it is well to have lateral pressure made by the fingers of the nurse, so as to prevent gaping, the forefinger and thumb being placed on each side of the labia majora. The patient must on no account be allowed to strain. If gas collects in the rectum and causes pain during the period of constipa- tion, it may be withdrawn by the introduction of a catheter. Laceration of the Cervix.—The cervix (Fig. 887) is always torn slightly in parturition, and often to such an extent as to produce a positive Fig. 887. Normal (nulliparous) cervix uteri. (Madden.) Fig. 888. Unilateral laceration of cervix. (Emmet.) Fig. 889. deformity. The small lacerations require no attention, but severe tears may extend to the vaginal junction, and may involve the base of the bladder or the ureters and form urinary fistula?. They may be single (Fig. 888) or multiple, a bilateral tear being especially common. They usually lie at the side, as if that were the weakest point, but may have a stellate arrangement when multiple. (Fig. 889.) As a result of the laceration the cervical mucous membrane is everted and becomes the seat of a chronic inflammation with cystic hypertrophy of the Nabothian glands. The wounds are generally infected from the first, and consequently heal with the production of much cicatricial tis- sue, which may extend into the surrounding cellular tissue. These masses of cicatricial tissue may compress the nerves and cause severe symptoms which may demand treat- ment by complete excision of the scar-tissue, even when the laceration itself is trifling. Subinvolution, endometritis, and salpingitis are frequent consequences of the infection of these wounds. The large and heavy uterus is often retroverted or prolapsed, especially when a Stellate laceration of cervix. (Emmet.)