104 TREATMENT OF ANGIOMA. on page 211. If the operation is done aseptically there is no very serious objection to the method, except the danger of causing extensive sloughing of the skin, and the ligature need not be tied tightly, for a very slight pressure is sufficient to control the blood-supply and to allow the vessels to be filled with clot. A very old method of treatment consists in the injection of styptic substances, such as the sesquichloride of iron, but this method is dangerous, because it forms clots in the vessels, and occasionally small clots may be washed away by the blood-current and occasion embolism. Far safer and very efficient is Esmarch's method of treating the tumor by styptic substances, which consists in passing sterilized stout silk threads wet with the iron solution back and forth through the substance of the tumor to the healthy skin about it, interlacing the threads in all directions. A large number of sutures should be passed at intervals of an eighth of an inch or a quarter of an inch, left in place for some days, and then with- drawn. Before any such operation is done, the parts should be rendered thoroughly aseptic, and suppuration along the course of the threads should be avoided by sterilizing the threads, instruments, and hands. If suppura- tion should set in, it may assist the cure, but there is danger of pyaemia, and an unsightly scar results, while if asepsis is preserved, the scar con- sists simply of punctate spots of cicatricial tissue. In the third class of methods also we endeavor to produce scar-tissue, and this may be done by exciting suppuration. Vaccination, for instance, has been practised directly on the angioma, and cures have thus been obtained, but the objection to in- ducing suppuration is that the infection is likely to travel beyond the part intended and to do more damage than the surgeon wishes. Another method of producing scar-tissue is multiple scarification by a sharp knife', a method which is suitable for superficial angiomata, the resulting hemorrhage coming from such small vessels that it is readily controlled by pressure. The cure is produced by the scars following the multiple incisions, the ves- sels being divided and obliterated at many points. The treatment by the punctate cautery, a red-hot needle being thrust repeatedly into the tumor, is based on a similar theory. An ordinary needle heated in the flame of a spirit-lamp may be employed, or, in the case of large angiomata, where a scar is not so important, the fine point of a thermo-cautery will answer. Finally, we may describe the treatment by electrolysis. The negative or positive pole is to be used according to the effect desired. If an attempt is to be made to cure the tumor by thrombosis only, the positive pole should be attached to the needle which makes the punctures, clots forming in the track of the needle, and the vessels being obliterated. If the negative pole be used, the tissue around the needle is actually destroyed by the current and cicatricial tissue produced, as in the method with the punctate cautery. In either case the other pole is attached to a large sponge electrode applied on the neighboring skin. The positive pole produces the smoother scar, but it is tedious and unreliable. The negative pole also requires frequent sittings, even if a considerable number of punctures is made at each sitting. The treatment is somewhat painful, but we prefer not to give an anaesthetic, as so many applications must be made. It is best suited for the port-wine mark. The choice of the method of treatment depends upon the size and situa-