906 DISEASES OF THE PANCREAS. and if there is no strangulation the point of obstruction should he left untouched and an artificial anus made above. When the patient has re- covered his strength, the surgeon can perform an anastomosis or resection of the affected part of the bowel at a subsequent operation. Sometimes the obstruction disappears spontaneously, and if this is the case, or if it is removed by a subsequent operation, the artificial anus will usually close of its own accord. Many cases are brought to the surgeon so late that the patient is exhausted and an extensive laparotomy is out of the question, the performance of a colostomy being the only resource. The opening should be made iu the sigmoid flexure, if it is certain that the obstruction is below that point. Otherwise the abdomen should be incised in the right iliac- region, and the caecum opened if it is found distended. If the caecum is collapsed or not found, the most convenient distended loop of bowel is to be secured and opened. The patient's condition may be such that it is dangerous to administer a general anaesthetic, but with the aid of cocaine an artificial anus may be made, and a limited exploration of the abdominal cavity may be carried out without causing great suffering. SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE PANCREAS. Hemorrhage.—Hemorrhages take place in the substance of the pan- creas from unknown causes, and may produce fatal results. The blood may collect behind the peritoneum, or in the gland itself, and its quantity is usually not very great. The symptoms are acute pain in the abdomen, vomiting, and constipation, and they closely resemble those of acute per- forative peritonitis and intestinal obstruction. Inflammation.—Suppurative inflammation of the pancreas may result in the formation of small multiple abscesses or a single large collection of pus. The symptoms are local pain extending to the back, vomiting, and constipation, followed by diarrhoea. Fever appears on the second or third day, with some tympanites limited to the epigastrium, and a progressive emaciation. If death is postponed the characteristic diarrhoaa and vomiting appear, with fatty globules in the stools and vomited matter. There may be sugar in the urine. For multiple abscesses surgery can do nothing, but a single abscess might be evacuated, and, if limited to the glandular sub- stance, it might be treated by extirpation of that part of the organ. Gangrene of the pancreas presents symptoms resembling those of inflammation, and is followed by pyaemia or peritonitis. In rare cases recovery has taken place, the sloughs making their way into the bowel. One case which was operated upon through an error in diagnosis resulted fatally. These various conditions of the pancreas cause symptoms resem- bling those of peritonitis or intestinal obstruction, and if a laparotomy should be performed, and nothing else be found when the abdomen is opened, the surgeon should always examine the region of the pancreas. Tumors.—Tumors of the pancreas may be cystic or solid. Cysts.—The cysts are supposed to be retention cysts from obstruction in the duct caused by a calculus, a stricture (often of traumatic origin), or a neoplasm. The cysts most frequently originate in the tail of the organ. They grow behind the peritoneum, and may project forward between the