HORDEOLUM. 803 obtained at the earliest possible moment, the incisions being so placed as to avoid injuring the ocular muscles and their attachments. After a lacerated wound of the orbit, the surgeon should carefully ex- amine to see that the recti muscles have not been torn. If they are lacerated or detached, an endeavor should be made to suture the divided ends. A rare injury is dislocation of the eyeball between the lids. If the optic nerve is not torn, the eyeball may be replaced after dividing the external commissure, which is subsequently sutured, and the eye covered with a compress bandage. Traumatic Enophthalmos.—After a blow upon the orbit or in its immediate neighborhood, there may be marked sinking of the eyeball upon that side, giving rise to an appearance which causes the impression that the patient is wearing a badly fitting artificial eye. Cases of enophthalmos are due to cicatricial contraction of the retrobulbar connective tissue following periostitis and inflammation, to atrophy of the orbital cellular tissue, to paralysis of Miiller's orbital muscle from lesion of the sympathetic, or to fracture of the orbital walls. DISEASES OF THE EYE. In the following pages only the most important external diseases of the eye and its appendages, together with the chief operations, are considered. The functional examination of the eye, ophthalmoscopy, keratometry, and the correction of errors of accommodation, refraction, and muscular balance are omitted. For the consideration of these the reader is referred to special treatises on ophthalmology. DISEASES OF THE LIDS. Abscess of the lid, the result of injury, exposure, or disease of the orbit, is not an uncommon affection, and should be treated on the prin- ciples applicable to abscess elsewhere in the body. Malignant pustule and spreading gangrene are occasionally found in the same situation. Hordeolum, or Stye.—A stye is a furuncle, and consists in suppura- tion of the connective tissue in the margin of the lid. Styes may be due to errors of refraction or to constitutional derangements. They tend to recur or come in crops. The treatment should consist in the vigorous application of a hot boric acid solution, or rubbing the swelling with an ointment of yellow oxide of mercury, and incision of the inflamed tissue as early as possible. The internal administration of sulphide of calcium is useful under certain cir- cumstances. The refractive condition of the eye should always be investi- gated, and when necessary suitable glasses provided. Herpes Zoster Ophthalmicus.—Herpetic vesicles may appear over the area supplied by the supra-orbital, the supratrochlear, and, more rarely, the nasal nerve. Under the last-named condition irido cyclitis, keratitis, and even ophthalmitis may result. The prognosis is always serious, and herpes zoster in this situation has not infrequently been the cause of a suppurative inflammation which has destroyed the eye itself.