854 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE LARYNX. tracheotomy is done, and, if the cartilages are accurately brought together by sutures, prompt healing results, with little change in the voice. Fig. 733. Epithelioma involving one side of the larynx. (Ag- new.) Fig. 734 MALIGNANT GROWTHS OF THE LARYNX. The malignant growths met with in the larynx are sarcoma and car- cinoma. Sarcoma.—This is a rare growth in the larynx, and the diagnosis can be made only by removing a portion of the growth and examining it microscopically. Sarcoma of the larynx, if situated entirely within the cavity of the organ, should be treated by a preliminary tracheotomy, followed by thyrotomy to expose the growth, which should be thoroughly removed. The results following the removal of sarcomata of the larynx are more favorable than those following the removal of epitheliomata. Epithelioma.—This disease may originate in the vocal cords or other parts of the larynx (Figs. 733, 734), or may involve the larynx by extension from the pharynx, and usually is observed between the ages of forty-five and sixty-five. The transformation of benign growths into epitheliomata is not uncommon. Symptoms.—Epithelioma developing within the larynx may present the same symptoms as a benign growth, hoarseness and dyspnoea as the tumor increases in size, but soon neuralgic pain, dys- phagia, and fixation and enlargement of the neigh- boring lymphatic glands occur. The most suggestive symptoms of epithelioma of the larynx are gradually developing hoarseness and a tendency to infiltration, with fixation of the vocal cord on the side of the dis- ease. Laryngoscopic examination reveals the pres- ence of an ulcerating growth, and if a portion of this is removed the characteristic structure of epi- thelioma is found. In cases where the larynx is involved secondarily no difficulty in the diagnosis can occur. In epithelioma of the larynx death results from exhaustion following the inability to take sufficient food, or from obstruction to the breathing, or from septic pneumonia. Treatment.—In cases of malignant disease of the larynx the treatment depends upon the con- ditions presented in individual cases. In many cases in which the larynx and the surrounding parts are extensively involved, or in those in which the disease has spread to the larynx from other parts, radical operative treatment cannot be considered. In such cases, as soon as dyspnoea is developed, a low tracheotomy should be performed and a tube introduced, which relieves the obstructed breathing, prolongs life for a considerable period, and ren- Epithelioma of the larynx. (Agnew.)