435 FRACTURES OF THE NASAL BONES. region of the fracture. Other surgeons think that their use causes irritation of the skin and delays the process of repair in the fracture, and therefore strongly condemn their employment. We have never seen any evil results arise from their use, and often employ them in fractures near or involving the joints, but use them only for a few days. An ointment of ichthyol, 1 part, and lanolin, 3 parts, spread upon lint and applied over the part, will often prove a satisfactory dressing in cases of fracture accompanied with pain and swelling, where the surgeon does not wish to use any of the lotions before mentioned. A layer of cotton wrapped around the part at the seat of fracture may be employed in the place of the previous dressing before the application of the splints. Eepair of Fractures is considered on page 74. FRACTUKES OF SPECIAL BONES. Fractures of the Nasal Bones.—Fractures of the nasal bones are usually produced by direct force, and the line of fracture may be either transverse or oblique ; the former are most common, and the seat of fracture is usually about half an inch above the lower margin of the bone ; the upper and frontal portions of these bones are very thick and strong aud will resist a great degree of force. The line of fracture may extend to the superior maxilla or to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; the latter is a dan- gerous complication because of the liability to septic meningitis. These fractures may be comminuted or compound, either through the skin or the mucous membrane. Deformity.—As the soft parts swell quickly after the injury, the de- formity following this fracture is often masked unless the case is seen early. The deformity consists in lateral displacement, the nose being turned to one side, or the fragments may be depressed. Symptoms.—The symptoms of fracture of the nasal bones are epis- taxis, deformity, mobility, and crepitus. If there is flattening or lateral deviation of the nose, even though crepitus is not discovered, the existence of fracture may be assumed. Complications.—Hemorrhage is often at first profuse in fractures of the nasal bones, but usually subsides quickly ; however, cases are occasion- ally seen in which the hemorrhage continues and is so severe that plugging of the nasal cavities with antiseptic gauze may be required. Emphysema.—In compound fractures of the nasal bones in which the mucous membrane and the periosteum have been torn, air may pass into the cellular tissue of the face. This is not a serious complication, as the air gradually disappears as the healing of the fracture advances. Treatment.—The treatment consists in replacing the fragments, if dis- placement exists, by manipulation with the fingers over the seat of fracture, and by pressure made from within the nostrils by a probe or steel director, the end of which is wrapped with a little cotton. Before resorting to any manip- ulation within the nasal cavities the mucous membrane should be thoroughly cocainized, to render the operation painless. When there is depression of the fragments or displacement of the septum, after correcting the deformity by raising the depressed fragments or bending the septum into place with a