SIMPLE ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. 515 absorption. In cases where marked osseous changes have occurred, and where in spite of constitutional and local treatment pain is a prominent symptom, we have often seen great relief follow a free incision of the thick- ened bone by a Hey's saw; of course great care should be observed to prevent infection of the wound. If gummata have broken down and become infected, they should be curetted and dressed with iodoform gauze until cicatrization has occurred. Actinomycotic Periostitis.—This affection is observed in the jaws, and results from the extension of the actinomycotic process from the alve- olus ; marked swelling of the jaw occurs, but pain is not a prominent symptom; abscess may occur if pyogenic infection takes place in the affected tissue. Treatment.—The medicinal treatment consists in the administration of iodide of potassium, which seems to have some control over this disease, rhe operative treatment, however, is more to be relied upon, and consists in sxposure of the infected tissues by incision and their removal by the knife, the curette, or the actual cautery. OSTEOMYELITIS. Osteomyelitis is an inflammation of the medullary canal and the tissues lining the cancellous portion of bone, and may present itself as simple acute, icute infective, and chronic osteomyelitis. Although these clinical varieties of osteomyelitis are recognized, it is probable that they all depend upon the action of pyogenic organisms, and in the less serious varieties of the affec- tion the virulence and the extent of the bone affection are controlled by the individual resistance of the tissues to the infection. Simple Acute Osteomyelitis.—This affection occurs after some defi- nite injury to bone, such as fractures, simple or compound, gunshot wounds, or amputation, and is characterized by inflammation of the medulla of the bone, in which the vessels are congested and dilated. Effusion and exuda- tion take place, as well as increased cell-growth. The inflammatory exuda- tion in the medulla may undergo resolution, organization, or suppuration. If developed to a slight extent, the constitutional disturbance may not be marked, and resolution or organization may occur with comparatively little destruction of bone-tissue, as is seen in the repair of fractures and the closing of the medullary canal after amputations. If the extent of injury is greater, and inflammation is more widely and intensely developed, the vitality of a limited extent of bone may be affected, suppuration may occur, and a circumscribed necrosis of the bone result. In view of the limited extent of the bone-destruction and the less serious constitutional symptoms which are manifested, many observers are disposed to consider that this form of osteomyelitis does not result from infective organisms ; but there is reason to believe that any case of osteomyelitis in which suppuration occurs or necrosis is present is due to infective organisms introduced through a wound or by the circulation. Treatment.—In simple acute osteomyelitis following injuries of bone it is often difficult to recognize the condition at the outset, as it is generally limited in extent and accompanied by little constitutional disturbance. If