TRACHEOTOMY. 863 of its relatively greater depth, the large size and number of the veins covering it, and its proximity to the large veins and arterial trunks at the root of the neck. The low operation should be preferred for the removal of a foreign body impacted in a bronchus, or when tracheotomy is required to relieve dyspnoea caused by a tumor of the thyroid gland or other growth pressing upon the upper portion of the trachea. Operation.—The patient being placed in position, shown in Fig. 744, an assistant holds the head firmly, so that it cannot be tossed from side to side, while another assistant, standing at the side of the patient, secures his arms and prevents him from slipping off the pad upon which his shoulders rest. The operator next makes an incision through the skin in the median line of the neck, from one and a half to two inches in length, the position of the cricoid cartilage being the middle point. Having di- vided the skin, he will often see large veins lying in the superficial fascia. These should be displaced and the fascia divided between them upon the director. The surgeon should keep his incisions strictly in the median line of the neck, for this is the line of safety, and should be careful, as the wound increases in depth, not to make the incision too short, so that it becomes funnel-shaped. When the deep fascia is exposed it should be picked up and divided upon a director, and any enlarged veins in the line of the wound displaced or ligated on each side and divided between the ligatures. The operator next looks for the intermuscular space between the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, which can generally be found without difficulty, and the muscles are separated in this line with the handle of a knife or with a director, when the isthmus of the thyroid gland will be exposed. The muscles should now be held aside by retractors placed on each side, care being taken that the movable trachea is not included in the grasp of the retractor, which would shut off respiration. This accident has occurred, and the cervical vertebra? have been exposed, in searching for the trachea. If the case is not an extremely urgent one, the surgeon should proceed with deliberation, and carefully explore the wound with the finger to locate exactly the position of the trachea, and to ascertain, if possible, the presence of anomalous arteries. The isthmus of the thyroid gland having been ex- posed, occupying a position over the first three tracheal rings, is usually found surrounded by a plexus of veins, which should be displaced with a director or ligated on each side and divided between the ligatures. The thyroid isthmus is next drawn upward or downward, according as the surgeon desires to open the trachea below or above this body ; this can often be done without difficulty, especially its displacement upward. Having displaced the. isthmus of the thyroid gland, the trachea, yellowish white in appearance, covered by the tracheal fascia, will be exposed. This fascia should next be thoroughly broken up with a director or the handle of the knife, so as to bare the trachea, and in doing this the operator can feel the fascia crepitate under the finger from the presence of the air drawn in with inspiration. The operator should now examine the wound, to see that it is free from hemorrhage, and replace the retractors, so as to expose as large a portion as