488 FRACTURES OF THE CONDYLES OF THE FEMUR. Fig. 411. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the femur. (Hamilton.) Fig. 412. Separation of the Lower Epiphysis of the Femur.—This ac- cident occurs in children or in patients under eighteen years of age, aud is usually produced by forcible twisting of the leg. The deformity generally consists in the epiphysis being car- ried forward and the end of the shaft of the femur being forced backward into the popliteal space, where it may injure the vessels and nerves. (Fig. 411.) The majority of cases of separation of the lower epiphysis of the femur which have come under our observation have occurred from the leg being thrust between the spokes of a moving wheel, and have usually been cases of compound separa- tion of the epiphysis, with injury of the vessels and nerves, requiring amputation. Treatment.—The treatment of separation of the lower epiphysis of the femur consists in reduction of the deformity by manipulation and the application of an ex- tension apparatus to the leg, with lateral support to the leg and thigh by the use of padded splints or sand- bags, or in the application of a plaster of Paris bandage. Fractures of the Condyles of the Femur.—These fractures are usually produced by blows or falls upon the knee. The line of fracture may pass between the condyles, separating one condyle from the shaft (Fig. 412), or both condyles may be separated, and the shaft of the bone may occupy a position in front of them. In condy- loid fracture the most serious complications are involve- ment of the knee-joint and injury to the vessels and nerves in the popliteal space. Treatment.—In these fractures the reduction is effected by flexing the leg upou the thigh, at the same time making extension, carefully avoiding all rough movements for fear of the displaced fragments injuring the popliteal nerves or vessels. After the deformity has been reduced the exten- sion apparatus should be applied to the leg, and lateral support should be furnished by means of splints and bran- bags or by sand-bags. If one condyle only is separated, the uninjured condyle prevents shortening, and the exten- sion apparatus is not required. The leg and thigh may then be placed in a long fracture-box, and a compress placed over the in- jured condyle to hold it in position, or a plaster of Paris bandage, including the foot, leg, and thigh, may be employed in the place of the latter dressing. The results following fractures of the condyles of the femur are usually not satisfactory ; the involvement of the knee-joint is apt to lead to permanent stiffness or ankylosis of the joint, and it is, therefore, important that the limb should be kept as nearly as possible in the extended position in case this complication should follow. The Ambulant Treatment in Fractures of the Femur.—This treatment has recently been recommended and practised in Germany and in this country with apparently good results, and consists in applying a Fracture of the external condyle of the femur. (Agnew.)