LITHOLAPAXY. 1104 thetic is advisable whenever the patient can bear it. When nephritis is present, chloroform is preferable to ether. Lithotrite, evacuator, and all other instruments are to be thoroughly sterilized. The lithotrite is introduced closed, the stone having previously been located with the searcher, or by using the lithotrite as a searcher. The blades are opened, a rotation of a quarter of a circle is made towards the stone, and the two jaws are slowly pushed together with great gentleness, in order to seize the stone. When the stone has been seized, firm pressure is made upon it, and the lithotrite is returned to its position with the beak turned upward as nearly as possible in the middle line, carrying the stone in its jaws. The locking device throws the screw into action, and the jaws are screwed together and the stone broken. This manipulation must be of the most gentle character from beginning to end, for the stone may fly out of the instrument and injure the bladder, or the jaws may catch the walls and wound them. It may be necessary to invert the lithotrite by depress- ing the handle like the searcher in order to reach a stone behind an enlarged prostate in a pocket at the base of the bladder. The first action of the lithotrite is to break the stone into two or three pieces. These pieces are seized and broken again, and so on until they are small enough to pass through the evacuating-tube. The size of the fragments is evident from the separation of the jaws of the instrument, and when the pieces have been suf- ficiently reduced the lithotrite is withdrawn and the evacuator introduced. The evacuator is a large metal tube very slightly curved at the end to form a beak, which has a very large opening, the edges of which are bevelled so as not to injure the urethra or bladder. To its outer extremity is attached some form of aspirator, the best being Otis's or Ohismore's modification of Bigelow's original instrument. (Fig. 848.) The aspirator consists of a vessel con- taining sterilized salt solution and a large rubber bulb in connection with it and also containing the fluid, no air being allowed in either. The rubber bulb being squeezed by the hand, the fluid is driven into the bladder, and when the bulb is released it is drawn back again, bringing with it the frag- ments of the calculus, blood, mucus, and urine. These flow over the mouth of the other vessel, and the heavier particles tend to settle to the bottom, where they are retained. The bulb forces the fluid backward and forward, each aspiration bringing out fresh particles of calculus, which are added to those at the bottom of the vessel by gravity. After the small fragments are removed, those which are too large to enter the eye of the evacuator may be felt to click against it. The instrument is then withdrawn, the litho- trite introduced again, and the large fragments reduced to powder as far as possible. It may be necessary to repeat this crushing and aspiration several times in the course of the operation. A defective lithotrite may break during the crushing, and lithotomy will then be necessary to remove the broken instrument and the stone. A very annoying accident is the jamming of the jaws of the lithotrite with the fragments of the calculus, so that they cannot be completely closed, preventing the withdrawal of the instrument, because when open it is too large to pass the urethra, for the projecting fragments of calculus would lacerate the latter. In such a case it is necessary to do a lithotomy and free