315 LYMPHATIC ABSCESS. were previously evident and the appearance of some formerly too small to be detected. A considerable number of glands are apt to be affected, begin- ning in the region nearest to the primary source of infection. At first they are freely movable under the skin and on the deeper parts, but if suppu- ration occur the inflammation may spread to the neighboring cellular tissue, and they then become fixed and the overlying skin becomes adherent and reddened. Pain will usually appear at this time, if not already present. The inflammation may terminate in resolution, and the gland may return to its original size or remain permanently enlarged. Abscess.—In abscesses arising from the lymph-glands it is important to distinguish between the acute and the chronic, and especially with refer- ence to the form of infection. The acute suppuration caused by some viru- lent septic infection may be of the most threatening nature, especially if the glands lie deep under some strong fascia, as in that form of cellulitis of the neck known as Ludwig's angina ; and, on the other hand, the abscess which forms from a tuberculous gland has all the mildness of a cold abscess. It is also important to distinguish between a simple adenitis and one complicated by a periadenitis, the pus being contained in the capsule of the gland as if in a sac in the first case, whereas there may be a diffuse infiltration of the surrounding cellular tissue in the second. Cold abscesses are not without danger, for the vessels with which they come in contact may be attacked, especially at their forks or where they are exposed to pressure in the flexures of the joints. The wall of the vessel may be simply dissolved, as it were, the process being known as arrosion, or a fibrous degeneration may be set up in the muscular coat. Glandular abscesses show this tendency most frequently in persons exhausted by disease, especially in the convalescence from scarlet fever, which appears to have a very injurious effect on the glands. The possibility of such changes in the vessels makes it necessary to exercise great care in opening these abscesses, for the sudden removal of external pressure may be followed by the bursting of a weakened wall in a large vein, or even in an artery, with a fatal hemorrhage. When this accident occurs it is very difficult to secure the injured vessel, owing to its depth and to the diseased nature of its wall, and it may be necessary to ligate it at a distance. The glandular abscesses may undergo absorption, or the pus may be converted into a stringy, almost clear, fluid, forming a sort of cyst; but these terminations are rare. More common is the calcifi- cation of glands which contain minute foci of pus or degenerated tissue. The manner in which glandular abscesses discharge, if left to themselves, is characteristic. The pus is very slow in reaching the surface, fluctuation being evident long before the skin sloughs over a very small area in the centre, and the discharge persisting through this small opening for a long time. The opening is usually surrounded by bluish undermined skin, and unhealthy granulations may protrude from it. If there is periadenitis the remains of the gland may be found in the cavity of the abscess, not much altered in appearance. The diagnosis between simple or inflammatory hypertrophy and the de- velopment of sarcoma in a gland is generally possible, even if no marked signs of inflammation are present, for in hypertrophy there are usually