RESECTION OF THE HUMERUS. 637 the wound, which should be closed by sutures. The dressing consists in the application of a gauze dressing, with a pad of gauze in the axilla, and the arm should be fastened to the side in the Velpeau position. A very satis- Fig. 559. Incision for excision of the shoulder-joint. Excision of the shoulder-joint. (Agnew.) factory dressing after excision of the shoulder-joint consists in the use of the Stromeyer cushion, applied between the arm and the chest, with its apex in the axilla. After excision of the shoulder-joint, as soon as the wound is healed, the fixation dressings should be removed, and the patient should carry the arm in a sling, and be encouraged to move it, as in this excision the formation of a false joint is most desirable. Resection of the Humerus.—The whole or a portion of the humerus may require resection for injury or disease. The incision in this operation should be made upon the outer side of the bone, and carried down in an in- termuscular space on a line with the shaft, great care being taken to avoid injury of the musculo-spiral nerve, which passes around the posterior surface of the humerus and lies close to the bone between the humeral heads of the triceps muscle, at a point corresponding to the deltoid insertion anteriorly— that is, about the centre of the shaft of the humerus. When the surface of the bone has been exposed, the periosteum should be divided to the length of the incision and carefully dissected loose from the bone with an elevator. The musculo-spiral nerve is isolated and held aside while the bone is being exposed. After separating the periosteum as completely as possible, if the whole shaft of the bone is found diseased, it may be removed in one piece, or by dividing it in the middle with a saw or forceps and removing each fragment as far as the upper and lower epiphyses, or the upper or the lower portion only may require removal. In resecting the humerus for an ununited fracture, the incision is made upon the outer surface of the arm over the seat of fracture, and when the latter has been exposed the frag- ments are separated and the end of each fragment is removed with a saw to obtain a fresh bone surface. The freshened ends of the bone are then drilled and united by heavy silver wire sutures, silver plates, or screws. The dress- ing after resection of the shaft of the humerus consists in the introduction of a rubber or gauze drain and the closure of the wound with sutures. A gauze dressing should be applied, and the arm placed upon a splint, and