PATHOLOGY OF OSTEOMYELITIS. 518 rating lesion, from which pyogenic organisms enter the circulation, can be clearly demonstrated. Pathology.—The inflammation begins in the capillaries from implanta- tion of micro-organisms, and suppuration results. The veins become throm- bosed, micro-organisms entering them cause liquefaction of the coagulated blood, and pyaemia in certain cases results from fragments of infected thrombi being carried to distant organs. Thrombosis of the veins is also one of the immediate causes of necrosis. Pus may extend through the whole medullary canal and infiltrate the spongy tissue of the bone. The periosteum later becomes detached by the accumu- lation of pus between it and the bone, and at points may be de- stroyed by a phlegmonous inflain- Fig. 444. Fig. 443. mation ; the pus finds its way into the surrounding structures, and the resulting abscess either opens spontaneously or is opened by the surgeon. A layer of bone is de- veloped in time from the perios- teum, which is known as the invo- lucrum, and the whole or a portion of the devitalized shaft, known as a sequestrum, remains in its new bony sheath, usually communicating with the skin by one or more si- nuses, which open into the involu- erum, the openings being called cloaece. The size of the sequestrum resulting varies with the intensity of the infection and the amount of venous thrombosis occurring. The whole shaft of a long bone may be destroyed from epiphysis to epi- physis (Fig. 444), or a limited por- tion of the shaft may become de- vitalized. If the staphylococcus or streptococcus infection is very virulent, there is first developed a localized leucocytosis, which is fol- lowed by the development of small or extensive abscesses, and, the products of inflammation being confined within the bony walls, arrest of the circula- tion occurs, so that necrosis results. In other cases the suppuration may be circumscribed and a chronic bone abscess results, which may remain latent for months or years, when the micro-organisms may again be aroused to ac- tivity by some exciting cause, producing an acute osteomyelitis. In certain cases the attack may be so mild that pus is not formed, and a fluid resembling synovia is poured out beneath the periosteum, which may undergo mucoid degeneration and be contained in a distinct cvst: this has been described as Shaft of the tibia re- moved from a case of osteomyelitis following typhoid fever. Necrosis of the shaft of the tibia from infective osteo- myelitis.