108 STRUCTURE OF SARCOMA. its malignancy varies greatly in degree. The embryonic tissue is often found associated with fully developed tissues, and the malignancy of any tumor in which both tissues occur corresponds to the proportion between the two, for the more of the fully developed and adult tissue the tumor con- tains the less is its malignancy. Structure.—Sarcomata are formed of cells of varying shapes, always embedded in an intercellular substance, although in many cases the latter is very delicate and can be seen only by removing the cells from its meshes. The tumors are vascular, and the capillaries have very thin walls. (Fig. 66.) The walls of the vessel may be formed of endothelial cells lying directly upon the cells of the tumor, or they may be entirely absent, and the blood may flow in channels between the cells of the tumor. The tumor is often partially encapsulated, but the abnormal cells usually infiltrate the capsule somewhat. (Fig. 66.) The cells of these tumors are round or spindle-shaped, or giant-cells. The round cells may be small or large, most fre- quently the former. In either case the nucleus is very large and nearly fills the cell body. The small round-cell tumors (Fig. 66) resemble granulation- tissue very closely, and often cannot be distinguished from it except by the fact that granulation tends to the production of normal adult connective tissue, while the growth of sarcoma remains embryonic. The spindle-cells are usually small (Fig. 67), but they may attain a very large size, and the intercellular substance may be very scanty. (Fig. 68.) The giant-cells are multinuclear cells of large size, similar to those seen in ac- tively growing bone. (Fig. 69.) These cells are most frequently found in sarcomata with a tendency to produce bone (Fig. 71), but their function seems to be the absorption of the newly formed bone. In some tumors any or all of these various cells will be found combined, and the name of mixed- cell sarcoma has been applied to them. All these varieties of sarcomatous tissue are often found associated with tissues of a higher type, fibrous tissue, cartilage, bone, fat, and myxoma being very frequently combined with them: hence the names fibrosarcoma, osteosarcoma, myxosarcoma, angio- sarcoma, etc. (Figs. 70 and 71.) Gliosarcoma.—Gliosarconia is a variety of round-cell sarcoma with large cells, containing a large nucleus, springing from the neuroglia of the nerve-centres, and found only in the brain and in the eye. They are encap- sulated at first, and do not generally grow rapidly or tend to metastasis. Their chief claim to malignancy is their situation, where even a benign tumor is dangerous. They may attain a considerable size, although usually not larger than a walnut. When removed they are apt to return, for the diagnosis is seldom made until the tumors are well grown and invasion of Fig. 68. ■ . <Z3> :';> $ "»~*v«£:r • Large spindle-cell sarcoma : o, leucocyte. X 300. (F. C. Wood, M.D.)