SEPTIC INTOXICATION. 32 and entered the system is eliminated. These two facts enable us to make the diagnosis of saprsemia. It should be noted that gas production and foul odors are not always found in decomposition. Treatment.—The treatment consists in removing the decomposing blood, pus, slough, or other decomposing material, as far as possible, disinfecting what cannot be removed and the surrounding parts, assisting elimination of the poison by the bowels, the kidneys, and the skin, and administering nourishing, easily digested food and stimulants. Septicaemia.—Septicemia must be divided into at least two varieties, one due to the bacteria themselves, which may be called progressive septice- mia ; the other due to their products, to which may be given the name of septic intoxication, or toxaemia. There is no one germ which is responsible for all varieties of septicaemia, for apparently any of the pathogenic varieties is capable of producing the condition. Septic Intoxication.—In septic intoxication, or toxaemia, the patient shows symptoms due to the absorption by the blood of the ptomaines and toxines produced by some focus of growth of the bacteria in the tissues. Fever is almost always present, with its various effects, but the symptoms are not merely those of the febrile state, for many of them are the direct results of the toxines acting upon the different nerve-centres and other organs. The indifference amounting to somnolence, the delirium or coma, and the great prostration are chiefly the direct effects of the poison. The nausea, vomiting, and diarrhoea, as well as the polyuria, suppression of urine, or albuminuria often seen, are due to the efforts which the system is making to eliminate the poison, and to the irritant effect of those sub- stances. Sweating also occurs, although not so constantly as in pyaemia, and indicates a similar attempt, while an evanescent erythema or urticaria shows the irritation excited in the skin by the poison. Treatment.—If the original focus can be thoroughly disinfected, the symptoms of septic intoxication will disappear very rapidly. If this cannot be accomplished, and the local growth of bacteria continues, the patient will succumb to the depressing effects of the toxines, and this result may take place, in cases of ordinary severity, in a few days. The general treatment will be the same as that of progressive septicaemia. Progressive septicaemia is the worst form of sepsis, and one which can be resisted only by preventing its occurrence, for when the bacteria have once entered the blood, few persons are able to withstand the attack, and the issue is almost always fatal. In such cases, in addition to the origi- nal focus of disease there is the danger that the germs may multiply indefi- nitely in the blood and found colonies in other parts of the body. For- tunately, the blood can destroy, or at least limit the growth of, certain bacteria (anthrax) if the amount invading it is not too great. In spite of the enormous quantity of germs circulating in the blood, it must not be supposed that they can be found in any drop which may be examined, for experience has shown that their actual demonstration in the blood is a matter of the greatest difficulty, and is usually impossible even when they are so abundant that minute quantities of the blood will produce infection in animals. The usual channel by which the bacteria enter the circulation,