Ill CHEMICAL ANTISEPTICS. oipitate the bichloride of mercury, and then it was discovered that experi- ments which had given negative results under the old methods produced abundant cultures (Geppert). By this method it was found that anthrax spores survived ten and even twenty-four hours' immersion in a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution, and that even the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus would survive after being kept for twenty minutes in the same solution. Exactly how the chemical antiseptics act in thus suspending growth in living or- ganisms and yet leaving them capable of restoration is not understood, the most probable explanation being that the antiseptic enters into combination with the capsule of the cell, and can be freed from it by breaking up this chemical combination. It has always been evident that A^ery minute quan- tities of germicidal substances, and some substances which are not germi- cidal, would prevent the growth of bacteria, so that it is not surprising that chemical disinfectants should act in this prolonged, inhibitory way. It must be remembered that in operative surgical work no such secondary reagents are used, and that germs which will not develop are for practical purposes as good as dead ; therefore such results do not. entirely invalidate the present methods of sterilization for operations, but they should stimulate us to the discovery of better methods of sterilization, and especially to the thorough application of the methods upon which we are now dependent in order to obtain the best possible results from them. We must, moreover, be particularly careful not to employ corrosive sublimate in wounds, or in the disinfection of substances (faeces) in which sulphur compounds are likely to occur, lest they decompose the chemical and set free the bacteria. Chemical Antiseptics.—Micro-organisms can be destroyed by depri- vation of food or water, by chemicals (including toxines, etc.), and by heat. For practical disinfection, however, only chemicals and heat need concern us. We take from Koch's experiments the following list of the principal chemical antiseptics used, and their power on germs: Complete prevention of growth of anthrax spores was produced by bichloride of mer- cury, 1 to 300,000 solution; mustard oil, 1 to 33,000; arsenate of potash, 1 to 10,000; salicylic acid, 1 to 1500; carbolic acid, 1 to 850; boric acid, 1 to 800 ; alcohol, 1 to 12.5. It is yet an open question whether iodoform, as employed in wounds, has any antiseptic effect; it certainly has none in laboratory cultures. To destroy completely the vitality of anthrax spores requires the prolonged action of any chemical, and among the ordinary germicides only bichloride of mercury, pure iodine, and cresol (with the addition of sulphuric acid) can accomplish this within twenty-four hours. Carbolic acid in 1 to 20 solution has failed to kill these spores in thirty-five days ; hydrochloric acid requires ten days, and ether thirty days, to destroy them. The power of all these substances is greatly increased by heat, the bichloride of mercury, for instance, killing staphylococci in five minutes at the temperature of the body, whereas it requires over five times as long at the ordinary room temperature. Grease, oil, mucus, and even blood, will cover germs with a coating which prevents chemical germicides from reach- ing them. Another source of error in the direct application of these ex- periments to practical surgery is the fact that many of these chemicals are decomposed or rendered inert by combinations with the albuminoids of