660 LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. Primary and second- ary lateral curvatures. (Agnew.) Position of ribs and vertebrae in lateral curvature. (Agnew.) the lumbar region, and directed to the left side, the compensating curve will be in the dorsal region, and will be in the opposite direction, or to the right side, and a third compensating curve will be observed in the cervical region (Fig. 593), with its convexity in the same direction as Fig. 593. the original lumbar curve. These compensating curves arise from the necessitv of Fig. 594. . , . . J . maintaining the erect posi- tion. The intervertebral carti- lages in the region of the curves are compressed and become wedge-shaped, with their bases towards the con- vexity of the curve. The ribs in dorsal curves are crowded together upon the concave side, and upon the convex side are widely separated (Fig. 594), the scapula is carried forward with them, making a hump, and the tho- rax is much distorted. Lat- eral curvature begins most frequently in the dorsal region, and commonly involves the right side. Causes.—A great variety of causes may lead to lateral curvature of the spine. Among the predisposing causes may be mentioned congenital asym- metry, general weakness, rapid growth, and rickets, which affects the struc- ture of the bones, diminishing the resisting power necessary to withstand the effects of pressure and of muscular action. The principal exciting causes are habitual one-sided positions of the body, resultiug from an improper method of carrying children, and later in subjects between twelve and twenty years from sitting at desks in school for hours with the body inclined to one side, or from carrying heavy weights upon one side of the body. Obliquity of the pelvis from one limb being shorter than the other may cause lateral curvature. Unilateral muscular atrophy resulting from changes in the cen- tral nervous system or from undue exercise of the muscles of the opposite side, or unilateral muscular hypertrophy from overuse of the muscles of one side, or spasm of the muscles from disease of the central nervous system, draws the spinal column to the side of strongest muscular contraction. Em- pyema may cause lateral curvature by the contraction of the walls of the thorax, and sacro iliac disease, as well as morbid growths of the trunk and pelvis, may also give rise to lateral distortion of the spinal column. It should not be forgotten that in rare cases tuberculosis of the lateral portions of the bodies of the vertebrae causes lateral curvature of the spine. Symptoms.—In the early stages of this affection the symptoms may not be marked: the patient may notice, if a boy, that the suspenders have a tendency to slip off one shoulder, and, if a girl, the dressmaker may notice that it is difficult to fit the dress upon one side. The patient in stooping