711 CONTUSION OF THE BRAIN. known case in which a crowbar was driven endwise entirely through the head and the patient recovered with but slight loss of his faculties. Contusion of the brain has already been described in speaking of con- cussion (page 706), and in slight cases these conditions cannot be distin- guished, but severe contusions may destroy large portions of the brain, re- sulting in paralysis or loss of mental power. Cheyne-Stokes respiration is a common symptom of contusion, and is occasionally associated with albu- minuria or glycosuria from injury to the fourth ventricle If hemorrhage occurs it is apt to cause signs of compression, which are absent in simple contusion ; but contusion without hemorrhage is cpiite rare. When an ex- ternal wound is present the contused tissues often suppurate, but otherwise the danger of abscess from this source is very slight. Broncho-pneuniouia and other lung complications are frequent. The symptoms of laceration of the brain in the slighter grades also resemble those of concussion. The severer forms produce the same effects as extensive wounds, and are usually fatal on account of the hemorrhage. Prognosis.—The dangers of injury to the brain by incision, contusion, or laceration are various. (1) The part affected is important, for motor paralysis, for instance, results from an injury to the motor centres, while an injury to the frontal lobe seems to be of comparatively little significance, although when very extensive it results in loss of mental power. (2) Hemor- rhage may be fatal from compression as well as from loss of blood. (See next section.) (3) Infection may take place in any wound that is exposed, this danger being naturally greatest when the brain-tissue has been badly injured by contusion or laceration. (4) (Edema, apparently due to a trau- matic vascular paralysis extending throughout the brain, may occur and cause fatal compression. (5) Finally, there is the danger of fungus cerebri, which was formerly considered to be a protrusion of brain-matter through an open wound, but later researches have shown that the protruding mass is not a portion of the brain, but is mainly loose granulation-tissue, and that the exuberant granulations are due to infection. In a granulating wound, or in a wound that has not yet begun to granulate, in which the brain is exposed, the tissues suddenly begin to grow out through the skull, spread- ing over the edges, and forming a tumor with a pale, somewhat sloughing surface, which bleeds readily. There are no brain symptoms unless men- ingitis or encephalitis be present. Treatment.—In general it must be emphasized that every penetrating wound of the brain should be thoroughly examined by cutting away the edges of the opening in the skull, in order to remove foreign bodies and blood-clots and afford free drainage, and to ascertain the exact extent of the injury and the condition of the parts, which are then to be treated as de- scribed elsewhere. The hemorrhage from wounds of the brain is often con- siderable, and is difficult to control, because the vessels have such delicate walls and lie in such friable tissue that it is impossible to apply ligatures. It can be arrested by passing ligatures around the vessel, introducing them with curved needles, or by packing the wound with sterile gauze. The wound should be thoroughly covered and a tight bandage applied, otherwise hernia cerebri may develop. The treatment of hernia cerebri consists in cutting