FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 693 formed of certain pillars or buttresses of thick bone, with thinner parts be- tween, the pillars following the vertical or meridian lines from the base to the vertex, and he advanced the theory that fissures are apt to run in the thiu bone between these pillars. But experience does not uphold this theory. Before Felizet, Aran had claimed that the fissures ran in definite and limited directions; thus, blows upon the anterior or posterior parts of the vertex would produce fissures running down to the corresponding portions of the base, and blows on the side of the head would involve the base on the same side. More recent investigators, however, find that only about one-third of the fractures appear to be governed by this assumed law of Aran. It is regarded as settled at present that the fissures take the direction of the force which produces them. If the skull is compressed in a vise and we consider the points of pressure to represent the poles of a globe, and that part of the skull half-way between them as its equator, we shall find that the skull is flattened by the pressure, the two poles being brought nearer to- gether, while all the diameters running through the equator are lengthened, and its circumference is also increased at that point. Imaginary lines drawn through the poles on the surface of the skull perpendicular to the equator, like the meridians of a globe, would therefore tend to separate at the equator, and when fissures appear as the result of increasing pressure they would follow these meridian lines. The effect is the same whether the skull is compressed laterally, vertically, or from before backward, without reference to its shape, to its sutures, or to differences in the thickness of the bone. Not only is this true of forcible compression in a vise, but the same law holds of a blow received upon one side of the head, the inertia sufficing to make counter-pressure, and the fissures run in straight radiating lines from the pole where the blow is struck towards the opposite pole. These are known as the bursting lines of the skull. If the pressure applied by the vise in the experiment described above be very severe, and the skull very elastic, sometimes equatorial fissures will appear, either with or without the others. This equatorial fracture, when seen clinically, is produced, as a rule, by heavy bodies moving with a low velocity. The momentum with which the blow is struck determines the occurrence of the fracture, and a light body propelled at a high velocity is capable of doing as much damage as a heavy body moving slowly. The character of the injury, however, varies with the velocity and the weight of the body. A small body moving with great velocity has a tendency to perforate the skull, whereas a large body with a low velocity does less damage at the point of impact, but is likely to produce more diffuse injury in other parts of the skull. The shape and character of that part of the striking body which comes in contact with the bone must be taken into consideration, for a pointed or sharp-edged body will tend to perforate the skull, while a blunt surface will be likely to produce fissures only. The skull possesses great elasticity, as is proved by the change in its shape under strong pressure in a vise, as just described, by which the longitudinal diameter may be shortened as much as fifteen millimetres, the transverse diameters being lengthened at the same time without fracture, the skull re- turning to its original shape when the pressure is removed. A skull filled