DIAGNOSIS OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 963 Acute intussusception occurs in children under ten years of age in one-half of the cases, and the majority of these cases occur in children under three. There is often a history of colic or of purgatives having been given. Vomiting is usually present, becoming fecal early. Constipation has been present, or diarrhoea, but they have given place to small frequent passages of mucus and blood with tenesmus. Tympanites is rare at first. The in- tussusception can be felt in the abdomen as a sausage-like mass, which is more or less fixed when situated in the large intestine, but is movable when in the small. The tumor will generally be felt in the iliac regions or on the right side higher up. Its apex can frequently be reached by the finger in the rectum, and occasionally it protrudes from the anus. In cases of obstruction by a true foreign body, the history will give a clue to the cause. In gall-stone impaction there will be an account of frequent attacks of gall-stone colic (although in rare cases this may be absent ), and of an attack of local peritonitis, marking the time at which the gall-stones entered the intestine. In some instances the gall-stone will be large enough to be felt through the abdominal wall. The symptoms ai'e of the subacute type, and fecal vomiting occurs late. Gas is frequently passed per anum, and sometimes the symptoms are intermittent. Chronic Obstruction.—Fecal impaction is the most common cause of chronic obstruction in women, especially when hysteria or insanity is present. Constipation and stomach disturbance have often preceded the attack, and the symptoms develop gradually, although they may finally become as intense as in the acute varieties. The distended bowel may be felt distinctly, being doughy, dull on percussion, and not tender, and the mass takes the impression of the fingers when pressed firmly upon it. Adhesions and stricture present chronic symptoms, which develop slowly, but progress steadily to complete obstruction, with fecal vomiting. In these cases the abdominal distention is apt to be extreme and fecal vomit- ing is a late symptom. Cicatricial stricture is usually preceded by some intestinal inflamma- tion, such as syphilitic ulcers or dysentery. In stricture due to a malignant tumor there is slowly increasing constipation, occurring in a patient over middle age, with gradually increasing attacks of obstruction lasting a few days at a time, with vomiting and pain. There may be alternating diar- rhoea and constipation. There is gradual loss of flesh and strength, and the skin acquires a dull yellowish color. A tumor may be detected in the malig- nant cases, and it is generally small and rather uneven on its surface, and occasionally tender. Blood and pus may be found in the movements. The stricture is often so low down as to be reached by the finger in the rectum. Chronic intussusception usually has an acute beginning, and a tumor of considerable size is generally felt in the rectum, in the neighborhood of the transverse colon, or occasionally in the sigmoid flexure. Prognosis.—The outcome of intestinal obstruction depends chiefly upon the existence of strangulation. When there is no strangulation the result varies in the different conditions causiug the obstruction, as already de- scribed, but the prognosis is in most cases better than when strangulation is present, spontaneous recovery being almost unknown in the latter condition.