SCABIES. 309 Tinea trichophytina, or ringworm, is due to the trichophyton, and is more contagious than the last-mentioned. It usually presents sharply limited, slightly elevated, congested patches, which scale superficially. The patch spreads at the edges, healing in the centre. "When first seen it is half an inch or more in diameter, and there may be several patches. The spots tend to become stationary after a time, although large circinate patches may be formed by coalescence. It is marked by itching, and is common in chil- dren. In adults it is seen most often on the inner side of the thigh—the so-called eczema marginatum. When it occurs on the scalp or beard the hair becomes brittle and breaks off near the skin, and occasionally pustules form. The hair returns after the disease is eradicated. In the beard it is known as tinea sycosis, or barber's itch. There is also a so-called non- parasitic sycosis characterized by the formation of pustules in the hair- follicles, and caused by infection with pyogenic germs, with which the form due to tinea must not be confounded. Treatment.—The treatment of ringworm consists in the application of parasiticides, such as hyposulphite of sodium, iodine, balsam of Peru, nitrate of silver (strong solution), carbolic acid, or corrosive sublimate, one to four grains to the ounce. It is most obstinate upon the scalp, where epilation may be required, and relapses are frequent in all situations. Tinea favosa, or favus, caused by the achorion Schwileinii, is quite rare in this country. It is recognized by its cup-shaped crusts, each pene- trated by a hair, yellow in color, brittle, with a mouse-like odor, accompa- nied by invasion of the hair-follicle and falling of the hair. Permanent alopecia results. The disease is most common on the scalp, but occurs else- where, and may attack the nails. It is very contagious, and is more common in children than in adults. A cure is difficult to obtain. The crusts must be removed, the hair removed by epilation, and corrosive sublimate or oleate of mercury applied. Animal Parasites.—When lice are present (phtheiriasis) in small numbers their presence may be betrayed only by the itching, the scratch- marks, and the "nits" or eggs in the hair. Lice are frequently the cause of enlargement of the lymphatic glands of the neck. The body-lice (pedic- uli corporis and pediculi pubis, or crab-lice) are a different species from those of the head, the latter being smaller. Treatment.—Lice may be removed from the head by thorough washing with kerosene or tincture of cocculus indicus. Those of the body live in the clothing, although they may take refuge in the hair of the pubes and the axilla?, and a change of clothing (to be sterilized by steam or by baking in an oven) will dispose of most of them. The remainder can be removed by bathing and by apply- ing oleate of mercury or tincture of cocculus indicus to the hair of the pubes and axillae, care being taken not to mercurialize the patient if the former application is used. Scabies (the itch) also betrays its presence by scratch-marks. The par- asite usually first appears between the fingers or on the prepuce, and close examination will generally show the presence of a dark red spot about the size of the eye of a needle by which the insect has entered the skin, and the faint gray or black line on the epidermis leading from that point show-