COMPRESSION IN ANEURISM. 301 the aneurism, direct compression of the sac, and the combination of the two, as in flexion and Eeid's method. In cases forbidding systematic com- pression or operation the limb may be simply bandaged and elevated, the patient being, of course, kept at rest. This, while it may give relief, will effect a cure only in aneurisms of small vessels, like the anterior tibial. Proximal compression of the artery at a distance from the seat of the disease is a favorite method, and is generally preferred, where it is practicable, to any other form of treatment. It avoids the necessity for operation, involves no danger of secondary hemorrhage, which, however, is a complication much less feared than formerly, and produces a fair proportion of cures. It is tedious, often painful, and when practised as digital compression demands a number of skilled assistants. It is contra-indicated in rapidly growing aneurisms, aneurisms threatening to burst, diffused aneurisms, and those in which venous obstruction is present. In patients of a nervous and refrac- tory disposition it is unadvisable. It is most useful in aneurisms of the popliteal and brachial arteries. Compression is either digital or instru- mental. The former and better method is largely practised in college hos- pitals, where a number of intelligent assistants can be obtained. In certain arteries, as in the abdominal aorta and the external iliac, instrumental compression alone is practicable. Digital compression is practised by first carefully shaving the skin at the selected point, and, while keeping the skin carefully dusted with boric powder or French chalk, pressing the artery firmly against the bone until pulsation in the aneurism is arrested. One assistant compresses the vessel, preferably with the thumb, being relieved at intervals of fifteen minutes, while another keeps constant watch on the aneurism to warn the compressor of any return of pulsation. The pressure must be continuous for from forty-eight to seventy-two hours. Complete occlusion of the vessel is not necessary, the object being to check pulsation and allow a small amount of blood to pass through the sac, which results in the deposit of a laminated clot and final occlusion of the vessel and in the slow development of the collateral circulation. Complete obliteration of the vessel at the seat of aneurism is held by some authors to be necessary to a cure ; but, while this is the object aimed at by most methods, in others, as Wardrop's, a cure may be obtained while a channel for the blood still per- sists. Instrumental compression may be practised in two ways—either as slow compression, a substitute for the digital method, applied in the same manner and according to the same principles, or as rapid compression, as originally suggested by Murray. Slow compression is inferior to digital compression, owing to the difficulty of keeping any instrument accurately adjusted upon the artery. We may employ Lister's or Skey's tourniquets, Carte's com- pressor, or in the lower extremity Hopkins's modification of Charriere's instrument, which possesses numerous pads, by means of which the seat of compression can be shifted. Opium and the other measures recommended under medical treatment may be used during the compression treatment as indicated. If after two or three days there is no evidence of cessation of pulsation, or if venous congestion shows that there is pressure by the sac or the instruments on the veins, or if there is much pain or restlessness on the part of the patient, this treatment should be discontinued. A compress