1049 COMPLICATIONS OF THE CHANCROID. chancre. In untreated cases the advancing stage lasts for a week or two, being succeeded by a stationary period of the same duration, after which the process of healing begins, being marked by a change in the character of the secretion, which becomes more healthy, and by the disappear- ance of the pseudo-membrane and the springing up of granulations. The edges lose their punched-out appearance and become the starting-points for cicatrization. At any stage the ulcer may lapse into its former virulent condition. Complications.—Phagedena is the most serious complication of chan- croid, to which, however, it is not confined, being observed also in the course of chancre. It consists in a marked increase in the tissue-destroying properties of the ulcer. It is predisposed to by factors lessening the resist- ance of the tissues, as unsanitary surroundings with a lowered condition of strength, due to alcoholic excesses, scurvy, diabetes, etc., and often in conjunction with local irritation and uncleanliness. Phagedena is of two kinds—gangrenous, or sloughing, and serpiginous. In the first variety the ulcer becomes the seat of a gangrenous process, indi- cated by swelling, pain, a scanty sanious discharge, a dusky color of the parts, and the rapid formation of a slough, involving the entire chancroidal surface and perhaps destroying the entire prepuce or glans. In the ser- piginous variety the ulcer extends rapidly or slowly, destroying the tissues in its course, perhaps denuding the penis and exposing the testes in its ravages. There is marked constitutional involvement. In the chronic ser- piginous variety, which most frequently has its origin in a chancroidal bubo, the process lasts for months or even years, the ulcer healing at parts as the ulceration advances over the abdomen or down the thigh. It may cause death by exhaustion, or by peritonitis from perforation of the abdominal wall. Inflammatory phimosis is a frequent complication of chancroids situ- ated beneath the prepuce, which, by retention of the discharge and inter- ference with dressing, favors phagedena and bubo. The concealment of the lesion renders diagnosis difficult, especially from chancre and gonorrhoea. The history of the case, the acuteness of the inflammation, and the character of the discharge are points of most importance in the diagnosis. Paraphimosis may be the result of the same inflammatory condition of the prepuce. Lymphangitis appears as hard, red, knotty cords under the skin of the penis, painful, and sometimes associated with redness and oedema of the whole organ. Abscess may develop, followed by a secondary chancroid, which develops at its site. Bubo.—This is the most common complication of chancroid, its fre- quency being variously estimated at from ten to thirty per cent. It is more frequently encountered in hospital than in private practice. It may develop at any stage of the disease, and has been known to appear after healing of the sore had taken place. It is favored by improper treatment, irritation, and neglect of cleanliness. It commonly appears in the groin on the side corresponding to the ulcer, the process being carried to the inguinal glands by the lymplmtics of that side, but if the sore is at the frenum, where the lymphatics cross, it may occur on both sides. Chancroids