Prolapsus uteri. (Munde.) Extreme prolapsus uteri. (Case of Dr. R. Abbe.) 1188 treatment of displacements of the uterus. skin, and it is often ulcerated. The principal complaint of the patient even in these severe cases may be the disturbance of function of the bladder, which is rolled out with the anterior vaginal wall so as to form a pouch and render it liable to cystitis. As the uterus descends it follows the curve of the pelvis and is somewhat retro verted. (Fig. 908.) A careful examination is needed to distinguish between these cases and simple retroversion, espe- cially as the mere turning back of the fundus in retroversion carries the cervix forward and nearer the introitus, so that it is easier to reach it with the finger, and it seems to have prolapsed. In the slighter grades of descent it may be necessary to examine the patient in the standing position in order to appreciate the amount of prolapse. The cervix is often elongated to twice its natural length in cases of prolapse, and a careful measurement should be made by inserting the sound up to the fundus, in order to ascer- tain how much of the apparent displacement is due to a real descent of the entire organ and how much to the elongation of the cervix. Symptoms.—The general symptoms produced by displacements of the uterus are pain in the back, caused by the dragging on the various ligaments or merely by the congestion of the organ, and pains are occasionally felt running down the legs, owing to pressure on the sacral plexus. Constipa- tion and vesical irritation may be caused if the uterus presses upon the rectum or bladder. Menstruation may be very painful, the exit of the flow being obstructed by the malposition of the uterus. Mechanical dysmenor- rhea is more frequent in flexion than in version, but the congestion of the uterus in extreme version results in menstrual disturbances, such as too fre- quent menstruation, too prolonged and too abundant flow, and an increase in the various general symptoms of menstruation. Endometritis is usually present, and adds its symptoms to those mentioned. Many of the symp- toms of displacement are really due to the inflammation or the adhesions which accompany or cause the malposition, and may sometimes be relieved by treatment directed to these conditions even without correction of the displacement. Treatment.—Replacement.—The malposition of the uterus may be reducible by pressure with the finger in the vagina or rectum, drawing Fig. 907.