RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS. 604 is usually associated with this condition, iron in some form should be ad- ministered, the iodide being especially useful. Rheumatic Arthritis.—This form of arthritis may be acute or chronic. Acute rheumatic arthritis usually attacks a number of joints at the same time, and is characterized by the same symptoms as acute synovitis,—pain, tenderness on pressure or motion, heat, swelling, elevation of temperature, and increase in the pulse-rate. This form of arthritis is a local manifestation of a general disease, which usually ends in resolution without producing any marked structural change in the joints involved or any loss of function, and is more likely to come under the care of the physician than of the surgeon. Monarticular rheumatism is most likely to be confounded with acute arthritis. Chronic Rheumatic Arthritis.—This affection may result from re- peated attacks of acute rheumatism, or may occur in persons who are con- stantly exposed to cold, dampness, or privation. There are marked altera- tions in the joint structures, the synovial membranes and the periarticular structures becoming thickened, and the secretion of synovial fluid is dimin- ished ; the cartilages are occasionally eroded, and the joint becomes stiff and painful. Upon motion of the joint crackling or crepitation may be elicited. In some cases plastic exudation binds together the articular and periarticular structures, so that restriction of motion or ankylosis results. Wasting of the muscles is very common. Treatment.—The treatment in this affection is directed to promoting the absorption of the exudations and adhesions, and then as far as possible restoring the function of the affected joints. The patient should wear woollen clothing, and avoid exposure to cold and dampness. The adminis- tration of salicylates, iodide of potassium, and the salts of lithium should be resorted to, and iron, arsenic, and strychnine may be employed with ad- vantage. Massage and electricity are of service, and ankylosis may be over- come by motions of the joint under an anaesthetic. When there is marked contraction of the joints, tenotomy may be required to correct the deformity. Gouty Arthritis.—This form of arthritis occurs in patients of a gouty diathesis, and attacks especially the smaller articulations, such as those of the fingers and toes and the metacarpal and metatarsal joints. There is a deposition of urate of sodium in the connective tissue of the joint and the periarticular tissues, which results in destruction of the cartilages, alter- ation in the shape of the joint, and impairment of motion. The irritant action of the urate of sodium results in overgrowth of the connective tissue and the production of fibrous tissue, which contracts and causes deformity of the joint. From the accumulation of urate of sodium in the joints chalk-stones form, which may cause ulceration of the skin over them. In gouty subjects acute exacerbations occur, and the affection usually involves one or more joints, which become hot, swollen, and painful, the metatarso- phalangeal joint of the great toe being the one most commonly involved. Gouty arthritis is simply the local manifestation of a general disease which comes under the province of the physician, but the occurrence of contraction and deformities of the joints may require surgical treatment. Osteo-Arthritis (Arthritis Deformans).—This is a disease of later life, and is rarely seen in subjects under fifty years of age, although it occa-