COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF THE ANKLE. 595 and the outer portion of the foot, and a second between the internal splint and the leg just above the internal malleolus, the splints being held in posi- tion by the turns of a roller bandage. A fracture-box with compresses may also be employed. In a few days, after the swelling has subsided, the foot and leg should be dressed with a plaster of Paris dressing, the foot being held in an inverted position until the plaster has become firm. Inward Dislocation of the Foot.—This dislocation is much less common than outward dislocation, and may result from falls sustained upon the outer border of the foot, causing forcible adduction or inversion of the foot. Symptoms.—The foot is very much inverted, and the external mal leolus is prominent and may be felt beneath the skin. (Fig. 536.) Treat- ment.—Reduction is accomplished by making extension upon the foot and counter-extension upon the leg, and by manipulation, bringing the foot into its normal position. The after-treatment consists in fixing the foot in a slightly everted position by the use of binders' board splints or the plaster of Paris bandage. Compound Dislocation of the Ankle.—Compound dislocations of the ankle are the most frequent compound dislocations met with, and the results following this injury were formerly so unsatisfactory, as regarded the loss of life from septic infection and the loss of function in the limb, that the majority of cases were subjected to primary amputation. At present more conservative methods of treatment are adopted, with most gratifying results. In compound dislocations of the ankle- joint the foot is usually everted, and the articular surface of the tibia is driven through a wound in the soft parts (Fig. 537), or occasionally the com- pound dislocation may consist in an inward dis- placement of the foot, with protrusion of the astragalus through a wound at the outer aspect of the ankle, and fracture of the external malleo- lus. Compound dislocations of the ankle-joint, particularly those in which the tibia or the as- tragalus escapes from a wound at the inner aspect of the joint, are often associated with a rupture of the posterior tibial artery or nerve. Treatment.—In the treatment of this in- compound dislocation of the ankie- jury the greatest care should be exercised to render the wound and the surrounding parts aseptic. The skin should be sterilized and the wound irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution. If the posterior tibial artery has been injured, it should be secured by liga- tures, loose fragments of bone being removed, and free drainage secured by passing a large drainage-tube through the wound and bringing it out through a counter-opening upon the opposite side of the joint. Having re- duced the displacement, the foot should be brought into position—that is, at a right angle to the leg. In some cases where the lower end of the tibia projects from the wound, it is often difficult to reduce the dislocation. Here resection of the tibia or excision of the astragalus renders the reduction easy, and the ultimate result as regards function is good. If the case is compli-