SYPHILITIC DACTYLITIS. 541 ostitis, being frequently observed. The lesions are most common in the long bones, and are apt to be symmetrical, and accompanied by other evi- dence of hereditary syphilis, such as keratitis, de- pression of the nasal bones, and changes in the teeth. The bone lesions are apt to be manifested between the sixth and the eighteenth year, and the tibia and ulna seem to be the bones most fre- quently affected. (Fig. 463.) The disease may be confounded with rachitis or tuberculosis, but the nature of the disease can usually be clearly demon- strated by the presence of other evidence of hered- itary syphilis. Syphilitic Dactylitis.—This affection is common in hereditary syphilis, and consists in an osteoperiostitis of the phalanges of the fingers, which sometimes originates in the fibrous tissues over the bones. Swelling is first observed over one or more phalanges, which gradually increases in size, and spontaneous opening is apt to occur, followed by caries or necrosis and the loss of one or more phalanges. The disease is often symmetrical. (Fig. 464.) Treatment.—In cases of hereditary syphilis of the bones, iodide of po- tassium in doses appropriate for the age of the patient should be employed ; young children do not bear iodide of potassium as well as adults ; it often produces irritation and inflammation of the nasal and laryngeal mucous membranes, so that its effect should be carefully watched. Small doses of iodide or bichloride of mercury are often more efficient than iodide of potas- Syphilitic osteoperiostitis of the ulnae. Fig. 464. Syphilitic dactylitis. sium. Where nodes are present and in cases of early dactylitis the local use of equal parts of mercurial and belladonna ointments will often be found of service. Clinically we have found the use of iodide of iron and cod-liver oil of great value, particularly in those cases in which iodide of potassium cannot be taken. The progress of the disease may often be arrested by antisyphilitic treatment, but more or less thickening and deformity of the bones remain permanently. Hypertrophy of Bone.—True hypertrophy of bone unassociated with osteosclerosis is rarely met with, but occasionally cases of congenital hyper- trophy of a whole limb have been observed, in which the bones of the part