1070 TREATMENT OF HYPOSPADIAS. side are raised and secured across the instrument by sutures or hare-lip pins. The penile portion of the urethra is formed by cutting two rectangular flaps (Fig. 828, A), the base of one being parallel to the urethral groove and three-eighths or half an inch distant from it, and the base of the other being at the urethral groove. Both flaps are dissected up, and the one with its base at the urethral furrow is turned over the latter, and its free edge united to the raw edge at the other side of the groove, where the free side of the second flap has been formed. (Fig. 828, B.) In this manner a canal is obtained which is lined throughout with epithelium, partly skin and partly mucous membrane. The flap with its base away from the furrow is then drawn over the first one, so as to cover its raw sur- face partially or wholly, and se- cured in place by sutures. (Fig. 828, C.) The first flap may be secured by two or three mattress- sutures through the base of the second flap ; or it may be sutured with stitches which do not pene- trate the epithelial coating of the canal, in order that they shall not be exposed to infection. Fine cat- gut or very fine silk may be em- ployed. The scrotal and perineal portions of the urethra may be formed in a similar manner, but in the complete cases the work at the anterior end of the organ should be finished first, so as to allow the urine to pass by the posterior open- ing without coming in contact with the wound during its healing. When the glandular and penile portions have been formed, the opening which exists between them should be sutured, and finally the perineal opening may be closed and the urine diverted into the new chan- nel. These small openings may be closed by freshening their edges obliquely, cutting away the surface, so that the opening into the canal is left smaller than that on the skin, and then passing sutures of fine silk, which should not enter the canal. When the opening is of considerable size, two flaps may be cut on the same principles as already described, one being turned over the opening with its epithelial surface towards the canal, and the second being sutured across the raw surface of the first to reinforce it. The after-treatment of these cases may be conducted in three different Operation for hypospadias: d, urethral defect; flaps ; w, raw surface left by turning up the flap I'. A shows the flaps cut; B, I' sutured in position; C, the operation completed, I" covering V. (Lauenstein.)