816 INTERSTITIAL KERATITIS. Neuroparalytic keratitis, or that variety of ulceration of the cornea which arises when this membrane has become isolated from the influence of the trigeminus, and which depends partly upon a dystrophic change and partly upon the lessened power of the insensitive cornea to resist external injuries, is particularly interesting to surgeons, since removal of the Gasserian ganglion has become a common operative procedure. Treatment.—This should consist of exclusion of the eye from external irritants. It may be accomplished by stitching the lids together, or, better still, by placing over the eye a Buller's shield, precisely as this is used in connection with gonorrhoeal cases. (Fig. 705.) In several cases treated by the author with Dr. W. W. Keen, not only has ulceration disappeared under this treatment, but it has been prevented, and he would recommend in all cases of removal of the Gasserian ganglion that at the expiration of the operation the eye upon the affected side should be immediately covered with a watch-crystal, carefully held in place with strips of plaster or gauze and collodion. The shield shovdd not be removed for at least a week after the operation. Interstitial Keratitis (Syphilitic or Parenchymatous Keratitis).— This disease is a diffuse keratitis, characterized by an infiltration of the true layers of the cornea, which gradually passes, without ulceration, but asso- ciated with superficial or deep vascularization ("the salmon patch of Hutchinson"), into a condition of opacity somewhat resembling grouud glass. Fully sixty per cent, of the cases depend upon inherited syphilis ; in a few instances the disease follows acquired syphilis. Other cases arise under the influence of rheumatism, struma, rickets, and probably malaria and depressed nutrition. The disease is not common in adults, being most fre- quent between the ages of five and fifteen. Usually both eyes are affected, although the interval between the two attacks may vary from a few weeks to several months. It is said to have been delayed five or six years. The disease lasts for many months, and, indeed, it is improbable that perfect clearing of the cornea ever occurs, although under proper treatment apparently hopeless cases may regain good vision. Years afterwards in- spection of the cornea will reveal the minute channels once occupied by the new-formed blood-vessels. The disease may be associated with iritis, retinitis, and choroiditis, and sometimes gives rise to secondary glaucoma. Its subjects often manifest other signs of inherited syphilis, particularly periosteal nodes, fissures at the angles of the mouth and around the nares, and not infrequently deformed central incisors, which have vertically notched edges—the so-called Hutchinson's teeth. Treatment.—This consists in the local application of atropine to avert iritis, and the constitutional treatment of syphilis, particularly inunctions of mercury. Every measure to improve the general health should be em- ployed, and iron, arsenic, and cod-liver oil are constantly indicated. All irritant applications are contra-indicated. Goggles should be worn to pro- tect the eyes from too strong light. If symptoms of glaucoma arise, iridec- tomy may be necessary, or, at least, paracentesis of the cornea. Severe pain may be allayed by hot applications, and, if the child is sufficiently robust, leeching the temple is a useful procedure.