SHOCK. 135 exhaustion after operations during extremely hot weather. It is possible also that atmospheric conditions, such as dryness, humidity, and electrical disturbances, have some effect upon the results of operations. SHOCK. Shock, or collapse, is a condition of physical depression or prostration which generally occurs after severe injuries or operations, and should not be confounded with syncope, which is a condition essentially due to anaemia of the brain, and may result from mental perturbation, from pain, from actual loss of blood, or from the derivation of blood from one part of the body to another, as occurs in the syncope following the too rapid removal of a large quantity of fluid from the abdominal cavity. The condition which supervenes upon serious injuries of the head and spine is often confounded with shock ; the two conditions may coexist, and it is often difficult to dif- ferentiate them in such cases. That shock may be developed independently of mental emotions is evidenced by the fact that it often manifests itself during complete anaesthesia. Shock may develop immediately upon or some time after the reception of the injury. The rapidity of its development is best shown in cases where vigorous subjects meet with serious accidents, such as crushes of the limbs or body, in whom there develop instantaneously pal- lor aud coldness of the skin, feeble respiration, and almost imperceptible pulse. During operations shock may be developed gradually, except when important structures are divided; its manifestation may then be very sudden. Pathology.—Various theories have been advanced to explain the pathology of the condition which we recognize as shock : it has been attrib- uted to paralysis of the vaso-motor centres, causing dilatation of the abdom- inal vessels, which become so distended that the amount of blood in other parts of the body is greatly diminished. This would imply that the symp- toms presented by excessive hemorrhage and by shock are similar, which is not the case, as we recognize a distinct difference between the symptoms of the two conditions. The view which is now most generally accepted is that shock is due to severe irritation of the peripheral ends of the sensory and sympathetic nerves, producing a state of exhaustion of the medulla and pneumogastric nerves, or a general functional paralysis of the nerve-centres, both spinal and cerebral, which causes arrest or enfeeblemeut of the cardiac action and disturbed respiratory action. Death from shock may be immediate and result from cardiac arrest. Post-mortem examination of these cases usually shows the right cavities of the heart and the great venous trunks distended with blood. Causes.—Every traumatism is probably followed by a certain amount of shock, but it may be so slightly developed as to escape observation, and, as a rule, the degree of shock is proportionate to the severity of the injury received. Yet this rule is not without exception ; certain classes of injuries are attended with marked shock, and the part of the body sustaining the in- jury will have an important influence upon the degree of the development of shock. Contusions of the viscera, wounds of the testicle, contused and