ASEPSIS AND ANTISEPSIS. 154 only when the tissues are overwhelmed by the number of organisms, or when their power of resistance is diminished by injury or disease. This is probably the explanation of the satisfactory behavior of wounds which pursue an aseptic course where very imperfect details of aseptic or antisep- tic treatment have been employed. It may, therefore, be assumed that infection does not necessarily depend upon the presence of a few microbes, but rather upon the quantity and quality of the germs which are present in the wound. For description of special micro-organisms, see Surgical Bacteriology. It is unquestionable that pyogenic microbes under different conditions can produce a series of different diseases, for it is now generally accepted that Fehleisen's streptococcus erysipelatis is identical with streptococcus pyo- genes, which is recognized as the cause of very different inflammatory affec- tions. The theory has been advanced by Eeger that all the so-called pus- diseases are simply local expressions of a general infection caused by many different micro-organisms. ISo surgeon should undertake the performance of an operation or the treatment of an open wound without having clearly impressed upon his mind the important part that pyogenic and specific microbes may play in the subsequent course of the wound. Sepsis.—Sepsis is due to the entrance and multiplication of microbes or the absorption of their products in the body, and is characterized by local inflammation of the wound, and marked constitutional symptoms, such as fever, disorders of the nervous system, and inflammation of the viscera. Microbic infection represents a pathological process which causes serious wound complications, and differs materially from that process which at- tends the repair of wounds that run an aseptic course. Aseptic chemical irritation of the tissues may result in the production of a puruloid fluid, which is not pus, but merely a fibrinous exudation containing numerous cells, and does not produce infection if injected into animals. Acute suppu- ration in a wound is considered clinically to be the invariable result of the presence of bacteria, for their exclusion will prevent its occurrence. Asepsis.—Asepsis aims at thorough sterilization of the parts and of all objects brought in contact with the wound, and the exclusion of germs by occlusive dressings. Antisepsis.—Antisepsis, on the other hand, is that method of wound treatment which keeps germicidal agents constantly in contact with the wound. The object of antisepsis is, therefore, to produce asepsis. Since the majority of wound complications are due to the presence in the wound of micro-organisms, it is the duty of the surgeon to prevent their contact with it, or to employ means for their destruction. We must, however, employ means of disinfection or destruction of these inicro-organ- isms which will not have any injurious effect upon the tissues with which they come in contact. Mechanical disinfection is not applicable to wounds, but is employed to remove any micro-organisms which may be present upon the objects which are to come in contact with the wound—namely, the hands of the surgeon and assistants, instruments, and the skin sur- rounding the wound. Mechanical disinfection is accomplished by the use