INJURIES OF THE TESTICLE. 1142 moved. To replace the organ in the scrotum, it is exposed by free incision and dissected out, the cord being drawn out as much as possible. The gland is then placed in a bed made for it in the scrotum, and secured by sutures passing through its capsule. In these cases the corresponding half of the scrotum is liable to be small and atrophic, but it is usually large enough to contain the small gland. When the testicle is situated at the internal ring or just within the inguinal canal, it can sometimes be pushed downward by the pressure of a truss properly applied. The pad should have a slight concavity on the end for the testicle, and should be worn day and night. These means of treatment are, however, very unsatisfactory in extreme cases, for the testicle is so small as to be of little value, and the necessary manipulation is apt to impair its vitality still further. If the patient's consent can be obtained and the other testicle is in good condition, it is wiser to sacrifice the ectopic gland at once. For the testicle retained in the abdomen nothing can be done, but it should be kept under obser- vation, in order that it may be removed promptly at the first sign of enlargement, on account of the tendency to malignant disease. Injuries.—Wounds of the testicle are very rare and scarcely need mention. Contusions, however, are exceedingly common, and are fol- lowed, as a rule, by extensive hematocele, which may result in complete disorganization of the gland and be followed by its complete atrophy. The injury to the gland will often be masked at first by hematocele of the scrotum or of the tunica vaginalis. Hematocele of the testicle may be the result of severe muscular effort, although the explanation of these cases is difficult. The most widely accepted theory is that the intense contraction of the cremaster muscles during violent muscular exertion compresses the testicle so strongly against the pubic arch or the inguinal ring as to rupture a blood-vessel in the gland. It is probable, however, that in many cases some sudden and severe pressure of the clothing occasions the injury. The symptoms of a severe contusion of the testicle are a feeling of faintness, caused by the pressure, like the well-known testicular sensation, followed by intense pain in the testicle or a dull, heavy ache, which may become throb- bing and be accompanied by considerable lumbar pain. The injury is marked by very severe shock, which has sometimes caused death. Treatment.—The treatment of these cases consists of rest in bed, the scrotum being supported on a platform made of a bandage or a towel stretched across the thighs, and the application of an ice-bag. In the later stages careful massage and the application of an elastic bandage will hasten the absorption of the effusion, and a suspensory should be worn afterwards until the testicle has reached its normal size. The preservation of the func- tion of the organ is best assured by complete rest during the early stages, so that the blood-clot may be absorbed as rapidly as possible. Torsion.—A peculiar displacement of the testicle, known as torsion, consisting of rotation, with twisting of the cord, sometimes occurs. It is rendered possible by an abnormal arrangement of the tunica vaginalis, which forms a sort of mesentery to the testicle and cord in these cases and leaves the gland much freer in its movements within the cavity than is natural, and a sudden movement may rotate the testicle upon its long axis, twisting