758 SYPHILIS OF THE TONGUE. deep flabby ulcer with clean-cut edges and little surrounding induration. The ulcer at first may cause little discomfort, but after a time becomes very painful. The presence of tuberculous lesions in other parts of the body generally serves to differentiate this affection from gummatous and cancerous ulcerations. Treatment.—The use of the curette and cautery in tuberculous ulcers, with the application of iodoform in some cases, appears to arrest the progress of the ulceration, but is seldom followed by healing of the ulcer. In many cases no operative treatment is indicated ; here a nutritious and unirritating diet should be given, the ulcer dusted with iodoform, and mild antiseptic mouth-washes employed. As pain is usually a prominent symptom, this may be relieved by the local application of a two per cent, solution of cocaine or canipho-phehique; if the patient cannot be rendered comfortable by these applications, excision of a portion of the lingual nerve or nerves may be resorted to. SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF THE TONGUE. Primary syphilis or chancre of the tongue is occasionally seen. It usually starts as a small papiile, which breaks down and ulcerates and presents marked induration, and is accompanied by enlargement of the sub- maxillary glands. Owing to the rarity of its occurrence in this situation, its specific character is often overlooked. The true nature of the affection is, however, soon demonstrated by the appearance of the secondary lesions of syphilis. Treatment.—This ulcer heals rapidly, and the irritation dis- appears under the internal use of mercury ; at the same time an antiseptic mouth-wash should be employed. Secondary Syphilis of the Tongue.—This affection may manifest itself either in the form of mucous patches or plaques or in superficial ul- ceration. Mucous patches are observed in acquired or inherited syphilis, and consist of slightly elevated, isolated, grayish patches composed of thickened epithelium, which rests upon the inflamed and swollen papillae. They usually occupy the dorsum, tip, and lateral aspects of the tongue, but are occasionally seen upon its under surface, and generally coexist with similar patches upon the lips, cheeks, and palate. Superficial ulceration of the tongue is also common in secondary syphilis. The ulcers are multiple, present sharply cut edges and a grayish base, and are painful. The ulcera- tion usually is situated upon the tip and edges of the tongue, and coexists with similar lesions of the mucous membrane of the angles of the mouth, lips, cheeks, and palate. Treatment.—This consists in the administration of iodide of mercury, in doses of one-quarter to one-half grain, three or four times a day, and the use of a mouth-wash of 1 to 4000 corrosive siablimate solution, or a solution of carbolic acid and chlorate of potassium, or the patches or ulcers may be painted with a 1 to 200 solution of corrosive sub- limate. Under this treatment the lesions disappear rapidly. In cases, however, where the improvement is slow, the administration of iodide of potassium, from five to ten grains, combined with biniodide of mercury, one- twenty-fourth of a grain, will be followed by the most satisfactory results. Healing in these cases is often delayed by the irritation produced by the use of tobacco : so that it should be avoided.