BURSITIS. 420 cision. After making the incision, the part should be dressed with a warm, moist antiseptic gauze dressing, and the hand placed upon a splint. A free incision usually arrests the progress of the disease, but if so favorable a result does not follow, and the inflammation spreads up the finger and in- volves the palm of the hand, the same procedure may be required at higher points. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF BURS^E. Synovial bursae exist normally in connection with tendons or with certain joints, and may be developed by continued friction or pressure at certain parts of the body. Deep bursae are sometimes connected with the joints, or are in very close relation with them. Injuries of Bursse.—Wounds of bursae may be either contused, in- cised, lacerated, or punctured, and, if they become infected, may prove most serious injuries. Wounds of bursse should be thoroughly disinfected and drained, and usually heal with obliteration of the sac. Acute Bursitis.—This affection usually results from an injury or con- tinuous irritation of a bursa, and is characterized by 'tenderness, pain, red- ness of the skin, and swelling or distention of the bursa. If suppuration occurs, the inflammation is apt to extend to the surrounding cellular tissue, or, if in close proximity to a joint, may involve this. Bursitis can usually be diagnosed from other affections by the rapidity of development of the inflammatory symptoms, the location of the swelling in relation to certain tendons or joints, and its globular shape. Treatment.—This consists in elevating the part and putting it at rest on a splint, and in the application of cold or pressure. If, however, the pain and swelling due to effusion continue, and there is evidence of suppuration, the bursa should be freely opened and irrigated with a solution of carbolic acid or bichloride, and subsequently packed with sterilized or iodoform gauze. Under this treatment the cavity soon becomes obliterated as healing occurs. The bursae most commonly involved are the prepatellar and the olecranon bursa, and that over the metatarsal joint of the great toe. Chronic Bursitis.—This affection may result from acute bursitis which does not terminate in suppuration, or may develop slowly from long-con- tinued irritation or pressure, or from tubercular infection of the bursa (Fig. 318), and is accompanied by little pain. The most marked feature in chronic bursitis is the distention of the sac with fluid, and in some cases the walls of the sac become so much thickened that the bursa is converted into a solid tumor. Chronic bursitis of the prepatellar bursa is not infrequently met Tuberculous bursitis of the riffht kn<