391 LIGATION OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. border of the great sacro-sciatic notch ; it is accompanied by a large nerve and by veins, injury to either of which structures should be avoided in ex- posing the artery and passing the needle. Ligation of the Sciatic and the Internal Pudic Artery—These arteries are exposed by an incision three or four inches in length, a little lower than that employed for the exposure of the glu- teal artery. The skin, superficial fascia, deep fascia, and fibres of the gluteus maxi- mus having been divided, the vessels should be exposed as they leave the great sciatic notch at the lower edge of the pyriformis muscle. The internal pudic artery re- enters the pelvis through the lesser sciatic notch, lying on the inner side of the sciatic artery during its passage over the spine of the ischium. The vessel should be iso- lated, and the needle passed so as to avoid injury of the veins. Ligation of the Femoral Artery. —The femoral artery occupies the inner and anterior portion of the thigh ; it is crossed by the sartorius muscle, and is thus divided into two unequal portions. The portion above the sartorius muscle occu- pies Scarpa's triangle. After leaving Scarpa's triangle the artery enters an aponeurotic canal formed between the adductor magnus and vastus internus muscles (Hunter's canal), after which it perforates the adductor and enters the popliteal space. The femoral vein is at first to the inner side of the artery, then passes behind the artery, and near the apex of Scarpa's triangle is to its outer side. The anterior crural nerve is situated some distance to the outer side of the artery. In Hunter's canal the artery is covered by the long saphenous vein, and is in close relation to the internal saphenous nerve. The general course of the femoral artery in the thigh may be indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis to the tuberosity of the in- ternal condyle of the femur. The femoral artery may be tied just below Poupart's ligament, at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, or in Hunter's canal. Ligation of the Femoral Artery below Poupart's Ligament. —An incision should be made, beginning midway between the anterior supe- rior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, one-fourth of an inch above Poupart's ligament, and extending two inches downward. The skin and superficial fascia having been divided, the deep fascia is exposed and opened, when the sheath of the vessel is brought into view. The sheath being opened half an inch below Poupart's ligament, the femoral artery should be isolated from the femoral vein, which lies to the inner side. The anterior crural nerve lies to the outer side. The needle should be passed from within outward. Fig. 296. Relations of the gluteal, sciatic, and pudic arteries. (Agnevv.)