SUPRAPUBIC LITHOTOMY. 1108 finger should be inserted at once, before the contained fluid has escaped. Exploration then determines the presence of the stone and the condition of the bladder, and if the size of the stone requires a larger wound the open- ing is enlarged downward and forward with the scissors. If necessary, this incision may be carried down behind the pubes almost to the neck of the bladder. Forceps are introduced and the stone is withdrawn, and if there is any difficulty in removing it the incision should be enlarged with the scissors rather than lacerated by the stone itself. The interior of the bladder is thoroughly irrigated, and the operation finished by inserting a drainage-tube and packing the wound or by suturing the wound in the bladder. In the first case a drainage-tube half an inch in diameter, having lateral openings near its lower end, or a large rubber catheter, is placed so as to reach to the base of the bladder. The edges of the bladder wound are held together around the tube by the silk threads passed previously, and iodoform gauze is packed into the connective tissue between the bladder and the pubes in front and the abdominal wall on both sides. A dressing is applied around the tube, which is connected with a siphon-tube at the side of the bed. A more powerful suction apparatus can be formed by hanging an irrigator above the bed and connecting it with an S-tube or simply with a rubber tube tied in a loop so as to form a sort of trap, from which the tube passes to the T-tube, one end of which is connected with the catheter, and so descends to the vessel beneath the bed. The constant flow of fluid from the irrigator through the S and T tubes makes a suction appa- ratus on the principle of the air-pump, and constantly draws fluid from the bladder. This method has, however, the disadvantage that the suction is usually so powerful that it draws the wall of the bladder into the eye of the catheter and causes pain and interruption to the flow of the urine. The ordinary siphon drainage is usually sufficient. Drainage of the bladder is the method of choice when that organ is extensively diseased or when there is considerable hemorrhage from its interior. When the bladder is comx>aratively healthy and there is no hemorrhage, the wound may be sutured, and in any case a large wound should be partially closed by sutures, leaving an opening only large enough for the drainage-tube. These sutures must be of fine silk or fine catgut, and should not penetrate the interior of the organ, as they might form the nucleus of a calculous deposit. The sutures are therefore passed in the Lembert fashion, bringing together the muscular layers of the bladder, but not penetrating the mucous membrane, and being placed about an eighth of an inch apart. A second tier of sutures is placed over these, drawing up the wall of the bladder in a fold and covering in the first tier completely. The tightness of these sutures may be tested by injecting water. After a thorough washing, a light packing is then placed in the external wound, unless it is very large, when it may be somewhat reduced by sutures ; but it is unwise to suture it entirely, because suppuration and urinary infiltration may take place if the sutures in the bladder should yield. Some surgeons leave a catheter in the urethra and drain off the urine during the healing of the wound, others have the urine drawn by catheter at regular intervals, and still others allow the patient to urinate naturally.