ANTHRAX. 51 This bacillus causes the disease known as malignant oedema in some of the lower animals, and has been found in some cases of a peculiar infectious gangrene in man, compelling us to separate these cases, some of which were undoubtedly included under the head of hospital gangrene by older writers, from the ordinary severe septic inflammations. This disease has been vari- ously described as gangrenous emphysema and traumatic or spreading gangrene. As the bacillus which causes it is anaerobic, the disease is found only in connection with injuries, such as compound fractures, which give an op- portunity for deep inoculations protected from the air. Symptoms.—After a severe lacerated and contused injury of this nature, a dusky bronze hue appears in the skin near the wound and rapidly extends, so that in a few hours it may involve the entire extremity. We have seen it begin from a lacerated wound in the popliteal space of a young man and involve the thigh and entire trunk in twenty-four hours. The color is due to deep hemorrhagic extravasations, and gradually changes into the darker and mottled discoloration characteristic of gangrene. The part becomes hard, brawny, and cedematous, and subcutaneous emphysematous crackling is felt, showing the presence of gas in the tissues, which some- times extends into apparently healthy parts. If the patient survives long enough, the usual necrotic changes of moist gangrene take place. Extreme prostration accompanies the disease, which is most often found in persons of depraved constitutions. Treatment.—Immediate high amputation presents the only hope for the patient. We have had a case terminate in recovery after amputation at the shoulder, the disease having attacked the arm. ANTHRAX. The disease properly known as anthrax was formerly called malignant pustule, malignant carbuncle, splenic fever, and wool-sorter's disease (Fr. Charbon; Ger. Milzbrand). It is caused by the bacillus anthracis (Davaine, Pasteur) (Plate II., Fig. 22), which is one of the largest of the specific pathogenic microbes, and was one of the earliest to be detected. It is a straight rod, from 5 to 10 or even 50 millimetres long and about 1 millimetre thick, without power of motion, and multiplying in living tissues only by segmentation, although it produces spores in dead culture media. The bacillus is killed by a temperature of 132° F. (56° C), but the spores are among the most resistant known. It is easily cultivated in the usual media, and liquefies gelatin, producing characteristic colonies. It is supposed by some to grow in soil or manure and thence make its way into the herbivora, and from their bodies, either living or dead, other animals and man may take the disease. Anthrax is much more common in the United States than was formerly supposed. Anthrax may be acquired by infection through the outer coverings of the body, or through the respira- tory or the digestive tract. In the latter cases lesions of the internal organs are prodticed by spores penetrating the mucous membranes, but these lesions are described in the works on practice of medicine. The intact epidermis is a complete protection against the germ, and it can enter only by inoculation of an open wound. Man is most likely to be infected by hides, by the hair