1091 CYSTITIS. When left for some time in the bladder they become encrusted with urinary salts and may form the nucleus of a calculus. Elongated objects usually assume a transverse position near the base. The recognition of the presence of foreign bodies is difficult. They may be demonstrated by the cystoseope, by seizing them with a lithotrite, or by exploratory cystotomy. Flexible bodies can sometimes be removed by a lithotrite, by seizing them in the centre and doubling them up as they enter the urethra. In the female they can often be removed by dilatation of the urethra, and if this fails a vaginal cystotomy should be done, as for stone. If the foreign body is rigid, a suprapubic cystotomy should be performed in the male. Inflammation. Cystitis.—Pathology.—Cystitis, or inflammation of the bladder, is always the result of infection with germs, and may be pyo- genic, gonorrhceal, or tubercular. The pyogenic form may be either catar- rhal or suppurative. It is invariably due to infection, which is usually carried from without by the introduction of instruments, and only excep- tionally through open wounds of the bladder or by direct extension from the kidney above or the urethra below. The infection may arise not only from the instrument itself but also from its forcing backward along the urethra some infectious discharge from that canal. The instruments are readily sterilized by the ordinary means, but it is less easy to disinfect the urethra thoroughly. Germs introduced into the healthy bladder have very little effect upon it, but if it is altered by traumatism or contains a foreign body, a stone, or blood, or even if there is retention and the urine is stag- nant, infection readily takes place. These conditions are the predisposing causes of cystitis, and, unfortunately, they are almost always present in those cases which demand the introduction of instruments into the bladder. The inflammation may be limited to the neck of the bladder or may extend over its entire internal surface. In the catarrhal forms the usual changes are seen in the mucous membrane—namely, hypersemia, increased mucous secretion, and desquamation of cells. When suppuration occurs the con- gestion increases, and ulceration may take place, either superficially or extending through the mucous membrane. Sometimes false membranes are formed, or, still more rarely, the lining membrane of the bladder may become detached in sheets. Symptoms.—The cases vary much in their onset, the changes in the urine sometimes being the first indication of the inflammation, especially when the infection is slight and of a chronic type. The changes produced in the urine consist in the presence in it of mucus, epithelial cells, pus, blood, or triple phosphates, and in its greater liability to decomposition. When the inflammation is more intense, frequent or painful micturition may be the first symptom observed. Inflammation at the neck of the bladder renders the discharge of urine difficult, by the swelling of the parts and by spasmodic contraction of the sphincter. The urine is voided fre- quently and with effort, and occasionally even when the bladder is empty there are violent contractions, known as vesical tenesmus. Pain is present, either a dull, aching pain felt above the pubes, or, more commonly, a sharp pain referred to the end of the penis. In acute cystitis affecting the neck of the bladder the pain occurs at the eud of micturition, when the contrac-