POLYPUS OF THE RECTUM. 1031 sutures. After securing the periphery of the two intestinal openings and tying numerous mesenteric vessels, a few additional deep sutures are intro- duced, and after dusting the wound with iodoform the stump of the pro- lapse is returned. The bowels should be kept confined for a week by the use of opium. Colostomy seems to be the safer procedure, and a subse- quent operation on the prolapsed gut may be done if the intussusceptuni is not removed by sloughing. BENIGN GROWTHS OF THE RECTUM. Polypus. —This term is applied to certain benign tumors growing from the rectal wall, to which they are attached by a more or less well formed pedicle. These may exist as either adenomatous, fibromatous, or papilloma- tous growths, and are comparatively rare affections. Other tumors, such as lipoma, cystoma, myoma, chondroma, and lymphoma, are occasionally ob- served. Adenoid Polypus.—This form of growth, which is usually attached to the wall of the rectum by a narrow pedicle, presents a red irregular tabu- lated surface, and may vary in size from that of a pea to that of a walnut. (Fig. 821.) The growth may be single, or a number may exist in the rectum at the same time. If the growth possesses a sufficiently long pedicle, it may be protruded from the anus during defecation, and, owing to the constriction of its circulation by the sphincter, may present a dark purple color. This is the form of polypus which is usually seen in children, but is a quite rare affection. The growth originates in an hyper- trophy of the follicles of Lieberkiihn, and the overlying mucous membrane is gradually Adenoid polypi of the rectum (After stretched so as to form a pedicle. Ban.) Fibroid Polypus.—This is a benign tumor, of the connective-tissue type, which may be found attached to the wall of the rectum by a pedicle. It usually has its origin low down in the rectum, and probably often originates from internal hemorrhoids, is often multiple, and may attain considerable size. Villous Polypus.—This is a papillomatous growth which is occasion- ally found growing from the walls of the rectum, and presents much the same appearance and structure as the villous tumor of the bladder. It originates from the papillae of the mucous membrane, and is covered with columnar-celled epithelium. Symptoms.—Polypus may exist for a long time without giving rise to any definite symptoms, although then the patient may experience a sense of fulness in the rectum which is not relieved by defecation. Its presence, however, is sooner or later manifested by the discharge of mucus and blood. The latter may be only a few drops, or profuse bleeding may be present. If the polypus is caught by the sphincter, discomfort or pain is expe- rienced. The constant escape of blood and mucus without pain should