LOCAL ANAESTHESIA. 250 vasomotor constriction. The drug is used in solutions varying from one to twelve per cent. The solution should be freshly made with boiled water, or, if it is to be kept for any time, a little bichloride of mercury or salicylic acid should be added to preserve it. We rarely use solutions of cocaine of greater strength than from one to four per cent., and find that analgesia can be as satisfactorily obtained with these as with the stronger solutions, while by the employment of the weaker solutions the risk of toxic effects is much diminished. Death has followed the use of a twelve per cent, solution in- jected into the urethra, and we consider it a safe rule never to inject more than one or two grains of the drug into a mucous cavity at one time. Cer- tain individuals have an idiosyncrasy for cocaine; children seem more sus- ceptible to its constitutional effects than adults. In the former class of patients we have seen marked symptoms of cocaine-poisoning result from the application of a four per cent, solution to the nasal mucous mem- brane. The toxic effects of cocaine are manifested by headache, pallor, cold moist skin, feeble slow pulse, incoherent speech, nausea, vomiting, epileptiform attacks, dilated pupils, dyspnoea, and asphyxia. The treat- ment of cocaine-poisoning consists in rest in the recumbent posture, the use of ammonia, whiskey, or ether by hypodermic injection, and the em- ployment of artificial respiration if the respiratory function is markedly disturbed. In the production of anaesthesia of mucous surfaces the part may be brushed over with a one or two per cent, solution of cocaine, or pledgets of absorbent cotton may be saturated with the solution and held in contact with the part for a few minutes. It may be applied to the nasal mucous membrane by the use of a spray or by pledgets of cotton. In operations upon the eye a few drops of a two per cent, solution are dropped into the eye, and the application is repeated until the analgesia is complete. To produce analgesia of the urethra a drachm or two of a one per cent, solution is injected and allowed to remain from two to five minutes. The injection of cocaine into the rectum is not to be recommended, as its use here is often attended with danger, but if it is employed in this organ, or in the region of the anus, a one or two per cent, solution should be applied upon a pledget of absorbent cotton. When it is desirable to produce analgesia of the skin or deeper tissue, it is necessary to inject the solution into the skin, cellular tissue, and subjacent tissues, and to avoid multiple punctures the needle is introduced at one point, and after injecting a certain amount of the solution it is partly with- drawn and thrust in another direction, this procedure being repeated until a circumscribed area of tissue has been injected at different points, when the needle is finally withdrawn. It is a safe rule not to employ more than one grain of cocaine hypodermically at one time. The electrolytic method with cocaine upon the positive pole has been highly recommended by some surgeons. It is well, where it is possible, to cut off the circulation from the part to be operated upon by placing around it a rubber strap or tube, which pre- vents the rapid entrance of the drug into the circulation, and thus enables much larger quantities to be used with safety.