120 EPITHELIOMA. vessel, producing a projection at that point, from which isolated cells or clusters of cells may be detached by the blood-current and carried into the circulation, and thus graft the tumor-tissue in different organs. The vessel involved is usually one of the veins of the general circulation, and the blood must pass through the right side of the heart and be filtered through the lungs : hence tumors of the lungs are very frequent, the infect- ing cells being caught in the capillaries. Not infrequently, however, the embolus passes the capillaries of the lung and goes onward to the other dis- tant organs, passing through the heart a second time. It is most frequently arrested in the liver, in the bones, and in the brain, but no part of the body is entirely exempt from secondary tumors. The liver, however, has a double dauger if the tumor be situated in the region of the portal circulation, for an embolus may also be detached from the tumor in those vessels and be arrested in the portal capillaries of the liver. It is not yet understood why the infection passes through the lung in some cases without involving it, while in others it is arrested at this point. In order to traverse the capilla- ries of the lung the masses which convey the iufection must be very minute, as an ordinary epithelial cell would be arrested in them unless it had the power of amoeboid movement. It is possible that the conditions for the growth of these cells in the lung capillaries are not so favorable as else- where, for the proportions of oxygen and carbonic dioxide, not to mention the more complicated compounds of the blood, are very different in the pulmonary circulation. A purely mechanical explanation has been given by some, who assume that the foramen ovale has remained open, and that in this way the cells have passed directly from the right side of the heart to the left without traversing the pulmonary circulation; but, even granting that this condition is present in a larger proportion of cases than is usually supposed, the number remains so small that this explanation can hardly be accepted. Varieties.—The principal varieties of carcinoma are epithelioma, tubu- lar carcinoma, and acinous carcinoma. Epithelioma.—Epithelioma is a tumor formed of flat ("pavement," "squamous") epithelial cells growing in globular or cylindrical masses, the cells at the centre of each mass being closely compressed and degenerated, forming the so-called "epithelial pearls" in the fully developed tumor. (Fig. 82.) A section through these pearls shows concentric zones of cells like the layers of an onion, the degenerated central cells being converted into a cheesy mass. Two-fifths of all the malignant epithelial growths are of this structure. Epithelioma occurs wherever flat epithelium is found, on the skin, the lips, the tongue, and in the oesophagus, larynx, vagina, cer- vix uteri, and urethra. Nearly three-quarters of the tumors occur on the face and lips. Epithelioma may also develop in the deep tissues of the neck from small dermoid cysts or foetal remains, and on the internal surface of ovarian dermoid cysts. Epithelioma which develops from congenital moles, warts, or naevi of the skin is very malignant, but when it originates from warts which have appeared later in life or from such conditions as chronic ulcers, lupus, and scars, it is the least malignant of these tumors. (Fig. 83.) Melanotic epithelioma is quite rare, even rarer than pigmented sarcoma,