SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 406 Fig. 307. Exposure of the supra-orbital nerve. (Agnew.) riot only the main peripheral trunk but all its branches are twisted into one common cord, until it becomes more or less fixed in some bony canal or at its ganglion ; then, as the axis cylinder is broken by twisting, gentle traction is sufficient to sever the surrounding sheath. Where it is impossible to reach the peripheral portion, the nerve may be divided in its middle, and the central end twisted ; the peripheral end should then be pulled out of the wound as far as pos- sible and cut off, in order to prevent any possible chance of reunion. The operations of nerve-stretching, neu- rotomy, neurectomy, and nerve-avulsion are often practised upon the following nerves : The Supra-orbital Nerve.—This nerve emerges from the supra-orbital foramen or notch at the junction of the middle and inner thirds of the eyebrow. It may be exposed by an incision about three-fourths of an inch in length, made parallel with the eyebrow and just beneath it (Fig. 307); the scar resulting will be hidden by the folds of the skin. The supratrochlear nerve lies half an inch to the inner side of the supra-orbital notch, and may be exposed by a like incision. The Superior Maxillary Division of the Fifth Nerve.—This nerve may be exposed by a curved incision one and a half inches long, just below the lower border of the orbit. The position of the foramen of exit is one- fourth of an inch below the orbit, on a line drawn from the supra-orbital notch to the canine tooth of the same side. The nerve lies deeper than would be expected, by reason of the concavity of the surface of the superior maxillary bone and because it is covered by the elevator muscle of the upper lip. The nerve being exposed by the incision previously described, it is seized with ba?mo- static forceps, or a ligature is tied around it to be used for the purpose of traction upon it. (Fig. 308.) A portion of the edge of the orbit just over the foramen is cut away with a chisel, the tissues of the orbit are pushed upward with a retractor, the thin bony wall between the orbital cavity and the nerve-canal is broken through with a director or elevator, and the nerve is exposed. It is then grasped with forceps and cut off with blunt scissors as far back as possible. The terminal filaments should next be torn loose from the skin and muscles by traction upon the distal end of the nerve with forceps. The infra-orbital artery, which accompanies the nerve, is sometimes injured, and gives rise to free hemorrhage, which can be controlled by packing the cavity with a strip of iodoform gauze. Fio. 303. Exposure of the infra-orbital nerve. (Agnew.)