593 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE. tibio fibular ligaments are torn, and the head of the bone may slip either forward or backward. The symptoms are inability to bear any weight upon the limb, and mobility of the head of the fibula. Treatment.—Reduction is accomplished by flexing the leg upon the thigh, to relax the biceps muscles, when the head of the bone can usually be pressed into its normal position. The limb should then be fixed upon a moulded binders' board splint, with a compress over the head of the fibula, or a plaster of Paris dressing may be applied. Dislocation of the Lower Extremity of the Fibula.—A few cases of this dislocation have been recorded, in which the lower end of the fibula has been torn from its attachments to the tibia and the foot and has been displaced backward. Treatment.—Reduction is accomplished by making extension and manipulation at the same time, and after the bone has been returned to its proper place the foot and leg should be fixed with a moulded binders' board splint, or by the application of a plaster of Paris bandage. DISLOCATIONS OF THE FOOT OR THE ANKLE. Dislocation of the ankle unaccompanied by fracture of the malleoli is an uncommon accident. Dislocation of the foot may be either forward, back- ward, or lateral. Forward Dislocation of the Ankle.—This may result from force applied to the front of the leg when the foot is flexed or from falls on the heel when the tarsus is flexed, and is apt to be accompanied by a fracture of one or both malleoli. The lateral and anterior ligaments are ruptured, the astragalus escapes from the cavity between the tibia and the fibula, and the articular surface of the tibia rests upon the upper surface of the calcaneum. (Fig. 533.) The symptoms of this dislocation are lengthening of the foot and shortening of the heel, the malleoli may be felt lower down than usual, and the tendo Aehillis is not prominent and rests against the tibia. Treatment.—Reduction is ac- complished by flexing the leg upon the thigh, in order to relax the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, and making extension from the foot, with counter-extension from the knee ; the bones of the leg should be drawn forward by an assistant at the same time that . Forward dislocation of the ankle. (Agnew.) the foot is forced backward. It is usually necessary to administer an anaesthetic, and in difficult cases the reduction may be facilitated by subcutaneous division of the tendo Aehillis. After reduction the leg and foot should be fixed by the application of moulded binders' board splints, or by the use of a fracture-box, and as soon as the swelling has diminished, a plaster of Paris bandage should be applied. Backward Dislocation of the Ankle.—This displacement is caused by the foot being driven backward while in the extended position. The lateral and anterior ligaments are ruptured, and the bones of the leg occupy a position in front of the astragalus. (Fig. 534.) The tibia may rest in con- tact with the scaphoid bone, or upon the neck or the head of the astragalus. 38