563 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. Dislocations of the Acromial End of the Clavicle.—Disloca- tions of the acromial end of the clavicle are sometimes described as disloca- tions of the scapula. There are three varieties : one in which the end of the clavicle is displaced upward from the acromion process; another in which the end of the clavicle is below the acromion process; and one in which the clavicle takes a position below the acromion and coracoid processes. The first variety of acromial dislocation of the clavicle is that most frequently seen. Dislocations of the acromial end usually result from force applied to the clavicle or to the acromion process of the scapula. Dislocation Upward.—This is marked by a projection above the acro- mion process, dropping of the shoulder, and more or less disability in the use of the arm. Examination with the fingers will reveal the displaced acromial end above the acromion process. (Fig. 483.) Treatment.—The reduction of this displacement is usually not a matter of difficulty, and is accomplished by pushing the head of the humerus upward, at the same time making downward or slightly lateral pressure upon the displaced acro- mial end of the clavicle. Although the reduction can be accomplished with ease, the greatest difficulty is often experienced in maintaining it. A com- press should be placed over the end of the clavicle, and the arm should be fastened to the side by a Velpeau's bandage. A very satisfactory method of retaining the end of the bone in place has been recommended by Stimson, consisting in applying a long strip of adhesive plaster three inches wide, the centre being placed over the flexed elbow and its ends carried up in front of and behind the arm, crossing over the end of the clavicle and being secured on the front and back of the chest respectively, while the bone is held in place by pressure upon the clavicle and the elbow. For additional security the forearm may be supported in a sling and the arm bound to the side of the chest. (Fig. 484.) In this dislocation, wiring the dislocated