145 GANGRENE. be diverted from his condition and the element of expectancy eliminated from the case if it be one in which compensation is sought for by settle- ment of the claim, recovery will take place. Isolation of the patient from sympathizing friends, the use of tonics and massage, with faradism, and a form of rest treatment such as is recommended by Weir Mitchell, will often be followed by complete recovery. GANGRENE. Gangrene and mortification are terms employed to indicate the death of the soft tissues in greater or smaller masses. The term sloughing is also used as synonymous with gangrene, and the dead tissue is known as a slough or sphacelus. Gangrene results from specific infection of the tissues, from an insufficient supply of nourishment to them, or from their mechanical destruction, and the condition may be brought about in different ways. It may result from the stasis and exudation consequent upon inflammation, the blood-vessels themselves being so compressed that their vitality is destroyed. It may also result from the sudden or gradual occlusion of the main arteries or veins of a part, or from mechanical injuries to the tissues, as seen in ex- tensive crushing or laceration, mechanical strangulation, or the devitaliza- tion of parts by heat or cold. Localized gangrene following injuries of the cerebro spinal axis is sometimes observed: here the predisposing cause of the affection is probably a disturbance of the vaso-motor equilibrium. In both dry and moist gangrene, when the gangrenous process is arrested, the dead tissue is separated from the living by a process of inflammation ; the living tissue at its point of contact with the dead tissue and for some distance from it becomes red and swollen, and exhibits all the signs of acute inflammation the line of contact between the dead and the living tissue is known as the line of demarcation, and the line of granulations which separates the dead tissue from the living is known as the line of separation. The separation of the dead tissue is effected by granulations which spring up from the living tissue as the result of inflammation, and there is also a cer- tain amount of pus secreted from the granulations. In moist gangrene the lines of demarcation and separation are most fully developed ; in dry gan- grene, on the other hand, these lines are usually imperfectly developed. For practical purposes the varieties of gangrene may be considered as fol- lows : dry gangrene, moist gangrene (which is divided into localized traumatic gangrene and traumatic spreading gangrene), gangrene from bed-sore, hospital gangrene, white gangrene, symmetrical gangrene, and diabetic gangrene. Dry Gangrene.—This variety of gangrene, also termed senile gangrene, occurs especially in old persons, and is rarely seen in subjects under fifty years of age, although, if favoring conditions are present, typical dry gan- grene may occur in the young, as evidenced by its occurrence in young persons who suffer from chronic ergotism. Dry gangrene essentially results from a gradual diminution of the arterial blood-supply, depending upon a feeble heart, or upon obstruction of the arteries by atheromatous deposits, and sometimes from embolism, the return of venous blood being usually not interfered with in this form of gangrene. 10