PAPILLOMATA OF THE PENIS. 113li gioma is also met with. Angioma is not so common as upon the female genitals, however, and is most frequently found in infants. When of large size it has been known to interfere with erection by the copious venous anastomosis, which conducts the blood away too rapidly. Sarcoma of the penis is rare, but may be found at any period of life. Papillomata or warts are most frequent on the inner layer of the prepuce and on the frenum, but they may be found upon any part of the organ. When they lie under the prepuce they are soft and moist, but when exposed to the air they become dry and hard (Fig. 857), and in some cases the epithelium collects upon them in thick layers so as to form a true cutaneous horn, which occasionally attains a very large size. Papillomata are generally due to the irritation excited by retained secretions caused by venereal infection or mere lack of cleanliness. When caused by venereal disease they are sometimes very numerous, covering the head of the penis or the vulva completely, and attaining a large size. (Fig. 858.) Papillomata appear to have contagious qualities even FlG- 857- when there is no evident venereal disease Horny warts of the prepuce. Warts of the vulva. (Deaver.) They are also not unlikely to be the origin of malignant disease later in life, and for these reasons they demand prompt and thorough treatment. Treatment.—In some cases proper attention to the cleansing of the parts and keeping them dry with a dusting powder of calomel, bismuth, and oxide of zinc, will produce a cure without further treatment. Warts should not be ligated, on account of the danger of infection from the sloughing tumor beyond the ligature. When they are small and soft they can be readily destroyed by any of the milder caustics, such as pow- dered alum or acetic acid, and if they resist these agents, fuming nitric acid should be freely applied until the base has been well burned. The opera- tion may be rendered painless by the application of cocaine. When they have existed for some time the warts may become very hard, and their removal by excision is then indicated, the hemorrhage being readily con- trolled by pressure and the pain being slight.