1014 SYMPTOMS OF FISTULA IN ANO. finger in the rectum is made to follow its direction, if an internal opening is present it may be brought in contact with the finger. A small bunch of granulations can often be felt in the wall of the rectum, indicating the posi- tion of the internal opening. The sinus leading to the rectal opening may be very tortuous, or may be branched so that great patience and delicate manipulation will be required before the eud of the probe can be made to enter the rectum. If the internal opening is very small, it may be impossi- ble to pass the probe through it aud thus locate it. In cases, therefore, where an internal opening is suspected, a little colored fluid may be injected into the sinus, and if an internal opening exists it will be seen to escape from the rectum, wheu the position of the opening may be located by the use of a rectal speculum. In blind external fistula the probe can usually be felt near the wall of the rectum at some point, but cannot be made to enter the cavity of the gut. In examining a patient suffering from blind internal fistula, the finger should be placed in the rectum, when the site of the internal opening can often be felt. Palpation of the skin in the anal region will usually reveal an indurated spot which rnarks the point where the sinus approaches the skin. A bent probe introduced into the internal opening may be passed into the sinus and can be felt under the skin. In cases of horseshoe fistula and very tortuous fistula, a satisfactory examination of the fistulous tracts cannot usually be made without the aid of an anaesthetic. In examining cases of fistula the fact should not be lost sight of that abscess connected with dis- eases of the spine, sacrum, or hip sometimes opens into the rectum, or the pus reaches the cutaneous surface in the region of the anus by following the rectal fascia. In such cases a careful examination of the patient will usually reveal the source of the disease. Symptoms.—The symptoms of rectal fistula vary greatly, and depend largely upon the character of the fistula and whether there is active suppura- tion in the fistulous tract. In complete rectal fistula there may be an escape of feces, if liquid, from the fistula, and also of pus, and the involuntary discharge of flatus. Pain is usually not a prominent symptom if drainage from the fistulous tracts is free, but if they are closed by granulations acute pain may be experienced, followed by a discharge of pus and relief from pain. In blind internal fistula pain and the escape of pus with the stool are more apt to occur than in the other varieties, and in this fistula, as well as in the complete one, a few drops of blood may be noticed upon the feces after they have been passed. Treatment.—In complete fistula the division of the tissues between the rectal and cutaneous openings is the only operation which is followed by a cure. The parts should be sterilized, and after the patient has been anaes- thetized a director should be passed into the external opening and its ex- tremity brought out of the anus. The tissues upon the director should then be divided, care being taken that the division of the sphincter muscle is at a right angle to its fibres (Fig. 812), for such a division is less likely to be followed by incontinence than au oblique division would be. In complicated fistula the fistulous tracts should be laid open a little at a time, and not cut directly through the sphincter ; when thus exposed they should be explored ;