1020 TREATMENT OF INTERNAL HEMORRHOIDS. is prolapsed, or may be introduced into the rectum. Suppositories contain- ing these substances may also be employed. If a patient suffering from internal hemorrhoids pays attention to the condition of his bowels and uses some of the remedies mentioned, he will often be able to get on comfortably for years without having his piles operated upon. When, however, hemorrhage becomes a prominent symp- tom and is persistent, nothing short of an operation can entirely relieve the condition. Radical Treatment.—This maybe accomplished by various procedures, among the most important of which are—1, chemical caustics ; 2, the injec- tion of coagulating fluids; 3, ligature; 4, the clamp and cautery; 5, ex- cision ; 6, electrolysis. Preceding any of the radical operations for internal hemorrhoids, the patient's bowels should be moved by a laxative and the rectum thoroughly emptied by an enema a few hours before the time fixed for the operation. In all cases it will be found advisable to perform the operation under general anaesthesia. After the patient has been anaes- thetized he should be placed in the lithotomy position, and the index fingers or the thumbs should be introduced into the rectum and the sphincter thoroughly stretched until it is felt that its resistance has been overcome. (Fig. 808.) Forced dilatation of the sphincter is a useful procedure in many rectal operations, and is employed by some surgeons as a curative measure in the treatment of internal hemorrhoids. By this procedure the hemor- rhoids can be brought into view and the cavity of the rectum can be in- spected. After stretching the sphincter the rectum should be irrigated with a solution of green soap, or may be wiped out with a gauze pad saturated with soap solution, and is finally irrigated with boric acid solution. Chemical Caustics.—This method of treating hemorrhoids is not now much employed, but, if used, the caustic to be preferred is nitric acid. In small capillary hemorrhoids cauterization with nitric acid will effect a cure, but the application may have to be repeated more than once before the desired result is obtained. It is, therefore, less certain than the ligature or the clamp and cautery, and is not to be preferred to either of these agents. Injection of Coagulating Fluids.—This method is sometimes employed, tannic acid, extract of ergot, tincture of iron, carbolic acid, and other sub- stances being used. Carbolic acid, from fifteen to fifty per cent., in sterilized glycerin, is the drug upon which most reliance is placed. In the injection treatment, after the hemorrhoids are exposed, two or three drops of the carbolic acid solution are deposited in the centre of the hemorrhoid by means of a hypodermic syringe with a very fine needle. The injections have to be repeated a number of times ; the results following this treatment are uncertain, and it is not without danger ; inflammation and sloughing of the hemorrhoid may occur, as well as periproctitis. This method is a favorite one in the hands of irregular rectal specialists, and almost every surgeon has seen very unsatisfactory results follow its use. We have seen extensive sloughing of the hemorrhoid, and of the skin in the region of the anus, follow the use of these injections. The method is therefore not to be recommended, and should be employed only in cases in which the patient refuses to take an anaesthetic or to have any more certain operation per-