TREATMENT OF TUMORS OF THE JAWS. 770 Treatment.—This consists in the removal of the growth with a portion of the bone from which it springs. To obtain the best results the tumor should be removed as early as possible, and, if it is found that it is impos- sible to remove the growth completely, no operation should be undertaken. A large portion of the upper or lower jaw may be involved and require removal, and the operation, if the growth is extensive, may be attended with great risk. Many cases when they come under the care of the surgeon are inoperable by reason of their great extent. If the whole of the upper or of the lower jaw is involved, so that the complete removal of either would be required, the operation can scarcely be considered a j ustifiable one, by reason of the risk of the operation itself and the subsequent difficulty in taking nourishment; but if the removal of a portion only of the jaw is required, the operation is not attended with great danger, and the patient may have a considerable period of comfort before recurrence takes place. The steps of the operation are described under Partial or Complete Excisions of the Jaw. Odontomata.—These tumors have been described in the article upon Tumors (page 87), and the greatest interest is attached to their presence from the fact that they have often been confounded with malignant growths of the jaw, and as a result of this error extensive and unnecessarily severe operations have been undertaken for their removal. The diagnosis is made from malignant tumors of the jaw by their occurrence in connection with the absence of certain teeth in young subjects, and the painlessness and slowness of their growth. Treatment.—As these tumors are usually en- capsulated, they should be exposed, and enucleated if possible; if this cannot be done the bony wall of the tumor may be cut away, and the cavity packed with gauze and allowed to heal by granulation. In cases where the diagnosis cannot be satisfactorily made, it is wise to make an exploratory incision to ascertain the nature of the growth, and avoid the unnecessary removal of a large portion of the jaw. TUMORS OF THE ANTRUM. The antrum may be the seat of myxomatous, sarcomatous, and epithelio- matous growths. Myxoma.—These tumors are often associated with similar growths in the nasal cavities, and when numerous cause expansion of the bone and result in great deformity. Sarcoma.—Sarcoma of the antrum may be of the spindle- or round-cell variety, and originates in the muco- periosteum. As the growth increases in size it may extend into the nasal cavities; it may also extend downward, displacing the alveolar processes and the teeth, or upward, displacing the orbital plate. (Fig. 685.) The growth may perforate the anterior wall of the antrum and involve the cheek or the posterior wall and find its way into the spheno-maxillary or temporal fossa. Epithelioma.—This affection of the antrum, which occurs in pa- tients past middle life, usually starts from the upper jaw, and is accompanied by pain, oedema of the eyelid, and infiltration of the skin over the antrum, which is finally perforated, after which a fungous growth appears upon the cheek. Extensive involvement of the subcutaneous tissue occurs at the same time. In the early stages of sarcoma or epithelioma of the antrum