CHAPTER XVI. 317 SURGERY OP THE BLOOD-VESSELS. EST JURIES OF ARTERIES. Arteries may suffer from contusion, or from lacerated, punctured, and incised wounds. Contusion of Arteries.—This form of injury is probably much more common in subcutaneous injuries than is generally supposed, as in the case of extensive contusions many arteries are necessarily involved, but it is only when an artery of considerable size is severely injured that distinctive symptoms arise by which the nature of the injury can be recognized. A severe localized contusion of an artery may result in partial or complete laceration of the inner and middle coats, the external coat remaining un- injured ; in consequence, a thrombus forms in the vessel, and subsequent obliteration of the vessel at the point of injury may occur, or the force of the blood-current may distend the external coat, giving rise to an aneurism or to rupture of the external coat, producing a diffused aneurism. Com- plete rupture of all the coats may follow contusion of an artery, which in the smaller vessels is followed by retraction and curling up of the divided ends, so that little blood escapes, and healing with obliteration of the vessel occurs. In larger vessels complete rupture is followed by the rapid escape of blood, with the constitutional symptoms of concealed hemorrhage, and a tumor rapidly forms at the seat of injury, in which slight pulsation may be discovered. The later results of contusion of arteries depend upon the loss of blood-supply to the parts supplied by the injured vessels, and may be shown by loss of color, by coldness of the parts, and by ulceration or gangrene ; if sloughing of the skin over the tumor takes place, hemorrhage occurs. Symptoms.—If after contusion of an artery pulsation immediately or slowly disappears from the vessel below the seat of injury, it is probable that a thrombus has formed, and if sloughing of the vessel at the seat of in- jury does not occur and the collateral circulation is established, the vitality of the parts supplied by the vessel is retained. We have seen cases of con- tusion of the brachial artery at the elbow and of the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle followed by obliteration of these vessels, where the vitality of the parts below was maintained. In many cases so fortunate a result does not occur ; an aneurism may form at the seat of contusion of the vessel, or gangrene may occur in the parts supplied by the vessel, or subsequent sloughing of the vessel at the seat of injury may give rise to secondary hemorrhage or to the formation of a diffused aneurism.