118 PATHOLOGY OF CARCINOMA. most dangerous of these growths, often filling the entire bladder, and some- times sending processes down the urethra even to the meatus, and the severe and fiequent hemorrhages which take place from its surfaces occasionally result fatally. Papilloma is essentially a disease of youth, although it may develop at any age. The multiple form in the larynx is seldom found ex- cept in children. Papillomata may slough if their nutrition is cut off by traction or twisting of the pedicle. In other cases they disappear sponta- neously through causes which are not understood, and it is not uncommon to see a crop of warts develop and persist for some months upon the hands of children and then suddenly disappear. Like all epithelial growths, the papillomata are liable to malignant degeneration as the result of con- tinued or increased irritation. The change most naturally results in the formation of an epithelioma, the epithelial cells beginning to burrow into the basement membrane, and the process of cornification which belongs solely to the superficial cells affecting the entire thickness of the epithelial layer. Clinically these changes are marked by induration of the base of the tumor and by a tendency to ulceration and hemorrhage. Papilloma is also liable to sarcomatous degeneration owing to changes taking place in the fibrous parts of its structure, and this is especially true of those papillomata in which the fibrous tissue approaches a myxomatous character. Treatment.—The mild caustics, such as strong acetic acid, may first be tried, and if they are ineffectual nitric acid should be employed to remove the growths. In papilloma of the genitals it is rarely necessary to do more than apply pulverized bismuth, or boric acid, or some astringent powder, such as calomel, dermatol, or aristol, after the proper attention to cleanli- ness, for cleanliness alone and the arrest of any genital discharge will cure the majority of cases. Ligation of the pedicle has been recommended in order to remove these tumors, but it should not be employed, because there is danger of infection from the mass as it sloughs away. It is far better to excise the tumor and ligate any bleeding vessel which may be found. The treatment of papilloma of the larynx, bladder, and rectum is described iu their proper chapters. CARCINOMA. Carcinoma is a tumor formed of epithelial cells contained in irregular alveoli formed by a fibrous stroma, and characterized by a tendency to per- forate the basement membrane upon which they grow and to invade the sur- rounding tissue. These tumors vary in the arrangement of the stroma and cells, and their structure and the character of their epithelium correspond to those of the part from which they originate. Pathology.—By studying the edges of old ulcers of the legs, and the glands of the lips in the aged, or seborrheic patches on the face, all the changes from normal epithelium through the stages of irritation to that of malignant degeneration can be distinctly traced. One of the earliest changes in the epithelial cells tending to produce these growths appears to be a premature cornification. The most superficial layers of the epithelium of the skin become hardened and flattened with age, and Eanvier ascribes this cornification to the production of a substance