213 CHAPTER X. WOUNDS. A wound is a solution of continuity or division of the soft tissues produced by cutting, tearing, or compressing force. Wounds are usually classified according to their causation or nature, as incised, when resulting from a sharp-edged instrument; lacerated, when the tissues are extensively torn or separated; contused, when resulting from a more diffused force tearing and bruising the tissues ; punctured, when produced by some nar- row instrument which causes a wound whose depth is greater than its external surface, such as a stab wound ; poisoned, when some poisonous substance enters the wound and produces both local infection and consti- tutional disturbance; gunshot, when the injury results from fire-arms or the explosion of powder. The repair of wounds is considered upon page 69. Contusions.—A contusion is a subcutaneous bruising or laceration of the soft parts, involving the connective tissue, the muscles, veins, arteries, lymphatics, and nerves, and in extreme cases the periosteum and bone may also suffer. When it involves only the superficial tissues it is known as a bruise. Contusions result from blows with blunt objects, and from violent compression of the parts, and the amount of injury inflicted depends upon the extent of the application of the force, and may vary from a mere bruise to a complete disorganization of the subcutaneous tissues. In slight con- tusions a few vessels are ruptured in the cellular tissue, giving rise to the discoloration or ecchymosis seen in ordinary bruises, which later develops the black and blue appearance. If the contusion of the parts is severe, a large quantity of blood may escape from the vessels, and if it becomes clotted it forms a coagulum in the tissues, which is known as a thrombus. If, however, the blood remains fluid and is circumscribed by the conden- sation of the surrounding tissues, it is known as a luematoma. Subcutaneous collections of effused blood, whether liquid or clotted, rarely suppurate, and usually undergo absorption. Accidental infection of the effusion may occur through sloughing of the skin covering it, or through injudicious attempts to remove the fluid by puncture. The effusion is sometimes surrounded by a layer of granulation-tissue, which is in time converted into fibrous tissue; the central portions of the effusion become decolorized, and, being surrounded by fibrous tissue, a serous cyst may be formed; in time the liquid portions may be absorbed, and a firm fibrous mass is left in the tissues. Symptoms.—Pain of a dull character is usually present in contusions, and depends largely upon direct injury to the nerves or upon the amount of tension in the parts ; swelling is always present to a greater or less extent, and