977 RELATIONS OF INGUINAL HERNIA. the conjoined tendon instead of pushing it forward, and it may also be situ- ated at the external border of the tendon in rare cases. An old oblique her- nia often cannot be distinguished clinically from a direct hernia, because the dragging of the protruded bowel pulls the internal ring downward and in- ward in line with the external ring and destroys the obliquity of the canal, but anatomically the two are recognized by the situation of the epigastric artery, which lies internal to the neck of the oblique hernia and external to that of the direct. The distinction is of importance clinically, because an oblique hernia is much easier to retain by a truss than a direct. Congenital hernia is necessarily of the oblique variety. An oblique hernia which has merely passed the internal ring and not the external and lies in the inguinal canal is known as an incomplete hernia or a bubonocele. A hernia which lies in the substance of the abdominal wall is called an in- terstitial hernia. Interstitial hernia may be divided into preperitoneal, in- termuscular, and subfascial. In the preperitoneal variety the sac is formed by a protrusion of the peritoneum, usually one of the natural pouches in that membrane, and makes a bed for itself in the extraperitoneal fat, between the membrane and the muscles. Strangulation may take place in such a sac. The sac of the intermuscular variety is formed by a protrusion which passes through the internal ring, and then leaves the inguinal canal by pene- trating its walls without reaching the external ring, and makes its way into the substance of the abdominal wall between the muscles, usually lying between the internal and the external oblique. The subfascial her- nia lies under the deep fascia. In these hernise, especially the preperitoneal form, the sac may be divided, and a part of it may lie in the canal and even reach the scrotum. In hernise which pass into the canal through the inter- nal ring, and then penetrate its walls and become interstitial, the strangu- lation may take place at the internal ring or at the opening through which they have left the canal. In the preperitoneal form the sac and parietal peritoneum are closely adherent where they are in contact, and they can, therefore, be distinguished from a hernia which has been reduced en masse. Interstitial hernias are usually situated near the inguinal canal, and their sacs may be directed towards the iliac fossa, towards the anterior wall of the abdomen, or inward towards the bladder. In the intramuscular form, the muscles over the tumor may atrophy and even disappear over a considerable area, and in these cases the peritoneal sac may turn upward over the abdo- men, or downward over the anterior surface of the thigh, for having thus become subcutaneous it is no longer limited by the fascial attachments. Relations of Inguinal Hernia.—As an inguinal hernia enlarges it de- scends into the scrotum in the male and into the cellular tissue of the labium majus in the female, and when it reaches a large size it may hang down to the knees. Double inguinal hernia is a very common occurrence. The re- lations of the cord to the neck of the sac in inguinal hernia are of consider- able importance. The cord lies behind the sac in the majority of cases, but it may be spread out upon it, the vas deferens being always internal and the vessels external. Sometimes the protrusion appears to have passed directly through the tissues of the cord, separating the vas from the vessels. In con- 62