LYMPHATIC TUMORS. 316 several glands enlarged, and a peripheral lesion can in most cases be found to account for the infection. Hypertrophy is distinguished from malignant lym- phoma by the fact that in the latter several or all of the groups of lymphatic glands are involved, while in the former only a single region may be affected. Treatment.—Resolution may be favored by cold wet dressings, the ice- bag, or counter-irritation with iodine or the therrao-cautery. Suppuration demands incision, and the complete removal of all remaining gland-tissue by the curette or the knife, in order to prevent the formation of troublesome sinuses. When the infection is tuberculous the glands may be excised, or when they have formed abscesses they may be incised and scraped, or aspi- rated and injected with iodoform, as described on page 61. Syphilitic en- largements will usually disappear under constitutional treatment, although here also extirpation may be necessary for very large and indurated masses. The so-called scrofulous diathesis undoubtedly predisposes to hypertro- phy of the lymph-nodes, even when no characteristic tuberculous change can be found there or elsewhere in the body, and in such individuals the glands should be removed as soon as they enlarge, unless great numbers of them are hypertrophied. It is generally wise to remove hypertrophied glands as soon as it is evident that they will not resolve, for if tubercu- lous they are a constant menace of constitutional infection, and are also much more difficult to cure after sup- puration has taken place. Tumors. — While the other tu- mors of the lymphatic nodes are else- where described, it will be well to consider in this place the peculiar disease known as malignant lymphoma or Hodgkin's disease. (Fig. 253.) Multiple enlargement of the glands is found in leukaemia, but in Hodgkin's disease the blood appears to be nor- mal, and the latter for that reason has been called pseudoleukemia. In malignant lymphoma one group of glands enlarges without apparent cause, usually in the neck or in the axilla, and the process then spreads to other groups, including the internal glands, especially those of the medias- tinum. The patient becomes cachectic, feverish, suffers from diarrhoea, and gradually fails ; and at autopsy it is found that there has been a metastasis to the lungs, liver, and other organs. The tumors may be formed of soft tissue like the ordinary hypei-plastic lymph-gland, or of a dense, hard, fibrous tissue with spindle-cells, as if the connective-tissue stroma of the glands had increased and caused the disappearance of the softer parts. Nothing is known of the etiology of this disease, nor can anything be done in the way of treatment. Malignant lymphoma, or Hodgkin's disease.