NON-MALIGNANT STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 1025 administered. The local treatment of the ulceration may be accomplished by the use of enemata or suppositories, or by direct applications made to the ulcerated surface. The latter method requires the use of a speculum, which is painful and should be avoided except in special cases. In cases of traumatic, catarrhal, or dysenteric ulceration, the use of an enema of bismuth, subnit., gr. xx ; tr. opii, n^x ; uracil, acacia?, fsii, morning and evening, or of a solution of argenti nitratis, gr. vi; aqua?, fgii, may be followed by good results ; or the following suppository may be used morn- ing and evening in place of the enema : pulv. opii, gr. ss ; pulv. iodoformi, gr. v ; ol. theobrom., q. s. It is sometimes desirable to make direct appli- cations, in which case a solution of nitrate of silver, gr. v to x to the ounce, should be gently brushed over the ulcerated surfaces. In tuber- culous ulceration the best results are obtained by carefully curetting the ulcerated surface and subsequently touching it with a ten-grain solution of nitrate of silver, and by the daily use of suppositories containing iodoform. If the treatment is applied early in tuberculous ulceration, perforation of the bowel and the formation of fistula? may be avoided. In this form of ulcera- tion the administration of tonics and cod-liver oil is often of the greatest benefit. If, however, fistula? already exist, these should be laid open and curetted. Syphilitic ulceration should be treated by the local use of nitrate of silver and iodoform, and at the same time iodide of potassium, alone, or combined with biniodide of mercury, should be administered internally. Encysted Rectum.—This is a rectal affection occasionally observed, -consisting in ulceration and occlusion of the lacunae or sinuses of Morgagni, which are situated just above the external sphincter. The symptoms of the affection are pain and discomfort in the rectum, the pain not usually being so severe as in the case of fissure. The treatment consists in exposing the lower portion of the rectum with a speculum, when the distended or ulcerated sinuses may often be seen. A probe bent in the form of a hook should be passed into these sinuses, and they should be laid open, which causes their obliteration, and is usually followed by relief of the symptoms. Non-Malignant Stricture of the Rectum.—Strictures of the rec- tum, independent of those resulting congenitally, which have already been considered, and those due to cancer and the presence of tumors outside of the bowel, may result from the cicatrization and contraction following wounds, or from extensive ulceration of the rectum following proctitis, sloughing, dysentery, tuberculosis, chancroid, or syphilis. Spasmodic stricture of the rectum, aside from spasmodic contraction of the sphincter muscle, is a rare affection, but a few well-authenticated cases have been reported in which this condition existed. These strictures are said to be more common in females than in males, and are generally observed in adults. The stricture may consist of a ring-like constriction or a narrowing of the tube several inches in length. The mucous membrane is often ulcerated at the seat of stricture and is replaced by dense cicatricial tissue. In stricture of the rectum due to the presence of external growths the mucous membrane is generally normal. Marked dilatation of the bowel above the seat of stricture is usually present, and the walls of the bowel may be so thin that 65