CHAPTER XII. 249 ANAESTHETICS. General anaesthesia for surgical operations which are painful or which consume a considerable amount of time may be induced and maintained by the use of nitrous oxide gas, ether, chloroform, ethyl bromide, or A. G. E. mixture, while in minor operations, or those which consume little time, local anaes- thesia, obtained by the use of cold, a spray of ether, rhigolene, or ethyl chloride, cocaine or eucain hydrochloride, or Schleich's method of infiltration anaesthesia, may be employed. LOCAL ANAESTHESIA. Cold.—Local anaesthesia may be produced by the application of cold, either by holding a piece of ice or a mixture of salt and ice in contact with the surface for one or two minutes ; the part becomes blanched and insen- sitive. Rhigolene or Ether Spray.—The application of a spray of rhigolene or ether to the surface of the body for a few minutes will produce a similar result as regards the production of anaesthesia. Ethyl Chloride may also be used to produce local anaesthesia, and is conveniently furnished in glass tubes, one end of which is drawn out into a fine point and hermetically sealed, or provided with a fine metal tube with a screw cap ; when required for use the end of the glass point is broken off or the metal cap is removed and a fine jet of ethyl is projected upon the surface, the warmth of the hand being sufficient to force the fluid from the tube. Local anaesthesia produced by the various means mentioned may be made use of in minor surgical procedures, such as aspiration, the opening of abscesses, removal of foreign bodies from the tissues, and the removal of superficial tumors. As all these substances produce anaesthesia by cold, if the operation is one requiring considerable dissection, the application has to be repeated a number of times, and the vitality of the tissues may be so much impaired by the cold that primary union may not be obtained or sloughing may take place. For this reason we think it is wise to restrict their use to the production of anaesthesia for the opening of abscesses, ex- ploratory puncture, or aspiration. Cocaine Hydrochlorate.—Local anaesthesia may also be obtained by the employment of an aqueous solution of hydrochlorate of cocaine applied to mucous surfaces or injected into the tissues ; it has no anaesthetic action when applied to the surface of the skin. When a solution of cocaine comes in contact with sensory nerve-endings an area of analgesia results from their temporary paralysis ; it also produces a localized anaemia of the tissues from