PATHOLOGY OF HERNIA. 981 A Meckel's diverticulum or the appendix verniiforinis may be found in a hernial sac, and in the case of these organs and of the Fallopian tube a peculiar form of strangulation, known as retrograde strangulation, may take place. This occurs when the base of the vermiform appendix or of the tube descends into the hernia while the tip remains free in the peritoneal cavity, and gangrene of the tip must result if the base becomes strangulated. When these organs are found in a hernia they should be drawn down and examined through their entire length before they are returned to the ab- domen, lest peritonitis follow from perforation of the tip. The bowel in a hernia may be inflamed, it may be the seat of tuberculosis or of cancer, and perforation of the appendix may occur just as it does in the peritoneal cavity. Foreign bodies also occasionally find their way into the bowel con- tained in the hernial sac, and they may perforate the gut and its coverings, and escape externally, after the formation of an abscess. The sac of a hernia may be a congenital pouch like that of the congen- ital inguinal or umbilical hernia, or it may be formed at the same time as the protrusion. In the latter case it is made by the sliding and stretching of the peritoneum in the neighborhood of the aperture through which the hernia escapes, as is shown by the folds and wrinkles of the membrane on the abdominal side. The sac is subject to certain changes. It may be divided into pouches either by bands external to it, especially in the femoral region by a band of the cribriform fascia, or by internal bands of organized peritoneal fibrinous exudate. When internal bands are present the sac is frequently found very much narrowed at the neck. This may be the result of inflammation, or it may be due to the natural attempt to close the funicu- lar process at one or more points. The contents of the sac may be free, or they may become adherent owing to a chronic serous inflammation excited by the pressure of a truss or the impeded circulation. In some cases one of the extraperitoneal organs may be found in the sac, the caecum, for instance, slipping down with the fat behind it, so that the peritoneal sac does not entirely include the bowel, that part of it which was extraperitoneal in the abdominal cavity remaining in the same relation to the sac. Such a con- dition as this, the presence of adhesions, or the hypertrophy of the omentum, already described, may prevent the return of the contents of the sac into the abdomen. Sometimes the neck of the sac becomes shut off by an adherent plug of omentum while the hernia is reduced, and serum accumulates in the empty sac and produces a hydrocele of the hernial sac. In some cases a sac with an obliterated neck has been pushed forward by another hernia devel- oping behind it, a condition which must not be confounded with infantile or encysted hernia, although it may closely resemble the latter. The mechanics of strangulation are not yet thoroughly understood. Strangulation may be the result of the descent of an additional loop of bowel into the hernia, for the narrow ring may be dilated as the loop passes, and may then contract by its elastic force around the small part of the loop. The obstruction to the passage of the contents along the intestine may be complete even when there is considerable space in the ring by the side of the bowel, and when a No. 10 English catheter can be passed down into the loop of gut. As the strangulated loop is shut off it becomes distended by