898 ACUTE MASTITIS. The nipple is normal in most eases, though oeeasionally it is stretched out, and the areola is apt to be somewhat larger than normal. Treatment.—The radical treatment of this condition is removal, although when the breasts are not too large some relief can be obtained by a properly fitting support for the heavy glands. The glands are very vas- cular, and an operation for this condi- tion involves vessels of very large size. Occasionally greatly dilated veins are to be seen over the surface of the tumor. INJUKIES. Injuries of the breast consist of wounds and contusions. In wounds of the breast the hemorrhage is likely to be severe, but the wounds unite readily, and in lactation there is seldom any es- cape of milk after the first few hours. Hypertrophy of one mamma in a girl aged Contusions of the breast may result in fifteen. 17 the production of a large swelling caused by blood-clot and oedema, and it is claimed that blows upon the breast may be the origin of a chronic mastitis or even of malignant disease ; but in only ten or twelve per cent, of the cases of cancer is there any history of such an injury. The treatment of wounds of the breast does not differ from that of similar wounds elsewhere. Contusions are treated by the application of cold cloths, the ice-bag, and compression with a thick cotton dressing. INFLAMMATION. The nipple and the areola are subject to inflammations resulting from pyogenic and specific infection. The primary lesion of syphilis is often found here, a healthy woman having been infected by nursing a syphilitic child. Erosions and superficial ulcers of the nipple are not uncommon from nursing, and are a frequent cause of deeper inflammation in the breast. The treatment of these small lesions consists in absolute cleanliness of the parts and also of the infant's mouth, in suspending nursing or permitting it only at long intervals, and in touching the fissure with solid nitrate of silver. Proper attention to the development of the nipple before the child is born and to cleanliness afterwards will prevent fissures. No strong antiseptics can be used, for fear of poisoning the infant. An abscess may be limited to the nipple and areola, distending the nipple immensely, and sometimes dis- charging through one of the lacteal ducts. Obstruction of the ducts in the nipple may produce cysts, which may suppurate without any over-distention of the breast proper. Acute Mastitis.—Mastitis, as inflammation of the breast is called, may be acute or chronic. The acute form is due to bacterial infection, which may take place through the milk-ducts, or through the lymphatic channels from an infection starting in some wound of the nipple or the skin. The inflam- mation may be limited to one lobe or may extend throughout the breast. It Fig. 759.