DIAGNOSIS OF TUMORS OF THE KIDNEY. 1122 the kidney rarely exactly reproduces the kidney-structure, and is not alto- gether benign, rather resembling adenoma of the rectum in its tendency to form secondary tumors and to return after removal. These tumors are usually small, and have been successfully removed by partial resection of the organ. The most common tumor of the kidney is sarcoma, which usually de- velops in children in the first two or three years of life and forms tumors of immense size, more than half filling the abdomen. These tumors occasion no symptoms, as a rule, until they have reached their full growth, when digestion and respiration are embarrassed by their pressure and the child falls into cachexia. The tumors may be hard or soft, and are occasionally cystic. They retain more or less the shape of the kidney, and seldom cause urinary symptoms. Both kidneys are rarely involved. Late in the disease there may be hematuria and metastasis to other organs. Eemoval is the only possible treatment for these tumors, and if it is undertaken early a permanent cure may be hoped for; but in the great majority of cases the disease is recognized too late to admit of a cure, and if extirpation is possi- ble at all it is usually incomplete, and recurrence follows. Carcinoma of the kidney is a disease of later life, especially after the fiftieth year, when sarcoma of that organ is almost unknown. The tumors are not so large as in sarcoma, but may attain a considerable size, even that of a man's head. The neoplasm almost invariably causes profuse hematuria, which may be intermittent. Pain is an uncertain and late symptom, and cachexia appears in the later stages. Vesical symptoms are induced by the blood in the urine, and if infection takes place an acute pyelitis or cystitis develops, with severe symptoms. Death is usually the result of the exhaust- ing hemorrhages or the infection. Nephrectomy for malignant disease in the adult, while giving better operative results than in children, has seldom effected a permanent cure. The Diagnosis of Tumors of the Kidney.—The kidney is accessible to palpation, when the patient lies upon his back and the surgeon faces him at the side, placing one hand in the lumbar region to lift the kidney up towards the anterior abdominal wall, while the other hand makes firm pressure in front and maps out the organ. In thin individuals with lax abdominal walls quite small tumors of the kidney may be recognized, while in others it is impossible to reach the normal organ without an anaesthetic. As a rule, the lower half of the right kidney can be palpated readily, but the left kidney not so easily. Tumors of the kidney are usually rather fixed in the lumbar region unless the kidney from which the tumor has developed is itself movable. They do not move with respiration unless they attain such a size as to press upon the under surface of the liver or of the dia- phragm and thus have movements imparted to them. When firmly held they do not follow the ascent of the diaphragm. As the kidney lies behind the peritoneum at the attachment of the ascending and descending colon, a tumor growing in the kidney carries this part of the intestine forward with it, and the bowel can usually be recognized as a sausage-like mass or as a line of tympanitic resonance on percussion crossing the front of the tumor. The area of percussion dulness of the tumor and its relations to the liver and