336 ENTRANCE OF AIR INTO VEINS. wounds require the application of ligatures to the euds of the vein; and although the application of a ligature to the cardiac side of the vein may be necessary only in the case of veins in the axilla and the neck, or where there is very free communication of the veins at a distance from valves, we think it safer to apply two ligatures to the divided vein in any location, if it be a large one. Entrance of Air into Veins.—This accident, which is a rare one, has occurred when large veins have been opened in operations about the axilla and neck, and has been attended by alarming symptoms and often fatal re- sults. Hare, from experiments upon animals, concludes that death from this accident could result only when enormous quantities of air had been forced into a vein, and is inclined to think that the accident is not likely to happen during operations, and that deaths attributed to this cause are due to other conditions. Be this as it may, careful and competent observers, during operations upon the neck and the axilla, in which large veins were opened, have observed the development of alarming symptoms, or sudden death from cardiac paralysis, which phenomena are difficult of ex- planation upon any other hypothesis. When a large vein near the heart, such as the axillary, internal jugular, or subclavian, is opened and remains patulous, frorn mechanical or pathological causes, air is sucked into the vein by the aspirating action of the chest and carried to the right auricle, and death may result from cardiac paralysis, or from syncope if the presence of air in the heart interferes with its action so markedly that sufficient blood is not sent to the brain. Symptoms.—The entrance of air into the veins is accompanied by a hissing sound, and frothy blood may issue from the vessel. The patient becomes pale, the pupils are dilated, the pulse is feeble and flickering, the respiratory movements are exaggerated, and upon auscultation a churning sound may be heard over the heart. The patient may die rapidly from syncope, or the alarming symptoms may gradually subside, and recovery follow. We have seen a patient during an amputation of the shoulder- joint present these alarming symptoms for a few minutes and eventually recover. Treatment.—With the possibility of this serious complication in view, in operating upon the neck and the axilla, in the dangerous area, as it is termed, care should be taken to secure veins, if possible, on the cardiac side by forceps or ligatures before they are divided ; incomplete division of the veins should also be avoided. If, however, the accident occurs, as evi- denced by the symptoms presented, the wounded vein should be closed by pressure of the finger until it can be secured by forceps or ligatures ; or, if this cannot be accomplished, the wound should be kept filled with normal salt solution or sterilized water, to prevent the further entrance of air. The patient's head should be lowered, to prevent syncope, and the heart should be stimulated by the administration of ammonia and stimulants and the hypodermic use of strychnine and digitalis. The legs and arms should be elevated, and the femoral and axillary vessels may be compressed, to increase the amount of blood sent to the brain. Artificial respiration has been recommended, but the value of this procedure is questionable.