TUMORS OF THE LID. 804 The treatment should include the internal administration of iron, qui- nine, and arsenic. Locally, anodyne solutions are useful, particularly lead water and laudanum. Ocular complications require the same treatment as when they occur under other circumstances. Blepharitis.—This name is applied to a variety of acute, subacute, and chronic inflammations of the ciliary border, the chief symptoms of which are the formation of crusts or scales, small ulcers at the roots of the lashes, passive hyperemia of the lid circulation, and, if neglected, thickening of the palpebral border, together with malposition or loss of the eyelashes. In the chronic or hypertrophic type of this disease the thickened and rounded lid-border gives rise to the condition known as lippitudo, or " blear- eye." Blepharitis may manifest itself as an eczema (ulcerated blepharitis), a seborrhcea (non-ulcerated blepharitis), or sometimes as an acne (blepharo- adenitis). A common cause of this affection is astigmatism, and it may follow the exanthemata or disease of the nares, or may be associated with eczema, seborrhcea, or acne of the face. Treatment.—Any anomaly of refraction should be corrected with suit- able glasses. As the patients are not infrequently scrofulous, the internal administration of cod-liver oil, the hypophosphites, and hydriodic acid is advisable. The crusts should be removed with an alkaline solution, for ex- ample, bicarbonate of sodium, eight grains to the ounce, or by washing the edges of the lids with neutral Castile soap. In the eczematous varieties, a salve of yellow oxide of mercury, a grain to the drachm, is suitable ; in those forms due to seborrhcea or acne, sulphur ointment (three per cent.), to which resorcin in like strength may be added ; in ulcerated varieties, boric acid, aristol, and zinc ointments are useful. In cases of severe ulceration all the misplaced and stunted cilia should be removed with cilium forceps. The naso pharynx should always be examined, and if diseased vigorously treated. A form of blepharitis is produced when the pediculus pubis infests the eyebrows and eyelashes. The parasites should be destroyed by rubbing the edges of the lids and eyebrows with mercurial ointment. Tumors and Hypertrophies of the Lid.—Cystic and solid tumors may be found upon the eyelid or its margin. Along the margin warts, or papillomata, are common, and in like situation small, clear cysts are not infrequently found. The former should be cut off and their bases cauterized. The latter simply require puncture with a sharp needle. A ncevus may appear upon the lid either as a bright red spot or as an ele- vated, cavernous growth. It should be dealt with early in its existence, lest it spread into the orbit. When small, it may be destroyed with nitric acid. If cavernous, it may be excised, provided this can be done without causing deformity of the lid. In some instances its destruction with the galvano- cautery is better than excision. (Fig. 702.) Other tumors found in this situation are cutaneous horns, neuromas, lipo- mas, adenomas, and papillomas. They should be treated on the same prin- ciples that govern the management of tumors elsewhere in the body. Chalazion.—This is a small retention cyst, due to a chronic inflamma- tion of a Meibomian gland, and is sometimes known as a Meibomian cyst, or