237 LIGHTNING-STROKE. INJURIES FROM ELECTRICITY. Since the very extensive introduction of electricity in the arts, injuries from contact with heavily charged wires are of frequent occurrence. In such accidents, if the current be a strong one, death may be instantaneous, or the patient may be knocked down, become unconscious, and present severe burns at the point of contact, then regain consciousness, aud sub- sequently suffer from numbness in the extremities, traumatic neuroses, and in rare cases true paralysis. If the skin be dry at the time the current is received there will be more burning, less penetration and less shock, and less danger of death. It is generally admitted that alternating currents are more dangerous than continuous currents ; a continuous current of one thousand volts is not apt to be followed by serious consequences, whereas an alternating current of the same strength is likely to produce death. We recently saw a young man who received a severe shock while holding an iron plate which came in contact with a trolley-wire. He was knocked down, and became unconscious for a few minutes; when he recovered con- sciousness he complained of a sense of constriction in his chest and difficulty in breathing, and of numbness in his arms. These symptoms passed off in a few hours, and he experienced no subsequent evil effects. Some difference of opinion exists as to the cause of death after exposure to strong currents. Van Gieson insists that microscopic examination shows nothing characteristic except burns. The heart and respiration generally stop simultaneously. Hedley attributes death to asphyxia. The blood is usually dark-colored and fluid, rigor mortis is well marked, and the internal organs may show punctate hemorrhages. Hedley thinks that in strong alter- nating currents death is caused by destruction of the tissues, or by arrest of respiration producing asphyxia. Treatment.—Unfortunately, in many cases where strong currents have been received, death is instantaneous from arrest of cardiac and respira- tory action, but in all cases it is well to institute prompt treatment. Hed- ley mentions a case of apparent death in a man who received an alter- nating current of four thousand five hundred volts short-circuited through his body for many minutes, who showed no signs of life for thirty minutes. In this case, after the employment of Laborde's method of artificial respi- ration for some time, normal respiratory action was restored and the patient recovered. Artificial respiration should be practised in all cases, and should be continued until it is certain that the patient is dead. At the same time strychnine should be used hypodermically, and friction applied to the sur- face of the body. Lightning-Stroke.—A person struck by lightning may die instanta- neously or be more or less deprived of consciousness for a time, and may suffer from burns superficial or deep. Upon regaining consciousness the patient may complain of disturbance of vision, and may suffer from paraly- sis of the nerves of motion or sensation ; paralysis of the lower limbs is said to be more common than that of the upper limbs. Treatment.—The treatment of the stage of shock following lightning- stroke consists in the application of external heat, the employment of artifi-