1096 TREATMENT OF HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. studied, especially as a tumor of the median lobe may cause obstruction even when too small to be recognized by palpation. It is measured by directing the patient to empty the bladder and then introducing a catheter and withdrawing the remainder. Over-distention of the bladder is easily recognized, as the tumor can be felt and percussed above the pubes, even if there is no " overflow.'' Treatment.—Slight cases of prostatic hypertrophy in which there is no cystitis, the urine is clear, and the residual amount is only an ounce or two, aud especially when the patient is disturbed only once or twice during the night to evacuate the bladder, may be treated on general principles, without any local treatment. In some cases a large part of the prostatic swelling is due to congestion, and rest in bed, with the use of cold water rectal injections, or of a double-current hollow instrument passed into the rectum so as to apply the cold continuously to the prostate, will greatly diminish the size of the gland. Rest in bed, however, in these patients, as with most old persons, is a dangerous expedient, for without the stimulus of moving about their mental power is apt to decay. Little else can be done medically, for the use of drugs, such as ergot, has been found to be without effect. Catheterization.—The regular evacuation of the bladder by a catheter has long been a favorite method of treating prostatic hypertrophy, and for the majority of cases is still the best. If a case can be seen early, before cystitis has been established, and the daily regular use of the catheter insti- tuted under full antiseptic precautions, the patient may soon be placed in a very comfortable position and enabled to continue his life for many years without further annoyance than the catheterization. Particular precautions in regard to cleansing the patient's penis and urethra and sterilizing the instruments and the surgeon's hands should be taken, for fear of causing decomposition of the urine and cystitis and secondary pyelitis. The cath- eter is to be introduced every four, six, or eight hours, according to the capa- city of the bladder. If a metal instrument is employed it should have a large and long curve—the "prostatic curve." (Fig. 841.) A flexible cath- eter is to be preferred, and if there is difficulty in introducing it, a mod- erately flexible instrument, bent at the end (Mercier's sonde coude, Fig. 839), or one with a narrow neck and bulb point (Fig. 840), will often pass when the ordinary catheter will not. An ordinary soft catheter provided with a rather stiff stylet curved to fit the subpubic curve can be made to tilt up at the end, and so rise over the obstruction by withdrawing the stylet for an inch or so after the instrument has been passed to the obstruction. When over-dis- tention exists it is dangerous to evacuate the bladder completely at the first sitting, as fatal syncope has been known to occur in such cases, or acute sup- pression of urine, with uraemia. The latter may take place even without septic infection as a result of the sudden change in the conditions of pressure under which the renal epithelium and vessels have been working. About one-half of the urine, therefore, should be withdrawn, and normal salt solu- tion amounting to one-quarter or one-half of that quantity should be injected and left. This is repeated at intervals of six hours, and the bladder gradually reduced in size without being subjected to the disturbance of a sudden change