1063 TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA IN THE FEMALE. the vagina is softer and less resistant. There is deep-seated burning pain, and inspection shows at first a dry, red, glazed membrane, soon covered with a muco purulent, later a purulent, discharge, accompanied by swelling and erosion of the mucous membrane of the orifice. There may be rectal and vesical symptoms, from the proximity of the inflammation, with reflex pain in the lumbar and abdominal regions. It may become chronic and cause a granular condition of the mucous membrane. Infection of the os uteri is most frequent next to infection of the urethra. It is marked by redness and swelling of the os and the membrane lining the cervical canal, with muco purulent or purulent discharge, and redness and erosion of the surrounding mucous membrane. It has a tendency to become chronic in the Nabothian glands, and may also secondarily infect the vagina. In the chronic stage it may be impossible to separate it from the discharge of a simple endocervicitis or endometritis, although infection is still pos- sible. In invasion of the mucous membrane of the uterus and tubes, with in- volvement of the ovaries and peritoneum, there ensues a variety of symp- toms, as disorders of menstruation, backache, pain in the groins, mental depression, occasional outbursts of peritonitis, and sterility in most cases. Treatment.—In acute cases it is well to insist on rest in bed, with very light, even milk, diet, with a preliminary purge. In vulvar inflammation, hot baths and thorough cleansing with hot alkaline solutions of bicarbonate of sodium or borax may be employed, after which a dusting powder may be used, or the labia may be separated by pieces of lint saturated with lead water and laudanum. Silver nitrate is useful in the declining stage. Involvement of the vulvo-vaginal glands demands sedative applications and an incision if pus forms. The chronic induration is best remedied by ex- cision. In the urethral form the same measures that were employed in the male to render the urine alkaline and unirritating are useful; antiblennor- rhagics, also, can be used with advantage. In the later stage irrigation is of value, and in chronic cases applications of nitrate of silver are indicated. Vaginitis.—In the early stages irrigation with alkaline solutions and hot water, with, in the later stages, as the inflammation declines, solutions of bichloride of mercury 1 to 10,000 or 1 to 20,000, acetate of lead, acetate and sulphate of zinc, tampons containing subnitrate of bismuth, glycerin, and tannin, and suppositories of alum and tannic acid, are useful. Nitrate of silver in thirty grains to the ounce solution may be carefully applied to the vaginal surface also, and the application repeated at intervals of a few days if necessary. In endocervicitis the greatest care is called for to pre- vent infection of the pelvic structures. Irrigations and the application of strong solutions of nitrate of silver or chloride of iron, with gentle curette- ment, may be necessary. Gonorrhceal Salpingitis, or Pyosalpinx.—This is a frequent and se- rious complication of gonorrhoea, and may exist as an acute or as a chronic affection. Symptoms.—In the acute form the patient suffers from pain on one or both sides of the pelvis, the temperature is usually elevated, the pulse is rapid, and a rigor or chill may occur. In the chronic form there is, as a rule,