68 HYDROPHOBIA. by dulness, moroseness. and a disposition to avoid company. He becomes unable to swallow, but never shows any fear of attempting to do so ; in fact, lie tries by every means to assuage his thirst up to the end. He appears insensible to pain, and wanders about with drooping head and saliva drop- ping from his mouth until he is exhausted, when he rests awhile, and then resumes his wanderings until death ensues from exhaustion in from four to six days. He is not apt to seek victims, rather avoiding them, but bites if annoyed or thwarted. His bite on unprotected skin is dangerous, but even then about one-third of the victims escape the disease by their consti- tutional powers of resistance. If the bite is given through clothing, the latter may prevent inoculation with the saliva. Inoculation may, on the other hand, take place without a bite, by the mere contact of the saliva of a rabid animal with an open wound. Symptoms.—In man there is usually an incubation period of six weeks, but in some cases this has been as short as one day, and in others even eight months have passed before symptoms appeared. The supposed instances with a longer incubation period, lasting even for years, are uncertain. There may be prodromal symptoms, such as nervousness and pain in the scar of the wound, which is generally healed by that time. The incubation is said to be shortest in wounds on the head, longer in those of the hands, and still longer in those elsewhere. The patient feels difficulty in swallowing, be- comes anxious, decided spasm of the pharynx and glottis sets in, and gen- eral convulsions follow, with delirium, exhaustion from suffering, and death. Death is inevitable, no case of recovery being on record. Treatment.—It is said that fully two-thirds of the patients bitten by rabid dogs fail to develop the disease if the bite is thoroughly cauterized or excised, but the whole subject is so uncertain that no figures are of value. In any doubtful case, the animal which gave the bite should be kept alive in order to ascertain whether it is rabid. The treatment is to be carried out upon the lines suggested for tetanus, but it is only palliative. Pas- teur has introduced a method of protective inoculation which it is claimed would prevent rabies or enable the patient to resist it if administered during the incubation period. Under the stimulus of this discovery the num- ber of reported cases of this rare disease in France has increased immensely, a sufficient indication that all statistics upon this subject are misleading. Even with the best showing the treatment is effective only when applied before any symptoms develop, it often fails even then, and it has dangers of its own, multiple neuritis and even rabies having been observed to follow its use. A protective serum for conferring immunity against rabies has re- cently been introduced by Tizzoni and Centanni, but its usefulness in man is as yet undetermined.