165 KREOLIN. stroying the micro-organisms of pus, and is frequently employed in the sterilization of sinuses or suppurating cavities such as remain after the opening of abscesses or result from diseases of or operations upon the bones. It is injected into the sinuses and cavities by means of a glass syringe, or may be applied to open wounds in the form of a spray. Its action is shown by the escape of bubbles of gas, which cleanse suppurating surfaces or sinuses mechanically, and it should be used as long as these continue to escape. Kreolin.—Kreolin is obtained froin English coal-tar by dry distillation, and has been found to possess marked germicidal properties. It is insoluble in water, but forms an emulsion with it which possesses decided germicidal properties. It is used in an emulsion of from two to five per cent, strength in the irrigation of large wounds or cavities of the body, and has been most favorably recommended in gynaecological practice. It is employed for the same purpose as carbolic acid, and has the advantage over the latter drug that it does not irritate the skin and is practically non-toxic. It is used as a bath for the sterilization of instruments during operations, but the opacity of the emulsion makes it difficult to find the instruments. Boric Acid.—Boric acid does not possess very active antiseptic qual- ities, but is non-irritating even in saturated solutions. It is frequently em- ployed as a powder and in solutions of from five to thirty per cent, to cleanse and disinfect nvueous surfaces and large cavities. On account of its non- irritating qualities it is frequently used to wash out the bladder before operations for the removal of calculi or growths from this organ. In the dressing of wounds in which bichloride or carbolic dressings produce irri- tation of the skin, or of superficial wounds or extensive burns, an ointment of boric acid 1 part to petroleum 5 parts will be found very satisfactory. Salicylic Acid.—Salicylic acid does not have very marked antiseptic qualities, but possesses much less toxic action than carbolic acid, and is used for somewhat the same purposes. Its antiseptic power is said to be increased by the addition of boric acid, and a boro-salieylic lotion (Thiersch's solu- tion) is prepared by adding salicylic acid 1 part, boric acid 6 parts, to hot water 500 parts, making a very bland solution, which, when reduced from twenty-five to fifty per cent, in strength, can be used for irrigation of the bladder or the peritoneal cavity. Permanganate of Potassium.—Permanganate of potassium acts as an antiseptic by its rapid absorption of oxygen, and is often employed for the disinfection of foul wounds and ulcers. It is also used in solution in dis- infecting the hands before operation and for the disinfection of sponges. It is non-irritating, and may be used in quite concentrated solutions. It is usu- ally employed in the following solution : potassii permanganatis, 3i ; aqua?, f| i. One drachm of this solution to a pint of water makes a 1 to 1000 solution. Pyoktanin.—Pyoktanin, known in commerce under the name of methyl-violet, possesses decided antiseptic powers. It is said to prevent suppuration by destroying the organisms which are active in its production, they having an affinity for and being killed by aniline colors. It has been asserted that it sterilizes the pus of suppurating wounds and ulcers, and as it is practically non-poisonous it is recommended as an injection in the