!>:;<> SUBPHRENIC ABSCESS. by the enlarged glands behind the peritoneum. The disease progresses slowly, as a rule, and about one-quarter of the well-marked cases end in spontaneous recovery, especially in children. Treatment.—Medical treatment is of little avail, while surgical methods have succeeded in curing nearly three-quarters of the cases operated upon. Simple tapping in the ascitic form has occasionally resulted in a cure. Aspiration with the injection of sterilized air has been successful in a few cases, and injections of iodoform-glycerin or iodoform oil (ten per cent.) have also been tried with benefit. A simple exploratory laparotomy often results in recovery with the disappearance of the lesions. If abscesses form, they are to be opened, and if any operation is done, the original source of the disease is to be sought for and removed, if possible, the diseased portion of the intestines being resected or the Fallopian tubes removed. There can be no question as to the power which a simple exploratory laparotomy pos- sesses of curing extensive tuberculous peritonitis with universal adhesions, innumerable tubercles, and large masses of exudate, although the manner in which it acts is incomprehensible. Subphrenic Abscess.—Subphrenic abscesses are intraperitoneal in such a large number of cases that they are best considered together with peritonitis. The abscesses are usually very large, and displace the liver on the right side and the stomach and spleen on the left, forcing the diaphragm upward into the chest to the level of the fourth or third rib. They may cause a secondary empyema, either by directly perforating the diaphragm or, more commonly, by infecting the pleura through the lymphatics. If an empyema forms it may discharge into the bronchi, or if the lung be adherent to the diaphragm the subphrenic abscess may perforate directly into them. The organs of the chest are thus involved secondarily in nearly one-half of the cases. Nearly one-half of these abscesses contain gas in considerable amount, on account of their frequent communication with gas-containing organs. The most common cause of subphrenic abscesses is perforating ulcer of the stomach, but they may arise from suppurative processes in almost any of the abdominal organs, and are not infrequently secondary to appendicitis. The symptoms of these abscesses consist in hectic fever and the evidences of a large tumor succeeding the symptoms of the disease from which they originate. Diagnosis.—It is important to distinguish between subphrenic abscesses and empyema or abscess of the liver. In empyema the upper surface of the fluid will describe a curved line on the side of the chest, concave upward. In subphrenic abscess the upper limit of the fluid will be convex, the pus being contained beneath the diaphragm. If an aspirating needle is in- serted, the flow of the fluid from an empyema will be strongest during expiration, and that from a subphrenic abscess strongest during inspiration, the fluid from the latter being pressed out by the descent of the diaphragm. A similar phenomenon will be observed if gas be contained in the pleural or abscess cavity which the needle enters, as can be demonstrated by placing the end of the needle under water, or holding a lighted match near it. In some cases of subphrenic abscess the aspirating needle has an oscillating movement, owing to the movement of the diaphragm, for it must perforate