523 TUBERCULAR OSTEOMYELITIS. the abscess has opened into the joint, rapid absorption of the cartilages occurs, and the pus soon makes its way through the capsule of the joint, or the abscess may open spontaneously through the skin. After this occurs the inflammation quickly subsides, and recovery takes place often with very little impairment of the joint Fig. 446. motion, but the subsequent growth of the bone may be retarded. (Fig. 446.) Treatment.—If the case be seen early, before the abscess has opened into the joint, an incision should be made over the inflamed epiphysis with full aseptic precautions, the pus evacuated, and the wound irri- gated and drained and an antiseptic dressing applied. If, however, the joint has been involved before the case comes under the surgeon's care, he should open the joint by an incision, evacuate the pus, and, after irri- gating it, introduce drainage and apply an antiseptic or sterilized gauze dressing and immobilize the joint by a splint. It is a remarkable fact that recovery in these cases usually takes place very promptly after free drainage has been secured, with very little joint dis- Deformity following ar- abilitv resulting. rested §rowth of the radius _ , , _ . ..... „, . . . n from epiphysitis. (Ash- Tubercular Osteomyelitis.—This is an mflam- hurst) matory affection of bone resulting from infection by the bacillus tuberculosis, which may affect the long, short, and flat bones, and may occur as a primary or a secondary affection. Primary tuberculosis of bone, which implies that the tubercle bacilli have localized themselves in the bone and are not present in other parts of the body, is considered by careful observers to be an extremely rare affection. Secondary tuberculosis of bone results from tubercular infection of bone from an antecedent tubercular focus, and constitutes the majority of the cases of bone tuberculosis. Tubercular disease of bone is more frequent in males than in females after ten years of age, and is much more common in young adults than in middle life or old age. The epiphyseal region is the portion of the bone in which the localization of the bacilli is most common. Traumatism is con- sidered by many observers to play an important part in the development of bone tuberculosis, but clinical experience would seem to controvert this view, for it is extremely rare to have subjects who are suffering from tuberculosis and have sustained an injury of the bones develop tubercular affections of the same at the seat of injury ; it is probable, however, that a slight trauma- tism may act as an exciting cause of localization of the bacilli at the seat of injury, as is often the case in acute infective osteomyelitis. Heredity is gener- ally recognized as an important factor in the development of tuberculosis of bone; scarlet fever, measles, diarrhoea, typhoid fever, and pneumonia are also recognized as diseases which affect the patients' general nutrition and thus render them more susceptible to the development of bone tuberculosis. Caries of bone results from some specific irritant, which is usually tuberculous or syphilitic in character. In tubercular caries of bone the