423 CHAPTER XX. SURGERY OF THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. INJURIES OF BONE. Contusions of Bone.—Bones in exposed positions are often subjected to severe contusions; those which are deeply seated may receive similar injuries, as in the case of gunshot contusion of bone. Contusion of bone is followed by more or less swelling of the periosteum, due to extravasa- tion of blood, which may also occur in the Haversian and medullary canals; later there may develop swelling from inflammatory exudates. Simple con- tusions of bone are usually not serious injuries, unless tubercular or pyogenic organisms reach the injured part, in which case tubercular ostitis or an acute suppurative periostitis and ostitis may develop, causing extensive destruction of bone as well as marked constitutional disturbance. Treatment.—Simple contusions of bone should be treated by rest of the involved part, by the application of cold by means of an ice-bag, by com- pression to limit the amount of extravasation, and later by moist dressings, elastic compression, and massage. Under this form of treatment the tender- ness and swelling usually subside rapidly. If, however, suppuration occurs at the seat of contusion, evidenced by elevation of temperature, pain, in- crease in the swelling, and fluctuation, necrosis of the bone is apt to occur unless very prompt treatment is instituted. Every surgeon has seen suppura- tion and disastrous results follow contusions of bone, especially in tuber- culous subjects. In such cases the skin surrounding the seat of injury should be sterilized, and a free incision made through the tissues down to the bone to evacuate the pus and relieve tension ; the wound should then be irrigated with a solution of bichloride of mercury 1 to 2000, or with a solution of acetate of aluminum, and a moist dressing applied. If the incision be promptly made and the wound thoroughly sterilized, the vitality of the bone may not be impaired, and healing may take place rapidly. Incised Wounds of Bone.—Incised wounds of bone may be inflicted with sharp cutting instruments, such as axes, chisels, and swords, or by pieces of glass, and the injury may vary from an incision into the bone to its complete division, or a portion of the bone with its periosteum may be turned off as a flap. Treatment.—In the treatment of incised wounds of bone great care should be taken to render the wound aseptic, the skin being carefully ster- ilized and the wound irrigated with an antiseptic solution ; fragments of bone attached to the periosteum should be pressed back into place, and if possible a few catgut sutures introduced into the periosteum to fix them. If the bone be completely divided, the ends should be drilled, and silver