244 PLASTIC SURGERY. defects, such as harelip, it is well to postpone the operation, if possible, for a few months after birth; while in cases of cleft palate the operation should be deferred until the child is two or three years of age ; and neither operation should be undertaken if the child is in poor physical condition. Where plastic operations are undertaken for the deformity resulting from the ulceration of lupus or syphilis, the patient should have had a prolonged course of specific treatment, and the ulcer should be firmly cicatrized before the operation is performed. Where plastic operations are performed to fill a gap left by the removal of a tumor or of a portion of a bone or nerve, the flaps may be fashioned and approximated or the piece of bone or nerve introduced into the gap at the time of operation. Immediate suture of completely severed parts should also be practised even if some little time has elapsed since the injury. A suficient number of successful cases have been reported to render this procedure advisable. Fig. 170. Closing a gap by sliding flaps: a, a, relaxing incisions which gape after the flaps are brought together. Methods used in Plastic Surgery.—In closing gaps, the tissues in the immediate vicinity may be utilized by dissecting them loose and then stretching or sliding them, and, if the gap to be filled is a consider- able one, relaxing incisions (a, a) may be made, as shown in Fig. 170, the gaps of these incisions being allowed to heal by granulation. In closing a rectangular gap in the tis- sues the method shown in Fig. 171 may be employed, the flaps being loosened on the lines a, a. A trian- gular gap may be closed by loosening and sliding the tissues according to Dieffenbach's method, the gaps at the ends of the incisions being al- lowed to heal by granulation. (Fig. 172.) Another very common method of closing a gap is to employ a flap with a pedicle, which may be brought from a distance and twisted upon itself, or the flap may be slid (Fig. 173), or may be everted and covered by lateral flaps which are slid and have their raw surface in contact with the raw surface of the inverted flap, as is