463 FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. Fig. 375. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. Fractures of the bones of the forearm are injuries of frequent occurrence. Both bones may be broken at the same time, or either may be broken sep- arately. The radius, from its direct articulation with the bones of the car- pus, is much more frequently the seat of fracture than the ulna. These fractures occur at all periods of life, and are very frequently seen in children. Fractures of the bones of the forearm may result from blows directly on the fore- arm, or from falls in which the force is transmitted from the hand. Fractures of the Radius and Ulna.—These fractures may take place at any portion of the bones, but are most frequently met with below the middle of the forearm. Causes.—They are produced by direct or indirect force, and result from falls upon the hand or from the passage of heavy bodies across the forearm. When fracture of both bones of the forearm results from direct force, the bones are apt to be broken upon the same level. (Figs. 375 and 377.) When, however, the fracture occurs from indirect force, the radius is apt to give way at a higher level than the ulna. Symptoms.—The most marked signs in these fractures are deformity (Fig. 376), which may be lateral, anterior, or pos- terior, preternatural mobility, crepitus, and loss of function. Great deformity in fracture of both bones of the forearm is seen in children, in whom the fractures are often incomplete, and constitute what are known as '' greenstick'' fractures. Prognosis.—As a rule, the results following fractures of both bones of the forearm are good where the deformity has been satisfactorily reduced and the parts have FlG- 377 • been immobilized by proper dressing. Where Fracture of both bones of the forearm. Deformity in fracture of both bones of the forearm. Skiagraph of fracture of both bones of the forearm. (Dr. J. M. Stern.) the immobilization of the fragments is insufficient or the displacement is not corrected, contact of the bones or fusion of the callus may interfere with the