31 CHAPTER III. SAPREMIA, SEPTICEMIA, PYEMIA. Under the general term septicaemia we include certain conditions which are not to be considered as independent diseases, but as advanced states or sequel* of the local bacterial invasion known as inflammation. Septiccemia may be defined as that morbid condition of the system caused by the presence of bacteria or their toxic products in the blood. Practically, we limit the term septicaemia to the effects of those bacteria which cause the acute sur- gical infectious diseases, although there is no pathological difference between the condition of general infection seen in typhoid fever and that of erysip- elas, the constitutional symptoms in both cases being due to entrance into the circulation of germs or the toxic products of germs growing in the local lesions of the skin in the latter case, and of the intestine in the former. SaprsBmia.—We distinguish between the poisoning of the system due to. the absorption of the toxic products of the germs of decay and those of disease, calling the first sapraeniia, the second septicaemia, because of the important clinical difference between the two. As the ordinary sapro- phytes cannot exist in living tissues or the blood, the only manner in which they can affect the body is by the introduction of their toxic products into the circulation, producing saprsemia. If these bacteria are implanted in a clot of blood, in any necrotic tissue, or in pus anywhere in the body (all being dead matter in which they can grow), decomposition sets in, usually with the production of gas, and always with the production of ptomaines. If no pyogenic or other special bacteria are implanted with the saprophytes, there is no inflammation, but the surrounding tissues absorb these chemical substances, and the whole body is poisoned by their presence in the blood. Symptoms.—There will be an elevation of temperature, with chilly sensations,—although a true chill may not occur,—flushed skin, rapid pulse, dry, coated tongue, loaded urine, and constipation, followed by diarrhoea. This intoxication is rare in its pure form, but may develop from a putrid placenta or clots retained in the uterus after labor, or from a large imper- fectly drained abscess, the prompt recovery of the patient after removal of the cause of intoxication proving that pyogenic or pathogenic bacteria are absent or so scanty as to be of no moment. An intoxication of this kind is never found until two or three days, or even longer, after the bacterial infec- tion. It begins gradually, for the putrefactive germs must grow to a cer- tain extent before they can produce enough ptomaines to poison the system. A complete removal of the decomposing material, moreover, cuts the process short, just as evacuation of the stomach will cause the symptoms of mineral poisoning to cease as soon as the poison which has already been absorbed