1081 INTERNAL URETHROTOMY. worst symptoms of the retention. A filiform which is tightly grasped by the stricture at the time of introduction becomes loose in a few hours owing to its pressure upon the tissues about it. Thicker filiforms are introduced, or several of the same size, dilating the stricture until a fine flexible in- strument may be passed through it. The patient is kept in bed during this continuous dilatation. He is then allowed up, and larger instruments are passed daily until the stricture has reached the size of 15 or 20 French, and then the intervals may be lengthened to from three to seven days, for after this point the improvement will not be so rapid. The introduc- tion of instruments through the stricture not only stretches the narrowed part but brings about a change in the tissues, for their circulation is im- proved, the round-cell infiltration melts away, new vessels form in the fibrous tissue, and absorption is gradually produced. If false passages are made by the instruments used in dilatation, no instrument should be passed for at least a week, in order to give them an opportunity to heal. Some- times they can be avoided at the next introduction of the sound by keeping its point directed against the roof of the urethra, as they are apt to be situated upon the floor. Urethrotomy may be internal or external. Internal urethrotomy is now usually performed with an instrument which stretches the canal and holds the mucous membrane steady while a concealed knife is drawn through it, dividing it to any extent. The incision made by the knife is very shallow, except where the tension of the parts across the instrument is very great. Otis's dilating urethrotome is the in- strument generally preferred. (Fig. 833.) When the stricture has been located with the bulbous bougie, the instrument is passed through it and Fig. 833. The Otis urethrotome. screwed up until the desired degree of dilatation is obtained, as shown on the dial, or as near that as the tension of the parts will allow, and the knife drawn once through the stricture and then pushed back again. If the re- cxuired size of the urethra has not been obtained at the first attempt, a second cut is made in the same manner. The instrument is then partially closed, rotated on its long axis half-way in order to free the branches from the edges of the divided mucous membrane, and withdrawn. Smart hem- orrhage may follow this procedure, but it is usually soon arrested by press- ure. If it be troublesome, a stout rubber catheter should be inserted and a bandage applied to the penis. A sound of the full size should be passed twenty-four or forty-eight hours after the operation, and in ordinary cases it will be unnecessary to pass it again for five or six days. Our own practice is to pass the sound once a week after an operation of this nature unless