180 SPICA BANDAGE OF THE SHOULDER. Figure-of-eight bandage of the elbow. reversed turns until the elbow is reached, which may be covered in with spiral reversed turns or with figure-of-eight turns of the elbow. After covering in the elbow, the bandage is continued up the arm with spiral reversed turns. (Fig. 109.) Figure-of-Eight Bandage of the Elbow.—In applying this band- age the initial extremity of the roller is placed upon the elbow, and two or three circular turns are made FlG- li0- around the joint. The bandage is next carried to a point a little above the joint, and a circular turn is made around the arm. It is then conducted obliquely across the flexure of the joint to the upper part of the forearm, where a circular turn is made. It is next carried across the flex- ure of the joint, crossing the pre- vious turn to the arm. These oblique and circular turns are re- peated, descending from the arm and ascending from the forearm, until the joint is covered in. The method of applying the ascending and descending turns, the primary turns around the elbow being omitted, is shown in Fig. 110. Spica Bandage of the Shoulder.—This may be applied as an ascending or a descending spica bandage. The ascending spica bandage is applied by placing the initial extremity of the roller obliquely upon the outer surface of the arm opposite the axillary fold and fixing it by one or two circular turns : if applied to the right shoulder-joint the bandage is carried across the front of the chest to the axilla of the opposite side, and is conducted around the back of the chest to the point of starting upon the arm ; the roller should then be carried around the arm and up over the shoulder, across the front of the chest, through the opposite axilla, over the posterior sur- face of the chest to the point of starting. These ascending turns, each overlapping the precediug one about two-thirds, should be applied until the shoul- der is covered in, when the extremity of the bandage should be secured by a pin at the point of ending. The turns should be made in such a manner that the spica turns shall keep as nearly as possible in the median line of the shoulder. (Fig. 111.) Velpeau's Bandage.—Before applying this bandage the patient should place the fingers of the hand of the affected side upon the opposite shoulder, the arm resting against the chest; the initial extremity of the bandage Fig. 111. hi':: :.- A Spica bandage of the shoulder.