FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 490 FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. Displacement of the fragments in frac- ture of the patella. (Agnew.) Fig. 414. Fractures of the patella are rarely seen in patients under twenty years, and are not common after fifty years of age. Fractures of this bone may be simple, compound, or comminuted, and result from direct violence and muscular action. The direction of the fracture may be transverse, vertical, or oblique. Symptoms.—The symptoms of this injury are pain, loss of power of extending the leg, a considerable amount of swelling about the knee-joint, and an upward displace- ment of the upper fragment by the action of the quadratus muscle : often, also, a marked depression can be felt with the finger between the fragments. (Fig. 413.) Hutchinson is of the opinion that displacement of the fragments is as much due to the pressure of the effusion into the knee-joint as to muscular action. The separation of the fragments may vary from a fraction of an inch to several inches. (Fig. 414.) Patients suffering from fracture of the patella are not always incapacitated from using the limb. Crepitus can usually be obtained by drawing the upper fragment downward in contact with the lower fragment and making lateral motion. Marked swell- ing of the knee occurs rapidly after this fracture, as the joint becomes distended with synovial fluid and blood. Comminuted fractures of the patella usually result from force directly applied to the front of the knee, as from falls, or from the kicks of horses. Prognosis.—In fracture of the patella union is usually ligamentous, although cases have been recorded in which bony union has resulted. The bond of union may be short or long; a ligamentous bond of three or four inches has been noted. The function of the limb is generally more or less impaired as the result of this fracture. Eigidity of the joint is often marked and may persist, and union by a long fibrous band may interfere seriously with the extension of the leg. In other cases the patient may have a fair func- tional result in spite of union by a long fibrous band. In most cases rigidity of the joint or weakness of the knee is present. The results as regards function depend largely upon the extent of the rupture of the tendinous expansion of the quadriceps, the amount of effusion of blood into the joint, and the interposition of the capsular tissues between the fragments. Treatment.—The limb should be placed in the extended position, and a roller bandage applied from the toes to a point just below the knee joint. A posterior wooden padded splint, extending from the middle of the thigh to the middle of the leg, should then be placed under the limb, and a com- press placed just above the upper fragment, and over this should be applied, obliquely, one or two straps of adhesive or rubber plaster, which are carried downward and attached to the posterior splint some distance below the Deformity in fracture of the patella.