INFILTRATION ANAESTHESIA. 251 Cocaine-Anaesthesia is useful in minor surgical operations, such as the amputation of fingers or toes, circumcision, opening of abscesses, or removal of superficial tumors, and its utility is most marked in operations upon the eye and those upon the mucous membranes of the nose, throat, vagina, and urethra. Although major operations, such as removal of the breast, and amputations of the leg, arm, or thigh, have been performed under cocaine anaesthesia, we do not think its use is to be recommended in such cases. Its employment in minor operations upon children will not be found so satisfactory as general anaesthesia, for, in spite of the fact that the part may be rendered anaesthetic, they experience so much fright that it is impos- sible to restrain their movements. Eucain Hydrochlorate.—This drug, which produces local anaesthesia in the same manner as cocaine hydrochlorate, has recently been employed. It is used as a local application to raucous surfaces and hypodermically in the deeper tissues to produce local anaesthesia. It possesses the advantage over cocaine that it can be used in much larger quantities, as it is apparently free from toxic action. Kiessel states that two grammes (thirty grains) can be injected without the production of toxic symptoms. It is conveniently used in solutions of from two to ten per cent. Infiltration Anaesthesia.—This method of producing local anaesthe- sia has recently been described and employed by Schleieh. Liebreich has shown that the injection of water into the tissues in such a manner as to produce an artificial oedema will produce a temporary local anaesthesia. Schleieh found that by combining a small amount of cocaine and morphine with a weak salt solution the period of anaesthesia was prolonged. The anaesthesia is produced in this method by the artificial ischaemia established by the tension and pressure to which the tissues are subjected, and by the direct action of the injected drugs upon the nerves. In employing this form of anaesthesia a weak solution of cocaine, morphine, and common salt is introduced into the tissues by means of a hypodermic syringe. The solu- tion usually employed is made as follows : cocain. hydrochlor., gr. iss ; mor- phinae sulph., gr. } ; sodii chloridi, gr. iij ; aquae, fgiij, Siij. M. The skin and the syringe should be sterilized, and the surface which is to be punctured by the needle may be rendered insensitive by the use of a spray of ether or ethyl chloride. The needle should be introduced into the skin and the fluid injected at different parts until wheals are raised. The injections should then be made into the deeper parts, until the whole area of tissue which is to be operated upon is thoroughly infiltrated with the solution. The resulting anaesthesia lasts for fifteen or twenty minutes. Infiltration anaesthesia is employed in minor surgical procedures, such as the opening of abscesses, amputation of fingers, and removal of tumors, and it has also been employed satisfactorily in major surgical operations, such as herniotomy and amputations of the limbs. Guaiacol may be used externally as an analgesic in neuralgia or in epididymitis, the part being painted with a solution of guaiacol, gr. xv, alcohol, fjv. In epididymitis it is preferable to use an ointment of five parts of guaiacol to thirty parts of vaseline. It may also be used hypo-