219 CONTUSED WOUNDS. in healing may be saved and often excessive contraction of neighboring parts avoided by making use of some of the various methods of skin-grafting. (See pages 245, 246.) Contused Wounds.—A contused wound is one in which the edges of the wound and the surrounding tissues have been bruised or crushed, the subcutaneous tissues often being severely damaged far beyond the area of the skin wound. Contused and lacerated wounds have many features in common and often result from the same causes. The best examples of con- tused wounds are those resulting from heavy bodies passing over parts, where the skin wound is insignificant, but the subcutaneous tissues are often com- pletely pulpified and the bones comminuted. Contused wounds if extensive and severe are usually accompanied by marked shock. External bleeding, as a rule, is not excessive, although there may be extensive subcutaneous hemorrhage. Sloughing and gangrene may occur, complications which in wounds of the extremities may demand amputation. Treatment.—In a contused wound where there is great distention of the parts from effused blood and serum, and the wound is small, it is often advisable to enlarge it, and if the collection is below the deep fascia, to divide this also to the full extent of the external wound, to give exit to the effused fluids. Incisions may also be made at other parts to accomplish the same object. This may so diminish the tension of the parts that gangrene will be averted. Before making such iueisions the parts should be thoroughly sterilized. After the incision has been made, copious moist antiseptic dressings should he applied, either bichloride or acetate of aluminum gauze being employed, these dressings being removed as they become soaked with discharges from the wound. Continuous antiseptic irrigation may also be employed in the treatment of contused wounds, as described in the treatment of lacerated wounds. The conditions presented by contused wounds are so similar to those in lacerated wounds that the same methods of treatment may be adopted, and the same caution should be observed not to attempt to approximate the edges of the wounds by means of sutures. Brush-Burn.—This is a form of superficial contused wound which is produced by friction applied to the surface of the body. The appearance of a well-marked brush-burn is very similar to that of a burn or scald after the cuticle has separated. This form of injury often occurs from a rope being rapidly drawn through the closed hands, or from parts of the body coming in contact with rapidly moving belting or machinery, or from the body being dragged violently over a rough surface. This injury may be superficial and involve only the external layer of the skin, or may involve the whole thickness of the skin. Treatment.—If the brush-burn is superficial, the surface should be irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution and dusted with powdered boric acid, and a sterilized gauze dressing should be applied. If, how- ever, the injury involves the true skin, sloughs are apt to form, and here the dressings should consist of gauze which has been moistened in carbolic or boric or acetate of aluminum solution, which should be applied until