MASTOID DISEASE. 841 one nostril while the other nostril is closed. The patient takes a mouthful of water and at a word from the surgeon swallows it, when the latter com- presses the gum hag, forcing the air into the Eustachian tubes. This inflation should be repeated two or three times a week. Various methods of auto- inflation, such as blowing with the mouth and nose closed, are also prac- tised, but are not, as a rule, to be recommended unless done under the direction of the surgeon. Pneumatic massage with the Siegle speculum or with the finger-tip is often very useful in improving hearing and lessening tinnitus. Chronic Otorrhcea, or Otitis Media Purulenta Chronica.—This is a very common and dangerous affection, in which a muco purulent discharge escapes from the ear or ears through a perforation in the membrana tympani; the ossicles, the bony walls of the tympanic cavity, and the mastoid cells may become necrosed, and polypi are generally present, growing from the walls of the tympanic cavity or the membrana tympani. The affection often occurs in children as a sequel of scarlet fever or measles. A patient suffer- ing from chronic purulent otitis may develop cerebral abscess, phlebitis, thrombosis of the lateral or petrosal sinuses, or general pyaemia. So fully is the danger of this condition recognized that no life-insurance company will accept as a risk a person who presents a running ear. Symptoms.—The most marked symptoms of chronic purulent otitis are a chronic muco-purulent and offensive discharge, and pain at times if the discharge is retained, with more or less impairment of hearing. Treatment.—The treatment of this affection consists, first, in keeping the cavity of the ear clean by the daily use of injections of warm water or warm boric solution, or by carefully cleansing the ear with absorbent cotton on an applicator, and the subsequent injection of a solution of car- bolic acid 1 to 40, or bichloride of mercury 1 to 2000. The ear after being carefully dried should be treated by insufflations of boric acid finely powdered, or of a powder of aristol and boric acid. This is especially useful if the perforation in the tympanic membrane is a large one. The occasional application of a ten- to thirty-grain solution of nitrate of silver by means of a cotton applicator is also of advantage. If granulations or polypi are present, these should be diminished under the above treatment, but if they are not they should be removed by a snare, or may be destroyed by the careful application of a little chromic acid applied by means of a probe. If it is found that the ossicles or the bony walls of the tympanic cavity are necrosed, excision of the ossicles is demanded, as well as the removal of the surrounding necrosed bone. These operations are extremely delicate, and for their description the reader is referred to special articles upon Aural Surgery. The sequel* of chronic purulent otitis media, such as thrombosis of the petrosal or lateral sinuses, and cerebral or cerebellar abscess, are considered under Diseases of the Head, pages 717 and 718. Mastoid Disease.—Periostitis of the external surface of the mastoid may result from acute or chronic inflammation of the external auditory canal or middle ear, especially deep furuncles, but inflammation of the mastoid cells, resulting in caries or necrosis of the bone, usually follows chronic or acute purulent inflammation of the middle ear, and may occur at