433 FRACTURE DRESSINGS. than at a later period, when marked swelling or inflammation is present at the seat of fracture. When the reduction of the fracture has been accom- plished, the fragments are retained in position by the application of various splints or dressings. Materials and Appliances used in the Dressing of Frac- tures.—The Fracture-Bed.—Many ingenious and complicated forms of fracture-bed have been devised and used, but they are now not much em- ployed. Iu the treatment of fractures of the trunk or of the lower extrem- ity it will be found most convenient to use a single bed, not over thirty-two to thirty-six inches in width, with a firm hair mattress. It is not necessary that this be perforated, as a bed-pan can usually be slipped under the pa- tient without difficulty. An ordinary shallow tin plate, covered with a piece of old muslin, to receive the fecal evacuations, may be substituted for the bed-pan, and will be found in many instances more satisfactory, especially in the case of children. Splints.—After the reduction of the fragments in cases of fracture they are usually retained in position until union has occurred by the use of splints held in position by means of bandages or strips of muslin. Splints may be made of wood, metal, binders' board, leather, felt, paper, and plaster of Paris. Wooden Splints.—The simplest and cheapest splints are made from wood: white pine, willow, and poplar are the best materials for their con- struction, being sufficiently strong and at the same time light. These splints are made from one-eighth to one-quarter of an inch in thickness, and may be employed in the form of straight or angular splints. Wooden splints before being applied should be well padded with cotton, wool, oakum, or hair. We do not think the curved wooden splints sold by the instrument- makers are to be recommended, as a rule, for unless the surgeon has a large number to select from it is rarely that a splint can be obtained to fit accu- rately any individual case. Metallic Splints. —Splints constructed of tin or wire are sometimes used in the treatment of fractures, and if carefully fitted and padded may serve a useful purpose. Binders' board or pasteboard is an excellent material from which to construct splints. It is first soaked in boiling water, and when sufficiently soft is padded with cotton or a layer of lint and moulded to the Fig. 332. part. (Fig. 332. ) It may be se- cured in position by a bandage. As it becomes dry it hardens and retains the shape into which it was moulded. Undressed leather is also Binders' board splint, a good material from which to construct splints, and is applied by first soaking the leather in hot water, and, after padding it with cotton or lint, moulding it to the part and retain- ing it in position by a bandage ; or it may be moulded upon a plaster cast taken from the part. Felt, made from wool saturated with shellac and pressed into sheets, is also a satisfactory material from which to construct splints. It is prepared 28