DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 562 with the shoulders held backward by a figure-of-eight bandage, or the patient may be placed in bed in the recumbent posture and a compress held over the replaced end of the bone by means of a bandage or strips of adhesive plaster. When the patient is allowed to get about, to prevent a reproduc- tion of the deformity the arm should be fixed to the side of the body by means of a Velpeau's bandage, fixation dressings being maintained in this dislocation for six or eight weeks, until adhesions have occurred at the seat of injury. In spite of the most careful treatment, more or less permanent deformity is often unavoidable. Notwithstanding this, however, the func- tional results obtained are usually satisfactory. Backward Dislocation.—This may be produced by force applied di- rectly to the anterior portion of the clavicle, near the sternal extremity, or indirectly by force received upon the posterior and outer aspects of the shoulder; the displaced end of the clavicle may occupy a position below and behind the top of the sternum or slightly above it. Symptoms.—A prominence may be felt just behind or above the top of the sternum; the shoulder drops forward and inward, and the displaced bone may press upon the trachea or oesophagus and cause dyspnoea or dysphagia. Treatment.— Eeduction is effected by standing behind the patient and drawing the shoul- ders upward and backward, when the bone will slip forward into its normal position. After the deformity has been reduced a compress should be placed over the articulation and held in position by adhesive straps, and the patient should be placed in bed upon a firm mattress; if, however, the patient cannot stay in bed, it is well to apply a compress and a posterior figure-of- eight bandage to the shoulders, to draw them backward so as to prevent recurrence of the displacement. The dressings should be retained from six to eight weeks. Dislocation Upward.—This dislocation is a rare one, and usually re- sults from indirect force applied to the shoulder or the acromial end of the clavicle. Symptoms.—The most marked symptoms are a prominence above the top of the sternum (Fig. 482), depression of the shoulder, pain, and tenseness of the sternal origin of the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle, which is stretched over the end of the displaced bone. Treatment.— In reducing this displacement the arm should be drawn upward and outward, while the head of the clavicle is pressed downward into its articular cavity. A com- press should be applied over the seat of injury and fastened in position by a roller bandage or by adhesive straps. If it is found impossible to maintain the reduction, the displaced bone should be exposed by an incision and secured in its normal position by strong wire sutures. Upward dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle (Agnew.)