934 CHOLELITHIASIS. results, such as contraction of the gall-bladder, with the formation of strong adhesions to the surrounding parts, cicatricial stricture of the ducts, and the production of gall-stones, may demand operation. Cholelithiasis.—Gall-stones almost invariably form in the gall-bladder, but in rare cases they may form in the ducts or in the biliary passages of the liver. Their production is the result of obstruction of the biliary passages and inflammation of their mucous membrane, cholesterin and bile-pigment being deposited from the stagnant bile. They vary in size from minute gravel to stones two or three inches in diameter. The common bile-duct will allow the passage of a stone the size of a hazel-nut, and if larger stones than these are passed in the stools they indicate that an unnatural communi- cation has formed between the intestine and the gall-bladder. Gall-stones are usually multiple and facetted on the sides where they are pressed to- gether. They often cause inflammation of the gall-bladder and ducts, and sometimes ulcers, which may perforate and result in intraperitoneal abscesses or abscesses of the liver. Symptoms.—Gall-stones may exist without symptoms, for they are found in from three to ten per cent, of all cadavers at autopsy, in the great majority of cases having given no symptoms. When they become impacted in the gall-ducts, however, they cause sharp colicky pain in the right side, shooting backward under the scapula, lasting from a few minutes to several hours or days, and sometimes followed by jaundice or by signs of peritoneal inflammation in the neighborhood of the gall-bladder. Jaundice occurs only when impaction takes place in the common duct, and, as the cystic duct is smaller than the common, any stone which can pass the cystic duct should not cause jaundice; but stones sometimes lie in the common duct and increase in size until they are too large to pass into the intestine, when they may cause typical biliary colic and jaundice. The gall-bladder is very frequently not to be felt, and probably it is not distended in all cases. The attack of colic may terminate within a few hours, but there is a liability to a repetition at irregular intervals, and the attacks may be so frequent that the patient is worn out with pain. The stone may slip back into the blad- der from the cystic duct, or it may make its way into the bowel and be found in the stool. In rare cases the stone remains impacted, blocking the cystic or the common duct completely. When the cystic duct is obstructed the gall-bladder may distend slowly to a large size, being filled with a clear serous fluid of its own secretion, no bile entering it. This condition is called hydrops of the bladder, unless the fluid has become purulent, when it is known as empyema. The gall-bladder may also be distended if the cystic duct is obliterated by a cicatricial stricture or tumor. As the gall-bladder enlarges it may draw down a tongue-like lobe of liver-tissue. If the gall- stone remains impacted in the common duct, it may perforate its wall and cause a local abscess, or if adhesions have formed with the intestine the stone may perforate directly into the bowel, and if the stone is very large it may then give rise to intestinal obstruction. The signs of perforation of the bladder and ducts are those of localized peritonitis—pain, tenderness, fever, and the formation of a tumor by adhesions and pus. Pyaemia and metastatic abscesses are also found as a result of cholecystitis.