544 EXOSTOSIS. Fin. 4(18. Ostitis Deformans.—This disease of bone was first described by Paget, and begins in middle life or later ; it is characterized by a change in the size, shape, and direction of the diseased bones, the general health during the development of the osseous lesions being only slightly affected. The disease commonly affects the long bones of the lower extremity or the skull first, but in time the bones of the spine, ribs, pelvis, and upper extremity are involved. The boues become enlarged and softened, gradually present- ing marked curving and deformity. The disease apparently starts as a rarefying ostitis, in which the normal compact tissue be- comes porous and reticulated, this thickening of the compact tissue involving the walls of the shaft as well as those of the articular ends of the bone. New bone is formed beneath the periosteum, and in time undergoes hypertrophic and sclerotic changes. In addition to the deformity and change in the thickness of the bone, there is increase in length or hypertrophy. (Fig. 468.) Symptoms.—Patients suffering from this disease sometimes complain of rheumatic pain in the lower limbs and spine, but the general health is usually very little affected. The decrease of stature, stooping figure, and apparent increase of length in the arms when in the erect position usually attract attention. Bowing of the spine and loss of movement of the ribs in respiratory action are marked when the spine is involved; in such cases the breathing is largely diaphragmatic. The disease does not apparently shorten life; one of Paget's original cases lived to be seventy years of age. We have had under observation Ashhurst's case of ostitis deformans for more than ten years, and, aside from increased deformity and lessened ability to take exercise, the patient's condition is not very different from what it was at the time we first saw him. Exostosis.—This condition consists in a local hypertrophy of bone, which usually occurs in the region of the epiphyses of the long bones, but also is observed in connection with the bones of the cranium and face. These growths are often observed at the inner surface of the femur just above the condyle, over the head of the tibia (Fig. 469), and about the phalanges of the fingers and toes. Ungual exostosis of the toes is a not un- common affection. (Fig. 470.) These growths are composed of cancellated tissue covered by a thin layer of compact tissue. Their supposed origin from adjacent bursa? has given them the name of exostosis bursata, but the bursa? which form over these growths are often found to be entirely unconnected with adjacent bursa?, and are of the nature of the adventitious bursa? ob- served in other locations. The disease seems to possess no hereditary ten- dency, and there is no evidence that it depends upon syphilis or rheumatism, but it may have some connection with rachitis, representing an increased bone production after recovery from that disease. The affection is often multiple, and if the growths are largely developed the motion of adjacent joints may be markedly interfered with. Ostitis deformans. (Ashhurst.)