989 TREATMENT OF HERNIA. at a point near the trochanter of the same side. In very large and old her- nias, particularly the direct form, or those which were originally oblique and have practically become direct, a large triangular pad is sometimes necessary, the lower apex being carried down between the scrotum and the thigh, and being continuous with the perineal strap. This form is called the rat-tailed pad, and while it is useful for hernise of this kind it should not be employed in others, for it applies the pressure in the wrong place. It is easier to fit a double truss than a single one, and if, with a hernia on one side, the other side is weak, the patient should Wear the double truss, preferably that form with pads at each end of a spring which encircles the body behind, and a strap connecting the ends in front. Umbilical hernia in infants can be treated by a flat cork pad placed over the navel and held by adhesive straps, for no bandage will hold it properly. In older children and in adults a similar pad may be secured in the centre of a strong abdominal belt or of a strong spring passing around the body and resting on two wide pads on each side of the spine. As this hernia is apt to occur in very stout individuals, the level of the ring will be very much deeper than that of the abdominal surface, and a conical pad may be necessary in order to exercise proper pressure, but the apex of the pad should be so much larger than the ring that it cannot enter and stretch the latter. The various kinds of truss described are suitable for reducible hernia. In the irreducible varieties it is almost impossible to apply an efficient pad, but sometimes a hollow cup-shaped pad may be used, being made to fit a cast taken of the irreducible part of the tumor, and this may be held in place by a spring or an abdominal belt. It will be found, however, that patients with irreducible scrotal or labial hernia are generally most com- fortable with a cotton bag made of proper size to hold the hernia and exercise slight pressure upon it, and that those with irreducible ventral or umbilical hernia prefer a simple body bandage. When an attempt is to be made to cure a hernia by a truss, the patient should have a lighter truss to wear at night, and should never go without the instrument, even when in the bath. In any case the patient should be instructed how to adjust the truss, and should be told to remove it at once if he feels the rupture come down behind it, for the pressure on the descended rupture is liable to do damage. Injections into the Tissues of the Canal.—From time to time various other methods of treating hernia have been recommended, such as the injec- tion of astringent applications along the canal or into the surrounding tissue, the best known and most used of these being absolute alcohol and a tannic acid solution. In making these injections the finger is placed in the canal as a guide, the needle is then made to pass along just outside of the fibrous tissues forming the canal, and the injection is made at this place. While cures can undoubtedly be produced in this way, the method is uncertain, and its application adds very much to the difficulty of any subsequent oper- ation on the parts, whether the operation be practised on account of strangu- lation or to obtain a radical cure. If the fullest asepsis is not maintained, suppuration will follow the injection, and, unless the needle is accurately