ABSCESS OF THE PROSTATE. 1155 may take place under favorable conditions. If the disease is not near the urethra, it may run an absolutely latent course, giving no symptoms until it is very far advanced or until the testicle or the bladder is involved. If the lesions are near the urethra, it will begin with symptoms like those of an ordinary catarrhal prostatitis, but, as a rule, with less hyperesthesia. There may be threads of mucus and tubercle bacilli in the urine. Micturi- tion may be impeded by the swelling, especially if an abscess forms. Bectal examination reveals a slightly enlarged prostate with small hard nodules scattered through it, but the outlines of the gland may be rendered indis- tinct by an accompanying periprostatitis. The seminal vesicles will also be found to be thickened and nodular in many cases. When the deposits break down the prostate feels soft, and it may be entirely converted into a sac of pus. Pus may also form around the gland and make its way outward through the triangular ligament to the perineum, into the urethra, or into the rectum. Sinuses remain when the pus has been discharged. Treatment.—When pus has formed it must be evacuated by incision; the remains of the prostate should be removed with a sharp curette if possible. The prostate may be exposed by a horseshoe-shaped incision, the anterior curve crossing the median line just behind the bulb of the urethra, and the ends running down on the sides of the sphincter ani so that that muscle will be raised in the flap. As the incision is deepened, the bulb of the urethra is drawn forward and the flap dissected backward until the capsule of the prostate is reached. The capsule may be incised and the disorganized gland removed by the curette and the finger. The urethra is often found dissected out, the remainder of the prostate having broken down into pus, and urine is discharged through the wound at once, or after a short interval, but the urinary fistula generally closes as the cavity contracts. The wound should be packed, and if the urethra is opened a catheter is introduced and left in the bladder for two or three days. Abscess of the Prostate.—Suppurative inflammation of the prostate may occur in the shape of small follicular abscesses or extensive cavities in the substance of the gland, or the inflammation may extend beyond the cap- sule and produce an abscess outside the gland. These abscesses may have an acute course when they are due to pyogenic infection resulting from stricture, severe cystitis, or infection by unclean instruments. On the other hand, they may be slow and chronic when they occur in the course of tubercular disease. In the acute form there will be intense pain and a feel- ing of weight and throbbing in the perineum, perhaps associated with vesi- cal and rectal tenesmus, and even with retention of urine. There may be a chill, and the patient may become profoundly septic. The abscesses most frequently burst into the urethra, but often make their way into the peri- neum, and may also discharge into the rectum. The gland, examined per rectum, will be found distended and very tender, and in the later stages a fluctuating swelling will be present. Treatment.—Hot applications to the perineum and hypogastrium and hot rectal injections afford the best method of treatment in the early stages, but as soon as the presence of pus is probable an incision should be made. The pus may be reached by an incision in the perineum in the middle