MENSTRUAL DISTURBANCES. 1164 fibroids are usually movable, although the extraperitoneal tumors may be fixed by folds of the broad ligament. An extraperitoneal hematocele will form a rather doughy tumor, surrounding the uterus so as to fix it com- pletely, usually being more marked on one side of the pelvis than on the other. An intraperitoneal hematocele will be bilateral, will fill Douglas's cul-de-sac, and may extend high enough to be felt by the hand on the abdo- men. The tumor will give one the impression of something poured into the pelvis and solidified there, rather than of a distinct mass. Similar masses, however, are produced by the exudate of local peritonitis. When a tumor lies in Douglas's cul-de-sac the fingers can often be passed between it and the uterus, but when the mass has developed in the broad ligament and extended behind the uterus by detaching the peritoneum, this will be impossible. Displacements of the uterus are readily recognized, as a rule, by this examination, and the position of the fundus located; but if there is any doubt, as is often the case when a tumor of about the same size lies close to the uterus (Fig. 876), the passage of the uterine probe will point out the position of the fundus. The mobility of the uterus must be carefully studied in each case, and if it is fixed the fixation may be due to adhesions, the result of recent or former inflam- mation, or to the presence of a tumor or of blood-clot. When malignant disease attacks the uterus that organ is usually enlarged, and in the latter stages becomes fixed in the pelvis by the spread of the disease through the cellu- lar tissue about the organ. Tumors of the uterus and ovary will be considered later. Tumor on posterior wail of uterus. Tumors of the vagina are readily felt by the finger, and it can be ascertained whether they grow from the vaginal wall or from the cervix, or protrude through the cervical canal into the vagina as a polypoid growth. When abscesses form in the neighborhood of the vagina, fluctuation can sometimes be made out distinctly with the finger. In floating kidney or spleen the organ may fall into Douglas's cul-de-sac, but can usually be returned to its place and its true nature recognized. MENSTRUAL DISTURBANCES. In the symptomatology of the diseases of the female genitals disturbances of the menstrual function are very common. Absence of the menses, or amenorrhcea, may be due to malformation of the organs, but is most fre- quently the result of anaemia, especially in tuberculosis. In the latter case it is to be considered as a conservative symptom, and attention should be directed to the general condition, without making any attempt to bring on the interrupted function, which will be re-established if the patient's health is sufficiently restored to provide the necessary blood. Dysmenorrhea, or painful menstruation, may be due to mechanical causes, such as an obstruc- tion in the uterine canal by stricture, an abnormally small os, acute flexion, or merely the swelling of inflammation. In such cases the pain is usually