1007 WARTS OF THE ANUS. secured by laxatives. The first movement is generally painless, and at the end of a few days the ulcer is usually healed. Ball, after administering an anaesthetic, dilates the anus and makes a V-shaped incision, removing the torn-down anal valve. Vegetations or Warts of the Anus—These are papillary over- growths, similar in structure to warts observed in other parts of the body, and are covered with squamous epithelium. They occur in both adults and children, and often attain great size. From their situation they are com- pressed between the nates, become moist, and are accompanied with a cer- tain amount of offensive discharge. Treatment.—If the parts can be kept dry, the growths shrink and may disappear. In growths of moderate size, dusting them with a powder composed of oxide of zinc and lyeopodiuin, equal parts, will often be followed by their rapid disappearance. The daily application of an ointment of salicylic acid, 3ss, lanolin, 3i, will also cause their removal. When the growths are large, the application of the solid stick of nitrate of silver, or of a saturated solution of chromic acid, may be employed with advantage, or they may be removed with a knife, curette, or scissors, or by the use of the actual cautery. The only objection to their removal by the former means is the hemorrhage which follows: this, how- ever, can easily be controlled by the use of a compress or by the cautery. Syphilitic Affections of the Anus.—These consist in the presence of mucous patches, moist papules, and condylomata, which occur both in acquired and in inherited syphilis. Allinghani has called attention to the presence of numerous tracks or fissures in the mucous membrane of the anus in children suffering from hereditary syphilis. Condylomatous growths ap- pear frequently upon previously existing papules or mucous patches, and are accompanied by a very fetid discharge. These growths are to be dis- tinguished from the simple form of vegetations which is observed in the anal region. Treatment.—The treatment of syphilitic lesions of the anus should be both constitutional and local. The constitutional treatment con- sists in the administration of mercury or of iodide of potassium, or of both combined. The local treatment consists in touching them with acid nitrate of mercury, or in dusting them with a powder composed of equal parts of calomel and oxide of zinc. Under these methods of treatment they usually disappear rapidly. Epithelioma of the Anus.—This affection may have its origin in the mucous membrane or in the skin of the anus, or these structures may be involved by an extension of the disease from the rectum. Primary epithe- lioma of the anus is of the squamous type, and is comparatively rare. Epi- thelioma of the anus is often confounded with. hemorrhoids, which mistake should not occur if a careful examination of the part is made. Treat- ment.—If the disease is confined to the mucous membrane and skin of the anus, the diseased tissue should be freely excised and the mucous membrane brought down and sutured to the edges of the skin. In cases in which the anus is involved in the growth by extension of a similar growth from the rectum, no local operation can be employed with advantage, but, if the rectum is not too extensively involved, excision of the rectal growth with the anal growth should be practised.