DISLOCATIONS OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 596 cated by a fracture of the lower portion of the tibia, it is better to excise a portion of the bone before attempting reduction, which facilitates the reduc- tion and at the same time relieves tension and favors free drainage. We have seen the most satisfactory results in these cases follow partial excision. If the wound is an extensive one, a few sutures may be introduced at each extremity of the wound, but, as the greatest safety is in free drainage, it is wise to allow the wound practically to remain an open one. A steril- ized or antiseptic gauze dressing should next be applied to the wound, and over this a number of layers of sterilized or bichloride cotton. If there is much difficulty in reducing the deformity, or if there is a tendency to redisplacement after reduction, by the muscles acting through the tendo Achillis, this tendon may be divided subcutaneously. After applying a gauze dressing, lateral splints of binders' board, moulded to the foot and leg, holding the foot at a right angle to the leg, should be applied, the foot and leg being placed in a fracture-box. An equally satisfactory dressing consists in the application of a plaster of Paris bandage including the foot and leg and extending a little distance above the knee. At the end of three or four days the splints should be removed, or the plaster of Paris bandage should be fenestrated and the wound inspected, and if it has remained asep- tic the drainage-tube may be removed and the dressing reapplied. If sup- puration occurs, the drainage-tube should be allowed to remain in place for some time, and.irrigation and more frequent dressings of the wound will be required. In cases in which the wound runs an aseptic course and healing takes place promptly, very good functional results may be expected. Where, however, suppuration occurs, the time of repair is very much prolonged, and more or less fixation of the ankle-joint is apt to result, which may be permanent. DISLOCATION OF THE ASTRAGALUS. The astragalus may be dislocated forward, backward, or laterally, or rotated on its axis. of the Astragalus.—This may be com- plete or incomplete, and usually results from a fall from a height upon the foot. In this dislocation there is an irregular- shaped prominence in front of the ankle, the foot is usually inverted, and the external malleolus is prominent. (Fig. 538.) Treat- ment.—In reducing this dislocation the leg should be flexed upon the thigh, to relax the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, extension and counter-extension should be made from the foot and leg, and the surgeon should en- deavor by manipulation to press the astraga- lus back into its normal position ; if this can- not be accomplished, it may be necessary to divide the tendo Achillis, which will often facilitate the reduction of the displaced bone. If reduction cannot be accom- plished by these means, the displaced bone should be exposed by incision and Forward Dislocation Fig. 538. Forward and outward dislocation of the astragalus.