50 MALIGNANT (EDEMA. general support of the powers of resistance seems to be of more importance than any local treatment yet devised. Even in the mild facial form of ery- sipelas the patient should at ouce be confined to his room, or even to bed, in order to secure perfect rest, while the most nourishing and easily digestible food, with a suitable allowance of stimulants, should be ordered ; the diges- tion, and especially the intestinal evacuations, should be regulated and assisted, and such tonics prescribed as seem best suited to the patient's need. The most generally useful tonics are iron and quinine. While we cannot endorse the so-called specific action once claimed for the tincture of the chlo- ride of iron given in large doses, there can be no question that relatively large doses (fifteen to thirty minims), given every three hours, or even oftener, do have in some cases a stimulating effect which cannot be altogether explained by the amount of alcohol thus consumed, and which may possibly be due to the exciting effect upon digestion. But these large doses soon dis- order the stomach and tend to produce constipation, and must be discon- tinued. Quinine is a rapidly acting and powerful stimulant, and, in doses of three grains given three times a day, supports the nerve-centres, and, to a certain degree, probably holds the temperature in check, although its sup- posed power to check pus-formation cannot be proved. The kidneys are to be carefully watched, and large amounts of fluids administered in order to produce diuresis and encourage them to throw off the poison. The skin may be made to assist the kidneys by encouraging a moderate amount of sweating by a daily alcohol-bath and warm covering. If cellulitis de- velops, it is to be treated in the usual manner, and so with the other com- plications. It has long been known that an attack of erysipelas has a curative effect upon certain conditions. Thus, ulcers take on a healthy action, chronic inflammations clear up, and malignant tumors have even been observed to disappear, after such an attack. Erysipelas has, therefore, been intention- ally inoculated in the attempt to produce these effects, and occasionally with success, but the method is dangerous on account of the uncertain and uncon- trollable nature of the disease, and has been abandoned in its simpler form. The use of the toxines or antitoxines produced by the germs has, how- ever, been lately introduced for the treatment of malignant disease. (See page 114.) MALIGNANT (EDEMA. The bacillus of malignant oedema (Pasteur, Koch) resembles the bacillus anthracis, but the straight rods are more slender (3 micromillimetres long and 1 micromillimetre thick). They produce spores in the body, and they are sometimes found in motion, having flagella. Usually two or three are joined together, forming straight or curved lines, but long chains are also found. It is decolorized by Gram's method. The germ will not grow unless oxygen is excluded. It can be cultivated in agar-agar, gelatin (which it liquefies), or coagulated serum of the blood at the temperature of the body, or even much lower, down to 18° C. Its growth is accompanied by the production of an offensive gas. It has been proved experimentally that one attack creates immunity, and that immunity may be conferred by injections of the toxines.