GANGLION. 418 Fig. 316. there is a large deposit of gelatinous or tuberculous material, or where there are rice or melon-seed bodies, a more radical operation is required. The part should be rendered bloodless by the application of Esmarch's bandage, and the swollen tissues freely exposed by incision ; the thickened lining of the sheath should then be dissected out, or, if this is impossible, removed by curetting ; the tendons themselves can generally be saved, even though the sheaths are freely excised. After removing the diseased struc- tures thoroughly, the wound should be closed by sutures or packed with iodoform gauze, and if the infected tissue has been completely removed a cure may result. It is not uncommon for the disease to recur even after a very thorough removal of the diseased tissue, in which event the oper- ation should be repeated. In relapsing cases the prognosis is not good, the patient often developing tuberculosis of the viscera, which causes a fatal termination. Ganglion.—The generally accepted theory that ganglia were hernial protrusions of the sheaths of tendons has been controverted by the recent researches of Ledderhose and Thorn, who have proved that they are cysto- mata arising from gelatinoid degeneration of the tendon itself and of the para-articular tissues. They are most commonly seen in connection with the extensor tendons of the wrist and hands or upon the dorsum of the foot. They usually exist as small, oval, tense tumors, which contain a clear syrup- like fluid, and may develop slowly or rapidly upon a tendon which has been subjected to unusual strain or to more than ordinary exercise. These cysts may also develop in the capsular ligaments of joints. A compound ganglion consists of a dilatation of the sheath of a tendon or of a number of tendons, and is really a form of tubercular teno-synovitis. (Fig. 316.) Treatment.—The treatment of simple gan- glion consists in a subcutaneous rupture of the sac by pressure, with the thumb and finger or a blow with a book, or by a subcutaneous puncture with a tenotome followed by pressure, the contents es- caping into the cellular tissue and being absorbed ; a compress and bandage are then applied for a few days. Refilling of the sac, however, is apt to occur in a short time. A more radical method of treat- ment consists in exposing the tumor by incision and carefully dissecting it out; the connection with the joint must be care- fully sought for, and, if present, the opening in the sac should be ligatured or sutured. In this operation the greatest care should be observed to keep the wound aseptic. The treatment of compound ganglion has been described under the treat- ment of tubercular teno-synovitis. Tumors of Tendons.—Growths involving the tendons or their sheaths may originate in the tendons primarily or may involve the tendons Compound ganglion of thumb and wrist. (Agnew.)