MIXED ANESTHESIA. 259 Ethyl Bromide.—Ethyl bromide is a colorless, volatile liquid which has been employed quite largely as an anaesthetic. Ethyl bromide produces a loss of sensibility before consciousness is completely lost, and does not produce complete relaxation of the muscles, which interferes much with its usefulness as an anaesthetic in surgical operations. Its prompt action and the brevity of the narcosis would recommend it in many cases, but the fact that its use is not devoid of danger—for a number of deaths have followed its employment as an ana'sthetic—will, we think, prevent its general use as an anaesthetic. If ethyl bromide is employed, care should be taken that it is not confused with ethylene bromide, which is a much more dangerous substance. The mode of administration of ethyl bromide is similar to that of ether. MIXED ANAESTHESIA. This method consists in inducing anaesthesia with one substance and continuing its effect with another, or in producing anaesthesia by a mixture of several anaesthetics. In England a popular method consists in giving nitrous oxide gas until anaesthesia is produced, and then keeping up its effect by the administration of ether. This method we have seen employed most satisfactorily; it is probably one of the safest means of producing anaesthesia, and has also the promptness of its action to recommend it. Oxygen has also been used with ether, the gas passing from a cylinder through a wash-bottle containing ether, and thus driving the latter with it through an inhaler similar to that used in the administration of nitrous oxide gas. This combination has been highly recommended by some sur- geons, but is expensive, and is not likely to be generally employed. A. C. E. Mixture.—Various mixtures of chloroform, ether, and alcohol have been used to produce anaesthesia, but that which has been most widely employed is known as the A. C. E. mixture, consisting of chloroform, 3 parts; ether, 1 part; alcohol, 1 part. Some surgeons employ this mix- ture with the idea that the dangers of chloroform are diminished by its combination with ether and alcohol, but clinical experience has not proved this view to be correct. It should therefore be used with the same care as chloroform. It should be administered upon a towel, or with an inhaler, in the same manner as chloroform, and the patient should be watched as carefully during its inhalation as during the administration of the latter drug, and accidents occurring during its use should be treated in the same manner as those arising during the administration of chloroform. Those who have had a large experience with this anaesthetic recommend its use in the case of children and in stout, flabby subjects suffering from shortness of breath, in patients suffering from advanced disease of the heart or blood- vessels, and in operations upon the neck, mouth, and pleura. After-Effects of Anaesthesia.—Nausea is not common after chloro- form anaesthesia. The treatment of this condition following etherization has been previously described. The temperature is usually notably lowered by anaesthetics, so that it is always well to apply artificial heat and keep the patient well covered. A form of mental disturbance known as confusional insanity is often attributed to the use of anaesthetics, but, as it does not usually