739 CYSTS OF THE LIP. Fig. 666. operation, in the course of from three to six months the tissues stretch out and the mouth becomes natural in appearance. The region under the chin should always be explored by a transverse incision, as the glands will occa- sionally be found enlarged, but so embedded in the fat as not to be recog- nized through the skin. In long- standing or rapidly growing cases the submaxillary region should be thoroughly dissected and all lym- phatic glands removed, even if not evidently diseased.. The necessity for this precaution is shown in many instances where secondary deposits may cause the death of the patient even when no local recurrence takes place, as in the case illustrated in Fig. 666. Cysts. — Sebaceous cysts of the face are very common, especially on the cheek, just below the eye, near the border of the lower jaw, and on the forehead. For dermoid cysts, see page 82. Mucous cysts are very common in the lips, form ing translucent tumors projecting under the mucous membrane, which is greatly thinned and often adhe- rent over them, so that it is difficult to dissect it up. They should be treated by excision or else by incis- ion and a thorough cauterization of the lining membrane with a drop of pure carbolic acid. If the membrane is not destroyed, the cysts generally form again like cysts elsewhere. Hypertrophy of the mucous glands of the lip may make a thick fold of mucous membrane just within the mouth, producing the malformation known as double Up. It can be treated by ex- cising the hypertrophied tissues between elliptical incisions and suture of the wound, if the deformity is sufficient to make any treatment necessary. Cysts of the Meibomian glands are not uncommon in the eyelids, but are usually small. When inflamed they form a very obstinate variety of "sty," which requires free incision and extirpation of the sac to obtain a permanent cure. INJURIES AND SUKGICAL DISEASES OE THE NOSE. Injuries.—Fractures of the nose are considered in the chapter on Fractures. A severe blow upon the nose, even without fracture, may form a hematoma of the septum which may block up the interior of the nose, and if not promptly absorbed may become infected and result in abscess or in necrosis of the bone or cartilage. In cases of injury of the organ, there- Carcinoma of glands of the neck secondary to epi- thelioma of the lower lip, which remained free from local recurrence after excision.