SYMPTOMS OF ANEURISM. 357 acting upon the slightly thickened intima, or to the rupture of an atheroma- tous ulcer. If both intima and media be ruptured, as by the bursting of an atheromatous ulcer the edges of which are not firmly glued together, a dis- secting aneurism will probably result. If the intima alone, or the intima and elastic coat of the media, be torn, unless prompt healing takes place, there will be left a spot of lessened resistance, which becomes the seat of a gradual yielding of the remaining fibres of the media and adventitia, and a sacculated aneurism results. Where a sacculated aneurism develops from a fusiform one, it is known as a mixed aneurism. Structure.—The wall of a fusiform aneurism consists at first of all the coats of the vessel, which later become blended with one another and with the surrounding structures. In sacculated aneurisms other than the small- est the same condition sooner or later develops; the surrounding nerves, fascia, cartilage, and even bone, with much inflammatory tissue, become involved in the sac. The lining of the sac in most cases consists of two layers of blood-clot: the outer, that in contact with the wall, is a firm, pale, laminated layer of fibrin, increasing in density towards the periphery, and constituting the laminated, fibrinous or active clot. It is derived, according to some authorities, from the blood-stream in its passage over the roughened wall of the vessel, which acts as a foreign body and excites clotting, or, ac- cording to others, from the quiet blood outside of the main stream, as an ordinary clot, subsequently altered by pressure. Inside of this active layer is a soft, dark red coagulum lining the channel, which is the passive clot, so called because of the minor part it probably plays in strengthening and curing the aneurism. The deposition of the laminated clot is nature's method of effecting a cure, and acts by lessening the expansile pressure and strengthening the wall of the aneurism. It occasionally becomes or- ganized by the migration into it of lymph-cells from the sac, and upon its formation several of the methods adopted for the cure of aneurism depend for their success. The tendency to the deposit of a laminated clot is poorly developed in the fusiform variety, and, other things being equal, those aneu- risms in which it is present grow more slowly than those in which it is absent. Symptoms.—These are divided into two classes, subjective and objec- tive. Subjective Symptoms.—These are mostly the result of pressure ; pain is usually present when the aneurism reaches any size, and is either a dull ache, perhaps associated with a feeling of weight and numbness in the affected part, or is neuralgic, and is often referred to the distribution of the nerve-trunks pressed upon. Pressure on bone is marked by a severe burn- ing or boring pain. Special symptoms are often due to pressure on im- portant structures, as dysphagia, from pressure on the oesophagus ; dyspnoea, from obstruction of the trachea ; cough, croupy in nature, and change in the voice, from involvement of the recurrent laryngeal nerve ; pressure upon the sympathetic nerve may cause dilatation of the pupils and flushing of the face. In intracranial aneurism a persistent murmur is sometimes com- plained of, and there may be disturbances of the special senses. Objective Symptoms.—External aneurism appears as a rounded, per- haps fluctuating, generally non-inflammatory swelling in the course of the