4 CULTIVATION OF BACTERIA. in nature, and are called toxalbumins. The word toxine is employed by some writers as equivalent to ptomaines, and by others as synonymous with tox- albumins. The ptomaines and toxalbumins ai-e exceedingly powerful poi- sons, producing local necrosis, inflammation, and even suppuration, when introduced by themselves, and entirely free from living germs, into the tissues of animals. The local and general symptoms of this intoxication depend upon the particular toxine employed, and a large number of these poisons have been isolated and studied. Those of the surgically impor- tant pathogenic germs produce inflammation locally, with general symp- toms of fever, chills, cardiac depression, irritation of the kidneys and bowels, and cerebral symptoms, such as delirium or coma. The toxalbu- mins also appear to have the effect of destroying the bacteria to which they owe their origin when they have been produced in sufficiently large quantities. Cultivation.—Bacteria are cultivated for study in the laboratory in meat extracts, in gelatin or agar-agar (a sort of vegetable gelatin), on raw potato, in blood-serum, and in other materials. While some species grow readily in all these media, others are exceedingly difficult to cultivate, es- pecially those which require the exclusion of oxygen. Temperature is a very important factor in their cultivation, and most varieties require a tem- perature of 86° to 95° F. (30° to 35° C.) in order to flourish. The simplest method of cultivation is in bouillon, sterilized in flasks with cotton plugs. (Plate L, Fig. 1.) The bouillon is inoculated with a sterilized needle or loop of platinum wire, which is made to pick up a minute quantity of the substance to be cultivated, and is then dipped in the bouillon, and the flask well shaken in order to distribute the material. The flask is placed in an oven where an even temperature of the proper grade is maintained by a thermostat, and the growth of the bacteria is shown by a cloudiness appearing in the bouillon. Gelatin and agar-agar are used in test-tubes or on flat glass saucers. They may be simply melted and allowed to solidify in the test-tube, usually placed at an angle so as to increase the extent of surface available for inoculation. Esmarch's method of "roll culture" con- sists in quickly cooling the gelatin by placing the tube, protected with a rubber cap, in cold water, or in a groove on a block of ice, while a rapid rotation is kept up in order to spread the gelatin over the inner surface of the tube in a thin layer. When gelatin or agar is used in the saucers, or Petri's dishes, known as plate-cultures (Koch), it is simply melted and poured into the shallow saucer so as to form a very thin layer, and pro- tected with a glass cover. The agar can be sterilized by steam for any necessary time, but this would decompose the gelatin ; therefore the latter must be sterilized by the "fractional" method, which will be described below. When potato is employed, it is cut up with a sterilized knife, ster- ilized by the fractional method, and the cut surface used for cultivation. In all these last-mentioned methods the mode of inoculation or sowing is the same; the material to be sown is picked up with the sterilized needle, and the latter is then thrust into the media to be inoculated, making a stab- culture, or is drawn over the surface. Gelatin-cultures may also be made by melting the gelatin, inoculating it like bouillon, and disseminating the