663 KNOCK-KNEE. results from occupation, and may be confounded with osteo arthritis of the vertebrae or spondylitis deformans. Treatment.—Kyphosis due to rickets shoidd be treated by rest in the recumbent posture, by massage of the weak spinal muscles, and by the use of the constitutional treatment appropriate for that disease. In older patients, when rickets is not the cause of the affection, massage, systematic exercise, and the abandonment of the vicious posture will often result in the relief of the deformity. The use of the spinal brace is rarely re- quired. Anterior Spinal Curvature, or Lordosis. —This affection may occur as the result of rickets, or from relaxation of the anterior spinal ligaments, or from disease affecting the posterior portion of the vertebrae, and is often observed as a compensating curve in tuberculosis of the spine, or in hip-disease. (Fig. 597.) In congenital dislocation of the hip, marked lordosis is a prominent feature of the deform- ity. It is often observed in acrobats who acquire preternatural mobility of the lumbar spine. It may also result from paralytic conditions, as infantile pal- sies or pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis. Treatment.—When lordosis is a compensating deformity to bring the upper part of the spine back to the centre of gravity, no special treatment is in- dicated, but the primary affection which causes the lordosis should receive attention. When it results from rickets, recumbency and tonics with proper diet are indicated ; when it results from paralytic condi- tions, the employment of massage and galvanism may be followed by good results. The use of supporting apparatus, such as a leather or a plaster of Paris jacket, while the child is taking exercise, but not continuously, is often of marked benefit. F Anterior curvature of the spine. (Agnew.) KNOCK-KNEE, OE GENU VALGUM. Knock-knee, or genu valgum, is a deformity which consists in an angu- lar projection of the knee inward. It is a common deformity, and may be either single or double. (Fig. 598.) It arises especially in children begin- ning to walk, as a result of rachitic disease of the bones, and develops more rarely during adolescence, the genu valgum adolescentiwn, which, according to Mikulicz, is due to latent rickets, although this is denied by many. The deformity depends partly on the muscles and ligaments and partly on the bones entering into the formation of the joint. In the rachitic form the bones are especially affected, while in some cases relaxation of the ligaments is the main feature. There is very generally lengthening of the internal condyle of the femur, and sometimes the entire epiphysis is twisted outward, but the former condition is the most common factor in turning the tibia outward. The tibia itself is sometimes deformed at its upper ex-