TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE KNEE. 626 arthritis is generally an acute affection, and is accompanied with marked constitutional symptoms. Chronic bursitis of the knee, which is often tubercular in origin, is sometimes difficult to distinguish from tuberculous arthritis, especially if the bursa involved communicates with the knee-joint, but may be distinguished from the latter by observing that the bursa is distended, that the effusion into the knee-joint is not marked, and that the joint motions are not much affected. Neuroses of the knee-joint are unac- companied by physical signs other than flexion. Sarcoma in this location usually involves the articular end either of the tibia or of the femur, and the enlargement extends some distance above or below the joint. The pain in sarcoma is of a boring character, and pulsation may often be felt, which is a most valuable diagnostic sign. In cases of sarcoma the joint may be involved secondarily. Treatment.—In the treatment of tuberculous arthritis of the knee the first indication is to put the joint at absolute rest. This may be accom- plished by the use of the plaster of Paris bandage, or by some form of splint which furnishes at the same time both fixation and traction. The patient should use crutches, and wear a high shoe on the sound foot, so that no weight can be borne on the affected leg, thus securing complete physiologi- cal rest of the. diseased joint. The patient's constitutional condition should also receive attention ; the diet should be nutritious, and such remedies as tonics, cod-liver oil, and iron should be administered. Fig. 551. When the plaster of Paris bandage is employed it should extend from the toes or the lower part of the leg to the upper part of the thigh, or a movable splint of sole-leather, made to fit the leg accurately by moulding leather upon a cast made from a neatly fitting plaster bandage, may be used, which has the advantage that it can be removed to bathe the limb. Thomas's splint (Fig. 551), or that of Sayre (Fig. 552) or of Shaffer, may be employed with ad- vantage ; the latter are so constructed that they make traction at the same time that fixation of the joint is produced. The course of treatment may extend over months or years. In many cases abscesses form, which should be opened and drained, and if ankylosis occurs with the limb in good position the result may be counted as favorable as that obtained by operative means. Cases often come into the hands of the sur- geon in which the joint is so much flexed that a splint cannot be satisfactorily employed, and if the limb should become ankylosed it would be of little use to the patient. In such cases the use of extension by weight and pulley will often correct the deformity; if not, the patient should be etherized, and with a little force, and possibly by the division of the hamstring tendons, the limb can be brought into a nearly straight position, after which it can be put up in plaster of Paris, or a splint may be applied. Thomas's knee- splint.