269 DETAILS OF AMPUTATION. Amputations during Shock.—The question of amputating while the patient is suffering from shock is one which has received a great deal of attention, and at the present time the weight of surgical opinion is de- cidedly against the operative procedure in this condition. There are, how- ever, cases in which the condition of shock is probably kept up by the presence of the lacerated tissues, and in which, in spite of treatment, reac- tion is not established. In such cases it seems scarcely humane to allow the patient to die without attempting operative treatment. In these cases we often administer an anaesthetic, and if the patient's condition improves under its use we continue it until anaesthesia is produced, and then rapidly perform the amputation; and, although many cases subsequently die of shock, recovery follows in a sufficient number of cases to justify the procedure. Details of an Amputation.—The parts having been previously thoroughly sterilized, the patient is anaesthetized and is moved to the operating-table, or, if the operation is to be done upon his bed, the bed is prepared by placing under the limb a rubber sheet and over this a sheet which has been wrung out of bichloride solution. The instruments, having been sterilized, are placed where they can be within easy reach of the surgeon. The surgeon should first consider the means of controlling the bleeding during the operation. If the patient has lost a considerable quantity of blood it is important that as much blood a.s possible be saved, and, with this end in view, an elastic bandage should be applied from the lowest portion of the limb to the point at which the constricting band or tourniquet is to be applied. We prefer to use for the control of hem- orrhage during the operation an elastic strap, which is wrapped several times around the limb at a point where the large nerves are not close to the surface. This having been secured, we next apply an ordinary Petit's tourniquet a short distance above it, so that when the constricting band is removed this can be screwed down and control any bleeding which is present. Having controlled the circulation of the part, an assistant should hold the limb firmly some distance above the seat of operation, and a second assistant should hold the limb below the seat of operation. The surgeon then decides upon the method of amputation he desires to employ, and makes his incisions accordingly. After the flaps have been cut and the soft parts over the bones have been divided, a retractor is applied to hold the soft parts back, while the bone or bones are divided with a saw. (Fig. 191.) After the limb has been removed, the surgeon first seizes the main artery or arteries with haemostatic forceps and then searches for the smaller vessels, and when as many as possible have been seized with for- ceps, they are tied off in turn with ligatures and the forceps are removed. After secur- ing the principal vessels the elastic tube should be removed, and if any arteries spurt after its removal they should be grasped with haemostatic forceps and ligatured. If free bleeding occurs from a number of points, Retractor and saw applied. (After Esmarch.)