TREATMENT OF PROLAPSE OF THE RECTUM. 1029 Complete prolapse of the rectum. (After Agnew.) mass with the greased finger, or with a piece of soft muslin which has been well oiled, when it can usually be reduced without difficulty. After reduc- tion various methods may be employed to prevent the recurrence of the prolapse. The patient should have the bowels moved upon a bedpan or while resting upon the side. In the case of children the nurse should be instructed FlG- 82°- to draw the skin of the anus to one side during the passage of the feces. The local use of astringent injections of tan- nic acid or oak bark may be employed with advantage, or the protruded mass may be washed with a solution of alum, 31; water, §viii; or one of tinct. of iron, m,xxx ; water, f^iv. The diet should be also regulated. If, however, the bowel continues to protrude with each act of defecation, radical means for the cure of the affection should be undertaken, for it is to be remembered that an unrelieved partial prolapse may gradually develop into a complete one. Radical Treatment—This may be accomplished by cauterizing the mass with nitric acid, the actual cautery, or the clamp and cautery, or by excision of the prolapsed tissue. Cauterization with Nitric Acid.—In pro- lapse of the rectum in children cauterization with nitric acid usually results in a cure. The patient should be given an enema to wash out the rectum and bring down the prolapse ; an anaesthetic should next be given, and, after the surface of the protruded mass has been carefully dried with cotton or a soft piece of muslin, the skin surrounding the anus should be rubbed over with vaseline or oil and the surface of the prolapsed mass painted over with nitric acid, applied by means of a swab, care being taken that the acid does not come in contact with the skin. After the mucous membrane has been painted over with the acid it becomes of a whitish-yellow color. The cau- terized surface is next gently smeared over with boric acid ointment, and the mass is reduced. A small pad of gauze or cotton is placed over the anus, and is held in place by bringing together the buttocks with one or two wide strips of adhesive plaster. The bowels are allowed to remain quiet for a day or two, and are then moved by a saline laxative or a dose of castor oil. At the first motion the bowel may protrude. If this is the case, it should be reduced and a com- press applied over the anus. One application usually results in a cure, but it is sometimes necessary to resort to a second cauterization in cases of extensive prolapse. Although this method of treatment is satisfactory in children, it is not followed by as good results in adults. Actual Cautery.—This is the most satisfactory method of treatment for rectal prolapse in adults. The patient is anaesthetized and placed in the lithotomy position, or upon his side with the limbs flexed, and the cautery is applied to the unreduced mass, three or four lines being made from the apex of the tumor to the sphincter at different points, the deepest eschars being made at the sphincter, and large veins being avoided. The prolapse