FRACTURE OF THE OLECRANON PROCESS. 470 Treatment.—In the treatment of fractures of the shaft of the ulna, any displacement which exists should be reduced by manipulation with the fingers, and care should be taken, if the fragments are displaced towards the radius, to bring them into their natural position, so as to prevent sub- sequent loss of pronation and supination. After reducing the deformity the hand and forearm should be placed in the supine position, and a well- padded splint applied to the anterior surface of the forearm from the bend of the elbow to the tip of the fingers; a shorter padded splint, extending from the olecranon to the wrist or a little beyond, should be placed upon the posterior surface of the forearm, and the two splints should be held in position by the turns of a roller bandage. (Fig. 379.) Some surgeons prefer to treat fractures of the shaft of the ulna with the forearm in the po- sition between pronation and supination. The dressings should be changed at intervals of two or three days, and at the end of four or five weeks the splints may be permanently removed. A plaster of Paris dressing from the knuckles to the elbow may also be employed. Fracture of the Olecranon Process of the Ulna.—This fracture is seldom seen in children, but is not infrequent in adults. The line of frac- ture may separate the tip, or pass through the base or the middle of the ole- cranon process. (Fig. 3S8.) Fig. 388. Fracture of the olecranon process of the ulna. Symptoms.—The symptoms of fracture of the olecranon process are pain at the back of the elbow, complete loss of power of extending the fore- arm, and a prominence above the normal position of the olecranon process (Fig. 389), the fragment being drawn up by the action of the triceps muscle. Fig. 389. Deformity in fracture of the olecranon process of the ulna. Crepitus may also be felt, and lateral motion of the fragment can be obtained by manipulation with the fingers. Upon flexion of the arm a marked gap, into which the fingers can be pressed, will be seen behind the joint.