143 HEMOPHILIA. in these cases for its action upon the kidneys. In the severer cases, un- fortunately, little can be done by treatment: the symptoms develop with great rapidity, and the patient usually dies in a few hours. Cupping of the chest has been recommended, and alcohol, digitalis, and strychnine should be administered. Many surgeons whose experience with fractures has been very extensive have never seen a case of fat embolism. We have personally seen two cases of fat embolism following simple fractures which resulted in death. One of the cases was a boy eight years of age, who by a fall sustained simple fractures of the bones of both thighs and of both arms, and a compound fracture of the upper jaw: he did well for ten days, when he suddenly developed urgent dyspnoea, frothy and bloody ex- pectoration, delirium, and coma, and died in a few hours; the other case occurred in a simple fracture of the femur. HAEMOPHILIA. Haemophilia, or the hemorrhagic diathesis, is a congenital, constitutional condition in which the subjects are liable to severe and obstinate hemor- rhage, which may be spontaneous or follow injuries, often very slight ones. The condition is usually hereditary, and is apt to affect males rather than females, although it may be transmitted by females to their offspring. The subjects of this condition are commonly known as "bleeders." These patients often lose a large amount of blood, and present marked constitu- tional signs of excessive hemorrhage, but usually recover very rapidly when the bleeding is arrested. The pathology of haemophilia has never been satisfactorily explained. It has been stated that the walls of the arteries in this condition are abnor- mally thin, especially the intima. No other evidence of abnormality in the vascular system has been observed. A patient possessing this constitutional condition will often, upon the reception of a slight wound, such as a scratch, or an incision of the skin, or the extraction of a tooth, suffer from a continuous and profuse hemorrhage which may prove fatal. Contusions may be followed by extensive sub- cutaneous hemorrhage. A spontaneous hemorrhage may occur from the mucous membrane or from the serous surface of the synovial membrane of the joints. The diathesis usually manifests itself at the beginning of the first dentition or at puberty, and there has been noted in these cases a ten- dency to swollen and painful joints and muscular pains often mistaken for rheumatism. The condition is certainly not common, or more cases would be observed by surgeons in their extensive hospital work. The few cases we have observed have occurred in wounds of the lips and mouth, and these ended in recovery. Treatment.—In eases of spontaneous hemorrhage the patient should be kept at rest in the recumbent posture, and should be given acetate of lead and ergot in full doses. In traumatic hemorrhage, if a cavity exists, it should be firmly plugged with iodoform gauze, or the actual cautery may be applied, or, if the bleeding be from an incision, a compress should be firmly applied, and at the same time the patient should be given constitutional