OPERATION FOR VARICOCELE. 1152 sexual excitement. More serious cases may be treated by ligation of the veins, either subcutaneously or in an open wound, or by shortening of the scrotum. It may, however, be necessary to operate in some individuals when the disease is slight, because they are hypochondriacal or because they are liable to rejection in the physical examination required before admission to military or other services. Subcutaneous ligation of the veins is executed as follows. The hair shoitld be shaved from the scrotum and the pubes around the point intended for operation for a distance of two or three inches. The surgeon takes the root of the scrotum between his fingers and feels the cord, recognizing the vas deferens by its hardness, separating it from the other parts of the cord as far as possible, and holding it towards the median line, while the veins and other tissues are pushed to the outer side of the scrotal fold. The vas being held out of the way by the thumb-nail, a needle carrying fine silk or catgut is made to transfix the scrotum close to the thumb. It is then re-entered at the point of exit, and carried subcutaneously to the outer side of the veins and around them, and made to issue from the original puncture of entrance in front. The thread is drawn tight, pulled away from the skin on all sides, and tied with a square knot. The ends are cut short and the knot allowed to slip under the skin. The object of this operation is to secure in the ligature all the tissues of the cord except the vas deferens. Another ligature should be applied lower down in bad cases. If the operation has been properly performed, all the vessels will be ligated except the artery of the vas, which lies close to that duct, and possibly one or two small veins in its neighborhood. The ligated veins become obliterated. The patient should be kept quiet for a few days, to make sure that the asepsis has been successful, and to avoid any accident from thrombosis originating at the point of ligature. This operation will cure a large majority of the cases, and it is so simple that it scarcely needs an anaesthetic, although in nervous patients the injection of a drop of cocaine may be advisable. There is little or no pain afterwards, although in some cases the testicle becomes swollen. Although the spermatic artery is inten- tionally included in the ligature, atrophy of the testicle does not follow the procedure, but if the testicle is very small the patient's attention should be drawn to that fact before the operation. Incision and Resection.—A more certain method is the operation by open incision, which is performed at the same point, the skin being incised for the length of an inch, the cord drawn out of the wound, including all the vessels in its neighborhood, and a blunt instrument passed beneath it. The operator separates the vas and its adherent artery from the other vessels, and the latter are surrounded by two ligatures about an inch apart and divided between the ligatures. A separate ligature may be applied to the proximal end of the spermatic artery if it is visible in the stump. If the cord is long, an inch or more may be cut away between the ligatures, an end of each ligature tied together to shorten the cord, and the wound closed with a few stitches. A compressive dressing should be applied, as it will prevent swelling of the testicle, relieve pain, and keep the patient quieter.