CONDITIONS AFFECTING OPERATIONS. 131 eruption usually disappears in a few days, and does not, as a rule, affect the prognosis unfavorably, except in cases where it is due to a general septic infection. CIRCUMSTANCES AFFECTING RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Various circumstances influence the results of operative procedures. The success of an operation does not always depend upon the skill of the surgeon ; the constitutional condition of the patient is often a factor of the first importance in determining the result of an operation. Trivial opera- tions in certain classes of patients are often attended with serious results, and, on the other hand, the gravest operations are sometimes undertaken with little hope of success, yet in these cases the most favorable results occa- sionally follow. There is an unknown element, the power of constitutional resistance, which even the most experienced surgeon cannot definitely de- termine. The following conditions should be considered in deciding the question of operation : Age.—In many operations where the surgeon is called upon to operate to save life the question of age cannot be considered. No judicious surgeon would hesitate to operate upon a strangulated hernia or remove a crushed limb in an infant or an aged person who was in condition for operation, whereas he would probably refuse to perform an extensive plastic operation in an infant for the relief of a congenital deformity, or to remove a deep- seated benign tumor from the neck of au aged person whose expectation of life at best is very short. Infants and aged persons do not bear operations as well as children and those in middle life ; the results of operative procedures in children after the period of infancy are usually very satisfactory, the successful results in this class of patients probably being largely due to the fact that, as a rule, they are not in any degree affected by anxiety as to the operation, that their organs are in a healthy and vigorous condition, that they bear confinement to bed well, and that the nutritive activity of the tissues is in its best con- dition, so that wounds heal promptly. Infants and young children, how- ever, suffer inordinately from shock, which, if prolonged, may produce a condition of collapse, and they possess a remarkably excitable condition of the nervous system, which is apt to develop a high temperature or nervous symptoms under slight provocation. They also manifest the constitutional symptoms from the loss of blood more rapidly than do adults, but if reaction occurs they recuperate very rapidly. Aged persons are not as good subjects for operative procedures as those in middle life ; they are likely to be affected with visceral disease, bear the shock and loss of blood badly, and are apt to become bedridden, so that they should be got out of bed as soon as pos- sible. Age is not a true test of the ability of the individual to bear opera- tive procedures, but rather the vitality of the tissues, and in this connection the saying "that a man is as old as his blood-vessels" is a very true one. We have seen a patient fifty years of age who presented evidence of vas- cular degeneration which would have been unusual in a man of eighty years. The mere question of years in such a case would be misleading. Aged persons who have sustained injuries of the lower extremities or of the