COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHOEA. 1058 the part dressed with a sedative lotion, such as lead water and laudanum. (See page 1131.) Inflammation of the preputial follicles going on to the formation of abscess is sometimes noted, and may require incision or extir- pation. Follicular inflammation of one of the lacunce of Morgagni appears as a little sensitive swelling under the skin, and is due to the occlusion of the mouth of the follicle. If pus forms, it may discharge externally or into the urethra, perhaps resulting in a urethral fistula. Treatment consists in enucleation, or in excision of a portion of the wall of the follicle. It may result in peri-urethral abscess by spreading in the connective tissue, when prompt incision should be resorted to. Peri-urethral abscess may develop on one or both sides of the frenum, at the bulb, or between these two points. It is most serious at the bulb, from involvement of the perineum. It may rupture into the urethra or externally, or may result in the formation of a fistula, or may burrow and cause retention of urine. Treatment.—It is to be treated by rest in bed and the application of anodyne fomentations, with prompt evacuation of the pus. Cowperitis, or inflammation of Cowper's glands, is not a very frequent complication. It develops from the third to the fourth week or later, and is due to extension of the gonorrhoea! process through the ducts from the bulb. It is generally unilateral, the left gland being most frequently af- fected. It begins as a painful swelling on one side of the perineum, which increases in size, and finally shows the signs of pus-formation, with rupture into the perineum or urethra, and troublesome fistula?, may result, and per- haps retention of urine, or rarely urinary infiltration. As the result of imperfect resolution there may persist an induration as the site for future outbreaks of inflammation. Treatment consists in rest, with the adminis- tration of a laxative, and locally leeching, followed by anodyne applications, as poultices, or lead water and laudanum, and an incision as soon as pus has formed. Lymphangitis and perilymphangitis are occasionally present during the height of the inflammation, and are indicated by hard cord-like swell- ings under the skin on the dorsal surface of the penis, and often by red lines. Abscess exceptionally occurs in their course. Treatment con- sists in applications of warm anodyne fomentations, and incision if pus forms. G-onorrhoeal Bubo.—Sometimes the inguinal glands become inflamed in the course of gonorrhoea, resulting in gonorrhceal bubo, which is rather rare, and, unlike chancroidal bubo, is not prone to suppuration. Rest, ano- dyne lotions, and resolvent ointments will generally result in resolution. If suppuration takes place, the treatment should be the same as for the inflammatory bubo following chancroid. Epididymitis is the most frequent complication of gonorrhoea, occurring in from six to twelve per cent, of cases. It is due to the infection travelling from the prostatic urethra backward through the ejaculatory ducts and vas deferens to the epididymis. The testicle may also be involved, in which case it is known as epididymo-orchitis. It is predisposed to by violent exer- cise and sexual and alcoholic indulgence. Its most common time for devel- opment is usually given as from the third to the sixth week, but it has been