255 ACCIDENTS DURING ETHERIZATION. of the patient. He is then requested to take deep breaths, or to blow the ether away, which latter procedure causes him to take deep inspirations. In the beginning of etherization the patient will resist the inhalation much less if the ether is given slowly, with a plentiful admixture of air. The first effect of the inhalation of ether is the production of acceleration of the pulse and respiration ; the mucous membrane of the air-passages is irritated, and coughing often occurs, and the patient complains of a sense of suffocation. To avoid these symptoms the nasal mucous membrane may be sprayed with a two or four per cent, solution of cocaine just before the administration of the anaesthetic, and this spraying should be repeated every half-hour while the anaesthetic is used. By the use of cocaine in this manner the nasal reflexes are diminished, the stage of excitement is shortened, the sense of suffocation is diminished, and vomiting is less likely to occur. In the early stage of etherization there is a disposition to muscular movements, so that frequently it becomes necessary to restrain the patient; the brain is also excited, and the patient is apt to talk or cry out. These symptoms call for a continuance of the administration of the ether, and not for its with- drawal. Succeeding this stage, if the ether be pushed, profound anaesthesia takes place, as is evidenced by the loss of consciousness, relaxation of the muscular system, moist skin, loss of special senses, contracted pupils, and slow and deep respiration, tending to become stertorous. When the con- junctiva is insensitive to the touch of the finger the anaesthesia is usually profound. First Insensibility from Ether.—There exists early in the course of the administration of ether a stage of primary anaesthesia, which lasts for a minute or more, and which may be taken advantage of to perform such a minor surgical operation as the opening of an abscess, the reduction of a dislocation, or the extraction of a tooth. The recovery from this condition is usually very prompt, and is not followed by nausea and the after-effects which attend the prolonged administration of ether. When the anaesthesia is profound the amount of ether inhaled should be diminished, and the patient given only so much as will keep him well under its influence. It is surprising how small a quantity of ether a careful and watchful anaesthetizer will require to keep the patient fully under its effects for a very considerable time. The time required to produce complete anaesthesia by ether varies in different cases : anaesthesia is produced in children in a few minutes ; in adults from ten to fifteen minutes are usually required; drunkards require a large amount of ether and take a long time to come under its influence. When the administration of the drug is stopped, the patient may con- tinue for some time in an unconscious condition, resembling a quiet sleep, or he may awake and exhibit more or less symptoms of cerebral excitement. Accidents during Etherization.—During the administration of ether, particularly in the early stage, the patient may suddenly stop breathing, the face at the same time becoming cyanosed. This condition calls for the withdrawal of the ether, and if an inspiratory effort does not quickly follow, pressure should be made upon the front of the chest, and when this is relaxed a deep inspiration usually takes place and no further