83 DERMOID CYSTS. In the occipital region an entire series of cases of these cysts has been col- lected, showing their mode of development, beginning with cysts in the occipital lobe of the brain, some of which are attached to the occipital bone by a pedicle. Next there are dermoid cysts between the dura and the skull, and others in the bone. Finally, there are dermoid cysts under the skin, with pedicles attached to the bone, making the series complete. Dermoid cysts are also found elsewhere on the head, and we have removed one which lay over Fig. 41. section on the ovary. Very rarely der- I \ 7 moids have developed in Connection with Dermoid cyst at external angle of orbit. the folding in of the skin at the umbilicus. Structure.—The term dermoid in connection with these cysts should be understood in its fullest significance, for all the various structures produced by the skin are to be found in the sac. The most common is the hair which grows on the inner side of the cyst-wall, occurring either in tufts or lining the entire cyst, the hair being long or short. Sometimes the lining skin is affected with alopecia, the hair being found loose in the sac, while the epi- thelial lining is perfectly bald. Hair, teeth, and finger-nails have been found in these structures, and bony plates are not infrequent in the deeper layers, owing to ossification of the corium. A rudimentary mamma has even been observed, which is not surprising, for the normal mamma is considered simply an altered sebaceous gland. The various tissues or organs which the dermoid cysts contain may be attacked by hypertrophy or by the develop- ment of neoplasms, like the similar external tissues. Thus, sarcoma, papil- loma, or epithelioma may develop, and the bony deposits represent osteoma. While hair is a common occurrence in all dermoid cysts, the more compli- cated structures just mentioned are to be found only in connection with those tumors which originate from the pelvic organs. There is usually a depression in the bone under dermoid cysts situated over the skull, caused not so much by the direct mechanical pressure as by the accompanying failure of development of the bone at this point. In some instances there is a complete opening in the bone, the pericranium and the dura mater being in contact, which may be an awkward complication during an operation. Dermoid cysts of the head are seldom large, although they may attain the size of a hen's egg, they have very little tendency to become the masto-squamons suture. They are very rare on the skin of the trunk, but they may occur in the median line. They are rare on the external genitals, but frequently originate from the ovaries, and may form large tumors. Those which have been re- ported in the upper part of the abdominal cavity, without any connection by a pedi- cle to the pelvis, are probably instances of cysts which originated in the ovary but have broken their pedicles and become transplanted elsewhere. For a description of the ovarian dermoids we refer to the