EFFECTS OF BURNS AND SCALDS. 233 the formation of vesicles or bullae; third, those in which there is more or less complete charring or destruction of the parts, skin, cellular tissue, muscles, and bone. These injuries may involve a small extent of tissue, or a considerable portion of the body. The Constitutional Effects of Burns and Scalds.—These vary with the extent of surface involved and the degree of the burn or scald. Shock is a marked symptom in all severe burns or scalds, and its devel- opment depends upon the position of the burn or scald and the extent of surface implicated. Superficial burns of great extent and those involving the trunk are accompanied by more marked shock than circumscribed burns with deep destruction of the tissues. Patients suffering from extensive burns have, as a rule, little pain, but often complain of feeling cold, and may have a severe chill. They soon become comatose, and death results from cerebral and visceral congestion. If reaction occurs, the temperature rises to a high point and inflammation of the injured tissue develops, which may terminate in suppuration or gangrene. Albumin is usually present in the urine in this stage of burns and scalds. Mortality.—The mortality following extensive burns or scalds is very high ; according to Durham, if one-half of the surface of the body is burned or scalded, even superficially, death usually results. Nussbaum states that recovery is rare if a third of the surface of the body is superficially burned or scalded. The majority of cases of severe or extensive burns die of shock within twenty-four hours; that is, before reaction is established. If re- action is established, many cases die at a later period, of exhaustion follow- ing profuse suppuration, septicaemia, pyaemia, or secondary hemorrhage. Gastro-intestinal inflammation with vomiting and bloody stools may cause a fatal termination, as well as perforating duodenal ulcer, though the latter is certainly a very rare complication following burns or scalds, for in the post- mortem examinations of one hundred and thirty-eight patients dying of burns and scalds in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, only three cases showed intestinal lesions. Burns and scalds are very fatal during the period of infancy and childhood, and in this class of patients death usually results from shock. CEdeina of the glottis is a dangerous complication of burns or scalds of the mouth in children, and is caused by inhalation of hot air or of steam in attempting to drink from the spout of a tea-kettle. Treatment.—The treat ment of burns and scalds of the first degree con- sists in the application of bicarbonate of sodium; lint saturated with this solution is wrapped around the part for a few hours, and very quickly relieves the pain. This dressing may be followed by the application of un- guentum petrolatum or unguentum zinci oxidi. If the burn or scald is extensive, shock may be present, and should be treated upon general prin- ciples. This variety of burn leaves no scar. In the treatment of exten- sive burns or scalds of the second or third degree, pain and shock should receive the first attention. If pain is marked, it should be relieved by the administration of morphine hypodermically, and the treatment of shock, which is usually present, requires the most careful attention. The patient should be covered warmly and surrounded by hot water cans or bottles, and