ACINOUS CARCINOMA. 122 Fig. 83. Epithelioma of foot. lar carcinoma is also found in the skin, originating from the sebaceous and sweat glands, and it is even seen in some of the acinous glands, such as the parotid and the mamma, arising from the small primary branches of the excretory ducts which are lined with colum- nar epithelium. Course.—Tubular carcinoma may grow rapidly and form large tumors, but in the intestine it makes small tumors and tends to produce strictures, owing to the contraction of the fibrous tissue of the stroma of the neoplasm, analogous to the shrinkage found in the atrophic form of scirrhus of the breast. Where this takes place the mucous membrane will be found thickened and the cahbre of the intestine is very much nar- rowed, but when viewed externally the bowel shows no tumor, and looks as if a string had been tied about it at that point, the hard nodules being evident only when the gut is pressed between the fingers. The contracting form of tubular carci- noma is rather slow in its growth, affects the glands late, and is not very apt to form metastases ; the softer and rap- idly growing variety has a much more malignant character. These tumors run a course of about two years from the time when the first symptoms are discovered, unless life be pro- longed by surgical treatment. Metastases from cancer of the stomach and intestine occur most frequently in the liver, and next in the lungs, but they have also been found in the brain and in the bones. Acinous Carcinoma.—The acinous glands give rise to carcinomatous growths with cuboidal or many-sided epithelium lying in a stroma which more or less closely imitates the gland from which they spring. This vari- ety occurs in the breast (Fig. 84), in the thyroid and salivary glands, and in the pancreas, the ovary, the testicle, and the prostate. Varieties.—The proportion of the epithelial cells to the fibrous tissue is very variable. In some cases the tnmors are very soft, with a scarcely visible stroma, while in others the latter forms the important part of the tumor, and only isolated groups of epithelial cells are found. (Fig. 85.) The first variety is encephaloid cancer, which grows rapidly, makes large tumors, ulcerates, infects the lymphatics and forms metastases early, and has a short clinical course. If the fibrous tissue is well developed, we have the scirrhus (Fig. 86), which, although equally malignant, is less rapid in its progress. When the fibrous stroma is very abundant and the number of cells is very small, the so-called atrophic scirrhus is produced. In atrophic scirrhus the fibrous tissue of the tumor seems to undergo constant contraction, like that seen in scars, and, although the growth extends by the spread of the epithelial cells into the surrounding parts, the contracting stroma apparently interferes with the nutrition of the cells, so that their number is greatly diminished in the older portions. This contraction actually reduces the size of the tumor and of the organ in which it develops, the latter shrinking away, so that the entire breast may become as small as an English walnut, the final result being a fibrous mass containing a few epi- thelial cells scattered through it, all trace of the glaud-tissue being lost.