TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 365 usually of the moist variety. After ligation, precautions should be taken to elevate the limb, to wrap it in cotton, and to surround it with hot water bottles, to assist in the preservation of its vitality until the collateral circu- lation is established. If moist gangrene appears, immediate amputation is the best treatment; at the shoulder-joint in the case of the arm, or at the upper portion of the thigh in the lower extremity. If gangrene of the dry form occurs, amputation may be delayed until the line of separation has formed. Indications for Ligation in Aneurism.—Ligation is indicated (1) where, although compression is applicable, a scarcity of assistants forbids it ; (2) in old, nervous, or intractable patients ; (3) where compression is impos- sible, as in the carotids, the intracranial vessels, and the axillary and femoral arteries near their origin ; (4) in diffused or rapidly growing aneurisms, or those accompanied by much oedeina ; (5) in inflamed aneurisms ; (6) where milder methods have resulted in failure. Oontra-indications to Ligation in Aneurism.—(1) Atheroma can no longer be considered a positive contra-indication, since even a much-dis- eased artery permits of successful aseptic ligation ; yet it must be borne in mind as a possible complicating condition. (2) The existence of other aneu- risms, especially internal, sometimes contra-indicates the application of a ligature, on account of the danger of throwing increased strain upon the in- ternal circulation. (3) Ligation is contra-indicated in aneurisms where the proximity of large branches affords no room for the formation of a coagulum. (4) In ruptured aneurisms, or in those in which gangrene is threatened, amputation should be preferred to ligation. Ligatures.—As we expect primary union, there is no objection to silk ligatures being employed, and they are preferred by many on account of the ease and certainty with which they can be sterilized; ehromicized catgut and kangaroo tendon ligatures are often employed. The Old Operation and Excision.—What is known as the old or Antyllian method was in vogue before Hunter reduced the operation of ligation to a scientific basis, since which time it has been almost entirely superseded by that operation and compression, but it is occasionally employed in dealing with suppuration in cases of diffused or ruptured aneurisms and in sloughing of the sac. The Antyllian oper- ation consists in opening the sac, clearing out the clots, and tying the vessel above and below. (Fig. 275.) The modern method of excision, which is a reintroduetion in a modified form of the old operation with aseptic methods, has yielded very brilliant results. Thus, a series of twenty cases of major aneurisms of the extremities has been so treated without a death. The circulation is first controlled, if pos- sible, by means of a tourniquet, an incision is made over the Antyllian method, aneurism, the affected artery is then ligated above and below the sac, and this is removed by dissection ; all the bleeding vessels are tied, and the wound is closed, great attention being given to the prevention of