PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. 916 through the abdomen without wounding any of the viscera, but such cases are very great rarities, and it is safe to assume that when a ball has passed through the abdomen some of the organs have been injured. Incised or stab wounds of the abdomen may or may not injure the con- tained viscera. The liability to visceral injury by cutting weapons is less than that by bullets, the velocity being less and the organs having time to retreat before the weapon. The liver, kidney, and bladder may be reached by cutting weapons without involving the peritoneal cavity and without danger of subsequent peritonitis. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—The first effect of the abdominal injury is shown in the shock. The shock of stab wounds is greater than that of gunshot wounds, while that of severe contusions of the abdomen with injury to the viscera is still more violent. The shock manifests itself by failure of the pulse, superficial respiration, and cold sweating, and occasionally by vomiting. The pain produced by these injuries is very variable, and de- pends largely upon the amount of extravasation of the contents of the injured organ. The signs of hemorrhage often form an essential part of the primary symptoms, and the loss of blood may result fatally in a few minutes if the liver or spleen is ruptured or if one of the large vessels has been severed. In the milder cases the distinction between shock and hemorrhage is not easy, but the latter usually causes shooting pains running down the limbs, rest- lessness, and rapid respiration, with persistent consciousness. When the hemorrhage is very copious there may be dulness on percussion in the de- pendent parts of the abdomen from the effused blood. The abdominal wall is held against the liver by the atmospheric pressure, and if gas from the intestine enters the peritoneal cavity it causes a separation to take place between the two, and a tympanitic note from the layer of gas takes the place of the usual dulness on percussion due to the liver. This disappearance of the liver dulness is considered a pathognomonic sign of perforation of the stomach or intestine, but it is not absolutely reliable unless there is evidence that the liver dulness existed just before the accident. A fold of the colon may be thrown up between the liver and the abdominal wall, and thus simulate the falling away of the liver caused by free gas. On the other hand, adhesions may hold the liver against the abdominal wall even when gas is present, or the gas may be confined by adhesions around the organ from which it escapes, so that it cannot reach the hepatic region. The escape of gas, however, through an external wound in cases of recent injury may be relied upon as evidence of perforation of the stomach or the bowel. Rupture of the spleen may occasion severe and even fatal hemorrhage with- out other symptoms, or there may be vomiting and pain in the left shoulder. Laceration of the great vessels also presents only the symptoms of internal hemorrhage. Laceration of the liver may be recognized by the signs of severe hemorrhage in the first stage, followed by tenderness over the organ and pain in the right shoulder, and occasionally by a low grade of peritonitis, caused by the escape of bile into the peritoneal cavity. The peritonitis after this accident is occasionally acute, and, on the other hand, the peri- toneal cavity has been found to contain large quantities of bile, with scarcely any sign of inflammation. Rupture of the kidney will be recognized by the