806 ENTROPION. Ptosis, or complete or partial drooping of the upper lid over the eye- ball, may be congenital or acquired. If the condition is not remediable by medicinal measures, as, for example, is syphilitic oculo-motor palsy, an operation may be needed to remedy the defect. The simple operation of removing an elliptical portion of the skin of the drooping lid, together with the hypertrophied subcutaneous fat and connective tissue, is practically useless, although often practised. Numerous operations have been devised for the purpose of relieving ptosis, some of the best being those which endeavor to connect the tarsal portion of the lid to the anterior portion of the occipito-frontalis muscle. Lagophthalmos, or inability to close the eyelids, which may be either non-paralytic, or paralytic, as, for example, after facial palsy, may be cor- rected by the operation of tarsorrhaphy, which consists in freshening the edges of the lids at the external commissure for a distance of about five millimetres, care being taken not to destroy the hair-bulbs. The edges are then approximated with silk sutures. Symblepharon, or a cohesion between the eyelid and the eyeball, has been referred to in connection with burns of the cornea and the conjunctiva. It may also follow severe types of conjunctivitis. In simple symblepharon it is sufficient to divide the adherent bands, but if it is extensive an operation must be devised which shall cover in the denuded surfaces. The one recommended by Mr. Teale is the best. In this, after the bands have been divided, flaps of conjunctiva from the neigh- boring portions of the eyeball are slid into place and attached with statures. The author in some cases of extensive symblepharon has prevented re- attachment of the lid to the ball by planting upon the denuded surface an ordinary Thiersch graft. Trichiasis is an affection in which the eyelashes are misplaced and turned inward against the eyeball. If there are several rows of cilia, the name distichiasis is applied. The usual causes of trichiasis are chronic inflammatory conditions of the lids, especially trachoma and blepharitis. Sometimes the affection is congenital. If the misplaced lashes are not too numerous, they may be removed with an ordinary epilating forceps, and in order to prevent the recurrence of the disease each follicle may be destroyed with the fine point of an electro- cautery needle. If the condition is associated with entropion, as is com- monly the case, some form of single or double transplantation of the entire ciliary border is usually required. (See next paragraph.) Entropion, independently of that variety which is often caused by a spasmodic contraction of the orbicularis in inflammatory conditions of the eyelids and conjunctiva, usually consists of an organic inversion of the lid border, associated with malposition of the lashes. For its relief numerous operations have been advised. Treatment.—The author prefers the method of Hotz for reconstruction of the upper lid border. In this operation the ciliary border is split by an intermarginal incision to a depth of three or four millimetres. Next a transverse incision is made through the lid skin and the orbicularis muscle, just below and parallel with the upper line of the tarsal cartilage, the edge