STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. 1074 arbitrarily called strictures of large calibre, and by many the normal nar- row points of the urethra have been included among these strictures. Some have even claimed that a perfect urethra is one of equal size from end to end, and designate any reduction of its largest diameter a stricture of large calibre. It is true that in chronic inflammation of the canal, where it is desirable to treat the mucous membrane by stretching it by the passage of large sounds, a very slight narrowing may interfere with the treatment and assist in keeping up the inflammation, and may therefore require surgical attention; but it is scarcely proper to designate these narrower points as strictures on this account. The calibre of the urethra bears some propor- tion to the size of the penis: according to Otis, a penis three inches in circumference should have a urethra of 30 French; one of three and a Fig. 831. Paraffin casts of the normal urethra. (Gerster.) quarter inches, of 32 French; one of two and three-quarter inches, of 28 French. Some surgeons think these figures too large, but in treating stric- ture we have usually aimed at obtaining a calibre of 30 or 32 French, and have had no accidents attributable to this cause, and but few recurrences of the stricture. The mucous membrane behind a stricture is usually in a condition of chronic inflammation, because the narrowing of the canal re- tains the urine and purulent discharge, and ulceration frequently exists at this point. The urethra behind the obstruction is apt to be dilated, owing to the increased pressure necessary to expel the urine, and the pressure may extend backward and dilate the bladder, the ureters, and even the pelves of the kidneys. The incomplete evacuation of the urine also leads to infec- tion and disease of the bladder and kidney, and sometimes a stone is formed in the bladder or urethra. Stricture of the urethra is rare in the female, probably because gonorrhceal urethritis is less severe in that sex. Obstruc- tion of the urethra usually begins in from four to eight months after an injury, and in from two to ten years—on the average four years—after an attack of gonorrhoea.