496 COMPOUND FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. allowed to walk, first with crutches, then with a cane, and finally supporting his weight upon the injured limb. The theory upon which this dressing- is used in fractures of the bones of the leg is that the limb is suspended in the plaster cast, and that really no weight is brought to bear upon it; the weight is transmitted to the plaster cast, and the points of pressure are just below the head of the tibia and the condyles of the femur. The advantages claimed are that the patient can soon be about and attend to his business, and that there is little swelling, as the fragments are thoroughly immobilized. Excellent results have followed this method of treatment, but we think it should be employed only where the surgeon has the patient under continuous observation. Compound Fractures of the Bones of the Leg.—Compound fractures of the bones of the leg are common injuries, and the line of frac- ture may be similar to that seen in simple fractures. The greatest danger is from infection of the wound, and the risk of infection is greater if the wound is made from without than if made by the fragments from within. Treatment.—The treatment of compound fractures of the bones of the leg consists, first, in the sterilization of the skin surrounding the wound and of the wound itself; loose fragments of bone or foreign bodies should be re- moved, and it is wise in all cases, except those in which only a small punc- tured wound exists and in which there is no comminution of the bones, to fix the fragments by the application of heavy silver wire sutures; the wound should then be drained, a few superficial sutures introduced, and a copious antiseptic dressing applied. The ankle-joint and the knee-joint should be fixed by the use of a fracture-box, or by the application of moulded pasteboard splints extending from the sole of the foot to a point a little above the knee-joint. A plaster of Paris dressing may be applied in these cases, provision being made at the time of its application for fenestrating the bandage over the seat of fracture, if for any reason it should become necessary to expose the wound. The time required for union in cases of compound fractures of the bones of the leg is considerably longer than that required in simple fractures, being from, twelve to sixteen weeks. In com- pound fracture of the leg, Treves, after sterilizing the skin and the wound, keeps the parts dusted with powdered iodoform, and as this mixes with the serum and blood and dries, an antiseptic scab covering the wound results. FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA. Fractures of the fibula may occur at the upper extremity, in the shaft, or at the lower extremity of the bone ; the most common seat of fracture is in the lower third. These fractures are produced by direct or by indirect force. When produced by direct force, such as a blow, the wheel of a wagon, or the kick of a horse, the fracture will usually be found to occur at the point where the force is applied. When produced by indirect force, the bone usually gives way in its lower third, within two and a half or three inches of the inferior extremity. Fracture of the Upper End of the Fibula.—Fracture of the upper end of the fibula may be caused by direct force, by sudden contrac- tion of the biceps muscle, or by forcible adduction of the leg. In such cases