BANDAGES OF THE HEAD. 177 Fig. 104. Barton's bandage. to the chin or scalp, or may be employed as a temporary dressing in cases of fracture or dislocation of the jaw. (Fig. 103.) Barton's Bandage.—The initial extremity of the roller should be placed just below the occipital protuberance, and the roller should be car- ried obliquely upward, under and in front of the parietal eminence, across the vertex of the skull, then downward over the zygomatic arch, under the chin, and upward over the opposite zygomatic arch and over the top of the head, crossing the first turn as nearly as possible in the median line of the skull ; the turns of the roller should next be carried under the parietal eminence to the point of starting. The bandage is next carried obliquely around under the oc- cipital protuberance, and forward under the ear to the front of the chin, then back to the point from which the roller started. These figure-of- eight turns over the head and the circular turns from the occiput to the chin should be repeated, each turn exactly overlapping the preceding one, until the bandage is exhausted. (Fig. 104.) The extremity of the bandage should be secured by a pin, and pins should be introduced at the points where the turns cross each other, to give additional fixation to the bandage. To obtain additional security in the application of Bar- ton's bandage, a turn of the bandage passing from the occiput to the forehead may be made, this turn being interposed between the turns of the bandage ordinarily applied. The Oblique Bandage of the Jaw.—This bandage is applied by placing the initial extremity of the roller in front of and above the left ear, if the left angle of the lower jaw is to be covered in. The bandage is then carried from left to right, making two complete turns around the head from the occiput to the forehead. When two turns have been made from the occiput to the forehead, the bandage is allowed to drop down upon the neck, and is carried forward under the right ear and under the chin to the angle of the left side of the jaw; it is next carried upward close to the edge of the orbit and obliquely over the vertex of the skull, then down behind the right ear, continuing this oblique turn under the chin to the left angle of the jaw, where it ascends in the same direction as the previous turns. Three or four of these oblique turns are made, each turn overlapping the preceding one, and passing from the edge of the orbit towards the ear, until the space is covered in ; the bandage is then carried to a point just above the ear on the opposite side, and is reversed and finished with 12 Fig. 105. Oblique bandage of the