INJURIES OF THE SCROTUM. 1139 are held aside by assistants while the operator dissects out and lays bare the attachments of the corpora cavernosa to the pubic bone on each side. The root of the penis with the masses of lymphatic glands attached is then seized and drawn forward, and the suspensory ligament is divided so that the whole mass comes away from the pubes. The operator separates the attachments of the corpora cavernosa downward along the pubic bones with a periosteal elevator. The main vessels may give some difficulty, but are generally secured with ease with clamps, and can then be ligated. The penis then remains attached to the body only by the urethra, and this is divided. The stump of the urethra is split as described above, and the edges of the mucous membrane secured to the skin of the perineum just behind the scrotum by sutures. The edges of the skin are united throughout the wound, two or three deep sutures being placed in the middle line to hold the two halves of the scrotum in position. When the disease has not attacked the corpus spongiosum, we have found it of advantage to the patient to dissect it from the cavernosa and to leave the urethra long enough to bring the end of that canal forward between the two halves of the scrotum and secure it upon the anterior surface of the latter. When the wound has healed, micturition is very much easier with the meatus in this position, because the patient can stand up, and by supporting the scrotum with one hand he has a natural funnel to direct the flow of urine beyond his feet. When the opening is in the perineum he is compelled to adopt the sitting posture in order to empty the bladder. If the penis is amputated at the pubic bone, the patient should carry a small funnel with him, which can be placed over the stump of the organ in order to direct the stream beyond the feet. The after-treatment of these cases presents nothing unusual. If the consent of the patient can be obtained, castration should always be performed at the same time as amputation of the penis, for sexual desire is sometimes troublesome afterwards, and it has been abundantly shown that the removal of the testicles late in life does not affect the char- acter or mental qualities of the individual. The patient, however, will usually refuse to consent to further mutilation. The percentage of cures after these operations for malignant disease of the penis is as yet uncertain, too few cases being on record that have been followed sufficiently long to determine this point. It would appear possible, however, to obtain cures by thorough operations in thirty or forty per cent, of the cases at the time when they are usually seen. Partial operations offer no hope whatever of a cure. THE SCROTUM. Injuries.—Injuries of the scrotum, with the exception of contusions, are not common, and these are remarkable for the size of the hseniatoina which may form on account of the rupture of large veins and the loose char- acter of the cellular tissue, which allows great effusion of blood. The ex- travasation may be in the connective tissue, forming a hematocele of the scrotum, which frequently reaches the size of a man's head, and the ecchy- mosis may extend well up on the abdomen. The blood may also be confined in the tunica vaginalis, and then the tumor is smaller and the skin not ad-