1174 TREATMENT OF LACERATION OF THE CERVIX. laceration of the perineum occurs at the same time, as is the rule. Malig- nant disease probably often results from the inflammation and chronic irri- tation of a lacerated cervix. Symptoms.—The symptoms of a laceration of the cervix which has existed for some time are pain in the back and pelvis, leucorrhoea, menor- rhagia, and other disturbances from the accompanying uterine displacement and inflammation. They are by no means proportional to the degree of the tear, as a small fissure may cause quite severe symptoms. All lacerations which extend to the vaginal junction or which cause eversion of the cervi- cal mucous membrane demand operation, and also slight tears which cause severe symptoms. The diagnosis is sometimes easier to the touch than to the sight, superficial union having occurred across the tear, and it may be difficult to determine the situation of a unilateral laceration, as the uterus inclines towards the injured side. The patient should be examined with a Sims speculum, the uterus drawn down by a tenaculum, and the sound in- troduced, which will give the true direction of the uterine canal and render evident the extent and exact situation of the laceration. Treatment. —It is well to repair these injuries by suture immediately after their occurrence, but the precise shape and relations of the cervix are not always evident at that time, and the exhaustion of the patient from shock or loss of blood, or some external circumstance, may make the operation impossible. Subinvolution, endometritis, and other inflammatory conditions are to be reduced as far as possible by rest, hot douches, and local applications before a plastic operation is undertaken. The operation should be preceded by a thorough curetting of the uterine canal, which can be done at the same sitting unless the discharge from the endometritis is very purulent, in which case the curetting should be done several days beforehand. In many of these cases there is great hypertrophy of the vaginal portion of the uterus, and amputation is to be preferred to any plastic operation. The plastic operation is done by fixing the uterus with a tenaculum and drawing it well down, the patient being either in the dorsal or in the lateral position as preferred. The surfaces of the angular cleft in the cervix are freshened and all cicatricial tissue at the angle excised, preferably with the scissors, and the wound is closed by sutures of chromi- cized catgut, silkworm-gut, or silver wire. A straight, short, round needle, or a Hagedorn needle of suitable curve, may be used, and should be passed towards the cervical canal parallel with the angle of the wound (Fig. 890), and returned by a reverse course on the other side. If wire is used it is bent and hooked into a "carrying loop" of thread on the needle, but fine wire can be threaded directly into a Hagedorn needle. Two or three sutures are introduced parallel to the first. The sutures, when tied or twisted, draw the edges of the wound together, and convert it into a linear incision on the outer side of the vaginal portion. (Fig. 891.) The sutures must not be drawn so tight as to produce strangulation of the tissues. A bilateral laceration is treated in a similar manner, both sides being pared and all the sutures inserted before any are tied. It is seldom necessary to employ a ligature, as the introduction of the sutures usually controls the hemorrhage perfectly. If the cervix is very hypertrophic, a large amount of tissue may be cut away,