42 657 CHAPTER XXIII. ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. This branch of surgery deals with the prevention or correction of de- formities, either by the use of mechanical appliances or by operative pro- cedures, and the choice of the method adopted in any individual case depends upon the judgment of the surgeon. Excellent results may follow either of these methods in well-selected cases. The deformities which require cor- rection may be either congenital or acquired. Congenital deformities con- sist in a large proportion of the cases of deformities of the hands and feet, including most of the cases of club-foot, those of the hip and shoulder from arrest of development of the acetabulum or of the glenoid cavity, some cases of wry-neck, and arrest of development of the limbs. Such congenital deformities as harelip, cleft, palate, exstrophy of the bladder, imperforate rectum, etc., are sometimes considered as coming within the domain of orthopaedic surgery, but in the present work they are not included under this head. Acquired deformities may result from injuries, but are in most cases due to tuberculosis of the bones or joints, to rickets, or to paralyses of muscles, which may be cerebral, spinal, or peripheral in origin. The fact that deformities result from these diseases should always cause the surgeon to employ such means in their treatment, both mechanical and operative, that deformity shall be, as far as possible, avoided. Orthopaedic surgery, therefore, should not be limited to the correction of deformities, but should be extended to their prevention. TORTICOLLIS, OR WRY-NECK. Torticollis, or wry-neck, is a deformity in which the head is held in a dis- torted position through the abnormal action of certain of the neck muscles. It occurs in both sexes, and is occasionally congenital, but generally comes on gradually during early childhood. The so-called congenital form may be of prenatal origin, but is usually due to an injury during labor, affecting either the nerve-centres or the muscles. The acquired form arises from several causes : it may be due to paralysis of the opposing group of muscles, to an injury to the muscles, or to a growth in the sterno-eleido-mastoid, as a gumma or a sarcoma, or it may be compensatory, following a primary lateral curvature in the dorsal spine. The torticollis oculaire of Quignet is due to an effort to overcome an inequality in the strength of the eyes. A majority of the cases, however, are spastic, in some of which a direct cause can be discovered, as a central nervous lesiou, or some source of peripheral irritation, as abscess of the neck or enlarged cervical glands ; while in very many cases, one of the eruptive fevers, severe mental shock, or hysteria,