1210 DIAGNOSIS OF OVARIAN TUMORS. already formed strong adhesions to the parietal peritoneum or to the vis- cera, and its vitality is preserved by the vessels derived from those sources. Cysts may therefore be found attached only to the upper part of the ab- domen which really had their origin in the pelvis, but have lost all trace of connection with that part. An ovarian cyst may become infected and suppurate, the infection probably taking place through an adherent loop of bowel. In such an event the symptoms are those of an acute abscess, which may burst either externally or, more commonly, into some of the hollow organs. A cure may result under these circumstances, although it is rare. Symptoms.—The symptoms of ovarian and broad ligament tumors de- pend upon their size, consistency, and situation. The tumors are unnoticed until they attain a considerable size, unless they are accidentally discovered by the physician in a pelvic examination. When small they excite very few symptoms unless they become impacted in the lower part of the pelvis and displace the uterus or press upon other organs. The solid tumors are more likely to occasion symptoms, even when they are of small size, owing to their greater weight and consistency and their tendency to develop down- ward and under the peritoneum rather than to grow upward. When the tumor is large it interferes with the functions of the abdominal viscera, and the patient becomes cachectic and anaemic, the face assuming a peculiar, anxious expression in advanced cases. The cyst may be so large as to em- barrass respiration, and the interference with digestion may be so great that the patient is reduced to extreme emaciation. While ovarian cysts are most common in early adult life, they may be found at any time from infancy to old age. Their presence does not always prevent pregnancy or interfere with its completion, and, as a healthy Graafian follicle has been seen in the walls of such cysts, pregnancy is possible even when both ovaries are cystic. The cysts are frequently bilateral, but, as a rule, one ovary is fairly healthy. The menstrual function is usually unaltered, although some tumors cause menorrhagia, and the menses gradually cease as the cachexia develops. Diagnosis.—Physical Examination.—An ovarian tumor while it is small usually lies in Douglas's cul-de-sac, is frequently movable, and is hard or cystic to the touch according as it is solid or fluid, the dermoid cysts having a peculiar doughy consistency. It is difficult in this stage to demonstrate the attachment of the tumor to the uterus, but it is usually possible to deter- mine which is the diseased ovary by the detection of the normal ovary and tube upon the other side. The uterus will be felt in front of the tumor or slightly to one side. The fingers can usually be passed between the fundus of the uterus and the tumor, unless the latter has developed in the folds of the broad ligament and gained its position behind the uterus by stripping up the peritoneum from that organ, in which case it will be impossible to execute this manoeuvre. Tumors of the broad ligament fix the uterus com- pletely and displace it towards the opposite side. The diagnosis of tumors of this kind from subperitoneal fibroid tumors of the uterus may be veiy difficult, and they may also be mistaken for the retroflexed pregnant uterus. As the tumor enlarges, it rises out of the pelvis, and at this stage its con- nection to one horn of the uterus by a pedicle can generally be demonstrated,