344 VARICOSE VEINS. much thickened, by reason of connective-tissue infiltration and inflamma- tory new formation, to which the name periphlebitis is attached. The valves are shortened, or often almost disappear, and become in- sufficient to support the column of blood. The thick- ening and dilatation may not uniformly involve the whole vein (Fig. 265), so that at points the thinned wall bulges beyond the line of the vessel, giving rise to a con- dition known as a venous cyst. Causes.—It is generally conceded that any causes which produce increased intravenous pressure tend to the production of varicose veins. The affection is seldom seen in youth, but is very common in middle and ad- vanced age. "Women are much more apt to suffer from varicose veins than men ; the disease in this class of pa- tients arises from interference with the free return of venous blood from the obstruction offered by the physi- ological or pathological enlargement of the uterus; the venous obstruction caused by tight garters is also a factor in the production of this lesion. Constipation is con- sidered by some authorities a potent cause of this affec- tion, a distended colon causing obstruction of the iliac section of vein showing veins, but the direct relationship between varicose veins unequal thickening of an(j constipation has not been clearly proved, for many walls. (Agnew.) cases of the most obstinate constipation are entirely free from this affection. Occupation plays an important part in the production of varicose veins : those whose occupation keeps them habitually upon their feet are apt to suffer. There also seems to be an hereditary influence which predisposes to this condition ; members of the same family through several generations will often suffer from varicose veins. Gravity increases the in- travenous pressure, and its effects are most marked at the lower end of the blood-column. The obstruction caused by abdominal tumors and effusions, and diseases of the heart and lungs, in which a feeble circulation removes the vis a tergo from the venous blood-current, are well recognized as important factors in the production of varicose veins. Symptoms.—Extensive varicosity of the veins may exist and yet no marked symptoms be present. Superficial varicose veins are recognized by their tortuous outline and bluish color. Patients who suffer from varicose veins usually complain of a sense of fulness or tension and more or less dull pain in the enlarged veins upon walking or standing; this is quickly relieved if the limb is raised or the patient assumes the horizontal posture. When venous cysts exist, they can be emptied by pressure or by raising the part which contains them. They are often situated near the saphenous opening, and give a distinct impulse upon coughing, so that they have some- times been mistaken for femoral hernia. Rupture of Varicose Veins.—One of the most serious symptoms which may arise from varicose veins is hemorrhage, which usually follows a scratch or bruise over a thinned portion of the vein; the bleeding is profuse, and