530 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SPINE. Fig. 449. Destruction of the bodies of the vertebrae in tuberculosis of the spine. (Agnew.) lateral or anterior surfaces of the vertebra? may be accompanied by very little deformity. Compression of the spinal cord may result from the press- ure of tubercular products between the dura mater and the bone, or, rarely, from pressure upon it of the displaced bones. The spinal nerves having their origin from the cord at the seat of disease may be pressed upon. If the disease is arrested in the early stage, before any destruction of the bodies of the vertebrae has occurred, the parts may return almost to their normal condition, no marked deformity being present, but there is apt to result more or less anky- losis at the seat of disease. If softening and breaking down of the bodies of the vertebra? have occurred, with caseation and liquefaction of the infected tissues, recovery takes place with ankylosis and great de- formity at the seat of disease. Symptoms.—The symptoms of tuberculosis of the spine vary with the stage, situation, and extent of the disease. The most prominent early symptoms are rigidity, tenderness, and local pain; later there are developed deformity and abscess, and occasionally there is implication of the nerves and spinal cord, causing paralysis. Eigidity of the spine is a very constant early symptom of this affection, due to absence of movement in the intervertebral joints, which at first is caused by protective muscular action and later by ankylosis. Eigidity can be noticed if the patient is asked to look at something behind him, when he will turn his body to do so, or, better, by getting him to pick up an object from the floor, when in stooping he bends the thighs upon the trunk and the knees upon the thighs, and does not flex the spine in the usual way. In walking or standing there is noticed the same tendency to fix the spine. The patient fixes the upper part of the spine by the aid of the trapezii and scapular muscles, which raises the shoulders and throws the arms out, and in walking the gait is a shuffling one, to avoid the jar communicated to the diseased vertebra? by high stepping. Pain in the early stage of the disease is complained of in the regions supplied by the nerves which come off from the cord at the seat of disease. In disease of the lumbar region the pain is abdominal, and may be associated with vesical irritability. In the dorsal region pain may be epigastric or intercostal, and respiration may be affected. In the cervical region pain or numbness may be felt in the arms, an irritating cough may be present, and deglutition is sometimes affected. Pain may be elicited by pressure or rough handling, and is much increased upon movement or in jarring of the spine by jumping. It will often be noticed that the patient, for comfort, will support the head and the parts above the seat of disease with the hands placed under the chin or upon the pelvis, to relieve the diseased vertebra? of the weight of the superimposed parts. Deformity or angular curvature usually occurs later in the disease, depending upon the amount of breaking down in the bodies and the