1003 EXAMINATION OF THE RECTUM. patient survives, when he has attained some size an operation may be undertaken to close the communication with the bladder or the urethra. Except in cases of a membranous septum between the anus and the rectum, or in those in which the rectum terminates low down in the pelvis and where it opens into the vagina, the results of operation are not usually satisfactory. A large number of these patients die soon after the operation, but occasion- ally after a colostomy it has been possible later to expose the bowel and secure it at the site of the anus and subsequently close the artificial anus. DISEASES OF THE A1STUS AND THE RECTUM. Examination of the Anus and the Rectum.—Before under- taking the treatment of any case of disease of the rectum or the anus, the surgeon should make a careful physical examination of the parts. This is most important from the fact that the majority of patients present them- selves for treatment with a diagnosis of piles or fistula; we can call to mind a number of patients who have come under our care who stated that they were suffering from or had been treated for hemorrhoids, in whom an examination revealed ischio-rectal abscess, fistula, fissure, or carcinoma, and in whom valuable time had often been lost by the lack of a careful examination. In making an examination of the anus or the rectum, the patient should be placed upon the side in the Sims position, or upon the back, with the limbs drawn up and held aside as in the lithotomy position. If possible, an enema should be given before the examination, to empty the rectum of fecal matter. The anus should first be inspected, and the presence of external hemorrhoids, protruding polypus, or a fissure, the openings of fistula?, the swelling of an ischio-rectal abscess at the anal region, or the presence of eczema of the anus, can usually be made out without difficulty. The patient should be asked to strain slightly, and at the same time the folds of mucous membrane should be separated, so that the presence of a fissure can be ob- served. In examination of the rectum the finger should be covered with cosmoline, after filling the nail with soap, and introduced into the rectum with a boring motion, and as it is introduced the condition of the sphincter muscle is noted. By the finger from three to four inches of the rectum can be explored, and the presence of a polypus, the internal opening of a fistula, a stricture, or a malignant growth can be made out. Internal hemorrhoids, unless they are well developed, cannot well be felt with the finger. The use of a rectal speculum will enable the surgeon to expose the rectal walls for inspection. This instrument cannot, as a rule, be used with satisfaction unless the patient is under the influence of an anaesthetic. The rectal specula which we have found most satisfactory are the modified Sims specu- lum (Fig. 805) and the bivalve speculum. (Fig. 806.) Kelly practises a method of examining the rectum which consists in the use of cylindrical specula from five to fourteen inches in length fitted with obturators. The patient is placed in the knee-elbow position, and as soon as the obturator is removed the rectum becomes distended with air. A head- mirror or an electric lamp is used to illuminate the cavity. By the long