141 DELIRIUM TREMENS. administration of a diuretic and diaphoretic fever mixture will often render the patient's condition much more comfortable. The wound should also be inspected, and if pus is present and cannot escape, free drainage should be provided by removing sutures and introducing a drainage-tube, or by making counter-openings if necessary. In such an inflamed condition of the wound moist dressings will often be more comfortable than dry ones, and will facilitate the escape of pus. DELIRIUM TREMENS. This is an affection of the nervous system characterized by disturbed mental condition, tremor of the muscles, and delirium, which not infre- quently comes on after operations and injuries in persons who are addicted to the habitual and excessive use of alcohol. It may follow an injury re- ceived while the patient is on a debauch, or may develop upon the recep- tion of an injury some weeks after the patient has entirely abstained from the use of alcohol. Patients usually recover from an attack of delirium tremens, but occasionally death results from this affection, and post-mortem examinations show congestion and serous exudation of the membranes of the brain and ventricles. Symptoms.—The development of this affection following an injury is usually rather rapid ; the patient is restless, and marked tremor of the mus- cles is observed ; he is disinclined to take food, and does not sleep. When the disease is fully developed, the muscular tremor is increased, there is absolute insomnia, the patient is extremely restless, attempts to remove his dressings and to get out of bed, is delirious, and is often the subject of delu- sions. He imagines persons or objects are present to do him an injury, and attempts by persuasion or threats to deter them from their purpose. When the delusional stage of the affection is well developed, the patient is often in an excited state, both mentally and physically. The temperature is usually elevated, but seldom reaches 103° F. (39.5° C). Treatment.—When the surgeon observes that the patient is threatened with an attack of delirium tremens he cau often ward off the development of further symptoms by the use of sedatives: bromide of potassium and chloral in full doses should be administered, and the patient should be given nourishment in a concentrated form : if under this treatment he ob- tains sleep, the symptoms usually disappear rapidly. When the affection is fully developed, it is often necessary to restrain the patient in bed by securing the arms, legs, and body by bands made froni sheets, care being taken that they are so applied that he cannot injure the parts included in the bands by his uncontrollable movements. It is a matter of the greatest importance to secure sleep for the patient: hence bromide of potassium and chloral should be freely administered. He should be given at the same time concentrated nourishment, milk, and beef tea, and the addition of a little tincture of capsicum or Cayenne pepper to the latter will often be found of advantage. If the restlessness does not subside and the patient is not able to retain nourishment and there is evidence of cardiac failure, it may be necessary to administer whiskey, aromatic spirit of ammonia, or strychnine ; it is, how-