THYROTOMY. S53 should be opened, and afterwards its removal accomplished by forceps or a snare. In adults the intralaryngeal method can often be employed with success. The tendency to recurrence of the growths requires this method of treatment to be prolonged for a considerable time. When the intra- laryngeal method cannot be enjoyed, as is often the case in children, or when it is important, for the purpose of diagnosis in adults between a benign and a malignant growth, to expose the growth, this may be accom- plished by exposing the cavity of the larynx by an incision, thyrotomy. Thyrotomy.—A preliminary tracheotomy should first be performed, and the trachea above the tube should be plugged with gauze, or a tampon tracheotomy-tube should be employed to prevent the entrance of blood into the trachea. This consists of a tracheotomy tube whose lower portion is surrounded by a sac of india-rubber, which can be inflated when the tube is in place, and thus occludes the trachea above the lower opening of the tube and prevents the entrance of blood from above. (Fig. 732.) The Fig. 732. Tampon tracheotomy-tube. thyroid and cricoid cartilages should be exposed by an incision in the median line of the neck, and the thyroid divided in the median line from its lowest portion to within a few lines of its upper limit, so that the alse can be held apart by retractors. It is often necessary to divide the crico thyroid membrane and the cricoid cartilage to obtain free exposure of the cavity of the larynx. When this has been accomplished, the growths may be removed by scissors or a curette, and their bases touched with chromic acid or the actual cautery ; care should be taken to remove the growths thoroughly, as they have a great tendency to recur. After removal of the growths the edges of the cartilages should be brought together accurately by fine catgut sutures and the external wound should be closed by sutures. The tracheotomy-tube should be worn for a week or ten days, and as the tracheotomy wound closes the respiratory function is gradually restored to the larynx. Thyrotomy may also be employed to remove necrosed portions of the cartilages, or in cases of cicatricial stenosis follow- ing syphilitic or diphtheritic ulceration, when it becomes necessary to remove cicatricial tissue to increase the calibre of the larynx. The opera- tion of thyrotomy is not attended with much risk, especially if a preliminary