207 SUTURES. the edges of the wound, and are employed to prevent dangerous tension upon the sutures which approximate the edges of the skin. These sutures are employed in the form of the quilled, button, or plate suture. Sutures of Coaptation.—These are superficial sutures applied closely together, and including only the skin. They are employed to secure accu- rate apposition of the cutaneous surfaces of wounds. Sutures of Approximation.—These sutures are applied deeply into the tissues to secure approximation of the deep portions of a wound. They are often employed by means of the quilled, button, or plate suture. Secondary Sutures.—These sutures are employed where primary sutures have failed to secure apposition of the edges of a wound, or in cases of secondary hemorrhage where the wound has been opened to turn out the blood-clot and secure a bleeding vessel; they are also employed where it is necessary to pack a wound with gauze, to control hemorrhage after the operation, or where haemostatic forceps have been allowed to remain clamped upon bleeding tissues in the wound after an operation. The sutures may in such a case be introduced and loosely tied at this time, and when the packing or forceps is removed at the end of two or three days or after granulation has begun the sutures are tightened, so as to secure apposition of the edges of the wound. Method of Securing Sutures.—Metallic sutures are usually secured by twisting the ends together, or by passing the ends through a perforated shot and clamping the shot with a shot-compressor. Sutures and ligatures of catgut, silk, silkworm-gut, or kangaroo tendon are secured by tying, and several different knots are employed in securing them. Reef or Flat Knot.—This is one of the best forms of knot to use in securing sutures or ligatures, and it is made by passing one end of the thread over and around the other end, and the knot thus formed is tight- ened. The ends of the thread are next carried towards each other, and the same end is again carried over and around the other; and when the loop is drawn tight we have formed the reef or flat knot. (Fig. 144.) Fig. 144. Fig. 145. Reef or fiat knot. Surgeon's knot. Surgeon's Knot.—This knot is formed by carrying one end of the thread twice around the other end, and, after tightening this loop, the same end is carried over and around the other end, as in the case of the final knot of the reef or flat knot. (Fig. 145.) The surgeon's knot and reef knot combined is a very excellent method of securing sutures or ligatures of cat- gut or silk, because in the ordinary method the first knot is apt to relax before the second knot is applied.