FRACTURES OF THE LOWER JAW. 438 the body, the ramus, or the processes. A fracture involving the body of the bone may occur at any point from the angle to the symphysis, and may involve the entire thickness of the bone or be confined to a portion of the alveolar process. Fractures of the body of the bone are usually compound through the mucous membrane of the mouth. Multiple fracture of the body of the bone is not an uncommon accident. The most common seat of fracture is near the anterior dental foramen (Fig. 336), which is sometimes associated with a fracture Fracture ot the lower jaw. (Malgaigne.) near the angle on the opposite side. Fracture may also occur at the symphysis, through the ramus, the neck of the condy- loid process, or the coronoid process. Symptoms.—The symptoms of fracture of the lower jaw are pain and inability to move the jaw, mobility, crepitus, and deformity : the latter depends largely upon the situation of the fracture. When the fracture is at the symphysis one fragment will usually be a trifle higher than the other, and the line of the dental arch will be displaced. In fractures in front of the masseter muscle—that is, near the anterior dental foramen—the pos- terior fragment will generally be found external to the anterior fragment, the overlapping being produced by the action of the digastric muscle on the injured side and the influence of the internal pterygoid and the external portion of the masseter muscle on the sound side ; these two forces act upon the anterior fragment, while the internal pterygoid and the deep masseter muscle affect the posterior fragment. When the ramus of the lower jaw is broken there is generally very little displacement of the fragment, from the fact that the masseter and pterygoid muscles cover the part and act as splints. When the neck of the condyloid process is broken there is usually deep- seated pain in front of the ear, aggravated by movements of the jaw. Complications. —It is rare for serious complications to follow fractures of the inferior maxillary bone. The inferior dental nerve appears usually to escape injury, but occasionally bleeding has been observed from the ears, from force transmitted to the external auditory canal through the condyles of the jaw. Necrosis.—As these fractures are usually compound through the mouth, necrosis frequently occurs and retards repair. Treatment.—In fractures of the body or ramus of the lower jaw, the deformity should be reduced by manipulation, and the lower jaw should be brought up against the teeth of the upper jaw and fixed in this position by the application of a Barton's bandage. (Fig. 335.) A cup-shaped splint of binders' board may be moulded to the chin and held on by the Barton's bandage to give additional fixation to the parts. If there is very great dis- placement of the fragments, this can be remedied and the fragments secured in their natural position only by exposing the fragments, drilling them, and securing them in position by the application of one or two heavy wire, catgut, or kangaroo tendon sutures. Where the alveolar process only is separated, this should be pushed back into place, and by wiring together