ULCERATION OF THE RECTUM. 1024 such as for the relief of hemorrhoids or fistula. In such cases, from not keeping the patient at rest for a sufficient time or from constitutional con- ditions, healing of the wound may be delayed and an ulcer persist. Foreign bodies in the feces or the pressure of hardened feces may also cause ulcera- tion of the rectum. These ulcerations are generally above the sphincter and cause little pain, and the patient's attention is usually called to the condition by the discharge of a little blood and pus with the stool. A digital exami- nation, or one with the speculum, will disclose the seat of the ulcer. Catarrhal Ulceration.—This condition may result from acute proctitis, from the impaction of hardened feces in the rectum, from the presence of polypi, or in women may occur from the pressure of a displaced uterus. It is characterized by a sense of fulness and discomfort or pain in the rectum, and by the discharge of a little blood and pus mixed with mucus, and unless relieved by treatment is apt to run a very chronic course. If the rectum is examined with a speculum, ulcers with elevated irregular edges, con- fined to the mucous membrane and situated well above the sphincter, are found. Tuberculous Ulceration.—Tuberculous ulceration of the rectum may exist as a primary affection, or it may be secondary to tuberculosis of the lungs or other organs. When a primary affection, it may result from direct inoculation, from contact of food which contains tubercle bacilli, or, as has been pointed out by Klebs, from the swallowing of sputa containing these organisms. In tuberculous ulceration of the rectum the ulcers are under- mined and irregular, and marked infiltration of the mucous membrane is present. The ulcers have a tendency to perforate the coats of the bowel, by reason of which the formation of sinuses and fistulse is a frequent complica- tion. Symptoms.—In this affection pain is not usually marked, and the con- dition may exist for some time before the patient's attention is directed to the rectal disease. A slight discharge of blood and pus with the stool sooner or later occurs. If a patient suffering from tuberculosis of other organs pre- sents these rectal symptoms, the nature of the trouble should be suspected. Syphilitic Ulceration.—Syphilitic ulceration of the rectum occurs late in the disease, and often results from the breaking down of a gumma. It is accompanied by the usual symptoms of ulceration of the rectum, and runs a very chronic course. In all cases of chronic ulceration of the rectum the patient should be carefully examined to ascertain if he has had syphilis. Dysenteric Ulceration.—Ulceration of the rectum following dysentery, especially if the latter affection has been of a chronic form, is occasionally met with. The ulceration in these cases appears to originate in the solitary folli- cles. The symptoms presented are those common to ulceration of the rectum. This variety of ulceration, if extensive, may subsequently cause stricture of the rectum. Treatment. - The general treatment of ulceration of the rectum is applicable to all the varieties, and consists in absolute rest in bed, usually for some weeks, and careful regulation of the diet to prevent irritating material in the feces from coming in contact with the ulcerated surfaces. A diet composed of milk and animal broths is the best. The bowels should also be regulated so that soft movements are obtained, saline laxatives being