436 FRACTURES OF THE UPPER JAW. director, the parts may be held in position by packing the nasal cavities firmly with strips of antiseptic gauze around pieces of rubber catheter intro- duced into the lower nasal fossa. In lateral displacement of the nasal bones from fracture, after reducing the displacement, a small compress held over the fragments by strips of adhesive plaster will be the only dressing required ; indeed, in many cases when the displacement is once corrected it is not apt to recur and no dressing is required. In cases where the fragments are de- pressed and cannot be held in position by packing the nares with gauze, a sterilized steel needle may be passed through the skin below them and brought out upon the other side of the nose, and a strip of adhesive plaster passed over the bridge of the nose and fastened to the ends of the needle to steady the fragments; the needle should remain in position from eight to ten days. Compound fractures of the nasal bones through a wound in the skin are usually not serious injuries; detached fragments should be removed, but fragments having vital attachments should be pressed back into position aud the wound should be covered with an antiseptic dressing. Compound fractures involving the niucous membrane of the nose are more serious in- juries ; the nasal cavities should be irrigated with a mild antiseptic solution and packed with iodoform gauze. Fractures of the Upper Jaw.—These fractures usually result from force directly applied, and may involve the body, the nasal process, or the alveolar process. As these fractures are usually the result of the application of great force, comminution of the bone is not uncommon, and they are often associated with fracture of other bones of the face. If the injury is confined to the bones of the face, although there may be numerous fractures and ex- tensive comminution, recovery usually follows, with more or less deformity. Complications.—Fractures involving the nasal process with laceration of the mucous membrane may be followed by emphysema of the face, or, as the nasal process contributes to the formation of the lachrymal canal, its in- jury may be followed by obstruction to the passage of tears. Fracture of the superior maxillary bone may also be complicated with fracture of the base of the skvdl. The infra-orbital nerve may be injured in fractures near the orbital plate, which may give rise to neuralgia or sensory paralysis. Hemorrhage in compound fractures of the superior maxilla may be profuse. Treatment.—In the treatment of fractures of the upper jaw all frag- ments and splinters of bone having vital attachments should be replaced, if any teeth have been displaced they should be replaced, and if there is com- minution of the alveolus the teeth and the separated fragments may be fast- ened together by fine silver wire to fix and hold them in place ; the lower jaw should then be brought in contact with the upper jaw to act as a splint, and the jaws should be secured together by the application of a Barton's bandage. (Fig. 335.) Interdental splints made of cork, with grooves to fit the teeth, or of gutta-percha, are also sometimes employed in the dressing of these fractures. The patient should not be allowed to move the jaw in mastication, and should be nourished with liquid and semi-solid food. The bandage should be removed every second or third day. These fractures are usually firmly united at the end of four or five weeks.