749 ULCERATIVE STOMATITIS. accompanied by great pain and swelling, and are more likely to be followed by sloughing. If the latter complication occurs, the tongue may be bound down by adhesions and its motions seriously interfered with. Bites of animals and stings of insects or serpents are followed by great swelling of the organ, which has in a few cases caused a fatal termination. Incised and Lacerated Wounds of the Tongue.—These are caused by sharp or blunt instruments, or by the teeth when the tongue is pro- truded. The principal dangers in wounds of the tongue are from hemorrhage, and later from septic infection. Foreign bodies may be lodged in the tongue, and, the wound becoming infected, dangerous secondary hemorrhage results. Treatment.—In superficial burns or scalds of the tongue, or injuries from caustics, the use of a boric acid solution, or of a solution of carbolic acid, gr. i; carbonate of sodium, gr. xv; water, f E i, will relieve the pain and act as a mild antiseptic. In cases of stings of insects or bites of ani- mals or serpents, the swelling of the tongue may be so great that respiration will be interfered with, in which case free incisions should be made into the organ, being generally followed by rapid decrease in the swelling. In incised and lacerated wounds of the tongue the wound should be carefully explored, any foreign body should be removed, and the bleeding arrested by the application of ligatures to the bleeding vessel, if possible; but if it cannot be exposed in the wound, the clots should be removed, and the edges of the wound brought together by deep sutures of silk or catgut, which serve at the same time to control the bleeding and to coaptate the surfaces of the wound. Antiseptic mouth-bashes should be freely used until the wound is healed. Repair is usually prompt, and the sutures may be removed at the end of a week. DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND TONGUE. STOMATITIS. Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the mouth presents itself in a number of different forms, but those which most concern the surgeon are ulcerative, syphilitic, and gangrenous stomatitis. Ulcerative Stomatitis.—This condition of the mucous membrane results from wounds, scalds and burns, caustics and acids, the irritation of rough or carious teeth, and the use of tobacco ; the ulceration following the use of rnercury may also be included under this head. Symptoms.—The ulceration usually begins in the gums of the lower jaw, near the margin of the teeth, and subsequently spreads to the floor of the mouth, the tongue, the lips, and the cheeks. The gums are swollen and congested, and the surfaces of the ulcers are covered with grayish sloughs. The ulcers bleed upon the slightest touch, the teeth become loose, and necrosis of the alveolar margin of the jaw is apt to occur. Profuse salivation is present, the breath is foul, and the subniaxillai-y glands are often tender and swollen. Treat- ment.—This consists in frequent and thorough cleansing of the cavity of the mouth with mild antiseptic solutions—boric acid, 3i to water fSvi, or a solution of carbolic acid, gr. xii; chlorate of potassium, 31; water, f 5 vi, and the ulcerated surfaces should be touched with a solution of nitrate of silver, gr. x to water f 3 i. The patient should be placed upon a liquid diet, smoking