614 ACUTE SEPTIC SYNOVITIS OF THE HIP. that it comes on soon after a strain or exposure to cold, and when proper treatment is instituted recovery soon takes place. We are inclined to think that many of the cases of coxalgia which have been reported as being cured in a short time by the use of splints or special apparatus, in which recovery followed without deformity and impairment of function of the joint, were really cases of acute simple synovitis of the hip. Treatment.—The first indication in the treatment of simple acute syno- vitis is to put the joint at rest. This may be accomplished by confining the patient to bed and applying extension by means of a weight and pulley attached to an extension apparatus applied to the leg, such as is used to make extension in fractures of the femur ; lateral support may also be given to the limb by the use of sand-bags. The same object may be accomplished by the use of Thomas's or Taylor's splint in case it is desirable to allow the patient to go about during the course of treatment. In infants and young- children fixation may be secured by the application of a splint of felt or binders' board moulded to the leg, thigh, and pelvis. If pain is marked, the local application of hot fomentations or lead water and laudanum will often be of service. The patient should be carefully fed and giveu tonics, such as iron and quinine. Fixation of the joint should be maintained for some weeks, and after all pain, swelling, and tenderness have subsided the splint should be removed and the patient allowed to use the limb cautiously. Acute Septic Synovitis and Arthritis of the Hip.—This condi- tion may result from pygemia, or from absorption from infected wounds, or by extension from an acute epiphysitis, or may occur as a complication of typhoid or scarlet fever, or measles. Symptoms.—The disease runs a rapid course, the limb soon becomes abducted, flexed, and everted, and the dis- tended capsule of the joint is apt to rupture, allowing the pus to escape into the surrounding tissues; the head of the bone may also become dislocated from distention of the capsule. The patient at the same time complains of pain in the joint and has an elevated temperature. Treatment.—As soon as there is evidence of purulent effusion in the joint, it should be opened by incision, irrigated with sterilized water or bichloride solution, and thor- oughly drained, and an extension apparatus or splint should be applied to fix the joint. The patient's constitutional condition should receive atten- tion, stimulants, quinine, and iron being administered freely. It is remark- able that in many cases of acute septic arthritis of the hip recovery follows with a useful joint after incision and free drainage ; in some cases, however, after the wounds have healed, more or less fixation of the joint results. If dislocation of the head of the bone has occurred, its reduction may often be accomplished by manipulation. Tuberculous Arthritis of the Hip, Coxalgia, Hip-Joint Dis- ease.—This is one of the most frequent joint-affections which come under the care of the surgeon, and is most common in children, but is occasionally seen in adults. The disease may be osteal or synovial in its origin. The tubercular deposit in the majority of cases takes place at the femoral epiphy- sis, or in the head of the femur under the articular cartilage, but it may also occur in the acetabulum or in the synovial membrane of the joint. Primary infection of the synovial membrane is probably much more frequent than is