CONDITIONS AFFECTING OPERATIONS. 134 operation except in cases of extreme urgency. Haemophilia is certainly a very rare affection. Our own experience with this affection has been con- fined to two or three cases of wounds about the mouth or face, and a case of castration, in which the bleeding was controlled with great difficulty. The surgeon should not refuse to perform an urgent operation in a patient suffer- ing with haemophilia, for experience shows that severe bleediug is not so apt to follow serious operations as trivial ones. Leucocythasmia.—This condition affects the results of operations very unfavorably, and operative procedures in patients suffering with this affec- tion should be avoided as far as possible. Tuberculosis.—The subjects of tuberculosis are not, as a rule, unfavor- able ones for operative procedures, and this is especially true in the case of children. It is surprising how rapidly a child who suffers from tubercu- lous disease of a joint, which has advanced too far for excision, will im- prove after removal of the diseased joint by amputation. If, however, there is serious visceral disease, tuberculous subjects are not good subjects for operative procedures. Tuberculous patients advanced in years do not bear operations well. Wounds often heal very promptly in tuberculous subjects, but are apt to break down and reopen. Syphilis.—Syphilis does not appear to affect unfavorably to any marked extent the repair of wounds or the course of operations. The healing of wounds seems to be practically unaffected even in secondary syphilis. In the later stages of the disease, if the wound involves tissues affected by gummatous infiltration, its repair is usually unsatisfactory, and healing may not be accomplished until constitutional treatment has been administered. Pregnancy.—Operations should, if possible, be avoided during preg- nancy. Patients in this condition may as the result of operation abort, which accident adds greatly to the danger of the operation. Operations of necessity, however, have often to be performed upon pregnant women, and often result satisfactorily. We have seen a number of successful ab- dominal sections during pregnancy without abortion. We have also seen a successful amputation of the femur in a woman advanced in pregnancy, and Keen has had a successful amputation of the hip-joint in a pregnant woman. Malignant growths sometimes seem to develop slowly during the period of pregnancy, and after gestation again assume active growth, so that in such cases it is wise to postpone operative interference until after childbirth. The growth of cancer of the breast is, however, often very rapid during pregnancy and lactation. Operations should as far as possible be avoided during menstruation and lactation. The question of operating during the prevalence of epidemics should be carefully considered by the surgeon, and, as a rule, unless the case be a most urgent one, operative interference should be postponed until different con- ditions prevail. Operations should also be avoided if possible during very hot weather, although the ordinary weather of summer cannot be consid- ered unfavorable for operative procedures. This should be particularly observed in the case of young children, as hot weather often gives rise to diarrhoeal troubles, which complicate unfavorably the result of an opera- tion. We have seen both children aud adults die of heat-stroke or heat-