60 TUBERCULOUS ABSCESSES. In other cases the disease begins in the bone and affects the joints second- arily. In the peritoneal and the pleural cavities, abscesses may be formed, limited by adhesions. Or thick layers of fibrin may be deposited, pro- ducing adhesions and obliterating the cavity. Or, finally, large quantities of serum may be exuded by the inflamed membrane, and but little fibrin. Similar varieties in the process are to be observed in the synovial mem- branes of the joints. Fig. 27. Tubercular osteomyelitis of head of tibia: a, tuberculous abscess partly filled with thick pus and detri- tus : b, fibrous capsule formed around abscess ; c, trabecule of bone; d, giant-cells in the bone marrow; e, fat-cells in the marrow ; /, osteoclast causing absorption of bone. X 100 diameters. (F. C. Wood, M.D.) Suppuration.—Whether or not the tubercle bacillus is capable of ex- citing the formation of pus is not settled as yet, but the weight of authority is in favor of this theory. Prudden, however, found that in order to obtain true phthisical cavities in rabbits afflicted with pulmonary tuberculosis it was necessary to inject the streptococcus into the trachea—otherwise no breaking down took place. Tuberculous abscesses are called cold ab- scesses, because they are without any of the ordinary signs of inflammation, unless pyogenic infection has occurred, and the pus is usually sterile or merely a pure culture of the tubercle bacillus. The pus or puruloid fluid contained in these abscesses is thin, white, and full of flakes of cheesy matter. Microscopically it contains fat-globules, broken-down cells, cheesy masses, and a few leucocytes. Some suppose that a double infection is necessary to start suppuration, but that when pus is once produced its formation might continue even thoiTgh the pyogenic germs died through the influence of the toxines. Tuberculous lesions readily become infected and suppurate, but, even when fully exposed to the air, they do not appear to be subject to very virulent infections—erysipelas, for instance, being rather rare even in the most neglected. If a tuberculous abscess, however, be- comes infected and is not allowed free drainage, a sharp rise of tempera- ture ensues. Cold abscesses are lined with granulation-tissue, the so-called