GONORRHOEA. 1052 the part of mercury and belladonna ointment on lint, with a well-fitting spica bandage, will be of service. As a means of aborting bubo M. K. Taylor recommends the injection into the gland of from ten to forty minims of a 1 to 60 solution of carbolic acid, and Welander uses benzoate of mercury, 1.00 ; sodium chloride, 0.3 ; and distilled water, 100, for the same purpose. If suppuration occurs, the pus may be evacuated, and the abscess- cavity irrigated, dusted with iodoform, and packed loosely with iodoform gauze. If any enlarged glands not yet broken down are found in the cavity, they must be dissected out, as they are involved in the suppurative process. Care must be exercised in removing those deeply seated to avoid injuring the femoral vessels, to which they may have become adherent through in- flammation. If the abscess-cavity becomes transformed into a chancroidal ulcer, it will demand the treatment applicable for chancroid, possibly including cauterization. Chronically enlarged glands that do not yield to milder treatment will demand extirpation, as well as those constituting the strumous bubo found in scrofulous cases and complicated by sinuses and prolonged suppuration. The treatment for serpiginous ulceration has already been described. Lymphangitis requires rest, elevation of the penis, and sedative applications. Abscesses should be opened, and when develop- ing into chancroidal ulcers should be treated as if they were primary sores. GONORRHOEA. Gonorrhoea is an inflammation most commonly found attacking the mucous membrane of the genitalia, but is occasionally present in the mucous membrane of other portions of the body, as the rectum, the conjunctiva, and, rarely, the mouth. True specific gonorrhoea is due to a micro-organism called the gonococcus of Neisser. (Plate I., Fig. 4.) This bacterium, which is found in the discharge, is a kidney-shaped coccus, commonly arranged in pairs, with the flattened edges separated by a narrow interval, and gen- erally an inhabitant of the pus-cells or attached to epithelial cells, a few being observed free. It is stained by the aqueous aniline dyes, but is de- colorized by Gram's method. A watery solution of gentian violet is most convenient for its detection. There are other organisms found in the nor- mal and inflamed urethra which may be mistaken for the gonococcus, among them the so-called pseudo-gonococcus, which must be remembered as pos- sible sources of error. Urethritis is also sometimes excited by causes other than the gonococcus, as by violent prolonged coitus, especially in combina- tion with alcoholic stimulation and the presence in the woman of an acrid leucorrhceal or menstrual discharge; by the use of instruments; by the passage of a calculus ; by masturbation ; by certain drugs taken internally, as cantharides, and by strong injections. The staphylococcus, streptococcus, and bacillus coli communis have been noted as causative agents in the pro- duction of urethritis. Urethral discharges are sometimes present in syphilis from the existence of chancre or mucous patches in the urethra, and may also occur as a result of tubercular ulceration. As predisposing causes of gonorrhoea may be mentioned phimosis, a large meatus, hypospadias, and urethral lesions from previous attacks, such as chronic thickenings and ulcerations. Prolonged copulation and alcoholic excess are factors, by ex-