FIBROID TUMOR OF THE UTERUS. 1194 Fibromyoma, or fibroid tumor, begins as an encapsulated growth in the wall of the uterus, and as it enlarges works its way either towards the cavity of the organ or to its external surface. When the tumor projects into the cavity of the organ it is called a submucous fibroid (Fig. 912), and it may have a broad base or form a polypoid growth with a narrow pedicle. This is the least frequent variety. In over one-half of the cases it lies in the substance of the wall of the organ, and is called an interstitial or mural fibroid. (Fig. 913.) When situated upon the external surface of the uterus it may be a subperitoneal growth (Fig. 912), or may make its way outward at a part not covered with peritoneum. These tumors may be multiple, and they may acquire an immense size, especially when they undergo cystic de- generation. Their relations to the uterus are various. They may grow in the wall and expand the entire uterus as if it were enlarged by pregnancy. In other cases the uterus and the tumor are connected only by a long and narrow pedicle. The intraperitoneal tumors may be pedunculated or sessile, but the larger ones are, as a rule, attached to a considerable part of the sur- face of the organ. These tumors often reach a weight of thirty or forty pounds, and one has been reported of one hundred and forty pounds. They may extend up into the abdomen as high as the ensiform cartilage. We have removed a tumor which extended up to this point, filling the entire abdomen, and yet was connected with the uterus, which was of normal size, by a pedicle not thicker than a man's thumb. Fibroids sometimes vary in size, enlarging during the menstrual epoch or in pregnancy, and undergoing partial involution afterwards. Polypi have been known to enlarge and descend into the vagina during the menses, and to retreat up into the uterine cavity between the periods. A uterus containing fibroid tumors is usually so heavy that there is a tendency to retroversion and prolapse, but when the mass has attained a certain size it gains support from the pelvic walls, and then the organ and the tumors begin to ascend into the abdomen, as in the enlargement of a normal pregnancy. The extraperitoneal fibroids have more or less tendency to grow downward into the pelvis, and even when small they may cause much distress by pressure upon the rectum or bladder, or by compressing the nerves and blood-vessels against the pelvic walls. Fibromyoma is liable to myxomatous changes or a mucoid degeneration producing large cystic cavities. The tumor may become infected through some uterine ulceration, and then rapidly breaks down and sloughs, causing sepsis. Sloughing is also sometimes the result of a twist in the pedicle of the tumor, which may be the elongated cervix uteri, the circulation being cut off. In rare instances these tumors undergo a sarcomatous or carcinomatous change, or are associated with malignant tumors, and a rapid spread of the malignant disease is the rule in such cases. More common is a softening due to telangiectasis of the blood-vessels or lymphatics. The causes of these tumors are obscure. They are usually found asso- ciated with sterility, but whether as cause or as effect is uncertain. They are most frequent between twenty-five and thirty-five years of age, and the negro race is especially liable to them. Symptoms.—The presence of a uterine fibroid does not affect the gen- eral health directly, but it may interfere mechanically with the bladder,