417 TUBERCULAR TENOSYNOVITIS. terminate in palmar abscess if it originates in the sheath of the little finger or the thumb. The symptoms of palmar abscess are pain, swelling, oedema of the dorsal surface of the hand, and marked constitutional disturbance. If not subjected to prompt treatment, the pus may burrow along the tendons and enter the forearm, involving the connective-tissue planes or the articula- tions of the carpus. If the pus does not extend in this direction, it is apt to burrow backward and point on the dorsum of the hand between the metacarpal bones. Treatment.—This consists in early and free incision of the palin ; the incision or incisions should be made over the metacarpal bones, and, to avoid injury of the superficial palmar arch, they should be made in advance of the first transverse line running across the palm of the hand. After the abscess has been freely opened, moist antiseptic dressings should be applied, and the hand and forearm should be fixed upon a splint. Early incision usually arrests the progress of the trouble, but occasionally in spite of this treatment the infection spreads to the dorsum of the hand and the forearm, in which case incisions should be made at a number of points to secure free drainage. Chronic or Tubercular Teno-Synovitis.—This affection is mani- fested by swelling and induration in and around the sheath of a tendon, due to the presence of granulation-tissue, or there may be irregular swellings, which present fluctuation, and which upon being opened are found to contain fluid and numerous whitish bodies resembling grains of rice or melon-seeds. Microscopic examination in these cases usually reveals the presence of tubercle bacilli. This disease is most frequently seen in con- nection with tendons at the wrist, ankle, and knee, and may develop after a slight injury of the tendons over these joints, such as a sprain or wrench, or may follow a tubercular affection of the joints. (Fig. 315.) The disease Fig. 315. Tubercular tenosynovitis of the tendons of the thumb. (Agnew.) runs a slow course, and even when the swelling is marked there may be little pain and very slight impairment of function. It rarely undergoes spon- taneous cure, but is more apt to become infected and suppurate, or to break down, forming a tubercular abscess. Treatment.—In cases of tubercular teno synovitis in which there is little thickening of the sheaths of the tendons and fluid is present in con- siderable quantity, the fluid should be removed by aspiration and the sac injected with iodoform emulsion, half a drachm being employed at one time, and the injections being repeated at intervals of a week. Under this method of treatment a cure may result in certain cases. Where, however, 27