DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. 591 Backward Dislocation of the Knee.—This dislocation may be complete or incomplete, and is generally due to violence received upon the front of the leer or the back of the thigh. The patella Ftp 599 is usually dislocated outward at the same time, and popliteus, and quadriceps muscles, together with the popliteal vessels, are placed upon the stretch. Symptoms.—The leg is shortened and bent for- ward or extended ; a depression exists in front of the joint, the condyles of the femur can be felt anteriorly, and the head of the tibia projects poste- riorly. Treatment.—The reduction and after-treatment of this dislocation is similar to that employed in anterior dislocation. Lateral Dislocations of the Knee.—These may be either external or internal, and are generally incomplete. In internal lateral dislocation the head of the tibia is carried inward, so that the internal condyle of the femur rests upon the outside of the internal articular surface of the head of the tibia. (Fig. 530.) In external lateral dislocation the tibia is carried exter- nally, and the external condyle of the femur rests upon the inner portion of the outer articular surface of the head of the tibia. (Fig. 531.) In either of these dislocations the patella is displaced, and there is a laceration of the lateral ligaments as well as of the crucial ligaments. Symptoms.—When the displacement is internal, the knee-joint presents a marked increase in its transverse diameter, and the internal tuberosity of the tibia can be felt upon the inner aspect of the joint; upon the outer side a prominence can be de- tected, which is the external condyle of the femur. In external dislocations two prominences can also be felt, composed of the internal condyle of the femur and the outer side of the external tuberosity of the tibia. Treatment. —Eeduction is usually accomplished without difficulty, by making extension and counter-extension and pressing the displaced bones back into their nor- Posterior dislocation of the knee. (After Agnew.) Incomplete internal dislocation of the knee. (Agnew.) Incomplete external disloca- tion of the knee. (Agnew.)