TREATMENT OF CHANCROIDS. 1050 at the frenum are peculiarly apt to be complicated by bubo, from the rich- ness of the lymphatic supply in this locality. The glands affected are those along the line of Poupart's ligament. The resulting bubo is usually classi- fied as simple or virulent (chancroidal), the former being identical with that complicating gonorrhoea or an ordinary infected wound and not necessarily going on to suppuration, while the latter is allied in virulency to the chan- croid causing it, and develops after opening into a secondary chancroid. It is claimed, however, by Strauss that the pus of even the virulent bubo is free from micro-organisms before opening, and that the development of chancroidal properties is due to secondary infection. This may be true in many cases, but chancroidal bubo is more rapid in its course and more severe in its symptoms than other forms. One or more glands may be affected, the swelling being inflammatory instead of the painless swelling of the polyganglionic bubo of syphilis, and in the case of virulent bubo rapidly goes on to suppuration, the abscess-cavity after opening being lined with a gray slough and presenting irregular edges, with, in some cases (whether as a result of secondary inoculation or not), an auto-inoculable secretion. In strumous subjects there is a tendency to an indolent inflammation of a num- ber of glands, forming a large swelling, perhaps suppurating, and resulting in the formation of numerous fistulae, with periglandular suppuration and a long-standing discharge. Chancroidal bubo, as already mentioned, may be a starting-point for serpiginous ulceration. Diagnosis.—Chancroid must be separated from other ulcers found on the genitalia, those with which it is most likely to be confused being the chancre, herpetic ulceration, ulcerative balanitis, and mucous patches. From chancre it may be differentiated by the rapid onset after exposure, the punched-out appearance of the ulcers, which are usually multiple, the auto-inoculable secretion, the absence of cartilaginous induration, and the non-development of constitutional symptoms. Herpetic ulceration may be an idiopathic pro- cess, or, like balanitis, result from irritation and uncleanliness, the lesions being shallow and irregular, not auto-inoculable or destructive, and not apt to be complicated by bubo. Mucous patches do not have the characteristic appearance of chancroid, and are associated with signs of general syphilis. In any case of doubt as to the diagnosis of chancroid, auto-inoculation will be the crucial test. Treatment.—In the ordinary case of chancroid, the first thing to be considered is the question of converting it into a simple ulcer, thus destroy- ing its power of auto-inoculation and lessening the chances of bubo. It was formerly the universal practice to cauterize chancroids freely, but at present the results following the antiseptic treatment of such sores have been so satisfactory that destructive cauterization is reserved for special cases. In well-to-do patients who are careful as to cleanliness, unless phagedena occurs, cauterization is seldom required, while in dispensary practice it is often safer to employ it, as these patients are careless as regards the care of the sore. Cleansing of the ulcers with peroxide of hydrogen, and their daily irrigation with a 1 to 500 or 1 to 1000 bichloride solution, followed by the application of powdered iodoform, aristol, iodol, or ace- tanilid, or the use of an ointment of iodoform or aristol, 3i; ungt. petrolat.,