S] ETIOLOGY OF TUMORS. by the force of a blow by some pointed object, entirely detached from the skiu, and lodged in the deeper parts, and that this fragment of epithelial tissue tends to roll up at once, with the epithelial cells inside and the corium out- side, the latter forming a capsule by the uniting of its edges. The epithelial cells then grow in the centre and distend this closed capsule, producing the typical cyst. Usually the epithelial cells die and degenerate in the centre, making a cheesy mass, the tumor resembling a sebaceous cyst, but occasion- ally they remain viable, and a solid epithelial growth may result, as has been reported in one case on the forehead. These cysts are relatively frequent on the palmar surface of the hand. As there are no sebaceous glands on the palms, and as dermoid cysts do not form here, these two varieties of tumors are easily excluded in the diagnosis, and a clear history of antecedent trau- matism can often be obtained for the epithelial cysts. Parasitic Theory.—Eecently an attempt has been made to revive the so-called germ theory, referring all tumors to a parasitic origin. The para- site now favored, however, is not a bacterium, but an animal parasite known as a coceidium. The majority of pathologists believe that the grounds on which this theory is based are insufficient, and that the appearances in the cancer-cells which are supposed to be the parasites, their products, or their eggs, are certain alterations of the cells or their nuclei. Trophic Influences.—It has long been known that certain vaso-motor or other reflex influences control the growth of tumors, multiple fatty tumors of the skin or of the subcutaneous connective tissue being very common in certain forms of central nervous disorders, but the bearing of the latter upon the etiology of tumors is not yet understood. Age.—Sarcoma and nearly all the connective-tissue group are common in both young and old, but the malignant epithelial tumors are unusual before middle life. Thiersch has pointed out that in old age certain changes take place in the tissues, with a tendency to overgrowth of the epithelium and atrophy of the connective tissue, especially in such organs as the lip and the tongue (Woodhead), the epithelial cells also tending to penetrate the con- nective tissue. Thiersch supposes that there is a loss of balance of growth between the two tissues, and that their relations therefore become irregular; but it is probable that the changes which occur in old age ai-e only predis- posing causes, and that some irritation is needed also in order to produce the growth. Aside from the necessarily congenital tumors (dermoids) and angioma, neoplasms are rarely seen in the new-born. Children are less likely to have malignant tumors than adults, but even the malignant epithe- lial tumors are occasionally found in very early life. Sex.—The influence of sex is of less importance, except in the sexual organs: the breast in the male, for instance, is an atrophied organ, and malignant tumors in it are rare, whereas in the female it is one of the parts most commonly affected. There are, however, some curious exceptions. Epithelioma of the lip, for instance, is rare in women. When it does occur in women it is found in the large majority of cases on the upper lip, whereas in men, in whom epithelioma of the lip is very common, the lower lip is almost invariably the one attacked. Carcinoma of the tongue is also said to be rare in women, but the statistics need revision upon this point. 6