DIAGNOSIS OF OSTEOMYELITIS. 519 albuminous osteomyelitis or periosteal ganglion. It is a rare affection, and one which can be definitely diagnosed only after an incision has been made. Symptoms.—The disease is usually ushered in by a chill or rigor, which is followed by high fever, and the local symptoms of the affection may be accompanied by the development of a condition of profound septic intoxica- tion, the patient passing into a typhoid state, with stupor and delirium. Pain is an early and persistent symptom, is of a gnawing or boring char- acter, and is usually located in the end of one of the long bones. It may not be distinctly limited to the area of bone involved, but may extend to the shaft of the bone and adjacent joints. It is usually more severe at night, increases with the elevation of temperature and also with the extent of the exudation, and very materially diminishes if perforation of the bone occurs and the inflammatory exudations escape into the surrounding tissues. In cases of multiple osteomyelitis pain may not be a prominent symptom. Tenderness onpresswe, which is probably due to secondary periostitis, is most marked as the disease approaches the surface of the bone, but is often present early in the disease before any swelling has made its appearance. Tenderness on pressure is both a valuable diagnostic sign and an impor- tant guide to the surgeon in determining the position at which the medulla should be exposed by operation. Swelling.—From the fact that the primary inflammation is located in the interior of the bone, swelling is not marked until the periosteum and the connective tissue become involved. (Edema of the connective tissue from thrombo-phlebitis and enlargement of superficial veins may cause the earliest swelling at the seat of disease, but when the bone and the periosteum have been perforated and pus escapes into the connective tissue the swelling becomes marked, and fluctuation can be elicited. Redness.—This is not present in the early stages of the disease, but ap- pears after the pus has escaped from the bone and approaches the surface. Loss of function is also a conspicuous clinical feature of this affection; the patient is unable to move the limb or the adjacent joint. Spontaneous fracture or separation of the epiphysis from the diaphysis may occur, or synovitis of an adjacent joint, either simple or suppurative, may be present; these latter symptoms are met with later in the disease. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of spontaneous osteomyelitis is often difficult at the beginning of the disease ; if the infection is very virulent, the symp- toms of profound septic intoxication may cause the case to resemble one of typhoid fever, but- the sudden appearance and severity of the constitutional symptoms, with the continued high temperature, and the absence of the daily rise common in the early history of typhoid fever, will distinguish it from that disease. Owing to the fact that the disease is apt to start about the epiphyseal lines, there may be pain, swelling, and loss of function in an adjacent joint; the disease is very apt to be confounded with acute rheuma- tism, but careful examination will show that the pain is near but not in the joint, and the greatest tenderness upon pressure will be noticed over the bone near the epiphyseal line, which would not be the case in acute rheu- matism ; the boring, gnawing character of the pain in osteomyelitis will also serve to distinguish it from the pain of the former affection. We believe