874 CHAPTER XXXI. SURGERY OF THE CHEST. Contusions of the Chest.—Contusions of the chest unaccompanied by wounds of the thoracic viscera are usually not serious injuries. The most prominent symptom is painful respiration, and there may develop later ecchymosis from injury of the blood-vessels. It is probable that ruany cases of severe contusion of the chest have associated with them fracture of the ribs, which is often a more difficult injury to diagnose than would be supposed, from the fact that displacement of the fragments is prevented by the attachment of the intercostal muscles. The pectoral muscles may be partially torn from their insertions and a hsematoma may be present. Treatment.—The treatment of contusions of the chest consists in pre- venting motion upon the side of the injury by the application of strips of adhesive plaster. These should be applied as for cases of fracture of the ribs. Abscess may result from contusion of the soft parts or from the breaking down of a hgeinatoina, and when present should be promptly opened and drained, with full aseptic precautions. Contusion of the Chest with Rupture of the Thoracic Vis- cera.—Laceration of the lung without fracture of the ribs is a rare acci- dent, which may result from the chest being squeezed between heavy bodies or from the passage of the wheels of wagons over it. Although the injury may occur in adults, it is most commonly observed in children, in whom the elasticity of the ribs saves them from fracture. The symptoms of this injury are shock, dyspnoea, haemoptysis, pneumothorax, subcutaneous em- physema, and dulness on percussion if there has been free hemorrhage. If the patient survives for a few days, pleurisy will be present, and a purulent collection may also develop in the chest at a later period. The prognosis in this injury is always grave, the majority of patients dying within a few days. We have recently had under our observation three cases of contusion of the chest with rupture of the lung, all in children ; two of them died within five days, the third recovered after a protracted illness. Treatment.—In these cases the condition of shock, which is usually very marked, should be treated by the application of external warmth, and the use of cardiac stimulants. If, after reaction has occurred, the respira- tory movements are painful, the chest should be strapped and opium admin- istered freely, and, if there is evidence of hemorrhage, ergot should also be employed. The patient may develop pleurisy, and may have later a purulent collection in the pleural cavity, both of which conditions call for appropriate treatment. Concussion of the Chest.—In addition to the previously described injury, there occasionally occurs as the result of force applied to the chest