STAPHYLORRHAPHY. 774 Fig. 686. the nose, are generally good, but the tone of the voice and the defective articulation are not often much changed; the latter, after closure of the cleft, may be much improved by systematic training. The operation is not devoid of risk, patients occasionally dying from shock, hemorrhage, or septic pneumonia. The plastic operations which are practised to remedy this defect are staphylorrhaphy, which consists in freshening and uniting the edges of the fissure of the soft palate, and uranoplasty, which consists in a plastic opera- tion for the closure of the cleft in the hard palate. In complete clefts of the hard and of the soft palate these operations are combined. Staphylorrhaphy.—The patient should be anaesthetized, and the shoul- ders raised by a pillow so that the head falls far back ; a gag should next be introduced to hold the jaws widely apart (Fig. 686.) The lower edge of the soft pal- ate is grasped on one side with long toothed forceps, a narrow-bladed knife introduced into the tissues at the edge of the gap, and a thin strip of tissue removed. The same procedure is repeated upon the opposite side. Sutures of silk, silver wire, or silkworm-gut (the latter material is best) are next introduced through the edges of the flaps of the soft palate, with curved needles fixed in long handles and having an eye near the point. (Fig. 687.) After the needle has been passed through the tissues on one side it is threaded and withdrawn, and the needle for the other side is passed through the tissues and is threaded with the other end of the suture and withdrawn. Sutures are applied in this way until a sufficient number have been introduced to approximate the edges of the gap, when each suture is tightened and clamped with a per- forated shot. Incisions are next made in the soft palate with a tenotome, to divide the palatal muscles; the knife should be entered internal to the hamular process, and made to cut upward until the muscles have been divided and the wounds gape. After the operation the patient should be Mouth-gag. Fig. 687. Staphylorrhaphy needles. kept in bed for a week or ten days, being given only liquid nourishment and not allowed to talk, and the mouth being washed out after taking food with a mild antiseptic solution. At the end of ten days the sutures should be removed.