DIAGNOSIS OF HYDROCELE. 1148 Fig. 861. Double hydrocele neuni and tuberculosis of the tunica vaginalis are frequently associated in these cases, on account of the free communication between the cavities. A serous effusion into the tunica is a frequent accompaniment to inflammation of the testicles, whether it be gonorrhoeal, traumatic, or tubercular, but this sympto- matic hydrocele seldom reaches a size demanding treatment unless the tension is so great as to cause pain and necessitate aspiration. The actual beginning of the accumula- tion of fluid in the sac cannot be ascer- tained in the great majority of cases of hydrocele. Without pain or other sensa- tions, the patient notices that one side of the scrotum is a little fuller than the other, and that the swelling has begun at the bottom of the scrotum about the testicle. The swelling at first is soft, but soon becomes tense, and increases in size, until in some cases the scrotum extends nearly to the knees. The increase is usually very slow, and a year is required for the swelling to attain the size of a man's fist. The patient is disturbed only by its weight and bulk, although in rare instances the sac may rupture or suppurate, and he seldom consults the surgeon until it has been in existence for some time. In about one-fifth of the cases there is a hydrocele on both sides. (Fig. 861.) Diagnosis.—Examination shows a tense or fluctuating swelling, occupy- ing one-half of the scrotum, rather pear-shaped, with no impulse on cough- ing, and the tumor weighed in the hand feels rather light. If a light is held close to one side of the scrotum, the swelling is found to be translucent. As a rule, it will be necessary to use an opaque tube of pasteboard or other material in order to shut out the diffused light, or even to make the test in a dark room, to obtain satisfactory results if the sac is thick. The translucency of a hydrocele varies according to the thickness of the sac-wall, and when it is very translucent the shadow of the testicle is distinctly seen. The normal position of the testicle is at the lower back part of the sac, the natural position of the epididymis and of the cord being posterior. In some cases, however, the gland is congenitally turned in the opposite direction, the epididymis being in front and the cord running down the anterior surface of the sac. Occasionally the testicle can be felt through the sac wall. The diagnosis of hydrocele from hernia and from tumors of the testicle and scrotum has been fully given in the chapter on hernia. It should be borne in mind that hydrocele and hernia are often associated. In the ordinary cases no difficulty should be met with in making the diagnosis, for the symptom of translucency is not present in hernia, hematocele, or any other scrotal tumor, except in the very thin-walled in- testinal hernia of infants. The last named condition is not likely to be mis- taken for hydrocele, because only an irreducible hernia would resemble