53 GLANDERS. In some cases local patches of gangrene appear on the skin, with the forma- tion of blebs. The pain is not always severe, and at first the constitutional reaction is slight, but the temperature soon rises, and the usual signs of septicaemia develop, with rapid and great prostration. Treatment.—Carbuncular Form.—In the first twenty-four or forty- eight hours after the appearance of the lesion it remains strictly local, and a general infection can be avoided by immediately cutting out the entire area of skin affected, with a liberal allowance of the healthy skin about it. The wound will then heal like an ordinary wound, and the patient recover. In the oedematous form of the disease, also, excision of the parts first affected with cauterization of the wound will sometimes effect a cure, if the disease is not too extensive; but, as a rule, operative treatment will be impossible. Injections of carbolic acid in a solution of water and glycerin (1 to 10) may be made into the surrounding tissues in order to limit the growth of the bacillus, but even this will be difficult because of the large area to be surrounded by the injection and the consecuxent danger of carbolic poisoning. General supporting treatment will be necessary. The infection of anthrax takes place, as a rule, through the blood-vessels, the internal capillaries being finally blocked by plugs formed of the rapidly growing germs which thrive in the blood. Lymphangitis and adenitis are not common unless there be a mixed infection with pyogenic germs as well, but in some cases the glands enlarge, and it has been recommended to remove them when the primary lesion is excised. Recently a series of thirteen cases has been reported from Von Bramann's clinic, many of them of the severest type of the disease, all of which recovered practically without treatment, the part infected being simply elevated and covered with blue ointment, the patient being kept in bed and vigorously stimulated. Von Bramann was led to this mode of treatment by the observation of Midler that, about the time when the surrounding oedema developed, the bacilli in the primary lesion had entirely lost their virulence and were innocuous, the remaining symptoms being due only to their toxines. He therefore concluded that man was refractory to the anthrax bacillus and with a little assistance his tissues would resist the germs. GLANDERS Glanders is also known as farcy or ecpiinia (Fr. Morve; Ger. Rotz- krankheit), and is prevalent in horses and mules. It is also, but rarely, observed in man, being contracted from these animals. It is caused by the bacillus mallei (Loeffler, Schiitz) (Plate II., Fig. 23), a rod-shaped mi- crobe, somewhat shorter and thicker than the tubercle bacillus (2 to 5 micro- millimetres long and 0.5 to 1.4 micromillimetre thick), motile, multiplying by segmentation—and, according to some, by spores. It is easily killed by ten minutes' exposure to a heat of 131° F. (55° G), or five minutes in 1 to 20 carbolic acid or 1 to 5000 corrosive sublimate. It grows in the usual media, making white or yellow thread-like colonies. The bacillus is a true parasite, living only in animals, but it can remain alive in the dry state for long periods, so that dried secretions may be dangerous, although few bac- teria can be found in the nasal discharge.