HYPERTROPHY OF THE TONSILS. 786 to the suffering. Tonsillitis is most frequent in young adults, apparently having some connection with rheumatism, and the administration of bi- carbonate of sodium or of the salicylates may abort the inflammation and prevent suppuration. Treatment.—The abscess usually points just external to the anterior pillar of the fauces, and the pus should be evacuated in that situation with a bistoury wound with plaster nearly to the point, which should be directed straight backward in order to avoid the internal carotid artery, which lies just at the outer side. The incision should be free, and cocaine may be employed if necessary. The abscess may point posterior to the tonsil, where it is difficult to reach the pus. Sometimes it is possible to evacuate the pus by passing a director into one of the lacunae of the tonsil. Hypertrophy.—Hypertrophy of the tonsils is a common affection in children, generally as the result of repeated attacks of inflammation. The tonsils are sometimes so large that they meet in the middle line and cause a fulness in the neck at the angle of the jaw. The child may be forced to breathe through the mouth, for the tonsils obstruct the naso-pharynx and the third tonsil is usually enlarged at the same time, and the child may acquire a peculiar idiotic appearance. The affection is most common in the so-called strumous or scrofulous diathesis, in which there is a tendency to enlargement of all the lymphatic glands. The hypertrophied tonsil may be normal in structure, but the fibrous stroma is usually more abundant. Treatment.—Hypertrophied tonsils require removal, which may be accomplished by catching the tonsil with long toothed forceps and drawing it well out towards the median line and then slicing it off with a sharp, probe-pointed curved bistoury. A tonsillotome renders the operation easier, and the simplest form of instrument is the best. No anaesthetic is required. The hemorrhage is sometimes excessive, but is readily controlled by ice or by pressure. Pressure may be applied by a pair of forceps the ends of which are long enough to reach frorn the angle of the lips back to the tonsil, one branch being inserted in the mouth and the other resting on the cheek, both being supplied with broad ends and thick pads. Small calculi occasionally form in the crypts of the tonsil, but seldom reach a size large enough to require an operation for their removal. Neoplasms of the tonsil are not common, and benign growths are es- pecially rare. Sarcoma forms tumors of considerable size with a tendency to spread into the adjacent soft parts, being rapid in their course. Epithe- lioma develops in the tonsil, and can be recognized by the induration, ulceration, and brittle granulations with a tendency to bleed. The tumors are usually not observed until it is too late to operate ; but if the diagnosis can be made sufficiently early, and the tonsil thoroughly removed before the surrounding parts are involved, a cure can undoubtedly be effected. Treatment.—The tonsil can be removed by Mikulicz's operation of pharyngotomy (page 788), or by splitting the cheek backward to the ramus of the jaw in the line of the mouth. These operations are to be preferred to the more extensive and mutilating methods of dividing or sacrificing large portions of the lower jaw. Large tumors should be left untouched, as it is impossible to obtain a cure.