LIGATION OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 379 artery are the descendens noni nerve and anterior jugular vein in front of the artery ; behind the vessel are the sympathetic and recurrent laryngeal nerves and inferior thyroid artery ; internal to the vessel are the trachea, larynx, pharynx, recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the branches of the inferior thyroid artery ; and externally are placed the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve in the sheath with the artery. The point of election for the ligation of the common carotid artery is just above the omo hyoid muscle, about three-quarters of an inch below the bifurcation of the vessel. The common carotid is superficial at this point, and is tied with greater ease, but it occasionally happens that the surgeon is compelled to tie the vessel lower down ; when he does so, it may be tied just below the omo- hyoid or a short distance above its origin from the innominate. Operation.—The patient should be placed in the recumbent position, the shoulders raised and thrown back, the head supported upon a pillow and turned somewhat to the opposite side. The incision for the common carotid artery is three inches in length, along the anterior border of the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle, the centre of which corresponds with the cricoid cartilage. (Fig. 283, h.) The skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides, and deep fascia are next divided upon the director, when the anterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is exposed ; the interspace between this muscle and the sterno hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles is then exposed and the latter muscles displaced inward, wrhen the artery will be found with the jugular vein external to it, and the descendens noni nerve lying upon the sheath. The sheath of the vessels is next picked up and opened, and the artery is carefully separated from it with a director; the artery lies inter- nally, the internal jugular vein externally and somewhat more superficially, and the pneumogastric nerve lies between the two and is more deeply placed. The sympathetic nerve is behind the vessel external to the sheath. The needle should be passed from without inward, care being taken to avoid injury of the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve. Collateral Circulation.—When the common carotid artery is tied, the circulation is restored to the upper part of the neck and head by inos- culation between the inferior thy- roid arteries from the thyroid axis and the superior thyroid arteries from the external carotids, and also between the ascending branches of the transversalis colli from the thy- roid axis and the princeps cervicis from the occipital. (Fig. 284.) There is also free communication between the internal and the ex- ternal carotid, both outside of and within the skull. Ligation of the External Carotid Artery.—The external carotid artery extends from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage upward and Collateral circulation after ligation of the common carotid artery. (Agnew.)