FEMORAL AND UMBILICAL HERNIA. 978 genital herniae the cord may be quite prominent on the inner side of the sac, and may have a sort of mesentery. It would be natural to suppose that in direct herniae the cord would lie on the external side of the sac, but it is fre- quently found on the inner side or spread over its surface, as if the protru- sion had taken place through its tissues. The relations of the testicle to the sac are very variable. In acquired hernia the gland is usually found below and distinct from the sac, and in the congenital form it lies within the sac, but generally it can be found readily by palpation. The coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia when complete are the skin, superficial fascia, inter- columnar fascia, cremaster muscle (absent in the female), infundibular fas- cia, preperitoneal fat, and peritoneal sac. In a bubonocele the external and internal oblique muscles take the place of the intercolumnar and cremasteric fasciae. In a direct hernia the coverings are the skin, superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, conjoined tendon (sometimes absent), transversalis fascia, preperitoneal fat, and peritoneal sac. Femoral Hernia.—Femoral hernia issues by the femoral ring, is seldom as large as the inguinal variety, and is found in women three times as often as in men. It is not often as large as the fist, and is usually smaller than a hen's egg. It is much more liable to strangulation than the inguinal variety. The protrusion takes place between the femoral vein and Gimbernat's liga- ment, and presents in the upper part of Scarpa's triangle, but may be turned upward over Poupart's ligament. The coverings of the sac are the skin, the superficial fascia, the cribriform fascia, the sheath of the femoral vessels, the femoral septum, the preperitoneal fat, and the peritoneal sac. The epigas- tric artery lies on the outer side of the neck, and the obliterated hypogastric artery on the inner side. There are rare forms which pass external or inter- nal to these vessels, penetrate Gimbernat's ligament, or even issue external to the femoral vessels. In a certain small proportion of cases the obturator artery has an abnormal origin, passing above or anterior to the neck of the sac, and then descending along its inner border. Umbilical Hernia.—Umbilical herniae are of two varieties. One issues through the normal umbilical opening, and when it occurs at birth it may extend for some distance down into the substance of the cord, the vessels being expanded over its surface, forming a hernia of the cord. The ordi- nary variety breaks through the aponeurosis close to the edge of the umbil- ical ring, and occurs more frequently in later life. Infants of both sexes are equally liable to umbilical hernia, but in adult life it is most common in women over forty years of age, and especially in stout persons. The cover- ings of an umbilical hernia are merely the skin, the superficial fascia, the preperitoneal fat, and the peritoneal sac, and they are generally very thin, with a tendency to ulceration and superficial sloughing. The omentum protrudes first into the sac, followed almost invariably by the large intes- tine, the omentum covering the bowel, and usually being adherent and irre- ducible. The tumor may be so small as to be scarcely perceptible, or it may attain an immense size, containing a large part of the intestine. The large hernias are frequently obstructed, causing constipation and colicky pains. The smaller tumors are liable to strangulation, which pursues a more acute and fatal course than in other ruptures.