611 PANNUS SYNOVITIS. Symptoms.—In a case of tubercular arthritis the marked swelling of the joint is due to the production of excessive granulation-tissue, which may undergo degeneration, becoming softened and cedematous, and the appear- ance of the joint changes, becoming spindle-shaped, as the softened liga- ments offer little resistance to the growing granulations. The skin over the joint is white and thickened, and palpation will often elicit a sensation of fluctuation, which is present only when the synovial sacs are distended with serous effusion or pus. Pain in synovial tuberculosis is usually slight, but may be more marked in the joint tuberculosis which originates in the bone ; it may be elicited by pressure or by certain motions. The temperature of the patient may be slightly elevated, and the joint may feel hot to the touch. Deformity is present in all cases to a greater or less degree, depending upon the joint involved, the extent of softening and degeneration of the ligaments, the tendency to assume certain attitudes to secure relief from pain, and mus- cular spasm induced by reflex irritation. Muscular spasm is one of the first and most important symptoms of joint tuberculosis, and consists in a reflex muscular spasm, which is manifested by an unconscious automatic contrac- tion of the muscles, producing rigidity and fixation of the joint. Impairment of joint motion may be slight at first, but as the disease advances it becomes a prominent symptom. Caseation and liquefaction of the granulations cov- ering the synovial membrane may occur, and the pus, so called, accumulates in the cavity of the joint, and finally perforates the capsule, forming sinuses. During this process the granulations are destroyed, the tubercle bacilli pene- trate the deeper tissues, and the patient is exposed to the risks of general tubercular infection. If upon spontaneous or intentional opening of such a joint pyogenic organisms enter the joint, there is aggravation of the local condition of the diseased joint and of the patient's constitutional condition. Pannus Synovitis.—In this form of synovitis or arthritis the tuber- cles are present in great numbers widely disseminated over the synovial membranes, but are rarely visible to the naked eye. From the border of the articular cartilages a thin layer of granulations approaches the centre of the joint, the vascularity of the membrane is marked, and the ligaments and periarticular structures are but slightly affected. There is sometimes a large serous effusion in the joint. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis between primary osteal and primary synovial tuberculosis is often a matter of difficulty. In cases of the fungous variety of the disease involving superficial joints, if well advanced, and if it has gone on to the formation of abscess or sinus, the recognition of the disease is not difficult. This joint affection may be confounded with syphilitic arthritis, with which it has some points in common, but the latter affection is quite rare, except in children, and careful examination will often show other evidences of syphilis. In primary osteo-tuberculosis of joints, aside from the circumscribed points of tenderness over certain parts of the joint, if the disease is not far advanced, the loss of function, swelling, and muscu- lar resistance may be so little marked that it will be difficult to say that the affection exists. If, however, any of the symptoms are present, the patient should be given the benefit of the doubt and treated as if joint tuberculosis were actually present.