IRITIS. 819 tional disease which has caused the iritis, and exhibition of suitable remedies to counteract its influence. Third, suppression of pain, which is very severe, by the use of hot compresses, bloodletting from the temple, especially with Swedish leeches, and the internal administration of analgesics. It is customary to divide iritis, which may be acute, subacute, or chronic, into three chief varieties, plastic, parenchymatous, and serous, these names indicating the pathological characters of the inflammation. Simple plastic iritis may be due to syphilis, rheumatism, which are the two most frequent causes, gonorrhoea, gout, and diabetes and other con- stitutional complaints. It may also follow injury, and sometimes appears when neither local nor constitutional disease seems to be present. Syphilis is the cause of plastic iritis in from thirty to sixty per cent, of the cases. It generally appears from the second to the ninth month after the initial lesion, but may be delayed until the eighteenth month. It does not differ in appearance from non-syphilitic types of iritis, and therefore cannot be said to be diagnostic of the disease which has caused it. Its treatment should consist of the measures already described under the general treatment of iritis, together with those suited to the stage of syphilis in which it occurs. Of these measures the best, in the judgment of the author, are inunctions of mercury, followed by iodide of potassium. In some instances cure is hastened by the subconjunctival injection of bichloride of mercury (two drops of a 1 to 2000 solution), or by a similar injection of a physiological salt solution. Rheumatic iritis should be treated locally precisely as any other form of plastic iritis, and constitutionally with remedies which will counteract the rheumatic or gouty diathesis. It is more apt to relapse than other forms of iritis, and is probably more painful than most types. Gonorrhoeal iritis usually does not coincide with nor follow the gon- orrhoeal attack. Almost always an arthritis of the knee, sometimes of the ankle, supervenes. In addition to the ordinary treatment of iritis, both local and constitutional, profuse sweats with pilocarpine are efficient. Parenchymatous iritis may be caused by syphilis, infectious diseases, particularly recurrent fever, pneumonia, typhus, typhoid fever, and septi- caemia, and may follow traumatism. Syphilitic parenchymatous iritis, or, as it is frequently called, gummatous iritis, appears in the late secondary stages of syphilis, and is characterized, in addition to the ordinary symptoms of iritis, by the ap- pearance of one or more yellowish or reddish-yellow nodules, varying in size from a hemp-seed to a small pea, situated in the tissue of the iris. True gumma of the iris, which occurs as a solitary yellowish growth, almost constantly at the ciliary border, and usually involving the ciliary body, appears at a period in which gummata are common in other portions of the body. The treatment is the same as that for any other type of syphilitic iritis, although the author has usually found that massive doses of iodide of potas- sium answer a better therapeutic purpose than mercury. The treatment of traumatic iritis does not differ from that of the other varieties, except that iced compresses should be employed.