VARIETIES OF BACTERIA. 13 in erysipelas. The streptococcus occasionally causes osteomyelitis, but much more rarely than the staphylococcus. Micrococcus gonorrhoeae (or gonococcus) (Neisser) (Plate L, Fig. 4) will be described with the disease which it produces. Bacillus pyocyaneus (Gessard) (Plate L, Fig. 5) is rather a common pyogenic germ, which occurs in the skin and perspiration as a motile body. It grows in cultures at ordinary temperatures, and has the power of liquefy- ing the gelatin, producing a bluish-green color in free oxygen. It is found in pus, to which it gives a blue or green color, sometimes quite vivid. Bacillus coli communis (Emmerich) (Plate L, Fig. 6) is an important bacterium found in the intestinal contents, in peritoneal exudates, in the urine with cystitis, and occasionally in abscesses. It is a short rod, 2 to 3 mieromillitnetres long and 0.4 to 0.6 micromillimetre thick, sometimes oval in shape and resembling a micrococcus, motile (having flagella), and occurring in pairs or chains. It stains with the ordinary dyes, but is de- colorized by Gram's method. It is easily cultivated, and forms a thin film or a projecting mass on the surface of the medium, of lobulated shape, a yellow color, and granulated appearance. It grows either with or with- out free oxygen. The cultures are acid, do not liquefy gelatin, but de- compose sugar. No spores have been seen. It can be inoculated in animals, causing the same local suppurations or general infections as in man. Pneumococcus or micrococcus lanceolatus (Frankel) (Plate I., Fig. 7) and B. typhi abdominalis (Plate I., Fig. 8) are also capable of causing suppurative inflammation in the cellular tissues and elsewhere, but do not« need description here. B. diphtheriae (Klebs, Loeffler) (Plate I., Fig. 9) has a certain amount of surgical importance, as it has in rare instances been observed in wounds, but so seldom that it merely requires mention. The other more important bacteria—those of malignant oedema, anthrax, glanders, tuberculosis, lep- rosy, tetanus, and also the micrococcus of Eosenbach's peculiar erysipelatoid eruption—will be described with the diseases which they produce.