288 AMPUTATIONS OF THE TOES. in its middle third or disarticulated from the sternum, and, its outer portion being lifted up, it is disarticulated at its acromial extremity. The subcla- vian vessels are thus exposed, and should be tied by two ligatures, about an inch apart, and the vessels should finally be divided between the ligatures. The axillary plexus of nerves should next be divided. The second incision is made at the Fig. 221. Lines of incision for amputation above Result of amputation above the the shoulder-joint. (Treves.) shoulder-joint. of the first incision over the clavicle a third incision should be made pos- teriorly, across the dorsum of the scapula to its inferior angle, joining the termination of the second incision. (Fig. 220.) Upon turning back the posterior flap thus formed and severing the connections of the scapula with the trunk and the muscular attachments which remain anteriorly, the upper extremity will be entirely freed from the trunk. Any small vessels which bleed should be secured, and, after introducing a drainage-tube, the flaps should be brought together with sutures ; the wound when closed forms an oblique line running from above downward, outward, and backward; a copious gauze dressing should be applied and held in position by a bandage. The condition resulting from an amputation above the shoulder-joint is shown in Fig. 221. AMPUTATIONS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Amputations of the Toes.—The amputation of a toe may be accom- plished through the continuity of the phalanx, or an interphalangeal dis- articulation may be effected ; the latter is the preferable operation. Phalanges of the toes may be removed in the same manner as those of the fingers, by a racket-shaped incision. (Fig. 222.) It is better to amputate at the meta- tarso-phalangeal articulation than to attempt to remove them in front of this articulation, except in the case of the great toe, as the preservation of a por- tion of the other toes is often a discomfort rather than an advantage. Care should be taken to make the incision in such a manner that the result- ing cicatrix shall not occupy the plantar surface; if, however, it is desired