PERIOD OF AMPUTATION. 267 Amputation of leg by Teale's method. (Bryant.) ferenee of the limb. The flaps are cut from without inward, and embrace all the tissues of the limb down to the bone. After the flaps have been dis- sected up, the bone is divided with a saw, and after the bleeding has been arrested the long flap is folded over and sutured to the short flap. (Fig. 190.) The disadvantages of this method of amputation are that in muscular limbs it requires the bone to be divided at a higher point than would otherwise be necessary, and there is also liability to sloughing of the long flap. Periosteal Flaps.—In any of the methods of amputation previously de- scribed the periosteum may be dissected up in two flaps attached to the muscles, or pushed up as a sleeve by means of a director or periosteotome before the bone is sawed. This procedure is most easily accomplished in young subjects. When periosteal flaps have been made before closing the wound, they should be brought dowu over the end of the bone and their edges approximated by a continuous catgut suture. In this way the periosteum covers the cut surface of the bone, to which it soon forms adhesions. Relative Value of the Different Methods—It is well for the suxgeon to have in mind the different methods of amputation, for he should not confine himself to any one method, but should practise the procedure which seems to him best adapted for the special case. In many cases the laceration of the tissues or other conditions may prevent the performance of any formal operation, and in such cases the surgeon may have to cut his flaps and modify the operation according to the conditions presented. In amputations just above the ankle or in the forearm, the circular method is quite satisfactory. In the leg, some form of the flap or the modified circular method can be practised Avith the best results ; while in the arm and thigh the modified circular method is the one generally employed. At the knee or elbow the oval or the elliptical method is usually practised. The opera- tions for particular parts of the extremities will be considered in discussing Special Amputations. Period of Amputation.—Amputations may be done in the primary, the intermediary, or the secondary period. The primary period is the time before traumatic fever has developed. In cases of injury the surgeon should, if possible, amputate during this period, but he will often have to delay the operation for some hours, if the patient is suffering from shock, until reaction has occurred. The intermediary period is that after traumatic or septic fever has developed: this is not considered a favorable period in which to undertake amputation. The secondary period is that after sup- puration or septic inflammation has developed and has gradually subsided. This is a comparatively favorable period for amputation. These various periods are not now so clearly defined as formerly, since the introduction