HYSTERICAL AFFECTION OF JOINTS. 606 many of the symptoms of arthritis deformans, and occurring in patients suf- fering from locomotor ataxia. The disease is more acute in its course than the ordinary osteo-arthritis, and affects the larger joints, particularly the knee-joint. Symptoms.—The disease begins acutely with an effusion into the joint, which is unaccompanied by pain or elevation of temperature, and soon undergoes absorption or organization; later degeneration of the articular cartilages, periarticular structures, and bone occurs, and there is often great enlargement of the ends of the bones by osteophytes, very simi- lar to those seen in osteo-arthritis. Grating of the joint upon motion is present, and relaxation and degeneration of the ligaments often give rise to great mobility or partial or complete dislocation of the joint. Eapid muscu- lar atrophy is observed at the same time. Degeneration of the bones in the region of the joint may cause fracture upon slight provocation. Treatment. —The treatment for this condition is that appropriate for locomotor ataxia, the joint at the same time being protected by the application of a splint or apparatus which serves to limit the motion and prevent displacement. Hysterical Affection of Joints.—This affection consists in a pain- ful condition of the j oints, and is most commonly seen in young women ; the joints most frequently affected are the hip and the knee. It may arise after a slight injury or sprain of the joint, or without apparent cause. Symptoms.—The patient complains of pain in the joint and refuses to move it; the overlying skin is kypersesthetic, there is no marked swelling, and the joint may be maintained in a position of flexion or extension, al- though it is generally observed that the amount of flexion or extension is changed from day to day, and the flexion is not like that which is common in arthritis. Muscular atrophy is present from disuse. Superficial pressure produces evidence of extreme pain, while deep pressure is often painless. Fixation of the joint is usually quickly overcome if the patient is anaesthetized; the patient at the same time often exhibits other symptoms of hysteria. Treatment.—The treatment of this affection often requires the greatest judgment and skill upon the part of the surgeon. The constitutional con- dition of the patient should receive as much attention as the affected joint. The general health should be carefully looked after, tonics often being indi- cated, and the surgeon should endeavor to make the patient understand that the condition is one which will soon improve under treatment. We have found in these cases the best results follow the use of Paquelin's cautery, the point being lightly passed over the skin of the joint at a number of points, and after a few applications of this nature massage and passive motion should be employed; at the same time tonics are administered, and the patient is encouraged to make use of the joint; no dressing further than a simple flannel bandage is indicated. In obstinate cases, in addition to the remedies above recommended, the removal of the patient from her surroundings and from the attention of sympathizing friends is advisable. The rest treat- ment of Weir Mitchell will often be followed by a rapid improvement, both in the local and in the constitutional condition of the patient. Neuralgia of Joints.—The joints are occasionally the seats of pain which appears to be independent of a change in the structure of the joint. Such neuralgic pain may arise from neurasthenia, from malaria, from disease