TUMORS OF THE FACE. 736 by their traction. These tumors are generally congenital, or originate very early in life. Lipoma occurs on the face, although it is not very common. On the forehead it may be congenital, and in such cases lies under the fascia or the pericranium, and has a depression in the skull beneath it, like the dermoids. Lipoma is frequently combined with angioma. Osteomata are not uncommon, and are seen in the shape of small and very dense nodules on the frontal bone and on the jaws. They also occur in the nose and the adjoining sinuses, as described elsewhere. Chondroma grows from the various bones of the face, and usually ossifies, but it is also found as a part of the so-called mixed tumors which are so common in the parotid gland. Mixed tumors more rarely appear in the substance of the lip, where they form hard, nodular masses, growing very slowly, but with a strong tendency to return after removal. Angioma is one of the commonest of the tumors of the face, existing in all varieties from a mere telangiectasis to a cavernous mass. The tumors may be pedunculated and globular in shape, sometimes hanging from the end of the nose and attaining a. considerable size. On the forehead angi- oma forms, as a rule, a small tumor ; in the cheek and lips, however, it may involve their entire thickness and affect the mucous membrane. (Fig. 664.) It often attacks the muscles in these situa- Fig. 664. tions, their capillaries being degenerated, so that a thorough removal necessitates a very extensive operation. The most suitable mode of treatment of angioma of the face is excision when the tumor is small and the wound can be neatly brought together, placing the scar in a situation where it will not be noticeable. In other cases the neoplasm must be treated by multiple puncture with a red-hot needle or by elec- trolysis. (See page 104.) Lymphatic tu- mors are found in two forms : first, as an encapsulated lymphangioma; secondly, Angioma of the lip. as a general dilatation resembling ele- phantiasis, which is liable to affect the lips, producing the condition known as macrocheilia. Lymphangioma some- times becomes cystic, the cavities continually growing larger and the walls between them breaking down until a single large cyst is produced, occasion- ally with little trace of angiomatous tissue around it. Papillomata are quite common in the skin of the face, but the little tumors do not differ from warts in other situations, except that they should be very carefully watched for fear of a change into epithelioma. Adenoma of the skin originating in the sebaceous or sweat glands is not infrequent, forming small tumors, and occasionally masses of considerable size. It also originates in the mucous glands of the lip, and is apt to be cystic. Mixed tumors resembling those of common occurrence in the parotid are found also in the lip and cheek. Sarcoma is rare in the face except as it originates in the various bones, in the salivary glands, or in the contents of the orbit.