306 ECZEMA. acteristic location of the eruption, beginning between the fingers, the trifling constitutional reaction, and the intense itching make the diagnosis easy in well-marked cases. The eruption is at first a mere erythema, but vesicles soon appear, accompanied by considerable subcutaneous and cutaneous oedema, enough in some cases to close the eyes and distort the genitals. The disease is self-limited, running its course in a week, although sometimes pro- longed by relapses. It should be treated on the same principles as an acute eczema, which, indeed, occasionally follows it. Sulphate of zinc, gr. ij ; water, gi; or extr. grindelia robusta, fsi to f3iv; water, Oi, may be used as a wet application. An ointment of carbolic acid (gr. x-xx to gi) or ichthyol (ten per cent.) will soothe the itching. We have had excellent results from the latter, applied to the face on a mask. Eczema occurs in two forms, the acute and the chronic. In the acute variety the affected part is reddened and. covered with minute vesicles, which may break and form crusts, and the surface of the skin may desqua- mate, leaving a raw-looking, deep-red patch, secreting an abundant sticky serous discharge. Papules and even pustules are sometimes seen, and the skin is always thickened. While the disease undoubtedly depends largely upon some constitutional disturbance, such as gout, it may be excited by many irritating local applications, and often it starts from such an irritated spot and slowly spreads all over the body, resembling the spread of ery- sipelas, but not being quite so continuous in its advance, for in some cases it seems as if the poison were absorbed by the blood and showed itself by cuta- neous irritation in different parts, while in others it appears as if it were carried to other parts by the fingers after scratching some vesicles at the place first affected. The itching is intense, and often causes great suffering. Treatment.—We have found a weak solution of bicarbonate of sodium to be the best means of allaying the itching, ointment being badly borne. A solution of zinc sulphate, gr. xv-xxx to gi, is also recommended. The first necessity is to discontinue the irritating dressing which has caused the eruption. It is well to give a purge, and alkalies internally. When anaemia coexists, a combination of magnesise sulphat., gi ; ferri sulphat., gr. i; acidi sulphurici dil., n\viii; aquae, q. s. ad gss, given in water before breakfast, is excellent as a tonic aperient. Chronic eczema is marked by great thickening of the skin, with the for- mation of crusts and scales, which, when peeled off, leave a red, " weeping" surface behind them. Its treatment is very difficult, requiring general constitutional remedies and local applications of a stimulating nature, such as tar, green soap, and caustic potash. Very great judgment is necessary in the employment of these powerful agents, for if applied too strong the reac- tion may be too intense and the disease rendered worse. A soothing oint- ment, such as oxide of zinc, should first be applied, and a tenth part of unguentum picis liquidse can be added to it at subsequent dressings, grad- ually increasing the amount of the tar until a proper strength is reached. Oil of cade is identical in its effects, and may be employed in ointment or with alcohol, oil of almond, or glycerin, especially for the scalp. Green soap and potash are employed in the very dry, chronic, scaling variety of eczema, especially of the palms of the hands. Lassar recommends surgeons