400 DISLOCATION OF NERVES. and are followed by more or less anaesthesia; motor symptoms are mani- fested by muscular feebleness or tremor, followed by paralysis. Treatment.—The treatment of paralysis from pressure upon nerves con- sists in removing the cause ; if the symptoms be due to a growth which can be removed, this shoidd be accomplished ; if due to a scar, this should be dissected out and the nerve found and thoroughly stretched. In cases of paralysis from the use of crutches, these should be abandoned for a time, and after the removal of the cause the loss of sensation resulting from the pressure should be treated by massage and galvanism. Dislocation of Nerves.—Dislocation of a nerve, aside from its occur- rence in connection with fractures or dislocations, is rarely seen. The ulnar nerve at the elbow, however, is occasionally dislocated by direct injury or forced extension of the forearm. A number of cases of dislocation of this nerve have been reported, and we have had recently under our care a case of dislocation of the ulnar nerve from direct violence. The symptoms of this injury are usually numbness and tingling in the parts supplied by the ulnar nerve, and the patient often feels something slip near the inner con- dyle of the humerus upon extension and flexion of the arm. Upon examina- tion the surgeon can feel a cord in front of the inner condyle when the arm is flexed, which slips back into its groove when the arm is extended. In some cases the symptoms following this injury gradually disappear, the nerve accustoming itself to its changed position ; in others, more or less pain, numbness, and disability persist. Treatment.—This consists in replacing the nerve and holding it in place by a compress and bandage, at the same time fixing the motion of the elbow-joint by means of a splint. As this treatment usually fails to prevent recurrence of the dislocation, it is better to expose the nerve by an incision, and, after making a bed for it behind the inner condyle of the humerus, to fix it in its normal position by two or three chromicized catgut or kangaroo tendon sutures passed through the inner margin of the triceps tendon and somewhat loosely around the nerve ; several sutures should also be applied to unite the divided margin of the fascial expansion of the triceps tendon superficial to the nerve. Wounds of Nerves.—Wounds of nerves may be either incised, lacer- ated, or punctured. Incised wounds of nerves are produced by sharp cutting instruments, such as knives, or by fragments of glass; accidental division of nerves is most frequent from glass wounds caused by thrusting the hand or foot through a pane of glass or from the breaking of glass vessels. Lacerated wounds of nerves may occur in connection with extensive laceration of other parts, as is frequently seen in machinery and railroad accidents, in fractures or dislocations, or in gunshot wounds. Punctured wounds of nerves generally result from needles, pins, or nails, and are not usually followed by complete loss of function, but may give rise to neuralgia or neuritis. Symptoms.—The immediate symptoms following the division or exten- sive laceration of a mixed nerve are not always distinctive; the pain may be slight or may be severe. The muscles supplied by the divided nerve are