ARTIFICIAL RESPIRATION. 205 beneath it. (Fig. 140.) Throw your weight forcibly two or three times upon the patient's back, over the roll of clothing, so as to press all fluids in the stomach out of the mouth." The first manipulations are applied only to cases of drowning. Second.—"To perform artificial respiration, turn the patient upon his back, placing the roll of clothing beneath it so as to make the breast- bone the highest point of the body. Kneel beside or astride the pa- tient's hips. Grasp the front part of the chest on either side of the pit of the stomach, rest the fingers along the spaces between the short ribs. Press your elbows against your sides, and, steadily grasping Fig. 141. and pressing forward and up- ward, throw your whole weight upon the chest, gradually in- creasing the pressure while you count one, two, three. (Fig. 141.) Then suddenly let go with a final push, which brings you back to your first position. Rest Direct method of artificial respiration. (Howard.) erect upon your knees while you count one, two; then make pressure again as before ; repeat the entire motions, at first about four or five times a minute, gradually increasing them to about ten or twelve times. Use the same regularity as blowing- bellows and as seen in the natural breathing which you are imitating." Silvester's Method of Artificial Respiration.—The patient should be placed upon his back upon a firm flat surface ; a cushion should be placed under the shoulders, and the head should be dropped lower than the body by tilting the surface upon which it is laid. The mouth being cleared of mucus and foreign sub- stances, the tongue should be drawn for- ward and secured, or held by an assistant. The operator, standing at the patient's head, grasps the arms at the Silvester's method—inspiration. (Esmarch.) elbows and Carries them first outward and then upward until the hands are brought above the head ; this manipulation represents inspiration. (Fig. 142.) They should be kept in this position for two seconds, after which they are brought slowly back to the sides of the thorax and pressed against it for two seconds ; this manipulation repre- sents expiration. (Fig. 143.) Simultaneous pressure on the abdomen by an