877 EMPHYSEMA AND PNEUMOTHORAX. sometimes be secured. If it is found that the bleeding arises from a wound of the heart or of the great vessels, it is not probable that surgical inter- ference can avert the fatal issue. If the bleeding has been arrested before the surgeon sees the case, and the cavity of the chest is found partially filled with blood-clot, it is wiser not to turn out the blood-clot and search for the source of the bleeding, but to close the wound and trust to the absorption and organization of the blood-clot; or, later, if the clot breaks down the resulting fluid may be removed by aspiration or incision. If hemorrhage is not a prominent symptom, the external wound should be closed with sutures, a dressing of sterilized or antiseptic gauze applied, and the respiratory movements of the chest upon the injured side limited by the application of adhesive straps. Extensive exploration of the wound in such cases is injudicious; it is much better after cleansing the external wound to apply an antiseptic dressing and depend upon aseptic occlusion. If hernia of the lung exists, which is rare as a primary complication of penetrating wounds, and the vitality of the protruding portion of the viscus is unim- paired, this should be carefully sterilized and returned within the chest; if, however, the protruding portion of the lung has been lacerated or incised, and its vitality has been impaired, it should be ligated as close to the ribs as possible, and the portion in advance of the ligature excised, the stump being returned within the chest, or secured in the wound by a few sutures, and the external portion of the wound closed by sutures and covered with an aseptic or antiseptic dressing. Hernia of the lung occurring after the external wound has healed should be treated by the application of a com- press held in position by a belt. Emphysema and Pneumothorax.—These conditions may result from penetrating wounds of the chest; the latter, if excessive, may cause marked dyspnoea, and be recognized by hyper-resonance over the seat of injury, with absence of respiratory murmur, amphoric breathing, and occa- sionally metallic tinkling. Emphysema, which is usually manifested by swelling of the tissues in the region of the wound, may be recognized by the elastic character of the swelling, and by the fact that it crepitates upon pressure. Emphysema may be limited to the region of the wound, or may extend widely through the tissues, even involving the whole body, giving the patient a bloated appearance. A form of emphysema occurring after punctured wounds, particularly of the anterior region of the chest, known as mediastinal emphysema, caused by air passing back under the pleura to the connective tissue at the root of the lung, may give rise to marked dysp- noea and embarrassment of the circulation and lead to a fatal termination. Pneumothorax may be avoided, when there is fear of causing it during operations, by filling the wound with normal salt solution or packing it with wet sponges or gauze. Pneumothorax, if extensive and involving both sides of the chest, may produce so much dyspnoea that life will be threatened. We have seen unilateral pneumothorax result in death, the other lung being crippled by adhesions. In this condition aspiration of the air from the cavity may be employed, or, better, the pleural sac may be filled with salt solution, the wound tightly closed, and subsequently the fluid aspirated. Emphysema usually requires no surgical treatment, the air