1012 TREATMENT OF ISCHIORECTAL ABSCESS. later to become infected with pyogenic organisms and present the symp- toms of the acute affection. Ischio rectal abscess may result from trauma- tisms of the perirectal tissues produced by kicks, blows, or falls, giving rise to acute phlebitis, from infection of wounds of the mucous surface of the rectum resulting from operations or injuries, from materials contained in the feces, such as fish-bones, sharp portions of shell-fish, pieces of bone, or any other hard substance. It may also occur as the result of ulceration of the rectum, or from rupture or perforation of the rectal wall in connection with stricture or cancer of the rectum. Symptoms.—The development of ischio-rectal abscess is usually at- tended with fever, and a well-marked rigor or chill often occurs. Pain of a dull, throbbing character is a prominent symptom, aud is very much in- creased by the act of defecation. A symptom upon which we lay great stress, and which is not generally described, is pain in the rectum upon coughing. This we have found an early and constant symptom, and one which is present when the pus is deeply seated and many of the other symptoms are wanting. Irritability of the bladder or retention of urine may also be present. The abscess is usually situated upon the lateral aspect of the anus, and may present a prominent fluctuating swelling, or the swelling may be scarcely marked, and the situation of the abscess be recognizable only by a localized brawny and thickened condition of the skin, with some oedema. Examination of the rectum with the finger will sometimes reveal bulging of the rectal wall in the region of the abscess. Ischio-rectal abscess, if left to itself, opens into the rectum, and a second opening is apt to occur on the cutaneous surface near the anus; or it may open first upon the skin, and subsequently an opening occurs into the rec- tum, and there results a persistent sinus, which is known as a fistula in ano, or rectal sinus. Treatment.—In no abscess is the indication for early and free incision more urgent, for an opening relieves the patient's pain and renders ex- tremely favorable the prospect of repair without the formation of a fistula. The treatment of this condition, therefore, consists in early and free in- cision ; the surgeon should not wait until the presence of pus is evident, but should make an incision if deep induration of the tissues in the anal region can be felt on palpation. The patient should be anaesthetized and the region of the anus and but- tocks thoroughly sterilized, and it is well to have him placed upon his back with the pelvis resting upon the edge of the table—that is, in the lithotomy position. A curved incision, several inches in length, is made over the swelling or indurated tissue outside of the edge of the sphincter muscle, and the tissues are carefully divided until the pus-cavity is reached, care being taken that the dissection does not go too close to the wall of the rectum. When the abscess-cavity is reached, this should be incised to its full extent, the finger introduced to break down any bands or pockets, and the cavity gently curetted. To expose the cavity fully, one or more in- cisions at right angles to the first incision, extending out upon the buttock, may be required. As drainage is the most important factor in the treat- ment, the incisions should be free. The cavity should next be thoroughly