SUTURES. 206 Fig. 143. assistant greatly increases the effect of this movement. These movements are repeated from twelve to fifteen times in a minute until the breathing is restored, or until it is evident that the case is a hopeless one. Forced Respiration.—In this method of artificial respi- ration air is forced into the lungs either through the mouth and larynx or through a tracheotomy tube by means of a bellows. An intubation tube, to which a rub- ber tube is attached, may also be placed in the larynx, and to this is attached a bellows, or Fell's apparatus may be employed. Forced respiration has proved of value in cases of narcotic poi- soning and other accidents, in which death is produced by pa- ralysis of the respiratory cen- tres. Laborde's Method of Artificial Respiration—This method, which consists in systematic and rhythmic traction of the tongue, has proved to be a valuable means of restoring the respiratory reflex, and con- sequently the function of respiration. The procedure is accomplished as follows: The body of the tongue is seized between the thumb and the finger, or by tongue or dressing forceps, and traction is made upon it with alternate relaxation fifteen or twenty times in a minute, imitating the function of respiration, taking care to draw well on the tongue. As soon as a certain amount of resistance is felt it is a favorable sign, for it indicates that the respiratory function is being restored, which is manifested by noisy respiration. This form of artificial respiration bids fair to supersede all other forms, and has been employed with success in cases of drowning, toxic asphyxia, chloroform asphyxia, and asphyxia from strong electric currents. In any case where it is employed the traction should be per- sisted with for half an hour to an hour. Silvester's method—expiration. (Esmarch.) SUTUEES. Several varieties of materials are employed for sutures, such as silk, catgut, silver wire, silkworm-gut, kangaroo tendon, and horse-hair. Of these, catgut and kangaroo tendon are practically the only substances em- ployed as sutures which are absorbed; the other sutures require removal, although some sutures, such as silk, silkworm-gut, and silver wire, when employed in deep wounds, if cut short, may become encysted and pro- duce no trouble. It matters little what material be employed for sutures if it is rendered thoroughly aseptic before being brought in contact with the wound. Sutures of Relaxation.—Sutures of relaxation, also called tension sutures, are those which are entered and brought out at some distance from