DISLOCATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE PELVIS. 582 Fig. 512. Anterior dislocation of phalanx of the finger. (Agnew.) Reduction of metacarpophalangeal dislocation of the index finger. (Agnew.) the displaced bone may be exposed by an incision, and any structures which interfere with its reduction divided and the displacement reduced. Dislocations of the Phalanges of the Fingers—These may be metacarpo phalangeal or interphalangeal (Fig. 512), and are usually not difficult of reduction ; in such cases reduction can be accom- plished by over-extension of the distal phalanx, followed by manipulation and flexion. (Fig. 513.) The after-treat- ment consists in fixing the dis- placed bone by the application of a moulded binders' board splint for a few weeks and in practising passive motion to restore the function of the joint. Compound Disloca- Fig. 513. tions of the Phalanges. —In compound dislocations of the phalanges the wound should be thoroughly ster- ilized and the dislocation should be reduced, the wound closed, and the parts fixed by a moulded binders' board splint. Where there is extensive comminution of the bones in conjunction with dislocation of the phalanges, excision of the comminuted portions should be practised. DISLOCATION OR DIASTASIS OF THE BONES OF THE PELVIS. Diastasis of the bones of the pelvis results from heavy bodies passing over the pelvis, or from crushing forces such as occur in railway accidents, and is often associated with fracture of the pelvic bones. The diastasis in the pelvic bones is most commonly seen at the sacro-iliac symphysis or the pubic symphysis. Symptoms.—A patient who has sustained a pubic or a sacro iliac diastasis is unable to stand, and complains of a sense of falling apart in the region of the pelvis, and upon examination, by grasping the bony prominences of the pelvis and making motion, mobility can usually be felt at the region of separation. Treatment.—The treatment of pelvic diastasis consists in placing the patient in bed upon his back on a firm mattress, and, after reducing the displacement by manipulation, applying a stout muslin binder around the pelvis, or the latter may be strapped with broad strips of adhesive plaster. This support should be retained for a period of a month or six weeks ; at the end of this time union is sufficiently firm to allow the patient to get up and walk about. Dislocation of the Coccyx.—This injury may result from force re- ceived directly upon the region of the coccyx, and consists in a forward displacement of this bone. The amount of pain and disability following the anterior displacement of the coccyx is out of proportion to the extent of the injury. This injury maybe diagnosed by introducing the finger into