ADVANCEMENT OF OCULAR TENDON. 833 Fig. 724. straighten the eye, tenotomy or advancement, or both operations, may be required. Tenotomy of an Ocular Muscle.—This is performed as follows. The eye being thoroughly cocainized (general anaesthesia is inadvisable), the ten- don of the muscle to be divided (in convergeut strabismus the internal rectus) is exposed by a small horizontal incision directly over its insertion. This incision divides first the conjunctiva, then the capsule of Tenon. A stra- bismus hook is now introduced beneath the exposed tendon and drawn well forward to its insertion, and the tendon separated from its attachment to the sclera by a few snips with a blunt-pointed scissors. If the effect of the tenotomy is to be increased, the capsule of Tenon is divided on each side, as well as the fibres which pass from the caruncle to the in- ternal rectus. The conjunctival wound is then closed with a stitch placed vertically. Con- comitant divergent squint is remedied by tenotomy of the externus, with or without ad- vancement of the internus. In place of tenotomy, or associated with it, we have the operation of advancement or readjustment. Advancement of an Ocular Tendon.— The insertion of the tendon is exposed, and the strip of conjunctiva between the opening and the cornea detached from the sclera. A hook is then inserted beneath the tendon and brought well up to its insertion. A suture armed with a needle at each end is next inserted in the upper border of the margin of the tendon between it and the sclera, and passed through the tendon at its middle line. Similarly another suture is passed behind the tendon from its lower margin close to the first. Each of these is firmly knotted on the tendon. The tendon is now separated with scissors, and the sutures are passed through the conjunctival flap and the episcleral tissue, and are tied with their own ends. (Fig. 724.) Numerous methods have been devised for advancing ocular muscles, the one briefly described being that which the writer has commonly employed. There is perhaps no other operation in ophthalmic surgery which requires so much judgment as that directed to the relief of strabismus, and before it is undertaken the surgeon should thoroughly understand the subject. Advancement of ocular tendon. (Swanzy.) o3