WHITE GANGRENE. 150 kept in one position for a considerable time, or those who wear splints for a long time, the surgeon should bear in mind the possibility of the development of bed-sores or splint-sores. Treatment.—As a prophylactic measure the parts should be kept dry, and should be occasionally sponged with dilute alcohol and dusted with powdered boric acid. If the skin shows signs of pressure, the part should be protected from pressure by the application of a piece of soap plaster, made by spreading emplastrum saponis upon chamois-skin; or should be relieved from pressure by placing under it soft pads stuffed with hair, or a perforated air-cushion. In injuries of the spine the use of a water-bed will often prevent the development of bed-sores. When bed-sores have actually formed, the separation of the sloughs may be facilitated by the use of moist dressings, such as gauze saturated in acetate of aluminum or carbolic solution. When the sloughs have separated, the resulting ulcer should be dressed with powdered aristol and boric ointment, and care should be taken to keep the parts free from pressure by the use of an air- cushion. White Gangrene.—This form of gangrene arises from general causes, and is supposed to result from anseniia of a part due to a localized vaso- motor condition. The lower extremities are usually attacked, but it may occur in any part of the body; it is said to occur in early adult life in those in whom nutrition is defective. Pain in the nerve or nerves leading to the part about to be involved is noticed for some time; later a cir- cumscribed white spot forms, often circular in outline, or a toe or a finger may be involved; the skin becomes white and shrivelled, and soon an in- flammatory area develops around this spot, forming a line of separation, and the dead tissue separates, leaving a healthy ulcer. If the destruction of tissue is confined to the skin, the affection is not a serious one, but if the deeper tissues are involved, the condition may be dangerous. Treatment.—The patient should be given tonics and a nutritious diet, and if the gangrenous process is not fully developed the use of the galvanic current may arrest the further progress of the affection. The treatment of the gangrenous parts is that applicable to cases of inoist gangrene. Symmetrical Gangrene (Raynaud's Disease).—This is a rare form of gangrene, which is supposed to result from persistent vaso-constrictor spasm brought about by reflex action. The parts attacked are commonly exposed portions of the body—the fingers, toes, ears, knees, and cheeks. The disease is usually observed in children or young adults. The parts about to be attacked by this form of gangrene are liable to be cold, pale, and numb for some time, presenting a bluish and congested appearance, which is accompanied by burning pain, and later gangrene sets in, generally of the dry form, although moist gangrene has been observed in such cases. Treatment.—The protection of the parts from cold and the application of the galvanic current have apparently arrested the progress of the disease. When gangrene has actually developed, the treatment is that appropriate for dry or moist gangrene. A similar form of gangrene, resulting from Araso-motor spasm, caused by the prolonged use of ergot or by the use of bread made from diseased