SYMPTOMS OF VESICAL CALCULUS. 1100 around this nucleus (Fig. 842), the mass gradually increasing in size until in some cases it may fill the entire bladder. An albuminous framework holds the crystals, and therefore calculi can form only when the urine con- tains mucus or blood, besides being rich in salts. Calculi are most commonly formed of the urates and uric acid, the phosphatic salts, and oxalate of lime, and in that order, but rare varieties consist Fig. 842. of SU(?ll SUDStances as cystine. The oxalate of lime calculus is very hard, and its surface usually rough from the projecting corners of Fig. 843. Section of a vesical calculus. (Agnew.) Vesical calculus one end of which was encysted in a pouch. the crystals which form the outer layer, whence it is called a mulberry cal- culus. The uric acid calculi are not so hard, and are smooth. Those of the urates are still softer, and the phosphatic calculi are very friable, the layers easily breaking away or even dissolving, and their surfaces are smooth. The uric acid and oxalate calculi are usually globular or egg- shaped, while the phosphatic form is often flattened. The calculi may lie for years in the bladder without symptoms, especially if they have de- veloped in pouches in its walls or at the base behind an enlarged prostate. Occasionally they are elongated, and one end extends into one of the ureters, into the urethra, or into a vesical pouch. (Fig. 843.) Not infrequently cal- culi begin to grow in the prostatic sinus and then extend backward into the bladder and forward along the urethra. Sometimes more than one calculus is found, even as many as five hun- dred. Calculi are of various sizes, averaging from three to six drachms in weight, and from half an inch to an inch and a half in diameter. They may weigh only a few grains or as much as six pounds. Calculi have been known to undergo spontaneous fracture in the bladder, but the causes of this accident are not understood. Multiple stones in the bladder are some- times facetted, or show other marks of one another's presence. The pres- ence of a calculus in the bladder causes congestion and even sloughing of the mucous membrane. If infection takes place and a cystitis is produced, its symptoms are rendered much worse by the presence of the stone. Symptoms.—The symptoms of calculus may be very severe or slight, the difference depending mainly upon the presence or absence of septic infec- tion. If there is no cystitis the symptoms are usually slight, and in some cases the stone has existed for years without being recognized, even when of