388 LIGATION OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. the wrist. The skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia being divided, the artery will be exposed, with its accompanying veins, between the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis digitoruni, the ulnar nerve being to the ulnar side of the vessel. (Fig. 292.) The needle shoirid be passed from within outward, to avoid the nerve. Ligation of the Superficial Palmar Arch.—The skin, the palma- ris brevis muscle, and the palmar fascia cover the vessel, and beneath it lie the divisions of the median and ulnar nerves, as well as the tendons of the flexor muscles of the fingers. The Esmarch bandage should be applied, so as to control hemorrhage and afford the operator a satisfactory view of the parts. Ligation of the palmar arch is usually required to control hemor- rhage from wounds of the arch, and both ends of the divided arch should be secured by ligatures. Ligation of the Deep Palmar Arch—The deep palmar arch is formed by the radial artery and a branch from the ulnar artery, and lies upon the interosseous muscles. It is covered by the flexor tendons of the fingers and the flexor brevis pollicis. The wound should be enlarged, and both ends of the divided arch should be secured, care being taken to avoid injury to the deep structures of the palni. Ligation of an Intercostal Artery—Ligation of the intercostal arteries may be required in penetrating or non-penetrating wounds of the chest. The intercostal arteries arise from the posterior part of the aorta on each side, and each artery divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The intercostal artery runs in a groove along the lower border of the rib, where it may be secured by separating it from the rib, or it may be neces- sary to excise a portion of the rib before it can be satisfactorily exposed. Ligation of the Abdominal Aorta.—The abdominal aorta may be exposed by an incision in the linea alba from a point three inches above the umbilicus to a point three inches below it. (Fig. 29-4.) The superficial structures having been divided, the peritoneum is opened, the intestines are pressed aside, and the aorta is exposed, covered by the peritoneum with the filaments of the sympathetic nerve resting upon it, and with the vena cava to the right side. The peritoneum being torn through with a director, the needle should be passed from right to left around the vessel. After securing the ligature the ends should be cut short, and the external wound should be closed as in the ordinary laparotomy wound. The abdominal aorta may also be exposed along the anterior border of the quadratus lumborum muscle from the last rib to the crest of the ilium. The skin, fascire, lumbar muscle, and fascia transversalis having been divided, the wound should be held open with retractors, so that the retroperitoneal space shall be exposed and the aorta brought into view. The vessel being separated from the vena cava and the nerves, the needle is passed around it and the ligature is applied. Ligation of the Common Iliac Artery.—The abdominal aorta divides into the two common iliac arteries on the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. The common iliac arteries are about two inches in length ; the right vessel, in consequence of its having to pass over the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, is longer than the left. The right iliac artery is covered in front by the peritoneum and the ileum, and at its termination