TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS. 61 pyogenic membrane, which is merely a layer of tuberculous tissue. They tend to spread in the direction of least resistance, usually settling through the cellular spaces in accordance with gravity, softening the connective tissue, eroding bones, but generally sparing nerves and large blood-vessels, which may often be found strung across their cavities, the surrounding tissues having been dissected away. The skin over these abscesses is very slowly involved, sometimes remaining unaltered for years. AVhen it is attacked it turns purple, sloughs at some point, and, when the pus is discharged, a typical tuberculous sinus is formed. Sometimes these ab- scesses disappear by inspissation and absorption of the pus, even when very large. The symptoms of tuberculosis are considered in connection with the various organs affected. Treatment.—The treatment of tuberculous lesions is constitutional, germicidal, or mechanical. The tissues resist tuberculous infection in vary- ing degrees, and in some parts of the body, and in some individuals, this resistance is very great. It is accomplished by the formation of cicatricial tissue around the tubercles, shutting off their blood-supply by compression and opposing their advance by its fibrous nature. This resistance can be greatly increased by measures directed to improving the general condition of the individual, such as rest, exercise, fresh air, abundant and good food, and general hygiene, including residence in a suitable climate. Many per- sons will recover without any other treatment. Cod-liver oil, various tonics, and sometimes an allowance of alcoholic stimulants, assist. Sclerogenic Method.—Locally the formation of fibrous tissue may be favored by injecting a ten per cent, solution of chloride of zinc into the tis- sue (Lannelongue), a method which appears to have given very good results in the hands of French surgeons. The theory upon which this method is advocated is that the tubercle is arrested in its growth by the production of cicatricial tissue around it. The punctate use of the thermo-cautery has also been successful, acting in a similar way. Operative.—The foci may be extirpated mechanically, either by simple incision and curetting or cauterization, or by complete excision. Joints are resected, tuberculous foci in bone chiselled out, and tuberculous organs, such as the kidney or the testicle, removed. The amputation of a limb may be necessary. Tuberculin.—When Koch introduced tuberculin it was hoped that we had obtained a selective agent which could be injected anywhere in the body and would reach the tuberculous foci by circulating in the blood, and destroy the germs by its indirect action upon the tissues in which they lay. But it was soon found that a favorable effect could be obtained only in a few cases, and its use has been almost entirely abandoned. Finally, aud this method appears to promise most in the future, we may attempt to destroy the bacillus in the focus itself. Various substances have been employed for this, but the most generally used are iodoform and balsam of Peru. The balsam of Peru is used in full strength. Iodoform Injections.—The iodoform is employed in a ten per cent, emul- sion with glycerin or olive oil, or in solution in ether. The fluid is injected