VARIETIES OF BACTERIA. 12 for one minute. It is decolorized with alcohol, dried, and a counterstain applied if desired. Varieties of Bacteria.—We proceed to a brief enumeration of the bacteria which are surgically important, beginning with the varieties which are able to produce pus, the chief of these being the cocci. Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus (Ogston, Eosenbach) (Plate I., Fig. 2) is a globular organism, about 0.7 to 0.9 micromillimetre in diameter, growing in clusters, found very widely diffused, but especially upon the skin and in the pharynx, and causing about eighty per cent, of all the in- stances of suppurative inflammation. It is the almost universal cause of acute osteomyelitis. It grows upon all the ordinary culture media at ordi- nary temperatures, but best at from 86° to 98° F. (30° to 37° C). It forms small circular colonies, with sharp, smooth outlines, often white at first, but generally yellow in color, deepening to orange as they grow (Plate I., Fig. 1, A). It licpiefies the gelatin, and forms small depressions, into whieh the colony sinks. It also has the power of peptonizing albumin and coagulating milk. This coccus can be inoculated in animals, causing local suppuration and general septicaemia. It grows both with and without free oxygen, and does not form spores, unless they be arthrospores. It can be stained by any of the methods, including Gram's. Staphylococcus pyogenes albus (Eosenbach, Passet) and S. p. citreus (Passet) resemble the foregoing species in every respect, except that one forms white and the other lemon-colored colonies, and that neither of them is so virulent as the orange variety (Plate I., Fig. 1, B). Staphylococcus epidermidis albus (Welch) is probably only a modified and less virulent form of the S. p. albus, and is found in the deep layers of the cutaneous epithelial cells. Its situation renders it very difficult to destroy, and it is liable to cause abscesses around cutaneous sutures. Several different streptococci have been described, and it is still uncer- tain whether these are independent species or merely varieties of one species, the majority of bacteriologists at present holding the latter view. Streptococcus pyogenes (Plate I., Fig. 3) is a globular organism occur- ring in chains, from } to 1 micromillimetre in diameter, especially common in the exposed mucous cavities of the body, such as the urethra, vagina, and mouth. It grows in the usual culture media, slowly at ordinary tem- peratures, most freely at about the body temperature, forming small circu- lar (rarely oval) colonies, which are at first yellow and later turn brown. The gelatin is not liquefied, and the colonies project above the surface, espe- cially at their centres and on the edges. The streptococcus peptonizes albu- min. It produces arthrospores, grows best with free oxygen present, and can be stained by all the aniline dyes, including Gram's method. Experi- ments on animals appear to indicate that the streptococcus is less virulent than the S. p. aureus, but clinically it is found to excite a more dangerous form of suppuration, with much sloughing and a tendency to spread with- out limitation. It also causes erysipelas, for Fehleisen's streptococcus of erysipelas is probably identical with the ordinary streptococcus pyogenes, in spite of Eosenbach's efforts to distinguish them, although it may be a peculiarly modified form of that germ. The staphylococci are never found