910 TREATMENT OF CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST. rapidly over the side of the chest, and may involve one-half of the thorax, or even the entire upper half of the body, and extend well down upon the arms. The skin in this region is thickened by the infiltration, slightly reddened, breaking down here and there in superficial ulcerations. This variety of the disease may run a course of three or four years. The pain is usually slight, but an annoying irritation and burning is occasionally felt in the nodules. The discharge from the ulcerated surfaces may be very troublesome. The term cancer en cuirasse is properly applied to a dissemi- nation of cancer in the skin with atrophic contracting changes. Diagnosis.—Carcinoma of the breast is distinguished from benign tumors by its rather rapid growth, by the tendency to adhesion of the skin, by retraction of the nipple, by the fixation of the gland on the pectoral mus- cle, and, finally, by the enlargement of the lymph-nodes in the axilla. We do not speak of the later symptoms, such as ulceration, for to be of any value the diag- nosis must be made before this occurs. In differentiating carcinoma from sar- coma the former is marked by the more advanced age of the patient, the early adhesion of the skin, the involvement of the lymph-nodes, and the slower growth of the tumor. Prognosis.—Death is inevitable un- less the patient dies of some other dis- ease before the cancer reaches its ter- mination. The usual duration without operation appears to be nearly two years and a half. A radical operation will cure from twenty to thirty per cent., and even more in selected cases, while the operation generally prolongs life. The mortality of the operation should not be over two or three per cent. Pregnancy hastens the growth and dissemination of these tumors, but there is no evi- dence that the youth of the patients has this effect. Treatment.—The treatment consists in complete removal of the dis- eased organ, together with the contents of the axilla. The fascia covering the pectoral muscle must also be removed, because it has been shown that the lymphatics of the breast penetrate the capsule and ramify in the loose connective tissue between the breast and the fascia, and that infection of these lymphatics takes place very early. (Fig. 766.) If isolated glands are removed from the axilla, the lymphatic vessels which connect them with the breast and with one another are left undisturbed ; therefore the entire mass of fat and cellular tissue from the edge of the breast up to the apex of the axilla, including the glands and their vessels, must be removed in one piece. This much should be done in every case of carcinoma of the breast, no matter how small the tumor and how limited the infection may seem, for Fig. 765. Result of operations for carcinoma of both breasts. 1889, left breast removed ; 1890, scar and left pectoralis major; 1892, right breast and pectoralis major removed; three years later, no return.