EXOPHTHALMIC GOITRE. 795 be found the accessory superior thyroid veins, which should be similarly treated. The gland is then drawn towards the middle line, and the supe- rior thyroid artery and vein found and included in a double ligature and divided. The inferior thyroid vessels are then sought and the vein tied first, together with the vena ima and any connecting branches. The inferior thyroid artery runs close to the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and therefore that vessel should be followed outward and tied near where it crosses the carotid. The gland is then pulled vigorously over towards the middle line, the capsule is divided on its posterior surface near the isthmus, and the gland is separated from its capsule working towards the isthmus. By thus leaving a part of the capsule in situ the laryngeal nerve is effectually pro- tected. When the isthmus is reached it forms a natural pedicle, and an in- terlocking ligature is passed through it and tied like that for the pedicle of an ovarian tumor. The isolated gland is then cut away and the wound sutured. The enucleation or intracapsular removal of these tumors is per- formed by exposing the capsule of the gland by a similar incision, dividing it and deepening the incision until the real capsule of the tumor is reached. The tumor is then shelled out of the gland substance. Very few blood-ves- sels pass through the capsule of the tumor, and, as these are of small size, hemorrhage is readily controlled by pressure. If there is more than one tumor, the removal of the others may require a separate incision of the gland capsule. If the bleeding stops, the wound is then sutured ; if not, it is to be packed. Exophthalmic Goitre.—The disease known as Basedow's or Graves's disease or exophthalmic goitre is a peculiar affection of undetermined pathol- ogy, marked by enlargement of the thyroid, exophthalmos, rapid and irregu- lar heart-action, and various nervous symptoms, such as tremor, hysteria, Fig. 698. insomnia, and lack of coordination between the movements of the eye- lids and the eyeballs. (Fig. 698.) The disease was formerly considered a purely medical affection, although in the well-developed cases a cure could not often be brought about by medical treatment, but the recent success in subduing the symptoms by a partial removal of the gland promises to transfer its treatment to the surgeon. Operation cures about three-quarters of the cases. The cases vary greatly in their intensity and also in their symptoms, the nervousness, the tachycardia, the exophthalmos, and the enlargement Exophthalmic goitre, of the thyroid being found variously combined, or only two of them being present. Cases without exophthalmos or without goitre are quite frequent. While the disease has been ascribed to