7 RESISTANCE TO BACTERIA. seem as if the constitutional danger to be feared from any pyogenic germ were in inverse proportion to the amount of inflammation it excited, the local inflammatory changes appearing to limit the growth of the invading bacteria and to prevent their entrance or the entrance of their toxines into the circulation. Resistance offered by the Tissues.—The tissues have considerable powers of resistance to infection under ordinary circumstances, although the exact sources of this power are not well understood. Phagocytosis, which is the power of destruction and removal of bacteria supposed to be possessed by the leucocytes emigrating from the blood-vessels (as will be described in the chapter on inflammation), explains it in part, but the ma- jority of pathologists are unwilling to give this mode of action the full credit which Cohnheim and Metchnikoff claim for it. It is also partly accounted for by the germicidal properties of blood-serum, which can be compared to that property of the serum by which it dissolves the blood corpuscles of another animal, as shown by Landois years ago. It has been found that if the serum is gently heated to 131° F. (55° C.) it loses the power of destroy- ing corpuscles and germs, which proves that their destruction is not due merely to the specific gravity of the serum or to its proportion of inorganic salts, for neither is altered by the heat. It has also been shown (Buchner) that this power is destroyed by adding distilled water to the serum, although it remains intact when the serum is diluted with physiological salt solution (one part sodium chloride to five hundred parts water), and can be restored to the serum diluted with plain water by the addition of a sufficient cpian- tity of sodium chloride. Certain experiments (Roger) indicate that there must be some difference between the two actions of the serum in dissolving corpuscles and destroying germs, for it appears that the streptococcus of erysipelas grows as well in the serum of immunized as of normal animals, but that it loses its virulence in the former. These facts make it certain that the germicidal power resides in some proteid body analogous to the antitoxines, to be described below. The resistance of the tissues may in some cases be due to the absence from them of some particular element necessary to the growth of a particular micro-organism. This refractori- ness varies in every species of animal in its relation to every form of germ, and different individuals of one species also vary in their susceptibility, and even different parts of the body vary in the same individual. Thus, inoculations of cultures of a certain strength will produce suppuration in the eye but not in the cellular tissue, while stronger ones will act in the latter but not in the peritoneum. The resistance of the human tissues to the pyogenic germs is usually less than that of the lower animals. Any cause which depresses the system, such as exhausting disease, anaemia, dia- betes mellitus, arterio-sclerosis, alcoholism, obesity, hunger, fatigue, and even exposure to cold, is apt to favor the growth of germs, although experi- ments have as yet failed to prove the influence of exposure. The variations which are found in the virulence of the bacteria con- cerned must also be taken into account. Esmarch showed that some spores of anthrax were killed in one minute by exposure to steam, while others survived up to twelve minutes, and "Welch observed one specimen of