389 LIGATION OF THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. by the ureter ; the primitive iliac veins are placed behind, and on its outer side are the inferior vena cava and the right iliac vein. The left iliac artery is covered anteriorly by the peritoneum and the rectum and the superior hemorrhoidal artery, and at its termination by the ureter ; the left common iliac vein is on the inner side and also behind the artery. (Fig. 293.) Operation.—The incision for the ligation of the common iliac artery is from four to six inches in length, beginning half an inch above the middle of Poupart's ligament, and is carried outward and curved upward after FlG' 294' ^ passing the anterior superior spine of the ileum. (Fig. 294, b.) The skin, superficial fascia, and aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle being- divided, the fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are raised upon a director and divided, and the transversalis fascia is exposed. This is opened at the lower part of the wound, and the finger is introduced and the peritoneum pressed back. The opening in the transversalis fascia is next enlarged, and the peritoneum is carefully drawn inward and upward with the fingers towards the inner edge of the wound. The surgeon next feels for the external iliac artery, and passes the finger along this until the common iliac artery is reached. The loose cellular tissue in which it is embedded is separated, and the needle is passed from within outward to avoid the common iliac vein, which on the left side lies on the inner side of the artery and on the right side lies behind the artery. The ureter gen- erally remains attached to the peritoneum ; if not, it is seen crossing the bifurcation of the common iliac artery with the genito-crural nerve, and care should be taken to avoid injury to these structures in passing the needle. Transperitoneal Method.—The common, external, or internal iliac artery may also be exposed through an abdominal incision three inches in length in the linea alba over the artery, opening the peritoneal cavity,— the transperitoneal incision. (Fig. 294, a.) The vessel being exposed and ligated, the ends of the ligature are cut short, and the external wound is closed. In practising this method of ligation the Trendelenburg position will be found most useful. This method of ligating the iliac arteries has Relation of the iliac arteries and veins. Line of incision for ligation of the iliac arteries: a and b, common iliac ; c, external iliac.