762 TREATMENT OF CARCINOMA OF THE TONGUE. Tuberculosis of the tongue is extremely rare as a primary affection, and tuberculous ulcer of the tongue is usually accompanied with tubercular lesions in other parts of the body. In cases where doubt exists as to the nature of the ulceration, a microscopical examination of a portion of the ulcer will reveal its true nature. Fixation and induration of the tongue are the most reliable diagnostic symptoms of cancer in cases of simple epithelial thickening and ulceration which have undergone epitheliomatous changes, but they occur late in the disease. Treatment.—As carcinoma of the tongue is a most painful and distress- ing affection and one which is invariably fatal if untreated, operative treat- ment should be undertaken as soon as the diagnosis is made. The opera- tions which are practised upon the tongue in case of carcinoma are either partial or complete excisions of the organ. Complete excision of the tongue is an operation attended with considerable danger and with a mortality of from ten to fifteen per cent. Death after this operation results from hemor- rhage, shock, or septic pneumonia. In addition to the extirpation of the tongue, all enlarged and indurated lymphatic glands in the region of the tongue should be removed. The submaxillary lymphatic glands are usually involved and should be removed, and at the same time the removal of the submaxillary salivary glands has been recommended, to prevent the devel- opment of ranula from obstruction of their ducts, which is not uncommon after this operation. Complete excision of the tongue with removal of the affected glands is sometimes followed by a permanent cure of the affection, and, even if it tails to accomplish this end, renders the patient's condition more comfortable and prolongs life, and death from recurrent disease in the glands of the neck and elsewhere is not attended with as much suffering as occurs from the primary affection. Appreciation of this fact will justify the surgeon in recommending the operation as a possible means of prolonging life and of diminishing pain and discomfort. Cases of carcinoma of the tongue which present the following conditions, extensive involvement of the floor of the mouth, with adhesion of the tongue to it and to the jaws, involvement of the soft palate, and enlargement and induration of the submaxillary lymphatic glands and the glands situated under the sterno-cleido-mastoid, are manifestly inoperable. Operation may also be contra-indicated by the condition of the patient, as well as by the extensive development of the disease. A patient exhausted by constant suffering and who has not been able to take sufficient food, or one in ad- vanced age, will not bear the shock of so severe an operation as excision of the tongue. In inoperable cases the pain and discomfort may be relieved in a measure by painting the ulcerated surface with a two per cent, solution of cocaine, or by the local use of campho-phenique and a mild antiseptic mouth-wash ; morphine in increasing doses is sooner or later required, and may be given by the mouth or by hypodermic injection. Excision of a portion of the lingual nerve, which may be reached by an incision in the floor of the mouth just below the last molar tooth of the lower jaw, has often been employed with good results as regards the relief of pain.