CESAREAN SECTION. 1203 removal of the organ. The first steps in the operation are similar to those described for vaginal extirpation, but when the level of the internal os is reached all that part of the uterus below it is removed with the scissors, the line of dissection being made conical, and reaching higher up at the level of the uterine canal than on the external surface of the organ. The entire oper- ation may be performed without ligatures by the thermo-cautery-knife (Byrne ). (Fig. 916.) This operation should be limited to the very mildest cases of superficial epithelioma seen very early, for it is as unreasonable to leave a part of a carcinomatous uterus as it would be to leave a part of a car- cinomatous breast. The tumor shown in the cut is extensive and not suited for this operation, but the cut is intended to show the line of section and the relations of the bladder and rectum. CESAREAN SECTION. The Caesarean section is the opening of the uterus through an abdominal incision at term in order to remove a child which cannot be delivered normally. The incision is made in the median line from the pubes to the umbilicus, and the uterus is brought out of the wound, the latter being partly closed by temporary sutures or clamps. Towels are laid around the uterus, and a rubber ligature is placed around the neck and the ends held by an assistant. The organ is incised in front in the middle line while another assistant compresses it laterally. The incision should be large enough to deliver the child, and may extend downward to the middle of the lower third of the uterus, but it should not open the cavity, being carried down only to the membranes at first. The placenta may be incised if it is in the way. The membranes are then opened, and the child delivered and handed to an assistant after clamping and dividing the cord. The placenta is then removed, and uterine contraction stimulated with hot towels or the faradic current directly applied by sterilized gauze electrodes, the rubber ligature being loosened at the same time. If contraction sets in, the wound may be closed by sutures, the first tier including the entire thickness of the uterine wall except the endometrium, and the second tier being passed as Lembert sutures. The abdominal wound is rapidly closed. If uterine contraction cannot be brought about, the uterus should be removed. Hysterectomy is also indicated when Cesarean section is performed for the deformity of osteomalacia, because that disease improves after removal of the uterus. It is also advisable if septic infection is feared, and sometimes when the uterus is the seat of malignant disease. In cases of irremediable obstruction of the parturient canal by deformity or other- wise, the woman should be given the choice whether she will have the organ removed or run the chance of a subsecpaent impregnation. Oophorectomy might also be considered in such cases. If hysterectomy is decided upon, it should be completed in the most rapid way, transfixing the pedicle with pins above the rubber ligature which is left in place, and securing it extra- peritoneally in the lower angle of the wound. If the mother is in good condition, the intraperitoneal method may be employed, as in an operation for fibroids, or the edges of the stump may be inverted through the soft and dilatable cervix into the vagina after hemorrhage has been controlled by