FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 452 Symptoms.—When the greater tuberosity is separated it will be drawn backward by the action of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor muscles, while the shaft of the humerus will be carried inward by the sub- scapularis and forward by the pectoralis major muscle ; the articulation will be increased in breadth, and, if the swelling is not too great, both the head of the bone and the tuberosity may be felt; there will be loss of voluntary outward rotation, and upon manipulation pain and crepitus. In this fracture union is fibrous. Treatment.—The dressing employed in fracture of the greater tuberos- ity of the humerus is similar to that employed in fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus. Fracture or Separation of the Upper Epiphysis of the Hu- merus.—This injury, which is quite rare, is seen in children, and is not likely to occur after twenty years of age, at which time bony union of the epiphysis has occurred. Separation of the upper epiphysis of the humerus does not necessarily open the shoulder-joint. It usually results from falls upon the shoulder, or from force transmitted through the arm, or from trac- tion upon the arm. Epiphyseal separations are said to interfere with the subsequent growth of the bones. Symptoms.—The prominent symptoms in this injury are pain, mobil- ity, crepitus, and loss of function. There may be very little deformity if a portion of the periosteum remains untorn; in a large proportion of cases, however, a wedge-shaped prominence can be felt (Fig. 354) immediately Fig. 355. Fig. 354. Deformity in separation of the upper epiphysis of the right humerus. Skiagraph of separation of the upper epiphysis of the humerus. (By Professor Goodspeed.) above the coracoid process of the scapula in front of the shoulder, which moves with motions of the shaft of the bone, and is the upper end of the lower fragment. The deltoid muscle is tense, and the head of the bone can be felt to occupy its normal position. The deformity in separation of the upper epiphysis of the humerus is shown in Fig. 355. To obtain crepitus it is necessary to make extension upon the arm and to push the shaft of the