INJURIES OF THE PENIS. 1133 Mi Spontaneous restoration of scrotum after complete loss by sloughing. be done by forming a bridge-like flap from the skin of the lower part of the abdomen, between two horizontal incisions, one at the pubes and the other several inches higher, and slip- ping the denuded organ under this bridge. One week later one end of the flap is divided and the end turned in and secured around the penis. After another week the other pedicle may also be di- vided and secured in like manner. The only difficulty in the opera- tion consists in the liability of the wound to infection from the urine. Ablation.—The penis has often been amputated by insane persons or in savage warfare without any attempt to control hemorrhage, and recovery has ensued in spite of the great loss of blood. The forcible bending of the penis while in erection, by a severe blow, by awkward attempts at coitus, or in trying to straighten the curve produced in chordee with the hands, results in an injury to which has been given the name of fracture of the penis. The fibrous coat of the corpus cavernosum is ruptured by these means, and a hseinatoma is formed. Recovery takes place with permanent destruction of some of the erectile tissue in the neigh- borhood of the injury, and results in a curve in the organ during erection on account of the difference between the two sides. This deformity may remain permanently. A severe blow upon the penis when in a flaccid con- dition may cause it to be displaced under the skin of the pubes, its loose connections with the sheath being broken, and even the firmer union of the glans and the foreskin giving way. This accident, which is called disloca- tion of the penis, most frequently happens in children. Micturition becomes difficult, coition is impossible, and very often the power of erection is also lost. If seen early, these dislocations may be reduced and the penis restored to its natural position, but if neglected it may be very difficult to obtain proper coverings for the organ, even when it has been freed by open incision, as the original cutaneous sheath has become atrophied. Laceration of the frenum frequently takes place during coitus, and dangerous hemorrhage has been known to follow, but the accident is usually of importance only because it produces a raw surface, which is very liable to venereal infection. Constriction.—A very common injury of the penis is that produced by placing upon it some tight constricting object, such as a ring, or by tying a string around it in its flaccid state, which cannot be removed when erection follows. The erection is succeeded by permanent swelling of the parts beyond by oedema, and, as shame is apt to prevent the immediate disclosure of the fact, the removal of the object may become exceedingly