800 BURNS OF CONJUNCTIVA. or the eye may be treated with a pressure bandage to prevent staphyloma, and atropine instilled to favor reduction of the hernia and prevent iritis. If the wounding substance penetrates still deeper, it may lacerate the iris, the capsule of the lens, or the lens proper, and the accident is then followed by the symptoms already detailed under traumatic cataract. If the injury is not so severe as to require surgical interference, atropine should be instilled to alleviate the traumatic iritis which will follow, and iced compresses should be applied for several days. Wounds passing through the ciliary body, or penetrating the sclera farther on towards the equator, are of much more serious nature. If the lesion has been an extensive one, and especially if infection has entered and purulent iritis has begun, sight being lost, the eyeball should be enucleated or eviscerated, to avoid the danger of sympathetic inflammation of the oppo- site eye. If the wound is not too extensive, and if the ciliary body is not involved and infection has not begun, an attempt should be made to save the eye by suturing the wound. First, the edges of the wound should be carefully cleansed and pencilled with a solution of bichloride of mercury 1 to 5000 ; then the overlying conjunctiva may be stitched in the ordinary manner, or the sutures may pass directly through the sclera. A full anti- septic dressing may be applied, or, if there is much reaction, iced com- presses. These directions apply only when the surgeon has satisfied himself that there is no foreign body retained within the eye. Under the latter circumstances the treatment differs according to the directions given in a subsequent paragraph. Burns and Scalds of the Conjunctiva and Cornea.—These are commonly inflicted with acids, lime, molten metal, flame, hot water, or steam, and are especially serious because they may be followed, particularly when lime or other caustic has come in contact with the conjunctiva, by the development of a symblepharon. After a superficial burn of the cornea the whole surface epithelium may be changed into a white scum. The de- stroyed tissue, however, is speedily replaced by a new layer of epithelium. If lime or metal is splashed into the eye, all particles should be removed at once by flooding the eye with the water from a spigot. An acid may be neutralized with a weak alkali. The subsequent treatment calls for the instillation of an emollient, for example, castor oil and atropine drops. An excellent plan is to incorporate the atropine with liquid vaseline, which is introduced into the conjunctival cul-de-sac. Great care should be taken to prevent adhesion of the lids to the eyeball. This may sometimes be accom- plished by introducing between the burned surfaces a small sheet of gold- beater's-skin. Powder-burns of the cornea must be treated on the principles just described after the particles of powder have been removed from the corneal tissue with a spud or cataract-needle. Dr. Edward Jackson advises that each powder-grain shall be touched with the point of a fine electro-cautery needle. Foreign Bodies on the Cornea and Conjunctiva.—Foreign bodies usually consist of particles of sand, splinters of iron, bits of emery, or cinders, and they may lodge under the lid, in the lower cul-de-sac, or become