DIPHTHERITIC LARYNGITIS. 849 Fig. 731. ulcers. The cartilages are frequently involved in the disease, and may be largely destroyed; and as the result of extensive ulceration and the subsequent cicatrization marked stenosis occurs. Treatment.—This con- sists in the administration of mercury or iodide of potassium in full doses, according to the stage of the disease, and the local use of antiseptic sprays or those containing mercury in solution. If acute oedema of the larynx, or stenosis from cicatricial contraction, develops, causing dyspnoea, intubation or tracheotomy may be demanded. Diphtheritic Laryngitis.—This form of laryngitis, which is also de- scribed as membranous laryngitis, is characterized by inflammation of the mucous membrane of the larynx, with the deposit of a tough fibrous exudation or membrane, in which are in- corporated pus-corpuscles and epithelial elements from the underlying mucous membrane. The membrane may develop primarily in the larynx, or it may spread to it secondarily from the pharynx, and may extend into the trachea and bronchi. (Fig. 731.) The invari- able presence in the exudation of a special organism, the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus, has led to the recognition of this organism as the specific cause of the disease. This form of laryngitis is very common in children, but is rarely seen in adults, is often epidemic, and is ac- companied by fever, a rapid pulse, enlargement of the submaxillary glands, and marked constitutional de- pression. Symptoms.—The symptoms of diphtheritic laryngitis are a croupy cough, suppression of the voice, gradually increasing dyspnoea, and cyanosis of the face, with restlessness; as the dyspnoea becomes more marked the patient sits up in bed and assumes the position in which the accessory muscles of respiration are brought into play. Inspection of the chest shows sinking in of the lower part of the chest and the upper part of the abdomen in inspiration, as well as of the tissues of the suprasternal notch and the supraclavicular spaces. Treatment.—This consists in the administration of bichloride of mer- cury, strychnine, and stimulants, and the patient should be given an easily assimilated and nutritious diet. The extensive use of antitoxine during the last few years has demonstrated its value, and it should be given hypo- dermically in doses of two thousand units, for a child three years of age, the injection being repeated within twelve or twenty-four hours if neces- sary, the action of the antitoxine being shown by the thinning and dis- appearance of the membrane, which usually occurs within from twenty- four to seventy-two hours. In addition to the constitutional infection in these cases there is often more or less dyspnoea, from the presence of the exudation and the swollen and oedematous condition of the mucous mem- brane of the larynx. If the dyspnoea is not urgent, we have found the use of a steam or hand spray of soda solution (Parker's solution), composed of carbonate of sodium, si; glycerin, ,si; water, fsvi, to be followed by the most satisfactory results. This spray should be used at frequent in- 54 Tubular cast of mem- brane in larynx and tra- chea extending into the bronchial tubes.