117 PAPILLOMA. small blood-vessel—a formation which explains the frequency of dangerous hemorrhage, especially in the papillomata of a very soft mucous membrane like the intestine or the bladder. (Fig. 81.) The growths differ in the thickness of the layers of epithelium over the papillae, the thickened epithe- lial coat sometimes forming the principal mass of the tumor, while in other cases it is very thin and the mass is formed by the large fibrous bodies of the papilke. Occurrence.—Papillomata are found in regions where papillae nor- mally occur, such as the skin and mucous membranes of the body. They are common on the skin in the form of the ordinary wart, in the larynx, in the bladder, and in the rectum. The frequent association of papillomata Fig. 81. « 8 \) 1 , c, V a. e>. o L, Papilloma of urinary bladder, x 50: II., one of the villi of I., highly magnified : a, central blood-vessel. (F. C. Wood, M.D.) about the genital tract with a venereal disease which causes an irritating discharge shows very clearly the influence of chronic irritation in producing these growths. Their common occurrence in the larynx of singers is another proof of the same effect. Clinical Appearance.—The growths may be single, but more fre- quently they are multiple, and sometimes they occur in very large numbers. On the skin they may cover the entire hand or the genitals, and in the larynx they may block the organ completely. Multiple papillomata are also the rule in the rectum. In the bladder they occasionally attain a large size, but their bases are usually small. They may be warty or polypoid in shape. History.—On the skin their presence has no clinical significance, but on the genitals they retain the secretions of the parts. In the larynx they may completely obstruct the opening, and even minute papillomata upon the edges of the vocal cords may interfere with their movements and cause hoarseness and loss of voice. Iu the rectum they are serious mainly from the discharges which they excite. Papilloma of the bladder is one of the