901 CHRONIC MASTITIS. being quite common behind the breast as a result of caries of the ribs. The retromammary abscess usually forms a rather flat swelling, extending to the margin of the breast and pushing the gland forward in front of it. The diagnosis can generally be made by the great thickness of tissue which exists between the pus and the skin, and the even distention apparently affecting the whole region of the gland. In the case of cold abscess there will be an absence of acute symptoms. It is important to make the diag- nosis in these cases in order that the abscess may be opened without cutting through the glandular tissue, which is easily done by a semilunar incision at the margin of the breast. The cold abscesses can sometimes be cured by aspiration, followed by injection of iodoform emulsion. Chronic Mastitis.—Chronic mastitis may be either a slight infection of low grade, resulting in very slow suppuration, or a non suppurative in- flammation, affecting mainly the interstitial tissues of the breast. In the suppurative form small deposits of pus occur in the gland and may per- sist for months or years with few or no symptoms. They may be mistaken for malignant tumors, the nipple often being retracted and the skin ad- herent, and the abscesses usually being surrounded by indurated tissue. They may involve one lobe of the gland or the entire organ. It is not improbable that a large majority of these cases are instances of tuberculosis. Interstitial chronic mastitis may involve only one lobe or the entire breast. It is shown by thickening of the fibrous stroma, the strands of which appear thickened, and microscopical examination reveals congestion of the tissues, with some round-cell infiltration and new production of fibrous tissue. The process may remain stationary or may slowly extend. It is frequently associated with the production of cysts, caused by obstruction of the milk-ducts or of the lymphatics, and the contents of these cysts—blood, milk, or serum—are apt to become very dark with age. The breast feels firmer than normal, and the fingers can recognize small, hard nodules and bands passing through it in different directions. In some cases the gland seems distended almost as if by a diffuse tumor or as if injected with wax. Treatment.—There is no treatment for chronic mastitis except removal of the organ, and, as the condition sometimes results in the development of malignant disease, amputation is to be recommended when it is well marked. We have a specimen from a case of chronic mastitis which involved the whole breast and contained several cysts, showing on the margin of one of these cysts a minute patch of beginning carcinoma. This was the only par- ticle of malignant disease in the gland, and the patient was still free from recurrence four years after the removal of the breast. Tuberculosis of the Breast.—Tuberculosis of the breast, except as a result of extension from tuberculous glands in the axilla or from tubercu- lous disease in the chest or ribs, is rare. In the primary form the disease may occur at any age, although the great majority of the patients are be- tween the thirtieth and fiftieth years. It seems to be equally common in male and female, and it has no connection with pregnancy or lactation. The disease may be diffused through the entire breast or limited to one lobe. It appears in the shape of a tuberculous infiltration with the forma-