175 MANY-TAILED BANDAGES. Fig. 99. Double T-bandage. purpose as the single T-bandage ; it may be used for retaining dressings to the chest, back, or abdomen ; when employed for this purpose the horizontal portion should be from eight to twelve inches wide, and long enough to pass one and a quarter times about the chest; two vertical strips, each two inches wide and twenty inches long, should be attached to the hori- zontal strip a short distance apart, near its middle. In applying this bandage to the chest the horizontal strip is placed around the chest so that the vertical strips occupy a position on either side of the spine; the overlapping end of the horizontal portion is se- cured by pins or safety-pins, and the vertical strips are next carried one over either shoulder and secured to the other portion of the bandage in front of the chest. Many-Tailed Bandages or Slings.—Many-tailed bandages are pre- pared from pieces of muslin of various lengths and breadths, which are split at each extremity into two or three or more tails up to within a few inches of the centre, their width and length being regulated by the part Fig. 101. of the body to which they are to be applied. (Fig. 100.) Four- tailed bandages may be found use- ful as temporary dressings in cases of fracture of the jaw or clavicle or in retaining dressings to the scalp. The many-tailed bandage may also be used in holding dress- ings in contact with the abdomen Fig. 100. Four-tailed sling. Modified bandage of Scultetus. or trunk, and is the bandage which most surgeons employ to hold dressings, to the laparotomy wound and to give support to the abdominal walls after this operation. In preparing this bandage for the abdomen, a strip of muslin or flannel, one and a half yards in length and from eighteen to twenty inches in width, has the extremities split so as to form an eight- tailed bandage; or a modified bandage of Scultetus, which is made by stitching together in their centre a number of overlapping strips of flannel about three or four inches in width, may be employed. (Fig. 101.) In applying this bandage to the abdomen the body of the bandage is placed under the patient's back, and the tails are brought around the abdomen and made to overlap each other, and when firmly drawn to make the desired amount of pressure they are secured by means of safety-pins.