879 WOUNDS OF THE HEART AND PERICARDIUM. however, the ball has penetrated both chest-walls and the lung, and is arrested under the skin and can be located, it should be removed, and the wounds sterilized and dressed antiseptically. In penetrating gunshot wounds caused by small shot at short range, or by fragments of wood or stone from blasting accidents or explosions, when a portion of the chest-wall is torn away, exposing the lung or even lacerating or tearing away a por- tion, a most serious injury is presented. Such cases should be treated by first disinfecting the wound as far as possible, removing foreign bodies which may be present, packing the wound loosely with sterilized gauze, and covering the region with a large gauze dressing. Under this method of treatment it is not unusual to have recovery follow, even when there has been extensive destruction of both the chest-wall and the lung. Wounds of the Mediastinum.—The mediastinal space is occupied by the heart surrounded by its pericardium, the great vessels, the descending aorta, the oesophagus, and the pneumogastric nerves. Wounds of the Heart and Pericardium.—Rupture of the heart and pericardium may occur as the result of contusion of the chest without frac- ture of the ribs. Traumatic ruptures of the heart and pericardium are in- variably followed by a fatal result, death usually occurring promptly, but in a few cases life has been prolonged for a few hours. The heart, pericar- dium, and great vessels may be injured by incised, punctured, lacerated, and gunshot wounds, and, although the prognosis in these wounds is always grave, death in many cases taking place very promptly, in a number of instances recovery has followed. Death may result from shock and pulmo- nary anaemia, from pressure upon the heart of the blood in the pericardium, or from direct injury of the cardiac muscle preventing its contraction. Symptoms.—The symptoms of wounds of the heart are sharp pain, car- diac syncope, feebleness of heart-sounds, dulness upon percussion, and enlargement of the normal area of dulness, caused by hemorrhage into the pericardium. Treatment.—The patient's head should be lowered, to prevent syncope from cerebral anaemia, external warmth should be applied, and opium given to relieve pain, and, if reaction occurs, cardiac sedatives should be admin- istered. Foreign bodies may penetrate and become lodged in the heart, and their re- moval should be attempted if their position can be located and their presence causes marked disturbance. Patients have recovered with foreign bodies remaining in the organ, and a few cases have been recorded of the successful removal of foreign bodies from the heart. Wounds of the great vessels at the base of the heart and of the descending aorta are usually promptly fatal and are beyond the reach of surgical treatment. Wounds of the Diaphragm.—The position of the diaphragm varies with the respiratory movements, and may be markedly changed by disten- tion of the abdominal contents or cavity, or by thoracic tumors or pleuritic effusions : hence it may be injured by wounds out of its ordinary situation. Rupture of the diaphragm may result from contusion of the chest, as well as from a similar injury to the abdomen, and is more common on the left than on the right side, the liver upon the right side possibly protecting it to