APPENDICITIS. 954 made more evident by forward pressure in the loin by the hand, and occa- sionally it can be felt in the rectum and not anteriorly, but this is excep- tional until late in the disease. The vomiting may be very slight or absent, or it may be very persistent, obstinate vomiting being a sign of general peritonitis or profound sepsis. When the inflammation becomes general, tympanites develops, with an increase of the other symptoms. The secondary effects of an abscess from appendicitis may be abscess of the liver, subphrenic suppuration, distant metastatic foci, or a general pyaemia, and it is by no means necessary that the abscess around the appen- dix should be unusually large or infectious to produce this result, as we have seen cases in which the secondary abscesses were the first symptoms noticed by the patient and his family, the disease of the appendix having given no recognizable symptoms. Chronic appendicitis occurs in several varieties. The symptoms may begin acutely and then quiet down to slight tenderness and attacks of pain, and perhaps constipation, with or without a tumor. If all symptoms dis- appear and other attacks follow after a completely free interval, the cases are called recurrent. If the patient is never entirely well and has numer- ous exacerbations, the case is known as relapsing appendicitis. In both varieties removal of the appendix is advisable in well-marked cases. The lesions found in these cases are various, such as adhesions, thickening of the wall, empyema, encapsulated abscesses, and fecal concretions. Diagnosis.—Gastro-Enteritis.—The localized pain and tenderness and the great prostration of the patient indicate appendicitis, and the symptoms of gastro enteritis can generally be brought under control within a short time. The vomiting is apt to be more violent in the gastric attacks. Fecal impaction in the caecum is said to resemble appendicitis, but it would appear to be a very rare condition according to our modern experience, and the same is true of typhlitis. In gall-stone colic there will, as a rule, be a history of previous similar attacks of jaundice, or of gall-stones found in the stools, the pain is felt to shoot backward to the right shoulder, and the col- lapse from the pain is usually greater. In cholecystitis the tumor formed by the gall-bladder is rather higher up than the mass felt in appendicitis, and it can usually be felt as a tense round cyst, unless there is a peritoneal abscess around it, while the tumor of the appendicular abscess is more irregular, rather doughy, and less distinct in outline. Renal colic may sometimes resemble appendicitis, but the previous history, the reduction in the quan- tity of urine, and the pain running down the ureter will give the clue, and there will be no tumor in the ileo-caecal region. A tumor of a kidney which was low down, and particularly a floating kidney in which the ureter had become twisted, and some cases of pyonephrosis, might give rise to doubt, but a thorough examination of the tumor should settle the diagnosis, the kidney tumor being higher up and more easily reached from the back, and generally being movable upward towards the diaphragm. Obscure cases of typhoid fever may sometimes be confounded with appendicitis, especially as pain in the ileo-caecal region is a common symptom in the early stages, but the pain is less acute, and the presence of an eruption on the abdomen and the characteristic temperature record should prevent confusion.