735 TUMORS OF THE FACE. cut off, but a better method is to split the mucous membrane along the lower edge of the vomer and detach the membrane on each side, then to excise a triangular piece of the cartilage, which will allow the projecting bone to be forced back into line. The edges of the central part of the lip are to be pared. (Fig. 662. ) The lip is united by deep sutures of heavy silk or silk- worm-gut, which shoidd be passed through its entire thickness except the mucous membrane, and by finer silk sutures through the skin and mucous membrane only, care being taken to adjust the vermilion border accurately. When there is great tension, hare-lip pins may be necessary, which are introduced like the deep sutures, and the wound is then drawn together by twisting a sterilized thread in figure-of-eight turns over the ends of each pin. Other clefts occur in the face. A lateral cleft may exist at the ala of the nose where it joins the cheek, or between the lateral frontal projec- tion and the projection which makes the upper jaw. The first of these lat- eral clefts is necessarily small, but the second may be very extensive, for in early foetal life the eye is found at the upper outward angle of this cleft, and the deformity may extend up to the eye or even farther. A lateral cleft is also seen at the angle of the mouth, producing the condition known as microstoma, in which the mouth is abnormally large, extending sometimes as far back as the ramus of the jaw. Clefts in the lower lip are extremely rare, and are often associated with a cleft in the lower jaw and even in the tongue. A delayed closure of any of the foetal clefts occasionally takes place, producing an unsightly scar indicating the line of the fissure. Some- times there is an over-production of tissue in the lines of the clefts, espe- cially at the angles of their junction, and small fibrous nodules or pigmented nsevi are formed. The nodules are known as congenital tubercles, and are most frequent at the root of the nose and in the centre of the cheek. In other cases a sinus or dimple may be left, and in the lower lip a double sinus is occasionally seen, with two minute openings symmetrically placed. Such deformities as absence of an eye or of the nose, or congenital closure of the eyelids or of one nostril, or too great narrowing of the mouth (microstoma), are Fig. 663. found, but they are very rare. Tumors.—Nearly all varieties of tumors are found in the face. Fibromata are seen in the skin as small, hard nodules or moder- ately soft tumors. They should uot be con- founded with congenital tubercles. They may form large flat moles, pigmented, and covered with hair—the so-called hairy nrevus. (Fig. 663.) These disfiguring patches are con- genital, and if very large cannot be treated with success. The smaller moles may be ex- cised. They are liable to malignant degener- Hclir3' n DrURoberTAbbe)t0aSe 01 ation. In some cases a soft fibromatous change in the skin produces large pendulous masses, which hang from the forehead, draw the eye out of place, displace the nose by pressure, distort the mouth by the swelling of the lips, and even change the shape of the bones of the skull