103 TREATMENT OF ANGIOMA. frequency of cirsoid aneurism is ascribed by some to the more energetic treatment of angioma. Treatment.—The various methods of treatment of angioma may be divided into three classes : first, entire removal by excision or destruction by the cautery; secondly, the production of thrombosis in the vessels by ligation at a distance, or in the tumor by injec- tion of styptic fluids or transfixion by threads Fig. 63. impregnated with styptic fluids ; or, finally, the production of cicatrization by the induction of suppuration, by multiple scarification, by the Fig. 62. Extensive subfascial angioma of neck, not involving the skin. Angioma of hand in a boy of fourteen years, advancing steadily and compelling ampu- tation of a finger and finally of the hand. actual cautery, or by electrolysis. The choice of the method of treatment will vary with the particular tumor to be treated, and with its situation. When the tumor is small or pedunculated, excision is probably the best method of treatment, for the edges of the wound can then be brought together without tension and only a slight scar is the result. The operation is not difficult if the incision is made through the healthy skin beyond the dilated vessels, and the hemorrhage will be no greater than in any ordinary wound. Excision is especially suited for angiomata of the scalp, for the blood-supply can be controlled in such cases by pressure with the assistant's hands around the tumor while the surgeon makes his in- cisions. Even upon the face excision is the best method of treatment, when the tumor is not extensive and narrow linear scars can be produced which correspond more or less with the natural wrinkles or folds in the skin. De- struction of the tumors by the cautery or caustics, such as nitric acid, should be reserved for very small tumors, on account of the slow healing and unsightly scars, but is the method preferred for such tumors by some surgeons. In the method of treatment by thrombosis we may act on the old suggestion to pass ligatures through the base of the tumor in the healthy tissue with the idea of constricting the blood-supply of the part, as explained