727 CEREBRAL LOCALIZATION. A korseskoe-skaped osteoplastic flap is made in the temporal region witk its base at tke zygoma. A little more of tke bone at tke base of tke skull is gnawed away witk rongeurs, and tken, wkile tke bone-flap is strongly re- tracted and turned down towards tke ckeek, and tke brain covered by tke uninjured dura is drawn inward by a very broad retractor, tke Gasserian ganglion is seen at tke bottom of tke wound. Tke ganglion is to be seized witk strong forceps after being separated by blunt dissection, tke second and third divisions of tke nerve cut across as close as possible to tke foram- ina of exit, and tke central nerve-root and tke first division slowly twisted out by rotating tke forceps. Tke mortality from tkis operation is still kigk (ten per cent.), on account of its difficulties and tke feeble state of tke patients, but tke results as to a permanent cure promise to be excellent. Localization.—Tke recent advances in brain surgery have all depended upon tke introduction of strict asepsis, wkick reduces tke danger of tke operations, and upon tke establisked facts of localization, wkick enable us to determine tke exact site of tke various lesions. Tke doctrine of localization is briefly tkis. Each function of tke brain is carried on by some particular part, called a centre, and tke removal or destruction by disease of any centre causes tke loss of tke corresponding function. It is possible in some cases for other parts of tke brain to take up tke work of certain centres wken destroyed, but tkis substitution is so slow and imperfect that it can be dis- regarded in making a diagnosis. Tke centre for speech, for example, is usu- ally situated on tke left side of the kead in right-handed persons, and an injury upon that side of tke kead appears sufficient to produce complete aphasia, wkick may remain permanently in some persons, but in tke major- ity tke power of speeck returns after an interval, because of tke education of tke similar part of tke brain on tke other side. Tke ckief motor centres are skown in Fig. 653 as they lie clustered about tke fissure of Eolando, those of tke leg being near tke vertex, and tkose of tke arm and tke face lower down. Their position may be defined by certain external landmarks. Technical names have been given to cer- tain points upon tke skull, suck as tke nasion, tke junction of tke nasal and frontal bones ; tke glabella, tke protuberance just above tke root of tke nose ; tke inion, tke occipital protuberance ; tke pterion, tke meeting point of tke sphenoid witk the frontal, parietal, and temporal bones; the bregma, tke junction of tke sagittal and coronal sutures ; tke stephanion, where tke tem- poral ridge crosses tke coronal suture ; the asterion, the meeting point of the parietal, occipital, and temporal bones ; and the lambda, the junction of tke sagittal and lambdoid sutures. Reid's base-line, wkick is used in certain measurements, is a line indi- cated by a plane passing through tke infra-orbital ridge and tke centre of tke external auditory meatus on either side of the kead and continued back- ward towards tke occiput. (Fig. 650, h, /;'.) Tke transverse fissure lies just above this plane across the back of the head. To find the fissure of Rolando (Thane-Hare), the distance from the glabella to the inion is measured, and .557 of this distance measured back- ward from the point of the glabella will mark tke upper end of the fissure of Eolando. In most skulls tkis is kalf an inck behind tke middle point of