LIPOMA. 92 Fig. 52. impression of hypertrophy or elephantiasis of the skin. (Fig. 52.) The disease is essentially a new growth of the nerve-sheath, and it may finally involve all the cerebro spinal nerves, although it is very slow in its exten- sion, and may remain limited to the nerves of one limb or even to one group. The change never invades the central nervous system, but is arrested at the foramina of exit of the nerves, and the optic and auditory nerves are never affected. The disease is generally supposed to be of congeni- tal origin, although it is seldom recog- nized during infancy. It produces neither paralysis nor pain, and ex- tends insidiously until large tumors may be produced. The latter are apt to become sarcomatous in structure and recur when removed. No treat- ment is possible in this disease, although some recent writers have ad- vocated thorough extirpation when the disease is limited to one nerve or one group of nerves. Treatment.—The removal of fibromata is a simple operation, as they are usually well encapsulated. The capsule, however, should be re- moved, as the growth appears, in some cases at least, to come from the cap- sule. All prolongations of the tumor in one direction or another are to be removed also, or the tumor may be reproduced. The treatment of keloid is very difficult and unsatisfactory. Small keloids may be excised and the wound sutured, but they are apt to return even when perfect aseptic healing of the wound is obtained. Of other measures, that most generally in use is multiple scarification with cross-hatching lines. With a very sharp knife fine lines are carried across the tumor, cutting completely through its epithelial surface, some twelve to twenty to the inch, reaching to the healthy tissue at the edges of the growth, and crossed by another set at right angles to the first. If the knife be very sharp, this treatment may be rapidly executed, and is not very painful, but local anaesthesia can easily be produced by cocaine injections or by the ethyl chloride or other cold sprays. Attempts to remove the keloid by electrolysis have not been very successful. Plexiform fibroma of peroneal nerve. (Hulke.) LIPOMA. A lipoma is a tumor formed of fatty tissue, and, as fat is of almost uni- versal distribution in the body, lipomata are to be found everywhere. The microscopic structure of the tumor consists of a loose fibrous stroma, with