ACCIDENTS DURING CHLOROFORM ANAESTHESIA. 258 Profound chloroform anaesthesia is manifested by insensibility of the conjunctiva to the touch, absence of the reflexes, complete muscular relaxa- tion, and, usually, contracted pupils. When this stage is reached the in- halation should be stopped, and after this time only so much chloroform should be administered as is sufficient to keep the patient fully under its influence. Complete anaesthesia should be produced before any operation is begun : if undertaken before that time, syncope may be produced by reflex inhi- bition of the heart. If convulsive movements take place before the patient is fully anaesthetized, and the face becomes cyanosed, the inhalation should be discontinued until these symptoms disappear. The pupils should also be carefully watched, to see if they respond to light or if they are con- tracted. If the anaesthesia is not complete, insensibility to light or wide dilatation is a sign of danger which calls for the removal of the anaesthetic and active treatment to stimulate the circulation and respiration. If the inhalation of chloroform has been stopped and is again in a short time resorted to, it should be given very carefully and slowly, for syncope may suddenly develop from the fact that the heart or the respiration may feel the effect of the previous use of the drug. Accidents during Chloroform Anaesthesia.—Mechanical asphyxia may occur during anaesthesia produced by chloroform, as well as that by ether, by the obstruction of the respiratory passages by blood, mucus, for- eign bodies, or the tongue falling backward over the epiglottis. These accidents should be treated in the same manner as similar accidents occur- ring during etherization. Considerable diversity of opinion exists among different observers as to whether death resulting from chloroform is due to failure of the heart or failure of. the respiration, and each has brought for- ward a large amount of evidence to prove his views correct. Although it has been demonstrated that chloroform is a direct depressant and par- alyzant to the heart-muscle or its contained ganglia, yet clinical experience shows that paralysis of the respiratory centres is probably the most im- portant factor in causing death during chloroform anaesthesia, for circu- latory failure in these cases is due to embarrassed or suspended breathing, and the only method of treatment which has been found of value is that which tends to bring about respiratory action—namely, some one of the various forms of artificial respiration. Death from the administration of chloroform results from cardiac failure or from respiratory arrest, and the dangerous symptoms develop so rapidly that the greatest promptness is required to meet them. Syncope developing during the administration of chloroform, manifested by pallor, fluttering or arrested pulse, and cessation of respiration, should be treated by lowering the patient's head, the use of a rapidly inter- rupted electric current, the hypodermic injection of digitalis, atropine, or strychnine, and the employment of artificial respiration, either the direct method or Laborde's method, and, as in cases of threatened death from ether, the treatment should not be desisted from for some time, as by per- sistent employment of these means apparently hopeless cases have been resuscitated.