INTRODUCTION OF URETHRAL INSTRUMENTS. 1078 Charriere scale is most frequently used, and its numbers give the diameter of the instruments in one-third of a millimetre, and therefore nearly corre- spond with the circumference in millimetres. No. 3 is thus 1 millimetre in diameter and 3.1416 millimetres in circumference, and No. 30 is 10 milli- metres in diameter and 31.416 millimetres in circumference. For very tight strictures filiform bougies of whalebone are employed of a diameter of one millimetre or less, straight, or bent to an angle or made spiral at the end. Flexible bougies and catheters may be made of soft rub- ber, but the smaller instruments need to be stiffer, and are made of linen or silk thread covered with shellac, often called "gum" bougies. Sometimes a soft wire stylet is inserted to stiffen them and give them certain shapes. A very useful flexible instrument is the "whip bougie," which tapers from a filiform point to 15 French and is very long. The stiff bougies are generally made of metal and are called sounds, those of polished steel being most common and most useful. The sounds have a straight shaft, and the end bent to the curve of a circle three and one-quarter inches in diameter, which is the subpubic curve of the normal urethra, and the beak should never include more than ninety degrees of the circle. The sounds should taper towards the point, which should be two sizes smaller than at the curve. Introduction of Instruments.—The method of introducing these in- struments is as follows. The patient lies upon his back, and the surgeon, standing by his side, takes the penis in one hand, while with the other he gently passes the instrument into the canal. If a flexible instrument is used, the penis is held vertical and placed somewhat on the stretch, so that the canal shall be rendered rigid. In the introduction of a stiff instrument its point should be gently inserted into the meatus, and the sound then held steady, with its shaft parallel to Poupart's ligament, while the hand holding the penis gently draws the organ up over the sound. Very slowly and gently the ad- vance is made, with slight rotary movements, until the sound has passed the peno-scrotal junction, when the beak of the instrument should be turned backward (towards the bladder), and the shaft brought into the median line of the body. The hold upon the penis is then relaxed, the handle of the sound is slowly raised, and the instrument is allowed to slip downward of its own weight, following the natural curve of the urethra. The shaft thus gradually becomes vertical, showing that the point of the sound is in the neighborhood of the triangular ligament. If it is necessary to pass the sound into the bladder, the handle is turned still farther downward in the same curve towards the patient's thighs with great gentleness, the sound being allowed to enter simply by its weight and without pressure. This manoeuvre can be assisted by laying the other hand flat upon the surface of the abdo- men, just above the pubes, and drawing the skin downward, which relaxes the tension of the parts at the root of the penis. With a very relaxed urethra there may be obstruction to the sound at the peno-scrotal junction and at the triangular ligament, the point of the sound pushing the abnormally soft urethral wall before it like a pouch. The former is overcome by pulling the penis strongly up on the sound to- wards the umbilicus, and the latter by lifting the sound a trifle when its