1156 TUMORS OF THE PROSTATE. line, carried inward until the urethra is exposed, and then the point of a narrow-bladed knife should be thrust directly upward between the rectum and the urethra, under the guidance of the finger in the rectum, until the pus is reached. The opening is enlarged by dilating it with forceps, and the cavity is irrigated and drained. This method is not very difficult, but it is much safer to expose the capsule of the prostate by the horseshoe-shaped flap described above and then open the abscess under the guidance of the eye. If properly treated, these cases usually recover without evil consequences, but fistula? are apt to follow if they are neglected, and if they open spontaneously into the rectum burrowing and sepsis will take place from additional infection of the abscess. Tumors.—Hypertrophy of the prostate, which is the most common form of tumor of that organ, is a fibroinyo-adenoma, but it has already been considered in connection with the diseases of the bladder on account of its intimate relation to urinary diseases and the slight effect which it has upon the sexual function. Other neoplasms are found in the prostate, such as lipoma, but they are very rare, and only the malignant tumors require description. Sarcoma is found at all ages, and several cases have been observed in infancy. Carcinoma is more frequent in advanced adult life, but has also been noted at a very early age. In both varieties of tumor no symptoms are evident until the mass has attained a considerable size and interferes with urination or ulcerates on the vesical or urethral surface and produces hematuria and cystitis. At this stage rectal examination will reveal the prostate enlarged, stony hard to the touch, with indistinct outlines, and firmly fixed by the infiltration of the surrounding parts. Occasionally the gland is soft instead of hard. Operation is out of the question, and palliative measures, similar to those for advanced cancer of the base of the bladder, afford the only possible treatment. The disease is fortunately not common. THE SEMINAL VESICLES. The seminal vesicles are generally associated with the prostate in its in- flammations, any form of prostatitis being liable to be accompanied by swelling of the seminal vesicles from retention or inflammation. In ca- tarrhal prostatitis the condition of the seminal vesicles should always be ascertained by careful rectal examination, for the ejaculatory ducts are often obstructed and the vesicles suffer from overdistention. In such cases relief can be obtained by regular evacuation or stripping of the vesicles, which is executed by the pressure of the finger, or of a blunt, rounded instrument shaped somewhat like the curved finger, which is passed into the rectum above the organ and made to press forward upon each vesicle in turn so as to empty its contents. Tuberculosis invades the seminal vesicles from the prostate or the testicle. It should be treated similarly to tuberculosis of the prostate, and the organs can be reached by the perineal incision already described for that gland. The seminal vesicles have been successfully re- moved through a similar incision in cases of castration for tuberculosis when the vesicles were secondarily diseased but the prostate was healthy. When the prostate is exposed the rectum is separated from it, and the finger can