410 CHAPTER XIX. SURGERY OP MUSCLES, TENDONS, FASCIA, AND BURSTS. INJUKIES OF MUSCLES. Muscles.—Muscles may present incised, lacerated, and contused wounds; the latter varieties are often subcutaneous. Laceration of muscular tissue may result from the application of external force, or from the sudden, for- cible, and unopposed contraction of a muscle. When the latter accident occurs, the patient usually experiences a sudden sharp pain, with a sense of giving way in the region of injury, and in attempting to move the part finds that there is disability to a greater or lesser extent. Extensive gaping may result from incised and lacerated wounds of the muscles, the amount of separation depending upon the direction and completeness of the division of the muscular fibres ; tr ansverse wounds present these symptoms in a more marked degree than longitudinal wounds. Subcutaneous rupture of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle during birth is probably only a partial rupture, giving rise to the condition known as congenital tumor of the sterno-mastoid, and may cause a form of wry-neck. Strains and sprains of muscles are frequent injuries, and may consist in simple stretching of the fibres of the muscle, or in laceration of some of the muscular fibres ; both of these injuries are capable of producing more or less loss of function in the injured muscle. Repair of muscular tissue takes place largely by the formation of fibrous tissue at the seat of injury. Treatment.—Incised and lacerated wounds of muscles should be treated by the introduction of buried sutures, catgut or silk, between the ends of the divided muscle, to bring them in apposition. When a considerable por- tion of the muscle has been lost and it is impossible to approximate the ends, a number of strong chromicized catgut or kangaroo tendon sutures may be introduced to act as a framework for the deposit of reparative material,— suture a distance; or the gap may be filled by muscle-grafting, a graft of muscle being taken from a freshly killed animal and sutured to the ends of the muscle; the graft should be large enough to fill the gap without pro- ducing tension upon the ends of the muscle when sutured in position ; even if the graft retains its vitality it is eventually converted into fibrous tissue. Subcutaneous wounds of muscles, if not involving the whole thick- ness of the muscles, do not require the application of sutures, but if the mus- cles are completely torn across, the ends should be exposed by incision and buried sutures applied. Strains and sprains of muscles are best treated by strapping, the straps of adhesive plaster being firmly applied, and additional support and fixation being given by the application of splints and bandages.