390 LIGATION OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. recently been employed in a number of'cases with good results, and possesses the advantage that the exposure of the vessels is very free and there is little danger of injury to the veins. Ligation of the External Iliac Artery—The external iliac artery extends from the sacro-iliac junction, along the inner margin of the psoas muscle, to Poupart's ligament. At its upper part the external iliac vein is situ- ated behind, and below it is to the inner side of the vessel. The vessel is exposed by an incision three or four inches in length, half an inch above Poupart's liga- ment, made at first parallel to it, and then curved upward. (Fig. 294, c.) Having divided the tissues of the abdominal wall, the peritoneum is exposed, and should be pushed upward and inward in the same manner as for the exposure of the common iliac artery. (Fig. 295.) The external iliac artery lies at the inner border of the psoas muscle, and the vein is on its inner side ; the anterior crural nerve covered by the iliac fascia is on the outer side ; the genito-crural nerve passes obliquely across the artery. The needle should be passed from within outward. Ligation of the Internal Iliac Artery—The internal iliac artery leaves the common iliac artery at the sacro iliac junction. The psoas magnus muscle is on the outer side of the vessel. The internal iliac vein and the lumbo sacral nerve lie behind, and the peritoneum and ureter are in front of the artery. In ligating this artery the incision is the same as for the external iliac artery. The peritoneum being exposed, it is pushed up- ward and inward, and the internal iliac artery is exposed. The vessel is carefully isolated from the vein which lies behind and on the inner side, and the needle is passed from within outward. Collateral Circulation.—After ligation of the iliac vessels the blood finds its way to the limb below by the ilio lumbar and obturator branches from the internal iliac, anastomosing with the lumbar arteries from the aorta and with the internal circumflex from the profunda femoris. The circum- flex iliac, from the external iliac, also communicates with the lumbar arteries. Ligation of the Gluteal Artery.—The gluteal artery emerges from the pelvis by the great saero-sciatic foramen, above the pyriformis muscle. (Fig. 296.) The gluteal artery may be tied through an incision three or four inches in length, extending from the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium to a point midway between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter. The skin and fascia having been divided, the fibres of the gluteus maxinms muscle are separated and held apart and the deep fascia is divided, and the artery should then be sought for above the pyriformis muscle at the upper Fig. 295. Ligation of the external iliac and femoral ar- teries. (Agnew.)