1201 VAGINAL HYSTERECTOMY. Fig. 915. up, with the soft tissues in the broad ligament between them and the cervix and vagina. If the bladder appears unusually adherent, or the mucous mem- brane of the vagina is involved near it, the urethra should be dilated and the interior examined with the little finger. Involvement of the vagina is less important than that of the parametrium, as the former can be widely extirpated with a good result- Vaginal Hysterectomy.—The usual method of removing a uterus with malignant disease is by the vagina. The patient is placed in the dorsal posi- tion, a perineal retractor is inserted, the cavity thoroughly curetted and packed with gauze, and a stout silk thread passed through the cervix. If healthy tis- sue can be reached, the cervix may be closed by two or three deep sutures. The operator incises the vagina at its junction with the anterior surface of the cervix and strips the bladder from the cervix by blunt dissection, inserting, if necessary, a sound into the bladder in order to determine the limits of the latter. The posterior fornix is opened in the same way, and the mucous membrane is incised upon the side of the cervix. When the patient is anaemic some blood may be saved by dividing the vagi- nal mucous membrane with the cautery, or by suturing the cut edge with an overhand suture as soon as it is divided. (Fig. 915.) Douglas's cul-de-sac is then opened, and under guidance of the finger a curved aneurism-needle or ligature-passer carries a stout silk ligature through the base of the broad ligament quite close to the uterus, which is then tied. This is re- peated on the other side, and the tissues between the ligatures and the uterus are then cut with the scissors and the organ pulled farther down. By a series of three or four ligatures on each side all the tissues of the broad ligament are tied off, the ovaries and Fallopian tubes being drawn into the wound and their vessels included in the final ligature. Some surgeons prefer to invert the uterus and bring the fundus out into the vagina posterioiiy, the cervix then passing up into the peritoneal cavity, after applying the lower ligatures, claiming that it is then easier to secure the upper part of the broad ligament. The uterus is then freed, and can be removed. The wound may be left open and lightly packed with gauze, or the peritoneal surface of the rectum and bladder united across the roof of the vagina. The ligatures are left long, and drop off into the vagina later. Some surgeons use clamps instead of ligatures, those on the proximal side being left in situ for two or three days, their handles, which project from the vagina, being wrapped in gauze. Much greater speed can be attained by the use of clamps than by the use of ligatures, but they are inconvenient. All danger of the ureters being included in the ligatures can be avoided by passing catheters into 76 Vaginal hysterectomy. The bladder has been separated from the uterus and the vagi- nal mucous membrane sutured. (Boldt.)