1154 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE PROSTATE. Fig. 863. tains characteristic needle-shaped crystals, somewhat resembling the simple phosphatic crystals in the urine. Treatment.—Complete abstinence even from sexual thoughts should be advised, with a regular life and plenty of out-door exercise as the foundation of all treatment. The occasional passage of a cold urethral sound of large size, introduced fully into the bladder, so as to straighten the urethral curve, is very useful. This treat- ment is also to be recommended as an aid in lessening the sexual discomfort of men who are beginning a celibate life, having recently been separated from their wives after active marital relations—a class of cases in which mere hyperemia of the prostate causes symptoms similar to those of catarrhal prostatitis. Occasionally applications of nitrate of silver to the prostatic urethra relieve the congestion and lessen the irritation and tenderness. The applications are made by the Ultzmann syringe (Fig. 863), 1 to 10 drops of a solution of nitrate of silver, 10 grains to the ounce, being injected into the prostatic urethra, and the patient being directed to pass water immediately or after the lapse of two or three min- utes, according to the amount of stimulation deemed neces- sary. The injection should alternate with the use of the sound once or twice a week in order to produce the best effect. G-onorrhoeal Prostatitis.—When gonorrhoea penetrates to the deep urethra it involves the prostate, and may leave a chronic gleety or muco purulent discharge which is exceedingly difficult to cure. There will be shreds in the first part of the urine passed, and gonococci may be found in them. In this form of gonorrhoeal prostatitis the sexual irritability is lessened instead of increased, but the pain and tender- ness may be greater than in the catarrhal form, and abscess occasionally results, the previous history and the purulent discharge distinguishing it from the catarrhal form. The treatment consists in deep injections, which may be given by the Ultzmann method, by passing a metal catheter with long slits at the sides near the tip, so that it shall be within the grasp of the sphincter, and then injecting a considerable quantity of warm sulpho- carbolate of zinc solution (alum, sulphate of zinc, carbolic acid, each, 1 part; distilled water, 200 to 500 parts), which passes backward into the bladder, and should be evacuated at once by the patient. Or a retrojection may be applied with an instrument the knob-like tip of which closes the urethra while the fluid is directed backward towards the meatus, thus washing out the discharge down the urethra. The regular passage of the sound should never be omitted in these cases, both for its immediate effect and to prevent the possible formation of a stricture. Tuberculosis.—Tuberculous infection of the prostate is probably more common and more easily recognized than that of any other part of the genito-urinary tract except the testicle. The lesions consist in the develop- ment of tuberculous nodules in the gland, which go on to caseation or to the development of abscesses, although in rare cases spontaneous recovery Ultzmann prostatic syringe.