TREATMENT OF FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. 891 have no severe symptoms for days, and may then suddenly die from acci- dental displacement of the bones. Usually, however, he will be found lying down, often in collapse, and a stretcher, a board, or a sheet should be slipped under him, his neck and head being moved as little as possible, so that he can be transported to his bed. These injuries may be treated by three methods. First, by the expec- tant plan, in which the patient is simply kept at rest on a water-bed, the head and body being properly supported by sand-bags or pillows on each side, or by a plaster jacket or spinal brace. In the second method some effort is made to reduce the displacement, which is most readily accom- plished when the injury is in the cervical region, because here the bones are small and easily accessible, and strong extension with rotation or flexion of the head is often successful. The reduction should be attempted only with the full understanding of the patient that it is dangerous, for the control over the bones is so slight that a fatal injury to the cord might be produced. These manipulations should be limited to forcible extension of the parts, since at- tempts at flexion are more likely to increase the injury. If simple extension is insufficient for reduction, the suspension apparatus employed in applying the plaster of Paris jacket for Pott's disease may be applied and the patient suspended. Finally, there is the operative method. The bones being ex- posed by an incision along the spine, as in laminectomy, the depressed bone may be removed or elevated, or a dislocation reduced by proper manipula- tion under the control of the finger and the eye. If the case be seen early enough and if the injury to the cord be not too extensive, good results can undoubtedly be obtained by operations of this nature. After reduction the head and body should be encased in a plaster of Paris jacket. In the after-treatment the principal attention must be given to the paraly- sis of the bladder and bowels and to the pressure sores. The regular use of the catheter must be begun, with every precaution against cystitis, which is almost certain to develop sooner or later. If cystitis occurs, irrigation of the bladder must be systematically carried out. It has been suggested by some to allow the bladder to fill up without the use of the catheter and to estab- lish "incontinence by overflow," so as to avoid infection from instruments, but with proper nursing this should not be necessary. The bowels should be evacuated by the use of softening enemata and laxatives, and properly regulated by the diet, food being given which will produce as little fecal matter as possible. Pressure sores are to be avoided as far as may be by changing the position of the patient, by the use of small pillows, by careful washing of the back, by hardening the skin with alcohol or an ichthyol solu- tion, and by painting the doubtful-looking spots with iodoform collodion. Even with the greatest care pressure sores are prone to develop after several weeks or months' confinement in bed. Gunshot fractures of the spine are mainly of importance on account of the great danger of injury to the cord by the missile or by the flying frag- ments of bone. The injury to the bony column is usually less than in other fractures, and the treatment is carried out on general principles.