381 LIGATION OF THE FACIAL ARTERY. space between the hyoid bone and the base of the jaw. The position of the great horn of the hyoid bone having been located, a curved incision, two inches in length, with its concavity directed upward, should be made from the anterior edge of the sternocleidomastoid muscle half an inch above the hyoid bone to a point one inch within the median line of the neck. (Fig. 283, j.) The skin and platysma being divided, and any superficial veins being displaced, the deep fascia shovdd next be opened upon a director. At this point the submaxillary gland will be exposed; this should be dis- placed upward with the handle of the knife or the finger, and after dividing the capsule of the gland there will be exposed the shining aponeurosis which holds the digastric tendon to the hyoid bone. The hypoglossal nerve will also be exposed a few lines above the eornu of the bone, running across the hyoglossus muscle forward and upward towards the middle of the jaw. The fibres of the hyoglossus muscle should then be divided for a short distance midway between the hypoglossal nerve and the hyoid bone, and the lingual artery will be exposed. The needle should be passed around the vessel from above downward, in order to avoid the nerve. Ligation of the Facial Artery.—The facial artery arises from the external carotid a short distance above the lingual artery, and in its course to the face passes under the inferior maxillary bone beneath the stylo-hyoid and digastric mus- cles and the submaxillary gland, and then passes from the neck to the face over the base of the inferior maxillary bone in front of the masseter muscle. The facial artery is most easily secured at a point where it crosses the lower jaw just in front of the masseter muscle, and is here exposed by an incision one inch in length over the inferior maxillary bone. (Fig. 285, d.) The skin, subcutaneous fascia, platysma, and deep fas- cia having been divided, the vessel will be exposed, and, after having separated it from the vein on its outer side, the needle should ' 6, occipital artery: e, external carotid ar- be passed between the vein and the artery tery; d, facial artery, and carried from without inward. Ligation of the Occipital Artery.—The occipital artery arises from the external carotid artery opposite the facial, and passes backward and upward under the posterior border of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles and under the lower portion of the parotid gland, in which position it is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve. The vessel also passes over the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein and pneumogastric and spinal ac- cessory nerves. The cervical portion of the occipital artery is seldom ligated except for wounds of that vessel. The occipital portion of the artery is the one usually ligated, and is exposed by a horizontal incision two inches in length, starting from a point half an inch below and in front of the apex of the mastoid process, and carried obliquely backward parallel to the border Fig. 285. Line of incision for—a, temporal artery ;