PELVIC CELLULITIS. 1182 may be absent, but there will usually be some oedema or boggy feeling of the upper vaginal wall. If left untreated these abscesses may burst into the vagina, rectum, or bladder, or externally along Poupart's ligament. If an abscess of considerable size has formed it is generally difficult, if not impos- Fig. 898. Relations of parametric exudate (a) to Relations of pyosalpinx (a) to the the uterus. (Byford.) uterus. (Byford.) sible, to determine whether it is in the cellular tissue or whether there is an intraperitoneal collection of pus around the tube. Treatment.—The treatment of abscesses in this situation is prompt evacuation as soon as the pus can be recognized, an exploratory puncture being made in doubtful cases by the aspirating needle introduced into the upper part of the vagina, one finger being placed in the rectum, if neces- sary, as a guide. If pus is reached the needle should be left in place as a guide, and a sharp-pointed pair of scissors thrust through the vaginal mucous membrane to the cavity. A dressing forceps will easily follow this instrument, and the opening should be dilated by spreading the branches. A drainage-tube is introduced and secured in place by a stitch through the vaginal mucous membrane, and should be kept in place until the discharge ceases. TUMOKS OP THE VAGINA AND VULVA. The clitoris is liable to hypertrophy, but tumors of the organ are rare. Many varieties of neoplasm have been observed, the most common being fibroma, angioma, and epithelioma. They are treated by extirpation, for complete removal of the organ does not disturb the sexual functions. Clitoridectomy was once advised as a cure for masturbation, but has been found useless. The separation of adhesions about the organ may, however, allay sexual irritation. Fibrous and fatty tumors and angiomata, cysts and papillomata, form the great majority of the benign tumors of the vulva and vagina. Angioma is usually external, and occurs in infants. Fatty tumors develop in the labia, being formed of a soft, almost myxomatous, tissue, and sometimes attain an enormous size, being more or less pedunculated. (Fig. 900.) Sebaceous cysts are found on the outer surface of the labia. Retention cysts develop in Bartholin's glands, and also in the mucous glands (Fig. 901) in the vulva and vagina. The latter seldom attain a size large enough to be of clinical importance. Cysts of the vulvo vaginal glands are