DERMOID CYSTS OF THE SCALP. 689 and an annoyance to the patient, they are of little clinical significance, un- less they become inflamed, when they suppurate and form persistent sinuses, in which malignant tumors may develop. The inflammation, however, may be so acute as to destroy the lining membrane of the sac entirely and thus bring about a permanent cure. The sebaceous cysts present tense, fluctu- ating swellings covered with unaltered skin ; but when inflamed, the skin becomes adherent and reddened, the surrounding parts become oedeniatous, and the tumor is more or less fixed. Theoretically, the cyst should always be adherent to the skin at the situation of the gland from which it originated by retention of secretion, and occasionally this point can be found and seba- ceous material squeezed out, but inore frequently the skin is entirely non- adherent. Even without inflammation, when the tumor has been in exist- ence for a long time the skin is apt to be adherent, particularly if the wen is situated where it is exposed to pressure. In some instances the contents and even the wall of the cyst become calcified. Fig. 633. Sebaceous cysts of the scalp. (Case of Dr. F. H. Markoe.) Treatment.—The only possible treatment of these tumors is removal, with entire extirpation of the sac, as described in the chapter on Tumors. Dermoid Cysts.—Dermoid cysts are also found on the head, and must not be confounded with the ordinary sebaceous cyst. They can usually be distinguished by their situation, being most common in the region of the fon- tanelles, and also by the existence of a depression in the bone beneath them, due to their pressure during the development of the bone. Dermoid cysts, however, do not occur so frequently upon the scalp as upon the face. A meningocele is distinguished from a dermoid cyst by its reducibility, by its occasional pulsation, and especially by its usual situation at the root of the nose or on the occiput. Dermoid cysts are differentiated from wens by their peculiar situations, the depression in the bone beneath them, their lack of attachment to the skin, and their liability to be adherent to the skull. It is said that dermoid cysts are sometimes capable of being moulded under the 44