DISEASES OF MUSCLES. 412 Fig. 310. tissue ; in this form of degeneration the muscular tissue is converted into a fatty granular mass ; granular, ivaxy, and calcareous degenerations of muscles are also occasionally observed. The treatment of fatty degeneration of mus- cles consists in the use of passive motion, massage, and the faradic current to improve their nutrition. Ossification of Muscles.—Ossification of a portion of the belly of a muscle, or more frequently of its point of insertion into a bone, is occasion- ally observed as the result of long-continued irritation. The development of bone plates in the adductor muscle of the thigh, known as rider'1 s bone, is not infrequent in those who ride on horseback constantly. We have ob- served a case in the brachialis anticus of a young man consequent upon repeated blows of the fist. Myositis ossificans is a rare affection, in which there is a wide-spread ossification of the muscles following a general muscular inflammation. The cause of this affection is unknown. Its course is slow, and is unaffected by treatment; death usually results from exhaustion or involvement of the respiratory muscles. Atrophy" of Muscles.—Atrophy of muscular tissue may arise from disuse, from nerve injury, from disease of the joints or of the spine, or from contusion, as is often seen after contusions of the shoulder. (Fig. 310.) Muscular atrophy is a prominent symptom in progressive mus- cular atrophy and infantile paralysis. Muscular atrophy may also be associated with fatty degen- eration of the muscles. Hypertrophy of Muscles.—A muscle may increase in size from actual increase in the number and size of the muscular fibres through unusual action of the muscle, or from increase in the connective tissue, lymphatics, or blood- vessels of the muscle. Contracture of Muscles.—This affection, which consists in a permanent shortening of a muscle—that is, the approximation of its point of origin and its point of insertion—may result from many causes, such as inflammation, loss of substance, diseases of contiguous joints, paralysis of opposing muscles, cicatricial contraction, diseases of the central nervous system, hysteria, and chorea. Eicord has described a form of contracture in muscles, particularly in the biceps, which results from syphilis. The treatment of contracture of muscles is considered in the article upon Orthopaedic Surgery. Tumors of Muscle.—Muscular tissue may be the seat of carcinoma- tous, sarcomatous, syphilitic, fibrous, cystic, vascular, cartilaginous, or osseous growths. The treatment of these affections depends largely upon their nature; non-malignant growths can often be removed by dissection; malignant growths involving muscles of the extremities call for excision of the growth, or in many cases for amputation of the limb. Atrophy of the muscles of the left shoulder following contusion.