ENDOTHELIOMA. 106 of this lymphatic tissue proves nothing against the branchial origin of the cyst. Treatment.—These cysts have been treated successfully by aspiration and the injection of iodine, but failures are common with this method. Extirpation, on the other hand, is generally very difficult, because these tumors originate in the neighborhood of the great vessels and nerves, and a preliminary attempt to cure the cyst by injection creates adhesions and adds to the difficulties. The ordinary lymphangiomata may be treated on the same lines as the tumors of the blood-vessels, but free excision is the best method of dealing with them. ENDOTHELIOMA. An endothelioma is a tumor composed of endothelial cells in a stroma of connective tissue. Iu pathological structure and in clinical significance it stands midway between the connective-tissue group aud the epithelial tumors. Structure.—The tumors originate in the endothelial cells which line the blood-vessels, the lymphatic vessels, and the lymphatic spaces in the connec- tive tissue, and which cover the serous and synovial membranes, so that they are very widely distributed and of varying structure according to the tissue from which they have sprung. Formed from the endothelium, they belong to the group of connective-tissue tumors, but the rapidly proliferating cells of which they are composed bear so close a resemblance to the cells of epi- thelial growths that the diagnosis is exceedingly difficult, and in some cases impossible. The tumor called cylindroma was supposed to be the product of epithelial cells growing in convoluted tubes, but is undoubtedly an endo- thelioma, the tubes representing the vessels in which the cells have grown. The characteristic cells in these tumors are large, with a large nucleus, irreg- ular in shape, flattened, or almost cylindrical, or globular. They are con- tained in a stroma of connective tissue, which may be scanty or may form spaces containing the cells. These spaces often form convoluted tubes, in which one may trace the winding of the vessels as in an angioma, and in other cases they form cavities closely resembling the acini of an acinous gland. The boundary-line between angiosarcoma and endothelioma is dif- ficult to define, and it is probable that the latter often changes to sarcoma. Varieties.—The important varieties of endothelioma are those of the skin, the serous membranes, the breast, and the ovary. Endothelioma of the skin has the tubular structure which has already been mentioned, and forms small, flat nodules in the corium or limited to the papillary layer, with little tendency to ulceration. The tumors are generally small and multiple. Endothelioma growing from the serous membranes may show itself merely as a flat mass formed by hypertrophy of the endothelial layer, or many layers of these cells may form a thick wart-like protuberance upon the surface of the serous membrane. In other cases tumors of the cylindroma variety are found, making hard nodules which may attain a considerable size, although they are seldom more than half an inch in diam- eter. Such tumors occur in the peritoneal cavity and in the arachnoid.