443 FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. shoulder is lower and farther forward than its fellow (Fig. 343) ; crepitus can generally be obtained by grasping the injured arm and carrying it up- ward, outward, and backward while the fingers are placed over the seat of the fracture. Disability may be very slight in incomplete fractures. Deformity.—In oblique fractures Fig. 343. iu the middle third of the clavicle the sternal fragment will be drawn upward by the clavicular fibres of the steruo- Fig. 344. Deformity in recent fracture of the right clavicle. Displacement of fragments in fracture of the clavicle. (Agnew.) cleido-mastoid muscle; the acromial fragment is carried downward by the weight of the shoulder and the action of the serratus magnus, the latissimus dorsi, and the pectoralis major and minor muscles, so that the fragment falls below the level of the sternal fragment: the overlapping is produced by the acromial fragment being drawn inward and forward by the action of the pectoralis major muscle. (Fig. 344.) Fracture of the outer third of the clavicle is not usually accompanied by much displacement or deformity if it takes place within the limits of the coraco-clavicular ligament, as the attachment of the latter with the periosteum serves to resist displacement of the fragments. In fracture of the inner third of the clavicle, if situated within the limits of the costo-clavicular ligament, there is very little displacement. Complications.—The most serious complications arising from fracture of the clavicle are injuries of the brachial plexus and the subclavian vessels ; the brachial plexus may be injured at the time of the accident by a dis- placed fragment, or may be involved in the callus during the repair of the fracture, causing paralysis of the arm. A displaced fragment of the clavicle has also produced injury of the internal jugular vein and the subclavian artery or vein. Prognosis.—Fractures of the clavicle unite promptly, and examples of non-union in this fracture are extremely rare. Eepair of this injury without deformity is also a very rare occurrence ; there is usually some shortening with more or less angular deformity following cases of oblique