ANTERIOR TIBIAL CURVATURES. 668 Fig. 605. until it touches the bone, when the knife is withdrawn and the osteotome is turned at a right angle to the bone; the bone is then divided by a few strokes of the mallet, the osteotome is withdrawn, and the wound is cov- ered with a compress of antiseptic gauze. An incision is next made over the anterior portion of the tibia at the point of greatest curvature, and an osteotome is introduced and turned so that its cutting edge shall be at a right angle to the long axis of the bone, when the tibia is gradually divided by driving the osteotome through the bone by strokes of the mallet. The osteotome may be removed before the posterior shell of the bone is divided, and the separation of the bone completed by manual force. In cases where the deformity is largely confined to the tibia and fibula, division of these bones as described above will be sufficient to correct the deformity ; but if the femur is involved in the deformity, osteotomy of this bone may also be required, and should be performed in the same manner. The dressing of the case after osteotomy consists in closing the small incisions by a few catgut or silk sutures and applying over them a scab of gauze and iodoform collodion or a small compress of iodoform gauze and cotton. A flannel bandage is next applied to the limb from the toes to the groin, and while the limb is held in a position of slight over-correction a plaster of Paris bandage is applied from the toes to the groin, and the limb is held in this position until the bandage has set. This bandage is usually allowed to remain for a month, when it is removed, and a new and lighter one is applied, to be worn for three or four weeks longer ; after eight weeks the patient may use the limbs in locomotion without any risk of recurrence of the deformity. (Fig. 605.) If care has been taken as regards asepsis, and no large vessels have been injured in the opera- tion, the patients do well. Occasionally on the second or third day after the operation it will be noticed that the toes are discolored and swollen, in which case the bandages should be removed and the wound inspected, and if no wound-com- plication is present a new bandage should be applied. If suppuration has occurred in the wound, drainage should be introduced and a new bandage applied, with a fenestra over the wound to permit of its dressing. We have seen serious complications occur after osteotomy for bow-legs in two cases only—secondary hemorrhage from the anterior tibial artery, and osteomyelitis of the tibia—both of which terminated favorably. Result of osteotomy for bow-leg in case shown in Fig. 603. ANTERIOR TIBIAL CURVATURES. In these cases, which occur in subjects of rickets, the most marked ante- rior curvature is in the lower third of the bone, and this deformity is very