PATHOLOGY OF HERNIA. 980 trochanter. Occasionally the intervals between the muscular fibres of the levator ani give passage to protrusions which pass downward and present in the perineum, traversing the ischio-rectal space. In the male these are easily recognized, as they form a protrusion between the middle line of the perineum and the thigh, but in the female they may pass into the poste- rior or the anterior part of the labia, where they may simulate cysts. Such herniae may also form protrusions into the vagina or even into the rectum. They are very rare and seldom strangulated. Diaphragmatic Hernia.—Hernial protrusions occur through the dia- phragm, entering the chest. They may be of traumatic origin and due to rupture of the diaphragm, and are then usually fatal. They may also be due to congenital deficiencies in the muscle, or they may pass through the natural openings in the diaphragm. In some cases the stomach and a large part of the small intestine has been found in the thorax and yet the patients have shown no symptoms of the displacement. The possible existence of such obscure herniae should be considered in cases of intestinal obstruction. Pathology.—The contents of a hernia are almost invariably omentum or intestine, although almost any of the abdominal organs may be found in unusual cases. The urinary bladder, stomach, ovaries, and uterus are occa- sionally met with, and even the spleen and the kidney when in the floating condition. A hernia containing omentum is known as an epiplocele, and one containing intestine as an enterocele, combinations of the two being called entero-epiplocele. The omentum may form a bag around the bowel, or may be displaced to one side of the sac. Omentum which has been long in a hernial sac undergoes hypertrophy of its distal part, owing to the venous congestion, and forms a mass like a lipoma, while the neck of the protrusion is apt to be reduced to a fibrous cord by the compression. The omentum may atrophy, openings appearing in it through which a knuckle of gut may become strangulated. In other cases calcification or cystic degenera- tion takes place, but the cysts which are most frequently seen in hernial sacs are due to chronic peritoneal inflammation, like those which form in the peritoneal cavity. Omentum is almost always adherent to the sac, at least at the neck, and an epiplocele is generally irreducible. The intestine is much less likely to be adherent, and is usually very little altered by its sojourn in the hernia, but in some cases its walls are thickened, even to such an extent as to reduce its calibre. In some cases, instead of the protrusion of a loop of bowel, only a part of the circumference of the gut is protruded, being drawn out into a sort of pouch constricted at its base, a condition commonly known as Littre's hernia, although some contend that this name should be limited to a hernia of a diverticulum, and that this lateral hernia of the bowel should be called Richter's hernia. The lateral hernia may be due to the adhesion of the bowel-wall to the peritoneum which forms the sac, or to the omentum or other contents of the hernia being drawn down into the sac by their agency. This variety of hernia is not common, but it is very liable to strangulation, and the latter is difficult to recognize because the entire lumen of the bowel is not involved in the constricting ring, hence intestinal obstruction may be absent or incomplete. Littre's hernia is seldom found except at the femoral ring.