353 TREATMENT OF TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. tected. The pulse in the artery beyond the seat of swelling may be feeble or entirely lost, depending upon the nature of the wound in the artery and the amount of pressure produced by the effused and clotted blood. In diffused traumatic aneurism of the extremities the parts beyond the swelling become (Edematous and discolored from the venous obstruction caused by the effused blood. Pain at the seat of the aneurism and numbness in the limb are also marked symptoms. If the condition is not promptly treated, moist gan- grene is very apt to occur. In circumscribed traumatic aneurism there is a distinct pulsating tumor; pressure-symptoms are not always present, and the symptoms are those of a sacculated aneurism. Diagnosis.—In cases of traumatic aneurism the diagnosis is generally not difficult unless suppuration in the tissues around the effused blood oc- curs, giving rise to the formation of abscess. The diagnosis can usually be easily made if the history of an injury is elicited which was followed by rapid swelling and oedema and numbness and change in the pulse in the vessels of the parts below ; but every case should be carefully examined to determine the presence in the swelling of pulsation, bruit, and thrill. Treatment.—A circumscribed traumatic aneurism, if the swelling does not tend to increase in size, may be cured by elevation and rest of the part, with moderate pressure at the seat of swelling by a compress and bandage. If, however, this fails to produce a cure, compression of the artery upon the proximal side close to the sac may be employed; and if this is unsuccess- ful, a proximal ligature should be applied to the artery, or excision of the tumor, with ligation of the vessel above and below the aneurism, must be resorted to. In diffused traumatic aneurism of the extremities, where the circulation can be readily controlled by a tourniquet, as soon as the nature of the arte- rial lesion is apparent prompt treatment should be instituted, for delay is apt to result in gangrene. The circulation having been controlled by a tourniquet or an elastic strap, the swelling should be freely incised, blood- clots turned out, and the injured vessel sought for. When this is found, if it is completely divided, both ends should be secured by ligatures, or, if incompletely divided, the division should be completed and the ends of the vessel ligatured. The cavity should be cleared of blood-clots, a drainage- tube introduced, and the wound closed. Care must be taken not to injure the vein in exposing and ligating the artery. If the aneurism arises from an artery in which it is impossible to control the circulation during the operation by pressure or by a tourniquet, such as the common carotid or the iliac, the successful exposure and ligation of the injured vessel is one of the most difficult and anxious operations in sur- gery. In such cases free incision of the swelling is accompanied by such profuse bleeding that it is apt to be fatal. It is therefore better to make a small incision into the swelling and introduce a finger and feel for the wound in the artery; the warm current of blood may guide the surgeon to the position of the wound. When this is found, bleeding is controlled by press- ure with the finger while the external wound is enlarged, and after turning out the coagula the artery is grasped with haemostatic forceps and ligated, or a ligature is passed around the vessel with an aneurismal needle and 23