345 TREATMENT OF VARICOSE VEINS. unless checked may cause a fatal result. In the treatment of bleeding from this source, elevation of the part will often arrest the hemorrhage, or per- manent control of the bleeding can be secured by elevating the part, and, after sterilizing the small wound and the surrounding skin with bichloride solution, placing over the wound a compress of iodoform gauze or sterilized gauze, which is to be held firmly in place by a bandage, including the limb from the toes to a point some distance above the wound. This should be allowed to remain in place for a week or more, and when removed the wound will usually be found solidly healed. Thrombosis is not an infrequent complication in varicose veins, and results from the changes in the inner coats of the veins and the slowing of the blood-current, or from contusion or laceration of the enlarged veins. The treatment of this condition has been described under Phlebitis. (Edema of the parts surrounding the varicose veins may be marked, and present the characteristics of a solid induration ; upon this indurated tissue there frequently develops a chronic and obstinate eczema. Ulceration of the indurated tissues surrounding varicose veins may result from a slight wound, or from rupture of a thinned portion of a vein, and if healing is not promptly obtained the ulceration may extend and give rise to frequent bleeding, which eventually may cause a condition of chronic anaemia, or even death. Ulcers occurring in connection with varicose veins are often spoken of as varicose ulcers, but the relation of the ulcer to the varicose veins seems rather to be accidental than causal; the diminished nutrition of the indurated tissues caused by the varicose veins predisposes to ulceration after slight traumatism, and also renders the reparative process slow; bleeding arises only when a vein is opened by a wound or by the ulcerative process. Treatment.—The treatment of varicose veins is both local and con- stitutional, and consists in removing as far as possible the local causes, as well as the constitutional conditions which predispose to or keep up the condition. Palliative Treatment. —This aims at the removal of the causes which produce venous obstruction, and in the majority of cases is followed by so much improvement that operative procedures are not required. It con- sists in the removal of constricting clothing, causing obstruction of the veins, change of occupation, rest in the recumbent posture, and out-door exercise ; the condition of the general health, and of the bowels and liver, should also receive attention. If the circulation is at fault, the admin- istration of digitalis and strychnine will often be followed by marked im- provement. The use of fluid extract of hamamelis in from fifteen- to twenty-minim doses seems to exert a beneficial effect in varicose veins. The local treatment consists in the use of an elastic bandage applied evenly to the part, or a neatly fitting silk elastic stocking, which should be made from careful measurements. These elastic appliances support the part and prevent further dilatation of the veins, besides tending to prevent stagna- tion of the blood in the veins and diverting it from the superficial veins into the deep veins. In using either the elastic bandage or the elastic stocking, it should be so applied that it will make pressure upon the