REPAIR OF TENDONS AND MUSCLE. 73 sion of these granulating surfaces can often be obtained, and septic wounds or abscess-cavities can be closed by taking advantage of this fact and bring- ing the granulating surfaces together by deep sutures when all trace of sepsis has been removed by the open-wound treatment. Healing of a wound by granulation : a, layer of fibrin, leucocytes, and detritus over surface of granula- tions ; 6, advancing edge of epidermal cells from skin ; c, skin at edge of wound ; d, corium with some in- flammatory infiltration ; e, blood-vessel in normal tissue differing in its structure from those in the granula- tion-tissue ; /, blood-vessel in latter with a leucocyte emigrating through its walls ; g, new connective-tissue cells called fibroblasts ; h points to an epithelial cell, and on either side of h are two cells in process of division, showing their rapid growth. (F. C. Wood, M.D.) Defects of the superficial epithelial surfaces are made up by growth of the cells, and in the glandular organs also there is a growth of the epithelial cells with partial reproduction of the gland-tissue destroyed, as has been observed in the liver and testicle ; but this reproduction is seldom complete. Repair of Tendons.—Repair of tendons is accomplished by the growth of connective tissue from the sides of the tendon-sheaths, the tissue of the tendon itself taking very little part in the process. If there is no extrava- sation of blood into the sheath, the latter collapses where it is left empty by the retraction of the divided ends of the tendon, becomes adherent to the latter, and then forms a band connecting the two ends and permitting of restoration of function, while the collapsed sheath is thickened by connec- tive-tissue growth. More commonly there is an effusion of blood in the sheath, and the clot fills the space between the ends of the tendon, being finally replaced by the production of granulation-tissue, which starts from the inner surface of the sheath and becomes converted into connective tissue. Repair of Muscle.—Non-striated muscular cells have considerable re- parative powers, but it is only recently that the power of reproduction of Fig. 34. c