DIAGNOSIS OF HERNIA. 984 beginning peritonitis, such as tympanites and abdominal tenderness. The urine is diminished in quantity, and it is claimed that it contains albumin if bowel is included in the hernia. The symptoms are more acute in strangu- lation of bowel than in that of omentum, and a true epiplocele is seldom strangulated, a small concealed loop of bowel being generally found in cases supposed to contain omentum only. When gangrene of the strangulated loop has taken place, the pain ceases and collapse sets in, the apparent relief being so marked that the patient and his friends often imagine that the con- dition has been relieved. Acute inflammation of the sac may be caused by perforation of the bowel. Acute inflammation is sometimes seen without strangulation, as the result of perforation of the bowel due to injury or ulceration. When in- flammation occurs the hernial tumor is greatly swollen, the tissues become infiltrated, the skin red, and an abscess may develop in the counective tissue. In very rare cases recovery has taken place by the spontaneous discharge of the abscess and the formation of a fecal fistula at the opening. The inflammation may extend backward into the peritoneal cavity, setting- up a general peritonitis. If strangulation occurs and is not promptly relieved, death is almost inevitable, and takes place in from two to ten days. In neglected cases pneumouia may set in from the aspiration of vomited fecal matter into the lungs, inflammation may develop in the sac, or death may take place merely from shock or from the exhaustion of vomiting and intestinal obstruction. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of hernia may be simple or very difficult. The principal conditions with which it is apt to be confounded are the various forms of tumor, especially enlarged lymphatic glands, tumors of the testicle or cord, lipoma situated over the femoral or inguinal rings, hydro- cele of the tunica vaginalis or of the cord, cysts of Cowper's glands or of the vulvo-vaginal glands, and hydrocele of an old hernial sac. The tumors which are liable to be mistaken for hernia are not reducible, have no impulse on coughing, are firm to the touch, and feel heavy when lifted in the hand ; fluctuation is not usually detected, and there is no reso- nance on percussion. Tumors may be painful, and pressure may cause some increase of pain. Even if there should be a prolongation running up towards the groin the upper limit can generally be reached, and usually the tumor is more or less ovoid or globular. The patient will often relate that the swelling was first noticed in the lower part of the scrotum. Hydrocele.—Hydrocele and cystic tumors may or may not be reducible according as the opening through the funicular process has remained open or not, but they are generally irreducible. If the hydrocele is reducible a distinct impulse on coughing may be present, and an imitation of this sensation is sometimes produced in an irreducible hydrocele when a pro- longation of its sac extends well up into the inguinal canal, where it can be grasped by the abdominal muscles. Weighed in the hand, the hydrocele or cystic tumor feels of medium weight, but considerably heavier than a her- nia. It is elastic to the touch, fluctuation is distinct, and there is absolute flatness on percussion. If reduction can be made, it is difficult to keep the sac empty by pressure upon the ring, for the fluid slips through under the