91 FIBROMA OF NERVES. Fig Central fibroma of nerve-trunk. (Agnevv. Fig. 51. instance there is a spontaneous disappearance of a tumor. In many cases, however, these tumors are permanent and may attain a large size. The so-called fibromata of the uterus are composed rather of unstriped muscular fibres than of fibrous tissue, and will be considered under the head of myoma. The majority of fibromata of the mamma are really fibro-adenomata, and will be described with that organ. Fibroma of the sheaths of the nerves is rare, but is found in two varieties. In the first a single tumor forms in the sheath of the nerve, involving the entire trunk or growing upon one side of it. Sometimes the nerve- fibres are spread over the outside of the tumor (Fig. 50), and by splitting the sheath of the nerve the tumor can be enucleated from the centre of the fibres without injury. In other cases the two are so intimately connected that it is impossible to separate them, and a part of the nerve must be removed with the tumor. The fibromata of nerves are rather small, and usually not of much clinical impor- tance, unless they excite pain by their pressure on the nerve. Sometimes they appear as small nodules in the skin, and their connection with the nerve can be deter- mined only by the pain on pressure, or by the anatomical proof that the nerve enters them. They may be multiple, and have been considered by some as tumors of the skin only, and called " paiufid subcutaneous tubercles." The second variety of fibroma of nerves is the curious and rather rare condition known as congenital elephantiasis of the nerves, or plexiform neuroma. (Fig. 51.) In this dis- ease the main trunk of the nerve is very much enlarged by an hypertrophy of the subdivisions of the fibrous sheath (the endoneurium), while the perineurium remains intact and prevents the growth from extending to other structures. The true nerve-fibres do not undergo any enlarge- ment or increase in their numbers (although the early observers claimed that this was the case), and the growth is entirely in the fibrous struc- tures, so that it does not interfere in any way with the transmission of impulses through the nerve or with its function. The thickening and enlargement extend downward along the nerve even to its filaments in the skin. The nerves are lengthened as well as thickened, so that they form long serpent-like cords in their course in- stead of running straight, and in some places they form tumors of consider- able size. The involvement of the terminal filaments in the skin gives the Plexiform fibroma of nerves. (Agnew.)