25 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. only tend to neutralize the irritant, but encapsulate it in a single spot, and tend to close all avenues of entrance to the rest of the system by blocking the lymphatic channels with cells (endothelial proliferation, lymphocytes) and thickening the walls of the absorbent vessels. Among the character- istic changes in the cells in chronic inflammation is the appearance of the giant-cells. The origin and function of these bodies, consisting of a large, irregular mass of protoplasm with several distinct nuclei, is as yet un- certain. Certain it is, however, that they are found in the neighborhood of foreign material which the tissues are trying to eliminate or encapsule. Some hold that they consist of numerous small cells which have lost their vitality and become fused together, deducing their origin from the wan- dering lymphocytes which have been attracted by chemotaxis to the foreign body and are dying. Metchnikoff claims to have seen such giant-cells about the foreign bodies occasionally observed in the lower infusorial ani- mals, which are formed only of an external and an internal layer of cells (ectoderm and entoderm), with an intermediate mass of protoplasm contain- ing amoeboid cells corresponding to our lymphocytes, but without blood- vessels of any kind. He supposes that they have formed from these amoe- boid cells, and advances the theory that, as the foreign body was too large for one of them to take it up into itself, the cells became fused in order to furnish enough protoplasm to surround the foreign body, but the nuclei remained distinct. He denies that the giant-cell represents lowered vitality, and assumes that it is an instance of active fusion of the cells for the better performance of their function of phagocytosis. In certain sarcomatous tumors giant-cells are common, and appear to possess the power of absorb- ing or causing the absorption of bone with which they are brought in con- tact, and this may be considered a clue to their functions. The local and general symptoms of chronic inflammation depend so en- tirely upon its situation that they can hardly be described here. We merely mention the fact that in long-continued suppuration of the bones or other parts an amyloid or waxy degeneration is apt to take place in the liver, kidney, and spleen, probably due to the circulation of bacterial toxines in the blood. While generally fatal, instances of recovery from this condition have been observed in children. It is recognized by enlargement of the affected organs, and by albuminuria when the kidney is involved. Treatment.—The general indications to be observed in the treatment of inflammation are, to combat the active and passive congestion of the parts, to relieve tension, to give free issue to the products of inflammation, to pro- mote the early separation of sloughs, and to assist elimination of toxines by the skin, bowels, and kidneys. No specific has yet been discovered to act directly against the bacteria which cause cellulitis and allied inflammatory processes, unless the claims of the new serum therapy be established. The most that the surgeon can do at present is to assist the tissues in their attempt to neutralize and limit the action of the invading germs. Elevation.—The active congestion can be relieved in the first place by placing the inflamed part on a higher level than the rest of the body and by securing as complete immobilization as possible. The patient should be con- fined to bed, or, if this is not possible and the arm is affected, it should be