FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR. 484 tures of the shaft may be employed with satisfactory results, but occasionally cases are met with in which the upward and inward tilting of the upper fragment is so marked that a different kind of dressing has to be resorted to. In such cases, where it is impossible to bring the upper fragment in contact with the lower one, the surgeon may find it advisa- ble to apply a dressing which will bring the lower fragment in the line of the upper fragment. This may be accomplished by using the anterior wire splint of Professor N. E. Smith (Fig. 406), or by placing the leg and thigh upon a double inclined plane and ap- plying an extension apparatus to the thigh from the knee to a point a little below the seat of fracture, ex- tension being made by a weight and pulley, as shown in Fig. 407, and lateral support supplied either by the use of short moulded splints or by movable sides attached to the double inclined splint. Fractures of the Shaft of the Femur- Fractures of the shaft of the femur are common in- juries, and are most frequent before ten years of age. The line of fracture may be transverse or oblique. Transverse fractures of the femur are most common in children, oblique fractures in adults. Causes.—These fractures may occur from direct violence, as the result of the passage of heavy bodies over the thigh, or may result from indirect violence, from force transmitted through the foot and leg. Muscular action may also produce fracture of the shaft of the femur. Symptoms.—The symptoms of fracture of the shaft of the femur are pain, increased by movements or by muscular contraction ; mobility, which may be demonstrated by raising the leg or thigh, and by adduction or abduction; and deformity, which con- sists in shortening, with a prominence upon the anterior portion of the thigh Fig. 406. Smith's anterior wire splint. (Fig. 408), or may consist of marked angular displacement of the fragments and eversiou of the foot. The shortening may not be marked in transverse Fig. 405. Displacement in fracture of the upper third of the femur. (Agnew.)