653 ARTHRECTOMY. Fig. 584. Excision of the lower jaw. (Agnew.) packed into the cavity left by removal of the bone, a gauze dressing applied over the line of incision, and held in position by an oblique bandage of the jaw. Partial Excision of the Lower Jaw or of the Alveolus.—Eemoval of a portion of the alveolar process of the jaw, or of a portion of the body of the jaw, necessitated by necrosis of the bone, can often be accomplished without the aid of a cutaneous incision. The jaws should be separated with a mouth-gag, an incision made through the tissues cover- ing the bone, an elevator introduced, and the bone gradually loosened from the peri- osteum and removed with forceps. Removal of the Condyle of the Jaw. —This may be accomplished by making an incision close in front of the temporal artery and carrying it forward along the zygoma for an inch and a half; the tissue being divided and the bone exposed, a second in- cision, involving only the skin, is carried from the centre of the first incision directly downward for about an inch, the soft parts being carefully separated with a knife and an elevator from the margin of the zygoma and the outer surfaces of the joint, and drawn downward with a retractor to prevent injury of the parotid gland, nerves, and vessels. The neck of the condyle is then cleared by working around it in front and behind with a director, keeping close to the bone to avoid injury of the internal maxillary artery. A chain saw should then be passed around the neck of the bone, with which it is divided, and the condyle is seized with forceps and removed with an elevator or a gouge. ARTHRECTOMY, OR ERASION. This operation has recently been introduced as a substitute for excision or resection in the treatment of diseases of the joints, and has been fre- quently resorted to in the treatment of tuberculous arthritis. It consists in exposing the joint by an incision similar to that which would be em- ployed for excision of the joint, and after the joint surfaces are exposed the diseased synovial membranes, cartilages, and carious deposits in the articular surfaces of the bone are removed with forceps and scissors, or with a gouge or curette; no extensive removal of bone is practised. After all the dis- eased structures have been removed, the wound is irrigated and dusted with powdered iodoform, a drainage-tube introduced, and the wound closed, deep sutures being used to bring together the capsular ligament, and a line of superficial sutures employed to close the skin incision. This opei'ation seems especially applicable to the treatment of disease of the joints in young persons, as it involves no risk of injury of the epiphyseal cartilages. The results of arthrectomy have been fairly successful in tubercular disease, some cases recovering with movable joints ; in others more or less contrac- tion and fixation result from the operation. If recurrence of the disease takes place, an excision of the joint may be performed later.