878 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. ceasing to spread and disappearing as soon as the wound in the chest-wall is closed. Hydrothorax and Empyema.—These affections may exist as com- plications of penetrating wounds of the chest, and their presence may be diagnosed by the time of development of the symptoms of dulness upon per- cussion and the absence or feebleness of vocal and respiratory sounds over the seat of injury. The treatment of these conditions will be considered under Operations upon the Chest. The constitutional treatment of cases of penetrating wounds of the chest consists in the use of opium, the patient being kept absolutely at rest. If pneumonia or pleurisy develops it should be treated as if arising inde- pendently of traumatism. Gunshot Wounds of the Chest.—These injuries may be inflicted by balls, bullets, or small shot; if inflicted by the latter at close range, exten- sive laceration of the chest wall and viscera may result. Gunshot wounds of the chest may be penetrating or non-penetrating ; the former are always serious injuries, the records of military surgery showing a heavy mortality after them. Conner states that from one-half to one-third of those killed outright in action have been found to have died from gunshot wounds of the chest. Non-Penetrating Gunshot Wounds.—These injuries are not usually serious unless they occur in the axillary or the subclavicular region, in- volving injuries of the vessels, in which case they are very grave injuries and are often quickly fatal. Balls not infrequently strike a rib and are deflected, passing around the rib to the spine, and either escape through a wound of exit or remain embedded in the tissues. Treatment.—If in these injuries only a wound of entrance exists, and the ball cannot be easily located, it is unwise to make extensive explorations with a probe to locate the ball, or free incisions to remove it, as by so doing the wound may be converted into a penetrating one. It is better to dis- infect the wound and apply an antiseptic dressing, repair usually taking place promptly, and the ball, if it causes trouble, may be located and re- moved at a later period. If the missile has passed through the soft parts and escaped, the wound should be treated as a non-penetrating wound pro- duced by other causes. Penetrating Gunshot Wounds.—These wounds, as previously stated, are most serious injuries ; the missile may lodge in the viscera or may injure the heart or the great vessels. The latter injury is almost always fatal, but penetrating wounds involving the lung are not so serious, and a fair proportion of such cases recovers. The modern ball used in warfare is apt to perforate the chest and escape, and is not likely to lodge in the viscera. Penetrating pistol-ball wounds of the chest occurring in civil practice, unless the heart or the great vessels be involved, although grave injuries, are not often fatal, the majority of cases doing well under treatment. Treatment.—If the ball has penetrated the chest and escaped, or has penetrated the chest and remains embedded in the viscera, no information can be obtained by probing : hence this should be avoided, and attempts to locate the ball and remove it by operation should not be undertaken. If,