LIPOMA. 94 inguinal and femoral rings and in the omentum and mesentery. Fatty tumors also occur between the mamma and the chest. A curious form of lipoma—the so-called parosteal lipoma—is found on the bone under the peri- osteum, and is supposed to be always of congenital origin, for it is usual to find a depression in the bone due to its pressure. A few cases of this kind have been reported, some of them on the long bones and some on the bones of the skull under the pericranium; but the diagnosis of the former is not likely to be established before operation, and the latter are liable to be mistaken for dermoid cysts. Clinical Appearances.—A subcutaneous fatty tumor is usually well encapsulated and freely movable, although slightly adherent to the skin, growing slowly, but sometimes attaining a very large size. These tumors vary in density very greatly, according to the amount of fibrous tissue stroma and the state of tension of the capsule, and a deceptive wave, like the fluctuation of a cyst, may sometimes be obtained. When the tumor is pinched up between the fingers the skin over it dimples from the attach- ment between the two made by the fibrous bands of the stroma. If the lipoma lies under the superficial fascia, however, this pulling on the fibres of the skin does not take place. On the other hand, a lipoma may develop in the corium itself, in which case the epithelial part of the skin is stretched tightly over it and cannot be made to dimple, and the tumor closely resem- bles a sebaceous cyst, the resemblance being increased if the contents be soft and the capsule tolerably tense, so that a feeling of fluctuation can be ob- tained. While lipomata are, as a rule, rather flat tumors, or, at the most, globular, they may become pedunculated, and this, in our experience, is most common in tumors situated in some of the flexor parts of the body, such as the axilla, the folds of the groin or the buttocks, and the popliteal space. It seems probable that the tumor is forced out through the super- ficial fascia and made to distend the movable skin in these localities by the pressure of the parts in flexion. These pedunculated lipomata sometimes attain a large size and have a very long pedicle. Pedunculated lipomata are very liable to twisting of the pedicle or to some injury which forms a hematoma, and may result in sloughing. Multiple subcutaneous lipomata are sometimes found scattered all over the body in great numbers, and some constitutional nervous disease is so often associated with their appearance that they are supposed to be due to some unknown trophic influence. History.—Lipoma grows very slowly, and often remains stationary for years. Cysts containing oil are found in these tumors in rare cases, and calcification or myxomatous degeneration of the stroma is occasionally seen. They are liable to inflammation, like ordinary fat, and they frequently be- come infected with tuberculosis when in the neighborhood of tuberculous joints, like the fatty tissue which lies just outside the capsule. The only effects produced by these tumors are those due to their bulk or the deformity they occasion. Treatment.—If operation is considered desirable, the tumor should be re- moved, together with the capsule. In some cases a pedicle can be traced from the superficial tumor down through the deep fascia to another mass between the muscles. In one case a deep-seated thoracic lipoma had a pedicle which