116 PAPILLOMA. braue upon which they rest, the tumor is analogous to carcinoma in its active growth and its tendency to recurrence and even to metastasis. In the kidney and liver the adenomata form well encapsulated tumors, seldom attaining a large size. In many of these epithelial tumors it is impossible to draw a sharp line between the benign and the malignant. Adenoma of the thyroid gland (which is described in the section upon the thyroid) not infrequently causes metastases in spite of its innocent structure, the secondary tumors being formed most commonly in the bones and having the histological appearance of the normal thyroid. The ovarian adenoma also sometimes resembles a malignant tumor, for its proliferating or papilloma- tous form is capable of infecting other parts of the peritoneal surfaces and causing the growth of similar tumors there. Adenoma is very liable to cystic changes, as is natural in a glandular structure without excretory ducts to carry off its secretions and degenerating epithelium. The sebaceous cysts are reckoned by some pathologists among the adenomata. Hemorrhages frequently occur in these tumors, and myxo- matous degeneration of the stroma may be found. A change to carcinoma easily takes place and is not uncommon. Clinical Appearance.—The tumors vary so much that we refer to the descriptions in the accounts of various organs in which adenoma occurs. Treatment.—The treatment of adenoma is removal by operation, on account of its great liability to malignant degeneration. PAPILLOMA. Structure.—While adenoma is a benign epithelial tumor in which the epithelial cells are enclosed in a fibrous stroma, papilloma is a similar growth in which the stroma forms an inside skeleton, covered by the epithelial cells like the ordinary papillae. The papillae grow in various shapes, sometimes Fig. 80. Papilloma of glans penis, low power. (F. C. W ood, M.D.) rather broad and flat, sometimes in large masses with a narrow pedicle like a cauliflower (Fig. 80), sometimes with long fimbriated extremities growing from a common broad base, the last-named form being called dendritic, from its resemblance to a tree. Every papilla in the growth contains a loop of a