147 MOIST GANGRENE. Treatment.—When dry gangrene is actually developed, the part should be disinfected thoroughly and wrapped in dry bichloride, iodoform, or car- bolized gauze, or in salicylated or bichloride cotton. Dry dressings such as these permit evaporation of moisture from the tissues and facilitate the drying of the parts. Wet dressings and ointments should not be employed, as they soften the tissues and favor decomposition. The constitutional con- dition of the patient also requires attention. He should be given a gen- erous diet, with tonics, and care should be taken that a sufficient amount of sleep is obtained. Pain is often a prominent symptom, and should be relieved by the free use of opium; the deodorized tincture of opium is the preparation which we have employed with good results. In some cases codeine, given in doses of half a grain, repeated frequently, acts well. Opium, aside from its action in relieving pain, seems in many cases to have a very considerable effect in arresting the progress of gangrenous diseases, as has been pointed out by Pollock. The question of amputation often requires the gravest consideration in cases of dry gangrene. As this form of gangrene is usually very slow in its progress, if the patient's strength can be sustained, the operation may be deferred until it is evident that the limb is likely to be involved, or until there is an attempt at the formation of a line of demarcation. In embolic gangrene amputation should be postponed, if possible, until this line has formed. At the present time the results following amputation for dry gan- grene are more satisfactory, owing to the employment of aseptic and anti- septic methods, and to the fact that amputation is now done at a point far above the diseased tissues, and the operation is therefore much more frequently resorted to. In a case of dry gangrene, therefore, in which the foot and a portion of the leg are involved, if the patient is not too feeble, amputation should be performed at the knee-joint or in the lower part of the thigh ; the latter position is preferred by some surgeons, as the blood-supply of the flaps in this region comes from the profunda femoris. Moist Gangrene.—Moist gangrene may occur from the direct mechan- ical destruction of the vitality of the tissues, such as occurs in extensive crushing and laceration of the parts in machinery accidents, or from the passage of heavy bodies and wheels of wagons and cars over the parts. I t may also result from the sudden obstruction of the main arterial current, from division or ligature of an artery, or from an embolus, or obstruction of the main veins, as is observed in cases of strangulation of parts by tight bandaging or ligatures. It may result also from obstruction of the blood- supply by the exudations resulting from inflammation, or from the pri- mary or secondary effects of heat and cold, as is seen in burns, scalds, or frost-bite. Direct Gangrene.—A form of moist gangrene which may be described as direct gangrene may result from the immediate crushing of the tissues by an accident, their vitality being instantly destroyed. Examples of this form of death of tissues are common in machinery and railroad accidents and in parts crushed by heavy bodies ; here the parts are cold and discolored, and present no signs of putrefaction unless exposed to the air for some time.