751 TUMORS OF THE MOUTH. extensive destruction of the cheek or necrosis of the hone has taken place. We have recently had under our care a case in which almost the entire lower jaw and a portion of the upper jaw were necrosed and were re- moved, in which recovery finally took place. (Fig. 670.) After the sepa- Fig. 669. Gangrenous stomatitis. Necrosis of the lower jaw following gangrenous stomatitis. ration of the sloughs and dead bone, great contraction and deformity often result; if the lips are involved, the oral aperture may be much contracted, or the lower jaw may be so firmly bound down by adhesions that the mouth cannot be opened, or the tongue may be firmly adherent to the floor of the mouth. Coincidently with the development of gangrenous stomatitis in female children noma pudendi is sometimes observed. Treatment.—As soon as it is evident that the gangrenous process has attacked the gums or the cheeks, the patient should be anaesthetized, a mouth-gag inserted to expose the oral cavity widely, the sloughing tissues removed with forceps and scissors or with a curette, and the surface thus exposed cauterized with nitric acid or the actual cautery. A mouth-wash of chlorate of potassium and myrrh, or a weak permanganate of potassium solution, should be used freely afterwards. The cauterization should be repeated in a few days if the disease continues to spread or if new areas of gangrene develop. The patient should be given stimulants freely, with quinine and iron, and allowed a most nutritious diet. Under this method of treatment we have seen the disease arrested, with moderate destruction of the tissues, and have also observed arrest of the process, followed by recovery in well-advanced cases. TUMORS OF THE MOUTH. Epithelioma of the floor of the mouth is a comparatively rare affection as a primary growth, but may result from extension from the tongue or the gums. The treatment consists in removal of the growth through the mouth or through an incision made below the chin. Naevus of the floor of the mouth is also a rare affection, and its treatment is similar to that employed in na?vus in other localities. Ranula.—This consists of a thin-walled cystic swelling springing from the floor of the mouth beneath the tongue, and containing a thick, clear