1209 TUMORS OF THE OVARY. ductive power. One reason for holding the latter view is the great variety of tissues which are found in these tumors as contrasted with dermoid cysts found in other parts of the body. (6) Solid tumors of the ovary may be benign, such as fibroma or adenoma. More rarely warty growths are found covering the ex- ternal surface of the organ. (Fig. 921.) Sarcoma and carcinoma are not uncommon ; epithelioma is also found. These tumors rarely attain a large size, seldom being six inches in diameter. Usually they are glob- ular, with a rather smooth surface. Solid tumors of the broad liga- ments occur rarely. Myofibroma, developing from the unstriped mus- cular fibres of the ligaments, and lipoma are found. Secondary ma- lignant growths are common in the broad ligament, developing from the lymphatics in the neighbor- hood. Course.—Tuinors growing from the ovary usually develop from its free surface and extend directly into the peritoneal cavity, but they may enlarge in the opposite direction between the folds of the broad ligament, and thus become almost entirely extra- peritoneal tumors. The parovarian cysts develop between the folds of the broad ligament, the peritoneum over them usually not being adherent; but the ovarian cysts which develop from the hiluni may also penetrate the broad ligament. As the tumor grows upward in the peritoneal cavity it presses upon different organs, and forms adhesions with them or with the parietal peritoneum. Occasionally, however, the tumor does not form adhesions, even when it is of large size and long duration. When both ovaries are cystic the two cysts may become adherent, and an opening may form between their cavities, so that the cyst will appear to be a single cyst with two pedicles. As the tumor grows outward towards the perito- neal cavity the hiluni of the ovary is not much altered, and as the vessels enter the tumor through the hilum the latter forms the pedicle. The pedicle varies in size and shape, usually being somewhat flattened, and a couple of inches in breadth by half an inch in thickness; but in some cases it becomes immensely elongated, and the tumor may be rotated uijon its pedicle, the latter being twisted so severely as to cut off the circulation and cause gangrene. The symptoms of this condition resemble those of acute peritonitis or intestinal obstruction, the patient falling into a con- dition of shock, with subnormal temperature, vomiting, which may become fecal, and absolute constipation, with great abdominal pain. Occasionally the pedicle gives way entirely, but in the majority of cases the tumor has Fig. 921. Papilloma of ovary. (Cleveland.)