252 NITROUS OXIDE GAS. dermically to produce local anaesthesia in minor operations, a one-tenth, to one-twentieth solution in olive oil being employed. Its hypodermic use is not unattended with danger. GENERAL ANAESTHESIA. General anaesthesia may be produced by the use of nitrous oxide gas, ether, chloroform, A. 0. E. mixture, ethyl bromide, or other substances. The condition of general anaesthesia is one in which there is always some danger. Accidents may occur during the development or after the pro- duction of this condition, and the surgeon, and the assistant who administers the anaesthetic, should be mindful of this fact and watch the patient most carefully. Choice of Anaesthetic.—In selecting an anaesthetic the most impor- tant considerations are its safety and its suitability for the individual case. Of the anaesthetics used to produce general anaesthesia, in point of safety nitrous oxide gas holds the first place, but unfortunately its use is restricted to cases in which only a few minutes' anaesthesia is required. Next in safety is ether, and next chloroform. Statistics show that the mortality following the administration of nitrous oxide gas is 1 to 5,250,000 ; of ether, 1 to 16,675; of chloroform, 1 to 3749. From these figures it will be seen that nitrous oxide gas is by far the safest anaesthetic; but it should be re- membered that nitrous oxide is used only in trivial operations, while ether and chloroform are employed in the most serious surgical procedures, and that many of the deaths attributed to the anaesthetics may have been due to conditions resulting from the operations themselves. Nitrous Oxide Gas.—This gas is administered for the purpose of producing anaesthesia of limited duration. The apparatus best suited for its administration consists of a cylinder of metal in which the gas is com- pressed ; this is attached by a tube to a rubber bag, and to this bag is attached a mouth-piece provided with a double valve, which prevents the expired air from passing back into the bag. The flow of gas is regulated by a stopcock attached to the cylinder. In administering this anaesthetic the patient is usually placed in the sitting or recumbent posture, and after removing false teeth or foreign bodies from the mouth, the jaws are held apart by a gag or a cork or piece of wood, with a safety-string attached, which is placed between the molar teeth. The mouth-piece is next placed over the mouth, the nostrils are closed with the thumb and fingers, the gas is turned on, and the patient is instructed to take deep breaths. Soon after the gas is inhaled slight cyanosis of the face appears, and usually in one minute it loses its expression and is deeply cyanosed, the pupils dilate, the breathing becomes stertorous, the conjunctiva insensitive, and the respi- ration slow and shallow. Complete anaesthesia is indicated by cyanosis and stertor. As soon as the inhalation of the gas is stopped the cyanosis dis- appears, the stertor ceases, and consciousness returns. The shortness of the period of anaesthesia induced by nitrous oxide gas unfortunately prevents its employment in the majority of surgical opera- tions. An abscess may be opened, or teeth extracted, but any operation occupying more than a few minutes cannot be undertaken under this variety