748 CHAPTER XXVI. SURGERY OF THE TONGUE, CHEEKS, GUMS, JAWS, AND SOFT AND HARD PALATE. Injuries of the Gums, Cheeks, Jaws, and Soft and Hard Palate.—These may result from bodies either thrust through the cheeks or entering through the mouth. Burns and scalds of these parts may result from hot substances or hot fluids, or steam, or caustics, such as ammonia or strong acids. The injury from burns or scalds is not usually severe, as the hot substance is quickly ejected; but those received from caustic alkalies or acids are apt to be followed by sloughing of the mucous membrane, and are often marked by contraction and deformity. Incised and lacerated wounds of the cheek, if they involve the duct of the parotid gland, may be followed by a salivary fistula. Incised and lacerated wounds of the gums, cheeks, and palate generally result from falls upon sharp or blunt bodies, such as sticks, pencils, or pipe-stems, which enter the mouth, and are forcibly driven into the tissues ; they may also result from gunshot wounds, Perforation of the soft and of the hard palate may occur as the result of these injuries. Hemorrhage following wounds of these parts is usually very profuse at first, but, if no important vessel has been divided, soon ceases. Treatment.—If a bleeding vessel is exposed in the wound, it should be secured by a ligature, and the wound carefully explored to discover if a foreign body is present in it. This, if found, should be removed, and, after irrigation with sterilized water or boric acid solution, the edges of the wound should be approximated with sutures passed through the mucous membrane and subjacent tissues. If the wound involves the skin, the external wound should be closed by a separate row of sutures. The patient should be given only liquid nourishment, and instructed to wash the mouth constantly with some weak antiseptic solution. If caustic alkalies or acids have been taken into the mouth, their action should be arrested by the use of acid or al- kaline solutions, as the case may be: the subsequent treatment of the wound, as in the case of burns and scalds, consists in keeping the parts clean by the employment of mild antiseptic mouth-washes, and the pre- vention of adhesions and contraction by a packing of iodoform gauze. INJURIES OF THE TONGUE. These may consist of burns, scalds, injuries from caustic alkalies or acids, stings of insects or serpents, incised and lacerated wounds. Burns and Scalds of the Tongue.—These injuries generally result from the application of hot solids or liquids, and are usually superficial, being accompanied by burning and pain for only a few hours ; whereas the injuries following the application of caustic alkalies or acids are deeper and