EXTRAPERITONEAL ABDOMINAL OPERATIONS. 923 the stomach and intestine, however, or of ligation of the stump of the ap- pendix, nothing should be given to excite peristalsis for at least a week, as otherwise the intestinal wound may open. Some surgeons allow patients to get up on the tenth or fourteenth day if primary union of the abdominal wall has taken place. Experiments show, however, that it requires at least three weeks for the new connective tissue to become firm, and if any tension is put on the abdominal walls before that time there is great danger that the new cicatricial tissue will stretch, and a hernia will be produced. When suppuration has taken place in the wound this period should be lengthened, because there is then more cicatricial tissue and more danger of a hernia. For similar reasons the patient should wear an abdominal belt as a support for at least a year after the operation, and the scar should always be watched, so that on the least appearance of hernia a belt or truss may be applied at once. Hernia usually develops, if at all, in the first year. Extraperitoneal Operations.—Many of the organs in the abdomen, and many inflammatory foci as well, may be reached without opening the perito- neal cavity. The pelvic cavity can be made accessible by incisions parallel to Poupart's ligament, the parietal peritoneum being stripped up as in the old operation for ligature of the iliac artery, and the uterus, bladder, ureter, or other organs reached, or deep collections of pus evacuated, even if they are intraperitoneal, by dividing the peritoneum where they are adherent to it. The kidneys can be removed through incisions in front, somewhat ex- ternal to the rectus muscles, the peritoneum being stripped up and carrying the large intestine with it until the surface of the kidney comes into view. Extraperitoneal operations are also possible in operating for appendicular abscesses, but are now seldom used. Care is necessary in handling the delicate peritoneum, but rents in it may be easily closed by suture and the operation proceeded with. If pus is to be discharged, the wound should be packed with gauze, as described for intraperitoneal operations, and the ques- tion of drainage should be treated on the same principles. The abdominal incision is closed in the usual manner. DISEASES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. Inflammation.—Ordinary cellulitis of the abdominal wall is not very common, and the surgeon should make certain that it does not arise from some intraperitoneal inflammation. The abdominal wall may be the seat of abscesses as the result of infection, and subcutaneous or muscular gummata are not infrequent in this region, being often mistaken for some form of neoplasm. Tumors of the abdominal wall arising from the skin are simi- lar to those in other parts. Subcutaneous lipoma and sebaceous cysts are frequent. Sarcoma is found in the muscles and fascia, but these parts are especially liable to a peculiar form of fibrous tumor called a desmoid, which resembles sarcoma, but is less malignant. These tumors form flat masses in the muscles, varying in size from small nodules to the size of the hand and sometimes three or four inches in thickness. It is difficult to distinguish them from sarcoma and from chronic inflammatory conditions, such as gumma. The treatment should be thorough extirpation, as they are liable to return unless completely removed.