84 THYROID DERMOIDS. inflamed, and the skin over them is generally well nourished and seldom ulcerates. Treatment.—A dermoid cyst can be removed only by operation, and the sac must be completely extirpated or it will reproduce the tumor. The superficial tumors are usually small. Their removal is generally undertaken for cosmetic purposes only, and the operation is simple, involving merely an incision of the skin, turning back the flaps, and shelling out the tumor. In the case of dermoids on the edge of the orbit, however, a prolongation of the sac will sometimes be fouud running down well into the orbit, although it will seldom be fouud attached there, and can generally be shelled out by blunt dissection without injury to the contents of that cavity. Occasionally the intra-orbital part is connected with the extra-orbital part by a very narrow pedicle, and therefore it is important to look carefully for such a process in attempting the removal of the cyst, as the part within the orbit will reproduce the tumor if overlooked. The treatment of the dermoids originating in the ovary will be discussed under the head of pelvic and abdominal tumors. Thyroid Dermoids.—The solid dermoid tumors are called thyroid der- moids. They occur only in the pharynx or in the neighborhood of the ■p 42 coccyx. In the latter situation they arise from remains of the depression which forms the anus and the anal part of the gut. The solid tumors are made up of epithelial cells in a fibrous-tissue stroma, which divides them into lobes resem- bling somewhat the structure of a thyroid gland, whence their name. (Fig. 42.) They sometimes attain such a size in the coccygeal region that the child seems an appendage of the immense tumor, on which it sits as on a cushion. In other cases the tumor grows within the pelvis. The pharyngeal tumors project into the mouth or even externally, and are very rare. The removal of the thyroid dermoids from the region of the rectum is, as a rule, a very serious matter, for the tumors are large and well supplied with blood, and the bowel and bladder are often ad- herent and exposed to injury. It should be noted that not all dermoid tumors iu the region of the anus are of the solid variety, dermoid cysts also being found in the neighborhood of the coccygeal dimple. Congenital sacral thyroid dermoid. BRANCHIAL CYSTS. In the development of the face and neck, the lower jaw, larynx, thyroid gland, and tongue are formed from projections which grow forward on each side of the neck from the main mass of foetal matter in the neighborhood of the spinal axis. These projections are separated by grooves known as the branchial clefts, but the clefts are not complete, for both the ectoderm and