TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. 352 Treatment.—This is the same as for aneurism. In suitable locations digital compression upon the proximal side of the tumor, combined with direct pressure over the communication between the aneurism and the vein, should first be tried ; this method of treatment has been followed by satis- factory results. If this fails, the limb should be rendered bloodless by Esmarch's bandage, and the vein exposed and tied with a double ligature ; the sac being next exposed, its communication with the artery should be located, and two ligatures applied to the artery; after applying the liga- tures the sac is removed. The results following ligature of the vessels and the removal of the sac are much more successful under the modern methods of wound treatment than formerly. TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. This consists of a subcutaneous collection of arterial blood in the tissues communicating with a wounded artery, and in the strict acceptation of the term is not an aneurism, as none of the coats of the artery enclose or circum- scribe the collection. A traumatic aneurism may be diffused or circumscribed, and may result from a subcutaneous rupture or from a punctured wound or complete or incomplete division of an artery. It may occur as the result of gunshot wound, the vessel being contused at the time, and sloughing later. It is also seen in connection with open wounds of arteries, where the external wound has healed before the wound in the artery has cicatrized. As the result of the injury to the walls of the artery, blood escapes into the sur- rounding tissues in greater or lesser quantity, according to the extent of the wound in the vessel; if the wound is an extensive one, or if the artery is completely ruptured, blood in large quantity is poured out in the tissues, and, forcing its way along the different layers of fasciae and muscles, soon causes marked swelling and tension of the parts ; this gives rise to the con- dition known as diffused traumatic aneurism. If, on the other hand, the wound in the artery is a small one, a small amount of blood may escape gradually, and be circumscribed by coagula and the surrounding tissues, which form an adventitious sac ; this is known as a circumscribed traumatic aneurism. A diffused traumatic aneurism usually increases rapidly in size, and may extend widely through the tissues, causing much swelling, or may reach the surface and rupture, giving rise to fatal hemorrhage, or the tissues sur- rounding the effused blood may be the seat of acute suppurative inflamma- tion, which gives rise to abscess; when this opens pus is discharged, and this is followed by the escape of clots and free bleeding, which is apt to be fatal unless promptly controlled. A circumscribed traumatic aneurism, as before stated, does not tend to increase rapidly in size, as the sac is firmer and stronger and may undergo spontaneous cure in time, but is liable to present yielding of some portion of the sac, which leads to a rapid enlargement of the aneurism, in which case the conditions are similar to those found in diffused traumatic aneurism. Symptoms.—A diffused traumatic aneurism usually presents a rapidly growing swelling, with tension of the overlying tissues ; there may be feeble or well-marked expansile pulsation and bruit, and a thrill can usually be de-