PLASTERS. 193 then moulded to the part and held firmly in position by the turns of a roller bandage ; in a short time it becomes dry and hard. (Fig. 131.) Porous Felt Splints.—This material also is employed for the manu- facture of splints, and is applied by dipping it in hot water and moulding it to the part; as it dries it becomes hard. PLASTERS. The varieties of plasters which are most commonly employed in surgical dressings are adhesive or resin plaster, isinglass plaster, rubber adhesive plas- ter, and soap plaster. Before using plasters, if the part to which they are to be applied is covered by hairs, these should be removed by shaving, otherwise traction upon them, if the plaster is used for the purpose of ex- tension, will give the patient discomfort or pain. If this precaution has been neglected, the final removal of the plaster also will cause severe pain. Resin Plaster.—This plaster is widely employed in surgical dressings. It is cut into strips of the required width and length, and is heated before being applied to the surface by applying the unspread side to a vessel con- taining hot water, or by passing it rapidly through the flame of an alcohol lamp. This variety of plaster is generally used in making the extension apparatus for the treatment of fractures, for strapping the chest in fractures of the ribs and sternum, and for strapping the testicle, ulcers, or joints. Isinglass Plaster.—This plaster is made by spreading a solution of isinglass upon silk or muslin, and is frequently employed in the dressing of superficial wounds. It is made to adhere to the surface by moistening it. Rubber Adhesive Plaster.—This plaster is made by spreading a preparation of india-rubber on muslin, and has the advantage over ordinary resin plaster that it adheres without the application of heat. When applied continuously to the skin for some time it is apt to produce a certain amount of irritation. It is employed for the same purposes as resin plaster. Soap Plaster.—Soap plaster for surgical purposes is prepared by spreading Emplastrum Saponis upon kid or chamois. It is not used for the same purposes as the resin or the rubber plaster, as it has little adhesive power, but is employed simply to give support to parts or to protect salient portions of the skeleton from pressure. It constitutes a useful dressing when applied over the sacrum in cases of threatened bed-sores, and may he employed with advantage to protect bony prominences which are sub- jected to splint pressure in the treatment of fractures. In the treatment of sprains of joints a well-moulded soap plaster splint secured by a bandage will often be found a most efficient dressing. STRAPPING. The application of strips of plaster to produce pressure or fixation is often resorted to in surgical practice. Strapping the Testicle.—In strapping the testicle strips of resin plaster are usually employed, half an inch in width and twelve inches in length. The scrotum should be washed and shaved, and the surgeon then draws the skin over the affected organ tense by passing the thumb and 13