CLINICAL HISTORY OF SARCOMA. Ill Fig. 73. \ where. In addition to true metastasis by the blood-vessels and the lymph- vessels, a sort of transplantation may occur in a sarcoma growing from one of the serous surfaces of the body, as, for instance, the peritoneum, which may give rise to growths elsewhere in that cavity by fragments or cells, which are de- tached from its surface and implanted in other parts of the serous lining. Occurrence.—Sarcoma is found in all the organs and tissues of the body, the bones, skin, testicles, ovary, breast, and uterus being most frequently involved. Multiple sarcoma is found in the skin in the form of numerous small growths scat- tered over the body, and its course is rather a slow one, although it progresses to a fatal termination, the tumors finally ulcerating, and internal secondary deposits taking place. Sarcoma of the skin, however, also occurs in single tumors, which often arise from a wart or congenital mole, and these may be very malignant, not merely making large tumors locally, but spreading very rapidly to other parts and forming meta- static deposits. Clinical Appearance and History.— The clinical history of sarcomata is not easy to sketch, on account of the variations in the different types. Sarcoma is found at all ages, but is more frequent from puberty to the thirtieth year of life. In general it may be said that sarcoma grows very rapidly, and remains partially encapsulated from the surrounding tis- sue. It is very vascular, and its growth is apt to be painful, but ulcer- ation does not, as a rule, set in until late, although if the tumor be very prominent the skin over the surface may slough in consequence of injury or because its blood-supply is interfered with. This sloughing is unlike the ulceration occurring with carcinoma, in which the skin actually becomes involved in the epithelial growth and then breaks down. When an open- ing has thus been made in the overlying tissues the capsule yields, and the tumor is apt to project through it in a mass of cauliflower shape. In sar- coma of the internal organs a rise of temperature iu irregular curves resem- bling pyaemia or tuberculosis or even typhoid fever often takes place; and a local rise of temperature is not uncommon in sarcoma, a difference of as much as one degree having been detected by the surface thermometer. The symptoms produced by the tumor depend upon its situation, and they will be described in connection with the different organs. The course of a sarcoma depends largely upon its structure: thus, the round-cell sarcomata (especially if the cells are small) are more malignant than the spindle-cell tumors, and both of these are more malignant than the Metastatic sarcoma of groin secondary to sarcoma of neck. (Dr. R. Abbe.)