590 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. ment.—This consists in the use of a posterior splint and adhesive straps to draw the fragments into position, the dressing being very similar to that employed in fractures of the patella; or a more satisfactory treat- ment is to cut down upon the ruptured tendon and suture the divided ends together with silk or kangaroo tendon sutures; or, if it has been torn loose from the bone, to drill the bone and pass kangaroo tendon sutures through the drill-holes, and secure them to the ruptured end of the tendon. Congenital displacements of the patella have been observed in a few cases. The treatment consists in the application of a brace. In cases of displacement of the patella from pathological causes, such as relaxation of the ligaments, the treatment consists in the use of a compress and a bandage, or the application of a brace, which limits the motion of the knee and at the same time prevents displacement of the patella. DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. Dislocations of the knee are infrequent injuries, and result only from the application of great force. The ligaments are very strong, and occupy the internal, external, and posterior aspects of the joint, while in front the patella with its tendon gives additional strength to the articulation. Dis- locations of the knee-joint may be backward, forward, lateral, or rotatory. Forward Dislocation of the Knee.—This may be complete or in- complete, and may result from over-extension of the knee, or from direct violence received upon the front of the thigh or the back of the leg. Symp- toms.—In this dislocation, if complete, the leg is shortened from one to three inches, and may be extended or slightly flexed. Two prominences are observed, one in front of the knee, caused by the head of the tibia, and the other behind the knee, produced by the lower extremity of the femur. (Fig. 528.) The patella may rest in front of the tibia or in the de- pression above the latter. Treatment.—The pa- tient, having been anaesthetized, is placed upon his back ; extension is made upon the leg and counter- extension upon the thigh, and, the surgeon's arm being placed beneath the joint, the leg is gradually flexed. Under this manipulation the bones usually slip into place. The after-treatment consists in fixation of the joint by the application of a pos- terior padded splint; the region of the joint should also be covered for a few days with lint saturated with lead water and laudanum. As soon as the swelling has subsided the knee-joint should be fixed in the extended position by the application of a plaster of Paris bandage, which should be re- tained for about three weeks, after which the patient should be allowed to use the limb, but the joint motions should be restricted for some weeks by some form of splint or brace. Fig. 528. Forward dislocation of the knee. (Agnew.)