GASTROSTOMY. 942 perfectly normal relation of the parts, and is, therefore, to be preferred to a gastroenterostomy. In cases of malignant disease, however, very few of the patients have survived resection and remained without recurrence, so that gastroenterostomy offers as much hope of prolonging life, since it re- lieves the obstruction, which is the most urgent symptom of the disease, as well as resection. Iu cancer of the pylorus, therefore, resection should be strictly limited to tumors having no sign of secondary disease in the glands. Operations.—G-astrotomy is the simple incision of the stomach for the removal of a foreign body or for exploration of its interior, and is per- formed by doing a median laparotomy and making an incision on the anterior surface of the stomach parallel with the greater curvature, but sufficiently far away from it to avoid the arterial branches. The incision is closed by three tiers of sutures, the first through the mucous membrane, the second suturing the muscle, which is very thick, and the third drawing the serous coat together over the wound. Gastrostomy.—In cases of stricture of the oesophagus a permanent opening may be made in the stomach for the introduction of food and the prolongation of life, and this operation is called gastrostomy. The simplest method of its performance is to make a small oblique incision through the abdominal wall, parallel to the ribs and a finger's breadth distant from them. The peritoneum is sutured to the skin around this opening. The anterior wall of the stomach is picked up and two stout loops of silk passed in the thickness of the wall, but not entirely through it, within half an inch of each other. While an assistant holds the stomach in the wound by these loops the peritoneal coat of the stomach is sutured to the serous membrane of the abdominal wall. The stomach is allowed to form adhesions to the abdominal wall before it is incised, the opening being delayed for twenty- four hours, if the patient's condition allows. Hahn makes an incision over the eighth intercostal space on the left side, opens the peritoneum, draws a loop of the stomach through this space, and sutures it to the edge of the incision The great objection to the simple method of gastrostomy is the difficulty of closing the opening in the stomach by a pad, resulting in irri- tation of the skin in the neighborhood by the gastric juice. Hahn's method aims to overcome this by making the opening in the stomach in the centre of a bony framework which furnishes a support for the pad. A still better method of forming a fistula is that devised by Witzel. The ordinary incision is made through the rectus muscle, and the stomach is drawn out and a minute opening made in it. A small catheter, No. 15 F., is passed into this opening, and a fold of the wall of the stomach is drawn over the catheter on each side as it lies against the stomach-wall, the folds being secured by two or three sutures. (Figs. 774, 775, 776.) The stomach is then fixed in the abdominal wound by sutures in the usual way, closing it around the catheter as tightly as possible. The intention of this operation is to produce an oblique canal by the folding of the stomach- wall around the catheter, so that when the stomach is distended the pressure within will close the canal by valvular action. The results obtained by this method are excellent, the only objections to it being that it necessitates opening of the stomach at the time of operation and exposing the peritoneal