WOUNDS FROM SMALL SHOT. 228" of rock, earth, and sand being thrown against the body with great violence. Many of these accidents result fatally at the time of the explosion ; in other cases the patients may suffer from avulsion of the limbs or other portions of the body, from compound comminuted fractures, and from extensive lacerated wounds, the wounds being generally filled with fragments of stone, sand, or earth ; at the same time the tissues often present extensive powder- burns. If death does not result immediately from the accident, shock or hemorrhage may in a few hours bring about a fatal termination. Treatment.—The first indication in the treatment of these wounds, if severe, is to control hemorrhage and bring about reaction from the shock, which is usually well marked. If the extremities be so injured that ampu- tation is necessary, as soon as reaction has occurred this should be performed. Extensive lacerated and contused wounds in these injuries are generally filled with fragments of stones, sand, and earth, so that it is a difficult mat- ter to cleanse them: this can best be accomplished by using a stream of water and washing out the foreign matter as far as possible, removing it also by the use of forceps and curette. When satisfactorily cleansed, they should be dressed as lacerated and contused wounds, and the same caution observed as to the non-introduction of sutures. Gunshot Wounds from Small Shot.—These wounds vary in se- verity with the size and number of the shot inflicting the injury and with the distance at which the charge is received. Small shot at long range produce slight injuries, unless a tender organ, such as the eye, be penetrated, which may result in its destruction, or an important vein or artery be injured, and usually present a number of distinct wounds from the scattering of the charge ; the shot may simply penetrate the skin, or may involve the deeper tissues, or a few shot may penetrate the walls of the chest or the abdomen. On the other hand, if the charge of small shot is received at close range, its action upon the tissues resembles that of a bullet, and extensive laceration of skin, muscles, fasciae, vessels, and nerves, as well as comminution of the bone, may result. We have seen wounds produced by charges of No. 10 shot at close range, in which an opening several inches in diameter was made through the tissues, the soft parts and the bones being carried away in the line of the wound. Portions of the scalp and skull, or of the face, chest, abdomen, or extremities, may also be torn away. A number of such cases of wounds of the extremities have come under our observation in which primary amputation was required. Wounds produced by larger-sized shot, such as No. 1, BB, or buckshot, are often very serious injuries, even if received at a much longer range : here the bones may be fractured or contused, important vessels may be in- jured, or the cavities of the body may be penetrated and their contained viscera injured. Treatment.—If the skin has been penetrated by small shot, the surface of the skin should be sterilized, and if any of the shot can be felt they should be picked out with the point of a bistoury and the wounds covered with a gauze dressing. If the shot wounds be upon the face, where a gauze dressing cannot well be applied, each little puncture may be covered with a scab of gauze and iodoform collodion. Shot which have entered more