159 ASEPTIC OPERATION. yards in width and from six to seven feet in length, by turning in about ten inches of one end of the sheet over the upper part of the chest and placing a strip of bandage in this fold, which should be secured around the neck, and tied by a second strip of bandage over the sheet at the waist. Preparation of Room for Operation.—In hospital practice suit- able operating-rooms are provided; in private practice, however, the sur- geon is often called upon to select a room and give directions as to its prepa- ration. A well-lighted room should always be selected, and all unnecessary articles of furniture, such as ornaments, pictures, and curtains, should be removed. The carpet should be taken up, and the floor scrubbed. A few small tables and a large wooden table should be placed in the room, having previously been dusted and wiped off with a bichloride solution. All pre- parations should be made, if possible, upon the day before the operation, as the stirring up of dust incidental to the change in furniture in cleaning the room on the day of operation immediately before the time set is more dan- gerous than no cleaning of the room whatever, since the principal contami- nation of the wound is likely to come from germs contained in the dust. In case of emergency the floor may be well moistened by sprinkling with water to lay the dust. The preparation of the room is not, in our judgment, a matter that affects the results of operations as much as does the exercise of great care in regard to aseptic details of the operation itself. We have performed many serious operations in emergency cases in rooms which were far from clean, the beds occupied by the patients at the time of and after the operation, as well as the patients themselves, being in a filthy condition, yet with rigid observance of the rules of asepsis as regarded the wounds, the latter generally ran a typically aseptic course. Details of an Aseptic Operation.—The patient, being prepared for operation as described, and having been anaesthetized, is placed upon the operating-table, the surgeon, assistants, and nurses also being prepared for the operation as previously described. If the operation be one upon the face, neck, or chest, it is well before the dressings covering the seat of opera- tion are removed to cover the patient's hair with a towel or handkerchief bandage made of several layers of sterilized or bichloride gauze. The por- tions of the patient's body which it is not necessary to expose in the operation should be covered with a woollen blanket, and this covered with a sterilized sheet. Some surgeons prefer to have the patient wear a sterilized gown, which is ripped or cut to expose the part to be operated upon. The region of the wound and the operating-table are next protected with sterilized towels or cloths. The surgeon having assigned the assistants and nurses their duties, the dressing is removed from the part to be operated upon, and the operation is begun. Hemorrhage is controlled during the operation by the use of haemostatic forceps, and sterilized gauze pledgets are employed to keep the wound free from blood. When the operation is completed, the vessels are ligated, the haemostatic forceps are removed, and the wound is dried with gauze pledgets. If, for any reason, the surgeon deems it advisable to irrigate the wound, it may be done with hot water which has been boiled, or with hot sterilized salt solution. If the surgeon decides that drainage is not necessary, the deeper parts of the wound may then be brought together