INSANITY AFTER OPERATIONS. 144 treatment. Transfusion of blood has been practised in these cases, but apparently has been of little service, and the wound made in its performance subjects the patient to the risk of additional bleeding. INSANITY AFTER OPERATIONS OR INJURIES. A form of insanity described as confusional insanity is occasionally ob- served as a complication of operations and injuries. It has been attributed to the shock of the operation or injury, or to the nervous tension or anxiety preceding the operation, or to the use of an anaesthetic. It has been most often observed after injuries of the head, as would be expected, but is a rare sequela of surgical operations ; it is apt to occur when there is a com- plete absence of heredity, and in persons free from any neurotic taint. When the affection develops after an injury or operation there is usually a period of quiescence of from three to eight days, but it has been observed as late as eight weeks after an operation. When it occurs after the em- ployment of an anaesthetic it is developed directly after its use. Its occur- rence has also been attributed to the toxic action of certain drugs, such as carbolic acid or iodoform employed in the dressing of wounds: we have seen a case develop after iodoform poisoning in an elderly man. That it may occur independently of the use of anaesthetics or drugs is proved by its occurrence in cases of injury where no anaesthetic was em- ployed, and in patients in whom the aseptic method only was employed.. We have seen the affection develop after the operation of nephrectomy and after a fracture of the femur, as well as after injuries of and operations upon the brain. In the majority of cases, if the affection is moderately acute, complete recovery follows. A slight cerebral disturbance is seen in elderly persons after injuries or operations, especially marked at night. This can often be avoided by having them sit up for a part of the day and by giving a milk punch at bedtime. TRAUMATIC HYSTERIA OR NEURASTHENIA. This is a condition which is sometimes observed after a severe physical shock combined with a mental shock. The subjects of this affection are usually those who have been in railway accidents, but it is also observed after other accidents. (See Railway Spine.) The affection is rarely de- veloped after surgical operations. It is said to occur most frequently in middle life, and is observed both in males and in females. Symptoms.—Patients often complain of uneasiness, headache, pain in certain portions of the body, relaxation of the sphincters, disturbance of vision and of the sexual organs, incontinence of urine, paralysis, hyperaes- thesia, and anaesthesia. Direct injury of nerve-trunks seems to predispose to the development of this condition, and a neurotic temperament also favors it. The exciting cause of the condition is usually an injury, and the gravity of the injury seems to bear no direct relation to its development, rather being dependent upon the terror and shocking surroundings at the time of the accident. Treatment.—Under favorable circumstances, if the patient's mind can