FISTULA IN ANO. 1013 washed out with a bichloride solution, and lightly packed with strips of iodoform gauze, after which a good-sized pad of sterilized or bichloride gauze, and a pad of cotton, should be placed over the wound and held in place by a T-bandage. The opening of these abscesses by a small puncture is apt to result in a permanent sinus, which is likely soon to communicate with the rectum, because of the lack of drainage. The after-treatment consists in introducing a one-grain opium sup- pository into the rectum and keeping the bowels at rest for three or four days, at which time a laxative should be given. The dressing is usually changed upon the third day : the packing is gently removed, the wound is irrigated, and a few strips of iodoform gauze are loosely packed into it; and this method of dressing should be continued until the wound has healed from the bottom by granulation. In deep and extensive abscesses it is often some weeks before the wound is solidly healed, but, as a rule, if they are treated in this manner the results as regards healing without the formation of a rectal fistula are good. Fistula in Ano, or Rectal Sinus.—This consists in a sinus resulting from an ischio-rectal abscess which communicates with the cavity of the rectum or is in close relation with its wall. A complete fistula is one in which a communication exists between the rectum and the cutaneous surface by means of a sinus. (Fig. 809.) A blind internal fistula consists of a suppurating tract communicating Fig. 809. Complete fistula in ano. Blind internal fistula. Blind external fistula. with the rectum, but having no external opening upon the skin. (Fig. 810.) A blind external fistula consists of a suppurating tract in close relation with the wall of the rectum, having an opening upon the cutaneous surface in the region of the anus. (Fig. 811.) A form of rectal fistula is also oc- casionally seen which is known as a horseshoe fistula, in which the pus has burrowed around the rectum from its point of origin, and communi- cates with the cavity of the rectum on opposite sides of the bowel and with the cutaneous surface at one or more points. (Fig. 813.) Examination of Rectal Fistulse.—In examining a patient suffering from fistula, he should be placed upon his back and a fine silver probe introduced into the external opening, the index finger being passed into the rectum. By gently manipulating the probe, while at the same time the