DISLOCATIONS OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. 576 disturbed in dislocation, but is not in fracture. In fracture the olecranon process and the external and internal condyles are on the same line; in dislocation the olecranon process occupies a position posterior to the con- dyles. The posterior projection in dislocation is increased by flexion and diminished by extensiou, whereas in fracture the posterior projection is diminished by flexion and increased by extension. In dislocation crepitus is absent; in fracture it can be obtained. In fracture the deformity disap- pears upon extension and counter-extension, but reappears as soon as the force is removed. In dislocation, when the deformity is once reduced by extension and counter-extension there is no tendency to its reproduction. Treatment.—Beduction in recent cases is usually very easy, especially if muscular resistance is removed by the administration of an anaesthetic. It may be accomplished by fixing the arm and flexing the forearm and then making traction, or the same result may be obtained by fixing the arm and bringing the forearm into extension, when by making traction and sudden flexion the bones will slip into place. After reduction the arm should be placed upon a well-padded anterior angular splint, which is retained for two or three weeks, after the first week passive movements and massage being practised to prevent stiffness of the joint. Forward Dislocation of the Radius and Ulna.—This is a rare form of dislocation, in which the radius and ulna occupy a position in front of the condyles of the humerus. (Fig. 504.) In Fig. 504. complete dislocation of the radius and ulna for- ward the broad surface of the humerus can be felt posteriorly, with the olecranon process and the head of the radius anteriorly. Treatment.—This dislocation may be re- duced by making forced flexion of the forearm, and at the same time extension from the wrist. Lateral Dislocations of Both Bones of the Forearm.—Lateral dislocations of the forearm are rare injuries : they are with few ex- ceptions incomplete, and are produced by vio- Anterior J^J*— - lence acting upon the lower and the upper arm in opposite directions. In incomplete outward dis- location the ulna is not entirely removed from the articular surface of the humerus; the radius may either remain in contact with the outer margin of the radial surface of the humerus or rest between the latter and the epi- condyloid eminence. (Fig. 505.) When the dislocation is more complete the head of the radius may be entirely external to the external condyle, while the outer articular surface of the humerus occupies the sigmoid cavity of the ulna. In inward dislocation the ulna rests upon the internal condyle, and the head of the radius may be in the great sigmoid cavity or upon its anterior or posterior surface. (Fig. 506.) The ulna may also be displaced behind the internal condyle of the humerus, and the radius occupy the olecranon cavity, forming a postero-lateral dislocation. Symptoms.—The arm is flexed and inclined inward or outward, the internal or external condyle is covered by the projection of the olecranon