1169 OPERATIONS FOR LACERATED PERINEUM. If this muscle is weakened or destroyed, the woman's condition is pitiable from the loss of control over the fecal movements, or at least over flatus. Treatment.—The injury should be repaired as soon as received, unless the sphincter ani is involved, a few stitches being placed so as to bring the raw surfaces together. Innumerable plastic operations have been devised for remedying this condition secondarily, but we can mention only a few. In all cases the hair should be cut close or shaved and the vagina thoroughly washed with soap and water before the operation. The patient should be in the lithotomy position. A. Operations for Partial Laceration.—1. In the simplest method the cicatricial skiu and mucous membrane are pared from a triangular surface ou each side of the vulva, the two being continuous in the middle line behind. (Fig. 880.) The freshening can usually be limited to the part about the hymen, and the normal skin should never be encroached upon. If a rectocele is present, the freshening must extend up to its crest. A deep suture is then passed, the needle en- tering the skin one-quarter of an inch away from the edge of the wound at its anterior angle, traversing the lateral tissues very deeply to pick up the torn fascia, and being carried backward and inward towards the median angle of the wound. It passes beneath the latter and returns in a similar course on the other side. Other Operation for partial sutures are passed parallel to this first one, about one- neum, surfaces freshened! quarter of an inch apart. In passing these sutures one and sutures placed ready finger of the left hand should be kept in the rectum, in °' yms' (Goodell-) order to avoid perforation of its mucous membrane, as the needle must sometimes pass very close to it in order to pick up the submucous rectal tissues. The sutures should not be drawn too tight, for fear of strangulation, as oedema is the rule after these operations. 2. A second form of operation, suggested by Emmet, makes a butterfly or clover-leaf denudation of the part, one part of the trefoil being on each side of the perineum, and the central one being formed on the prolapsing poste- rior vaginal wall. The sutures are passed in this operation so as to draw the three leaf-shaped denudations into a bunch, the two sides of the vulva being brought together and the rectocele drawn down against them so as to form a solid mass. This operation may be performed internally, as suggested by Emmet, by limiting the denudation to the membranes within the introitus. 3. The perineum may be repaired by a split-flap method, similar to that suggested by Jenks and Tait. The parts are put upon the stretch by two fingers in the anus, and tenacula hooked in each side of the labia, so as to pull the edge of the perineum out in a horizontal line. A sharp-pointed pair of scissors is introduced at the posterior edge of the vaginal mucous membrane and horizontal cuts made, so as to split the septum into two flaps. (Fig. 881.) In deep lacerations the tissues of the vaginal flap are very thin, and consist of the vaginal mucous membrane only. This splitti ng of the perineum is carried to the depth of an inch or an inch and a half and well out on the sides, arching slightly forward at each end. The middle point of the vagi- 74