TUBERCULOSIS. 56 rather thin white pus containing some of the characteristic granular masses, which under the microscope reveal the fungus. These abscesses closely resemble tubercular cold abscesses, especially in their tendency to burrow in the direction of least resistance or of gravity, and in the formation of long fistulae. Abscesses in the lung often open externally. When the point of inoculation is in the mouth the nodule becomes infected and suppuration sets in much earlier, and with the suppuration the growth of the fungus appears to be accelerated, so that large tumors are formed about the jaws. Metastasis occurs rarely, but has been found even in the brain. But the internal organs are generally infected directly from the extension of a nodide which forms in the wall of the intestine or in the mucous mem- brane of the bronchi or lungs and may involve any of the neighboring parts. The fungus finds its way into the respiratory passages by inhala- tion, sometimes being carried down by a foreign body, such as a grain or an infected carious tooth. A chronic perforating ulcer of the foot, known as "Madura foot," is caused by a fungus closely resembling the actino- myces. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of actinomycosis is very difficult, the nodules before breaking down resembling round-cell sarcoma, and later tubercu- lous or syphilitic tissue, even under the microscope, so that the recognition of the fungus may be absolutely necessary for a diagnosis. Clinically it may be distinguished from sarcoma by its tendency to suppuration, and from tuberculosis and syphilis by the freedom of the neighboring glands from infection. Iodide of potassium affects actinomycosis as well as syphilitic disease. The prognosis depends upon the site of the infection and the stage at which treatment is begun. Left to itself it appears to be invariably fatal, and when the internal organs are involved thorough surgical treatment is impossible. When it is possible to eradicate it completely by operation, recovery may follow. Treatment.—When the focus is seen before it has broken down, it should be thoroughly excised, like a malignant tumor. If an abscess has formed, it should be widely opened, and its walls excised if possible ; if not, it must be treated like a tuberculous abscess, with thorough curetting and cauteriza- tion. Injections of a 1 to 20 solution of carbolic acid may be made into any tissues which cannot be removed. The general health must be improved by every possible means. Cures in cattle and even iu man have recently been reported to have followed the internal administration of large doses of iodide of potassium. TUBERCULOSIS. Tuberculosis is an infectious disease caused by the tubercle bacillus, marked locally by circumscribed inflammatory nodules, with cheesy degen- eration of the centre of the mass and the production of peculiar cells, and having a tendency to invade the lymphatic channels, and secondarily the blood, resulting in similar inflammations of distant parts. The cause of the disease is the bacillus tuberculosis (Plate II., Fig. 25), discovered by Koch in 1881, a slender bacillus, sometimes slightly bent or curved, 2 to 6 micro- millimetres long and 2 micromillimetres thick, without power of motion. It has not been found elsewhere than in living animals, and appears to be