33 TREATMENT OF SEPTICEMIA. however, is through some vein which is involved in the inflammation. The bacteria penetrate its walls, and either enter the blood directly or cause a thrombus and enter the clot, small pieces of which are detached and carried off into the circulation. It is supposed by some that bacteria may also indirectly reach the blood by means of the lymphatics. Some forms of bacteria are able to live in the blood, multiplying there in such quantities as to block the small vessels (a condition called infarction) and thus cause gangrene mechanically. Symptoms.—The symptoms of this disease are the same as those of septic intoxication, with the addition of others due to the mechanical effects of the bacteria in the blood-vessels and to the progressive development of new foci of disease. The general symptoms are more intense, because the toxines are produced in the blood itself, where they can exert their full effect, instead of being absorbed from some place of production outside of the vessels, and as they are also constantly increasing in amount, in propor- tion to the multiplication of the bacteria, the symptoms become constantly worse. Fresh symptoms may be added from time to time as other parts of the body are attacked, depending upon the organ affected. One of the most constant of these is enlargement of the spleen and the lymphatic glands. The secondary effects of progressive septicaemia may be suppurative or non- suppurative inflammations. The suppurating lesions we shall consider by themselves under the head of Pycemia. The non-suppurating inflammations attack the veins, the endocardium, the kidney, the mucous membrane of the intestine, the meninges, the pleura, and other parts. Treatment.—This is the field of serum-therapy, of antitoxines, and we look to the future to provide us with some such agents which can be intro- duced into the body, by hypodermic injection or otherwise, and will be capable of destroying the germs or enabling the tissues and blood to destroy or neutralize them without injury to the patient. Some success has been achieved in this direction in the case of rabies, tetanus, diphtheria, and even pyogenic septicemia, but the subject is still too undeveloped for profitable discussion of its results. As yet the treatment of this condition is practically limited to disinfecting the original focus and any secondary one, so far as this can be accomplished, and to supporting the .strength of the patient in the hope that the amount of infection of the blood does not exceed his powers of resistance. Easily digested, nourishing food, such as milk and extracts of beef, must be given in suitable quantities and as often as the digestion is able to dispose of them, aided by peptonizing agents and bitters. Stimulants must be administered in large amounts,—whiskey, brandy, wines, and liqueurs. The skin, bowels, and kidneys must be kept active. If there is diarrhoea, it is not to be completely suppressed, for it aids in the elimination of the toxines, but it should be held in check with opium sufficiently to allow of proper absorption of the food. Where the vomiting is marked and uncontrollable, rectal feeding will be necessary. Drugs are of little value, but sparing use may be made of morphine and quinine as heart and nerve tonics, and, if the stomach is not disturbed, iron may be employed in the form of the tincture of the chloride. Some of the septic toxines act similarly to strychnine or atropine, and it is possible 3