574 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HEAD OF THE RADIUS. splint, with the addition of a compress over the anterior surface of the head of the radius. This splint should be changed at intervals of two or three days and worn for several weeks. After removing the splint the patient should be cautioned against making violent flexion, pronation, or supi- nation of the forearm, as it is often a matter of some weeks before the repair of the capsular ligament is sufficiently firm to prevent the recurrence of the displacement. In unreduced forward dislocations of the head of the radius patients often regain very fair use of the arm, but may have some limitation in flexion of the forearm upon the arm. If the displacement causes pain or interferes very decidedly with the use of the arm, attempts should be made to reduce it; if this cannot be done, the procedure which offers the best result as regards increased usefulness of the arm is excision of the head of the radius, a section of the bone being made just above the insertion of the tendon of the biceps muscle. We have seen very satisfac- tory results follow this procedure in these cases. Backward Dislocation of the Head of the Radius.—This is a rare form of dislocation, in which the head of the radius escapes through the posterior portion of the capsular ligament and rests behind the external condyle of the humerus. (Fig. 500.) Fig. 500. It may result from force applied to the front of the head of the radius, or may be caused by a fall upon the hand when the bones of the forearm are in extreme pronation. Symptoms.—In this dislocation the forearm is slightly flexed, the hand is pronated, supina- tion is impossible, a depression can be felt below the external condyle of the humerus, and the head of Backward dislocation of the head of the radius. ' (After Agnew.) the radius can be located behind the condyle ; flexion and extension of the forearm are also much diminished. Treatment.—The forearm should be flexed, and an assistant makes counter-extension from the arm while the surgeon makes extension from the hand, and by supinating the forearm and pressing the head of the bone forward towards the articular cavity the reduction can usually be accomplished. After reduction the forearm and arm should be placed on an obtuse-angled splint, which should be worn for several weeks. Outward Dislocation of the Head of the Radius.—This is an extremely rare dislocation : the head of the bone rests upon the epicondyloid ridge. The symptoms are a prominence above and in front of the external condyle of the humerus, flexion of the forearm in a position between prona- tion and supination, and impairment in the movements of flexion and exten- sion of the forearm. Treatment.—This can be accomplished by making extension and counter-extension when the arm is moderately flexed, at the same time pressing the head of the bone downward and forward. The limb should be fixed upon an angular splint, as after reduction of other forms of radial displacement.