580 DISLOCATION OF THE CARPAL BONES. Compound Dislocations of the Wrist—Compound dislocations of the wrist are serious injuries, and are often associated with extensive lacera- tion of the skin, ligaments, and tendons in connection with the wrist-joint. If the principal blood-vessels and nerves remain uninjured, although there may be extensive laceration of the soft parts, with comminution of the bones, it is often possible to save the part and to secure a useful hand. In cases where there is extensive comminution of the bones, the loose fragments should be removed and the wound and the surrounding skin should be ster- ilized. After reducing the displacement the part should be placed upon a well-padded palmar splint and a copious antiseptic dressing applied. In cases of ruptured nerves or tendons associated with this injury, these should be brought together with sutures, and important vessels, if injured, secured by ligatures. Congenital dislocations of the carpus are occasionally seen, in which the carpus may be displaced backward, forward, or laterally. The treatment of these cases has not, as a rule, been satisfactory, but in every case an attempt should be made to secure fixation of the wrist in its normal posi- tion by splints or mechanical appliances which allow of motion in certain directions and yet prevent the displacement of the bones. Dislocation of the Carpal Bones.—Displacements of single bones of the carpus are rare, from the fact that the bones are bound together by strong ligaments. Those most liable to be displaced are the os magnum, the semilunar, and the pisiform. Dislocation of the Os Magnum.—This is recognized by a prominence immediately behind the carpal extremity of the third metacarpal bone. This displacement is reduced by pressing the bone back into place, after which a compress should be applied over it, and the hand and forearm fixed upon a well-padded splint. Dislocation of the Semilunar Bone.—This injury is characterized by the presence of a hard body on a line with the metacarpal bone of the index finger and below the posterior margin of the carpal extremity of the radius. It is reduced by making extension from the hand and pressing the bone for- ward and upward; the hand and forearm should then be placed upon a palmar splint. Dislocation of the Pisiform Bone.—When this occurs the bone is detached from the cuneiform bone and drawn upward, and often can be recognized as a hard mass above the wrist. In reducing this displacement the hand should be flexed and the displaced bone drawn downward, and the hand fixed upon a splint in the flexed position. Dislocation of the Metacarpus.—Dislocation of the metacarpus as a whole is extremely rare. The accident will be recognized by a promi- nence on the back and front of the hand, with shortening of the hand. (Fig. 509.) Treatment.—Reduction is accomplished by extension and counter- extension, with manipulation, and after the deformity has been reduced the hand and forearm should be placed upon a palmar splint and a compress applied over the carpo-metacarpal joints. Dislocations of the Metacarpal Bones.—These are generally com- pound. The soft parts are apt to be extensively lacerated, and excision of