PROSTHETIC APPARATUS. 303 PROSTHETIC APPARATUS AFTER AMPUTATIONS. In performing amputations the surgeon should bear in mind the possi- bility of the patient's wearing an artificial limb, and for this reason should plan the operation in such a way that a useful stump may result, and should also endeavor to save as much of the limb as possible. This is particularly important in amputations of the thigh, where the longer the stump is the more satisfactory it will be for the adaptation of an artificial limb. In the leg, an amputation in the upper or middle third is better suited for the adapta- tion of prosthetic apparatus than one in the lower third ; indeed, the makers of artificial limbs hold that a stump not longer than half the length of the leg gives better results with prosthetic apparatus than a long stump extend- ing into the lower third of the leg. The fact that partial amputations of the foot—Chopart's, Pirogoff's—are often difficult to fit with prosthetic appa- ratus has influenced many surgeons to recommend amputation of the leg in these cases rather than partial amputation of the foot. But it should be borne in mind that many cases of partial amputation of the foot can go about comfortably without any apparatus other than a specially constructed leather shoe, or one with a steel plate in the sole and narrow steel braces fastened to the leg by a flexible collar. Prosthetic apparatus of the upper extremity, except in cases of amputation below the elbow, is usually of little practical value, and is serviceable only for cosmetic purposes. Many patients who have lost a limb never wear any prosthetic apparatus, by reason of the expense of the appliance and the discomfort which it sometimes entails until the wearer becomes accustomed to its use. Artificial Arms.—The artificial arm which is generally adapted to am- putations below the shoulder consists of a closely fitting leather socket, which covers the stump for several inches, and is secured to it and the body by straps. Light internal and external steel rods jointed at the elbow and containing a cogged wheel and ratchet, which allow flexion and exten- sion at the elbow with fixation at any angle, are attached to this and secured to a wooden block below the elbow, and at the end of this is fastened an artificial hand to which various implements may be screwed, Artificial arms. fit a portion of the stump of the forearm, and is secured to the arm above by a laced band. Many complicated forms of artificial arms have been devised which allow flexion and extension of the fingers through cords worked by movements of the opposite arm.