STRUCTURE OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 789 Cicatricial Stricture.—Cicatricial narrowing of the oesophagus may follow the healing of tuberculous or syphilitic ulcers, or injury by burns or by the lodging of a foreign body in the tube. It may be annular or involve a considerable length of the tube, and it occurs most frequently near the larynx or the stomach. A stricture causes gradually increasing difficulty in swallowing until regurgitation finally results. The oesophagus above the stricture may become dilated and food may be retained for some time before it is rejected, being partly digested by the saliva in the mean time. The diagnosis from hysterical spasm or obstruction by a tumor or an aneu- rism may occasion some difficulty, but the history of a previous injury or of syphilitic disease is in favor of the presence of a cicatrix. Careful examination should always be made for signs of aneurism. The situation of a stricture can sometimes be determined by auscultation over the back while the patient swallows some water, a peculiar gurgle being heard in- stead of the gentle sound normally produced by the descending fluid. The stricture may be examined by instruments similar to those employed in the urethra—flexible bulbous and cylindrical bougies of proper length. The distance from the incisor teeth to the entrance of the oesophagus is about six inches in the adult, and to the cardiac orifice about sixteen inches. To pass the bougies the patient should be seated facing the surgeon, the head slightly bent backward, and a gag between the teeth. The surgeon depresses the base of the tongue gently with the finger, along which he passes the bougie after dipping it in warm water. The bougies should have blunt points, and must be used with great gentleness, for the oesophagus has frequently been perforated and the pleura wounded by these instruments. Treatment.—Cicatricial strictures of the oesophagus may be treated by dilatation with bougies in the majority of cases. When the stricture has become iinpassable it is necessary to perform a gastrotomy either in order to feed the patient or as a temporary procedure to get a bougie through the stricture, for it is sometimes j)ossible to pass a bougie upward from the stomach when none will go through from the mouth. If a fine bougie can be passed and a silk thread drawn through the stricture, the latter may be nicked by drawing the thread to and fro, as suggested by Abbe, and a larger bougie can then be passed. When the stricture has become fairly patent to bougies, the gastric fistula may be closed. Cicatricial strictures have occa- sionally been divided with instruments on the same principle as ure- throtomy, but the operation is dangerous and has fallen into disuse. They may also be treated by permanent tubage. (See page 792.) Hysterical Spasm.—Spasmodic stricture of the oesophagus most fre- quently occurs in women about the age of thirty or thirty-five, and is usually associated with other symptoms of hysteria, although it may be the sole sign of that condition. The spasm is sometimes caused by a reflex irritation due to the presence of wax in the ear or to some irritation of the nose or throat, and can then be remedied by correcting these conditions. In other cases no cause can be found, and a complete cure is difficult to obtain, although they generally improve under systematic dilatation. A characteristic feature of these spasmodic strictures, like those of the urethra, is that they yield more readily to a full-sized bougie with a blunt end than to a very fine and pointed