834 CHAPTER XXIX. INJURIES AND DISEASES OP THE EAR. Congenital Defects of the Ear.—These may involve the auricle, the external auditory meatus, the middle ear, or the internal ear. Congenital defects of the auricle may be unilateral or bilateral, and result from imperfect development of the visceral arches, consisting in super- numerary auricles or imperfect development of the auricle, associated with imperfect development of the auditory meatus, the bony canal, and the tym- panic ring. These defects are often associated with impaired hearing. The auditory canal may be entirely absent, and in such cases the deformed auricle is apt to be very movable, and is not situated in its normal position, being nearer the cheek or the neck. Congenital fistula of the ear, which arises from arrested closure of the first visceral cleft, is a deformity which is occasionally seen. It consists of a deep fossa or a small fistulous opening, which may be symmetrical, and occupies a position in front of the tragus or the helix, or in the concha; the fistula often extends parallel to the meatus, but leads towards the pharynx, and occasionally discharges a watery fluid or pus. Treatment.—Supernumerary auricles may exist without marked im- pairment of hearing, and the removal of these appendages may be under- taken for cosmetic reasons. Imperfect development of the auricle, if not accompanied by loss of hearing, requires no special treatment, but if asso- ciated with diminished hearing power and partial occlusion of the meatus, a plastic operation to enlarge the meatus and expose the auditory canal may be undertaken, with occasional good results. In cases where no meatus exists and the malformed auricle is displaced, the auditory canal and the tympanic cavity are in all probability absent, and no operative treatment can be beneficial. Congenital fistula, if not accompanied by pain and purulent discharge, needs no treatment, but if the opposite conditions are present, cauterization or antiseptic injections may be followed by permanent closure of the sinus. INJUKIES AND DISEASES OF THE AUKICLE. Wounds of the Auricle.—These may be incised or lacerated, or may result from bites of animals; a not infrequent injury of this appendage occurs from an ear-ring being forcibly pulled from the ear, causing a cleft of the lobule. Treatment.—In wounds of the auricle the separated parts should be accurately approximated by the use of sutures, care being taken to bring together injured portions of the cartilage, so that the shape of the ear shall be preserved as far as possible. An antiseptic dressing is applied, and, on account of the great vascularity of the part, prompt healing usually