332 TREATMENT OF SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. treatment is demanded. In secondary hemorrhage from a wound, digital or instrumental pressure should be made above and below the wound, and if the bleeding be from a vessel of one of the extremities, an elastic tube should be placed around the limb some distance above the wound, to con- trol it temporarily. The wound should be opened and blood-clots turned out, and it should be enlarged, if necessary, to expose the source of the bleed- ing, and if it is found that the hemorrhage has arisen from the distal end of the vessel, this should be secured by a ligature applied to the vessel at a point where its walls are in a healthy condition ; if the bleeding has arisen from the proximal end of the vessel, this should be ligatured in the same manner with silk or catgut. The wound should next be carefully cleared of blood-clots, and freely irrigated with bichloride solution to render it sterile. If the hemorrhage recurs after a few days, the same procedures should be adopted. If the bleeding again recurs, the surgeon should ligate the artery of supply at some distance above the wound, or, in the case of the extremity, amputate the limb above the source of bleeding; this latter procedure, which seems a most radical one, is attended with better results in cases of repeated secondary hemorrhages than the application of a ligature to the vessel above the source of the hemorrhage, for it removes the infected ves- sel and surrounding tissues and leaves a clean wound, and at the same time the artery diminishes in size as the demand for blood to the part is lessened by the removal of the limb. In certain cases of secondary hemorrhage the vessel and surrounding tis- sues are found in such a sloughing condition that a ligature cannot be made to hold, or the vessel may be injured at a point where a ligature cannot be applied ; in such cases the actual cautery may be employed, which produces firm temporary closure of the vessel and at the same time sterilizes the wound ; if this is not used, firm packing with antiseptic gauze may be re- sorted to, and the packing, when it is possible, should be covered with an antiseptic dressing held firmly in place by a bandage. The packing should not be disturbed for some days, and then should be carefully removed, and the wound should be repacked in the same manner. These methods of treat- ment, which are resorted to only when ligatures cannot be applied, are occa- sionally successful in arresting the bleeding, and should not be lost sight of. In secondary venous hemorrhage firm compression may first be re- sorted to, and if this fails to arrest the bleeding the wound should be opened and the bleeding vein exposed and ligatured or cauterized, or the hemor- rhage may be arrested by firmly packing the wound with antiseptic gauze. At the same time that any of these various procedures is practised for the control of secondary hemorrhage the patient should be most carefully watched by a skilful nurse, and should be placed upon the constitutional treatment which has been previously described as of value in cases of hemorrhage. Simultaneous Wounds of the Main Artery and the Main Vein of a Limb.—These are most serious injuries, from the risk of gan- grene. If the main artery and main vein are both injured, both should be secured by ligatures, and if the collateral circulation is promptly estab- lished, gangrene will not occur. In a case of simultaneous wound of the main artery and main vein, if the wound of the vein is not extensive, it