785 TUMORS OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. The most common neoplasm of the salivary glands is the so-called mixed tumor, which consists of fibrous tissue, fat, cartilage, and adenomatous tissue. It arises from the remains of the congenital branchial tissues, but is seldom apparent before puberty. These tumors are most common in the parotid, and grow slowly until they reach the size of an English walnut or a hen's egg, when they are apt to become stationary. They form hard rounded masses, often lobulated, sometimes almost pedunculated, standing out abruptly from the side of the face. If cysts develop in them they be- come elastic and grow more rapidly. The skin over them usually remains unaltered and not adherent. They may reach the size of a man's head, and when large they generally cause facial paralysis by pressure upon the facial nerve. In a certain number of cases they degenerate into sarcoma, and therefore they should be removed while they are small, if it can be done without injury to the facial nerve. They are well encapsulated, and it .is not necessary to remove the surrounding tissues. Malignant tumors appear in the salivary glands, but the parotid is more liable to both sarcoma and carcinoma than the other glands, the sub- lingual being almost exempt. Sarcoma generally develops by the degenera- tion of one of the mixed tumors, and therefore the tumor is of rather long duration, growing very slowly at first. Carcinoma appears after middle life, and forms rather fiat tumors, infiltrating the entire substance of the gland and lifting the lobe of the auricle. They often occasion severe pain in the ear. The majority are rather slow in growth, but some develop rapidly. Before they are recognized they have generally involved the deepest parts of the gland, and they recur even after apparently thorough extirpation. Treatment.—Extirpation is the only possible treatment, and in removing the parotid gland for malignant disease the facial nerve must be entirely disregarded, for every portion of the gland must be removed, including the lobe which winds around the ramus of the jaw. In order to make a com- plete removal of this portion of the gland and to control the dissection properly, it will generally be found necessary to cut away about half an inch of the posterior border of the ramus and of the angle of the jaw with the rongeur, after the superficial part of the gland has been dissected up and turned backward so as to uncover that portion of the bone. THE TONSILS. Inflammations.—The tonsils are liable to many superficial inflamma- tory conditions, such as follicular tonsillitis and diphtheria. Secondary syphilitic ulcers are also frecpient, and in the tertiary stage gummata may form large tumors. Abscess.—Suppurative inflammation of the tonsil re- sulting in abscess, however, most frequently comes under the care of the surgeon. While the abscess may occasionally form in the substance of the tonsil, it generally lies in the cellular tissue external to the gland. The swelling is sometimes so great that the tonsil projects across the middle line of the pharynx, and the soft palate bulges forward. There are fever and great difficulty in swallowing. The pain may be severe, and the patient may be unable to open his mouth. Sometimes the condition is bilateral, adding 50