DIAGNOSIS OF VESICAL CALCULUS. 1102 position a stone which may be lying in a pouch at the base of the bladder behind an enlarged prostate is readily detected. (Fig. 844.) Finally, the beak of the instrument is made to sweep over the surface of the bladder in all directions, to discover a stone which might be encysted in a lateral pouch. Lifting the base of the bladder by the hnger in the rectum, or depressing the fundus by external pressure, is some- times useful. If a stone is present, when the beak of the instrument touches it a sharp metallic click will be perceptible to the fingers and also to the ear. When a stone has been found, its size can be estimated by noting the points where the meatus is on the shaft when the searcher first Searcher touching a stone behind the prostate, Strikes it and when it Ceases to do SO assisted by a finger inserted in the rectum. (Ag- on being. drawn forward, the distance new.) a ' between the two points giving its diam- eter. The surface of the stone is examined by passing the searcher over it to determine if it is rough or smooth. In some cases the examination is very simple, but in others even the most experienced may fail in detecting the stone. Negative evidence is of no value unless repeated examinations are made by an expert. Sometimes the use of the evacuating tube and aspirator, as in litholapaxy, will detect a small calculus which eludes the sound. A stone which is in a sac or pouch may be completely out of reach of the searcher (Figs. 845 and 846), and, on the other hand, an incrustation of the bladder-wall with phosphatic salts may resemble a calculus, and it is in such obscure cases as these that the cystoscope is most useful. An anaesthetic may Fig. 845. Stone encysted near base of bladder. (Agnew.) Stone encysted near fundus of bladder. (Agnew.) be given, or cocaine employed locally, for the examination, if the patient is very nervous or very sensitive, but in ordinary cases it will not be necessary. Occasionally a stone develops behind a urethral stricture, and the latter will need treatment before the searcher can be introduced into the bladder. Fig. 844.