8 IMMUNITY AGAINST BACTERIA. staphylococcus which would cause suppuration and death from septicaemia in twenty-four hours, while fifteen times the amount of another specimen, which was apparently identical in other respects, failed to produce any effect either locally or generally. These variations in virulence occur both in natural and in artificial cultures of the germs, although much more marked in the former, and often without any assignable reason. Probably in some cases the result is to be explained by the confusion of various species of bac- teria, but the majority must be due to variations of one species caused by differences in the soil in which they grew or by some other external influ- ences. The occurrence of more than one species of bacteria in a culture sometimes increases and sometimes diminishes the virulence of their effect, according as the two encourage or retard each other's growth, just as is seen when two of the higher plants are sown in one field. The pneumococcus is antagonistic to the bacillus anthracis, as is also the streptococcus of ery- sipelas. The virulence of diphtheria is increased by the presence of the streptococcus, and the latter is more virulent when accompanied by B. coli or B. prodigiosus. It has also been proved that the soil in which the inocu- lation takes place is of prime importance for its success. The presence of dead or injured tissue at the place of inoculation favors germ-growth. Bacterial growth is favored by the presence of blood-clot or foreign sub- stances, and, above all, by some of the substances in which the germ has already been growing at the time of its inoculation and containing some of its toxines. Thus, a certain amount of pyogenic germs may be introduced into the peritoneal cavity without effect, and sterilized potato can also be inserted without exciting inflammation ; but if the two are introduced to- gether, the bacteria multiply at once in the potato and then easily invade the organism from that base of supply or storehouse of energy. In regard to blood-clot, it is necessary to alter somewhat the older views in regard to its favoring the infection of wounds, for recent clinical experience shows that even suppurating wounds can be made to heal with primary union by the method of filling their cavities with blood and closing the wounds with- out drainage ; and it has been shown that under such circumstances, as well as in the coagulated blood used in laboratory experiments, the pyogenic germs remained alive, but did not multiply. This arrest of development may be due to the germicidal or germ-inhibiting powers of the serum, and very likely depends upon a limitation in the quantity of germs. It certainly depends upon freedom from the bacteria of putrefaction, for decomposing blood is one of the most infectious of substances. Immunity.—An animal which is able to resist the invasion of any species of bacteria is said to be refractory to or immune against that variety of germ. In many cases this immunity is constant in certain animals for certain bacteria : thus, gonorrhoea and syphilis cannot be transmitted to the lower animals, and man is refractory to the virus of mouse-septicoemia and many other diseases. In many infectious diseases one attack protects an individual for a lifetime, and one form of disease may even protect in future from another and more virulent form, as vaccination protects against small- pox. Pasteur supposed that the bacteria in their growth exhausted from the body some material necessary for their existence, so that none subse-