AMPUTATIONS OF THE TOES. 289 Fig. 223. Amputation of toes by racket-shaped incision and flap method. (After Rotter.) Relation of the metatarso- phalangeal joint to web of the toes. (Stimson.) to amputate a toe in the continuity of the phalanx, this is accomplished in the same manner as in the case of the fingers, by a short oval flap from the dorsal surface, and a long one from the plantar aspect of the toe. (Fig. 222.) It is well to remember that the web of the toes is con- FlG- 222- siderably below the position of the metatarso-phalangeal joint. (Fig. 223.) Metatarsophalangeal Amputation of the Toes. —A single toe is usually re- moved by an incision on the dorsal surface, beginning a little above the joint, and carried downward for about an inch ; the incision, which is made down to the bone, then diverges into the web, and is carried under the toe and back on the other side to the point of divergence. (Fig. 222. ) Amputation of Two Adjoining Toes.—A dorsal incision should be made in the intermetatarsal space, just below the level of the joint, and carried down to the beginning of the web, then over the toe to the beginning of the adjoining web, then under the plantar surface of both toes in the line of the digito-plantar fold, through the web, and back to the point of divergence ; the disarticulation of the toes is then effected, and, after controlling bleeding by the use of ligatures, the flaps are brought together with sutures. Amputation of the Great Toe.—Amputation of the great toe may be accomplished by meaus of the racket-shaped incision employed in amputa- tion of the other toes (Fig. 222), or by means of the lateral flap. In the latter case the knife is made to enter the joint by cutting through the commissure, aud the operation is completed by carrying the knife through the joint and along the outer side of the toe, forming a flap of the recpxired size. The great toe may also be amputated by means of a short dorsal flap and a long plantar flap. In amputating the great toe, unless care is taken to make the flaps sufficiently voluminous, difficulty may be found in providing sufficient cov- ering for the expanded anterior extremity of the metatarsal bone ; this should be covered by the flaps without making tension upon them, for it is better not to resect the end of this bone, as it interferes with the base of support for the foot. Amputation of all the Toes.—It sometimes happens that by reason of crushes, frost-bites, or burns the removal of all the toes is required. This is accomplished by grasping the toes with the hand and making an incision across the phalangeal portion of the foot, from its outer to its iuner border, as nearly as possible on a line with the free edge of the interdigital 19