FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR. 485 fractures of the femur, or iu indented fractures in which the irregular pro- jections of the fragments are interlocked. Crepitus may be easily elicited by rotating the thigh. In fracture of the shaft of the femur the disability is marked, the patient usually being unable to move the limb. Fig. 407. |I!!IH>^*~— TII!!!lllllll!II|JIII!|lll!! Double inclined plane. (Agnew.) Prognosis.—In cases of simple fracture, without complications, a good result generally follows. The results of this fracture in children are usually favorable as regards recovery with very little shortening. In adults, how- ever, a certain amount of shortening always occurs, varying from a quarter of an inch to an inch and a half. Agnew states that in fracture of the femur, except iu cases of children, Fig. 408. an appreciable shortening always results. Treatment.—In the treatment of this injury the dressings are applied so as to diminish as far as pos- sible the shortening, and to prevent angular or rota- tory displacement of the fragments. The patient should be placed in bed upon a firm mattress; an extension apparatus of adhesive plaster is applied, and a weight is attached to this, as previously de- scribed under fractures of the neck of the femur. Lateral support is given to the limb by the applica- tion of two wooden splints, the outer or longer one extending from the axilla to the foot, the inner or shorter one extending from the groin to the foot. The upper extremity of each should be about six inches in width, and the lower extremity about three and a half inches. The splints should be wrapped in a splint-cloth which extends from the foot to the groin, and after this has been placed under the limb they are fixed in their positions, the short one to the inner side, the long one to the outer side, of the limb. Between the limb and the splints bran-bags should be interposed ; the outer one should be long enough to extend from the axilla to the foot, and the inner one from the groin to the foot. The splints and bran-bags should next be held in position by five or six strips of bandage Deformity in fracture of the shaft of the femur. (Ag- new.)