943 GASTROENTEROSTOMY. Fig. 776. Fig. 775. cavity, and that its performance requires somewhat more time than the ordinary operation, the condition of many of these patients being so critical that a tedious operation is a serious drawback. We have, however, suc- ceeded in performing it under cocaine anaesthesia with perfectly satisfactory results, and the length of the operation is then of less importance. The catheter is removed at the end of a week, and is then introduced only at the time of feeding. The leak- age from the sinus is very slight and is easily absorbed by a dressing, no pad being required. G-astro- enterostomy consists in making an open- ing between the stomach and the intestine, and is employed in cases where there is great pyloric ob- Diagram showing the tube in the fold in the wall of the stomach : T, cross- section of the tube ; W, W, wall of the stomach folded over the tube, and about to be retained by tightening the stitch S. (Andrews.) Showing the tube in position : A, the part in- side of the stomach, indi- cated by dotted lines; B, the part surrounded by the folds of the stom- ach-wall ; C, the part outside the stomach. (Andrews.) Diagram of the course of the tube in the stomach- walls : 7, the internal orifice of the new canal; E, the point of emergence from the surrounding stomach- wall ; P, a conical plug in the outer end of the tube. (Andrews.) struction. It may be performed by Murphy's button or by suture, and on the anterior or the posterior wall. Operation with Murphy's Button.—The stomach is exposed by a median incision, or by an incision through the left rectus muscle, or at the outer border of the latter. When the stomach is very much retracted it may be necessary to add to this a transverse incision in either direction, according to circumstances. The stomach is found and drawn into the wound, a point being selected upon its anterior surface free from blood- vessels and from disease. A loop of small intestine is drawn up in the lower angle of the wound and a point selected about three feet from the beginning of the jejunum, the intervening loop being left in order to turn around the transverse colon. It is important to recognize the exact situa- tion of the point selected for the anastomosis, for if the opening is made too far down in the intestine the result may be disastrous from lack of nutri- tion. A loop of bowel, from six to twelve inches long, is isolated by two strips of gauze tied around the gut at each end, the contents of the loop