ABSCESS IN HIP-DISEASE. 622 Fig. 549. buckles are fastened to the extension bands, which are attached to strips secured to the foot-piece ; after being applied, extension is made by the ratchet. During the course of treatment by any of these forms of splints abscess may develop, which will interfere with their use while the abscess is under treatment. The length of time treatment should be kept up, either by re- cumbency and extension or by splints, is often a matter of the greatest diffi- culty to decide, and it is a safe rule to continue it even after it seems not to be absolutely necessary, rather than to remove the fixation or traction apparatus before the course of the disease is arrested. No definite time can be given, months or even years of treatment being often required ; and when the disease seems to be arrested, as indicated by the absence of character- istic symptoms and by the presence of firm ankylosis, the apparatus should be removed, and the patient should have some simple fixation apparatus applied for a few months ; after which this may be removed, and the patient allowed to use the limb carefully in locomotion. If pain or tenderness returns, it is evident that the disease has not been cured, and the apparatus should be resumed. Abscess in Hip-Disease.—This is one of the most troublesome complications that are liable to de- velop during the course of the disease, and may occur at any time except in the very early stage. The most common seat of abscess in connection with hip-dis- ease is upon the anterior aspect of the joint (Fig. 549), the tuberculous debris finding its way to the sur- face between the tensor vaginae femoris and sartorius muscles; it may work its way posteriorly and reach the surface in the gluteal fold, or the pus may open into the bursa beneath the psoas muscle over the front of the femur and find its way into the pelvis under Poupart's ligament. It may also perforate the anterior portion of the capsule and pass down the inner part of the thigh beneath the adductor muscles. Abscess which starts in the acetabulum is apt to perforate the bone and form a collection under the iliacus muscle ; pelvic abscess may ascend under the muscles and point under Poupart's ligament, may open into the rectum, or may enter the bursa under the tendon of the psoas muscle and make its way to the inner aspect of the thigh. Treatment.—Abscesses may form slowly or rapidly, and sometimes assume such a size that they interfere with the use of apparatus. As soon as it is evident that pus is present, this should be removed, by aspiration or incision. Gibney holds that the most satisfactory results follow repeated aspiration or small incisions; we have, however, seen the best results from small incisions followed by injection of the cavity with iodoform emulsion and closure of the wound by a compress of gauze, this procedure being repeated as often as the cavity refills. It often happens Abscess in hip-disease.