FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 692 disease, never suffered any pain, and finally died after a week's illness from meningitis due to infection of the ulcer. Epithelioma may, however, occur early in life, and we have observed it in a girl of eight years, in whom it began in the scar of a burn received at the age of two years, which had constantly remained ulcerated, never entirely healing over, the malignant changes probably commencing two years before we saw her. In this case also the epithelioma involved almost the entire scalp, and had destroyed a large portion of the bone. Bruns has reported a similar case. Unless malignant disease is seen very early, there is little hope of a cure, because both forms are apt to involve the bone, and it is then almost impossible to eradicate them completely, although the lymphatics may not be infected early. Osteoma.—The bones of the skull are peculiarly liable to osteomata, which form on their external surface (very rarely on the internal) and are usually of the eburnated variety. They are most common on the frontal bone, and are generally small, flat, hard tumors, which are easily recognized. They are of little or no clinical significance, but may require removal on account of deformity or discomfort. They may be removed easily by the chisel, but the base in the diploe should be thoroughly chiselled out in order to avoid recurrence. Primary malignant disease of the bones of the skull is not very common, the tumor generally being secondary to tumors in other situations or to tumors in the dura mater or in the brain itself. Sar- comata originating in the diploe are sometimes covered with a thin shell of bone, which can be recognized by "egg-shell crackling," even when they attain a considerable size. In some cases secondary carcinoma forms cyst-like fluctuating masses filled with a clear jelly-like fluid, so that the diagnosis of sebaceous cyst may be made unless the existence of the primary tumor is known. Although operations for cancer of the skull are generally useless, some cures have been effected by extensive resection of the bones, even when it has also been necessary to remove a portion of adherent dura mater. Pneumatocele.—Limited sacs in the connective tissue containing air are not infrequently found on the head, and the ordinary subcutaneous em- physema, originating in a penetrating wound of the air-passages or lungs, may extend to the head or may arise from perforating wounds of the frontal sinuses or other air-containing sinuses. Spontaneous perforation of the mas- toid cells occurs in rare instances, in which case air may be driven into the surrounding tissue by foi'cible expiratory efforts. Treatment.—Emphysema is to be kept down by a firm bandage and a pad over the point of escape of the air, if it be accessible. The air-sacs are to be incised, packed, and allowed to heal by granulation. FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. Fractures of the skull are more naturally considered with injuries of the head than with fractures of other bones, for they are chiefly important on account of the liability to complication with injury to the brain. Mechanics of Fractures of the Skull.—The mechanics of fractures of the skull would be naturally supposed to depend in large part upon its shape and construction. According to Felizet, the skull may be considered as