AMPUTATION OF THE ARM. 283 Fig. 211. across the anterior aspect of the limb, and is carried back to the olecranon process. (Fig. 211.) The incision involves only the skin and the cellular tissue. The flap having been dissected up for a short distance, the soft parts close to the joint are transfixed; the muscles are cut obliquely, so that an anterior flap is formed. This flap is held up, the bones are disarticulated, the attachment of the triceps tendon to the olecranon is divided, and any tissues which have escaped division along the posterior aspect of the limb are severed. After the vessels have been secured, the flap is turned over and sutured, and a curved cicatrix on the posterior aspect of the limb results. Lateral Flap Method.—Amputations at the elbow may also be performed by the lateral flap method, in which the flaps are cut either from without inward or by transfixion. An external flap three inches in length is made on the outer side of the arm, starting from a point a finger-breadth below the bend of the elbow, by transfixion or by cutting from with- out inward. A shorter internal flap is next cut in the same manner, and the joint is opened and the disarticulation ef- fected. The circular method may also be employed in this amputation. (Fig. 212.) Amputation of the Arm.—The arm may be ampu- tated at any point below the attachment of the muscles at the axilla by the circular, the oval, the transfixion, or Teale's method. Although these various systematic methods of removing the arm are often practised, it is sometimes found impossible, from the character of the injury, to employ any of them, and in such cases flaps have to Incision for ellip- tical amputation at the elbow. (After Treves.) Fig. 212. Fig. 213. be fashioned according to the tissue which is present, the rule, however, being to save as much of the arm as possible. It is always considered advisable to save even a small portion of the bone, which may consist only of the head and a portion of the neck of the humerus, as by so doing the rotundity of the shoulder is preserved, and the deformity is not so marked as it would be if the arm were am- putated at the shoulder-joint. An artificial arm can also be better adapted to a stunip of some length. To control hemorrhage during amputation of the arm at its middle or lower third the tourniquet with a compress should be applied along the inner edge of the biceps or coraco-brachialis muscle, or the elastic strap of Esinarch's apparatus may be employed. When, however, the arm is ampu- Circular amputation at the elbow. (After Esmarch.) Stump after circular amputation at the el- bow. (After Esmarch.)