20 305 CHAPTER XIV. SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Certain affections of the skin present themselves to the surgeon, either independently or as complications of surgical conditions, and they will be briefly described. The various pathological lesions which occur in the skin are given special names. Erythema is a more or less extensive spot or patch of redness in the skin, in which the redness disappears on pressure. A macule is a spot or patch of dark color which does not disappear on pressure, being due to hemorrhage or pigment. A petechial spot is a minute red point, which looks like a flea-bite. A papule is an elevation of the skin, flat or acuminated, without any free fluid or pus. A wheal is a large papule. A rather thick, large papule is called a tubercle, but this term is misleading on account of its common association with tubercu- losis, with which these lesions have no necessary connection, and it would be better to use the word nodule instead of tubercle to designate them. A vesicle is an accumulation of serum beneath the epidermis, commonly known as a blister, and called a bulla when very large. A pustule is a small collection of pus in the skin or simply beneath the epidermis. We have already described furuncle and carbuncle in speaking of cellulitis. Dermatitis is an inflammation of the skin from any cause. It may be acute or chronic, and exists in all grades, from mere congestion of the surface to vesiculation, pustulation, general suppuration, and sloughing. Fibrinous false membranes may be formed. Dermatitis is usually seen in surgical cases as the result of irritating dressings or discharges, or is pro- duced intentionally for counter-irritation. In all surgical measures, particu- larly in these days of vigorous antisepsis, it is well to emphasize the neces- sity for avoiding the production of dermatitis, for the condition will be a serious drawback to the comfort of the patient, and it may jeopardize the aseptic course of the wound by the serous discharge from the skin. Derma- titis generally subsides, sometimes being followed by descpiamation of the epidermis ; but occasionally an obstinate eczema may be set up. Treatment.—The milder forms are to be treated by wet dressings of mild solutions or plain sterilized water, or by ointments of boric acid or zinc oxide, or by simply powdering the skin with bismuth, chalk, lyeo- podium, calomel, or zinc oxide. The application of ointments or powder will protect the skin from irritation by wound discharges, feces, or urine, and prevent dermatitis. The same precaution may be employed on the surrounding skin when it is necessary to apply very strong antiseptics. The dermatitis due to the poison ivy (Ehus toxicodendron) is worthy of note, as it might possibly be confounded with erysipelas, although the char-