939 STENOSIS OF THE PYLORUS. cent, of the eases according to Weir and Foote, but, as a rule, there are suffi- cient symptoms to make a diagnosis possible. When the gastric symptoms are clear and the patient feels a sudden acute pain in the epigastrium, often associated with severe collapse, with or without vomiting, which is followed by local tenderness, rise of temperature, and the development of tympanites, a correct diagnosis is easy. Vomiting is present in about two-thirds of the cases of perforation. The dulness on percussion over the liver may be lost, owing to the escape of gas into the peritoneal cavity. (See page 930.) The pain, however, may first be felt in any other part of the abdomen, and even the tenderness may be more marked in the iliac region than in the epigas- trium. Occasionally profound septic poisoning accompanies very mild local symptoms, but, as a rule, perforation of the stomach produces a frank general peritonitis or a localized abscess, and peritoneal sepsis occurs less frequently than after intestinal perforation. The perforation may take place in that part of the stomach not covered by peritoneum, and au extraperitoneal abscess may form under the diaphragm or between the diaphragm and the liver. These cases naturally run a slower course, and if the diagnosis can be made before septicaemia sets in, a cure may be expected. A few cases of perfo- ration of the stomach have recovered without operation. The prognosis after operation depends altogether upon the interval of time which elapses between the perforation and the laparotomy. Weir has shown that when the operation was done within twelve hours the majority of the cases were saved, but in later operations only about one-fifth recovered. Treatment.—A median incision is made above the navel, and a trans- verse incision at right angles to the first through the left rectus muscle may be added later if necessary in order to obtain sufficient room. The stomach must be well drawn down, as the perforation will usually be found high up on the lesser curvature. The posterior wall may be examined by tearing through the mesocolon. When the perforation is found, it should be closed with Lembert sutures. It is unnecessary to excise the edges of the ulcer, and the condition of the patient rarely allows a prolonged operation. The abscess must be thoroughly washed out and drained, and if general peri- tonitis is present it must be treated as already described. Stenosis of the Pylorus.—Narrowing of the pylorus may be caused by external compression, by cicatricial contraction due to healed ulcers on the inner surface, or by the growth of tumors in the stomach-wall at this point. It is said that there may also be a spasmodic contraction of the sphincter muscle. Mechanical dilatation of the stomach often results in these cases, but in malignant disease this dilatation seldom occurs, because of the short duration of life. The symptoms of simple stenosis of the pylo- rus are merely those of obstruction, as shown by vomiting, usually coming on some little time after a meal, and occasionally recurring at regular inter- vals of two or three days. The ejected matter consists of food, and some- times contains undigested particles of food taken several days previously. The vomiting is preceded by signs of discomfort and fulness in the stomach, but there is no nausea, and the patient looks upon it as a relief. The treatment of pyloric stricture depends upon the cause of the nar- rowing. Loreta's method consists in stretching the pylorus by performing