913 CYSTS OF THE BREAST. deeply than normal, and a careful search will show some places in which the epithelial cells have begun to penetrate the basement membrane, as in true epithelioma. One theory as to Paget's disease assumes that it begins as an eczema, becoming malignant from long-continued irritation ; another theory asserts more correctly that the disease is an epithelioma from the first, beginning in the mouths of the lacteal ducts (Thin). It should be noted that an ordinary epithelioma of the nipple also occurs in rare cases. The diagnosis of Paget's disease from simple eczema of the nipple and ulcerative processes due to infection can generally be made by the strict limitation of the ulceration to the nipple and by the obstinately chronic character of the disease. The prognosis in cases left without treatment is hopeless. While local treatment may be of value in the very earliest stages, the only rational course after ulceration has begun consists in the typical removal of the entire breast. Cysts.—Cystic degeneration of tumors of the breast is quite common, but true cysts of the gland form only two per cent, of its tumors, according to Gross. They are of three kinds — epithelial, lymphatic, and parasitic (hydatid). The epithelial cysts may be divided into the so-called involu- tion cysts and retention cysts. The changes in the breast associated with its atrophy after lactation or in old age produce involution cysts similar to such cysts in other glandular organs. In these cysts, which are always of small size, the atrophying tissue retracts and draws on the walls of the acini, which distend under the traction, and at the same time it obstructs the canals and causes dilatation. These cysts usually have very thin walls, contain a thin serous fluid, and appear as tense swellings half an inch or so in diame- ter, which are easily felt when directly beneath the skin, but may resemble solid tumors if they are deep in the breast. Very seldom is there a dis- charge from the nipple. If the cysts are small, multiple, and deeply placed, the breast may very readily be supposed to be the seat of cancer. Simple evacuation of the contents of the single cysts by a hypodermic syringe eon- firms the diagnosis and frequently effects a cure. Retention cysts are caused by obstruction of some of the lacteal ducts by inflammatory swelling, by a cicatrix, or by the growth of a tumor. In these cysts the cavity is made up of one or more acini, and may include an entire lobe. The cavity may be single or divided into several chambers. The contents of the cyst may be a milky fluid, or may resemble butter or cheese, galactocele; or it may be serous or bloody and dark, being discolored by haemoglobin. These cysts sometimes attain a large size, especially the galactoceles—cysts holding several ounces, or even nine pounds, of fluid, having been reported, but they are seldom as large as a hen's egg. They are seen in the active period of the gland in middle life, and frequently follow' pregnancy. A discharge from the nipple is found in about one-fifth of the cases. The cysts are single in two-thirds of the cases, and the lacteal cysts are always single, according to Gross. They seldom become inflamed. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of retention cysts is tolerably easy if they are fairly large, by their tension or fluctuation, slow development, and lack of invasion of surrounding parts. The skin is not adherent unless they become inflamed, and the nipple is not retracted, although it may be pushed aside 58