SPICA BANDAGE OF THE GROIN. 182 chest and the shoulder, crossing the previous shoulder turn, and then be conducted down in front of the arm to the elbow, then carried around this, and backward obliquely over the back of the chest to the axilla of the sound side; these turns overlying one another exactly should be re- peated until three sets of turns have been made. (Fig. 113.) After ap- Fig. 114. Third roller of Desault's bandage. Arm and chest bandage. portion of the forearm should be supported in a sling suspended from the neck. Arm and Chest Bandage.—In applying this bandage, the arm having been placed against the side, with a folded towel between the arm and the chest, the initial extremity of the bandage is placed upon the spine at a point opposite the elbow-joint, and is fixed by a turn or two passing around the arm and chest. The bandage is then continued by making- ascending spiral turns covering the arm and chest until the axilla is reached. At this point the bandage is carried through the axilla and over the back of the chest to the opposite shoidder, then conducted down the front of the arm to the elbow, passed between the elbow and the body, and carried up the back of the arm to the shoulder, then conducted obliquely across the front of the chest and secured upon the back. (Fig. 114.) Ascending Spica Bandage of the Groin.—In applying this bandage the initial extremity of the roller should be placed obliquely upon the upper part of the thigh, and the bandage should be carried around and behind the limb and forward around the outer side of the thigh to the abdomen; it should then be carried obliquely across the lower part of the abdomen to a point just below the crest of the ilium, conducted transversely around the back of the pelvis to a corresponding point upon the opposite side, and then brought obliquely downward to the groin, over the inner portion of the thigh, and carried around the limb, crossing the starting-turn in the middle line of the thigh. These turns should be