440 FRACTURES OF THE RIBS. Symptoms.—The most prominent symptoms of fractures of the ribs are diminished respiratory movements upon the injured side and pain at the seat of injury, which is increased by any attempt to take a full breath, or by coughing. Crepitus may in many cases be obtained by placing the hand over the seat of injury and directing the patient to take a full breath. "When the pleura has been punctured and the lung has been in- jured, emphysema of the cellular tissues over the region of the fracture can usually be felt, and in cases of injury of the lung haemoptysis may also be present. Prognosis.—In uncomplicated cases the prognosis is favorable. Iu compound fractures, however, or in those which are accompanied by injury of the pleura or the lung, although many cases recover, these injuries are most serious ones. Treatment.—A satisfactory temporary dressing for fractures of the ribs consists in surrounding the chest with a broad binder of stout linen or muslin, which restricts the respiratory movements and relieves the patient's discomfort, but cannot be recommended as a permanent dressing, as it also restricts the respiratory movements upon the uninjured side of the chest. The best permanent dressing for fractures of the ribs consists in envelop- ing the side of the chest on which the rib or ribs are broken with broad strips of adhesive plaster. (Fig. 338.) For the method of applying these strips see page 194. This dressing usually gives the patient much comfort, and the strips need not be removed until they become slightly loosened, usually at the end of a week or ten days, when they should be reapplied in the same manner. The dressing for fractures of the ribs is usually dis- pensed with at the end of three or four weeks, as repair is well advanced by this time. In the repair of fractures of the ribs a considerable amount of callus is deposited around the seat of fracture, and in fractures of adja- cent ribs they may be permanently bound together by callus. (Fig. 339.) Fig. 339. Dressing for fracture of the ribs. Union of adjacent ribs by callus. (Malgaigne.)