835 TUMORS OF THE AURICLE. Fig. 72 takes place. Clefts of the lobule if seen early should be approximated with sutures, but if healing has occurred before the case comes under the care of the surgeon, leaving a fissure in the lobule, the edges of the cleft should be freshened and approximated by sutures. Frost-Bite of the Auricle.—Frost-bites of varying degrees of severity are common accidents in cold climates, and in severe cases, if sudden reaction takes place, gangrene of the auricle is apt to occur. The treatment is similar to that for severe frost-bites in other parts of the body. The greatest cau- tion should be observed to bring about reaction gradually. After reaction in these cases and in the case of superficial frost bites, the use of an ointment of ichthyol, twenty five per cent., and petrolatum, seventy-five per cent., is followed by the best results. Burns and scalds of the auricle are also often seen, and their treatment is similar to that employed in the same conditions in other parts of the body. Tumors of the Auricle.—The auricle may be the seat of various tumors, such as cysts, nsevus, epithelioma, fibroma, sarcoma, and lipoma. Keloid and fibroma following wounds of the auricle or piercing of the lobe for the application of ear-rings are not uncom- mon, and are very often seen in negroes. (Fig. 725.) The treatment of tumors of the auricle •consists in excision of the growth, the cartilage being preserved as far as possible if it is not diseased, and, if a large gap is left, skin-grafting or a plastic operation may be employed. Othematoma, or Hsematoma of the Auricle.—This consists of a cyst containing serum or blood, which results from injury to the auricle (Fig. 726), is often observed in boxers or foot-ball players, and is also common in insane patients; the term 11asylum ear" is sometimes applied to this affection. Its presence in the insane is commonly ascribed to minor injuries to the auricle, which in their depressed vascular condition cause the extravasation, or to central lesions, the restiform bodies being the portion of the brain said to be involved. The treatment of hfematoma of the auricle consists in the use of pressure and massage, or of mild counter-irritants, and aspiration may be practised with good results in some cases. It is wiser not to incise the swelling unless suppuration occurs, in which case the sac should be incised and irrigated with an antiseptic solution, and gentle pressure made by an anti- septic dressing. Under either method of treatment more or less deformity is apt to result. Prominent Auricles.—Undue prominence of the ears constitutes a marked deformity. The condition may result from the shape of the carti- Fibroma ot the auricle. Fig. 726. Hfematoma of the auricle.