1086 URETHRAL FISTULA. which has been the seat of stricture the surgeon should aim at obtaining a calibre of at least 30 French, and in a large penis of 32 or 34 French, if the calibre is to be maintained, for very full dilatation of the canal is neces- sary in order to secure complete absorption of the cicatricial tissue about it. Even larger instruments than these must be passed in individuals who are suffering from gleet, in order fully to stretch the widest portions of the canal. Urethral Fistulse.—Extravasation of urine may result in the pro- duction of fistulse, but they usually heal after thorough division of the stricture. They should, however, be sufficiently laid open for drainage or curetting. Large fistulse on the lower surface of the penis may leave very extensive gaps in the floor of the urethra and may require plastic opera- tions similar to those described for hypospadias. The perineal incision in external urethrotomy sometimes fails to close, and may necessitate a plastic operation. Spasm of the Urethra.—Spasmodic contraction of the circular mus- cular fibres surrounding the deep urethra may cause symptoms of stricture. It is even claimed by some that in the majority of cases obstruction of the deep urethra is spasmodic, but there can be no question that cicatricial stric- tures frequently occur in this region. Spasm of the urethra may be a reflex result of irritation of the mucous membrane of the canal or of the bladder, and most frequently the irritation is due to a moderate stricture anteriorly or a slight prostatitis. The spasm may be so intense as to prevent even the passage of a bougie. In some cases it is constant and persists for years, the patient never being able to make water without an effort, while in other cases it is intermittent and there are longer or shorter periods of freedom. Spasm of the urethra is to be treated by removing the cause when it can be ascertained, and by the passage of very large sounds to the bladder. In this condition a large blunt-pointed sound will often enter the bladder by steady, gentle pressure maintained for some minutes even when the intro- duction of smaller instruments is impossible, the sharp points of the latter probably irritating the muscle to closer contraction. Tumors of the urethra are rarities, the least rare being small mucous polypi. The canal is sometimes invaded by malignant disease of neighbor- ing parts, but primary cancer is too rare to require description. The polypi are recognized by endoscopic examination, and in some cases they may pro- trude from the meatus. The only symptoms they excite are slight obstruc- tion to urination and a scanty mucous discharge. They are readily removed by avulsion. INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. Malformations.—The bladder is in very rare cases entirely absent, the ureters opening into the urethra, vagina, or rectum. In the fetus the lower end of the bowel is at first in connection with a canal leading to the allan- tois, and the ureters discharge into the same passage, the first sign of the bladder being a sac-like dilatation of the allantois canal in front of the rec- tum. As development proceeds, the bladder and rectum become separated, the anus forms, and the urethra appears anteriorly, being formed as already described. Defects of development are found on both the anterior and pos-