790 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE OESOPHAGUS. one. Relapses are very frequently seen in this condition. Besides the in- ability to swallow, there is occasionally a feeling of pain or constriction in the neck. The symptoms may begin suddenly or gradually. A sudden beginning, the presence of pain, the absence of an overflow of saliva from the mouth, and the coexistence of other hysterical symptoms, enable a diag- nosis to be made. Cicatricial and cancerous strictures begin slowly, saliva collects above and troubles the patient by its quantity, and there is usually no pain. Foreign Bodies.—Foreign bodies often lodge in the oesophagus, being swallowed accidentally or in jest or by the insane. The most common are coins, buttons, pieces of bone, or artificial teeth. Foreign bodies generally lodge in the narrowest parts of the oesophagus, just behind the larynx, and near the cardiac orifice. The symptoms of the presence of a foreign body are difficulty in swallowing, local pain, and sometimes a symptomatic cough, produced by the pressure of the foreign body upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve back of the larynx, resembling that heard in aneurism. The presence of a foreign body and its location can be detected by passing a bougie and feeling a metallic click or a rough object. The pharynx should always be explored with the finger. The location of the foreign body can sometimes be determined by auscultation, as in stricture. The X-ray pictures afford an excellent means of locating metallic or bony objects. An especially danger- ous location is at a depth of nine inches from the teeth, as the aorta crosses at that point, and may be injured by ulceration. Treatment.—In children the removal of foreign bodies is sometimes possible by inverting the child and making it inhale ammonia to excite strong expiratory efforts, meanwhile shaking the patient. Sometimes the passage of a plain bougie down to the foreign body or past it will dislodge it so that it will follow the instrument on withdrawal. Various instruments have been invented for the purpose of removing foreign bodies from the oesophagus, the safest of which is the horse-hair probang, which may be made to pass by the foreign body, and when withdrawn the horse-hair opens into a large disk. (Fig. 695.) The so-called coin-catcher (Fig. 696), which has a Fig. 695. Horse-hair probang. double shield-shaped point pivoted upon the end of the bougie, is not so safe, for sometimes it cannot be detached froin the foreign body, and there may be difficulty in removing the instrument unless the foreign body is forcibly dragged up with it. Forceps can be used only when the foreign body is very high up. If the foreign body is round, so that it is not likely to injure the surrounding parts, it may be forced downward into the stomach by a blunt,