552 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF JOINTS. of a plaster of Paris bandage. If no infection of the wound has occurred, repair takes place rapidly and the function of the joint is not impaired. If, however, the joint in a few days becomes swollen and painful and the patient exhibits constitutional symptoms, the wound should be exposed, and, if purulent matter escapes, the joint freely opened by incision and thor- oughly irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, and large rubber tubes or gauze drains introduced, or continuous irrigation may be employed. In complex joints like the knee-joint it is often difficult to secure free drainage from all the pouches, and, if not properly drained, pus may burrow up the thigh beneath the quadriceps muscle, so that care should be taken to intro- duce a number of tubes to secure drainage. Extensive wounds involving the joints should be irrigated and foreign bodies removed, and, if the edges of the wounds are not severely contused, a few sutures should be applied at intervals, and drainage-tubes introduced through the joint. If, however, there is much laceration of the soft parts, the wound shoidd be treated as an open one, a copious gauze dressing being applied, and the joint fixed upon a splint or by a plaster of Paris bandage fenestrated over the region of the wound. Even in cases in which the joints have been ex- tensively opened by wounds, if infection can be prevented and proper treat- ment instituted, repair may take place with a useful joint. We had recently under our care a patient who had received an extensive wound of the knee- joint, produced by a butcher's cleaver, which divided the patella transversely and opened the joint; in this case, after suture of the patella and free drain- age of the joint, it was closed, and the patient recovered with a useful limb. In wounds of joints the fact should not be lost sight of that ankylosis may occur, and is especially likely to follow if suppuration and destruc- tion of the articular cartilages have occurred, and the surgeon should be careful to fix the limb in such a position as would render it most useful if this result ensues. Excision or amputation may be subsequently required if disorganization of the joint has taken place. In wounds of joints of the upper extremity excision may often be practised with good results, and also in the ankle and tarsal joints ; amputation is sometimes demanded in joint wounds of the lower extremity. Gunshot Wounds Of Joints.—Gunshot wounds of joints may be extra- or intra-articular; the former may be considered as simple flesh wounds, and are not serious injuries unless the joint be opened by subse- quent sloughing of the tissues over it. Intra-articular wounds result from direct perforation of the joint by the ball, and are accompanied by injury of the synovial membrane, cartilage, and bone, often presenting great commi- nution of the latter tissue, aud are always most serious injuries. (Fig. 475.) The principal danger in gunshot wounds of joints is from infection of the wound, causing septic arthritis, resulting in septicaemia or pyaemia or the total disorganization of the joint. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of this injury is made by observing the course of the ball, the escape of synovial fluid from the wound, the distention of the joint with blood and serum, and the loss of function. Gunshot wounds of the bursa} in the region of joints may be accompanied by the escape of synovial fluid. Probing in gunshot wounds of joints, undertaken with a view of