396 CHAPTER XVIII. SURGERY OP THE NERVES. NETJKITIS. Neuritis consists in an inflammation of the connective tissue of the peripheral nerves, and may occur from exposure to cold, or from wounds or other injuries of nerves, or arise from constitutional diseases, such as rheu- matism, gout, syphilis, typhoid fever, or from the exanthemata, or from the toxic action of certain drugs, such as lead, mercury, arsenic, and alcohol. The affection may exist as an acute or as a chronic neuritis, and it may involve a single nerve, giving rise to a localized neuritis, or a number of nerves simultaneously, producing a multiple neuritis. Acute Neuritis.—This affection is characterized by pain, extending downward in the course of the distribution of the nerve, which is remittent, is worse at night, and is aggravated by pressure or motion of the part; there are also a certain amount of febrile disturbance, numbness and tingling in the area supplied by sensory filaments, and marked hyperesthesia, which, if the affection exists for any considerable time, may be followed by anaesthesia. Reflex phenomena in other parts may also be developed. Spasmodic mus- cular jerking in the early stages of the affection, if motor filaments are involved, may be followed by paralysis and muscular wasting. Acute neuritis often begins with inflammation of the sheath or perineurium, which is followed by oedeina of the sheath, with marked increase in the con- nective-tissue elements of the nerve and softening of the nerve-tubules from granular and fatty changes, as well as from inflammatory exudates. Acute neuritis may result from exposure to cold, or from contusions or wounds of nerves ; the affection is not infrequent after punctured wounds, and the contusion or laceration of nerves following fractures and dislocations, and strains or ruptures of fibrous tissue, fasciae, and muscles. Acute neuritis is most likely to be confounded with neuralgia or rheumatism, but may be differentiated from the latter affection by the fact that the pain occurs in the track of a nerve, and that it is later followed by sensory, motor, or trophic changes. Treatment.—In the treatment of this affection heat or cold may be applied, as is most comfortable to the patient; anodyne applications may also be employed. The pai't should be put at rest, a splint being applied to the part when it is possible. If the pain is intense, hypodermic injec- tions of morphine and atropine should be used. In the subacute stage of the affection counter-irritation and the use of the galvanic current are often followed by satisfactory results.