DIAGNOSIS OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 962 tion. The movements may be of very small diameter. Constipation and diarrhoea are apt to alternate. The general condition of the patient in these cases does not suffer at first, and complete obstruction, without even the passage of gas, has been known to exist for ten days or a fortnight and yet recovery take place. Diagnosis.—It is, in the first place, essential to determine whether stran- gulation is present, the symptoms of this condition being the acute pain and the uncontrollable vomiting, which rapidly becomes fecal. If there are symptoms of strangulation, all the hernial apertures must be examined, in order to exclude the presence of strangulated hernia. Acute peritonitis caused by perforation sometimes resembles intestinal obstruction, but may be recognized by the more intense generalized and steady pain, the great abdominal tenderness, and the rise of temperature following the acute collapse. Appendicitis with perforation is often the cause of intestinal obstruction, either from the inflammatory paralysis of the bowel or from the mechanical effect of adhesions about the appendix, but the local symptoms should overshadow those of obstruction. Thrombosis of the mesenteric veins and acute inflammation of the pancreas may also resemble obstruction. The diagnosis of the various kinds of obstruction must be made from the clinical history together with the local examination. Thus, acute obstruc- tion is most frequently the result of intussusception, then of strangulation by bands or through apertures, of volvulus, or impacted foreign bodies, and rarely of stricture or paralysis. It should be noted, however, that acute obstruction may suddenly develop upon a chronic condition, and a malig- nant stricture of the large intestine has been known to occasion no symp- toms whatever until it had become so small as to be blocked by an apple- seed, causing acute obstruction with a fatal result. Subacute obstruction is most frequently seen as the result of foreign bodies, of stricture, of adhe- sions, and of strangulation by bands or through apertures. Chronic ob- struction is most commonly found in paralysis of the intestine, fecal impac- tion, stricture, or adhesions. Chronic intussusception is uncommon. Earely we find chronic obstruction due to foreign bodies or incarceration by bands or through apertures. Strangulation by bands, apertures, and diverticula is most commonly found in adults, and with a history of preceding peritonitis, abdominal injury, or hernia. The vomiting begins early, and soon becomes fecal, the constipation is absolute, but tympanites does not become well marked for three or four days, there is no tenderness nor rectal tenesmus, and there may be no tumor. The prostration, however, may be extreme. In volvulus of the sigmoid flexure the patient is generally a male past middle age, with a history of constipation. The vomiting is not marked, and is seldom fecal. Tympanites begins at first in the occluded loop, and may be limited to that throughout, as has been shown by Von Wahl, but it must be remembered that a distended sigmoid flexure may be so large in these cases as to fill the entire abdomen, so that no limited tumor can be distinguished. As a rule, however, a tumor is felt between the navel and the iliac spine or Poupart's ligament. There may be tenderness in the left iliac region and some rectal tenesmus.