235 EFFECTS OF COLD. mouth consists in the use of antiseptic washes, and here subsequent ulcer- ation and contraction may interfere with the motion of the jaw. The treatment of oedema of the glottis following burns or scalds of the mouth or pharynx consists in early scarification of the epiglottis as soon as the dyspnoea is marked, and if this is not quickly followed by relief, trache- otomy or intubation should be performed. Tracheotomy is, we think, the better operation, as the cedematous condition of the epiglottis interferes with the entrance of air into the intubation tube. Sunburn.—Exposure to the sun produces upon exposed parts a condi- tion of the superficial layer of the skin corresponding to a burn of the first degree ; if the skin be delicate and the exposure prolonged, dermatitis with vesication may occur. The principal symptoms are swelling, redness, and burning pain. If a large surface of the body is involved, sunburn may be followed by a fatal result, as is the case with burns of the first degree. Treatment.—If the surface be covered with lint saturated with soda solution, followed by the application of vaseline, or of a lotion composed of oil of almond and bismuth, the pain will be relieved, and the inflamma- tion quickly subside. Exfoliation of the superficial layers of the epidermis is apt to occur. EFFECTS OF COLD. The constitutional effects of prolonged exposure to cold are manifested by numbness, drowsiness, indisposition to move, a tendency to sleep, slow respiration and feeble pulse, coma, and death. The causes of death from ex- posure to cold vary with the intensity of the cold, the length of the exposure, and the constitutional condition of the subject. A person suffering from hunger or fatigue, or one in a debilitated condition, will be much less able to resist exposure to cold than one in whom different conditions obtain. In this climate death from exposure to cold is most frequently seen in intoxi- cated persons. Sudden exposure to intense cold may produce death by cerebral anaemia, while prolonged exposure may produce the same result by cerebral congestion. After exposure to severe cold, if the patient is suddenly subjected to warmth, death may result from embolism. Treatment.—In the treatment of a person who exhibits the constitu- tional effects of cold, care should be taken that reaction does not occur too rapidly. The patient should be placed in a cold room and rubbed with ice and snow, and this rubbing should be followed by friction of the surface of the body with rough towels ; if the respiration is feeble, artificial respira- tion should be resorted to, and stimulants, such as aromatic spirit of am- monia and whiskey, should be cautiously given by the mouth or by enema, the object being to bring about gradual reaction, and when this has occurred the patient should be covered with woollen blankets, and stimulants cautiously administered until reaction is complete. Chilblain, or Pernio.—This is a condition produced by exposure to cold, and results from a vaso-motor paralysis, producing intense congestion of the parts. The portions of the body usually affected are the toes, feet, heels, fingers, face, ears, and nose. The parts become deeply congested and