TREATMENT OF VAGINAL FISTULA. 1176 may be round and straight or Hagedorn curved needles, but the latter require some experience, as they are apt to make too large a puncture unless care- fully handled. 2. The Split-Flap Method.—Instead of paring the borders of the fistula, a sharp knife is made to incise the border between the vaginal and the rectal or vesical mucous membrane to the depth of a quarter of an inch on all sides. Fig. 892. Operation for vesico-vaginal fistula. The Sims speculum in place, the cervix appearing just below it. The tenaculum and scissors are employed in paring the edges of the fistula. (Jewett and Polak.) The vesical or rectal mucous membrane is then turned into the correspond- ing organ, and fine catgut or silk sutures are inserted on the raw surface of this flap and tied so as closely to approximate the edges. In passing these stitches the needle should be very small, and must not perforate the mucous membrane of the rectum or bladder, but should take up only the submucous tissues. The edges of the vaginal flap are then turned into the vagina and united by silkworm-gut or silver wire sutures passed in the ordinary way. The sutures in the first flap are thus buried and protected from infection, because they do not penetrate the mucous membrane on either side, while the stitches in the vaginal flap take the strain and remove all tension from the first. The line of union in either of these methods must be in the direction Fig. 893. of the least tension, and it is a matter of indifference whether it lies parallel to the long axis of the vagina or crosses it trans- versely or obliquely. Tait uses a single submucous suture in operating upon small fistulse by the split-flap method, passing it around the opening between the two flaps and puckering them up like a purse-string by tying it. We have also em- ployed the Szymanowsky double-flap principle of turning a flap of vaginal The course of the needle in passing su tures: B, bladder surface; V, vaginal sur face. (Jewett and Polak.)