276 AMPUTATION OF THE FINGERS. This method of procedure we employed in a case of triple amputation for railroad crush, which ended in recovery. (Fig. 197.) The time occupied in the operations should be as short as possible, to avoid the development of shock and the disadvantages of prolonged anaesthesia. "With this end in view, after removing the first limb, the main vessels should be secured by ligatures and the stump wrapped in a bichloride towel, and the same pro- cedure repeated for the next stump; when all have been amputated, any remaining vessels are secured, and the stumps are closed and dressed. If after removing one or more limbs the surgeon finds that the patient's condi- tion has markedly failed, as evidenced by the condition of the pulse and temperature, it is wise to postpone further operative procedure and treat the patient actively for the relief of shock, adopting rather the consecutive than the synchronous method of amputation. When reaction has occurred, even if it be after some hours, the remaining amputation or amputations may be undertaken with a much more favorable prospect. "We have suc- cessfully adopted this method in multiple amputations. SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. AMPUTATIONS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. In all amputations involving the phalanges and metacarpal bones the rule is observed to save as much of the bone as possible, as no mechanical contrivance can possibly equal the natural utility of the hand. The possi- bility of saving badly damaged portions of the hand has also been greatly increased by the modern methods of wound treatment. The fingers are very seldom amputated unless their destruction by the injury is complete; a small amount of vitalized tissue will often in these cases keep up the nutrition of the finger, and ultimately recovery with a more or less useful finger may result. It was formerly the rule in the case of the middle fingers, when it became necessary to go as high as the proximal interphalangeal joint, as there is no special flexor tendon for the proximal phalanx, to am- putate at the metacarpophalangeal joint. At the present time, when it is recognized that the interossei flex the proximal phalanx, the old rule is dis- regarded, and amputations at the proximal interphalangeal joint may be undertaken with satisfactory results. Amputation of the Phalanges of the Fingers.—Amputation of the phalanges may be rendered necessary by injuries or by diseases of the bones. The phalanges may be amputated in their continuity or in their contiguity. As it is important to save as much as possible of the finger, the former method is generally to be employed instead of disarticulation. Amputations for necrosis of the distal phalanx are now seldom performed ; it is found better in these cases to expose the dead bone and enucleate it, leaving the soft parts and the nail, which procedure, although it leaves a somewhat misshapen finger, serves to prolong the finger, and thus to preserve its usefulness. Amputation in the continuity of the phalanx may be performed by making antero-posterior flaps; a short dorsal flap is first cut from without inward, and a long palmar flap is cut in the same manner; the bone is then divided with a small metacarpal saw or with