LEPROSY. 63 such as using the same clothes and table-utensils. Some persons are evi- dently immune, and resist infection even under the most intimate association with lepers. It is doubtful whether it can be acquired by sexual intercourse. Like tuberculosis, the disease is not directly hereditary, but a predisposition to it may be inherited. Leprosy is found in the inhabitants of about one- quarter of the world and in all climates. Symptoms.—It appears in two forms, the tubercular, affecting chiefly the skin, and the anaesthetic, affecting the peripheral nerves, but the two forms are also found combined. There is no definite primary point of infec- tion to be found in most cases, although it must always exist. There is an incubation period of from six weeks to nine months, with various prodromal symptoms, such as intermittent fever, epistaxis, pruritus, and vague nervous sensations. In the tubercular variety the first eruptions are dark-colored papules, which may come and go, but finally persist as soft tubercles from the size of a pea to that of a walnut. These appear on all parts of the body, heing most marked upon the face and the anterior surface of the forearms. On the face the great thickening of the skin produces the characteristic leonine expression. These tubercles may ulcerate, producing very deep and extensive ulcers. The lymph-nodes enlarge and suppurate, and the hair falls out in the affected areas of the skin. The mucous membranes appear to be attacked before the skin, as indicated by epistaxis, rhinitis, and salivation, and ulceration may make great ravages in the nasal and oral cavities. The genito urinary membranes usually escape. In the anaesthetic variety bullous and erythematous eruptions appear on the skin, followed by dark-colored rounded macules, which tend to fade in the centre and spread at the edges. These spots are hypersesthetic at first, becoming anaesthetic as they grow pale. The anaesthesia is selective, the tactile sense being preserved while the sense of pain is lost, and often there will be a loss of perception of heat while that of cold is preserved, or vice versa. The eruptions are located ou the lower extremities, on the backs of the arms, and also on the trunk and face. The mucous membranes are simi- larly affected, and the anaesthesia of the pharynx interferes with swallowing. The changes in the nerves are similar to those of a neuritis, the ulnar and peroneal nerves being especially affected. There are neuralgic pains, grow- ing worse at night, and the nerves are thickened and tender. Paralysis and muscular atrophy and contractures may result, especially in the interossei, the muscles of the arm, the deltoid and pectoralis, and the muscles of the leg and face. Plantar ulcers may form, and other trophic changes are seen in the rarefaction of the phalanges, the fingers and toes losing entire pha- langes in this way by absorption, without any ulcerative process. The dis- ease is incurable, although there are cases which recover spontaneously even after considerable deformity has been produced. Treatment.—The treatment can consist only in isolation, hygiene, and local treatment of the lesions. Chaulmoogra oil internally and local appli- cations of gurjun oil seem to influence the disease favorably. Tonics are required, and above all a favorable climate. Nerve-stretching is useful for the pain of the nervous form, and is reported to have been followed by disappearance of the local lesions.