1000 CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS. Treatment.—As soon as the presence of a foreign body is recognized, its removal should be promptly undertaken. It is well before attempting to remove a foreign body from the rectum to administer an anaesthetic, so that the resistance of the sphincter muscle and the movements of the patient may be eliminated. The removal of the body is usually best accomplished by introducing a bivalve or four-bladed rectal speculum, and after thor- oughly dilating the blades so as to expose the body, grasping it with the forceps and gently withdrawing it. When the foreign body has caused ulceration, the greatest gentleness should be practised in the manipulations, to avoid perforation of the thinned rectal wall. In some cases it may be necessary to divide the body with forceps before it can be removed; in other cases a scoop or a wire loop may be employed. If ulceration of the rectum has occurred, the cavity should be irrigated with boric acid solution, and the ulcerated portion touched with a ten-grain solution of nitrate of silver. The same application should be made subsequently until the ulcers have healed. Congenital Malformations of the Anus and the Rectum.— These malformations are comparatively rare ; it has been computed that one child in ten thousand is born with a congenital defect of these parts, result- ing from arrested development in early foetal life. The central portion of the alimentary canal is formed from the hypoblast, and is known as the mesenteron, consisting of a simple tube terminating at the anterior extremity of the embryo in a blind pouch, and in a pouch at the posterior extremity, which communicates by a minute opening with the neural canal, known as the neurenteric canal. An invagination of the epiblast at the posterior ex- tremity of the embryo, known as the proctodeum, which forms the anus and the genitourinary orifices, communicates with the mesenteron about the end of the fifth week. The lower portion of the primitive intestine terminates at first in a cloaca, common to it and the genito-uriuary organs, but by the end of the tenth week the anus is separated from the genito-urinary organs by the development of the perineal septum. The failure of development of the perineal septum explains the frecpuency of the connection between the intestinal tube and the genito-urinary tract in case of imperforate rectum and anus. The various malformations of the rectum and the anus depend upon imperfect development of the proctodaeum, incomplete formation of the perineal septum, and persistence of the post-anal gut or neurenteric canal. Varieties of Malformation.—1. Congenital narrowing of the rec- tum and anus, without complete occlusion. This malformation, if not sufficient to produce marked symptoms of obstruction, may at first escape notice, as the semi-fluid feces of the infant pass readily through the narrow orifice, but as the child becomes older and the feces are more consistent accumulation takes place in the rectum, causing obstruction, and an exam- ination will demonstrate its cause. It is possible also that in many cases where the stenosis is not marked the passage of feces brings about the necessary amount of dilatation. Treatment.—This consists in gradual dilatation of the anus and the rectum, and is usually followed by a satisfac- tory result. It is conducted by passing daily a graduated bougie, or the