215 INCISED WOUNDS. ©edematous condition of the parts caused by strangulation may be in a measure relieved by free incisions, which permit of the escape of the effused fluids and diminish the risk of gangrene. After the incisions have been made the parts should be irrigated with an antiseptic solution, and an antiseptic dressing applied. Incised Wounds.—An incised wound is one which is produced by some sharp-edged instrument, such as a knife, an axe, or a piece of glass, china, or metal, which divides the tissues cleanly, producing no bruising or tearing. In incised wounds there is usually some retraction of the edges of the wound and subjacent tissues, the amount of retraction depending largely upon the extent and direction of the division of the subjacent fascia and muscular tissue and the natural elasticity of the structures. The surgeon in making incised wounds in operations bears this tact in mind and avoids the transverse division of the muscles, recognizing the greater difficulty which will be experienced in bringing about coaptation of the edges of such a wound and the strain which will naturally follow upon the cica- trix. The pain in incised wounds is usually of a sharp, burning charac- ter, and varies with the nature of the instrument by which it is inflicted; a sharp instrument produces less pain than a dull one, and the pain varies also with the part upon which the wound is inflicted, wounds of parts freely supplied with nerve-filaments being more painful than those of parts in which they are less abundant. Hemorrhage is usually free in in- cised wounds, but varies with the number and size of the vessels divided. In incised wounds of the scalp free hemorrhage occurs even if no large vessels are divided, for the reason that the density of the structure of the scalp prevents retraction and contraction of the vessels. In incised wounds of the hands and face the bleeding is also very profuse, even when no large vessels are injured, because of the great vascularity of the parts. Treatment.—Incised wounds, for convenience of treatment, should be divided into two classes: those which are inflicted by the surgeon, which should be aseptic wounds, and those which result from accident and may or may not be infected before they come under the surgeon's care. Incised Wounds produced by the Surgeon.—In these wounds, if rigid aseptic precautions have been observed, we have all the conditions present for rapid repair, as the division of important nerves, tendons, ar- teries, and veins has been as far as possible avoided, and the incisions have been so planned as to avoid transverse section of the muscles, thus prevent- ing gaping of the wound. Before examining or treating any form of open wound the surgeon should be careful that his hands have been sterilized, and that only sterile instruments, sponges, pads, ligatures, and sutures are brought into contact with it. Treatment.—In the treatment of such wounds, after controlling the bleed- ing by pressure, or by ligature if necessary, and providing for drainage by the introduction of a drainage-tube, if the wound is an extensive or a deep one, the deep parts of the wound may be brought together, if it be thought advisable, by the use of buried sutures of catgut or silk ; the edges of the superficial wound are next approximated by continuous or interrupted