453 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. humerus backward and then rotate it gently. The crepitus in this injury is softer and less distinct than that which is elicited in ordinary fractures. Treatment.—As in all cases of fractures involving the region of the shoulder-joint, both for the purpose of accurate diagnosis and to render reduction of the deformity possible, we consider it essential that an anaes- thetic should be given, and manipulation should be practised to push the anterior fragment or the shaft of the humerus back in contact with the head of the bone which rests in the glenoid cavity. In spite of the complete re- duction of deformity at the time of the dressing, it is very usual to have the shaft of the bone drawn forward and upward by the action of the deltoid, pectoralis major and minor muscles, and a very characteristic deformity to result. The dressing for separation of the upper epiphysis of the humerus is similar to that for fractures of the surgical neck of the bone. The skiagraph ( Fig. 356) shows the condition of the Fig. 356. bone in the case of epiphyseal separa- Skiagraph of case shown in Fig. 354, one year Fracture of the surgical neck of the after the injury. (By Professor Goodspeed.) humerus. (Agnew.) tion (Fig. 354) one year after the injury. In this case the restoration of function of the shoulder-joint was almost perfect. Fracture of the Surgical Neck of the Humerus.—This fracture is one which occurs between the tuberosities and the insertion of the latissi- mus dorsi and teres major muscles (Fig. 357), and is usually produced by direct violence received when the arm is near the chest; the direction of the fracture may be transverse or oblique. It is a very common fracture in adults. Symptoms.—The most marked signs of this fracture are loss of func- tion in the arm, pain, shortening, which is most marked if the fracture is oblique, preternatural mobility, and crepitus; the latter symptom may be elicited by making traction upon the arm and rotating it. The lower frag- ment may be impacted in the upper fragment, in which case shortening would exist but crepitus could not be obtained.