LIGATION OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 385 fingers. The fibres of the pectoralis major being separated, the costo- coracoid membrane is torn through with a director, care being taken not to injure the cephalic vein at the outer portion of the wound; the pectoralis minor is next seen, and, after separating the cellular tissue with a director, the axillary vein is exposed crossing from the upper edge of the muscle to the clavicle ; the vein almost completely covers the artery, which is ex- posed by drawing the vein inward. The needle is passed around the artery from within outward. Ligation of the Axillary Artery in the Axilla.—The patient being- placed in the recumbent position and the arm drawn off from the side, an incision two and a half inches long, starting at the upper point of the axilla and carried down the arm at the edge of the coraco-brachialis muscle, is Fig. 288. Line of the axillary artery in the axilla. (Agnew.) made. (Fig. 288.) The skin and superficial fascia having been incised, the deep fascia is picked up upon a director and divided, when the coraco- brachialis muscle will be exposed ; this should be held aside by a retractor, and the operator working his way inward should first expose the median nerve, next the musculo cutaneous nerve, and then the axillary artery with the axillary vein on the inner side ; the ulnar and internal cutaneous nerves also lie to the inner side of the artery. After the vessel has been isolated, the needle should be passed between the artery and the vein and its point conducted towards the coraco-brachialis muscle, care being taken to avoid the median and musculo-cutaneous nerves. Ligation of the Brachial Artery.—The brachial artery extends from the tendon of the teres major muscle along the inner edge of the coraco- brachialis and biceps muscles to about half an inch below Fig. 289. the bend of the elbow-joint, at which point it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. The brachial artery may be tied in its upper or middle third or at the bend of the elbow. Operation. —In ligating the brachial artery in the middle of the arm, an incision three inches long is made on a line corresponding to the inner edge of the biceps muscle (Fig. 289); the skin and cellular tissue are 25 Ligation of the brachial artery at the middle third and at the bend of the elbow. (Agnew.)