823 PANOPHTHALMITIS. Sympathetic inflammation, or ophthalmitis, is a serious organic disease, to which the general name uveitis is applicable, because its lesions are found in the uveal tract—that is, the iris, the ciliary body, and the choroid. It may appear as an irido cyclitis, a serous iritis, or an inflam- mation involving the choroid and retina, its earliest manifestation some- times being an inflammation of the optic papilla. The period of incubation of this disease is from three to six weeks. It is said to have occurred as early as the seventh day. No satisfactory explanation of sympathetic ophthalmitis has been given, although no doubt the theory of infection best explains it, and probably there is a transference of micro-organisms from the injured eye to its fellow. The prognosis is exceedingly bad, and if sympathetic ophthalmitis has once begun, it always leaves most serious results. Treatment.—The most important treatment is prophylaxis; that is to say, an eye so diseased or injured that it is likely to produce sympathetic ophthalmitis should be removed, or so treated that it will be harmless. It is difficult to formulate exact rules in regard to enucleation or evisceration under these circumstances. In general terms it may be stated that if an eye is so injured that it is sightless and the ciliary region is affected, and especially if a foreign body has entered the eye and judicious efforts have failed to extract it, enucleation or one of its substitutes should be performed. Even if the injured eye is not sightless, the ciliary region being involved in a septic inflammation, the eyeball should be subjected to similar treatment. If sympathetic inflammation has already begun, the rules just quoted do not apply, and enucleation must not be performed if there is any vision in the exciting eye, which in the end may prove to be the more useful organ. If, however, the exciting eye is blind, and sympathetic inflammation has already begun, it should be enucleated in the hope of removing a source of irritation and thus rendering the treatment of the second eye more effectual. The medicinal treatment of sympathetic inflammation is similar to that of iritis. Panophthalmitis.—This term is applied to a general inflammation of all the tissues of the globe, and may be caused by injury, septic operations upon the eyeball, or sloughing ulcers of the cornea, and is seen also in pyaemia, septicemia, endocarditis, cerebro-spinal meningitis, small-pox, and a number of other diseases. The symptoms are oedema of the lid, chemosis of the conjunctiva, and purulent inflammation of the ciliary body, the choroid, and the vitreous. The inflammation usually spreads to the orbital tissues, which become exceedingly swollen and cause excessive protrusion of the globe. After a time the globe ruptures and shrinks, and we have the condition known as phthisis bulbi. Treatment.—This may consist of bloodletting from the temple, fre- quently changed iced compresses, and the internal administration of opium and quinine ; but as sight is usually destroyed early in the disease, and the pain is very severe, evisceration of the eyeball should be performed, or, if this is not possible, deep incisions should be made very much as one would treat an abscess to relieve tension.