TRAUMATIC GANGRENE. 148 It is possible to have traumatic gangrene of the dry type if the tissues are not infected ; but if they become infected they soon present the appearances of moist gangrene. The variety of gangrene which usually results from traumatism causing interference with the return of venous blood, or from sudden obstruction of the arterial blood-supply by injury of the vessels or by an embolus, or from the presence of inflammatory exudations, is known as traumatic gangrene, and may occur in two forms—localized traumatic gangrene and traumatic spreading gangrene. Localized Traumatic Gangrene.—This form of moist gangrene may result from crushing or laceration of the tissues, from injuries of the main veins interfering with the return of venous blood, from injury or sudden ob- struction of the principal arteries of a part, or from sudden constriction of the vessels by tight bandages or ligatures; it may also develop as the re- sult of burns, scalds, or exposure to extreme cold. Venous obstruction plays a very important part in the production of moist gangrene. A certain amount of tissue is often devitalized as the result of the injury, but in addi- tion to this there is a considerable destruction of contiguous tissues as the result of inflammation and septic infection, which diminishes the vascular supply of the parts by compressing the vessels, so that the damaged tissue as well as the surrounding parts becomes gangrenous; the process does hot extend indefinitely, but soon becomes localized. Symptoms.—When a part which has had its vitality seriously inter- fered with becomes gangrenous, pain which may have been present sud- denly ceases, the part becomes insensitive, and the skin is cold, pale, and mottled, purple, green, and red, and finally dark-colored; blebs contain- ing brownish serum form- upon the surface ; the wound, if one is present, assumes a grayish color: an offensive discharge Fir 89 ° escapes from it, and the dead tissue rapidly under- goes putrefactive changes. (Fig. 89.) Coincidently with these changes in the dead tissue, the living tissue in contact with it becomes red and swollen, and the separation of the dead tissue from the living is effected by an ulcerative inflammation, granulations from the living tissue lifting off the sloughs. (See page 23.) The patient at the same time, if the gangrenous process involves any con- siderable extent of surface, exhibits the constitu- tional signs of inflammation, fever, rapid pulse, and in some cases, if the septic infection is intense, may die from septicaemia. Traumatic spreading gangrene is considered under infective diseases, page 51. Treatment.—In tissues whose vitality has been impaired by injury the development of moist gangrene may be averted or its extent may be limited by careful sterilization of the wound and the surrounding parts, and by making incisions to secure free drainage and to relieve tension. Moist gangrene.