EXTRA-UTERINE PREGNANCY. 1213 cases formerly classed under this head were really instances of very early extra-uterine pregnancy. The hemorrhage usually takes place at menstrua- tion, which then ceases, although an irregular flow from the uterus may continue in its place. The patient feels severe pain in the pelvis, and there are usually signs of peritoneal irritation, in some cases amounting to a true peritonitis. There is abdominal tenderness, with a feeling of distention, and some tympanites. Examination shows nothing at first, the blood being fluid, but after the blood has coagulated a doughy mass becomes evident in Douglas's cul-de-sac or on one side of the uterus in the broad ligament. The blood-clot is usually absorbed in a few days, and the symptoms subside unless infection takes place, when an abscess may form and require surgical interference. The symptoms of a suppurating hsematocele are similar to those of pelvic abscess in general, and the treatment should be the same, the pus being discharged by an incision into Douglas's cul-de-sac or into the cavity of the broad ligament. EXTRA-UTERINE PREGNANCY. The ovum occasionally becomes impregnated while yet in the ovary, or in the abdominal cavity or the Fallopian tube during its passage towards the uterus, and may develop in any of these situations. It almost invariably develops in the Fallopian tube, but may make its way later into the peritoneal cavity or between the folds of the broad ligament by rupture of the sac. In the broad ligament the foetus usually dies, and the resulting hsematocele becomes absorbed. In the peritoneal cavity, however, the foetus may continue to live, and even if it should die the sac may still further enlarge by persistent hemorrhage. If the foetus dies after con- siderable development, the tumor may persist indefinitely as a cyst con- taining the mummified foetus, or it may suppurate or ulcerate into some of the hollow organs or through the abdominal walls, and thus discharge the body of the foetus and other contents. The cause of ectopic pregnancy is generally a stricture of the tubes due to some antecedent inflammation which obstructs the outward passage of the ovum; hence it is most com- monly seen after a long period of sterility. Symptoms.—The symptoms of an extra-uterine pregnancy may be so vague as to be uunoticed by the patient. Usually, however, the menstrual flow is irregular, one or two periods being missed, with intermittent flowing in the interval, and a deciduous membrane may be expelled. The uterus is generally enlarged, and there may be signs of mammary development. There may be short, sharp attacks of pain in the pelvis and a feeling of weight and bearing down. The attacks of pain are to be ascribed to the rupture of adhesions or to the bursting of small blood-vessels about the sac. Extensive bleeding may occur, sufficient to cause syncope, and if the sac ruptures the symptoms will be those of severe shock from loss of blood, succeeded by a commencing peritonitis. As a rule, these accidents happen before the foetus is three or four months old, but in some cases there is no rupture, and full development of the foetus occurs, the woman believing herself naturally pregnant. The diagnosis is not easy, because the pain may be accompanied with fever, and the symptoms may closely resemble