SPINAL ABSCESS. 531 Psoas abscess. (Agnew.) falling together of the vertebra?, and may be gradual or rapid in its devel- jpnient. Abscess may occur comparatively early in the disease, but is most com- mon in the later stages. It is probably present in almost all cases, and may be extensive and reach the surface of the body, or may be limited in extent and undergo gradual ab- sorption, so that its presence is not obvious. The lirection which the fluid takes depends upon the seat of the disease, upon the anatomical peculiarities 3f the parts, and upon gravitation. In cervical disease the pus may escape either into foe oesophagus, lung, trachea, or pleura, or descend into the posterior mediastinum, or open at the side 5r back of the neck, or pass forward and project mto the pharynx, forming a retropharyngeal abscess, tvhich is especially apt to occur in high cervical lisease. In dorsal disease the abscess may present ipon the surface at the sides of the diseased vertebra?, Dr form a dorsal abscess, or open into the pleura or mng, or pass down behind the diaphragm and point m the ilio-costal space and form a lumbar abscess, or ?nter the sheath of the psoas muscle and pass down into the thigh upon the outer side of the femoral vessels, giving rise to a psoas abscess. (Fig. 450.) In the lumbar region the ibscess may point in the loin, or in the ischio rectal or the iliac fossa. Paralysis.—This is usually motor, sensation being rarely affected, and Dccurs late in the disease, being caused by pachymeningitis, or by pressure of the displaced vertebra? upon the cord; wasting of the muscles is ob- served, and spastic paisy may be present if the disease is above the lumbar enlargement. Diagnosis.—The importance of an early diagnosis in tuberculosis of the spine cannot be overestimated. Cases presenting symptoms pointing to this affection should be subjected to a systematic examination ; the patient being stripped, the spinal column should be inspected for deformity, and its func- tion carefully tested. Spinal rigidity is an early and very constant symp- tom, and may be demonstrated by making the patient stoop to pick up an object from the floor, or by placing him on a table upon his face and ab- domen, when, by raising the body by the legs, the flexibility of the spine may be ascertained. When the disease is well advanced and deformity is present, the diagnosis can be made with little difficulty. The important diagnostic signs vary somewhat with the region of the spine involved in the disease. Cervical Tuberculosis.—The position of the head is changed, the occi- put being drawn downward and the chin elevated, the cervical spine is rigid, and there are reflex spasm of the neck muscles, pain in the course of the occipital nerves, elevation of the shoulders, and occasionally a projec- tion upon the posterior wall of the pharynx, which can be felt with the finger. (Fig. 451.)