752 RANULA. fluid. It may be unilateral or bilateral. This cyst was formerly supposed to be due to obstruction of the duct of Wharton, and in a few cases this may be the cause ; but the majority of ranulse are simply retention-cysts formed in the mucous glands in the floor of the mouth. A ranula may vary in size from that of a cherry to that of a small egg, is usually unaccompanied by pain, and attracts the patient's attention only by its interfering with the movements of the tongue in speech and in swallowing. When these cysts attain a large size some fulness may be noticed in the submental space. Treatment.—The most satisfactory treatment consists in grasping the wall of the cyst with toothed forceps and with curved scissors cutting away a portion of the cyst-wall. If the openings of Wharton's duct are seen, they should not be included in the portion of the cyst-wall which is excised. After emptying the fluid from the cyst, its walls should be cauterized with a solid stick of nitrate of silver or with a thirty-grain solution of chloride of zinc. A strip of iodoform gauze should be loosely packed into the cavity of the cyst and allowed to remain for a few days. A seton may also be em- ployed, but its use is not so likely to be followed by obliteration of the cyst as is the operation just mentioned. Acute Ranula.—This consists in a sudden swelling of the submaxillary gland, which becomes tense aud painful, and arises from obstruction of the duct of the gland by a plug of mucus. The pain and swelling develop suddenly, and are much aggravated during the mastication of food. Treatment.—If the openings of the ducts of the submaxillary gland are examined, the end of a mass of inspissated mucus may be found in the orifice of the duct, or a mass may be felt below the mucous membrane in the course of the duct. This should be removed by forceps, or the duct should be slit open with a sharp narrow knife and the obstructing material removed. Rapid disappearance of the pain and swelling occurs as soon as the saliva is allowed to escape. Dermoid Cysts of the Floor of the Mouth—These are some- times described as congenital sebaceous cysts, or thyroid dermoids, of the floor of the mouth, and are cysts containing sebaceous matter, hairs, and cholesterin, being true dermoids. They rarely take on rapid growth and produce marked deformity or dis- comfort before the age of puberty. They do not possess the translucency of an ordinary ranula, are more deeply seated, are covered by the mucous membrane and muscles, are most frequently situated in the median line, and are often attached to the hyoid bone. The cyst may present an elastic fluctuating swell- ing projecting into the mouth, and may also cause marked swelling beneath the chin. (Fig. 671.) These growths are rarely painful, but cause difficulty in speech and swallowing by pushing the tongue upward and interfering with its motions. They often attain the size of a hen's egg or of a small orange. Fig. 671. Dermoid cyst of floor of the mouth projecting beneath the chin.