1175 VAGINAL FISTULA. so as to result in a wedge-shaped partial excision of the cervix. If the cervical mucous membrane is greatly degenerated, containing many cysts of the Nabothian glands, it may also be extirpated in part, only a nar- row strip being left to preserve the site of the uterine canal. In operating upon very deep fissures, injury to the ureters must be avoided, and the cellular spaces at the sides of the uterus should not be opened too freely. All aseptic precautions must betaken, and after the operation the vagina should be packed with gauze. In the Fig. 891. Fig. 890. SILK Operation for double laceration of the cervix uteri, showing the denuded surfaces, the sutures placed ready for tying on one side, the needle passing on the other side, the wire suture, and the " carrying loop" of thread. (Mann.) Operation for double laceration of the cervix uteri, showing the wound closed and the last wire suture being twisted. (Mann.) majority of cases some plastic operation upon the perineum will be necessary at the same time. The after-treatment of these cases is similar to that of laceration of the perineum. The sutures should be removed at the end of a fortnight or three weeks. Vaginal Fistulse.—Fistulse between the vagina and the rectum, or be- tween the vagina and the bladder, are very frequent as the result of difficult parturition. The openings may be so large that three or four fingers can be passed through, and the uterus may be implicated in them, especially if the opening extends up into the cervix as a consequence of laceration of that part. Small fistula? often close spontaneously, especially those made for drainage of the bladder in cystitis. Plastic operations for the repair of these fistula? are among the most difficult in surgery. Treatment.—The methods which we have employed with the best suc- cess for both vesical and rectal fistula? are the following : 1. The border of the fistula is freshened by cutting away the edges obliquely, paring off more from the vaginal side than from the other (Fig. 892), and sutures of silk- worm-gut or of silver wire are then passed through in such a manner as to embrace the vaginal mucous membrane and the submucous tissue on the other side and to avoid entering the bladder or rectum. (Figs. 893 and 894.) The sutures must be placed very close together, not over an eighth of an inch apart. The stiffness of the gut or wire is an advantage, as it acts like a splint: we prefer the former, because it is easier to introduce. The needles