DIABETIC GANGRENE. 151 rye, has been observed. In such cases the extremities are usually involved, and the condition of gangrene is preceded by cramps, coldness and hyper- esthesia of the extremities, and diarrhoea. This form of gangrene is of the dry variety, and if operation is required it should be postponed until the lines of demarcation and separation are formed, as it is impossible before these are formed to estimate the amount of tissue that will be destroyed. Diabetic Gangrene.—The development of gangrene in diabetics results from the facts that these subjects have thickened vessels, due to the occur- rence of endarteritis, and that the tissues in diabetic individuals are feeble and less able to resist injuries and the infection of pyogenic organisms than healthy tissues. Diabetics also may suffer from a form of peripheral neu- ritis, or enervation of the parts from disturbance of the central uervous system. Diabetic gangrene may be due directly to the presence of diabetes or may result from trifling injuries because the patient suffers from diabetes. This affection runs a rapid course, is characterized by excessive inflammation, and is of the moist variety. The prognosis in diabetic gangrene is always grave, the patient being in a markedly asthenic condition, and death usually resulting from septicaemia, exhaustion, or diabetic coma. Treatment.—Formerly operation in cases of diabetic gangrene was not considered justifiable, but at the present time, with the employment of asep- tic and antiseptic means, operation in these cases may be undertaken with a fair prospect of success. In this form of gangrene involving the extremi- ties, amputation should be done at some distance above the seat of disease ; the most rigid asepsis should be practised, so that the wound shall not be infected, and if these precautions are observed the disease is not apt to recur in the stump. The drugs which seem to exert the most favorable influence in diabetic gangrene are opium and codeine ; one or the other of these should be used freely: the patient should be placed upon an anti-diabetic diet, consisting of animal food, eggs, fish, and milk, and should avoid foods containing sugar and starch. Diabetic patients should be warned of the dangerous consequences which may follow from slight injuries, such as the cutting of corns, abra- sions, etc. In the treatment of wounds in diabetics strict asepsis should be the rule. Gangrene from Acute Fevers.—This form of gangrene is occasion- ally seen after typhoid fever, and develops during convalescence ; the parts most frequently attacked are the extremities. This affection results from thrombosis or embolism, and is usually unilateral, the gangrene is of the dry variety. We have recently seen a patient who developed during con- valescence from typhoid fever a large patch of gangrene upon the anterior surface of the leg. The treatment of this form of gangrene consists in aPPlying dry antiseptic dressings and waiting until the lines of demarcation and separation are formed, and if amputation is required it should be post- poned until this time. Gangrene of the cheeks or of the genitals (noma) occurring in the course of measles or scarlet fever is considered in another portion of this work.