543 OSTEOMALACIA. Treatment.—In atrophy of bones occurring in old age little can be done in the way of treatment, but in atrophy resulting from fracture or infantile paralysis attempts should be made to increase the nutrition of the affected bones ; this may be done by the use of passive motion and massage, and in conjunction with this treatment Esmarch's elastic bandage or constrictor may be applied at frequent intervals for a limited time, to produce temporary hyperaemia of the limb. Care should always be exercised in handling bones which present evidences of atrophy, as they are more susceptible to fracture than normal bones. When this accident occurs in such bones union usually takes place satisfactorily. Osteomalacia.—Mollities Ossium.—This disease is observed in adults, and is characterized by softening of the bones, which renders them very liable to break or bend upon the application of little force. The con- dition is seldom seen in males, occurring with much greater frequency in females, in the proportion of about ten to one ; pregnancy and lactation seem to be the principal exciting causes. The softening of the bones results from absorption of the earthy matters; the decalcified osseous tissue is finally converted into a gelatinous mass, surrounded by a thin cortical layer of bone beneath the periosteum. Symptoms.—The premonitory symptoms are failure of health and wandering pains in the affected bones ; the urine contains an abundance of phosphate of lime. In pregnant or nursing women the bones of the pelvis are first involved, but later other bones are affected. Bending of the bones or fracture may occur upon the application of little force, such as turning in bed or lifting the patient. In advanced cases multiple fractures are common. Bending or distortion of the bones may be caused by muscular action. Treatment.—General tonic treatment is indicated, and the use of phos- phorus is said to have an effect in arresting the development of the disease. The patient should be placed upon an air- or water-bed, and if there is a tendency to deformity of the bones of the limbs, light splints should be ap- plied to prevent it. If the disease develops during lactation, this should be arrested, and if it occurs during pregnancy, the induction of premature labor should be practised. Removal of the ovaries in the non-pregnant state has been employed with apparently good results in a few cases. Fragilitas Ossium.—This is an affection of bone in which the inor- ganic are out of proportion to the organic constituents, rendering the bone brittle ; there is an apparent increase of the earthy salts, with a diminution of the vascularity of the bone. It may occur as a result of malignant cachexia, in general paralysis, in tabes, and in the early stage of rachitis, and is probably due to defective innervation. There are, however, persons presenting excessive brittleness of the bones, who are apparently healthy in other respects and have suffered from none of the diseases named. Children and young persons seem to suffer most from fragilitas ossium, and in many instances an hereditary tendency can be traced. Such patients suffer from fracture upon the slightest provocation, but in time outgrow the tendency. There seems to be no special inclination to non-union in these cases, fractures uniting promptly, even when several have occurred in different bones of the skeleton at the same time.