933 HYDATID CYST OF THE LIVER. cases the cyst ruptures into the gall-ducts, producing an attack of pain like gall-stone colic, followed by jaundice and sometimes by inflammation of the ducts. The cyst may also perforate the stomach, intestines, or urinary organs, when its contents will escape by the natural passages. The diag- nosis is made by the smooth, globular shape of the cyst, fluctuation being the rule, and sometimes by a peculiar hydatid thrill. This thrill is felt by percussing the tumor in the ordinary way, while an assistant makes the sac tense by the pressure of his hand on its surface near by. The sensation re- sembles that produced by drawing a wet finger over a thin distended india- rubber bladder. It is rarely simulated by certain abdominal cysts, and we have observed a similar thrill in a case of hydronephrosis. Hydatids also develop between the liver and the diaphragm, and then the diagnosis from pleurisy is not easy. In pleurisy, however, there is an acute onset of pain, with fever and dyspnoea, which are apt to grow less as the fluid exudation develops, unless the latter is very abundant. In echinococcus the onset is chronic, and the pain and dyspnoea continue to increase as the enlargement progresses. In pleurisy there is uniform enlargement of the chest with bulging of the intercostal spaces, but in subphrenic hydatid the lower part of the chest is more enlarged and the intercostal spaces do not change. When the liver is displaced by depression of the diaphragm by pleuritic effusion it is simply pushed down, but the growth of hydatid may change its shape. In pleurisy the line of dulness on percussion on the side of the chest is concave above, but as the hydatid is below the diaphragm the arched outline of the latter is preserved, and the dulness makes a line convex above. Echinococcus may also develop in the pleural cavity, and is to be distinguished from pleurisy by the convex line of dulness and by the fact that the line is unaltered by changes in position. The lung-sounds also are perfectly healthy up to the sharp limit of this line. The shape of the chest in these cases is that of a keg or a barrel, while in subphrenic hydatids it is that of a bell. The liver is more depressed by a pleural hydatid than by one below the diaphragm, because the latter forces the diaphragm upward and paralyzes it so that the respiratory movement of the liver is lost. Treatment.—The treatment of hydatid cysts depends upon the vitality of the parasite. The entrance of the hydatid poison into the veins may cause instant death, and the entrance of the living parasite may result in secondary growths elsewhere. If the parasite should be alive when the case comes under treatment, therefore, it must first be killed by aspirating the contents of the cyst and injecting a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution, not over one hundred grammes being injected, and the injection being made very slowly. The best method of operation is one similar to that described for abscesses, securing the liver to the chest-wall or to the abdominal wall by sutures, then opening the sac, evacuating it, and draining it. In some cases a living hydatid may be extirpated without previous injection, but this is dangerous on account of the liability to absorption of the fluid. The wall of the sac should be removed if it can be easily detached. Diseases of the Gall-Bladder and Biliary Ducts.—Inflammation of the gall-bladder and of the ducts may be catarrhal or suppurative. The catarrhal form is not apt to require immediate surgical treatment; but its