493 FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. passage of wheels over the leg; or from indirect injury, as falls from a height, where the violence is applied to the foot. When produced by direct force the fracture occurs at the seat of application of the violence, and the line of fracture is likely to be more or less transverse. Fractures of both bones of the leg when produced by indirect force are usually oblique, and the two bones are seldom broken at the same level. Symptoms.—The symptoms of this fracture are pain, deformity, mo- bility, and crepitus. The deformity depends upon the degree of displace- ment of the fragments, and may consist in an anterior projection of the upper end of the lower fragment, in lateral displacement, or in overlapping of the fragments. When the force producing the fracture is applied to the front of the leg, the line of separation may be from below upward and from before backward, in which case the lower fragment will assume a position behind the upper one. Treatment. — In the treatment of fractures of both bones of the leg, where there is marked tilting of the upper end of the lower fragment, and the deformity persists in spite of ordinary methods of treatment, it can often be remedied by making a subcutaneous section of the tendo Achillis; ex- tension and counter-extension should be made, and the leg placed in a frac- ture-box padded with a soft pillow, the foot being kept at a light angle to Fig. 418. Dressing of fracture of both bones of the leg in a fracture-box. the leg, and brought in contact with the bottom of the box and secured to the foot-board by a strip of bandage ; a compress should be placed under the tendo Achillis, and the sides of the box brought up and secured by strips of bandage. (Fig. 418.) The principal objection to the use of the fracture- box is that in the case of a restless patient the movements of the body may cause the foot to press against the foot-board and thus produce overlap- ping of the fragments. We have found that the swinging of the box by a frame over the bed will prevent this complication and allow the patient to change his position slightly, and will at the same time be a most comfortable dressing. (Fig. 419.) Many surgeons prefer to treat fractures of both bones of the leg by the immediate application of a plaster of Paris dressing. This can be done with perfect safety if the patient can be kept under obser-