INTRACRANIAL TUMORS. 723 varieties is very similar, except that the more rapid growth of malignant tumors intensifies the symptoms, and they are liable to recur after a suc- cessful removal by operation. The dura mater is subject to sarcomata and to fibrous growths, but unless the malignant tumors penetrate the skull and appear externally, as they are apt to do, it is impossible to distinguish neoplasms in this situation from growths originating in the brain. In the latter organ the most common malignant tumors are those secondary to malignant tumors elsewhere. Primary intracranial tumors are rare, the most common being sarcoma, glioma, and fibroma. Tuberculous and syphilitic granulation masses are more common in the brain than true neoplasms (twenty-five to fifty per cent, of cerebral tumors being tubercular) and cause similar symptoms. Both tubercle and syphilis are usually associated with similar lesions else- where in the body, and the diagnosis is made from this clue. The tubercu- lous masses are generally multiple, and therefore occasion a great variety of symptoms, but in rare instances there may be but one. Hydatid cysts of the brain are extremely rare in America. The cysts usually found are due to degeneration of tumors or are the result of cerebral hemorrhage. In adults cerebral tumors are most frequently situated in the cortex, while in children they occupy the central part of the brain or the cerebellum. They may be minute or may fill one-quarter of the cranial cavity. Symptoms.—The symptoms of those tumors which are within the reach of the surgeon depend upon cerebral pressure, causing irritation, fol- lowed by paralysis. Mental disturbance, or at least somnolence and indiffer- ence, are found in one-half of the cases. The patient falls asleep while talking, is very slow in answering questions, loses his mental power and memory, and is unable to apply himself to any occupation. Vertigo, nausea, and vomiting are present in a large proportion of cases, and are especially marked in cerebellar tumors. Headache is a very constant symptom, and may be associated with tenderness of the skull over the tumor. The pupils are sluggish in reacting to light, contracted at first, then widely dilated, especially on the affected side. Choked disk is almost invariable. The nerve symptoms are a combination of irritation and paralysis, for a tumor pressing slightly upon the nerve-centres irritates them, and as the pressure increases or the disease involves the centres themselves it suspends or de- stroys their functions, the first stage being shown by convulsions, the second by paralysis if the motor centres are involved. Convulsions are present in about one-quarter of the cases, and may be limited at first, or general from the beginning. Typical Jacksonian convulsions are seen in some tumors of the base as well as in those of the cortex. The paralysis may be local or there may be hemiplegia, and it may be so slight as to be detected only by a careful examination. The symptoms are constant and progressive, unless the tumor is very vascular, when alterations in the blood-pressure may cause variations in its symptoms. External perforation takes place in a small percentage of cases. Death is the inevitable termination. Diagnosis.—Tumors of the base of the brain are by far the most fre- quent, and are recognized by their definite symptoms, such as divergent strabismus, conjugate deviation of the eyes, and paralysis of the third, fifth,