194 STRAPPING THE CHEST. Fig. 132. Strapping the testicle. (Bryant.) Fig. 133. finger around the scrotum at its upper portion ; a strip of plaster which has been heated is passed in a circular manner above the organ and is tightly drawn and secured ; this isolates the tes- ticle and prevents the other strips from slipping; strips are next applied in a longitudinal direction, the first strip being fastened to the circular strip and carried over the most prominent part of the tes- ticle, and then back to the circular strip and fastened. A number of these strips are applied in an imbricated manner until the skin is covered (Fig. 132), and the dressing is completed by passing transverse strips around the testicle from its lowest portion to the circular strip, care being taken that no portion of the skin is left uncovered. Strapping the Chest.—In strapping one half of the chest strips of resin plaster, two and a half inches in width, from eighteen to twenty inches in length, and long enough to extend from the spine to the median line of the sternum, are required. The first strip is heated, and one extremity is placed ux>on the spine opposite the lower portion of the chest; it is then carried around the chest, and its other extremity is fixed upon the skin in the median line of the ster- num. Successive strips are applied from below upward in the same manner, each strip overlapping one- third of the preceding one, until the axillary fold is reached. (Fig. 133.) A second layer of strips may be applied over the first if additional fixation is desired, or a few oblique strips may be employed. Strapping materially limits the motion of the chest-wall, and constitutes a useful dressing in the treatment of fractures and dislocations of the ribs and contusions of the chest. Strapping of Ulcers.—Strapping is frequently employed in the treat- ment of ulcers of the leg. To strap an ulcer of the leg, strips of resin plaster one and a half inches in width and long enough to extend two-thirds around the limb are required. The ulcer should be thoroughly cleansed and the skin surrounding it well dried; the first strip being heated, it is applied transversely or obliquely to the long axis of the leg, about two inches below the ulcer, and is carried two-thirds around the limb; the next strip covers in about one-third of the previously applied strip, and a sufficient num- ber of strips are applied to cover the ulcer and extend several inches be- yond it. Care should be taken that the strips are so placed as not to cover the entire circumference of the limb, as injurious circular compres- strapping of the chest.