TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. 1045 Fig. 825. cal condition by healthful surroundings, good food, and an avoidance of physical and mental overwork, thus allowing nature to assist in overcoming the disease. Alcohol, especially in excess, is injurious, and, although light beverages may sometimes be allowed, the use of strong wines and liquors should be interdicted. Tobacco often excites and as- sists in keeping up mouth and throat symp- toms, and its use should therefore be for- bidden. The skin must be kept in good condition, and attention should be paid to the teeth. During the primary stage, in addition to the hygienic treatment above described, local treatment directed to the chancre should be employed. Excision of the chancre has been practised in all its stages, in the hope of aborting syphilis, but without success. The sore should be kept clean by the use of mild antiseptic lotions, and dusted with iodoform, aristol, calomel, or acetanilid, iodoform being the best. If complicated by chancroid, the mixed chancre should be cauterized, if neces- sary, as directed in treating chancroid. Phagedenic ulceration requires the same treatment as directed for chancroid, and in addition is sometimes benefited by the internal administration of mercury. For the primary adenitis a spica bandage may be worn and mercurial oint- ment rubbed in locally to aid resolution. If suppuration occurs as a result of pyogenic infection, it must be treated as a suppurating bubo. It is sel- dom advisable to administer mercury during the primary stage. An abso- lute diagnosis of syphilis cannot always be made from the appearance of the primary sore, and hence, if mercury be administered in this stage, a state of uncertainty often remains in the minds of physician and patient. Again, if mercury be administered before the secondary stage, while it- may postpone the appearance of the eruption and alter the natural sequence of symptoms, it does not abort the disease. After the onset of the secondary stage, as manifested by the appearance of the rash, the question of medication becomes of primary importance. The drugs of peculiar anti syphilitic value are mercury and iodide of potas- sium. Mercury is of value in all stages of syphilis, iodide of potassium especially in the late secondary and tertiary periods. Mercury may be administered by the mouth, by inunction, by fumigation, and hypodermi- cally, the aim being not to salivate the patient, but to keep him sufficiently under the influence of the drug to overcome the syphilitic virus, for which it is almost, if not quite, a specific. The combination with the iodide in the form of the mixed treatment is of especial value in the late secondary and tertiary stages. The preparations of mercury suitable for internal use are the protiodide, the bichloride, calomel, gray powder, and blue pill. The Hutchinson's teeth with rhagades of the lips. (Museum of the German Hospital of Philadelphia.)