136 REACTION FROM SHOCK. lacerated wounds of the trunk and extremities, if extensive and accompanied by free hemorrhage, are usually followed by marked and often fatal shock. Excessive loss of blood certainly renders the patient more liable to the de- velopment of shock. Gunshot wounds causing perforation of important cavities of the body, injuries of the viscera, and shattering of the bones are also well recognized as giving rise to shock in a marked degree. Burns and scalds if they involve a considerable surface of the«body are attended with severe shock, and those who see this class of injuries cannot fail to be impressed with the profoundness of the shock and its very frequent fatal termination. Symptoms.—A patient suffering from shock presents pallor of the surface, paleness of the lips, dilated pupils, clammy moisture of the skin, muscular debility, occasionally relaxation of the sphincters, frequent, feeble, irregular pulse, subnormal temperature, and feeble, short, sighing respira- tion ; in many cases extreme thirst is a prominent symptom. The senses are often perfectly retained ; occasionally there is diminished sensibility, or the patient may be in a drowsy condition and indifferent to surrounding objects. The temperature is always subnormal, and may vary from a point a little below the normal to a point below 90° F. (32° C.). A depression of temperature below 97° F. (36° C), if it persists for a few hours, usually in- dicates a grave condition of shock, and reaction may not occur, although it has been observed in cases where the temperature was as low as 90° F. (32° C). We have seen reaction occur in a case where the temperature remained at 92° F. for a short time. Reaction from Shock.—When a patient recovers from shock he passes through a stage of reaction which is characterized by a rise of temperature which may reach or pass slightly above the normal; the skin loses its pallor and assumes a natural appearance, becomes warm, and the moisture which covered it disappears ; the pulse grows fuller and stronger, the respirations deeper, and the patient is apt to change his position and may fall into a natural sleep. All things being equal, the longer the symptoms of reaction are delayed the graver is the prognosis. The reaction may be incomplete, and the patient exhibit evidences of cerebral excitement, presenting a dry, hot skin, flushed face and anxious expression, rapid and compressible pulse, hurried respiration, restlessness, jactitation, and delirium of various degrees, a condition which has been de- scribed by Travers as prostration icith excitement. The reaction from shock may also be excessive, the temperature rising much above the normal, and being accompanied with great mental excitement, constituting a condition which is termed traumatic delirium. There is a form of reaction from shock in which the temperature rises very suddenly, and may reach a point sev- eral degrees above the normal in a short time, and there is no corresponding improvement in the pulse or respiration, the patient becoming gradually comatose ; these cases we have always seen terminate fatally in a few hours. Excessive reaction from shock, if it has been delayed, is said by some observers to be due to septic intoxication, and this view is sustained by the fact that excessive reaction is much less frequently seen now than it was before the introduction of the modern methods of wound treatment. No