31S LACERATION OF ARTERIES. Treatment.—In contusion of an artery followed by obliteration of the vessel, the early treatment consists in putting the part at rest, and the ap- plication of warmth to the parts supplied by the occluded vessel, to encourage and maintain their vitality ; if this is maintained, the patient should be kept quiet for a few weeks, to allow the collateral circulation to be perfectly established and to permit of the satisfactory organization of the blood-clot at the seat of injury. Contusion of an artery, followed by the appearance of a tumor at the seat of injury, with or without pulsation, and with impairment of the circulation in the parts supplied by the vessel and obstruction of the return venous circulation, should be promptly treated by the exposure of the injured artery by incision and turning out of the blood-clots which largely produce obstruction to the return circulation, and the application of two ligatures to the injured artery at parts where the vitality of its coats is unimpaired. If the vessel has not been completely divided, its division should be completed, to permit of retraction of its ends. Esmarch's appa- ratus will be found very useful in these cases in controlling the bleeding, and thus assist in locating the point of rupture of the artery. Laceration of Arteries.—Laceration of arteries, even of considerable size, is usually accompanied by little primary hemorrhage, owing to the fact that the inner and middle coats tear and curl up within the artery, and the outer coat is stretched beyond the limit of its elasticity and breaks, leaving a frayed edge, which falls over the end of the artery; a blood-clot soon forms upon the roughened edges of the inner and middle coats, which arrests the bleeding; the proximal end of the vessel can often be seen pulsating in the wound almost down to its extremity, and yet no blood escapes. Laceration of arteries results from the same causes that produce laceration of muscles, nerves, and fasciae, and is most commonly seen in machinery and railroad accidents and in cases of avulsion of the limbs. Primary hemorrhage in laceration of arteries, as previously stated, is often iusignificant, but if the damage to the vessel has been great enough to inter- fere with its vitality, or if the wound becomes septic, sloughing is apt to take place and secondary hemorrhage is very likely to occur. Treatment.—In an aseptic wound repair of a lacerated artery may take place, 'and with this possibility in view some surgeons recommend that a case presenting such a condition should be carefully watched, and that no active treatment as regards the injured vessel be employed unless secondary bleeding occurs. Although lacerated arteries in aseptic wounds may heal without the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage, we think the treatment above mentioned is not to be recommended, as it entails an element of risk to the patient which we do not consider justifiable. We consider it a safer method of treatment in the case of laceration of the larger arteries to secure both the proximal and distal ends of the vessel in the wound by ligatures applied to a part of the vessel at which there is no question as to its vitality ; the contused and lacerated portion should be cut away between the ligatures. Punctured Wounds of Arteries.—These are always serious inju- ries, although at the time of their occurrence they may appear to be trivial. These injuries are produced by stabs with sharp narrow knives, by splinters of metal, glass, wood, or bone, and by nails, needles, or any sharp-pointed