PROLAPSE OF THE RECTUM. 1027 constitutional disturbance, or where the dilatation cannot satisfactorily be accomplished by its use. In performing this operation the patient should be anaesthetized and placed in the lithotomy position. After washing out the rectum below the stricture and sterilizing the skin of the anal region, an incision is made directly backward to the hollow of the sacrum, through the anus, posterior rectal wall, and stricture ; after irrigating the wound it is loosely packed with strips of iodoform gauze, and allowed to heal by granulation. As the sphincter has been divided, incontinence results, and drainage is free, so that extravasation of feces into the cellular tissue does not occur. The relief of obstruction resulting from this procedure is complete, but as healing occurs narrowing may again take place, so that a full-sized bougie should occasionally be passed until the wound is cicatrized. Excision.—In strictures situated low down in the rectum excision has been practised with success, and is accomplished in the same manner as when the rectum is excised for the relief of cancer. The operation will be described under cancer of the rectum. This operation, when it can be done, is preferable to linear proctotomy, as it leaves the patient with control of the sphincter. Colostomy.—This operation is probably the best and safest that can be performed for the relief of stricture of the rectum, and the iliac is to be preferred to the lumbar operation. Prolapse of the Rectum.—This affection presents three distinct va- rieties. 1. The mucous membrane alone may be prolapsed and protrude from the anus, known as partial prolapse. 2. All the coats of the rectum, including the peritoneum, if the protrusion is extensive, may protrude from the anus (complete prolapse). 3. There may be invagination of the intes- tine, as well as prolapse, producing an external intussusception. Partial Prolapse.—In 'this form the mass protruded consists of the mucous membrane of the lower portion of the rectum, the other coats of the bowel remaining in their normal position. (Fig. 819.) This variety of prolapse of the rectum is of frequent occurrence. Its comparative frequency is explained by the anatomical fact that the sub- mucous connective tissue is loosely attached to the walls of the rectum. A slight protru- sion of the mucous membrane may be produced voluntarily, and occurs normally during def- ecation. Partial prolapse is frequent in childhood, is rarely seen between the ages of fifteen and fifty, and is comparatively frequent in the aged. Causes.—This condition may arise from inflammatory effusions into the submucous connective tissue, as in catarrhal proctitis or dysentery; Fig. 819. Partial prolapse of the rectum. (After Bryant.)