629 TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE SHOULDER. abscesses have formed, if the swelling persists and the discharge continues, the diseased structures should be exposed by incision, and the softened and carious bones, as well as the diseased soft parts, should be removed by a gouge or curette. It is often necessary to make a very extensive removal of the tarsal bones in these cases, and a thorough operation is much more likely to be followed by good results than an incomplete one. After re- moving all the diseased structures the wound should be thoroughly irrigated with an antiseptic solution and packed with iodoform gauze. The foot should be kept in good position with moulded splints of binders' board or with a plaster of Paris dressing, fenestras being cut through which the wound can be dressed. After free removal of the diseased structures the foot is often very much shortened, but if the parts heal satisfactorily a very useful member results. AFFECTIONS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. This articulation may be the seat of acute synovitis or of tuberculous synovitis or arthritis. The symptoms of acute synovitis are similar to those seen in other joints, and the treatment is the same. Tuberculous Synovitis or Arthritis of the Shoulder-Joint — This is not a common affection, being met with infrequently as compared with tubercular disease of the hip-, knee-, or elbow-joint. It may be synovial or osteal in origin. Symptoms.—In cases of synovial origin, swelling, effusion, and limitation of motion are observed early in the disease; in those of osteal origin, the swelling and effusion are uot marked, and thickening of the bone, with considerable pain and atrophy of the muscles, is observed. The deformity in this affection is well shown in Fig. 554. Abscesses may form, which are apt to point either in front of or behind the deltoid muscle. Treatment.—This consists in fixation of the joint by the application of a moulded splint to the shoulder and arm, which is bound to the side of the chest. Injections of iodoform emulsion combined with fixation are most successfully em- ployed in this joint, and often result iu recovery with more or less restoration of the motions of the joint. Excision of this joint is much less fre- quently required than of the knee-, hip-, or elbow- joint. If, however, abscesses form, and the head of the bone or the articu- lar surface of the scapula is softened or carious, excision may be demanded. Very excellent functional results follow excision of the shoulder for tuber- culous disease. Dry Tuberculous Arthritis of the Shoulder-Joint (Caries Sicca).— This affection attacks the shoulder-joint more frequently than any other joint Tuberculous arthritis of the shoulder.