166 SPONGES AND PADS. treatment of large suppurating cavities. It may be used in a solution of the strength of 1 to 1000 or 1 to 12,000, and for the sterilization of instru- ments a solution of 1 to 1000 may be employed. When employed in the irrigation of wounds it should be used until the tissues are stained a deep blue color ; this staining of the tissues is one objection to its use as an anti- septic. It has been shown by recent investigations, however, that pyoktanin is a much less reliable germicide than bichloride of mercury. PREPARATION OF MATERIALS USED IN ASEPTIC OPEEATIONS. Sponges.—Marine sponges are the best materials for the purpose of sponging, but their satisfactory sterilization is often a matter of difficulty. It is better to use a cheap grade of sponges and use them only once. The sterilization of sponges by boiling destroys to a certain extent their elasticity and their absorbent power. Schimmelbusch recommends the following method. The dried sponges are freed from dirt or sand by beat- ing, and are then soaked for several days in cold water slightly acidulated with hydrochloric acid, being kneaded from time to time. They are next thoroughly washed in cold and in warm water, wrapped up in a linen sheet, and placed in a boiling one per cent, soda solution; the solution should not be allowed to boil after the sponges are placed in it. They are allowed to remain in this hot solution for thirty minutes, are then washed in boiled water to remove the soda, and are placed in a half per cent, bichloride solution for use. Another method of preparing the sponges consists in beating them to remove any sandy matter which they may contain, and placing them for twenty-four hours in a solution of hydro- chloric acid, 4 ounces; water, 4 pints; upon removing them from this solution, they are washed until free from acid; they are then placed for half an hour in a solution of permanganate of potassium, 180 grains to 6 pints of water; next they are washed and placed in a solution of hypo- sulphite of sodium, 10 ounces; hydrochloric acid, 5 ounces; water, 48 ounces, and allowed to remain in this solution for four hours; then they are removed and placed in running water for six hours, and afterwards in a five per cent, carbolic acid solution or a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution. The carbolic acid is the better one for keeping the sponges, as it is not so liable to decomposition. Gauze Pledgets or Pads.—On account of the difficulty of the satis- factory sterilization of sponges, as well as of their expense, folded gauze pledgets have largely superseded them. Gauze pledgets are prepared by cutting a piece of gauze composed of from twelve to sixteen layers in pieces six inches square; the four angles of these pieces are then tied to- gether or secured by a few stitches. Gauze pads are made from a piece of gauze composed of from sixteen to twenty layers cut the desired size, the different layers in each pad being quilted together by a few stitches, and the edges loosely whipped with a thread to prevent them from fraying. Gauze-pads are used as a substitute for the flat sponges formerly employed in abdominal surgery, and for the drying of wounds. The pads or pledgets may be sterilized by boiling or by exposure to steam or dry heat in a steril- izer, or may be sterilized and preserved at the same time in a 1 to 2000