991 RADICAL CURE OF HERNIA. (5) Kocher recommends a method which leaves the canal intact but displaces the sac. Having exposed the sac and the external surface of the abdominal wall, he makes an opening through the external and internal oblique muscles above the internal ring, and passes through that opening a dressing forceps which is directed along the canal to the external ring and made to grasp the fundus of the isolated sac and draw the latter back through the passage made by the forceps. Then by strong traction the neck of the sac is brought to the level of the new opening in the abdominal wall and secured there by a couple of sutures. The sac is folded lengthwise and laid down along the course of the inguinal canal, but external to it, and is secured there by strong sutures, which draw a fold of the aponeurosis of the external oblique from each side over the sac. The internal ring is narrowed by a deep suture. The most frequently used, and apparently the most efficient, of these operations is Bassini's. Personally we prefer Mace wen's treatment of the sac combined with Bassini's suture of the canal, but the former is not always possible when the sac is very thin. In some cases a ligature cannot be applied, and it is necessary to suture the peritoneal opening. In the Female.—All these operations can be performed in the female, but the round ligament should be included in one or more of the sutures passing through the conjoined tendon. It has been our custom in small hernias to treat the ligament like the cord in the Bassini operation, but in ruptures with a large internal ring to secure it in the lower angle of the opening, as in Macewen's operation. Injuries to the Bladder.—It is unnecessary to speak of the necessity of full aseptic precautions and the danger of cellulitis and peritonitis if they are neglected, but the danger of wounding the bladder in these opera- tions shoidd be emphasized. The sliding down of the peritoneum in the formation of the hernial sac is very apt to draw the extraperitoneal portion of the bladder into the hernia, and the structure of the organ is so altered that it is difficult to recognize it even when it has been incised, for it resem- bles a thin serous membrane or a mass of preperitoneal fat. As the pro- lapsed portion of the bladder lies close to the neck of the sac, it may be included in the ligature or in the deep sutures. If in any case the peri- toneum does not strip up readily on the inner side of the neck of the sac, or if the structure of the latter appears unusual in any way, the surgeon should not proceed until he is satisfied that the bladder is not involved. Radical Operations for Other Hernise.—Femoral Hernia.—The operation for the radical cure of femoral hernia is not so satisfactory as that for inguinal. The outer wall of the femoral canal is formed by the femoral vein, and no suture can be passed on that side. Two methods are in favor for the treatment of this form. In the first, which may be called the purse- string method, the sac may be pulled down and tied off as high as possible, or it may be doubled up and treated as in Macewen's method. The femoral canal is then held widely open by lifting Poupart's ligament by a blunt re- tractor, and a small curved needle threaded with silkworm-gut is made to pick up the under side of Poupart's ligament, Gimbernat's ligament, and the sheath of the pectineus. This suture is tied, and a similar suture is