572 COMPLICATED DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. occurs during manipulation, a compress should be placed in the axilla and the arm bound firmly to the side ; it is not unusual, although a large amount of blood may have escaped, to have the hemorrhage thus controlled, and for the patient to go on to recovery. If this fails, the vein should be ligated. Injury of Nerves.—The axillary plexus of nerves may be damaged in forcible attempts to reduce old dislocations of the humerus, the injury being followed by paralysis of the arm. Fracture.—Fracture of the neck, head, or shaft of the humerus has occurred in the manipulations practised to reduce old dislocations of the humerus. If fracture occurs high up in the bone, no further attempts can be made to restore the dislocation, and the patient should be encouraged to use the arm, with the idea of a false joint forming at the seat of fracture, giving him a wider range of motion. Dislocation of the Humerus with Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus.—These two accidents may result from the application of the same force. The diagnosis of this injury can usually be made by dis- covering that the head of the bone occupies an abnormal position and is not affected by movements of the arm; crepitus may also be elicited. The deformity of the shoulder is that of dislocation, but the arm is movable and the elbow can be brought into contact with the chest. Treatment.—The patient should be anaesthetized, and the head of the bone pressed back into the glenoid cavity with the fingers, after which the fracture should be dressed in the manner described for the treatment of fractures of the surgical neck of the humerus. If it is found impossible to reduce the displaced head of the bone, it should be exposed by incision, the capsule freely incised, and after reduction of the head of the bone the frag- ments wired. If this is not possible, excision of the head of the bone should be practised. Compound Dislocation of the Humerus.—In some cases of dis- location of the humerus the head of the bone has been driven through the soft parts, causing a compound dislocation. If the vessels remain uninjured, the skin and the exposed head of the bone should be thoroughly sterilized, the bone reduced, and the wound closed. If the head of the bone, however, has been fractured, it is safer to excise it before attempting reduction. In cases of compound dislocation of the head of the humerus complicated with laceration of the axillary artery, amputation at the shoulder-joint would probably be required, although even here conservative treatment might be attempted, the vessel being tied, the dislocated bone replaced, and the wound dressed with a copious antiseptic dressing. Simultaneous Dislocation of the Heads of both Humeri.—This injury is occasionally seen, and has resulted from falling upon the hands when the arms were outstretched The reduction is accomplished in the same manner as in single dislocations. Congenital Dislocations of the Humerus.—Congenital dislocations of the humerus have occasionally been met with in association with mal- formations of other joints. The variety of dislocation is either subcoracoid or subspinous. The symptoms of this dislocation are similar to those ob- served following subcoracoid and subspinous dislocations. In congenital