SARCOMA. 107 Endothelioma of the breast may closely resemble carcinoma. The tumors are usually superficial, grow very slowly, with few symptoms, and seldom attain a large size. The lymphatic glands are not involved, the skin is generally not adherent over the tixmor, and there is little tendency to ulceration. The diagnosis from carcinoma can be made by the exceedingly slow growth of endothelioma, its encapsulation, and the freedom of the axillary glands. In some cases, however, these tumors have a course like that of sarcoma. Endothelioma of the ovary is a small tumor, usually of the cylindroma type, and is rare. It has none of the characteristics of sarcoma in this region, and is usually discovered accidentally. Clinical History.—The clinical history of endothelioma can be deduced from the above, the tumors growing slowly, with little tendency to ulcera- tion or invasion of surrounding parts. But they represent a type of those suspicious tumors which are liable to become malignant, especially under the stimulation of injury or irritation. Treatment.—A doubtful tumor of this character should most certainly be extirpated, but the operations need not be so extensive as those for inalig* nant disease. In the serous cavities of the peritoneum and brain the tumors are usually very small, and not likely to produce symptoms serious enough to demand operative interference, although in the brain they may give rise to serious pressure symptoms. SARCOMA. "We have considered the tumors which spring from the mesoblast and resemble in structure the various tissues which descend from that layer, but there is a group of tumors of similar origin which do not resemble any tis- sues found in the adult body, except the granulation-tissue found in the repair of wounds and in inflammation. The last-mentioned tumors are of various structure, but they all re- semble the different forms of foetal FlG- 67- Small round-cell sarcoma: a, small round cells Small spindle-cell sarcoma: a, blood-vessel; b, trans- and thin-walled vessels; 6, capsule of tumor infil- verse section of spindle-cells. (F. C. Wood, M.D.) trated with cells from the tumor. (F. C Wood, M.D.) connective tissues, tissues therefore which are normal in the foetus, but ab- normal in adult life. A sarcoma may be defined as a tumor composed of embryonic tissues of mesoblastic origin. It is always malignant, although