1167 INJURIES OF THE VAGINA. of this condition are absence of the menses, occasional attacks of cramp- like pains especially at the menstrual epoch, signs of pressure by the large tumor (such as constipation and frequent micturition), and the protrusion at the vulva of the distended hymen. The contents of these tumors are blood in a more or less clotted condition. If left unrelieved, infection is certain to take place sooner or later, and fatal sepsis usually results. The treatment consists in freely incising the hymen, clearing out the clots completely, irri- gating the large cavity with sterilized water, and packing the vagina with sterilized gauze, the irrigation and packing to be renewed if the tempera- ture rises. The principal danger in the operation is the risk of infection, and every precaution to maintain asepsis must be taken. INJURIES OF THE FEMALE GENITALS. The female genitals are but little exposed to injury, but falls upon the buttocks may produce contusions of the vulva, an immense hematoma often forming in the labia. Falls upon sharp objects may produce lacerated wounds of the parts, or a stake may even enter the vagina and open the peritoneal cavity or wound the rectum or bladder. Gunshot wounds are occasionally, but rarely, met with. The pregnant uterus may be injured by penetrating wounds of the abdomen, and has most frequently been wounded in the accident of goring by cattle. Wounds of the uterus are most fre- quently the result of attempts at abortion, but may follow incautious use of the uterine sound. The most common injury, however, is the rupture of the uterus during labor. The rent usually begins in the lower third, where the tissues are stretched over the presenting part of the child, but may ex- tend upward to the fundus. The laceration may be incomplete, either the mucous membrane or the peritoneum remaining intact. It may also be entirely extraperitoneal, but more frequently it opens the peritoneal cavity. The diagnosis of complete rupture is easy : the child recedes, and may escape into the peritoneal cavity, with signs of great shock and cessation of the labor-pains. In the incomplete form there will be an arrest of the de- scent of the presenting part of the child, or even recession, unusual hemor- rhage, loss of the symmetrical shape of the uterus, and thinning of its lower segment, as felt through the abdomen. The treatment of the accident con- sists in immediate laparotomy, with removal of the child and placenta, and hysterectomy should generally follow. If the mother were in good condi- tion, suture of the rent would be preferable, but, as a rule, she is moribund, and her only hope is the rapid completion of the operation, which is best obtained by transfixing the cervix with pins, surrounding it with a ligature, and cutting away the uterus. The pedicle is secured in the abdominal wound. A drain should be inserted in Douglas's cul-de-sac and also in the abdominal wound. The abdomen should be thoroughly washed out and the wound closed. Eecovery is rare, for, even if the patient survives the shock, peritonitis is very apt to follow. Injuries to the vagina in coitus occasionally occur from a dispropor- tion of the parts or from too violent efforts in intoxication. The penis has been forced through the recto-vaginal septum or into Douglas'g cul-de-sac. All these injuries are apt to be followed by profuse hemorrhage, on ac-