GASTROENTEROSTOMY. 944 being squeezed out thoroughly before the gauze strips are tied. A small incision is then made in the stomach while an assistant compresses the organ with his fingers so that none of its contents shall escape. A straight needle armed with stout silk is passed so as to make a continuous suture, including the entire thickness of the stomach-wall and circumscribing this opening close to its edge, or this suture may be placed before the incision is made. (Fig. 777.) One-half of the Murphy button is then slipped into the incision, and the thread adjusted so as to draw the edges tightly around the stem of the button, and tied. A similar incision is made in the bowel on the side away from the mesenteric border, and the other half of the button inserted after passing a purse-string suture around the edges, as before. (Fig. 778.) The two halves of the button are then pressed firmly together, the bowel being placed so that the direction of its peristalsis is the same as that of the stomach, and, finally, a Lembert continuous suture of fine silk is run around the opening in order to make it perfectly secure. The gauze strips are removed from the loop of bowel, the organs replaced, and the abdominal wound closed. Operation by Suture.—The steps of the operation by suture are the same up to the exposure of the stomach and the isolation of the loop of bowel. The latter is held in proper position close to the stomach at the point chosen for the opening, and a continuous Lembert suture at that point, more than two inches in length, holds the two in position. With a sharp knife an incision two inches long is made through the serous and muscular coats of the stomach and of the gut, and the edges on the side near the line of suture are united by a second continuous stitch. The mucous mem- brane is then divided for the same distance, and a continuous suture of fine silk secures the edges of the gastric mucous membrane to that of the intes- tine, first on the distal side of the opening and then on the proximal. The muscular coats of the two organs are then united on the proximal side of the organ, and, finally, the Lembert sutures of the serous surface are con- tinued completely around the opening. Posterior Operation.—Von Hacker has recommended making the opening in the posterior wall of the stomach, in order to avoid bringing the small intestine in a loop around the transverse colon. In this method, after Fig. 777. Fig. 778. Application of sutures for the use of the Murphy button. (Dunn.) Murphy button inserted and ready to be joined in intes- tinal anastomosis. (After Von Frey.)