560 DISLOCATIONS OF THE STERNUM. Barton's bandage should be applied to secure the lower jaw in contact with the upper for a week or ten days. The patient should be careful in making movements of the jaw until the rent in the capsular ligament is healed, for fear of reproducing the displacement. Noisy Movements of the Temporo-Maxillary Articulation.—These consist in snapping sounds heard during the movements of the jaw in chew- ing, and are produced by the condyles of the jaw slipping forward upon their articular eminences when the jaw is depressed, and then suddenly slip- ping backward during its elevation. The condition is probably due to re- laxation of the ligaments of the articulation, and seems to predispose to dislocation. For the relief of this condition the injection of a few drops of absolute alcohol into the ligaments has been recommended, and has been practised in some cases with success. Congenital dislocations of the lower jaw are extremely rare. A case has been reported by Mr. E. W. Smith in which there was very imperfect development of the glenoid cavity, interarticular cartilages, ligaments, and muscles upon the affected side. DISLOCATIONS OP THE STERNUM. Dislocation of the bones of the sternum from each other is a rare injury, and may consist in a separation of the body of the bone from the manu- brium, or of the ensiform process from the body. Dislocation of the Body of the Sternum from the Manu- brium.—This dislocation may be produced by direct force or by forcible extension of the body. The displacement may be forward or backward. When resulting from direct force applied to the body of the sternum, this is usually displaced backward and the manubrium projects forward, or the manubrium may be driven backward as the result of direct force and occupy a position behind the body of the bone. The costal cartilages usually retain their attachments to the manubrium. Displacements of the manubrium from the body of the bone may be associated with fractures of the ribs or of the costal cartilages. Symptoms.—The usual symptoms of this dislocation are interference with the respiration and a projection upon the anterior surface of the sternum, due to either the lower end of the manubrium or the upper end of the body of the bone, according as the fragments are displaced back- ward or forward. The gravity of this accident depends largely upon its as- sociation with injury of the intrathoracic viscera. Treatment.—Attempts should be made to reduce the displacement in cases of dislocation of the manubrium or the body of the bone, but are not always followed by success. An anaesthetic should be administered if the patient's condition will permit of it, and flexion or extension of the trunk should be made, with direct pressure over the projecting bone. If it is found impossible to reduce the deformity no violent attempts should be made, as patients have recovered with marked deformity, and have subsequently suffered little inconvenience from it; but if the displacement causes great discomfort the displaced bone should be exposed by incision and elevated. Dislocation of the Ensiform Process.—This is an injury which is occasionally produced by blows or kicks upon the epigastrium. The