COMPOUND FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOOT. 500 of the calcaneum is from six to eight weeks, and more or less swelling and stiffness about the ankle often persist for some time. Fracture of the Metatarsal Bones.—Fractures of these bones usually result from direct crushing force, and are very apt to be compound. The first and fifth bones are those most frequently broken. Treatment.—The treatment of these fractures consists in the applica- tion of a moulded splint of binders' board to the sole of the foot and the lower part of the leg, which fixes the motion of the ankle-joint, and may require the addition of a compress over the seat of fracture if there is a ten- dency to anterior displacement of the fragments, or they may be treated by the application of a plaster of Paris bandage. Union in fracture of the metatarsal bones is usually firm enough at the end of four weeks to permit of the removal of the dressings. Fractures of the Phalanges of the Toes.—Simple fractures of the phalanges of the toes are comparatively rare injuries, for, as fractures of these bones generally result from crushing force, they are usually compound. Treatment.—The fragments may be fixed by the application of a moulded binders' board splint which surrounds the injured toe and extends some distance back upon the plantar surface of the foot, so as to fix the motion of the metatarso-phalangeal joint. A light wooden splint may also be applied in the same manner. Union is usually firm at the end of three weeks. Compound Fractures of the Bones of the Foot.—These frac- tures are much more common than simple fractures of the bones of the foot, and usually result from crushing force applied to the foot. The damage to the blood-vessels and soft parts is often so extensive that primary amputa- tion is indicated. In cases, however, of compound fracture of the astraga- lus or calcaneum or other tarsal bones in which the soft parts are not extensively injured, it is often possible to save the foot. If there is marked comminution of the fragments it is wise to resort to primary excision of the fractured bone. Of course the greatest care should be observed to sterilize the wound and the surrounding parts and to prevent its subsequent infection. Very satisfactory results have followed excision of the astraga- lus, as well as of the calcaneum, in compound fractures of these bones. We had under our care recently a patient who had sustained a compound frac- ture of the astragalus in whom an excision of the comminuted astragalus was followed by a movable ankle-joint with little deformity. In a case of compound comminuted fracture of the calcaneum we removed the calca- neum entirely, and sutured the tendo Achillis, which had been torn away from the calcaneum, to the plantar fascia, the patient recovering with a useful foot. In extensive compound fractures of the tarsal bones it may be consid- ered a safe rule of practice to excise the injured bones, as by so doing free drainage is secured and the risk of tension is diminished. Compound frac- tures of the metatarsal bones and phalanges of the toes are treated by steril- ization of the wound and fixation of the parts until union has been secured. Sprain Fracture.—Under this name Callender describes an injury consisting in a separation of a tendon or ligament from its insertion into