521 CHRONIC OSTEOMYELITIS. Chronic Osteomyelitis.—This affection is similar in its pathology to the acute variety of the disease, but is usually circumscribed, as the infec- tive process is limited to a smaller area of bone-tissue ; it may follow years after an attack of acute osteomyelitis, and probably results from the renewal of activity of micro-organisms which have remained latent at the site of the former inflammatory trouble until started into activity by some traumatism or constitutional infection. It is the condition which was formerly described as circumscribed abscess of bone. Chronic osteomyelitis may develop in the region of the epiphysis, consti- tuting a circumscribed epiphyseal abscess, or may occur in the region of a former suppurative osteomyelitis, causing a circumscribed abscess of the bone at that point. The bones most commonly affected are the tibia, femur, and humerus. Chronic osteomyelitis gives rise to a circumscribed abscess containing from a few drops of pus to several ounces. The bone around the cavity is usually thickened, and the overlying periosteum may be inflamed, but rarely presents the conditions present in suppurative periostitis. Necrosis is rare, but a certain amount of caries of the bone may be associated with this affec- tion. Chronic osteomyelitis in the region of the epiphysis may be followed by suppurative arthritis if the abscess opens into an adjacent joint. In chronic osteomyelitis, thrombosis, septicaemia, and pyaemia are rarely seen. Acute osteomyelitis may, however, develop at the site of a chronic osteo- myelitis, and the affection, unless promptly treated, may produce a fatal result. Symptoms.—In chronic osteomyelitis the constitutional symptoms are not usually marked ; fever may be present or absent; there may be swelling to a slight extent, or it may be wanting. Usually, however, some thickening of the bone at the seat of disease can be demonstrated. Pain may be inter- mittent, and is of a boring or gnawing character, is increased by exercise, and is apt to be more marked at night. Tenderness on pressure can usually be elicited, and is probably due to secondary periostitis. The skin presents no discoloration, but oedema may be present if the periosteum is involved. Chronic osteomyelitis, especially if it be multiple, may be confounded with syphilitic disease of the periosteum or bone. In the latter affection suppuration is rare, and the seat of the bone-lesions is not apt to be near the epiphysis, as is the case in chronic osteomyelitis. The patient also is apt to present other evidences of syphilis, and the lesions usually disappear rapidly under antisyphilitic treatment. Chronic proliferating or sclerosing osteomyelitis may bear a strong re- semblance to osteosarcoma in its clinical appearance and course, the true nature of the disease being apparent only upon exploratory incision, when the presence of typical sequestra and of pyogenic cocci in the granulation- tissue leads to the correct diagnosis. On account of this resemblance, Kocher and Jordan have called attention to the importance of exploratory incision before amputation for osteosarcoma. Treatment.—Abscesses resulting from chronic osteomyelitis should be promptly opened and drained, especially if they arise near the epiphyses, to prevent the possibility of their opening into adjacent joints. Subperi-