ANTISEPTIC METHOD. 155 of friction with a brush, soap, and water. Germicidal solutions may be used for disinfection of wounds, but are most useful in the disinfection of the hands of the operator, the skin of the patient, the instruments, and the dressings. If these have been carefully employed before the wound is made, their subsequent use in the wound is unnecessary. Some forms of bacilli contain spores which often resist the action of germicidal substances, while the bacilli themselves are readily destroyed by these agents : the surgeon should therefore employ that means of disin- fection which is generally applicable to the destruction of both bacilli and their spores. The bacilli of anthrax, tuberculosis, and tetanus contain spores; hence to destroy these organisms is a matter of more difficulty than to render harmless such microbes as staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, albus, and citreus, streptococcus pyogenes and streptococcus erysipelatis, and the bacilli of diphtheria and glanders, which contain no spores. Heat is the most reliable, the most easily obtained, and the most gener- ally applicable destroyer of micro-organisms. Heat when used as a germi- cide cannot be applied to the wound itself, except in cases where a limited amount of the surface of the wound may be touched with the hot iron. Heat can therefore be used only for the disinfection of substances coming in contact with the wound, and for this purpose it is employed in the form of steam, dry heat, or boiling water. No form of micro-organism now known is able to withstand the action of boiling water for a few minutes; spores which can be soaked in germicidal solutions for a week without losing their vitality are destroyed in a few minutes by boiling water. METHODS OF DISINFECTION OR STERILIZATION. Sterilization of the wound or the substances coming in contact with it may be accomplished by using either the aseptic method or the antiseptic method, and at the present time these two methods are to a certain extent combined ; that is, it is impossible to be strictly aseptic without employing means of disinfection by the use of antiseptics. The aseptic method, which employs antiseptic substances only for the purpose of sterilization of objects coming in contact with the wound, when their disinfection by heat is impossible, is the method which has been generally adopted. Antiseptic Method.—In the antiseptic method the sterilization of the field of operation, the hands of the surgeon and assistants, the instruments, ligatures, sponges, and sutures, is accomplished by the use of germicidal solutions, and, in addition, the wound is irrigated frequently during the operation with germicidal solutions, and is afterwards covered with dress- ings impregnated with germicidal substances. The antiseptic method was that first employed, and, recognizing its value in surgical procedures, many surgeons still continue to employ this method, but it has certain disadvan- tages. Eecent investigations have shown that many of the germicidal sub- stances have not the power which was formerly attributed to them ; many chemical germicides form a dense layer of coagulated albumin arouud albu- minous substances, and also fail to destroy micro-organisms associated with fatty or oily substances. Chemical germicides may also form combinations in the tissues with substances with which they come in contact, seriously