275 MULTIPLE SIMULTANEOUS AMPUTATIONS. accidents, railroad crushes, gunshot injuries, or from frost-bites, burns, and scalds; in the latter cases secondary amputation is resorted to. The majority of cases receiving injuries of sufficient gravity to demand multiple amputation usually die of hemorrhage, or are in so profound a condition of shock when they come under the care of the surgeon that any operative treatment cannot be undertaken; reaction in these cases is unusual, the patient generally dying of shock. In exceptional cases, where little blood has been lost as the result of the accident, and reaction has been established, primary amputation should be performed, and may be undertaken with a fair prospect of success. Recovery following double amputation is not uncommon, a number of cases in which parts of three limbs have been removed simultaneously have been reported, and a few cases in which quad- ruple amputation has been practised have terminated successfully. The nearer the damage to the limbs approaches the trunk the less is the chance that reaction will occur. Ashhiu'st's remarkable case of primary simul- taneous amputation at the hip-joint and of the leg, in which recovery followed, shows that if reaction from shock in these cases takes place, a successful result need not be despaired of. In multiple amputations required for the results of frost-bites, burns, and scalds, or for gangrene, synchronous amputation is not always demanded, and the parts may be removed at intervals of a few days or weeks. The shock of the operations is thus very much lessened, and the results in these cases are naturally more favorable than in cases where multiple synchronous amputations are demanded. Multiple Simultaneous or Synchronous, or Consecutive Ampu- tations.—Some difference of opinion exists among surgeons as to the best method of procedure in these cases to diminish the shock of the operation itself. It has been recommended that the amputation be done synchronously or simultaneously—that is, two or more surgeons each removing a limb at the same time; this method certainly di- minishes the time required, but in our judgment does not diminish the amount of shock, but rather aggravates it for a short time during the operative proce- dure. We have in these cases adopted the consecutive method, which is that rec- ommended by Ashhurst, and consists in performing first the amputation which is likely to be followed by the most shock, and if the patient's condition after this has been done warrants it, the next most serious amputation is performed, and after this the third or fourth amputation may be undertaken. For instance, in a case of crush of the thigh, leg, and arm, the thigh should be amputated first, next the leg, and last the arm. Fig. 197. Triple amputation.