74 REPAIR OF NERVES. striated muscular fibres has been proved. The regeneration of the latter is feeble, and it is accomplished by budding from the muscle-fibres themselves, the processes from the latter extending into the granulation-tissue or young connective tissue of the cicatrix, and becoming interlaced with those from the opposite side of the wound. Repair of Nerves.—It is questionable whether the nerve-cells of the gray matter of the brain and cord are capable of reproduction, but the peripheral nerves unite completely. When a nerve is divided the peripheral portion degenerates at once. A connective-tissue union is formed between the divided ends if they are not too far apart, a fusiform swelling being pro- duced similar to the callus of a fractured bone. Eepair of the nerve-fibre is possible only by growth from the central end, and is preceded by the breaking up of the myeliue sheath and axis-cylinder, followed by prolifera- tion and migration of the nuclei of the neurilemma, the sheath and cylinder then disappearing. Nuclei surrounded by protoplasm fill the sheath, being continuous above with the nerve fibres, and forming Fig. 35. embryonic fibres, which become complete, with an axis-cylinder and a myelinic sheath. Repair of Bone.—In the process of repair of the bones after fracture, the blood-clot and exuded serum make a fusiform swelling without definite bounda- ries, extending into the soft parts, called the callus. (Fig. 35.) That portion of it which is formed by the periosteum and soft parts is known as the external callus, and that which forms from the medullary bone-cavity in the case of fracture of the shaft of a long bone is called the internal callus. The interme- Fig. 36. Section of fractured clavi- cle, three weeks after injury, showing internal and external callus. Formation of callus in a fracture seven days old : a, prolif- erating periosteum fibroblasts with mitoses; b, newly formed cartilage; c, small blood-vessel with swollen endothelium; d, granulation-tissue; e, a layer of bone which takes no part in the process. (F. C. Wood, M.D.) diary callus is merely that part between the two which is derived from both sources. The first change observed is the emigration of leucocytes into the