868 PROGNOSIS IN INTUBATION OF THE LARYNX. bation has been recommended in cases of foreign bodies in the larynx or in the trachea, but in such cases tracheotomy should be preferred. The indications for intubation of the larynx are similar to those for the operation of tracheotomy. Prognosis in Intubation.—The number of recoveries following this operation is very similar to the number following tracheotomy. Ball, in a collection of 4217 cases of intubation, gives 1285 recoveries, or about 30^ per cent. The number of successful results following intubation in the first and second years of life is certainly greater than that following tracheot- omy. It must be remembered, however, that the statistics of intubation compared with those of tracheotomy are not absolutely to be relied upon, for many operators perform intubation at a time when the dyspnoea is not extremely urgent, while they would hesitate to perform tracheotomy: so that it is possible that many of the milder cases are intubated, while the very urgent ones are reserved for tracheotomy. The results following intubation in cases of diphtheritic laryngitis seem to be more encouraging since the use of antitoxine in this affection has become more general. Instruments required for Intubation.—The instruments required for intubation are— Intubation-Tubes.—The intubation-tubes for children are usually six in number, of different sizes, adapted to children from one to twelve years Fig. 746. Introducer and tubes. of age. The tube now generally employed consists of a metal cylinder which bulges near its centre and is provided with a collar or head to rest upon the false vocal cords. The tubes are gold-plated, and each is provided with an obturator which has a blunt Fig 747 extremity, and through the edge of the collar on each tube there is a small perforation, into which a strand of fine braided silk is passed : this serves to remove the tube if in its introduction it should be passed into the pharynx or the oesophagus instead of the larynx, or if owing to sudden obstruction it has to be hurriedly withdrawn. The Introducer.— This instrument consists of a handle and a staff, curved to a right angle at