1055 TREATMENT OF GONORRHOEA. ance of highly seasoned food and with the use of plenty of water, should be directed ; a milk diet is the best. A suspensory bandage should be worn, as it diminishes the risk of epididymitis. The patient must be cautioned as to the contagious nature of the discharge and as to the special attention necessary to the disposition of towels and dressings, to avoid infecting his own conjunctiva or that of other persons with whom he is brought in con- tact. The surgeon should give instructions as to the application of dressings to receive the discharge. Some form of gonorrhoea-bag may be worn, or if the prepuce is long it may be retracted and a piece of lint or a little ab- sorbent cotton be wrapped around the glans and retained by pulling forward the prepuce, or, if short, a piece of lint or muslin may be perforated for the penis and then dropped around the meatus. The dressings must not occlude the meatus or retain the secretion in immediate contact with the glans. If there is much ardor urinse, it may be relieved by immersion of the penis in hot water during urination, and the immersion may be practised in any case two or three times a day, to relieve the congestion. Hot baths are also conducive to comfort, especially before retiring. Many attempts have been made to discover a successful abortive treat- ment for gonorrhoea. Nitrate of silver in strong solution has had many advocates, but has proved disappointing and dangerous. It should be re- membered that the use of strong astringent or antiseptic solutions used as means of aborting the disease may aggravate the condition and produce cystitis, prostatic congestion, abscess, or epididymitis. Any abortive treat- ment can be of service only during the first day or two, before the micro- organisms have gained a foothold on the subepithelial surface. The method of anterior irrigation, which is useful in all stages of anterior urethritis, is probably the least objectionable. It may be practised by passing a catheter four or five inches into the urethra—that is, to the compressor urethne muscle—and attaching to it a fountain syringe containing a weak solution of permanganate of potassium, bichloride of mercury, or nitrate of silver, with which the urethra should be irrigated two or three times a day, from one to two quarts of the solution being used. A hot solution of permanga- nate of potassium, beginning with 1 to 6000 and increasing to 1 to 2000, is the most satisfactory. Or the patient may be directed to use the same solution himself with an ordinary syringe, using a number of syringefuls three times a day. Internally, an alkaline mixture is useful by rendering the urine less irri- tating and decreasing the ardor urina3. Citrate of potassium alone, in ten- grain doses, or in combination with extractum hyoscyami fluidum (one to five minims), can be given three times a day, or powders of potassium bicar- bonate and potassium citrate, each five grains, may be dissolved in a glass of water and taken every three hours during the day. Bicarbonate of sodium, in doses of ten grains every three hours, is useful for the same pur- pose. There are some drugs, such as copaiba, cubebs, and oil of sandal wood, which, acting during elimination by the urine, exert a curative in- fluence on the urethral membrane. Some surgeons use these in the declining stages only, but others start them early and give increasing doses during