HERNIA. 974 HERNIA. A hernia is a protrusion of any of the viscera from the cavity in which they are contained through an opening iu the wall of that cavity. The word "hernia'' standing alone is generally understood to refer to protrusions through the deeper parts of the abdominal wall, but still covered by skin, a condition commonly known as "rupture," and we shall so understand it. The term is limited by some authors to a protrusion through an anatomical gap in the abdominal wall. When one of the abdominal organs, a loop of bowel, or the omentum protrudes through the abdominal wall, it stretches some or all of the layers of the latter, and usually carries before it a pouch of peritoneum which sur- rounds the protruding part on every side. The peritoneal pouch is called the sac of the hernia, and its narrower part, where it passes through the opening in the abdomen, is called the neck. When the contents of a hernia can be returned to the abdominal cavity the rupture is said to be reducible, the term irreducible being applied to the opposite condition. An incarcerated or obstructed hernia is one which was previously reducible, but has become irreducible, with symptoms of intestinal obstruction. A strangulated hernia is one in which not only is the passage of feces through the protruded bowel interrupted, but the cir- culation of the blood in the contents of the hernia is also impeded by a constriction at the neck of the sac or within the latter. Etiology.—The causes of hernia are not fully determined. The um- bilicus, the inguinal and femoral rings, and to a lesser degree the sacro- sciatic notch and the obturator foramen, remain partially open until late in foetal life, and sometimes even until birth, because they give issue to im- portant parts, and if the closure of these openings is delayed or incomplete they afford an opportunity for hernia. The funicular process leading into the tunica vaginalis may remain patent without the formation of a hernia, and there is no evidence to prove that imperfect closure is necessary for its occurrence. The influence of violent muscular exertion in the production of hernia is generally recognized, but many authorities deny that it is possible for any effort to cause an immediate protrusion through the normal open- ings if properly closed, and they assume that when the hernia suddenly appears after a severe effort there has been some congenital deficiency at that point. An indication of the effect of muscular exertion is seen in the frequency of hernia among persons engaged in laborious occupations and in women during the child-bearing period. In pregnancy there is the additional complication of the stretching and subsequent atrophy of the abdominal walls. It is doubtless from the constant straining in micturition that a narrow foreskin and rupture are so often associated, and urethral stricture, habitual constipation, and pulmonary diseases with persistent cough result in the production of hernia for similar reasons. An abnormally long mesentery is frequently found in cases of hernia, but it is uncertain whether this elongation is a cause or a consequence of the protrusion. The subperitoneal fat at the inguinal and femoral rings is often massed into a considerable tumor, to which the name preperitoneal