EFFECT OF BACTERIA. 6 When bacteria have entered the circulation they collect and grow in any organ or part of the body in which the blood-current is retarded or in which the vitality of the tissues is impaired by injury or otherwise. A slight in- jury appears to be more apt to provoke their colonization than a severe one, a fracture being less likely to result in osteomyelitis under such circum- stances than a contusion of the bone, and it is supposed that the severer in- juries excite so strong a reparative reaction that the tissues are more ready to resist the bacteria than when they have not been so thoroughly aroused. Such an injured place is called a locus minoris resistentice, a weak place in the defences of the body. It has been found that the circulation of ptomaines or toxines in the blood weakens the natural resistance of the tissues, and parts which were previously able to resist infection yield to it when these are present, a fact which is a strong argument against making fresh wounds when suppuration is present elsewhere, and an argument also for the speedy evacuation of pus in any case. Bacteria may enter the body of a foetus through the placental circulation, the animal being born infected with germs which had been present in the mother's circulation, an hereditary transmis- sion of germs which has been observed in erysipelas, tuberculosis, anthrax, and malignant oedema. Elimination.—When bacteria are circulating in the blood they can be eliminated in various ways. The kidney is the organ which most frequently throws them out, the bacteria of typhoid fever, septicaemia, and pyaemia having been actually observed in the urine. This process generally involves the infection of the kidney itself by the microbe in question, but some cases of pyaemia are on record in which the bacteria were excreted by the kidney without the development of any abscesses in that organ. The bacteria may also be eliminated with the bile (B. typhosus, B. coli, B. anthracis, and the pyogenic cocci) or thrown out by the intestinal mucous membrane. The salivary glands have been observed to excrete the germs with the saliva, and it is supposed that this circumstance partly explains the frequency of metastatic abscesses in those organs. The bacteria of puerperal septicaemia and of typhoid fever and tuberculosis have been found in the milk of nursing mothers, proving that the mamma may also take part in this purification of the blood. It is supposed that the sweat-glands also eliminate both bacterial toxines and the bacteria themselves. Effect on the Body.—The introduction of living bacteria into the tis- sues is followed in most cases by the local phenomena of inflammation, and later by general symptoms of poisoning caused by the entrance into the cir- culation of the living bacteria or the ptomaines or toxines produced by their growth. The symptoms depend upon the particular variety introduced. The saprophytic bacteria (those of decomposition) cannot live unless dead tissue, blood, or purulent fluids be present, and cannot survive in the cir- culation, but if they find material in the body to live upon, their poisonous ptomaines can be absorbed and cause dangerous symptoms. The majority of the disease-producing germs cause local inflammations, and the pyogenic varieties cause the production of pus. Some, however, excite very little or no local reaction, but enter the circulation at once. These various phenom- ena will be studied at length under the head of inflammation. It would