CARCINOMA OF THE LIP. 738 may be found in this way which would otherwise escape detection. Occa- sionally the small gland which lies on the border of the jaw near the facial artery is affected. Epithelioma of the lip may spread in the skin or in the mucous membrane, but generally both are involved. The great majority of these tumors are situated near one angle of the mouth, and occasionally they- lie directly at the angle. Instances have been reported in which epithelioma has appeared on the upper lip at the point of contact with a cancer of the lower lip, apparently being due to infection or grafting of the malignant tumor. The progress of the disease is not rapid, and it may extend slowly for four or five years, until the entire lower lip is destroyed. The glands of the neck are then generally very much enlarged and the patient suffers much pain, but in the earlier stages pain is not a marked symptom. Hem- orrhage from these tumors is also rare, and the patient is annoyed simply by the foul discharge. The diagnosis of epithelioma depends upon the slow growth of the tumor, its tendency to ulceration, and the marked hardness of its tissues. The primary lesion of syphilis occasionally leads to error, but the glands are involved early in syphilis, and the chancre has a more inflamed appear- ance and its surface is glazed, while the ulcer of cancer is sloughing or covered with the peculiar granulations of epithe- lioma. In doubtful cases a piece should be excised for microscopic examination. Treatment.—The results of treatment by operation are good and have been im- proving, so that of the average hospital cases one may hope to save forty or fifty per cent, by thorough operation, while in cases operated upon early the percentage of cures ought to be considerably above this. The operation consists in free ex- cision of the tumor, cutting at least half jgjgjj an inch away from the diseased tissue, f '"*" •'"""** The wound can be brought together best, **3 if the tumor is not too large, by making .;?«•« the incision V-shaped. (Fig. 665.) If it J is necessary to remove more than one-half Epithelioma of the lower lip, showing lines of -.«-■!■ i excision when the tumor is near the angle. of the lower lip, however, Malgaigne'S excellent method of filling the gap is to be used. This consists in making the excision in such a way as to leave a square defect in the lip, then making two horizontal incisions on each side, the lower pair beginning at the bottom of the wound and the upper pair beginning at the angles of the mouth, dividing the entire thickness of the cheek, and forming two rectangular flaps, which are drawn together to cover the gap. Along the upper edge of the flaps which form the new lip the mucous membrane is sutured to the skin. It is possible to remove half or even three-quarters of the lower lip without leaving a permanent de- formity, for although the mouth is much drawn up immediately after the