993 TREATMENT OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. to the strength of the parts. Probably the best materials are kangaroo tendon and chromicized catgut. Results—The results of these operations are best in oblique inguinal hernia of moderate size, in which at least three-quarters of the cases may be guaranteed a cure by Bassini's method. The success will depend upon the aseptic healing of the wound, and even a superficial suppuration is liable to be followed by a recurrence. While the majority of relapses take place within a year, no case can be considered a certain cure until from three to five years have passed without recurrence. Contra-indications.—The operation for the radical cure of hernia should be undertaken only under favorable conditions of health and strength, as it is an operation of choice. We have operated in cases of phthisis of moderate degree and chronic bronchitis, in which the hernia was trouble- some on account of the patient's cough, and obtained a good result. The presence of cough during convalescence, however, jeopardizes the success of the operation. Obesity, renal disease, and great size of the hernia are also contra-indications. In the last case a course of preliminary treat- ment, consisting of rest in bed, attention to diet and bowels, and keeping the hernia reduced by a truss or bandage, is essential. In these large herniae the abdomen contracts when the hernia has been unreduced for a long time, and if operation is undertaken at once there may actually not be room in the cavity for the extruded organs. Even if the hernia cannot be entirely reduced before the operation, owing to the presence of hyper- trophied omentum, a partial reduction may accustom the abdomen to re- tain the bowel which has been contained in the hernia, and the bowel can usually be returned, while the return of the omentum is of less consequence, as the latter can be removed at the time of operation. After-Treatment.—During the after-treatment it is all-important to secure early and regular evacuation of the bowels, especially if there is a rise of temperature or any tympanites, as these are more likely to be trouble- some than after ordinary laparotomies; If the wound is infected, as shown by fever, tenderness, and swelling, the superficial sutures are to be removed. The deeper ones may be allowed to remain if the wound is kept open by packing, so that they are in sight and can be watched, but they must also be taken out if the symptoms continue or if pus is produced. The patient should be kept lying down for at least three weeks, and in cases of um- bilical and ventral hernia should wear an abdominal bandage for a year. All violent effort must be forbidden for several months, but gentle muscular exercise will strengthen the parts and should be encouraged. With the exception of the use of an abdominal bandage in cases of um- bilical and ventral hernia, a truss should not be worn after these operations, as the pressure of the pad is apt to cause atrophy of the parts. A truss should be applied, however, at the first sign of a recurrence. Even if a permanent cure is not obtained, such an operation as Bassini's often enables a light truss to hold hernise which were formerly uncontrollable. Treatment of Strangulated Hernia.—Taxis is the manipulation employed to reduce a hernia. It consists of a steady pressure made upon the contents of the sac, while the fingers of the other hand exercise gentle 63