561 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. injury may be followed by severe pain in the region of the stomach, and dif- ficulty in respiration and occasionally vomiting, which may persist for some time. Treatment.—deduction may be accomplished by manipulation, which consists in passing the fingers below the process and attempting to push it forward, or by making a puncture in the skin, introducing a tenacu- lum into the cartilage, and drawing it forward. If the deformity recurs and is accompanied by troublesome symptoms, excision should be resorted to. Sternoclavicular, costoclavicular, and in- ter-clavicular ligaments. (Agnew.) DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. Dislocations of the clavicle may occur at the sternal or at the acromial end of the bone. Dislocation of the Sternal End of the Clavicle.—The sterno- clavicular articulation possesses an interarticular fibro-cartilage attached below to the first costal cartilage and above to the clavicle. The articulation is sur- rounded by a capsular ligament, strength- ened anteriorly and posteriorly by the sterno clavicular and costo-clavicular liga- ments. (Fig. 480.) Sterno clavicular dis- locations of the clavicle may be forward, backward, or upward. Forward Dislocation.—This is a fre- quent dislocation of the clavicle, in which the bone takes a position in front of and in contact with the upper extremity of the sternum, and is caused by force applied to the shoulder, forcing it violently backward. Symptoms.—The most prominent symptoms are the presence of a swelling in front of the upper part of the sternum, a tense ridge cor- responding to the clavicular origin of the sternocleidomastoid muscle, a diminished space between the acromion process of the scapula and the sternum, and a sinking down- ward and inward of the shoulder. (Fig. 481.) Pain is usually present upon motion of the arm, and the movements of the arm are much restricted. Incomplete dislocation of the ster- nal end of the clavicle may occur, and is ac- companied by the same symptoms in a lesser degree. This dislocation may also be asso- ciated with a fracture of the edge of the clavicle or of the edge of the articular surface of the sternum. Treatment.—Seduction is effected by drawing the shoulders backward and at the same time making pressure upon the end of the clavicle. It is often easy by this manipulation to reduce the deformity, but it is difficult to maintain the reduction. The dressing consists in a compress applied over the replaced head of the bone, 36 Fig. 481. Deformity in anterior dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle. (Agnew.)