284 AMPUTATION OF THE ARM. tated in its upper third, to control the bleeding a bandage should be placed in the axilla over the artery, and a tourniquet applied over this, resting upon the acromion process. Hemorrhage in high amputations of the arm may also be controlled by the application of a compress, with the elastic strap of Esmarch's apparatus applied over it, the strap being crossed high over the shoulder and fastened in the opposite axilla, or Wyeth's pins and an elastic strap may be employed. The method of applying these will be described under amputations at the shoulder-joint. Circular Method.—This method is usually employed in amputations in the lower third of the arm. The arm is abducted, and the surgeon, with a circular sweep of the knife, divides the skin and cellular tissue for about three-fourths of the circumference of the arm; the remaining un- divided skin is then severed, and, as the skin upon the anterior and inter- nal surface of the arm retracts more than that upon the posterior surface, the circular incision should extend somewhat lower upon the anterior than upon the posterior surface. The skin and cellular tissue having been di- vided, an assistant retracts them forcibly, and the surgeon makes a circular incision of the muscles down to the bone on a line with the upper edge of the divided skin. The bone is then thoroughly cleared, and great care should be taken that the musculo-spiral nerve, which lies in a groove in the bone, is cleanly divided. Having incised the muscles and cleared the bone, a two-tailed retractor is applied, the muscles and skin-flaps are held back, and the bone is divided with a saw. The vessels which require ligatures in amputation of the lower third of the arm are the brachial artery, which lies to the inner side with the median nerve ; the superior profunda, which lies upon the posterior external aspect of the bone with the musculo-spiral nerve ; and the inferior profunda, to the inner side of the brachial with the ulnar nerve. In muscular arms, in addition, several muscular branches will also require ligatures. In all amputations of the arm it is well to remember the possibility of a high division of the brachial artery, and to see that the abnormal vessel is properly secured if present. The nerves should be drawn out and retrenched. After all bleeding has been con- trolled a drainage-tube is introduced, and the flaps are brought together vertically, to secure free drainage. Oval or Modified Circular Method.—In this method of amputation of the arm, antero posterior oval flaps of skin and cellular tissue are made, the anterior flap being slightly longer than the posterior one. These flaps are dissected up for a sufficient distance, when a circular incision is made, dividing all the tissues down to the bone ; a retractor is next applied, and the bone is divided with a saw. (Fig. 214.) Lateral flaps as well as antero- posterior flaps may be employed in amputating the arm. Method by Transfixion.—Owing to the central position of the bone in the arm, the method by transfixion is preferred by many operators; it is also a method by which amputation can be most rapidly performed. (Fig. 215.) The arm being grasped with the hand, the point of a medium- sized amputating-knife is thrust through the arm so as to pass over the humerus and make its exit at a corresponding point on the skin of the opposite side; a flap of sufficient length is next cut from within outward.