16 PATHOLOGY OF INFLAMMATION. diminishes in rapidity the number of white cells in this clear space in- creases, the third corpuscles of the blood (blood plaques) appear also, and finally, when the current is reduced to stagnation, the clear space disap- pears, being entirely filled with cells, chiefly with leucocytes, although even the red corpuscles then find their way into it. (Fig. 11.) This ten- dency of the white cells to separate from the others, even when the current is still rapid, is partly due to their viscosity and power of amoeboid movement, but is in the main a purely mechanical effect of the slower current. It has been proved (Schlarewsky) that, when particles of different density are suspended in a liquid which is circulating through a system of narrow tubes with a very rapid current, there is a clear space next to the wall of the tubes, where the friction necessarily reduces the speed of the fluid, which Fig. 11. Fig. 12. Frog's mesentery, normal. Frog's mesentery, inflamed. Figs. 11 and 12.—a, small vein; 66, dd, nerve-fibres; e, capillary; ee, connective tissue (in Fig. 12 filled with migrating leucocytes). (Agnew.) is free from particles, and as the current is slowed down some of the parti- cles of the least density begin to appear in this clear space, their number increasing as the current becomes slower, until even the heavy particles also collect here when it is very slow. It is known that among the cellular ele- ments of the blood the leucocytes have the least specific gravity or density, and the third corpuscles rank next, while the red blood disks are the heaviest, and, as we have seen, these bodies appear in the clear serum near the vessel-wall in that order, according to the law just described. The slow current is associated with an increased intravascular pressure, and the latter produces an exudation of the serum of the blood, which passes out of the vessels and collects in the lymphatic spaces in the cellular tissues and else- where, and also exudes from the surface of mucous or synovial membranes,