DISSECTING ANEURISM. 355 Fig. 273. being called the mouth. (Fig. 272.) It may originate primarily, or may develop from the tubular form, and varies greatly in size ; in the larger ones all distinction as to original coats is finally lost, the sac being composed of fibrous tissue derived from the thickened intima and adventitia incorpo- rated with the surrounding tissues, which are largely converted into fibrous tissue. There is often great destruction of the structures with which it comes in contact, even cartilage and bone undergoing a pressure necrosis, as is frequently seen in the erosion of the sternum and vertebrae occurring in the course of aortic aneurism. Dissecting Aneurism.—This results from perforation of the intima, as from laceration or rupture of an atheromatous ulcer. There is an ex- travasation of blood into the vessel-wall, which dissects between its layers for a varying distance, and finally ruptures internally into the lumen of the vessel or externally into the surrounding tissue. It is a rare form of aneu- rism, generally occurring in the aorta, especially in women, and may exist for years. In cases in which it opens into the artery at its beginning and termination a double tube is present, which may simu- late, and has indeed been mistaken for, the rare congenital anomaly of a double aorta. (Fig. 273.) The duplication of the lumen may be present from the arch of the aorta to its bifurcation. Causes.—The causes of aneurism are predisposing and exciting. The predis- posing causes include whatever tends to decrease the strength of the vessel-wall or to increase the strain which it is forced to bear. The most important predisposing cause is atheroma, especially in its earlier stages, when there have already taken place an infiltration and degeneration of the media and adventitia without compensating endarteritis, which develops later. In the later stages, when calcareous changes are present, the decreased elasticity of the vessels causes increased pressure and predisposes to dilatation. All diseases which give rise to athe- roma, such as alcoholism, rheumatism, syphilis, and gont, are predisposing causes of aneurism. Rheumatism also gives rise to aneurism through the production of emboli. Individuals are occasionally seen who have a ten- dency to the development of aneurisms in different parts of the body with- out apparent cause. These cases of so-called aneurismal diathesis are explain- able by deficiency in the development of the arterial coats. Sex.—Aneurism is more common in males than in females, in the pro- portion of seven to one. This is clue to the greater strain on the vessels in males consequent on muscular exertion, and to their more frequent exposure to the diseases producing atheroma. Age.—Age is a predisposing factor ; middle life, a period of considerable activity, with beginning atheroma, is the period at which aneurism is most Dissecting aneurism of the aorta. (Agnew.)