319 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. instrument. Hemorrhage in punctured wounds of arteries is apt to be con- tinuous, as the clot does not extend into the artery but is deposited outside of it, and, as the wound is a small one, the blood infiltrates the tissues, causes pressure upon the veins, and interferes with the return venous circu- lation, or a diffused aneurism results. If the wound has been infected by the vulnerating instrument or becomes septic later, septic arteritis develops and secondary hemorrhage is apt to take place. Treatment.—In view of the above-named complications which may follow punctured wounds of arteries, the treatment which is most judicious consists in exposing the artery freely by an incision at the site of the wound, with due care as regards asepsis, and in applying ligatures to the vessel on each side of the puncture, and subsequently dividing the artery completely at the site of the puncture. If the accompanying vein has also been punc- tured and bleeds, it should be secured by two ligatures or by the use of a lateral ligature or sutures. Incised Wounds of Arteries.—These are among the most frequent wounds of arteries which come under the care of the surgeon, and may be produced by accidental division by sharp instruments, or by the surgeon in operating. The artery may be incised longitudinally, transversely, or obliquely. Longitudinal wounds gape very little, and may heal promptly. Transverse wounds, if completely severing the artery, are accompanied by marked contraction of the ends of the vessel and their retraction within the sheath. Symptoms.—Incised wounds of arteries are, as a rule, accompanied by free hemorrhage. In longitudinal and small incised wounds the primary hemorrhage may not be great, but, as the lumen of the vessel is not occluded, the bleeding is apt to be continuous, and a diffused aneurism is likely to form. In incised wounds of small arteries, hemorrhage may be arrested by the formation of a clot in the retracted end of the vessel. In incised wounds of the larger arteries the hemorrhage is so profuse that a fatal result quickly follows. When the main artery of a part is partially or completely divided, the parts supplied by it become cold and blanched, and the vitality in these tissues is determined by the promptness with which the collateral circula- tion is established ; if this is not accomplished, or is incompletely established, gangrene of the parts to a greater or lesser extent occurs. Treatment.—In incised wounds of arteries hemorrhage may be con- trolled by torsion or the application of ligatures ; torsion seems most appli- cable to division of the smaller vessels, and in any vessel of considerable size a ligature should be applied to both ends of the divided vessel. If the vessel has been only incompletely divided, it should be completely divided after the ligatures have been applied. Small incised and lateral wounds of arteries should be treated in the same manner. In the treatment of a wounded artery, the safety of the patient demands the obliteration of the vessel at the seat of injury. Eecent experimental investigations and clini- cal experience, however, have shown that it is possible to close wounded arteries by sutures, and thus prevent obliteration of the vessel at this point. Gunshot Wounds of Arteries.—Gunshot wounds of arteries are occasionally seen in civil practice, but are frequent in military surgery. A