325 LOCAL TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE. Digital Compression.—This constitutes one of the most valuable means employed for the temporary control of hemorrhage. The finger or fingers are pressed directly upon the bleeding vessel in the wound, or hold a com- press in the wound, or make compression upon the artery from which the bleeding arises at some point between the wound and the centre of circula- tion. (Fig. 255.) Control of hemorrhage by digital compression can be maintained for only a few minutes, as the finger of the surgeon or assistant soon becomes tired ; it is therefore employed only until means are adopted for the permanent arrest of the bleeding. Compresses.—The temporary control of arterial hemorrhage may also be secured by the use of compresses placed directly in the wound or applied to the vessel from which bio. 25o. Yig 256 the bleeding arises, be- tween the wound and the centre of circulation, and securely held in position by a bandage. If a com- press is applied in the wound it should be made of antiseptic or sterilized gauze, to prevent infec- tion of the wound. Tourniquets.—These instruments, which are of many varieties, are used for the temporary control of hemorrhage, and often serve a useful purpose, but if their use is continued for any considerable time they are apt to cause the patient great pain, and they should be dispensed with as soon as means can be employed for the permanent control of the bleeding. The Spanish Windlass.—This is an improvised tourniquet which may be employed in cases of emergency, and is prepared by folding a handker- chief or a piece of muslin into a cravat and placing a compress or a smooth pebble in the body of the cravat; this is placed over the artery to be con- trolled, and the ends of the handkerchief are tied loosely around the limb ; a short stick is passed through this loop, and by twisting this stick the loop is tightened and the compress is forced down upon the artery. (Fig. 256.) Petit's Tourniquet.—This tourniquet consists of two metal plates con- nected by a strong linen or silk strap with a buckle, the distance between the plates being regulated by a screw. To apply this tourniquet, a compress or roller bandage is placed directly over the artery and held in position by a few turns of a roller bandage. The lower plate of the tourniquet is placed directly over this pad, and the strap is securely buckled around the limb. The screw is then turned so as to separate the plates and tighten the strap, thus forcing the compress or pad upon the artery and controlling its circula- tion. (Fig. 257.) This instrument is especially useful in controlling the circulation in wounds of the extremities, and is often employed in amputa- Digital compression of the fem- oral artery. (Agnew.) Spanish windlass applied to the femoral artery. (Agnew.)