DISEASES OF CICATRICES. 238 cial respiration, and the administration of stimulants. If burns exist upon the surface of the body, they should be treated like burns arising from other causes. If paralysis of special or general nerves persists some time after recovery from the immediate effects of the shock, the use of galvanism and the administration of strychnine may be followed by good results. DISEASES OF CICATRICES. When the edges of wounds have been neatly approximated, and healing by first intention has taken place, it is unusual for any trouble to develop in the cicatrix, except keloid, which may occur even in such cases. The principal affections of cicatrices are weak cicatrix, which has a constant tendency to break down or ulcerate, painful cicatrix, keloid, malignant disease of the cicatrix, depressed cicatrix, and contracting cicatrix. Weak Cicatrix.—This form of cicatrix has a tendency to break down or ulcerate near its centre, and is usually seen in cicatrices following exten- sive wounds, burns, or scalds when a large amount of skin has been de- stroyed, and the same tendency may be observed in cicatrices which are adherent to bone. Cicatrices in tuberculous subjects are also apt to break down because of tubercular infection, even when primary healing has been satisfactory. The surgeon in treating wounds and burns should direct his attention to the diminution of the extent of the scar, knowing that in any large cicatrix the vitality of the tissues at its centre is small, and that it is therefore liable to break down or ulcerate. The amount of scar-tissue re- sulting from the repair of extensive wounds may be diminished by the use of skin-grafting, or by the sliding of flaps of healthy skin and connective tissue. Treatment.—When a cicatrix has a tendency to break down, the dis- eased portion should be dissected out and skin-grafts applied to the raw surface, or healthy skin should be transplanted to cover its surface. When a weak cicatrix is adherent to bone, the separation of the cicatrix with a tenotome, or the removal of a portion of the bone, will often be followed by improvement in its condition. Painful Cicatrix.—This condition results from the implication of a nerve in the cicatrix, producing a certain amount of neuritis from the con- tracting fibrous tissue of the scar. When a painful cicatrix is small or of moderate size, the best treatment consists in dissecting it out and filling the resulting gap by sliding flaps of skin. If, however, the cicatrix be too extensive for this operation, relief from pain may be afforded by performing neurotomy, neurectomy, or nerve-stretching upon the nerves entering the cicatrix. Keloid.—This is a form of disease in cicatrices which is characterized by hypertrophy of the scar-tissue, and is seen especially in the scars follow- ing burns, but may also develop in those following other varieties of wounds. It was formerly the custom to divide these growths into the true and the false, according as the keloid had its origin in the normal skin or in a pre-existing scar, but this distinction is not now recognized. The scar becomes thickened and irregular, hard projections form upon its surface, the surface of the hypertrophied tissue often presents dilated veins, and claw-like processes