884 THORACOPLASTY. purulent matter will escape from the opening. A stout flexible metallic probe with an eye in its point is bent and passed into the wound, and is made to project in the intercostal space between the eighth and ninth ribs. This is cut down upon, and, when exposed, is pushed out of the lower wound ; it is then attached to a large-sized rubber drainage-tube and with- drawn, and as this is done the tube is carried through the pleural cavity. If it is found that the ribs are so close together that the tube is compressed sufficiently to interfere with drainage, a small portion of the upper sur- face of the rib may be removed with gouge forceps to make room for the tube. The ends of the tube are then transfixed with safety-pins and cut off flush with the skin. It is often well to introduce also a short drainage- tube several inches in length into the lower wound, to secure additional drainage. As a rule, irrigation of the pleural cavity is to be avoided unless the pus is offensive, when the cavity may be irrigated with warm sterilized water, or a solution of tincture of iodine f'3i to sterilized water one pint, or a 1 to 8000 bichloride solution. The skin surrounding the opening of the drainage- tube should be washed with bichloride solution, and the tubes should be covered with a piece of protective or rubber tissue, which often acts as a valve over the mouth of the tubes, allowing the discharge to escape, but preventing the entrance of air ; a copious dressing of sterilized or bichloride gauze and cotton is placed over the opening of the tube and held in position by a bandage. The dressings should be renewed as soon as they become soaked, usually within twelve or twenty-four hours, and subsequent dress- ings will be required less frequently. At the end of a week or ten days, if the amount of discharge is diminishing, the tubes may be shortened, or one may be removed ; and at the end of two or three weeks, if there is only a little thin discharge from the remaining tube, it may be removed, and the wound then usually closes iu a few days. If this method of incision and drainage is employed, and the case is not one of very long standing with great thickening of the pleura, the lung expands, and a satisfactory result is obtained. That simple drainage in many cases is not followed by a cure is due to the fact that a very small tube is introduced and free drainage is not established. However, in long-standing cases, or cases in which a spontaneous opening has occurred at some point of the chest, and there is a sinus with great thickening of the pleura which prevents free exposure of the cavity, a more radical operation has to be resorted to—that is, the ex- cision of a portion of one or more ribs. In the treatment of the empyemas of children, owing to the elasticity of the chest-walls, we have seldom had to resort to excision of the ribs, a satisfactory result usually following in- cision and drainage. In these cases there is often a certain amount of deformity of the chest by the falling in of the wall towards the lung to obliterate the pleural cavity. Thoracoplasty.—Estlander's Operation.—This operation consists in exposing and removing several inches of several contiguous ribs, so that the chest-walls can fall inward and come in contact with the pulmonary pleura, thus obliterating the cavity. This procedure has proved a most valuable one in cases of long-standing empyema which have ruptured spontaneously