296 AMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. behind. The soft parts upon the dorsum of the foot are next separated from the astragalus by an elevator; the calcaneo-cuboid and astragalo- scaphoid joints are then opened from above, and the whole of the heel, together with the os calcis and the astragalus, is removed; the lower ends of the tibia and fibula and the joint surfaces of the scaphoid and cuboid are next removed with a saw. The cut surfaces of the bone are then brought together and held in contact by sutures; a gauze dressing is applied, and over this a plaster of Paris dressing, including the foot and leg. The patient after the wound is healed is usually compelled to wear a specially con- structed shoe. As the result of this operation the limb is sometimes a little lengthened, so that it becomes necessary to wear a high shoe upon the sound foot to equalize the length of the limbs. AMPUTATIONS OF THE LEG. The leg may be amputated in its lower, middle, or upper third, the rule being to save as much of the limb as possible, but as regards the applica- tion of artificial limbs we think the stumps resulting from amputation in the middle and upper thirds will be found more satisfactory than those from amputation just above the ankle. In sawing the bones it is of advantage to divide the fibula at a slightly higher point than the tibia. The leg may be amputated by the circular, modified circular, oval, or elliptical method, the long anterior rectangular flap method (Teale), or the external flap method (Sedillot). The choice of method will depend somewhat upon the portion of the leg at which the amputation is to be performed. In the lower third of the leg the circular or modified circular method is usually employed. In the middle and upper third the elliptical method or that of Sedillot may be employed with advantage. Hemorrhage is controlled during the operation in amputations of the leg by applying the tourniquet or elastic strap to the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle or just above or below the knee. Circular Method.—In amputating the leg in the lower third a circu- lar incision is made through the skin and connective tissue just above the malleoli, and a cuff is dissected up for a sufficient distance; a circular in- cision of the tendons and muscles is next made, dividing all the tissues down to the bone. The interosseous membrane is next divided with a narrow knife, a retractor is applied to hold back the soft parts, and the bones are divided with a saw. The Modified Circular or Oval Method—In this method of am- putation of the leg two oval flaps of skin and connective tissue are made, either antero-posterior or lateral; these are dissected up. A circular division of the muscles is next made down to the bone, the interosseous membrane is divided, and, the soft parts being held out of the way by a retractor, the bones are divided with a saw. (Fig. 236.) Sedillot's, or External Flap Method—In this method of ampu- tation of the leg the point of the knife is entered a finger-breadth external Fig. 236. Oval amputation of the leg.