IMPOTENCE. 1157 enucleate the seminal vesicles, a large steel sound being passed into the bladder to aid in protecting that organ. The result of these operations is still uncertain. Tumors of the seminal vesicles are so rare as not to require description. COWPER'S GLANDS. Inflammation.—Cowper's glands are sometimes, although seldom, subject to inflammation as a consequence of acute gonorrhoea. The devel- opment of this complication can be recognized by deep-seated lateral pain and tenderness in the perineum, sometimes associated with retention of urine. Examination by the rectum will serve to exclude acute prostatitis, and also ischio-rectal abscess, which would lie nearer the anus. Treat- ment.—Cold applications should be made to the perineum, laxatives given, and the patient confined to bed in hopes that the inflammation may be dissipated. If suppuration takes place, as shown by the occurrence of chills or an irregular hectic curve in the temperature, an incision should be made as early as possible. The abscesses are not so deep as those of the prostate, and the incision should be a lateral one just external to the bulb of the urethra. Tumors also develop in Cowper's glands, but they are of great rarity. They can be distinguished from tumors of the urethra by the symp- toms, which are referred rather to the region of the rectum than to the urethra, rectal tenesmus or pain in defecation being present, while there is no retention of urine until the tumor reaches a large size, because its de- velopment takes place mainly towards the rectum. The diagnosis will sel- dom be made early enough to allow of successful treatment, as the tumors are usually malignant. IMPOTENCE, STERILITY, AND FUNCTIONAL DISEASES. By impotence is meant the inability to indulge in coition, which may be the result of congenital or acquired defects in the organs of generation, such as absence of the penis or testicles, or of loss of the power of erection. The latter may be due to imperfect circulation in the penis owing to an enlarged dorsal vein or damage to the erectile tissues, or it may be of nervous origin from exhaustion of the lumbar centres or weakness of the entire system. It may also be the result of certain mental states, such as fright, disgust, or mere self-consciousness. Treatment.—Certain of these conditions do not admit of remedy, while others may be treated successfully by removal of their cause. A strong mental impression will often overcome impotence if it is due to psychical causes, although some of these cases are the most difficult to cure. The use of electricity, either galvanic or faradic. applied from the lumbar region obliquely down to the pubic bone and in the perineum, or with one electrode in the rectum and the other at the peno scrotal junction, has a definite value, although its effect is probably mainly a psychical one. In any case where there is a psychical element, as well as in cases of sexual neurasthenia or exhaustion, and of incomplete development, it is wise to prohibit all attempts at sexual intercourse during the course of treatment, or to allow them only at long intervals when there seems considerable hope of their