163 IODOFORM. solution of this strength benumbs and cracks the skin of the surgeon's hands, and it should therefore be diluted before the instruments are required by adding an equal quantity of hot water. A 1 to 60 solution is employed in the irrigation of wounds and the washing of sponges. A ready method of making a five per cent, carbolic solution is to add one tablespoonful of carbolic acid to one pint and a half of water. The continued use of carbolic acid solution may give rise to poisoning, which will show itself by dark- colored urine, headache, dizziness, vomiting, and in some cases bloody diar- rhoea, hemoglobinuria, collapse, and death. The use of weak solutions of carbolic acid seems to involve more risk of toxic action than does the em- ployment of the pure drag, the superficial layer of tissue being coagulated by the latter, so that the absorption of the drug is prevented. Gangrene of the skin and subjacent tissues has frequently been observed to follow the long-continued use of quite dilute solu- tions of carbolic acid or of ointments Fig. 91. containing small quantities of the drug. r Cases of gangrene of the fingers and toes from this cause are not infrequently seen. (Fig. 91.) Infants and children seem es- pecially susceptible to the poisonous ac- tion of carbolic acid. We have seen the use of dilute solutions produce the char- acteristic symptoms of poisoning in such patients. Fatal poisoning has followed the application of a 1 to 40 solution to Small WOUnds, SUCh as the WOUnd Of Cir- Gangrene of toes from carbolic acid dressing. cumcision. Iodoform.—Iodoform has been shown by experimental research to pos- sess little direct germicidal action, but in spite of this fact clinical experi- ence has proved that it possesses powerful antiseptic properties, due, as shown by Behring and De Euyter, not to the destruction of germs, but to its undergoing a decomposition in their presence and thus rendering inert the ptomaines which have resulted from the germ-growth. It may be ren- dered absolutely sterile by exposing it to heat, and, as it- is easily de- composed, fractional sterilization may be employed, or by washing it in a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution; it should then be dried and kept for use in closely stoppered bottles. Iodoform is very extensively employed as an application to wounds. It is frequently employed in aseptic wounds which are liable from their position to become infected, such as wounds about the mouth, rectum, and vagina, and is especially useful as a dressing in in- fected wounds and in tubercular or syphilitic ulcers. In operations upon the mouth, anus, rectum, uterus, and abdominal cavity iodoform gauze packing is largely employed, and serves to keep the discharges from be- coming foul, thus often preventing septic intoxication. Iodoform may be used in the form of powder. Iodoform collodion, made by adding iodoform, gr. xlviii, to collodion, fgi, is a useful dressing in superficial wounds. It may be also employed in the form of an ethereal solution, iodoform, gr. xv, ether, f §i? as an application to wounds or ulcers. An emulsion of iodoform