669 GENU RECURVATUM. xequently associated with knock-knee and flat-foot. The deformity seems ;o be largely due to muscular force exerted upon the softened bones by the posterior muscles of the leg. The appearance presented by a well-marked ;ase of anterior tibial curvature is shown in Fig. 606. Treatment.—The treatment in this condition consists in a cuneiform >steotomy of the tibia and fibula at the point of greatest curvature, with subcutaneous division of the tendo Achillis and fixation of the limb in the 3orrected position by a plaster of Paris bandage. In mild cases linear os- :eotomy may correct the deformity satisfactorily, but in cases of marked leformity it will be found necessary to perform a cuneiform osteotomy of Fig. 607. Anterior tibial curvature. Result of cuneiform osteotomy for anterior tibial curvature. the tibia and a simple section of the fibula and to divide the tendo Achillis before the deformity can be corrected. In performing cuneiform osteotomy in these cases the bones are exposed by turning up a flap or by a transverse incision, when a wedge of bone of sufficient size is removed by a chisel from the tibia, and the fibula is divided ; the tendo Achillis is next divided, and, after closing the wounds and applying a gauze dressing, the leg is held in the corrected position and a plaster of Paris bandage is applied ; fenestra? may be cut over the wounds if subsequent dressing is required. The result of a cuneiform osteotomy for anterior tibial curvature is shown in Fig. 607. GENU RECURVATUM. This is a deformity in which the knee is hyperextended upon the thigh, presenting a prominence behind the joint. (Fig. 608.) The condition may be slightly developed, or may be so marked as to constitute a serious de- formity and prevent flexion of the leg upon the thigh. It seems to be due to stretching and relaxation of the posterior ligaments of the knee, with marked contraction of the anterior portion of the capsular and lateral liga- ments of the joint.