RESECTION OF A METACARPAL BONE. 641 and the articular ends of the radius and ulna divided with a saw ; the ends of the metacarpal bones, if diseased, should next be removed. After the bones have been excised and the hemorrhage has been controlled, the wound should be drained and closed, a gauze dressing applied, and the forearm and arm secured upon a well-padded straight splint. As soon as the wound is healed the splint should be abandoned, as in this joint it is desirable to have a certain amount of motion. The patient should be encouraged to move the fingers, and also to make motions at the wrist to secure a movable joint. Resection of a Metacarpal Bone.—A metacarpal bone may be re- sected by making a longitudinal incision on the back of the hand over the bone to be removed. The incision should extend from one articular end of the bone to the other, and as it is deepened care should be taken not to divide the extensor tendons ; these, when exposed, should be held to one side by a retractor, and, the periosteum being exposed, it should be separated as far as possible from the bone. When the bone has been fully exposed Fig. 566. Resection of a metacarpal bone. Excision of a metacarpophalangeal joint. (Smith.) it may be removed by dividing it at the middle with bone-cutting pliers (Fig. 566) and then disarticulating each fragment separately, or the articu- lar ends may be disarticulated and the bone removed in one piece. All incisions employed in detaching the anterior surface of the bone should be made with great care, to avoid injury of the structures of the palm of the hand. Excision of a Metacarpo-Phalangeal Joint or an Interpha- langeal Joint.—In excising a metacarpo-phalangeal joint, the joint is exposed by a longitudinal incision over the dorsal surface of the knuckle. The extensor tendon being exposed and held to one side, the lateral liga- ments are divided. The articular ends of the bones, being exposed, are next removed with a metacarpal saw or with bone-cutting pliers. (Fig. 567.) In excising an interphalangeal joint an incision may be made upon 41