881 PLEURITIC EFFUSIONS. region. Malignant growths of the mediastinum are either sarcomata, earci- noinata, or lymphomata. Sarcoma is the form of disease most commonly met with, and usually involves the anterior mediastinum. Carcinoma of the mediastinum occurs next in point of frequency. These growths may occur either as primary or as secondary affections. Symptoms.—The principal symptoms of mediastinal tumor are pain, dyspnoea, cough, oedema of the neck from obstruction of the venous return, dilated veins, displacement of the heart, and in some cases disturbance of function of the pneumogastric nerves, if they are included in the growth. Treatment.—The removal of mediastinal tumors is an operation attended with great danger, and can be accomplished with safety to the patient in rare cases only. The operation necessitates the removal of a portion of the sternum and ribs, and when the tumor is exposed it is often found that it is so firmly attached to important structures in the thorax that its removal cannot be safely accomplished. PLEURITIC EFFUSIONS. Collections of fluid in the pleural cavity may occur from injury of the chest, or from acute or chronic inflammatory affections of the pleura or lungs ; pleural effusions may also result from tumors of the pleura, causing obstruction of the venous circulation. Acute pleural effusions are serous unless they result from injury to the chest or thoracic viscera, in which case they often contain a certain amount of blood. Chronic pleural effusions are usually purulent, and may arise from the infection of acute effusions by staphylococci, streptococci, or diplococci, or may be caused by tubercular pleurisy, and in such cases pyogenic organisms are present. Pleural effu- sions may form rapidly or slowly ; as a rule, the effusions following acute pleurisy accumulate very rapidly, and the pleural sac is often almost filled with fluid in twenty-four or thirty six hours. Slowly forming effusions, on the other hand, generally result from the presence of tumors or from tuber- cular pleurisy ; in the latter case there is usiially marked thickening of the pleura itself. A serous effusion may become purulent from infection by pyogenic organisms or from the bursting of au adjacent abscess into the pleural sac. Symptoms.—The prominent symptoms of pleural effusions, whether serous or purulent, are dyspnoea, rapidity and feebleness of the pulse, ele- vation of the temperature, and bulging of the intercostal spaces on the affected side, as well as dulness upon percussion, most marked at the base of the chest, the line of dulness varying with the position of the patient. The patient generally rests upon the affected side. The apex beat of the heart is usually displaced to one side, according to the position and amount of the effusion ; displacement of the apex beat to the right side is always more marked than displacement to the left. Respiratory murmur is weak or absent over the portion of the chest occupied by the effusion, and vocal fremitus is absent, while over the lung compressed by the effusion bronchial breathing may be heard. Although in most cases the presence of effusion can be clearly made out by the physical signs, yet it is often well to verify the diagnosis by the use of the aspirator or exploring trocar. These instru-