1099 VESICAL CALCULUS. In the first method a large suprapubic opening is made, a rectal balloon is inserted to force the prostate up within reach of the finger, and the hypertrophied portion of the gland is removed. Wedge-shaped pieces may be excised and a channel formed for the urethra, or that canal may be re- lieved of pressure by incising the mucous membrane and enucleating por- tions of the growth with the finger-tip or blunt instruments, such as a bone rongeur. This operation is best suited for cases of hypertrophy of the median lobe, in which the tumor is frequently pedunculated, and can be easily excised by the thermo-cautery, or after ligation of its pedicle. Hem- orrhage is controlled by the cautery or by pressure, and if necessary the bladder may be packed full of gauze at the end of the operation in order to maintain pressure for a long period. Drainage must be employed in every case, and if the organ is packed, the drainage-tube must be run down through the packing so as to drain off the urine from the trigonum. The perineal method of attacking the prostate, suggested by Dittel, con- sists in a transverse or horseshoe-shaped incision in the perineum, described in the chapter on diseases of the prostate, by which the external surface of the prostate is exposed. Wedge-shaped pieces are excised from the en- larged lobes, and after their removal the gland tends to fall together, so that its inner surface, which interferes with the passage of the urine by projection into the urethra, falls away from that canal and the passage is made clear. Alexander exposes and incises the capsule of the prostate by a median perineal incision and inserts a finger through a suprapubic opening in the bladder. The finger in the bladder is used as a guide while portions of the gland are enucleated through the perineal wound without injuriug the vesical mucous membrane. These operations are difficult and tedious, and there is very great danger of sepsis. The patients, moreover, are old and feeble, as a rule, and do not bear even slight operations well, and hence the mortality is very high. Prostatectomy, therefore, is an operation which should be undertaken only on comparatively young individuals with a healthy bladder and in good condition otherwise. The treatment of choice is the use of the catheter, and when this is contra-indicated by a tendency to develop a severe cystitis or by the presence of advanced kidney-disease, the vasa deferentia should be ligated or the testicles removed. Prostatectomy is especially indicated for pedunculated tumors which directly obstruct the vesical exit. Vesical Calculus.—Stone in the bladder is most frequent at the two extremes of age, and is almost limited to the male sex. It is rare in the negro race. Its frequency in children is due to the fact that at birth the kid- ney contains numerous infarctions of crystallized uric acid in the urinary tubules, which are slowly washed out, and if there is any obstruction to their passage from the bladder they form a nucleus around which a stone may grow. In old age, on the other hand, the causes of calculus are usually those which excite cystitis, and the stones at this period of life are generally phosphatic on this account. In the poor calculus is most common in childhood, but in the well-to-do in old age. Every vesical calculus has a nucleus of some kind, such as a crystal of uric acid, a mass of inspissated mucus, or a small foreign body. The uric acid or the phosphatic salts are deposited in layers