972 DIAGNOSIS OF ABDOMINAL TUMORS. about, showing that it is external to the muscles. An accumulation of fat in the omentum or mesentery is not so easily distinguished from a tumor, but rarely forms well-defined masses. Tympanites is unlikely to be mistaken for a tumor, but its existence frequently masks the presence of the latter. An error due to a distended bladder is easily eliminated by the passage of a catheter. Fecal masses in the intestine are deceptive, but they can generally be recognized by their doughy consistency, which allows them to be moulded between the fingers, and in doubtful cases the administration of a purgative will clear up the difficulty. Some hysterical individuals have the power of imitating the presence of abdominal tumors by throwing the muscles into irregular contraction and forcing the distended intestine forward in tumor-like masses. It may be necessary to administer an anaes- thetic before this condition can be excluded, for with the muscular relaxa- tion of anaesthesia the so-called "phantom tumor" melts away. Inflam- matory masses, consisting of adherent omentum and bowel and solid peritoneal exudate or encapsulated abscesses, often resemble neoplasms of the abdominal organs, but can be distinguished from them by the history of some previous inflammatory condition. Inflammatory masses, as a rule, are fixed to the abdominal wall at some point; they are not so distinctly outlined as the neoplasms, are more irregular in shape, not so hard, and are tender to pressure. We have, however, seen a small abscess surrounded by omentum which was freely movable in the abdomen, and such movable abscesses are not uncommon in tuberculous peritonitis. Cold abscesses often simulate neoplasms in the abdomen or pelvis, and when a fluctuating tumor is found in the lumbar or the iliac region, the spine, the pelvic bones, and the hip-joints should be carefully examined, for evidence of disease there will indicate that the mass is an abscess. Enlarged mesenteric glands may be taken for other tumors, but their fixed median situation and multiple or nodular character should reveal their nature. Diagnosis of the Organ affected.—The most important thing to be determined about a tumor is its origin. The situation which it occupies, and its attachments to the liver, stomach, intestines, uterus, or other organs, must be carefully studied by palpation and percussion, for in the majority of cases the tumor originates from the organ to which it is attached. But the fact that any organ may be displaced from its natural position should never be overlooked, for a floating kidney or spleen might present itself as a tumor in the pelvis, and search must be made to prove that the organs are nor- mally situated. In addition to the facts already given, the following points will be of assistance in the diagnosis. Tumors of the anterior abdominal wall lie very superficially, and are movable when the abdomen is relaxed, but instantly become fixed if the abdominal muscles are made tense by causing the patient to lift the head and shoulders as he lies on the back, or by making him cough. Tumors of the stomach are very difficult to palpate, as they generally lie well up under the ribs or the border of the liver, but they become more evident if the stomach is distended by food or by air or water. A tumor at the pylorus moves downward and to the right with distention of the stomach. Occasionally, however, a tumor of the stomach is found low down in the ab-