988 TREATMENT OF HERNIA. the spring is properly shaped and applied, but in some cases a very heavy spring is necessary. The form of spring surrounding the ruptured side of the body is not quite so efficient as that which passes around the sound side, because its support in the back is on the opposite side and the pressure is not so direct, but it is easier to fit because it lies naturally in the fold of the groin, and is therefore very popular. A truss consisting of an elastic band with a pad is a favorite with some, but it is much less efficient and direct in its pressure than the spring trusses, and should be limited to use at night. Fig. 798. German truss for right inguinal hernia. When the surgeon is fitting a patient with a truss he should reduce the hernia and press lightly over the point of exit while the patient coughs and makes various movements, in order to determine the amount of pressure which will be necessary to hold the hernia. Having selected a spring of the proper strength, the pad is applied over the point of exit, the spring is passed around the body, and the truss is secured by the strap. The patient again makes efforts of coughing and of stooping, to ascertain if the truss is efficient. But it should be remembered that a pressure that is readily borne for a short time may be sufficient to produce destructive changes in the skin at the point of contact if long continued; therefore the lightest possible pressure consistent with retention should be used in every case. It will fre- quently be impossible to put on a truss which will retain the hernia during coughing, and the patient must be directed to press upon the pad with his hand whenever he coughs. After the lapse of a few days or weeks, however, the truss will often prove sufficient to hold the hernia even during coughing, some contraction of the ring having taken place. In oblique inguinal hernia the pad should be placed directly over the internal ring, not over the exter- nal, nor over the neck of the sac still lower down. In cases of femoral her- nia the spring must be twisted so that the pad shall press directly upward when the patient stands erect, as the femoral ring lies in a horizontal plane in that position. Even in inguinal hernia, when the patient has a prominent abdomen, the spring must be twisted so that the pad will press almost directly upward, and it is very difficult in such individuals to secure suffi- cient pressure to retain the hernia. In thin persons, on the contrary, the pad has a tendency to ride up on the abdomen, and must be held in place by a perineal strap, which should pass downward from the pad around the inner side of the thigh, and follow the crease of the buttock to the spring