650 EXCISION OF THE UPPER JAW. sutures, and the wound closed and drained, and, after a gauze dressing has been applied, the foot and leg should be included in a plaster of Paris dress- ing. The deformity resulting after excision of the os calcis is very marked, but if the operation has been a subperiosteal one the function of the muscles exerted through the tendo Achillis may be more or less retained. We have resorted to excision of the os calcis in a case of compound comminuted frac- ture of the os calcis and in a case of necrosis following frost-bite, and in both the functional result was very satisfactory. Resection of the Metatarsal Bones.—Resection of these bones may be required for disease. The operation is performed by making an incision on the dorsum of the foot over the bone Fig. 580. to be removed; the bone being exposed, and the extensor tendons being held aside by retractors, it is disarticulated at either end, or is cut in its middle and each frag- ment dissected up and removed at its ar- ticulation. The metatarsal bone of the great toe is exposed by making a curved incision over that bone on the inner side of the foot. Incision for excision ol the metatarsal bone of the great toe. (Smith.) (Fig. 580.) Excision of the Coccyx.—Excision of this bone may be required for disease or for a painful neuralgic condition known as coccygodynia. In removing the coccyx the finger should first be passed into the rectum and the position of the bone determined ; a longitudi- nal incision through the skin and fibrous tissue covering the coccyx is next made, beginning about a quarter of an inch above its upper limit, and is car- ried down to the bone, extending a little below its lower extremity. The incision is deepened until the surface of the bone is exposed, and retractors are applied, so as thoroughly to dilate the wound ; if it is found that more space is needed, the incision may be supplemented by a transverse one. The sacro-coccygeal articulation is next carefully opened, and an elevator is introduced into the articulation and the bone raised and grasped with forceps; it should then be separated from its lateral attachments, and from those upon its anterior surface, with a knife and an elevator. As the wound resulting from excision of this bone is a deep one, it is well to introduce a drainage-tube before bringing the edges of the wound together with sutures. After applying a gauze dressing, which is held in place by broad strips of adhesive plaster, the patient should be kept at rest upon the side or the back, and the bowels should be kept quiet for a few days. Excision of the Upper Jaw.—Excision of the upper jaw may be re- quired on account of necrosis of this bone or for malignant or non-malignant growths, or may be employed to facilitate the removal of naso pharyngeal tumors. The operation is one attended with considerable hemorrhage, which may itself cause a fatal issue ; but if this is not excessive, union of the parts after the bone has been excised is usually rapid, and the resulting deformity is much less than would be expected from so serious a mutila- tion. When the operation is performed for sarcomatous or carcinomatous growths springing from the upper jaw, a permanent cure is seldom effected,