INGROWING TOE-NAIL. 312 between the corner of the nail and the skin which projects over it, will effect a cure. An over-saturated solution of alum (3vi to ^i of hot water) will assist the action of the lint by its astringent action, or tincture of benzoin and collodion may be applied on the lint. In severer cases a pro- longed treatment may be necessary before the lint can be inserted. The lint treatment, although apparently mild, is as painful as a cutting oper- ation, and will often necessitate the use of cocaine. Of the various opera- tions, Anger's will give the best results for ordinary cases. A narrow sharp-pointed knife is made to transfix the soft parts on the affected side, just grazing the bone at a point level with the highest extent of the matrix, and is carried forward so as to cut a flap from the side of the toe, the flap being as wide as possible, and with its apex well forward at the end of the toe. This flap is held aside, and the knife applied to the bone inside of the base of the flap, directed forward, and the matrix shaved off the side of the bone with a strip of nail and the affected area of soft parts. The flap is returned and secured in place with two or three sutures. Every possible antiseptic precaution must be employed, and primary union will generally be obtained for the greater part of the wound. It is best to keep the foot at rest, but we have obtained perfect results in patients who insisted upon going about during healing. For cases with much infection of the soft parts Cotting's operation is preferable. In this method no flap is cut, but the knife is carried down to the bone at the same high point, so as to include the entire matrix at that side, and carried forward in a sweep, so as to slice off at once the entire side of the toe, matrix, corresponding nail, and soft parts. The wound is left to granulate. The method is a good one, but healing is sometimes tedious on account of the large size of the wound. We have used skin-grafts from the excised skin to cover the raw surface with success. Finally, for cases which obstinately recur, or in which the nail has become greatly deformed or the entire matrix inflamed, it is best to extir- pate the entire nail and matrix. A rectangular flap of skin is turned up from the base of the nail, with the base of the flap directed upward to- wards the foot, and the matrix removed thoroughly with the knife. It is exceedingly difficult to eradicate the matrix entirely, especially the two points which run high up on each side of the phalanx. For all these operations cocaine anaesthesia may be employed. In our hands these opera- tions are preferable to the old plan of avulsion of the nail, being less likely to be followed by recurrence, and not involving any more delay or suffering for the patient.