TREATMENT OF HYPOSPADIAS. 1071 ways. (1) The escape of the urine may be maintained by the perineal open- ing in the complete cases or by establishing perineal or suprapubic drainage beforehand. (2) A catheter may be passed through the urethra and left in the bladder to drain the urine ; but this method is not so reliable, because a certain amount of urine leaks by the side of the catheter and reaches the sur- faces of the wound. (3) Finally, the urine may be drawn regularly by the catheter passed by the urethra, the latter being kept clear of urine by the following method. The urethra is thoroughly irrigated, the catheter intro- duced, and the urine drawn off; a small amount of salt solution is then thrown into the bladder and allowed to remain, so that when the catheter is withdrawn the few drops which follow its point are the harmless salt solu- tion instead of urine. The patients can sometimes be induced to retain the urine for from eight to twelve hours at a time, so as to reduce the number of catheterizations as much as possible. In operating upon the glandular cases, or to close a communication between the new urethra and the old in the penile portion, it is often sufficient to cause the patient to immerse the penis in a vessel of water during urination, the fluid being thus diluted at once, and to irrigate the urethra immediately afterwards. The main difficulty of these operations is not in making the canal, but in closing the connection between the different portions after they are constructed, small sinuses often persist- ing, which are exceedingly difficult to close, in spite of the most careful at- tempts. If the sinuses are very small, it is better to cauterize their edges with nitric acid and so excite cicatricial contraction. The penis is usually very small in these cases and may be sharply flexed, and it is necessary first to restore it to the proper position. This is accom- plished by cutting transversely across the skin which binds it down and then uniting the edges of the transverse wound in a longitudinal direction, dissecting up the tissue in the neighborhood so that it may slide more easily, or utilizing the loose skin of the prepuce to fill the gap. This preliminary operation should be done at a very early period, even at two or three years Fig. 829. Normal urethra. Dilatation. Dislocation. Diverticulum. Some deformities of the female urethra: A, bladder; B, symphysis. (Routh.) of age, but the rest of the work should be left until the patient is nine or ten years old and the parts have reached sufficient size to enable flaps to be cut and readily handled. A longer delay is not to be recommended, be- cause the erections of the organ are apt to be troublesome in the adult.