820 IRIDECTOMY. Serous iritis may be caused by syphilis, rheumatism, menstrual dis- orders, aud anaemia so far as this is representative of blood dyscrasia. The usual treatment is required, except that atropine must be cautiously employed, because there is a tendency to rise of tension and secondary glaucoma. Under these circumstances either paracentesis of the cornea or iridectomy may be required. Tumors and Cysts of the Iris.—Delicate transparent cysts occasion- ally form in the iris, and others having solid contents, which take their origin in a cilium which has passed into the anterior chamber, the so-called "implantation cyst," may arise. Several varieties of small solid tumors may develop in this tissue : (a) Grayish-red nodules, especially at the margin of the pupil, miliary growths, in fact, which on examination prove to be tubercles containing bacilli and giant-cells. (Z>) Sarcoma of the iris, which usually appears be- tween the twentieth and fortieth years. It commonly arises in the lower portion of the iris, and is generally pigmented, (c) Granulomata of the iris, which are small growths, and in some instances appear to be the fore- runners of sarcoma and in others are closely analogous to tubercle of the iris. A cyst or small sarcoma of the iris may be removed, together with the involved iris-tissue, by means of a broad iridectomy. If, however, the deeper structures are involved and the disease has begun to spread, enuclea- tion is indicated. OPERATIONS UPON THE IRIS. Iridectomy.—In all operations upon the eye the following preparation of the patient should be made. The closed lids, eyebrows, and surrounding facial area should be sterilized in the ordinary way with soap and water, followed by a bichloride douche. The conjunctival cul-de-sac should be cleansed by flushing it with a tepid solution of boric acid. The use of strong germicides is contra-indicated. For an hour preceding the operation the eye should be covered with a preparatory bandage, which consists of a pad soaked in a solution of bichloride of mercury 1 to 5000, held in place with a few turns of a sterile gauze roller. All instruments should first be placed in boiling water, from that transferred to absolute alcohol, and finally covered with sterile water. Solutions of atropine, cocaine, and similar drugs, before being dropped into an eye, should be sterilized by boiling, as they are very prone to accept contamination of all kinds. The following instruments are required for an iridectomy : a stop specu- lum, fixation forceps, bent keratome, iris forceps, iris hook, iris scissors, and small spatula. In place of the bent keratome a Graefe cataract-knife may be used. Operation.—The eye being cocainized, the surgeon stands behind his patient, and if using the bent keratome, the point of the knife is brought in contact with the apparent corneo-scleral margin, or, in some instances, about a millimetre from the junction of the sclera with the cornea, and in a direction at right angles to the cornea, which direction it keeps until the point just penetrates the anterior chamber. The handle is then well de- pressed, so that the point of the knife shall not wound the iris or the lens,