685 CHAPTER XXIV. SURGERY OF THE HEAD. THE SCALP. Injuries.—While the scalp is naturally protected from injury by the hair, it is much exposed to certain lesions on account of its situation upon the vertex and the hard skull beneath it. Contusions of the scalp are marked by the amount of effused blood and serum which collects in the loose connective tissue under the skin, and causes great swelling, sometimes an inch or more in thickness. On account of the underlying curved surface of bone, blows on the scalp with blunt bodies often produce rather sharp-cut wounds instead of contusions, the edges of which may, however, be so much contused as to be liable to gangrene. If the force is applied at a tangent to the skull, the soft parts may be detached, forming undermined pockets or large ragged flaps. Incised wounds of the scalp are not very common, and do not differ from those in other situations except that the hemorrhage is profuse and may even be fatal. The arrest of the hemorrhage may be difficult, because the forceps do not hold well in the tough scalp, and it may be necessary to grasp its entire thickness with them. Ligatures are apt to slip off, but fortunately are seldom needed, as compression will answer. If the bleeding is very difficult to control, a suture should be passed through the scalp around the divided vessel. Haematoma of the scalp from con- tusions is peculiar in that it is surrounded by a hard cedeniatous zone and the blood coagulates first at the edges, leaving a soft centre which may per- sist for some time and may closely resemble a depressed fracture of the skull. If the blood is effused between the pericranium and the skull, a ring of fibrous tissue, or even of new bone, may form, and remain permanently at the site of the injury. This is most often seen in the newly born infant as the result of the caput succedaneum. If a large vessel be injured, a pulsating haematoma may be formed, which requires an incision with liga- ture of the bleeding vessel lest an aneurism form later. Treatment.—The treatment of these injuries is the same as elsewhere, contusions being best treated by cold and astringent applications, and an ice-bag will often answer. Massage may be useful to promote absorption of the oedema and the blood-clot. A haematoma may suppurate and form an abscess requiring incision, and in cases of very large and persistent haematomata it may be necessary to drain away the blood by aspiration or by small incisions. Incised wounds, and even wounds which are contused and lacerated, may be closed by sutures with safety, provided full aseptic precau- tions are taken. The hair must be cut away and the scalp shaved for an area of two or three inches from the wound in all directions, and all hair and foreign bodies should be picked out of the wound. The wound and the