300 AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. Method by Transfixion.—Amputation of the thigh by transfixion is not much practised at the present time, but was formerly a popular opera- tion on account of the rapidity with which it could be performed. In this method of amputating a long knife was entered at the outer portion of the thigh, carried over the femur, and brought out at a corresponding point on the inner portion of the thigh ; a flap of sufficient length was then cut by carry- ing the knife downward and bringing it out to the surface of the skin (Fig. 242); the knife was then entered behind the Fig. 242. Fig. 241. Amputation of the thigh by the modified eir- Amputation of the thigh by transfixion. (Bryant.) cular method. bone at the same point, and a posterior flap was cut from within outward. In amputations of the thigh the femoral artery and femoral vein require the application of ligatures ; also, in high amputations, the profunda or branches of the profunda, and numerous muscular branches. AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. The gravity of this operation depends largely upon the amount of blood that is lost during the procedure, and various methods of controlling bleed- ing have therefore been devised. Hemorrhage during hip-joint amputations was formerly controlled by digital pressure upon the artery, by the use of the abdominal tourniquet, or by Davy's lever, which made compression on the aorta or iliac artery through the rectum, or by compression of the abdominal aorta by the hand by Macewen's method. Esmarch's elastic strap has also been employed during amputations at the hip-joint, the strap being applied in such a manner that it occupies the position of a spica bandage of the groin. The method devised by Wyeth of controlling hemorrhage during amputations at the hip-joint is described later. Jordan and Senn have employed a method of amputating at the hip-joint, in which the head of the bone is first disarticulated through the external incision, and the bleeding is controlled before the amputation is completed by pass- ing an elastic strap or tube around the soft parts above the point where