INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 957 drainage if it is possible to remove all the infected tissue ; otherwise a small drain should be inserted. Nothing should be given to move the bowels for some days, for fear of rupturing the sutures at the stump of the appendix, for we have more than once seen this accident so caused. A fecal fistula may form in the wound as the result of perforation of the intestinal wall by the suppurative process, making the cavity of the bowel communicate with the abscess. Should this occur, the wound must be widely opened, thoroughly cleaned, and packed to its full extent. Healing by granulation will usually take place, and finally the fistula will be obliterated. If it should not, an operation will be neces- sary, but it should be postponed for several months. Hernia is very common after operations for appendicitis, especially in cases with abscess in which the wound has been packed, for the wide scar is a weak one and easily stretches. After every operation for appendicitis the patient should wear an abdominal belt, fitted with a hard rubber plate secured directly over the scar, for at least a year. If the abdominal wall shows signs of weakness, the belt should be continued, or the old scar may be excised and the wound sutured as in the operation for ventral hernia. INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. In the condition known as intestinal obstruction there may be simply a mechanical occlusion of the lumen of the bowel, or the occlusion may be accompanied by strangulation of the gut, and in some cases there may be strangulation without occlusion, as when the caecum or the appendix is strangulated. Intestinal obstruction may be compared to ordinary hernia, which may be obstructed or strangulated, or both. Varieties.—Clinically, we divide the cases of intestinal obstruction into acute, subacute, and chronic, and in the subacute and chronic varieties we recognize a complete and an incomplete obstruction, for in some cases a small amount of material is able to pass by the seat of obstruction. Intes- tinal obstruction is the result of various conditions, such as— (1) Paralysis. Paralysis of the bowel may be caused by peritonitis, by the compression in a strangulated hernia, or by a severe blow. It may be general or limited to a small loop of the bowel, and in the latter case the obstruction may not be complete, for the contents of the intestine may be pushed through the paralyzed loop by the active bowel above. Some cases of inflammation of the bowel-wall appear to be accompanied by paralysis and serious interference with the fecal movement. (2) Fecal impaction. If the contents of the bowel are allowed to accumulate, a hard mass is formed which is very difficult to break up. These collections are most frequently found in the rectum, but also in the sigmoid flexure and the ca3cuin. In extreme instances the entire large in- testine may be distended with feces, and in such cases the patient has been known to go without a movement of the bowels for two or three weeks. (3) Foreign bodies and gall-stones. A foreign body may be swal- lowed, or a large gall-stone may perforate the gall-bladder or ducts, and enter the intestine. Gall-stones are said to perforate the large intestine most fre- quently, but they also enter the small intestine, particularly the duodenum.