TUMORS OF THE PENIS. 1135 flat beak. Considerable force must be used in the injection in order thoroughly to wash out all the crevices, and a large quantity of water should be employed. Plain warm water answers the purpose, but a solu- tion of 1 to 50 carbolic acid, or of sulphate of zinc three grains to the ounce, may be tried. In all cases that do not respond at once to this treatment the patients should be urged to submit to circumcision, and even when a case does well it is wise to perform a circumcision afterwards in order to prevent a relapse. Syphilitic and tuberculous lesions develop in the penis and on its outer coverings, as has been described elsewhere. A rare form of tuberculosis is one which causes necrotic cavities in the centre of the cavernous tissue of the glans, the mucous membrane giving way over it and forming a deep ragged ulcer somewhat resembling a gumma. The cavernous tissue is liable to an interstitial inflammation, forming hard fibrous nodules which interfere with erection by shutting off the blood-supply or preventing uniform distention, which produces curvature of the organ. These fibrous indurations are most common in men of gouty habit, and occur late in life. There is no really satisfactory method of treatment. Lymphangitis and phlebitis are seen in the penis, usually as the result of venereal infection. Lymphangitis may take a chronic form that results in an cedematous thickening resembling elephantiasis, but true elephantiasis of the penis is rare in America. Varicose veins are seen in the penis, and in some cases they appar- ently interfere with erection by removing the blood too freely. We have succeeded in restoring the power of erection in such cases by ligature of the large dorsal vein. The real value of this procedure, however, is uncertain, on account of the rather hysterical nature of the individuals affected, and may be due to its psychical effect. Priapism.—Priapism is a condition of prolonged erection of the penis without sexual desire. It is usually a symptom of vesical or pelvic irrita- tion, or of some obscure brain or spinal cord lesion, and in some cases it appears to be due to exhaustion of the lumbar centres of the spinal cord from sexual excess. It is also seen in leukaemia. In many cases, however, its cause is not evident, and it therefore requires description among the diseases of the penis. The erection is usually painful and always uncom- fortable, and may last from twenty days to as many weeks. Antispasmodics are of little avail, and the application of ice locally and the protection of the organ from contact with the clothing and bedclothes is all that can be done in the way of treatment. In some cases an incision into the corpora cavernosa has been of benefit. This operation has sometimes been followed by loss of erectile power, but the same result has also been seen in cases not subjected to it. Tumors.—With the exception of papilloinata, the benign tumors of the penis are rare. Fibroma and lipoma occur, as well as sebaceous cysts, the last-named originating from the sebaceous glands of the skin, and also from those behind the corona. These tumors sometimes attain the size of a hen's egg and are a serious inconvenience in coition. Angioma is quite common, and usually originates from the blood-vessels, although lymphan-