1066 CHAPTER XXXVII. SURGERY OF THE URINARY ORGANS. THE URETHRA. Injuries.—The urethra is seldom wounded by objects penetrating from without, although gunshot wounds may open it, and pointed stakes may per- forate it in the perineum. It is sometimes lacerated in the female during parturition, or contused so that its walls slough, and urethro-vaginal fis- tulse are produced, which often involve the entire length of the canal, and almost invariably the vesical end. Plastic operations are sometimes under- taken for the repair of the fistula?, but if the vesical sphincter is involved they are of little practical utility. The urethra itself can be easily restored by methods similar to those described below for the relief of hypospadias. Similar sloughing may take place in the male as the result of severe con- tusions, but is most frequently seen from urinary extravasation. The most common injury of the male urethra is its subcutaneous laceration, or so- called rupture, which is generally the result of severe blows or falls upon the perineum, of fracture of the pelvis, or of the so-called "fracture of the penis." The rupture is usually situated upon the floor of the urethra. The symptoms of this injury are the escape of a few drops of blood from the meatus, difficult micturition or retention of urine, and the sudden appear- ance of a tumor formed by the extravasated urine near the seat of the injury when the patient attempts to urinate. If the case is neglected, the usual picture of urinary extravasation is seen, with the formation of a local ab- scess when a small amount escapes, or of an extensive swelling of the penis, scrotum, and front of the abdomen in worse cases, resulting in the slough- ing of the cellular tissue in these regions. This condition will be more completely described in connection with stricture. Treatment.—This consists in not allowing the patient to pass urine when it is probable that the urethra is torn, in making a small incision into the perineal urethra behind the point of injury, and in maintaining drainage of the bladder by a catheter passed through this opening. When the injury is very slight, regular catheterization and irrigation of the urethra may be sufficient. In a few cases the divided ends of the urethra have been ex- posed and united by suture successfully, and if a distinct separation can be felt between them by pressure with the finger over the point of injury, this should certainly be attempted. In this operation the urethra is exposed at the point of injury, the divided ends found, all contused and lacerated tissue cut away, and the freshened ends united by sutures of fine silk, leaving the floor of the urethra open, for a complete circular suture will seldom be entirely successful, and drainage is important if any leakage takes place.