1184 MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE VAGINA AND VULVA. Fig. 903. cure. When they have existed for some time their tissues become hardened and fibrous. The mild caustics, such as alum or acetic acid, will destroy the soft growths. If they recur, fuming nitric acid should be applied and their bases thoroughly destroyed. In very dense, fibrous warts excision may be necessary. Congenital cysts originating from Gartner's duct are occasionally found in the vagina, but are so rare as to be of little clinical consequence. Fibromyomatous tumors grow from the vaginal wall, usually becoming pedunculated, and sometimes protruding from the vulva. The vagina may also be occupied by pedun- culated tumors of the uterus, and in any case of vaginal polypus the attachments of the tumor should be carefully examined. Malignant Tumors.—Primary malig- nant tumors of the vulva and vagina may be either sarcoma or epithelioma. Secondary tumors of the vagina are common, as it is often involved by direct extension of the dis- ease from the cervix uteri or the rectum. Pri- mary sarcoma is not common, but when it occurs it develops in the deeper parts of the mucous membrane of the vagina or in the con- nective tissue of the labia, although in the latter it is even rarer than in the vagina. It forms small ovoid tumors, at first covered with mucous membrane, but soon ulcerating, and then often vegetating and filling the vagina with cauliflower masses like papillomata. In the later stages hemorrhages are common, and the discharge is very offensive. The diag- nosis from epithelioma can seldom be made, as the tumors are rarely seen before the advanced stages, when the resemblance is very close. Epithe- lioma of the vulva and vagina begins as hard, flat nodules, ulcerating early or beginning as ulcers, and resembling very much in their physical charac- teristics the epithelioma of the lips. The course is usually a chronic one, the induration preceding the ulceration as they extend. They tend at first to spread superficially, but when they attack the septum between the vagina and the bladder or rectum they may produce fistulse into either of these organs. Occasionally they assume a papillomatous growth and produce large cauliflower masses, which are very friable and bleed very easily. More rarely a carcinoma may develop from Bartholin's glands, in which case it may reach a considerable size before ulceration takes place. The inguinal glands are involved very early when the tumor is situated at the vulva, and sometimes in vaginal cancer. The latter infects the pelvic glands. There are, as a rule, no symptoms in the early stages, not even pain being occa- sioned. In the later stages there is a vaginal discharge of blood, pus, and foul serum, and the symptoms of fecal or urinary fistula with severe pain. Syphilitic disease of the vulva and vagina frequently simulates malig- nant tumors, but in the former case there are syphilitic lesions elsewhere, Papilloma of vulva. (Agnew