SPERMATORRHOEA. 1159 hard masses press upon them would be a very natural consequence, and of no pathological significance, even if the discharge contained true semen. The ordinary discharge under these circumstances is merely that of the prostate. In such cases the presence of disease of the seminal vesicles and of the prostate should be excluded by a careful rectal examination, and if any catarrhal condition be found, it may be remedied in the usual manner. Nocturnal emissions are also perfectly natural modes of expelling the sur- plus semen, and should not be considered symptoms of a diseased con- dition unless they occur too frequently for the strength of the individual concerned. Some strong and healthy men with very active genital organs may have very frequent seminal emissions, and for them this is not patho- logical, while for a neurasthenic individual such a discharge once a fort- night may be too much. Their importance to the individual can be esti- mated by the effect they have upon his strength, as shown by the symptoms of lassitude, nervous exhaustion, or irritability and lumbar pain, during the following day. Too frequent emissions can be avoided by strict absti- nence from any thoughts of a sexual nature, by a plain light diet, regulation of the bowels, out-of-door exercise, a cool bedroom, and light bedclothes. Nothing should be eaten or drunk some hours before bedtime, and the patient should sleep on his side—a towel tied around the body with a hard knot in the lumbar region being useful to prevent rolling over on the back. Erections are frequently due to a full bladder, and the patient should culti- vate the habit of waking once during the night to evacuate it. In bad cases a regular course of athletic physical training should be instituted, as it is well known that this not only improves the general health but lessens sexual hyperesthesia. Above all things sexual intercourse is to be avoided until a cure is obtained, for nothing is more likely to increase the sexual hyperesthesia, especially if it be practised in an irregular manner.