SPRAINS OF JOINTS. 550 effusion has been absorbed and the swelling diminished, massage and passive motion should be employed, but this should not be practised until several weeks have elapsed after the injury. After joint contusions more or less impairment of motion and pain may exist for months. If suppuration occurs in the joint after contusion, the joint should be freely opened, with full anti- septic precautions, and irrigated, gauze drains or tubes being passed through the joint, and a copious gauze dressing and splint applied, or continuous irrigation with a warm solution of bichloride or sterilized water may be used for a few days. The surgeon should bear in mind the possibility of anky- losis following, and keep the limb in the most favorable position for use should such a condition result, Sprains of Joints.—These injuries consist in a violent wrenching or twisting of a joint, accompanied by stretching or laceration of the ligaments, with effusion of blood and serum into the joint and into the extra-articular tissues. In slight sprains little damage to the ligaments and sheaths of the tendons may result; in severe sprains the ligaments and synovial mem- branes and the sheaths of surrounding tendons or fibres of contiguous muscles may be torn and tendons displaced ; in some cases the insertion of a ligament or a tendon into a bone may be separated with a thin shell of bone, resulting in an injury which has been described as a sprain fracture. Diagnosis.—As swelling is usually marked after severe sprains, it is often difficult to distinguish this class of injuries from fractures, and we consider it wise in such cases to give an anaesthetic, so that a careful examination of the part can be made and the absence of fracture demonstrated. In children care should be taken not to confuse sprains of joints with epiphyseal separa- tions, which present very similar symptoms. Laceration of tendons, effusion of blood into their sheaths, and avulsion from their sheaths are conditions which often complicate severe sprains, and are probably the causes of per- sistent pain and delayed restoration of function in many cases. Treatment.—The early treatment of a sprain consists in reducing displaced tendons, in putting the part at rest by means of a splint, and in the use of hot or cold applications, or of elastic pressure by means of the rubber or flannel bandage. Anodyne applications, such as lead water and laudanum, may also be employed, and later fixation may be obtained by the plaster of Paris or silicate bandage, after wearing which for a time, massage is often of the greatest service. In slight sprains daily massage, the application of a supporting bandage, and the use of the joint are often all that is necessary. A satisfactory treatment for sprains, which is applicable both in the early and in the later stages, is strapping, the region of the joint being covered with layers of rubber or adhesive-plaster straps firmly applied, which serve to fix the joint and at the same time to make pressure and limit the effusion if applied early, or to hasten its absorption if used later. Since we have employed this method, recommended by Gibney and Cotterell, we have seen the function of the part re-established much earlier. In applying strapping in sprains of the ankle or the tarsus, strips of rubber adhesive plaster one and a half inches in width and eighteen inches in length are required. The first strap is started at the junction of the middle and upper part of the leg, either upon the inner or the outer side, and applied