1075 EXTRAVASATION OF URINE. Symptoms.—The symptoms of stricture often begin long before any obstruction is noticed, for a slight discharge of purulent or watery material is caused by the chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane behind the stricture, and a dribbling of urine occurs at the end of micturition because the urethra has lost its natural elasticity and fails to expel the last drop promptly. The discharge may be so slight as to be noticeable only in the morning, when no urine has been passed for several hours. The difficulty in making water develops gradually, and if the bladder be healthy and hy- pertrophy early a considerable amount of obstruction may exist without the patient's knowledge. The first marked symptom may be an attack of re- tention, owing to errors of diet, exposure to cold, alcoholism, a fresh ure- thritis, or some such condition, causing the mucous membrane to become swollen about the stricture and block the canal completely. In such cases a patient who has been making water without much dif- ficulty suddenly is unable to pass any urine. The bladder becomes dis- tended, and intense pain is caused by the spasmodic efforts to evacuate it. A slight rise of temperature may be observed, and if cystitis or pyelitis be present this rise will be marked, and there will be a chill. Uremic symp- toms may also develop under these circumstances. If the bladder and kidney are healthy, the general symptoms are limited to discomfort and pain. If not soon relieved, the pressure behind the stricture may force the urine through some weak point in the mucous membrane into the sub- mucous tissue and cause urinary infiltration. Extravasation of urine may take place at any point from the triangu- lar ligament to the glans penis, but is most frequent in the deeper portions of the canal. The urine spreads through the submucous tissue and as far outward as the superficial perineal fascia, which prevents its extension backward, or to the thighs, and forces it to ascend on the abdomen. The penis and the scrotum become intensely swollen, and the swelling some- times reaches as high as the umbilicus. The skin is (Edematous and red, and there is a hard, brawny infiltration which pits on deep pressure. If left unrelieved, the redness becomes dusky, the circulation is impaired, points of softening and fluctuation appear, and if an incision is made at these points it will be found that the subcutaneous tissue is gangrenous throughout the infiltrated part. A foul, serous fluid, with an odor of ammoniacal urine, surrounds the sloughs. If incisions are made early, the spread of the urinary infiltration may be prevented, the fluid escaping from the wounds and the sloughing subcuta- neous tissue slowly separating and leaving granulating surfaces behind it in favorable cases. The large subcutaneous spaces left by the sloughing of the cellular tissue then heal, but if the leakage of urine from the urethra still continues because the obstruction persists, the urine makes channels for itself through the tissues, and sinuses are formed, which spread in a tor- tuous manner in all directions, so that when the patient attempts to make water the urine escapes from a dozen or more openings in various parts of the scrotum, the penis, and even the abdomen. In unusually strong and healthy men a spontaneous cure of the extravasation by the formation of these fistulse is not uncommon, but a fatal issue is to be expected in those