FRACTURE OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 498 the foot forward, pressing it inward at the same time until the astragalus is felt to press against the internal malleolus. After the deformity is cor- rected, the foot should be placed in a fracture-box padded with a pillow, a compress being placed above the internal malleolus and another just below the external malleolus, and when the sides of the box are brought up the foot will be slightly inverted. This dressing we usually employ for a week or ten days, if it satisfactorily corrects the deformity, and at the end of this time a plaster of Paris bandage is applied while the foot is held in its corrected position. The plaster of Paris bandage may be applied as a primary dressing. The Dupuytren splint, which was formerly employed in the treatment of this fracture, we have found usually to cause the patient much pain, and, although it corrects the deformity, its use is not satis- factory. The dressings in fractures of the fibula are usually retained for about four weeks: after this time the patient should be allowed to get about on crutches. At the end of six weeks he may with safety place his weight upon the limb. It is extremely rare to have non-union occur in the fibula unless it is associated with non-union in the tibia at the same time. Fracture of the External Malleolus.—This fracture is usually the result of sudden and forcible adduction of the foot, by which the astrag- alus is forced outward. It is diagnosed by the presence of pain, mobility, and crepitus, and is usually accompanied by marked swelling upon the outer surface of the ankle-joint. Treatment.—The most satisfactory treatment in fracture of the external malleolus consists in the application of the plaster of Paris dressing, which should include the foot and the leg, and is retained for about four weeks. FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE FOOT. Simple fractures of the bones of the foot are not common. Falls from a distance, when the patient alights on his feet, are more apt to be followed by fracture of the bones of the leg than by fracture of the foot. Fractures of the bones of the foot may involve the tarsus, the metatarsus, or the phalanges. Fracture of the Astragalus.—Fracture of this bone is rare; it usually results from falls, the weight of the body striking upon one foot. Symptoms.—If there is no marked displacement of the fragments, the diagnosis is extremely difficult. The strong ligamentous attachments of the bone usually prevent much displacement. The diagnosis is made by the presence of persistent pain, inability to bear pressure on the foot, and rapid swelling, and by eliciting crepitus by flexing, extending, abducting, or adducting the foot. Where there is marked deformity the diagnosis is not difficult. Treatment.—If there is displacement of the fragments in this fracture, the leg should be flexed upon the thigh, and deformity should be reduced by extension, counter-extension, and manipulation, the foot being subse- quently fixed in an extended position at a right angle to the leg. We had recently under our care a woman who had suffered from a fracture of the astragalus by a fall from a step-ladder, the weight of her body striking