851 STRICTURE OF THE LARYNX OR TRACHEA. ered, to favor the escape of pus and prevent it from being drawn into the trachea. Extralaryngeal abscess should be opened by an incision in the neck over the seat of the purulent collection. Ulceration of the Larynx.—Ulceration of the larynx may result from injury, from foreign bodies, from catarrhal, tuberculous, or syphilitic inflammation, or from malignant disease. It may involve only a limited amount of the surface of the larynx or may be widely extended ; the vocal cords are very apt to be involved in the process. Symptoms.—These are practically those of laryngitis, and if the vocal cords are involved, hoarse- ness and loss of voice are noticed early. Cough with the expectoration of blood-stained mucus points to the presence of ulceration; dyspnoea is not apt to occur unless oedema develops as a result of the ulceration. Treat- ment.—This depends upon the cause of the ulceration, and rest of the affected part should be as far as possible maintained as a most important element in the treatment. Non-specific ulceration should be treated by alkaline sprays and the use of astringent powders or solutions, or nitrate of silver. In syphilitic ulceration, antisyphilitic remedies should be adminis- tered, and applications of mercurial solutions or of iodoform powder should be made to the ulcers. Tuberculous ulceration calls for change of air, good food, the administration of anti-tuberculous remedies, and the application of powder or solutions of iodoform and nitrate of silver to the ulcerated surface. Malignant ulceration is not markedly improved by local treat- ment, and, as a rule, calls for the performance of tracheotomy or excision of the larynx. In any of these forms of ulceration sudden dyspnoea may develop from oedema and may demand intubation or tracheotomy. Stricture of the Larynx or Trachea.—Diminution of the calibre of the larynx or trachea from pressure from without is described as com- pression stenosis, and may arise from the pressure of tumors upon these organs, diminishing the calibre of the respiratory canal, or from deflection or kinking of the trachea from the presence of a growth in the neck in close relation with it. Tumors of the thyroid gland, enlarged lymphatic glands, and malignant growths of the neck often produce stricture or narrowing of the larynx or trachea in this manner. Stricture or narrowing of the calibre of these organs from within is described as occlusion stenosis, and may arise from cicatricial contraction following ulceration, from fracture of the carti- lages, from wounds of the larynx or trachea, such as cut-throat wounds, or from inflammatory adhesions or tumors growing from the mucous membrane. Symptoms.—The symptoms of stricture of the larynx or trachea usually develop slowly, and consist in stridulous respiration and more or less dysp- noea, most marked in inspiration, varying with the amount of narrowing of the calibre of the larynx or trachea, and cyanosis of the face if the dyspnoea is urgent. The greatest danger in these cases arises from the occurrence of oedema, which may rapidly diminish the already obstructed breathing- space. Treatment.—If the stenosis is due to pressure upon or to stricture of the larynx, the introduction of an intubation-tube may relieve the symptoms promptly, and by introducing tubes of different sizes gradual dilatation of the stricture may be accomplished. If, however, the symptoms of obstruc-