EXTRACAPSULAR FRACTURE OF NECK OF FEMUR. 482 treatment and to allow him to sit in a chair or to use crutches, the treat- ment of the fracture for the time being disregarded. It is remarkable in some cases, even of persons far advanced in years, how much use of the limb the patient may regain after this fracture. Fig. 403. Dressing for fracture of the neck of the femur. Fig. 404. Extracapsular Fractures of the Neck of the Femur.—These present many points in common with fractures occurring within the capsular ligament. Extracapsular fractures of the neck of the femur are produced by blows or falls upon the trochanter, or by violence transmitted through falls upon the knee or the foot. The line of fracture may be transverse, involving the lower portion of the neck of the bone and the trochanter, or oblique, involving the neck of the bone and the upper portion of the shaft. Com- minution also may occur, so that three or more fragments are produced. Fractures of the neck of the boue outside of the capsule may be im- pacted, the neck being driven into the cancel- lated tissue of the trochanter and the shaft of the femur. In the repair of extracapsular fractures of the neck of the femur the amount of callus thrown out is usually very large. (Fig. 404.) Symptoms.—The symptoms following this injury are very similar to those following fracture within the capsule of the joint, and consist of pain, swelling, discoloration, disability, crepitus, and deformity. The deformity is usually greater than that following intracapsular fractures of the neck of the femur. Crepitus cannot be obtained where there is firm impaction, but can be elicited when the fragments are loose, by rotating the thigh. Deformity in this fracture consists in shortening of from one-quarter of an inch to two or three inches. Eversion of the foot is usually present, except in cases of impaction, when instead of eversion there may be inversion of the foot. Extracapsular fractures of the neck of the femur result from great Excessive callus after extracap- sular fracture of the neck of the femur. (Agnew.)