900 NON-PUERPERAL MASTITIS. more than one cavity, every one should be opened, the septa between them being broken down with the finger so as to allow of the freest drainage. If it is found that the first incision does not drain properly, another incision at the most dependent part of the abscess-cavity should be added. Gentle use of the curette to remove sloughs from the interior of the abscess is advisa- ble if the case is one of long standing. These incisions are preferably made under general anaesthesia, although, if the abscesses are small and super- ficial, cocaine may answer. In neglected cases in which the breast is exten- sively involved, with numerous sinuses through which the pus has escaped, the latter should be thoroughly explored, and enlarged so as to admit of thorough curetting of their walls, and all the cavities should be well drained at the most dependent part. As soon as the inflammation subsides, strong compression should be made of the entire organ against the chest, so as to hasten the closing of the cavities. A wet dressing is allowable in the early stages of abscess, but the use of poultices should not be encouraged, because they may favor too great destruction of the gland-tissue. It is seldom that abscess occurs in the axillary lymph-nodes in consequence of abscess of the breast, although the latter frequently become swollen and tender. Non-Puerperal Mastitis.—Mastitis may occur in the infant at birth or soon after, in virgins about the time of puberty, and even in the male. Cor- responding with the smaller size and less vascularity of the breast, the symp- toms are less acute, but abscess may form and require incision. Bryant suggests that some of the retracted and imperfect nipples so frequently seen may be the result of abscesses in infancy. It is a common thing for the breast of the new-born to be distended and to contain a little secretion, and it is not improbable that the formation of abscesses may be caused by the injudicious rubbing of the nurse or mother to dissipate this swelling. At or before puberty a subacute mastitis may closely simulate sarcoma, but the swelling can be cured by compression and a belladonna plaster. Sloughing Mastitis.—In some cases there is a very acute and virulent infection causing a general inflammation of the entire gland, and resulting in acute sloughing of all its tissues, with all the signs of severe septic poisoning. These cases are fortunately very rare. The treatment demanded consists in two or three very free incisions carried in the usual lines, but extending from the nipple to the margin of the breast, which should be made before pus forms, in order that tension may be relieved at once and some of the breast-tissue saved if possible. Chronic Fistulas are not infrequent as a result of abscess of the breast, especially when neglected, and sometimes milk is discharged from them, owing to the wound of a lacteal duct, but the escape of milk rarely con- tinues more than a few days or weeks after the abscess has been opened. According to Bryant, a cure can be most readily obtained in the case of obstinate chronic fistula? by confining the patient's arm to her side. Subcutaneous and Retromammary Abscess.—In connection with mastitis we may speak of the subcutaneous and retromammary abscess. The subcutaneous tissue over the breast is liable to suppurative inflamma- tion just as elsewhere, and not infrequently abscesses also form between the gland and the pectoral muscle. These may be acute or chronic, cold abscess