430 EXAMINATION OF FRACTURE. as a diagnostic sign in fractures of bones deeply seated and surrounded by thick masses of muscular tissue, as the femur and the humerus. Crepitus.—This sign of fracture is produced by the grating of one broken surface against the other, and the conditions which favor its pro- duction are mobility at the seat of fracture, with contact of the fragments. If impaction of the fragments has occurred, or if there are interposed between them shreds of fascia or muscles, crepitus cannot be elicited. Crepi- tus is affected by the density of the bone, being more marked in fracture of the shaft of a long bone, and less distinct in that of the cancellous ends of a long bone, in fracture of a short bone, and in an epiphyseal separation. The crepitation observed in cases of teno synovitis and inflammation of bursse and the cartilages of joints is sometimes confounded with the crepi- tus of fracture, but it is a softer variety of crepitus, resembling the sensation which is felt upon rubbing two pieces of leather together, and is not accom- panied by the other signs of fracture. In eliciting crepitus the surgeon should make extension of the injured parts, and gently rotate them, at the same time grasping the seat of fracture firmly with the hand, or the frag- ments may be tilted by pressure with the fingers. Although it is a valuable sign of fracture, it is not justifiable to use any violent manipulation for its production : the same gentleness should be exercised in eliciting this symp- tom as in obtaining that of preternatural mobility, for violent movements give the patient pain, and may be followed by injury of the surrounding soft parts. The fact, therefore, that crepitus cannot be obtained, as before stated, does not prove that a fracture is not present. Discoloration.—This sign in fractures may arise from two sources— from the hemorrhage following rupture of vessels in the subcutaneous cel- lular tissue, which is apparent a few hours after the injury, and from the blood which escapes from the bone and deep structures at the seat of frac- ture, causing discoloration of the overlying skin some days after the injury. As a similarly developed discoloration may arise from contusions of deep structures or from sprains, we do not, therefore, consider it an important diagnostic sign of fracture. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of fracture is often simple, while at other times it is extremely difficult, and is made by eliciting and observing the symptoms just mentioned. A very valuable aid to the diagnosis of fracture has recently been introduced in the use of the Eontgen or X rays, which are often of the greatest service in proving the existence and location of fracture in obscure cases. The application of this method of examination is likely to add much precise information to our knowledge of fractures. Examination of a Fracture.—In cases of fracture it is always well to make a systematic examination, and the best time to make this exam- ination is as soon as possible after the fracture has taken place, for if it is delayed for some time there will usually be so much swelling that many of the important signs cannot be obtained. As before stated, the injured part should be compared with its fellow, and the bony prominences should be located as guides to displacement. The part should then be firmly extended, and gentle manipulations made to obtain mobility and crepi- tus. The use of an anesthetic is often of the greatest value in the exam-