328 CONTROL OF ARTERIAL HEMORRHAGE. Fig. 262. gone torsion to such an extent that no blood escapes from them, although completely torn across. Torsion has been employed to a considerable extent to control bleeding from arteries, being used in the case of vessels as large as the femoral or the axillary. In the case of large vessels it does not offer the same safety as the application of an aseptic ligature, and we therefore think its most satisfactory application is to small or moderate-sized vessels. The Ligature.—This is by far the most widely employed method of controlling arterial hemorrhage. The materials used for ligatures are silk or catgut> which should be thoroughly sterilized before being used. The preparation of ligatures is described on pages 167, 168. In securing a di- vided vessel by a ligature the end of the vessel is grasped with artery (Fig. 262) or haemostatic forceps, and is sepa- rated from the surrounding tissues and slightly drawn out of its sheath. A piece of catgut or silk about ten inches in length is then firmly tied upon the end of the vessel, and is secured by a reef or surgeon's knot. The knot should Fig. 263. Fig. 261. Torsion of an artery. Artery forceps. Controlling hemorrhage by a deep suture. (Esmareh.) be made with firmness, and should not be secured by a jerky motion, which is often done and is apt to break the ligature. The ligatui'e may be tied with only enough force to bring the coats of the vessel in contact, or with sufficient force to divide the inner and the middle coat. The latter method is the safer one. When the knot has been firmly tied the ends of the ligature are cut short in the wound. In very dense tissues it is often impossible to grasp the end of the divided vessel with forceps. In such cases the hemorrhage may be controlled by the use of a deep suture. (Fig. 263.) This is applied by threading a catgut or silk ligature into a curved needle, then passiDg the needle deeply into the tissues on each side of the bleeding vessel, and finally securing it by tying. Both ends of a divided artery should be secured by ligatures, although the distal end may not bleed at the time ; when the collateral circulation is established, hemorrhage may take place from it. In the case of a partially divided artery ligatures should be placed upon the vessel on each side of the wound, and after being secured the division of the vessel should be