285 AMPUTATIONS AT THE SHOULDER-JOINT. The knife is then passed behind the bone, and a posterior flap is cut in the same manner. The bone is next cleared of any muscular tissue which remains, the flaps are retracted, and it is divided with a saw. Teale's method is some- times employed in amputations Fig. 215. Modified circular amputation of the arm. (After Esmarch.) Amputation of the arm by transfixion. (Bryant.) the long anterior flap should be made in such a manner that the inner one clears the margins of the biceps muscle so as not to involve the brachial artery; the short flap is taken from the posterior aspect of the arm. Amputations at the Shoulder-Joint.—The disarticulation of the arm at the shoulder-joint may be effected in several ways. The methods most commonly employed are the oval, or Larrey's ; the flap, or Dupuytren's ; the double flap, or Lisfranc's, and Spence's. The great risk which formerly accompanied amputations at the shoulder- joint arose from the difficulty in controlling the hemorrhage during the operation. This was effected by a padded key pressed upon the subclavian artery above the clavicle, or by an assistant grasping the axillary Fig. 216. vessels before their final division was accomplished. At the pres- ent time the use of Wyeth's pins and an elastic strap (Fig. 216) is found the most satisfactory method of controlling hemorrhage during amputation at the shoul- der-joint. When this method is employed, stout steel pins or skewers about ten inches in length should be used; the anterior pin is passed through the tissues in front of the acromion process, and is brought out through the anterior fold of the axilla; the posterior pin is passed behind the acromion process, and is brought out through the pos- terior fold of the axilla. The rubber strap or tube is then wrapped around the shoulder behind the pins and secured. If this method of controlling hemorrhage is not employed, a compress in the axilla, held by an elastic Pins and elastic strap applied for amputation at the shoulder-joint.