342 SEPTIC PHLEBITIS. The patient's constitutional condition should also receive attention. The use of saline purgatives is often followed by good results, and in gouty cases the regulation of the diet is a matter of great importance. The solid oedema of the lower extremities, which often persists long after the inflammatory symptoms have subsided, is a troublesome feature. Hot douches and gentle friction or massage will generally be of service in relieving this condition, but in many cases the patient will get relief only by the wearing of a well- fitting elastic stocking, the use of which may have to be continued for months. Septic or Suppurative Phlebitis.—This condition results from in- fection of the walls of a vein by pyogenic organisms, which may reach the vein from infected perivascular tissues, or by way of the circulation, or by means of an infected embolus which becomes lodged in the vein. This form of phlebitis, which is, fortunately, much less frequent since the impor- tance of asepsis in wound treatment has been fully recognized, is followed by the development of a thrombus at the seat of inflammation, which is itself soon infected. This disease is often noticed in connection with septic wounds, and, as in most cases of septicaemia and pyaemia the infection occurs by means of the veins, this affection bears a very close relation to these diseases. Pathology.—The walls of the inflamed vein present the appearances common in suppurative inflammation ; the infected thrombus becomes soft- ened and purulent, and the broken-down material and the ptomaines result- ing enter the circulation ; a large abscess may be formed at the seat of the affection, or septic emboli may pass into the circulation, causing metastatic abscesses in other parts of the body; or septicaemia may result from the toxic products which have entered the circulation. Symptoms.—In suppurative phlebitis of superficial veins the veins become hard and tender on pressure, the surrounding parts are swollen and painful, and oedema is present in the parts drained by the veins. The skin may become red, and soon the presence of an acute abscess can be recog- nized. The patient at the same time suffers from elevation of temperature and increase in the pulse-rate, the tongue becomes coated, and delirium soon develops. If the abscess is opened or discharges spontaneously, the local and constitutional symptoms may rapidly improve. On the other hand, the above symptoms may be followed by rigors and profuse sweating, and pyae- mia may occur. If the disease involves deep-seated veins or the venous sinuses of the cranium, the local symptoms may not be marked, with possi- bly the exception of oedema, and the occurrence of septicaemia or pyaemia may first call attention to the condition. Treatment.—Suppurative phlebitis is always a grave affection, and often gives rise to a fatal septicaemia or pyaemia, although a moderate infec- tion may be recovered from, or the amount of infection may be limited by prompt treatment. The prompt removal of the infected material from the vein before the blood has been widely infected offers the patient the best chance of recovery. As soon as the condition is recognized, the inflamed vein should be laid freely open, and the infected clot removed with a curette, the walls of the vein being carefully swabbed with a thirty-grain solution