22 SYMPTOMS OF INFLAMMATION. Gaseous Septic Infections.—An unusual complication of inflammation is the formation of gas in the tissues. This must not be confounded with the escape of gas or air into the cellular spaces from some of the air-contain- ing cavities of the body, for it is a true production of gas originating from bacterial growth. When gas develops in the closed cavity of an abscess it does not necessarily imply that the micro-organisms concerned are unusu- ally virulent or dangerous to life, for it is more particularly the putrefactive microbes which produce these gases. But when it is found in the cellular tissues as a diffuse emphysema, sometimes crackling under the fingers in spots far distant from the original source of infection, or advancing rapidly up a limb, even without any congestion of the overlying skin, it is a sign of the most serious import, and it is seldom that the patient can be saved, even by an amputation done at a point far removed from the nearest sign of emphysema. Some of these cases are instances of malignant oedema, but not all, for there are other forms of septicaemia which are accompanied by the production of gas. We have observed a general gaseous septicaemia appearing in a patient less than twenty-four hours after an internal urethrotomy doue with all the ordinary antiseptic precautions, the patient having a high temperature but no local symptoms, feeling bright and well, and complaining only of a little sore throat, although crepitation was distinct in the subcutaneous tissues of the ankle, and death followed forty-eight hours after the operation. The cause of the infection could not be ascertained. Autopsy revealed no unusual appearance of the urethra, but gas was diffused through all the vessels of the body. Death is said to occur in some of these cases merely from the mechanical effect of the presence of the gas in the blood-vessels, just as when air enters a vein during an operation, but it is more often due to septicaemia. Symptoms.—From antiquity the local symptoms of inflammation have been enumerated as rubor, dolor, color, et tumor, and to these the moderns have added only one, largely a consequence of the others, functio Icesa— impaired function. The redness is due to the congestion. The pain is due to the pressure exerted upon the sensory nerves by the surrounding swell- ing, as is well shown by the intensification of the distress as every beat of the heart forces more blood into the space already overfilled. In some cases, however, it may be caused by the direct action of the inflammatory agent on the nerves. The heat is caused by the increased supply of warm arterial blood, for it has been abundantly proved that the temperature never rises above the heat of the blood, although naturally, in a patient with fever, it will be above the normal temperature of that fluid. The swelling is due to the dilated vessels, to the effusion of lymph and cells, and to the presence of pus. The impaired function is chiefly caused by the pain, which is often increased by any attempt to use the part, and by the swelling, which prevents its free movement, though the loss of function may also be dependent upon the direct action of the inflammatory cause upon the nerves. The constitutional symptoms of inflammation are an elevation of tem- perature, with or without a chill, and the general disturbance due to this