AMPUTATIONS AT THE KNEE-JOINT. was recommended that the anterior edge of the spine of the tibia be sawed off obliquely. This procedure is now rarely practised. Before dividing the bones it is often possible in amputations of the leg, especially in young sub- jects, to turn up a periosteal flap from the tibia. Before closing the stump this periosteal flap may be stitched over the sawed surface of the bone. In dressing a case of amputation of the leg, after the vessels have been secured a drainage-tube is introduced, and the muscular tissues in many cases may be brought together by buried sutures of catgut, the skin-flaps being next approximated by another layer of sutures. A copious gauze dressing is then applied, and held in position by the turns of a bandage. AMPUTATIONS AT THE KNEE-JOINT. Amputations at the knee-joint may be done by the anterior flap method, or by the elliptical or the circular method, and the bones may be disarticu- lated or a section may be made through the condyles of the femur. Anterior Flap Method.—In amputating at the knee-joint by this method a long anterior cutaneous flap is formed: the incision, beginning half an inch below the internal condyle of the femur, is carried down the leg for five inches, then crosses the anterior surface of the leg to a correspond- ing point on the opposite side, and is carried back to a point half an inch below the external condyle of the femur. This flap is dissected up and the ligament of the patella is divided ; the joint is then opened, the lat- eral ligaments are divided, and the disarticulation is effected. A short posterior flap is next cut by trans- fixion, or from without inward. The Amputation at the knee by an anterior nap. semilunar cartilages and the patella are not removed. (Fig. 240.) Elliptical or Oval Method.—In the elliptical method an incision crossing the spine of the tibia five finger-breadths below the lower extrem- ity of the patella is carried around the back of the leg three finger-breadths higher than in front; the tissues in the front of the leg are dissected up until the tendon of the patella is exposed; the leg is then flexed and the ligament of the patella is divided; the capsular ligament and the lateral and crucial ligaments are next severed, care being taken not to injure the popliteal vessels with the point of the knife. The tibia is next drawn for- ward, the knife is passed behind its posterior border, and the remaining soft parts are divided from within outward. Circular Method.—In performing this amputation at the knee-joint, the leg should be extended, and a circular incision should be made around the leg three inches below the patella, dividing the skin and connective tis- sue. The skin is next dissected up, on all sides, as far as the lower edge of the patella; the cuff of skin being turned back at this point, the knee is