FRACTUEE OF THE CLAVICLE. 442 Fig. 341. fortuity is not reduced by these manipulations and causes the patient dis- comfort, the fragments should be exposed by incision, elevated, and wired, if necessary. After reducing the deformity, a compress should be placed over the seat of fracture, and the chest movements should be restricted by applying adhesive straps, two and a half inches in width, which should extend from the middle of the ribs on one side to the same point on the opposite side and should cover in the chest for some distance above and below the seat of fracture. (Fig. 341.) This dressing should be retained for at least four weeks, being renewed at the end of a week or ten days if it becomes loose. FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. Fracture of the clavicle is a very common accident, due largely \ fi 1 jm to the exposed position of the bone Wok WkJjSW and its attachment to the sternum Dressing for fractured the sternum. ^ud acromion prOCeSS Of the SCap- ula, which latter causes it to re- ceive a part of all forces which are transmitted through the arm or shoulder. Fracture of the clavicle is more common in children than in adults ; more than one-third of the cases occur in children under five years of age ; and it may exist as a partial or a complete fracture. Bilateral fractures of the clavicle have also occasionally been observed. Fracture of the clavicle may occur at any part of the bone. Fractures of the middle third of the bone are the most common variety, and may be oblique (Fig. 342) or transverse ; the former is the most common in adults, the latter in children. Fig. 342. Fracture of the clavicle. Causes.—Fracture of the clavicle may result from indirect violence, such as falls upon the hands or the shoulder, from crushing force applied to the upper part of the chest, from muscular action, as in striking or lifting, and from direct violence. Symptoms.—The prominent symptoms in fracture of the clavicle are loss of power, pain upon pressure, and deformity in the line of the bone. The patient usually supports the arm of the injured side at the elbow with the hand of the uninjured arm, and is generally unable to carry the hand of the injured side to the head or to the opposite shoulder; the affected