FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. 464 motions of pronation and supination of the forearm. Non-union is not un- common in fractures of the bones of the forearm. Treatment.—In the treatment of fractures of both bones of the forearm the forearm should be flexed, to relax the muscles which arise from the humerus, and extension and counter-extension should be made ; at the same time the fragments should be pressed into their proper position. Consid- erable diversity of opinion exists among surgeons as to the position in which the forearm should be placed in the treatment of these fractures. Some surgeons prefer the position between pronation and supination, while others prefer the supine position. Our experience has led us to think that the best results are obtained by treating fractures of the forearm in the supine posi- tion, as advocated by Lonsdale, where the radius is broken above the inser- tion of the pronator radii teres, for the reason that the biceps muscle, in- serted into the tuberosity of the radius, acts as a supinator of the forearm. If the upper fragment of the radius is supinated by the action of the biceps, and the forearm is placed in the position between pronation and supination^ the lower fragment of the radius in half supination will then be united to the upper fragment in full supination, and axial deformity will result, the patient being unable to supinate the arm fully, thus losing the advantage of full rotation ; whereas if the lower fragment is supinated to correspond with the supination of the upper fragment the line of the radius will be com- plete. We therefore treat these fractures by reducing the deformity by counter-extension and manipulation, and apply a well-padded flat straight splint to the anterior surface of the forearm, extending from the bend of the elbow to a little beyond the tips of the fingers. A well-padded splint is next applied to the posterior surface of the arm, from the tip of the olecra- non to a point just below the wrist. (Fig. 378.) The splints are held in Fig. 378. Application of splints in fracture of both bones of the forearm. position by the application of a roller bandage (Fig. 379), and the forearm should be supported in a broad sling. Care should be taken that the anterior splint, if it be applied while the arm is extended, does not press against the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow when the arm is flexed. This fracture may also be dressed by applying a long straight splint to the posterior surface of the arm, extending from the elbow to the tips of the fingers, and a short anterior splint extending from the elbow to the wrist, both being held in place by a bandage. A plaster of Paris bandage may be