721 LOCAL EPILEPSY. General Epilepsy.—The symptoms of general epilepsy are sufficiently described in special text-books, and we need only outline them here. The epileptic convulsion may be preceded by an aura, the patient being aware that something is about to hap- FlG- pen by some peculiar sensation, but this is often absent. When the attack begins the patient sud- denly assumes a rigid position, followed by convul- sive movements sometimes limited to one part of the body, sometimes general, and he falls to the floor unconscious, his muscles working without control. The movements continue for several minutes, and Trephine button from skuii 'of epileptic, showing depres- gradually cease, but the patient remains unconscious, sion of bone from fracture pale, and occasionally vomits. Gradually he regains J^6" years Previously- consciousness and feels very weak from the strenuous muscular exertion, but he is often unaware that anything has happened. For general epilepsy the surgeon can do nothing. Local Epilepsy.—Symptoms.—Local convulsions, or so-called Jack- sonian epilepsy, may be confined to twitchings of the muscles of one finger or toe or of one part of the face, but, as a rule, an attack which begins in this extremely limited way spreads to adjoining muscles, gradually advancing up the arm or leg to the face, or in the opposite direction. After this gradual advance or '1 march'' of the spasni a general convulsion with loss of con- sciousness may follow exactly like that of general epilepsy, such attacks being sometimes given the name of "focal" epilepsy, while those without loss of consciousness and with limited spasms are called true Jacksonian epilepsy. The limited spasms are due to the fact that the cause of irrita- tion is situated directly over the motor centres and bears most severely on a limited point, the excitement spreading like a wave in regular succession from this centre to those adjoining it. Prognosis.—The progress of the disease is invariably from bad to worse, although the course may be very slow. The success of any operation depends upon its performance before the epileptic habit is formed and upon the possibility of removing the exciting cause. Diagnosis.—Convulsions due to uraemia and chronic cerebral lead poisoning must be excluded by the absence of indications of renal disease and of lead in the tissues or urine. The diagnosis of epilepsy depends upon the exclusion of tumors and abscesses. When it has been decided that the epilepsy is due to a local lesion, the exact situation of the latter is to be sought for ; if that can be determined, an exploratory operation is indicated, even if the nature of the lesion cannot be ascertained. Treatment.—-A scar on the scalp or on the surface of the bone may assist in the localization, but scars are often the result of falls in the fits, and not of the original injury. If no marks are found, the skull is opened and a search made for adhesions, tumors, or other causes of irritation of the brain. Even when nothing whatever can be found, if the attacks have been strictly Jacksonian in character it is allowable to excise the cortical centre of the part in which the attack has usually begun, the motor centre for the upper extremity being entirely removed when the attack begins in the fingers, for 46