SUPPURATIVE THECITIS. 416 loss of power in the affected muscles, and a peculiar dry crepitus when the tendon is moved in its sheath, which is sometimes mistaken for the crepitus of fracture. Treatment.—The treatment of non suppurative teno synovitis consists in the application of tincture of iodine over the course of the inflamed tendon, or light stroking of the surface of the skin over the tendon with Paquelin's cautery, and the use of a splint to limit the motion of the affected part. In the later stages of the affection the local use of an ointment of equal parts of unguentum belladonna and unguentum kydrargyri, or strap- ping, will often be followed by good results. The affection usually subsides under this treatment in a few days, or at most in two or three weeks. Some crepitation may remain upon motion of the tendon long after all inflam- matory symptoms have subsided. Suppurative Thecitis.—This affection results from infection of the sheath of a tendon by pyogenic organisms which have gained access to it through an open or a punctured wound. In many cases the wound may be so insignificant as almost to escape notice. This disease often affects the flexor tendons of the hands and feet, and is accompanied by redness and swelling of the part, throbbing pain, and marked constitutional disturbance. Owing to the anatomical structure of the parts, the inflammation travels readily along the sheath of the tendons and the surrounding connective tissue, and unless the progress of the disease is arrested by free incisions sloughing of the tendons and sheaths as well as of the connective tissue is apt to occur, and in some cases necrosis of the adjacent bones results. Treatment. —The treatment of suppu- rative thecitis consists in early and free in- cision and the subsequent application of warm, moist antiseptic dressings. If in spite of early incision the disease continues to spread and involves other tendons, the incision should be repeated at the new positions of inflammation. It is only by the employment of early and free incisions that sloughing of the tendons and of the connective tissue can be avoided. Fixa- tion of the inflamed parts by a splint is an important detail in the treatment. Palmar Abscess.—Palmar abscess may result from infection of the connective tissue or synovial sheaths of the flexor ten- dons in the palm of the hand, through a punctured wound, or from suppurative the- citis of the sheath of the flexor tendons of the fingei-s Because of the anatomical ar- rangement of the sheaths of the flexor tendons, the palm, thumb, and little finger having a general sheath, and those of the fore, ring, and middle fingers having separate sheaths (Fig. 314), the infective process is more likely to Fig. 314. Synovial sheaths of fingers and common sheath for tendons of the palm, little finger, and thumb. (Keen.)