PYAEMIA. that one of these drugs may be useful to counteract effects similar to those produced by the other, and either of them, in small doses, is a good heart- stimulant. There can be no question that the free use of pure oxygen by in- halation is one of the best means for combating the depression of septicaemia. Pyaemia.—That variety of progressive septicaemia known as pyaemia deserves separate consideration. Pyaemia is a morbid condition due to the presence of pyogenic bacteria in the circulating blood, either free or con- tained in pus-cells or thrombi, resulting in multiple suppurative inflamma- tions throughout the body. These suppurative inflammations may attack the synovial and serous membranes, or produce abscesses, and are called metastatic because they develop at a distance from the original focus. Like all forms of septicaemia, pyaemia can appear only as the sequel of some local inflammatory process. The former idea of its etiology was that the pus-cells actually entered the blood-vessels, as, for instance, when an abscess lay in contact with a vein and the wall of the latter was perforated by ulceration or sloughing, allowing the pus to enter it, an occurrence which has been ob- served, but which must be very rare. It is only necessary, however, for the pyogenic bacteria to gain access to the circulation by directly penetrating the walls of a vein, or by infecting a clot which has formed within it, in order to produce metastatic suppuration. The blood normally remains fluid in the vessels on account of the peculiar influence of the endothelial lining, and does not coagulate even if it be imprisoned and stationary in a part of a ves- sel included between two ligatures. But if the endothelial surface be rough- ened by mechanical means, such as scratching by a needle or by inflamma- tion, fibrin will be deposited and a clot formed, which is known as a thrombus. The formation of such a clot, thrombosis, is the natural consequence wherever bacteria fasten themselves upon the wall of the vessel, whether they are brought to the spot by the circulating blood or penetrate the vessel from without. These thrombi not only interfere with the circulation, but form an element of serious danger, as they are apt to ex- tend, and may reach and project into another branch of the vessel which is still pervious (Fig. 16), and then the blood-current may detach small fragments (called emboli) and carry them into the circulation. Em- bolism is the blocking of any arterial vessel by a clot brought to it by the circulation. If the artery ob- structed has no anastomotic branches with a neighbor- ing artery beyond, death of all the tissues dependent upon it must follow, and even if there is sufficient anastomosis to prevent gangrene, the tissue may be so poorly nourished that infection takes place very readily. If the embolus contain pyogenic germs, even when the circulation is not impaired, metastatic abscesses will develop. A metastatic suppurative inflammation may affect any of the joints or of the serous membranes, producing synovitis, endocar- ditis, pleuritis, or meningitis, for instance, with their usual results. This secondary inflammation appears to be due to the lodging of bacteria in the Fig. 16. Thrombosis, with clot projecting into the main trunk, so that the current shown by arrow would tend to wash off a fragment. (Agnew.)