311 DISEASES OF THE NAILS. Fig. 249. Cornu unguale. (Dumesnil.) the nail, involving the matrix only partially. The former is most common in syphilis, and consists of chronic ulcers at the base and sides of the nail, resulting in the Joss of the latter, and easily cured by the ordinary anti- syphilitic remedies. Paronychia, or panaritis, is frequently confounded with felon or whitlow, but, although par- onychia is often followed by the deeper infection, the term should be reserved for a more limited disease originating in a hangnail or in some minute wound. It is marked by a tender, reddened swelling of the fold of skin at the side of the nail, sometimes extending around the entire edge towards the matrix. It may end in resolution or suppuration, and treatment should be very energetic and prompt in order to avoid the deeper infection of felon. This is conducted on the lines explained in the chapter on Inflamma- tion. In its more chronic form parony- chia may result in a permanent sluggish inflammation with great hypertrophy, or ulceration, these forms being usually due to syphilis or some continued infection, or to irritation with arsenic, potash, etc. Ingrowing Toe-Nail.—The most common and distressing affection of the nails is the so-called ingrowing toe-nail, which usually begins by an irritation set up in the fold of skin at one or both sides of the nail, caused by some minute wound or the pressure of a tight shoe. The skin thickens and presses against the corner of the nail and ulcerates, and the patient is very apt to cut away the nail still more, forming a sharp corner in the nail farther back, which causes ad- ditional irritation. The affection is really one of overgrowing skin, not of ingrowing nail. The ulcer which develops at the side of the nail deepens constantly, and the corner of the nail may entirely perforate the swollen skin. (Fig. 250.) Ingrowing nails are occasionally, though rarely, ob- served upon the fingers, sometimes result- ing from the habit of biting the nails short. Prophylaxis demands that the toe- nail should always be cut squarely across at right angles to its long axis, and the corners left, untrimmed and long enough to reach well beyond the folds of skin on each side, so that the latter cannot be injured by them. Treatment.—If seen early, the application of some soothing, cold, wet dressing until inflammation is subdued, and the introduction of a little lint Fig. 250. Ingrowing toe-nail perforating the skin.