FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS. 468 dressing, Fig. 384. are due to an imperfect reduction of the fragments at the time of the first and with this fact in view we think it is advisable to anaes- thetize the patient and use considerable force if necessary to place the fragment in its proper position. The forearm should next be placed upon a well-padded Bond splint (Fig. 384), which consists of a splint with a block of Bond splint wood set obliquely upon it, upon which the hand rests, causing its adduction. In addition to this splint two folded compresses of lint are applied, one over the lower end of the upper fragment and the other over the upper end of the lower fragment. (Fig. 385.) The arm should be fixed in the supine position, or in the position between supination and pronation, and the splint and com- presses held in place by the turns of a roller bandage. (Fig. 386.) The Fig. 385. Application of compresses and splint in ( after-treatment of this fracture consists in the renewal of the dressings after twenty-four hours, and after this the dressings can be changed at intervals of two or three days, and at the end of four weeks the splint should be removed and the patient encouraged to use the arm. The Bond splint allows the patient to move the fingers during the course of the treatment without interfering with the fixation of the fragments. Another method of treating Colles's fracture after the reduction of the deformity consists in placing upon the dorsal surface of the forearm a padded straight splint, extending Fig. 386. from the elbow to the tips of the ^ "^N. fingers, and a short straight splint upon the palmar surface of the arm, extending from the elbow to the wrist. These splints are held in position by a bandage, and the forearm carried in a sling with the hand inclined to the ulnar side. The hand should be bandaged to the posterior splint for about seven days and then set free. The posterior splint should be left long for another week ; at the end of this time it should be shortened so as to extend only to the wrist-joint, and the patient should be encouraged to Dressmf, for Colics a fracture.