360 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. tion or throbbing, which has frequently led to the diagnosis of aneurism ; but the absence of a definite expansile tumor is the all-important diagnostic sign. Arterio-venous aneurisms present a very loud bruit and a constant thrill, and participation of the veins in both pulsation and bruit. In most of the fatal accidents depending on mistaken diagnosis failure to use the stethoscope has been, according to Holmes, the principal source of error. Treatment.—The treatment of aneurism is both medical and surgical. Medical Treatment.—The medical treatment, commonly known as Tufnell's, after the surgeon who first systematized it, is applicable as an exclusive mode of treatment to internal aneurism, and is used also in con- junction with surgical methods in external aneurism. It is especially use- ful in the sacculated form of aneurism with a narrow mouth, the object being by absolute rest in bed to diminish the force and number of heart- beats, and by low diet to decrease the volume of the blood and perhaps increase its fibrin-forming constituents. Absolute rest in bed is enforced for eight or ten weeks, during which time only ten ounces of solid food and eight ounces of liquids per day are allowed, according to Tufnell, although a little more latitude in the case of solids would probably be advantageous. Cer- tain drugs are of great value. Opium, lactucarium, and lupulin may be used for restlessness and pain. Iodide of potassium is one of the most im- portant, although its beneficial action, aside from the relief of pain, is not well understood ; from ten- to twenty-grain doses three times a day are indi- cated. Compound jalap powder and compound rhubarb pill relieve consti- pation and have a depleting effect. Other drugs are sometimes beneficial, such as aconite or veratrum viride, acetate of lead, and chloride of barium. For local pain, leeching around the aneurism, and belladonna plaster, or an ice-cap, are useful. Bleeding is called for in dyspnoea and venous engorge- ment from pressure. Patients often grow very restive under this treatment, and refuse to continue it, or if it fails and operative treatment is impos- sible, a quiet life and avoidance of excitement or exertion should be recom- mended. Surgical Treatment.—The methods by which cure is effected by nature are clotting of the contained blood, either (1) slowly, with the for- mation of laminated clot, or (2) rapidly, en masse, as when the distal orifice is plugged by a fragment of clot, or (3) by shutting off the sac from the gen- eral circulation, as sometimes happens in suppuration and sloughing. The methods adopted by surgeons also effect a cure in one of these three ways. Those which act by producing a laminated clot are (a) slow compression on the proximal side, and (&) two forms of ligation—Hunter's (proximal) and Wardrop's (distal). Those causing rapid clotting are (1) rapid compression, (2) distal compression, (3) Brasdor's ligation, (4) flexion, (5) Beid's method, (6), galvano-puncture, (7) manipulation, (8) introduction of foreign bodies, (9) acupuncture. The methods of attacking the sac itself are the old opera- tion (Antyllian) and the modern method of excision. Amputation above or below the seat of disease may also be practised. Compression.—Compression, which is the ordinary non-operative form of treatment, embraces compression of the artery above or below the seat of