539 DIFFUSED SYPHILITIC OSTITIS. Fig. 461. Syphilitic Osteoperiostitis.—This may develop early in acquired syphilis, but usually occurs iu the late secondary or tertiary stage, several years after the primary infection. The bones most frequently affected are the skull, sternum, ribs, clavicle, and tibia. The disease is manifested by the appearance of one or more tender swellings, which occur over a limited portion of one of the bones previously mentioned, and constitute the perios- teal nodes, in which the disease is limited to the periosteum and the super- ficial layers of the bone. The pain in these swellings is generally much aggravated at night. Treatment.—The treatment of syphilitic osteoperiostitis consists in the administration of iodide of potassium in doses of from ten to fifteen grains three times a day, or of iodide of potassium combined with small doses of biniodide or bichloride of mercury, if the patient is not already taking a mercurial. Under this treatment the pain, swelling, and tenderness usually quickly subside. Diffused or Rarefying Syphilitic Ostitis.—This affection is ob- served in the later stages of the disease, either acquired or hereditary, and consists in an inflammation of the periosteum and the subjacent bone, in- volving the Haversian canals and the medulla of the bone, which may contain numerous small cells and extravasated red blood-corpuscles. The disease terminates in osteosclerosis, which may involve the whole shaft of a long bone. (Fig. 461.) A number of bones are usually involved in a symmetrical manner ; distinct periosteal nodes are rarely observed in this affection. Symptoms.—The symptoms of this affection are pain and thickening of the affected bones, the pain being severe and much aggravated at night; tenderness upon pressure over the diseased bone is marked; the swelling may be apparent to the sight and touch in superficial bones, such as the tibia, ulna, clavicle, or sternum. Treatment. —This consists in the administration of iodide of potassium in ten- to fifteen-grain doses, alone or combined with small doses of mercury, which usually gives very prompt relief from the pain and tenderness, but relapses are apt to occur in time, requiring a repe- tition of the treatment. Cases are occasionally met with in which in spite of this treatment the pain and tender- ness do not disappear, and the patient becomes worn out by the loss of sleep. In such cases after a full trial of the treatment we have seen very prompt relief follow an incision into the inflamed bone by a saw. When this operation is done, the greatest care should be exercised as regards asepsis, for if microbic infection occurs in the wound, caries or necrosis, followed by a persistent sinus, may result. The bone over the seat of greatest pain should be exposed by an incision several inches in length, in the long axis of the limb, through the soft parts and the periosteum ; a Hey's saw may then be used to make an incision which opens the medullary cavity of the bone : great thickening; of the bone is often found in these cases. After Syphilitic osteosclerosis of the tibia.