38 TREATMENT OF ULCERS. Fig. 18 ulcers frequently arise from minute points of phlebitis in the small varicose veins of the skin, resulting in the formation of an abscess and sloughing of the cuticle over it, the ulcer enlarging by molecular necrosis of the edges or by the coalescence of several such periphlebitic abscesses. (Fig. 18.) Such ulcers are apt to have rather irregular undermined edges. Any injury to a limb with varicose veins is apt to result in an ulcer unless extreme care be taken during the healing, and such ulcers resemble simple or chronic ulcers elsewhere except for the deep blue color often seen in the granulations. Hemorrhage from varicose ulcers is not infrequent, and alarming amounts of blood may be lost. Phagedaena is the name given to a rapid form of ulceration most frequently seen in connection with venereal ulcers or hospital gangrene, which is un- doubtedly due to some form of bacterial infection, although its precise cause is not known. The ulcer spreads with great rapidity, with or without the h, production of large sloughs, so that in a few hours B the extension is very marked, the skin and the tis- Varioose ulcer of leg. sueg a^ ^e |jase Qf ^e ulcer appearing to melt away under its influence. This form of ulceration is, fortunately, of very rare occurrence. Treatment.—The treatment of ulcers must be directed to subduing any inflammation which may be present, removing all causes of sepsis, im- proving the circulation, promoting absorption of the induration, stimulating granulations, encouraging cicatrization, and, finally, to covering the defect in the skin by transplantation or grafting, if necessary. Many of these in- dications can be met by some single method of treatment, but none should be neglected, for the surgeon will need to make every possible effort in order to cure these intractable lesions. Inflammation is reduced by the same measures as dermatitis or cellulitis elsewhere. The parts are rendered aseptic by thorough washing and sterili- zation with chemicals as usual, and nothing is so essential to success in treat- ment as the complete maintenance of aseptic conditions. The circulation is improved by rest in bed, elevation of the part, and the pressure of bandages when there is venous congestion. Sometimes the elastic pressure of a pure rubber bandage properly applied and worn while the patient is up is all that is necessary to obtain a cure. These rubber bandages are generally known as Martin's. The ulcer should be dressed lightly with some simple solution or powder and a few thicknesses of gauze under the bandage. Elastic stockings are not to be recommended for cases of ulcer of the leg, for they are soon ruined by the discharge or the applications employed, but are ex- cellent as a prophylactic or to prevent a relapse. In some cases the establishment of asepsis and the compression and pro- tection of a good dressing and bandage are all that is necessary, and for such cases we can recommend the application of a piece of sterilized rubber tissue, cut to the shape of the ulcer, but a little larger, covered by a dry, sterile