DISPLACEMENTS OF THE UTERUS. 1187 906. Anteflexion of uterus. (Munde1 The rotation of the uterus about a transverse axis is called version. The uterus may remain at a proper level, but rotated about a transverse axis so that the fundus will be thrown backward (Fig. 905) or forward. The uterus may be displaced from its normal position in the pelvis by simple descent, and, as it must follow the natural curve of the axis of the pelvis in descending, the fundus must be thrown backward, making a retroversion. A bending of the organ is termed a flexion. A bending backward is a retroflexion, and the fundus passes into Douglas's cul-de-sac. In anteflexion the fundus turns forward so that it presses upon the bladder (Fig. 906), or even becomes promi- nent in the vagina anterior to the cervix. Lat- eral flexions of the organ are also seen, but they are less common. Flexion and version may be combined, as when a uterus which is antefiexed is then rotated backward on a transverse axis so as to become retroverted, or when it is retro- flexed and at the same time retroverted. The uterus may also be displaced as a whole, with- out version or flexion, by the pressure of tumors, the traction of adhesions, or the yielding of its ligaments. In elderly women displacements, especially prolapse, are very frequent because of the absorption of fat from the pelvis and perineum, and the conse- quent loss of support to the organs, as well as the atrophy of the fibrous tissues and the ligaments. Versions of the uterus are due to laxity of the ligaments which should keep it in position, to the pressure of a tumor which pushes the organ out of place, or to adhesions which draw it to one side, and in rare cases a congenital shortening of the anterior vaginal wall holds the cervix forward and causes a retroversion. Flexions, on the other hand, are often congenital, being due to insufficient development of the anterior or posterior wall or of one lateral half, the undeveloped portion forming the concave side of the curve. Flexion can be produced or exaggerated by the same causes that produce version, and also by an unnatural softening of the uterine tissue, especially in cases of subinvolution, where the large size of the uterus is an additional cause of the displacement. The effect of version upon the uterus is to obstruct its venous circulation and thus increase its liability to inflammation. Prolapsus.—Descent of the uterus, or falling of the womb, is called prolapse, or procidentia. It may be due to laxity of the ligaments and ab- sorption of the fat in the pelvis, especially if the uterus is heavy from sub- involution or the presence of a tumor. Laceration of the perineum is the most common cause. The displacement is therefore most common in women who have borne children, and in advanced life, but it may be seen in virgins even before the thirtieth year, as the result of falls upon the buttocks or straining in lifting heavy weights. The uterus may be only slightly below its normal position or may pass entirely out of the body and hang between the thighs, covered with the everted vagina. (Fig. 907. ) In such cases the mucous membrane becomes greatly thickened and hardened, resembling