200 MASSAGE. in boiling water or allowed to remain for a short time in a five per cent, carbolic solution. The pain produced in introducing the trocar and canula may be diminished by holding in contact with the part which is to be punc- tured, for a few minutes, a piece of ice wrapped in a towel, or by the subcu- taneous injection of a few drops of cocaine. After removing the canula, the small puncture remaining should be dressed with a compress of antiseptic or iodoform gauze, held in place by a bandage or an adhesive strip. The aspirator is used to ascertain the character of the contents of deep- seated tumors containing fluid, and is also employed in cases of hydrothorax, empyema, or ascites, to evacuate the contents of tuberculous abscesses in diseases of the hip and spine, and sometimes to relieve a distended bladder until a more radical operation can be performed. MASSAGE. This consists in a variety of manipulations, such as pinching up the integuments or muscles and rolling them between the thumb and fingers, and stroking or rubbing the surface with the palm of the hand from the periphery towards the centre, to empty the distended veins and lymphatics. Massage may also be practised by rubbing the parts circularly, or by knead- ing them, or by tapping the surface of the affected part with more or less force with the tips of the fingers held in a row, or with the ulnar border or the palm of the hand. If the part upon which these manipulations are to be practised contains a heavy growth of hair, this should be carefully removed by shaving, otherwise the manipulations are apt to give the patient pain, and abscesses may result from irritation and infection of the hair-follicles. The parts should also be rubbed over with olive oil, vaseline, or cacao butter before and during the manipulations. Massage will be found of great service in the later treatment of fractures involving the joints or in their vicinity, in restoring the motion of the parts, as well as improving the nutrition of muscles which have become wasted from disuse. Passive Motion.—This manipulation consists in alternately flexing and extending or rotating the limb to imitate the normal joint movements. The manipulations should be carefully practised, and in cases of fracture should not be undertaken until there is union at the seat of fracture. Massage may often be employed in conjunction with passive motion for the treatment of the troublesome stiffness in joints resulting from fractures, dislocations, or sprains.