ANKYLOSIS. 670 Genu reeurvatum. Treves.) Treatment.—As soon as the deformity is noticed in an infant, systematic manipulation should he practised by bending the knee in the proper di- rection, and this method of treatment if continued for some time may be followed by marked improvement in the position and motion of the joint. In cases coming under the care of the surgeon when the deformity has been untreated, re- peated manipulations under anaesthesia and fixation with plaster of Paris may be practised with improve- ment in the condition. Subcutaneous division of the anterior portion of the capsule of the joint and of the lateral ligaments has been employed, and in cases which resist these methods of treatment, excision of the joint with the view of correcting the deformity and securing bony ankylosis in good functional position would seem a justifiable procedure. ANKYLOSIS. Bony Ankylosis of the Knee.—This deformity usually results from tubercular ostitis of the knee or (Alter from rounds involving the knee-joint, followed by suppurative arthritis; bony ankylosis being apt to occur in any of these affections when the articular cartilages have been destroyed. Bony ankylosis of the knee with little deformity calls for no operative treatment, as a patient presenting this condition can usually have good use of the limb by wearing a high shoe to compensate for the shortening. When, however, the knee is ankylosed and marked angular deformity is present, as shown in Fig. 609, operative treatment is required to give the patient a useful limb. Treatment.—This deformity may be corrected by turning up a flap from the anterior surface of the knee and removing a wedge-shaped section of bone with a saw or a chisel, including the patella and a portion of the head of the tibia and condyles of the femur, the base of the wedge corresponding to the anterior surface of the knee. In removing the apex of the wedge great care should be taken to avoid injury of the popliteal vessels. After a suffi- cient amount of bone has been removed to permit of the limb being brought into a straight position, fixation of the surfaces of the bone may be secured by wire sutures or nails. The flap is replaced, the wound is closed by su- tures and covered with a gauze dressing, and the limb from the toes to the groin is fixed by a plaster of Paris dressing, which should be retained for a month and then replaced by a fresh one. Fixation should be maintained for some months even after union seems firm, otherwise there will be a tendency to recurrence of the deformity. In less aggravated cases of this deformity the correction may be accomplished by osteotomy, a. section being made through the condyles of the femur and another through the head of the tibia, which allows the limb to be brought into the straight position. The limb should then be fixed by a plaster of Paris bandage, and fixation maintained for some months.