608 DISPLACEMENT OF THE SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES. nausea, and may even vomit; the joint becomes fixed and soon shows evi- dence of synovitis. The disability may last for a few days, and usually suddenly disappears as the loose body changes its po- Fig. 541. sitiou. The patient often experiences no further dif- ficulty for months, but is likely to have a repetition of the same symptoms if the body again becomes wedged between the articular surfaces of the joint. During the interval he may be conscious of the body slipping about in the joint or in the bursa? connected with the joint, and it can often be felt at certain points, but usually quickly disappears if pressure is made upon it. Flexion and extension of the joint may again dislodge it. Patients are often able, by cer- tain motions of the joint combined with pressure and manipulation, to dislodge the body, when it can be Lknee-^teS(A^h)e felt under the skin in the region of the joint. Sooner or later synovitis develops, and as a result of the stretching of the ligaments the joint becomes weak. Treatment.—The body may be kept in place by the use of a bandage firmly applied over the joint, or by wearing a close-fitting laced knee-cap. If, however, the patient experiences pain and frequent attacks of dis- ability, if the body can be located the most satisfactory treatment is its removal by incision. As the body often slips out of view before the in- cision is made, it should be transfixed with a needle and the incision made directly down upon it. The risk of this operation, if proper care is taken as regards asepsis, is small. After the removal of the body the wound should be closed by deep sutures uniting the edges of the wound in the capsule, and finally by a layer of superficial sutures approximating the skin and connective tissue, a gauze dressing applied, and the joint kept at rest for a few weeks upon a splint or by a plaster of Paris dressing. Displacement of the Semilunar Cartilages of the Knee—A semilunar cartilage may become loosened from its capsular attachment and move in between the tibia and the femur, becoming wedged between the articular surfaces. This may occur in a healthy joint, or in one in which synovitis or osteo arthritis exists. The cartilage may be entirely detached from the tibia, and may become wedged between the articular ends of the bones, causing locking of the joint. A patient who has once suffered from displacement of a semilunar cartilage is likely to have a recurrence of the displacement. Symptoms.—When this accident occurs the leg becomes suddenly par- tially flexed and the knee-joint locked ; the patient complains of severe pain in the knee, and is unable to bear his weight upon it; at the same time he may suffer from nausea and vomiting. Some swelling of the joint may follow the accident, but quickly subsides after the cartilage is replaced. Treatment.—The replacement of the cartilage can usually be accom- plished by flexing and extending the knee-joint, at the same time making rotation. As the muscles hold the knee very rigidly and the manipulations are painful, it may be necessary to give an anaesthetic. Patients who fre-