SYMPTOMS OF HERNIA. 982 gas developing in it, by serum which transudes in consequence of the im- peded circulation, or by additional fecal matter being driven into it from above. The effect of this distention is to draw more bowel down into the hernial sac, the expanding wall of the incarcerated loop pulling on the intestinal wall above, and this also draws down more mesentery into the ring and increases the pressure at that point. Complete obstruction to the passage of fecal contents and complete irreducibility may be present when the constriction is not tight enough to produce any mechanical disturbance of the circulation of the incarcerated loop. The first changes produced in the bowel by strangulation are venous congestion and oedema, followed by cessation of the circulation and finally by death of the tissues, which is apt to begin on the mucous membrane and extend outward to the serous surface. Before necrosis takes place, fibrin is thrown out on the peritoneal surface. Bacteria undoubtedly pass through the intestinal wall when the circulation is stagnant, and may cause inflammation and suppuration of the sac, but the exact conditions which favor their passage are not yet under- stood, as their outward movement seems to be independent of the duration and of the severity of the constriction. The constriction may be caused by the fibrous ring outside of the sac or by the neck of the sac itself, as the latter is apt to become narrowed and converted into a tough fibrous band when the hernia has existed for some time. In rare cases the strangulation may take place within the sac, a loop of bowel slipping through an opening in the omentum, or being constricted by a diverticulum or a band of peritoneal adhesions. Strangulation is rarely seen in a hernia containing no intestine. Symptoms.—The symptoms of a reducible hernia are the existence of the hernial swelling, occasionally local pain or discomfort, or merely a feel- ing of weakness, and a tendency to constipation owing to the obstruction to the bowels caused by their protrusion. The tendency of a hernia is to in- crease in size, the ligamentous structures about the neck of the sac stretch- ing and more of the abdominal contents being constantly prolapsed. The beginning of the formation of a hernia has sometimes been marked by pain in the groin, the testicle, the back, or the abdomen before any protrusion has been noticed. In children a rupture even of large size may leave no trace after reduction, and it may be difficult to prove that the ring is larger than normal, so that two surgeons examining the child on different occasions might give opposite opinions as to the existence of a hernia. Inguinal and femoral hernia? are more common on the right side. A very large scrotal hernia draws on the skin in all directions, even depriving the penis of its covering, so that the organ disappears under the skin, leaving at its normal situation a depression which looks like the umbilicus. (Fig. 793.) The hernial tumor varies in size from a scarcely perceptible swelling to one twice the size of a man's head, the largest being of the umbilical and inguinal varieties. The tumor is covered with normal skin not adherent to the sac, but the skin may be very thin, or ulcerated by the pressure of a truss or bandage, large portions sometimes sloughing, with great danger of infec- tion of the contents from the resulting suppuration. The tumor may be soft and compressible ; or firm or doughy if it contains omentum or if the