756 CHRONIC SUPERFICIAL GLOSSITIS. of acute glossitis. Symptoms.—The symptoms are largely those of acute glossitis: the tongue becomes swollen and may be protruded from the mouth, swallowing and speech are difficult and painful, salivation is pro- fuse, and the patient sits with the head bent forward, to allow the saliva to escape from the mouth and prevent painful efforts at swallowing. Sleep in the recumbent position is impossible ou account of the saliva running back and causing efforts at swallowing. Upon examination of the tongue a sense of fluctuation upon palpation can generally be felt at some point. Treatment.—Early incision is indicated in these cases, even if fluctuation cannot be distinctly made out. A free incision should be made, and if pus does not escape, a director should be introduced into the incision and pushed in different directions through the tissues, which will usually be followed by the escape of pus. The relief of distressing symptoms is generally very prompt after the abscess is opened. After opening the abscess an antiseptic mouth-wash should be employed. In chronic abscess of the tongue, as soon as the location of the abscess is ascertained an incision should.be made to evacuate the pus. Chronic Superficial Glossitis.—This condition is also described as leucoplakia, psoriasis, and ichthyosis linguce, affections of the tongue which are occasionally seen, and which result Fig. 673. from chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane, with localized thickening of the epithelium. It arises from excessive smoking, from the constant introduction of irri- tating substances into the mouth, from the use of undiluted alcoholic beverages, and from syphilis. (Fig. 673.) It is of interest to the surgeon from the fact that if the condition is not relieved and the irritating causes are not removed there of- ten develops persistent ulceration, which may give rise to epithelioma. Treatment.—This consists in re- moving all irritating causes, and in syphilitic cases employing mercury and iodide of potassium, with the local use of mild antiseptic mouth- washes. The diet should be regu- lated, and smoking and the use of alcohol interdicted. The local use of a one per cent, solution of chromic or salicylic acid is often followed by good results. Ulceration of the Tongue.—Ulceration of the tongue may result from wounds, burns, or scalds of the organ, or from the sharp edges of carious or broken teeth, and also from disturbance of the digestive system. The latter ulceration is often multiple, may occupy large surfaces of the organ, and is most frequently seen in children. Ulceration of the under Chronic superficial glossitis. (Museum of the German Hospital of Philadelphia.)