SYMPTOMS OF GONORRHOEA. 1053 citing irritation and thus rendering the tissues less resistant to invasion. The presence of the gonococcus in inflammatory discharges in cases where no specific infection can be found in the other partner in the sexual act has led certain observers, as Taylor, to suggest that the gonococcus may be an inhabitant of the normal urethra which is capable under favoring circum- stances of becoming virulent. The possibility of error should act as a warning against the too hasty expression of an opinion as to the specific nature of any case. Pathology.—The infection of the urethra occurs almost invariably during the sexual act, although mediate contagion, in which towels, etc., act as carriers of infection, is, of course, possible. The gonococcus having gained admission to the urethra, there elapses a period of incubation varying from two to fourteen days, the majority of cases developing in the first week. In very susceptible persons, especially those with lesions of the urethra remaining uncured from previous attacks, symptoms may show themselves within forty-eight hours. Non-specific urethritis has no true period of incu- bation, and may come on in the course of a few hours. During the incubation stage the gonococci are multiplying and pene- trating between the epithelial cells, beginning at the fossa navicularis and travelling backward. The diplococcus finds its way between the epithelial cells to the superficial layers of the subepithelial connective tissue, where it excites a violent inflammatory reaction, consisting in the migration of leucocytes and serum from the dilated capillaries and a lifting up and ex- foliation of the epithelium. In the subepithelial tissue the process of bac- terial growth goes on attended by round-cell infiltration and bacterial invasion of the pus-cells coincident with the purulent stage of the disease. The process of elimination and repair takes place by a conversion of the epithelium from a columnar to a squamous type, which the gonococci cannot penetrate. Symptoms.—The first symptom noticed at the end of the period of incubation is a slight tickling or itching sensation referred to, or immedi- ately behind, the meatus, with a little burning during or after urination, accompanied by a slight mucous discharge, perhaps gluing the lips of the meatus together. The lips of the meatus soon swell, becoming slightly reddened, and often everted. The discharge increases, and, while at first consisting of epithelial cells with gonococci attached and a few pus-cells, soon becomes milky, and after a few days decidedly purulent and thick yellow or yellowish green. (Plate IV., Fig. 5.) The disease reaches its height from the seventh to the tenth day. There is then profuse dis- charge, ardor urince, or burning in urination, the glans is reddened, some- times swollen, and oedema of the prepuce, with consequent phimosis or paraphimosis, is not uncommon. The whole organ may become swollen, and, as the disease spreads backward along the urethra, the corpus spongi- osum becomes involved by extension, and is painful and tender. With the ardor urinse there is a change in the size and shape of the stream, from the swelling of the mucous membrane making it smaller, and often twisted or forked, simulating stricture. Eetention of urine may follow implication of the prostate. There is generally increased sexual feeling, and frequent