975 INGUINAL HERNIA. lipoma has been given, and this mass may grow outward and make trac- tion upon the peritoneum, forming a peritoneal pouch, which is said to pre- dispose to the formation of hernia. These pouches, however, may exist without any hernia, and hence the efficiency of this cause is doubtful. Scars situated in the abdominal wall tend to the production of hernia by the stretching of the cicatricial tissue. Heredity appears to have a very de- cided influence upon the occurrence of hernia, and, according to Macready, ruptures in the grandparents are of more importance than those in the parents, especially for the occurrence of the congenital varieties. The number of males affected with hernia is about six times as great as that of females, doubtless owing to the frequency of inguinal hernia and the impos- sibility of the complete closure of this canal in the male. Hernia often accompanies retention, malposition, or delayed descent of the testicle. Hernia is exceedingly common in infants under one year of age, very rarely appeals from infancy to puberty, at puberty again becomes common, and this proportion remains about the same until late in life. Although the total number of cases of hernia observed in elderly persons is less, the oc- currence of hernia in the aged is relatively just as frequent as earlier in life, for the total number of old people in the population is proportionally less. It is true that the fibrous tissues are lax and the fat is absorbed in advanced age, so that the abdominal wall is decidedly weakened, but elderly persons are less subject to severe muscular effort and the other mechanical causes which produce hernia. The freedom of early childhood from hernia is sup- posed to be due to similar reasons, children not making the violent efforts necessary to produce the trouble, and hernia appearing in them only when there is a congenital weakness of one of the abdominal openings. Varieties.—The different anatomical varieties of hernia are named from the openings through which they escape, the inguinal being by far the most common, and next being the femoral and the umbilical. Hernia also occurs through the obturator foramen, the sacro-sciatic notch, and the diaphragm. Congenital deficiencies or weak places occasionally exist in other parts of the abdominal wall where hernia may afterwards develop, these hernia? and those which come through cicatrices being known as ventral hernia?. Inguinal Hernia.—Inguinal hernia is nearly twelve times as frequent as femoral, and is much more common in men than in women, the proportion being ten to one. In women, however, inguinal and femoral hernia? occur with equal frequency. There are several varieties of inguinal hernia. When the testicle has descended into the scrotum, the peritoneal canal may not close in the normal manner, and different forms of hernia depend upon these variations. When the canal remains patent in its entire length and a hernia takes place, its contents pass down into the tunica vaginalis and are in contact with the testicle, a condition known as congenital hernia. (Fig. 789.) The adjective "congenital" refers to the anatomical condition and not to the hernia, for the latter may not appear until late in life. When the canal is obliterated near the testicle, remaining open above, a prolapse into it is called a hernia into the funicular process. (Fig. 790.) When the canal is only closed above at the internal ring and the tunica vaginalis extends up to that point, a rare variety of hernia may form, in which the protrusion pushes