164 CHLORIDE OF ZINC. in glycerin, iodoform, si, glycerin, gx. or an emulsion of iodoform made by adding sterilized iodoform, 3i, to boiled olive oil, 3X, is much employed as an injection in the treatment of tubercular abscesses and joints. We have seldom seen any toxic effects follow the use of iodoform, although numer- ous cases have been reported in which toxic symptoms were observed, such as urticaria] eruptions, headache, depression, delirium, mania becoming permanent, debility, and sleeplessness, and sometimes heart derangements. Elderly persons and infants are more prone to the toxic action of iodoform than young persons or adults. Aristol.—Aristol, which is a compound of iodine and thymol, has been introduced as a substitute for iodoform. It is said to produce no toxic effects, and is without disagreeable odor, but clinically it does not com- pare in value with iodoform. It may be employed for the same purpose as iodoform, and it seems to be particularly useful as a dressing for chronic and specific ulcers. Iodol.—This drug possesses antiseptic properties, and is employed for the same purpose as iodoform and aristol. It has much less odor than the former, is soluble in alcohol, ether, and oil, and may be used in the form of a solution or in dry powder. It is used for the same purpose as iodo- form, and is much employed as a local application in inflammatory and ulcerated conditions of the mucous membrane of the nose and throat. Acetate of Aluminum.—This substance is prepared by adding sugar of lead, 5 parts, to a solution of 5 parts of alum in 500 parts of dis- tilled water. It has decided germicidal qualities, is employed for irrigation and moist dressing where carbolic or bichloride solutions cannot be used, and is by all means the safest and best antiseptic substance for wet dressings. Beta-Naphtol.—Beta-naphtol is employed for much the same pur- pose as bichloride of mercury, and is used in 1 to 2500 solution, but is not so powerful a germicide. As it does not possess marked toxic qualities, it is employed in the irrigation of large cavities, and as it does not corrode in- struments, it is especially useful as a bath for them. It is also used as a substitute for the carbolic acid solution, as it possesses the advantage of not irritating the skin of the surgeon's hands. Chloride of Zinc.—Chloride of zinc in a solution of 15 to 30 grains to an ounce of water has marked antiseptic properties. When employed in solutions of this strength upon raw surfaces it produces marked blanching of the tissues, and is especially useful as an application to infected wounds. We have found it the best application in infected wounds which are re- ceived in the dissection of dead bodies and in operations. In such cases the whole surface of the wound should be swabbed with a thirty-grain solution of chloride of zinc, and the wound then dressed with iodoform or bichloride gauze. Sulpho-Carbolate of Zinc—This drug is less irritating than chlo- ride of zinc, and possesses the same antiseptic properties. It is used in solutions of the same strength and for the same purpose as the chloride. Peroxide of Hydrogen.—Peroxide of hydrogen is employed in what is known as the 15-volume solution. It may be used in this strength or may be diluted. It seems to have a direct action upon pus-generation by de-