FEACTURES OF THE LARYNX AND TRACHEA. 845 mated with sutures, and the superficial wound then closed with sutures. If dyspnoea occurs after the wound has been closed, the trachea should be opened below the wouud and a tracheotomy-tube introduced. In cases of extensive incised and lacerated wounds, it is safer to perform tracheotomy and introduce a tube, plugging the trachea above the tube with iodoform gauze, to prevent the entrance of blood into the lungs, the packing also serving to retain the fragments in position. The tracheotomy-tube should be worn for a week or ten days, until the wound is healed, the patient being kept in bed with the head thrown forward, so as to relieve the wound from tension, and for a few days fed with a stomach-tube or by nutritious enemata, as swallowing is painful and tends to disturb the parts. Fractures of the Larynx and Trachea.—Fractures of the carti- lages of the larynx and trachea may occur at any age, although ossification of the cartilages does not take place until advanced life. Fractures of the cartilages of the larynx and trachea may be produced by blows, or by vio- lent squeezing of the parts, or by hanging. Symptoms.—Pain, followed by rapid swelling and deformity of the neck, is a prominent symptom ; bloody expectoration, emphysema of the neck, and alteration or loss of voice, are often present, and respiration and deglutition soon become difficult. Marked dyspnoea is a very common symptom of this injury. Every frac- ture of the larynx or trachea should be considered a most serious injury, for if dangerous symptoms do not immediately follow, inflammatory symp- toms may supervene later, which will cause a fatal termination unless prompt treatment is resorted to. In twenty-seven cases of fracture of the larynx reported by Hunt, ten recovered and seventeen died. Treatment. —In cases of fracture of the larynx or trachea, where there is little displace- ment and dyspnoea is not marked, the parts should be supported by the application of a compress of lint held in place by adhesive straps, and the patient should be kept at rest in bed with the head and neck immobilized as far as possible. If, however, there is free exxiectoration of blood, and the respiration is embarrassed, tracheotomy should be promptly performed, and if the injury is seated in the larynx the displacement of the fragments may be overcome by manipulation with the finger or a director through the tracheal wound, or the larynx may be packed with strips of antiseptic gauze to control hemorrhage and hold the fragments in position, the patient in the mean time breathing through a tracheotomy-tube secured in the tracheal wouud. The packing should be removed in a few days, the tracheotomy- tube being permanently removed as soon as the patient can breathe comfort- ably through the larynx with the tracheal wound closed. In fractures of the trachea, if possible, the opening into the trachea should be below the seat of injury. Scalds or Burns of the Larynx.—These injuries arise from the inhalation of steam or flame, or may result from the action of caustic sub- stances, such as lye or ammonia, which are swallowed and come in contact with the epiglottis or find their way into the larynx. Scalds of the larynx arising from the inhalation of steam are the most frequent of these injuries, and are commonly seen in children who have attempted to drink from the spout of a tea-kettle containing hot water. Symptoms.—Pain and grad-