HYDROPHOBIA. 67 none. The instances of marked oesophageal spasm are rather rare. The paralysis is to be considered a sign of virulence in the infection, and de- pends upon a paralyzing agent among the toxines of the tetanus bacillus. It is always limited to the part first affected, although the spasms generally extend to the rest of the body. Treatment.—The most important recent addition to treatment has been the discovery of the apparent curative effects of the tetanus antitoxine by Tizzoni and Cattani. The protective serum is obtained by injecting animals with the pure cultures of the germ until they become immune, and drawing blood-serum from them. This is employed in hypodermic injections. Sev- eral instances of cure apparently due to the serum have been reported, but the majority of these have been of the chronic form of tetanus, so that the usefulness of the method is still uncertain. Other treatment avails little. The first necessity is thoroughly to disinfect any suppurating wound which may be found, to remove sloughs and foreign bodies, and to secure proper drainage. Chloroform or amyl nitrite may be given by inhalation to palliate the paroxysms, and their effect will be increased by morphine in one-fourth to one-half grain doses hypodermically. In mild cases chloral hydrate and bromide of potassium in from fifteen- to twenty-grain doses up to the limit of safety have proved useful. Curare has been recommended, but is dangerous and not of marked benefit. Nourishment must be maintained by a catheter passed into the pharynx through the nose, as it will be impossible to open the jaws. It is generally necessary to move the bowels with enemata and to draw the urine. The patient must be confined in a dark, quiet room, under the care of one or two persons only, and every noise or sudden motion must be avoided, as well as any unnecessary handling of the body. Verneuil has suggested wrapping the entire body in cotton and confining it in splints. The former operative treatment by neurotomy or nerve-stretching or ampu- tation was based on an erroneous theory, which ascribed the disease to reflexes from wounds or scars, and has been abandoned. Amputation may still be practised when the thorough disinfection of the injured limb is impossible or other conditions demand it, and operations are usually well borne by such patients if performed early. Tetanus is best treated by pre- vention, and, fortunately, the asepsis of modern surgery appears able to prevent it, probably as much by rendering wounds unfavorable to its de- velopment as by actual destruction of the germ. HYDROPHOBIA. ' Lyssa, Rabies.—Hydrophobia is an infectious disease affecting the ner- vous system, marked by spasm of the pharynx and glottis, excited by at- tempts at swallowing, followed by general muscular convulsions and death. It originates in animals of the dog and wolf tribe, but is communicable through the saliva of any rabid animal when inoculated in a wound of any of the warm-blooded animals. Although there can be no doubt of its bac- terial origin because of the period of incubation, the infectiousness, and the possibility of destroying the virus by the ordinary germicidal methods, the specific microbe has not yet been discovered. The mad dog shows his dis- ease by a prodromal state of affection, then by paroxysms of rage, followed