918 TREATMENT OF PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. of military surgery, because it is impossible ou the field to secure the facil- ities for performing this heroic operation, and it is too late to attempt it by the time the wounded reach the main hospitals. Operations of this kind, whether in cases of contusion or of gunshot wound, are performed like any ordinary laparotomy, except that great rapidity of execution is necessary in order to lessen the shock. If the patient is already in severe shock from the injury, the operation should be deferred until reaction has been obtained. During the operation the ab- domen and all exposed viscera must be kept carefully covered with hot damp cloths. The incision should be sufficiently large to permit rapid ex- amination of the abdomen. The situation of the contusion or wound is the guide to the organ injured, and this region should first be examined and any wounds treated as necessary. But the surgeon should not be content with this, and every part of the abdomen should be carefully explored, for it has frequently occurred that one wound of the intestine has been found and treated, while other injuries have been overlooked. Single wounds of the gut or stomach are closed by Lembert sutures, or, if the bowel has been en- tirely divided, a Murphy button or lateral anastomosis should be employed. If there are several wounds close together, the entire loop of bowel should be resected. Wounds of the bowel can sometimes be closed most rapidly by stitching the serous surface of a neighboring loop of intestine against the open wound. It may be necessary to secure the open ends of the bowel in the abdominal wound without attempting to suture them, if the patient is in collapse. If a large quantity of blood is found on opening the abdomen, the operator or his first assistant should immediately compress the aorta at the root of the mesentery with one hand while the wounded part is being sought for. The lacerated spleen should be removed after ligature of the pedicle. Wounds of the liver may be brought together and all hemorrhage controlled by a few deep sutures, or they may be packed with gauze. Injury to the mesenteric vessels requires resection of as much of the bowel as has its circulation impaired. The injury to the viscera having been dealt with, the wound is to be rapidly closed. If fecal extravasation has occurred, the peritoneal cavity should be washed out and a drainage-tube inserted. (For the treatment of injuries of the kidney and bladder, see those chapters.) Wounds of the abdominal wall without injury to the viscera are to be closed by sutures after careful sterilization. The wound should be wiped out thoroughly and carefully packed with gauze, then the skin is to be cleaned and sterilized, and, finally, the wound itself washed with the ster- ilizing solutions, with due care that none enters the peritoneal cavity. If the omentum prolapses, the protruding part should be ligated, cut away, and the stump replaced. The prolapsed viscera should be cleansed and returned, the wound being enlarged, if necessary. The prolapsed spleen has frequently been ligated and removed with a successful result. THE GENERAL TECHNIQUE OF ABDOMINAL SURGERY. The opening of the peritoneal cavity has usually been called laparotomy, but some prefer the term coeliotomy for such operations, whether the cavity is opened through the abdominal wall or through the vagina.