407 INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE. Removal of Meckel's Ganglion.—The incision for the removal of this ganglion should be a curved one, extending from canthus to canthus, about a fourth of an inch below the orbit. If more room is required, this incision may be supplemented by a straight incision made at right angles to the first one. The infra-orbital nerve is found, and a ligature attached to it. The anterior wall of the antrum is next perforated with a three quarter-inch trephine or a gouge, including the infra-orbital foramen. The posterior wall of the antrum is then perforated with a half-inch trephine or a gouge. In removing the section of bone from the posterior wall great care should be taken to avoid injury of the internal maxillary artery, which lies just behind the opening in the bone. The nerve is next divided in advance of the fora- men, and after breaking down the wall of the bony canal it is traced back to the spheno maxillary fossa and to the foramen rotundum, and the nerve and ganglion just below the foramen are cut away with blunt-pointed curved scissors. Hemorrhage is controlled by packing the wound with strips of iodoform gauze; after this has been controlled the wound is closed with sutures. Inferior Dental Nerve.—This nerve is exposed by a horizontal incision two inches in length behind the angle and along the border of the lower jaw, which is less likely to divide branches of the seventh nerve than a ver- tical incision would be. The incision is carried down to the bone, the soft parts are pushed upward on the vertical ramus, the posterior portion of the masseter muscle is pushed forward, and when the angle of the jaw is fully exposed a half-inch trephine is applied an inch and a quarter above the angle. When the disk of bone has been removed the nerve is exposed in the canal, is lifted and stretched with an aneurismal needle, and as much as possible of it is resected. If the inferior dental artery is wounded, free bleeding occurs, which can be controlled by ligatures, or by plugging the canal with a piece of catgut, or by packing with iodoform gauze. The inferior dental nerve may also be exposed through the mouth. The mouth being held open with a gag on the opposite side, an incision should be made along the anterior border of the lower jaw, extending from the last upper molar to the corresponding tooth in the lower jaw. After division of the mucous membrane the finger should be inserted between the internal pterygoid muscle and the ramus of the jaw, to separate the muscle and feel for the sharp projection of bone which marks the orifice of the inferior dental canal. An aneurismal needle should then be passed forward from the inner aspect of the jaw, and the nerve should be hooked upon this and drawn forward. In resecting the nerve care should be taken not to injure the inferior dental artery, which will give rise to troublesome hemorrhage. For operations upon the Gasserian ganglion, see Surgery of the Head. The Lingual Nerve.—This nerve may be exposed by passing a ligature through the tongue and pulling it forcibly towards the opposite side to make the nerve tense ; the nerve can then be felt as a firm cord beneath the mu- cous membrane of the floor of the mouth between the jaw and the tongue. An incision is made through the mucous membrane at this point, and the nerve is raised upon an aneurismal needle and resected or stretched. It may also be found under the mucous membrane close to the lower jaw