516 INFECTIVE OSTEOMYELITIS. the condition is developed after amputation or compound fracture, the most important factor in treatment is to secure free drainage and see that further infection of the wound is prevented. Acute Infective Osteomyelitis.—This is essentially a septic inflam- mation of the medulla of bone, which is caused by infection by pyogenic organisms, resulting in suppuration and necrosis. It is accompanied by marked constitutional disturbance, and may lead to a fatal termination from septicaemia or pyaemia, or from exhaustion following the profuse dis- charge. Clinically two varieties of infective osteomyelitis are recognized : traumatic osteomyelitis and the so-called spontaneous osteomyelitis. Traumatic Osteomyelitis.—This variety of osteomyelitis was formerly very common, and was recognized as one of the most serious complications which followed compound fractures and operations upon bone. In com- pound or gunshot fractures, or after amputation or resection of bone, if the wound is infected at the time of operation or afterwards, inflammation occurs in the medullary canal, followed by suppuration and destruction of a limited portion or the whole of the bone ; the patient at the same time may develop symptoms of septicaemia or pyaemia. The medullary canal being exposed, the infection may occur primarily or may result from organisms entering it from suppuration in the surrounding parts. When infection has once taken place it may involve only a limited amount of the bone, or may extend throughout the canal, and, the products of inflammation being confined within the bony walls and having no outlet, thrombosis and arrest of circu- lation take place, and necrosis results. In osteomyelitis after amputation the medulla becomes inflamed, suppu- ration occurs, and, if the constitutional infection does not cause death, the bone becomes necrosed and a tubular sequestrum forms, which in time separates from the surrounding healthy bone. At the same time that inflammatory changes are taking place in the bone, the patient exhibits more or less elevation of temperature and ac- celeration of the pulse, and in many cases develops septicaemia or pyaemia. Treatment.—The prophylactic treatment consists in thorough steriliza- tion of all wounds of bone and in the exercise of the greatest care to prevent wound-infection during and after operations upon bone. When osteomye- litis has developed in a compound fracture or an amputation, the bone should be exposed and the inflamed medullary caual opened and scraped or curetted and irrigated with a bichloride solution ; after drainage by gauze or tubes has been established, the wound should be closed ; if necrosed bone is present, it should be removed. Under this treatment the disease is gen- erally arrested, and the constitutional symptoms rapidly disappear. Spontaneous Osteomyelitis.—The so-called spontaneous osteomye- litis occurs without the presence of a wound of the bone, the infection being carried by pyogenic organisms which reach the medulla by the circulation. The disease generally affects the long bones, and is seen most frequently in children. It usually starts near the epiphyseal line, and often spreads rap- idly, so that it soon involves the whole shaft of the bone. The bones most frequently affected are the femur, tibia, humerus, fibula, and radius. The portion of the bone at which there is the greatest blood-supply is usually the