DISEASES OF BONK 512 articular surface of the bone. Ankylosis occurring from fracture near a joint is usually due to thickening of the tissues about the joint and from disuse of the joint, and is not apt to be permanent. On the other hand, when there is displacement of the articular surface of one of the bones making up the joint, the ankylosis is apt to be permanent. This is one of the most troublesome complications in fractures near or involving the elbow- or knee-joint. In cases of ankylosis of a joint following fracture, massage and pas- sive motion will do much to overcome the stiffness at the joint and restore its function, being of course followed by better results in case of ankylo- sis from disuse and periarticular thickening than where there has been abso- lute involvement of the joint in the fracture. Muscular Wasting.—This condition may result from disuse of the muscles consequent upon the prolonged use of fixation apparatus, or from injury of or pressure upon nerves as the result of the fracture. In the former case, when the splints are removed and union at the seat of fracture is firm, the use of massage as well as exercise of the affected muscles will soon restore their function. Muscular wasting following nerve injury or pressure should be treated by galvanism ; if this fails to be followed by benefit it may be necessary to expose the nerve, and if it is divided to unite it by sutures; excision of a degenerated portion of the nerve, or the re- moval of callus pressing upon it, may also be required. Restoration of Function after Fracture.—In cases of fracture the union of the bone is usually firm in from six to eight weeks, but the resto- ration of function in the injured part is sometimes delayed for many weeks or months, which is often due to a prolonged immobilization or failure to practise passive motion during the course of treatment. The part, after the removal of the splints and dressings, is painful, and swells upon being placed in a dependent position, from loss of tone in the blood-vessels, and there is also more or less stiffness of the joints and tendons. The restoration of function can best be hastened by massage and rubbing the skin with soap liniment, and by encouraging the patient to use the part carefully. The application of a flannel bandage, which possesses some elasticity, may be followed by good results in diminishing the amount of swelling. The swell- ing is most marked after fractures of the lower extremity, and patients should not allow the part to remain in a dependent position for too long a time, but should constantly change its position. Massage and passive motion are the two most valuable means of hastening the restoration of function after fractures. DISEASES OF BONE. PEKIOSTITIS. This consists in an inflammation of the periosteum, usually resulting from microbic infection, and may be classified as Acute Suppurative, Chronic or Tubercular, Syphilitic, and Actinomycotic Periostitis. Acute Suppurative Periostitis. -This affection sometimes follows injuries and wounds of bone, and the disease if limited in extent and properly treated is not followed by extensive necrosis. In these cases the periosteum