METHODS OF STERILIZATION. 9 quently inoculated could thrive. By others this protection is supposed to be due to the production of certain substances by the bacterial growth which remain in the body and render it immune against that particular form of infection. In favor of the latter theory is the fact that if the serum of an animal which has been rendered immune against a certain bacterium be injected into another susceptible animal, the same immunity can be tempo- rarily reproduced in the second animal. The exact nature of these immu- nizing substances is uncertain, but it is supposed that the circulation of the toxines of bacteria in the body stimulates the latter to produce another albu- minoid substance in the blood-serum which is an antidote to the toxine, and therefore called an antitoxine. The production of this substance must in some cases go on indefinitely, for the animal remains permanently immune against the germ in question ; but if the serum of such an animal be intro- duced into a second one, as just mentioned, the immunity of the latter is only temporary, for the substance appears to be eliminated after a certain interval. Immunity against tetanus produced in this way (by serum) can be transmitted by an immune mother simply by descent, although not to the full strength in which she possesses it; and it can also be transmitted to some extent by the milk of an immune animal. The male parent appears to have little part in this hereditary transmission. Immunity has also been explained by the theory of phagocytosis (Metchnikoff). According to this theory, the power of the leucocytes to destroy bacteria is more active in immune individuals than in others, and that function can be cultivated by a sort of evolutionary process. Whatever the explanation, the demonstrated facts of immunity and of the possibility of producing it by injecting the serum of immune animals have formed the basis of the newly introduced serum-therapy, for it has been found that this serum will not only confer im- munity against infection, but will enable the animal to throw off an infection which has already taken place. Diphtheria, hydrophobia, tetanus, anthrax, glanders, and even pneumonia, are instances in which at least partial suc- cess has been obtained by this method. Methods of Sterilization.—Most important, practically, is the ques- tion how to exclude or destroy micro-organisms, a question which is very difficult to answer definitely on account of the variations in the vitality of the germs and the possibility of numerous errors in the experiments. Thus, it was long thought that a solution of 1 to 1000 of bichloride of mercury would kill germs, and even spores, with certainty and rapidity, three min- utes being the longest time of exposure supposed necessary ; but these con- clusions have proved erroneous. The usual method of testing such solutions was to put in them a thread impregnated with the germ to be tested, and then inoculate suitable media with the thread, concluding that if the culture medium remained sterile it proved that the germs had been killed. But it has been found that the negative results thus obtained were worthless, for enough of the chemical remained in the thread and the germs to prevent the latter from developing and to keep the culture sterile, although the bacteria were still alive. "Washing with water and alcohol proving insufficient to remove the antiseptics, it was found necessary to neutralize them by chemi- cal action, such, for instance, as the use of sidphide of ammonium to pre-