350 ANEURISMAL VARIX. carbonate and phosphate of calcium, which coalesce into flat plates (Fig. 268) or annular bands, constituting laminar or annular calcification. (Fig. 269.) Partial or complete separation of these plates sometimes gives rise to thrombosis or embolism. ^IG- 269- Atheromatous degeneration of an artery is an im- portant factor in the causation of aneurism, as the ves- sel is apt to yield at the situation of an atheromatous ulcer. The atheromatous condition of superficial ves- sels, such as the radial, the femoral, and the temporal, can often be distinctly felt by the finger. Treatment.—There is no treatment that can re- store to its normal condition an artery in which athe- Fig. 268. Atheroma of the arch of the aorta. (Agnew.) Annular calcification of the brachial, radial, and ulnar arteries. (Agnew.) romatous changes have taken place, but a patient presenting such conditions should avoid arterial strains and excesses of all kinds. Syphilitic Arteritis.—This form of arteritis affects the smaller arte- ries of the brain and viscera; the vessels become thickened, indurated, and narrowed, and as the result of these vascular changes cerebral softening and gummatous degeneration of the tissues occur. The only treatment which is of value in these cases is the use of iodide of potassium, or of this drug com- bined with mercury. The arterial changes resulting from syphilis are con- sidered by some authorities to be important factors in the production of aneurism. Tuberculous Arteritis.—In this condition the inner coat of the artery is very much thickened, the other coats present inflammatory changes, and the lumen of the vessel may be much diminished. The condition results from the tubercle bacilli infiltrating the walls of the artery. ARTERIO-VENOUS ANEURISM. This affection consists in an abnormal communication between a vein and an artery, and is recognized as existing in two forms, aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism. Aneurismal Varix.—This consists in a direct communication between an artery and an adjacent vein, the arterial blood passing freely into the