1126 NEPHROTOMY. sutures are then passed through the muscular part of the wound on each side, drawing the cut edges together in its entire extent. The deep sutures iu the kidney are then drawn fairly tight and tied, in order to keep the organ against the muscles, and the skin and fascia are next sutured. The patient should be confined to bed for three weeks, in order to obtain firm cicatricial tissue in the wound before any strain is put upon it. It is abso- lutely necessary to open the fibrous capsule of the kidney in doing this operation, as strong adhesions cannot otherwise be obtained. The sutures do not seem to affect the renal tissues, and cause no symptoms after the operation, except that a few drops of blood may be found in the urine. It is seldom possible to replace the kidney exactly in its normal position, but this appears to be of little importance provided that it be firmly fixed. Some operators, therefore, have united it to the abdominal wall very much lower down, and this would be allowable if adhesions existed which pre- vented the return of the organ to its natural situation. The results of nephrorrhaphy appear to be good and permanent. Nephrotomy.—Nephrotomy is the operation of incising the kidney. The kidney can be reached by an oblique incision beginning at the edge of the quadratus lumborum at its attachment to the twelfth rib and passing ob- liquely forward and downward, terminating about an inch above the crest of the ilium. The patient should be in the position already described. The skin, subcutaneous fascia, and muscle are divided in order, and the perito- neum exposed in the anterior angle of the incision. The kidney is then sought in the posterior angle and seized by its fatty capsule and brought into the wound. An opening is made in the fatty capsule, which readily strips off the kidney, and the organ is steadied by the pressure of an assistant's hands on the abdomen and by the operator's fingers in the wound. In- cisions can then be made into any part of the kidney, but, as a rule, it is best to make them through the kidney-substance rather than directly into the pelvis, as the latter incisions are apt to leave a permanent urinary fistula. The hemorrhage from the kidney is brisk and yet not extreme, and the in- cision may be made with an ordinary scalpel, but it should be only large enough to admit the finger, and the latter should be promptly thrust into it. While the surgeon is making the exploration the pressure of the finger will control the hemorrhage, and the insertion of the sutures will finally arrest it. The incision in the kidney-substance may be sutured and primary union obtained. Three or four deep sutures of catgut are employed, and the external wound may then be closed, a drainage-tube or a wick of gauze being carried down to the surface of the kidney near the sutured point, in order to make sure of drainage in case the sutures do not hold. After a nephrotomy there is frequently blood in the urine for a few days, and it may be so abundant as to form clots in the ureter and in the bladder, with colic and other symptoms of blocking of the ureter or of the urethra. When nephrotomy is performed for drainage also it is better to make the incision through the substance of the kidney rather than through the pelvis, and the drainage-tube may be inserted through this opening into the pelvis. The tissue of the pelvis itself is too thin for the successful application of sutures, and leakage usually follows.