NECROSIS OF THE JAWS. 766 deformity by expanding its walls, often present symptoms similar to those of antral abscess, and have sometimes been confounded with this affection. The most important diagnostic symptoms of abscess of the antrum are the periodical escape of pus from the nose and the presence of diseased upper bicuspid and molar teeth on the same side of the jaw. Transillumination has recently been employed to demonstrate the presence of pus in the antrum ; this is accomplished by placing a small electric lamp in the mouth and closing the jaws, when if the antrum is in a healthy condition a trans- lucent curved band of light appears beneath each lower eyelid, which band does not appear if the antrum contains pus; a tumor of the antrum will also interfere with the development of the band of light, so that this method of diagnosis is not absolutely reliable. Treatment.—If a dead or carious tooth or stump is present in the region of the antrum, its removal will often be followed by the escape of pus, and free drainage may be accomplished in this way. If the teeth are not dis- eased, the antrum should be perforated with a bone drill through the canine fossa, and when pus escapes the wound should be enlarged and the cavity freely irrigated. At the time the antrum is opened its cavity should be explored for the presence of necrosed bone or a foreign body. The symp- toms usually disappear rapidly after an opening has been made and free drainage secured. Periostitis Of the Jaw.—This affection may result from injury or may have its origin in an alveolar abscess, and is frequently followed by the for- mation of an abscess and necrosis or caries of the underlying bone. A peri- osteal abscess, if allowed to run its course, will discharge sooner or later, but in the mean time causes much suffering, and necrosis is apt to occur. The symptoms of this affection are local swelling, pain, febrile disturbance, and loss of function. Treatment.—This consists in one or more free in- cisions through the swollen tissues, which should be deep enough to expose the underlying bone freely, and should, if possible, be made through the mucous membrane of the mouth, to avoid external scars. If the incisions are made promptly, the pain and swelling rapidly disappear, and necrosis of the bone and persistent sinuses may be avoided. If necrosis has already occurred, antiseptic mouth-washes should be employed, and later the ne- crosed bone should be removed through the mouth if possible. Necrosis of the Jaws.—This is frequently observed after compound fractures of the jaws, as the result of periostitis or ostitis, syphilitic or tuber- culous ostitis, from exposure to the fumes of phosphorus or from mercury, and is occasionally seen as a sequel of gangrenous stomatitis, measles, scarlet fever, or typhoid fever ; as a result of the latter causes necrosis of a large portion of the jaws may occur. Necrosis following alveolar abscess and compound fractures is generally limited in extent, and in the former affec- tion a thin shell of bone only is involved. Phosphorus Necrosis.—This form of necrosis of the jaw results from the exposure of the bone to the fumes of phosphorus, which gain access to the bone by the exposed pulps of the teeth, and is usually observed in operatives in match-factories. (Fig. 680.) It has been found that persons with sound teeth can be exposed to the fumes of phosphorus without the