915 CHAPTER XXXIV. SURGERY OF THE ABDOMEN. INJURIES OF THE ABDOMEN. Pathology.—Contusions of the abdomen are often the result of so- called "bumper accidents," the body being caught between two cars in motion, or between the tail of a cart and a wall, and they are also very fre- quently produced by kicks from horses. The gi*eat danger in these injuries is the liability to serious damage to the abdominal viscera or the great vessels, and it is possible for rupture or laceration of these organs to be produced without ecchymosis or other trace of injury on the skin. Lacera- tion of the stomach and intestines is exceedingly dangerous, on account of the large number of bacteria in their contents and the certainty of peri- tonitis. The solid organs, such as the liver, kidney, and spleen, are lacer- ated by the pressure of the blow. The bladder is ruptured by the force of the blow when distended, because its contents cannot escape, but laceration of the stomach and intestine is probably produced by the crushing of the organs against the vertebral column. The walls of the stomach and bowel may be contused and slough later, when perforative peritonitis will not de- velop for some hours after the injury. Wounds of the abdominal wall, whether gunshot or incised, if they involve only the skin and muscle, are not of great importance, except that a hernia is likely to form in the scar if the muscles be widely divided unless they are properly united. Penetrating wounds of the abdomen are very serious, even if small. They may simply open the peritoneal cavity, render- ing it liable to infection, or they may divide the abdominal walls so freely that some of the contained organs prolapse in whole or in part, and in almost every case a fragment of the omentum protrudes. The chief danger in these wounds is the development of peritonitis. The viscera may be injured by the penetrating object. In gunshot injuries the ball may pass through both walls of the abdomen, perforating any of the viscera or the vessels in its course. The canal through the solid viscera will be straight, but the pas- sage of the missile through the intestine and stomach may produce many openings, because those organs may be folded upon themselves, and as many as twenty or thirty perforations of the intestine have been caused by a single bullet. The bullet may be arrested in any part of its course, and it has often been found inside of one of the hollow organs. It has been vomited with the contents of the stomach, having penetrated only one wall of that organ ; it has been passed with the feces, proving that it entered the bowel; and it has been found enclosed in the gall-bladder at autopsy years afterwards, the patient having made a complete recovery. Bullets may pass entirely