GAUZE DRESSINGS. 169 Horse-hair drains may be sterilized by thoroughly washing them with soap and water and allowing them to remain for some days in a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution in alcohol. Protective.—This is a material resembling oiled silk, which is em- ployed to prevent the wound from being irritated by the antiseptic sub- stances with which the gauze is impregnated, or to keep the wound in a moist condition. Various materials may be employed as protectives, the particular requirement being that they can be readily rendered aseptic and will not absorb any irritating materials from the dressings. The protective employed by Mr. Lister was prepared by coating oiled silk with copal var- nish ; when this had dried, a mixture of 1 part of dextrin to 2 parts of powdered starch and 16 parts of a 1 to 20 carbolic solution was brushed over its surface. Rubber Dam.—Eubber dam is a thin, pure rubber tissue, which is cleansed and sterilized with great ease. It is sterilized by washing it with soap and water and then placing it in a bichloride or carbolic solution for a short time. It may be used in the moist method of dressing to cover the gauze dressings, and is also attached to the drainage-tube in abdominal wounds to shut off the opening of the tube from the abdominal wound. Rubber Tissue.—Rubber tissue consists of a very thin sheet of india- rubber with glazed surface. It is employed for the same purposes as mack- intosh, is much less expensive, and may be used instead of protective for covering the wound. It is sterilized by soaking it in a carbolic or bichloride solution. GAUZE DRESSINGS. The most convenient and cheapest material for wound dressing is a material known to the trade as cheese-cloth or tobacco-cloth, and for sur- gical use should contain no sizing. From the fact that it has a very open mesh, it absorbs well either the materials with which it is prepared or the discharges from the wound, and is soft and pliable, so that it is a comfortable form of dressing to the patient. Bichloride or Corrosive Sublimate Gauze.—Bichloride or cor- rosive sublimate gauze is prepared by placing cheese-cloth in a washing- kettle and covering it with water to which is added two pounds of washing soda or a pint of lye ; the latter is added to remove any oily matter which the cheese-cloth contains, thus making it more absorbent. The gauze is boiled in this solution for an hour, and is then removed and washed in boiled water and passed through a sterilized clothes-wringer ; it is then im- mersed in a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution for twenty-four hours ; the excess of fluid is then squeezed out of it, and it may be packed in air-tight jars and preserved as a moist gauze, or may be dried in a warm oven and packed in sterilized jars and kept as a dry gauze. Iodoform Gauze.—Iodoform gauze may be prepared by sprinkling cheese-cloth which has been boiled in soda solution with powdered iodo- form which has also been sterilized, and rubbing it well into its meshes ; it should then be packed in closely covered glass jars. Iodoform gauze may also be prepared by rubbing an emulsion of iodoform, made by adding 3