EXCISION OF THE TONGUE. 763 Partial Excision of the Tongue.—In cases where the growth is small and is situated upon the tip or edge of the anterior half of the tongue, and the submaxillary glands are not enlarged, partial excision may be practised. After partial excision, if a considerable portion of the organ is removed, the tongue is apt to be bound down by adhesions, and swallowing and speech are more or less affected ; and although recurrence of the growth is no more likely to occur in the remaining portion of the tongue than in the glands or the floor of the mouth, the operation is not, on the whole, very satisfac- tory. Before undertaking any operation upon the tongue the mouth should be sterilized as completely as possible by the frequent use of antiseptic mouth-washes. In excising a portion of the tongue, the jaws should be separated with a gag after the patient has been anaesthetized, and two ligatures passed through the tongue near the tip, one on each side of the median line; by traction upon these the tongue is drawn out, when it is split down the centre with a knife and freed from its attachments to the floor of the mouth with scissors, and the diseased portion removed by cutting through the sound tissue well beyond the seat of the disease. The bleeding, which is free, is controlled by grasping the vessels with hemostatic forceps, and subsequently securing them by ligatures; deep sutures may also be employed to control the bleeding. The final section of the tongue may be made with an ecraseur, if the operator is not prepared to control the bleeding. Complete Excision of the Tongue.—The immediate danger in com- plete excision of the tongue arises from hemorrhage, the blood escaping from the mouth or passing into the air-passages. Preliminary ligation of the lingual arteries in the neck renders the operation a comparatively bloodless one, and the incisions through which the arteries have been tied may be utilized to expose and remove the submaxillary lymphatic glands and the submaxillary salivary glands, if it is considered desirable to remove the latter. To prevent the escape of blood into the air-passages a preliminary tracheotomy should be done, and the larynx should be packed with gauze, or the lower part of the pharynx may be tamponed with a sponge. The operations which are now most frequently resorted to for the removal of the tongue are Whitehead's and Kocher's. Whitehead's Operation.—The patient is anesthetized, and the jaws are widely separated with a gag ; a strong ligature is passed through the tip of the tongue, which is drawn forward, and the muscular attachments of the organ are divided rapidly with scissors. If the lingual arteries have not been primarily ligatured in the neck, they are tied as soon as they are cut, or before they are divided, if possible ; the tongue should then be removed as near the epiglottis as possible. A strong silk ligature should be passed through the glosso-epiglottidean fold and its ends brought out of the mouth ; this is to be kept in place for a few days, to enable the surgeon to draw the epiglottis and floor of the mouth forward in case of bleeding. The surface of the wound should then be dusted with iodoform, or an ethereal solution of iodoform, or compound tincture of benzoin, may be painted over it. Where it is possible, the mucous membrane should be sutured over the stump of the tongue.