848 TUBERCULOUS LARYNGITIS. The symptoms are huskiness of the voice, with a constant desire to clear the throat, and the expectoration of a thick, tenacious mucus ; laryngoscopic examination shows marked congestion and swelling of the mucous mem- brane. Treatment.—This consists in removing the cause of irritation as far as possible. When it is due to excessive use of the voice, rest should be secured; if due to the inhalation of irritating substances, this should be avoided, a change of occupation in many cases being necessary before a cure will result. The use of an alkaline spray, with the application of astringent sixbstances to the inflamed parts, is often followed by good results. Simple Membranous Laryngitis.—This was formerly considered a common affection of the larynx in childhood, and was described clinically as membranous croup. We now recognize that a membranous exudation may develop in the larynx and trachea as the result of inflammation due to burns, scalds, injuries, or foreign bodies, but that the cases of membranous exudation arising independently of these causes are of bacterial origin, being due to the presence of the Klebs-Loeffler bacillus, and are really cases of diphtheritic laryngitis. Symptoms.—The symptoms of membranous laryngitis following non- infective inflammation are fever, restlessness, and gradually increasing dysp- noea, with cyanosis of the face. Treatment.—This consists in the use of an alkaline steam spray, the application of leeches or iced compresses to the neck over the larynx, and the administration of calomel in small and frequently repeated doses, and, if obstruction of the breathing becomes urgent, intubation or tracheotomy should be resorted to. Tuberculous Laryngitis.—Primary tuberculosis of the larynx is. a rare affection, but its occurrence secondary to pulmonary tuberculosis is not uncommon. Thickening of the mucous membrane first occurs, and soon minute ulcers are developed, which run together and cause large patches of ulceration. No part of the larynx is exempt from the disease, but the pyriform swelling of the mucous membrane covering the arytenoid carti- lages, and the presence of ulceration upon the aryteno-epiglottic folds, false cords, and lower surface of the epiglottis, point very strongly to the tubercu- lous origin of the affection. When the ulceration is extensive the cartilages may be involved and necrosis may occur. Symptoms.—The symptoms of tuberculous laryngitis are those of chronic laryngitis, hoarseness of the voice with a frequent cough, pain and difficulty in swallowing ; dyspnoea is not often marked unless acute oedema occurs. Treatment.—The patient should be placed upon treatment applicable for the tuberculous condition. Curetting of the ulcerated surface and the insufflation of iodoform are often employed with benefit, and the local use of medicated sprays may add much to the patient's comfort; if cedema develops and is followed by obstruction to the breathing, tracheotomy or intubation may be required. Syphilitic Laryngitis.—This affection of the larynx may appear in the early or the late secondary stage or in the tertiary stage of the disease. In the early secondary stage there sometimes develops a laryngitis, correspond- ing to the sore throat noticed in this stage of the affection. In the tertiary stage, gummatous infiltration of the mucous and submucous tissues of the larynx occurs, which may break down, giving rise to typical gummatous