CONTROL OF ARTERIAL HEMORRHAGE. 327 Fig. 260. is completed, when the vessel may be permanently secured by the application of a ligature or by torsion. (Fig. 260.) Permanent Control of Arterial Hemorrhage.—This may be accom- plished by the use of pressure, cauterization, the ligature, torsion, or acu- pressure ; cold, heat, and styptics may also be employed for this purpose. Pressure.—Pressure may be employed to control arterial hemorrhage by means of conrpresses of anti- septic gauze applied to the surface of the wound, or by means of strips of gauze packed firmly into the cavity from which the bleeding arises. It may be used with the best results where the proximity of a bone fur- nishes a firm substance upon which the vessel may be compressed, as is the case in the vessels of the scalp. Pressure applied by strips of antiseptic or sterilized gauze will be found a most efficient means of controlling bleeding from cavities such as the nose, the vagina, or the rectum, and in cavities resulting from the removal of necrosed or carious bone. In bleeding from a bony canal, such as the inferior dental canal, a piece of catgut liga- ture may be forced into the canal, or a piece of Horsley's wax—which is composed of wax, 7 parts ; oil, 2 parts ; carbolic acid, 1 part—may be forced into the opening of the bone, and will control the bleeding in a satisfac- tory manner. A material known as gut wool has been in- troduced by Halsted, which is prepared from the same material from which catgut is made. This is cut in strips and is packed into the cavity or canal in the bone from which the bleeding arises. If gauze packing has been used to control bleeding, it should be allowed to remain for some days, until it becomes loose by the development of granu- lations in the wound, when it can be removed with ease, and usually subse- quent packing of the wound is unnecessary. Cauterization.—The use of the actual cautery, applied by means of the hot iron, or Paquelin's cautery, is an efficient means of controlling bleeding. The iron should be only of a dull red heat, as the result desired is not the destruction of the tissues, but the coagulating effect of heat. An aseptic surface results from the application of the cautery. The control of arterial bleeding by cauterization is often made use of in operations upon bone, or in those upon the mouth, pharynx, or tonsil. It is also employed to control hemorrhage in operations upon the uterus and the rectum, where the appli- cation of a ligature is difficult. Torsion.—This method of controlling arterial hemorrhage consists in grasping the end of the vessel with artery or haemostatic forceps, and draw- ing it slightly out of its sheath and twisting it (Fig. 261) ; or it may be ac- complished by the use of two pairs of forceps, the vessel being held at a little distance from its orifice by one pair of forceps and twisted with a second pair. Torsion of arteries, preventing the occurrence of hemorrhage, is quite commonly observed in accidental wounds, such as avulsion of a limb ; arte- ries as large as the femoral or the brachial may in these accidents have under- Haemostatic forceps.