REPAIR OF FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. 698 Fig. 641. Fracture of the skull produced by a bludgeon. Agnew.) (After When the skull is struck by a broader surface we find slightly different effects, fissures being caused instead of penetrating wounds, and these follow the laws already laid down. (Fig. 641.) Clean-cut fissures without depression are most commonly seen as the result of quick, sharp blows, such as might be given by a light club held iu the hand, the motion of the latter being stopped by the hand at the instant that the club comes in contact with the head, for in this way the skull can be cracked with no tendency to the production of depression. If the force continues to act after the bone has yielded, the fragments are driven inward and a depressed fracture is produced, and usually impaction takes place. Compound Fractures.—Fractures of the skull complicated with ex- ternal wounds are more serious than other compound fractures, because in addition to the danger from inflammation of the bone there is the possi- bility of deeper infection. When the infection is limited to the bone it results in limited suppuration, death of the fragments, separation of the periosteum, and consequent necrosis. Abscesses form, with phlegmonous inflammation of the scalp, the discharge from the wound increases and becomes serous, the edges become swollen and oedematous, burrowing takes place in various directions, and an acute ostitis of the skull bones follows. Not only is there danger of this infection spreading to the meninges, but there is great likelihood that a phlebitis may be set up on account of the intimate relations of the veins in the diploe to the sinuses, and the infec- tion may then extend to the brain. Meningitis and encephalitis are among the most common results of these infected compound fractures. Repair of Fractures.—The repair of fractures of the skull is effected like that of fractures of other bones, except that a very small amount of cal- lus is thrown out. The limited bone reproduction is chiefly effected by the diploe, the periosteum taking but little part in the formation of new bone, and the dura mater even less. In fact, it is doubtful if any bone is pro- duced by the dura. That the bones of the skull are capable of reproducing bone is shown by the manner in which fragments entirely isolated from the periosteum attach themselves to the surrounding bone, and by the fact that flaps of the pericranium turned up with only the outer layer of bone-cells will form new bone; but, as a rule, the production of bone is so slight that large openings remain permanently. The amount of bone which may be lost in consequence of compound fracture or of the subsequent necrosis is surprising, some individuals having borne the loss of one-half of the vertex, or one-fifth of the entire skull, without serious inconvenience. The gaps left by loss of bone may be filled by implanting a celluloid plate or by a