SINUS AND FISTULA. 40 gauze dressing wrung out of any very hot, mild, sterile fluid will produce the same effect as a poultice if kept covered with a very thick layer of cotton and some impervious material like oil-silk or rubber tissue. Hot and cold douches and massage are extremely useful; but it is necessary to make the parts absolutely sterile and free from inflammation before massage is attempted, for septicaemia might follow any manipulation in septic con- ditions. The pressure of a tin plate or piece of sheet lead cut exactly of the shape of the ulcer, but a little larger, with its edges bent up a little so as not to cut, and secured in place with rubber plaster under an aseptic dress- ing, has an excellent effect in reducing the thickened margins of an old ulcer. A double series of incisions, crossing like the "cross-hatching" lines of the engravers, hastens the absorption of the induration iu chronic ulcers, the effect being to relieve the tension on the parts due to the contraction of the cicatricial tissue, so that the vessels can distend and new vessels can enter. The new granulations which spring up in the incisions will soften the cicatricial tissue on each side, and also provide the way for new vessels to travel into the centre of the indurated area. The parts must be com- pletely sterilized, and the surface of the ulcer slightly curetted, in order to insure this; then the incisions are made. The cross-hatching incisions should be so placed that the distance between them will equal the thickness of the indurated layer (varying from one-quarter to one-half inch), and must be carried entirely through the cicatricial tissue at the base and be- yond the edges of the ulcer. When the ulcer is situated over a bone, the knife must be carried firmly down to its surface. Ulcers extending half- way up the leg and around its entire circumference have been successfully treated in this way. To promote cicatrization a very slight touch with nitrate of silver, just enough faintly to cloud the granulations next to the edge of the epidermis, will assist the epithelium to spread over them. Ichthyol favors the epithe- lial growth. Sometimes the latter remains deficient in spite of all our at- tempts, or the ulcer may be too large to give any hope of its being covered by natural growth, when some form of skin-grafting, as described elsewhere, becomes necessary. If extensive grafting is done, the patient should be con- fined to bed for some time after healing, until the new skin has become thoroughly well organized, or it will break down as soon as the upright position is resumed. Even after that time a bandage should be employed for months to avoid relapse. Sinus and Fistula.—A sinus or fistula is a narrow tract through the tissues, lined with granulations or epithelium. The term fistula is generally limited to openings connected with organs lined by mucous membranes, and these openings will be described in connection with the latter. A sinus is usually the result of an abscess, and may be formed by the passage-way which has served to discharge the abscess, in which case the latter will be found at its end, or more frequently it represents the shrunken remains of the abscess-cavity itself. The granulations which line the sinus rest upon a layer of cicatricial connective tissue, sometimes of considerable thickness. Treatment.—In order to obtain a cure it is generally necessary to re- move, or at least divide, this cicatricial tissue, by a cut running the entire