911 REMOVAL OF TUMORS OF THE BREAST. it is known that glands buried in the axillary fat may be considerably en- larged and yet may escape detection through the skin. It is also known that when infection takes place the size of the glands may not be per- ceptibly increased in the early stages, and many glands which appear per- fectly normal are found to be carcinomatous at the centre. Fig. 766. MM Carcinoma of breast, showing mode of extension : a, a lymph-node infected at its lower part; b, a lymphatic channel in the fat, containing cells from the cancer ; c, fascia over the pectoralis major (the cells infiltrate it but do not involve the muscle beneath); d, pectoralis major; e, veins;/, the edge of the car- cinoma. (F. C. Wood, M.D.) The Typical Operation.—The incision should circumscribe the skin over the tumor and the nipple and areola. If the skin is adherent, the incision should pass two or three inches away from the nearest adherent point; if it is not adherent, it will be sufficient to sacrifice that part of the skin which lies directly over the tumor. The incision should always lie at least half an inch away from the areola. The amount of skin to be removed being outlined, it will usually be found that an elliptical incision has been made, and it should then be extended, if necessary, in an oblique line from the ensiform cartilage upward into the axilla just below the pectoral fold. The skin is to be dissected up on each side of the part to be removed, keep- ing clear of the surface of the breast until the flaps have been raised beyond the edge of the gland in all directions. The pectoral fascia is then divided at the edge of the breast, and the deep fascia towards the abdomen is divided also. The gland and the tumor are to be turned up with the pectoral fascia, leaving the fibres of the muscle as clean as in an anatomical preparation. The fascia is to be pared off the posterior edge of the pectoral muscle at the same time, and stripped from the side of the chest up towards the axilla. The edge of the pectoralis minor forms a guide to the axillary vessels, and the fascia at the apex of the axilla is to be cautiously opened by being picked up with forceps and snipped with scissors. As soon as the axillary fat is exposed it is separated cleanly from the axillary vessels, leaving the mass of