DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. 558 the ends of one or both bones, excision, either partial or complete, should be practised. After excision the wound should be drained, and the part dressed and fixed upon a splint, and at the end of ten days or two weeks, when the wound has healed, passive motion should be carefully employed, to prevent bony ankylosis, except in the case of the knee. We have seen most satisfactory results follow excision of the shoulder-, elbow-, aud ankle-joints in such cases. SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. Dislocation of the lower jaw is a comparatively rare accident, consti- tuting about four per cent, of all dislocations. It is more commou in females than in males, and is an extremely rare injury in childhood. This disloca- tion may be bilateral, unilateral, or incomplete. Causes.—A predisposing cause of this dislocation may be a shallow glenoid cavity, the articular eminences being unusually low. Relaxation of the ligaments or weakness of the muscles of mastication, as is sometimes observed in feeble subjects, may also predispose to this injury. The causes which produce this injury are violence from falls received upon the chin, unusually wide opening of the mouth, biting upon hard substances, and dental operations. This displacement is produced when the lower jaw is strongly depressed, the condyles moving forward and carrying with them the interarticular car- tilages upon the articular eminences. When the condyles of the jaw are in this position, if the jaw is still further depressed, the condyles break through the front of the capsular ligament, and are pulled from their articular emi- nences by the action of the external pterygoid, masseter, and temporal muscles. (Fig. 477.) Bilateral Dislocation.—When both condyles of the inferior maxilla are removed from their articulating cavities the front teeth will be found separated for Position of the lower jaw in bilateral dislocation. Bilateral dislocation of the lower jaw. (Agnew.) and the line of the teeth in the lower jaw is in advance of that of the upper. The chin is unduly prominent (Fig. 478), the jaw is fixed, and pain is usually