188 FIXED DRESSINGS. extra-calcined variety, which sets in a few minutes ; if moist, or of inferior quality, it will not set rapidly or firmly and will fail to give sufficient fixa- tion to the dressing. The most convenient method of applying the plaster of Paris dressing is by means of bandages impregnated with plaster of Paris, which are prepared as follows : cheese-cloth, mosquito-netting, or crinoline—the latter is by far the best fabric—is cut or torn into strips from two and a half to four or five inches in width and five .yards in length ; these are laid upon a table, and plaster of Paris is dusted over them and rubbed into the meshes of the fabric; the material when imj)regnated with the plaster is loosely rolled into a cyl- inder, or the bandages may be prepared by a machine made for this purpose, which distributes the plaster through the meshes of the fabric. Plaster of Paris bandages should be freshly prepared, or if they are to be kept for any time they should be placed in air-tight jars or cans. Bandages which have been exposed to the air or have been kept for a long time are not apt to set well when applied ; however, if such bandages are placed in a hot oven and baked for half an hour, they will be found to set as satisfactorily as those freshly made. Application of the Plaster of Paris Bandage.—Before applying this dressing the part to be encased should be covered by a flannel roller, and bony prominences should be protected by pads of cotton. In apply- ing this dressing to the leg, for instance, a flannel bandage or closely fitting stocking may be used to cover the part. The bandage is prepared for application by soaking it in warm water for a few moments, and as soon as bubbles of air cease to escape it is an indication that it is thoroughly Fig. 124. Plaster of Paris bandage of the leg. soaked, and is ready for use. Upon removing the bandage from the water, the excess of water should be squeezed out by the hands; the bandage should then be evenly applied to the limb without reverses, and with just enough firmness to make it fit the part neatly. Only so many bandages should be applied as will make a firm dressing—three rollers of the above dimensions being usually ample for a dressing for the leg—and when the last roller has been applied some dry plaster should be mixed with water