705 CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. the opposite side of the skull will indicate the spot nearest to the inner end of the instrument (Bryant). The Eontgen rays will also reveal the presence of bullets and of certain foreign bodies within the skull. THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. Injuries of the Brain and Membranes.—Concussion and Com- pression.—The two conditions most frequently met with and most important in cases of injuries of the brain are concussion and compression. By con- cussion is meant a set of symptoms which are due to the severe physical commotion of the brain-tissues at the time of injury, although the shock may not be severe enough to produce any anatomical lesions. By compres- sion, on the other hand, is meant a set of symptoms which are due to the pressure on the brain exerted by depressed bone or various other causes. The possibility of true concussion has been strongly denied, but many good authorities still believe in its existence, although it is certainly rare. Concussion.—According to Duret and Miles, concussion is the result of the mechanical driving of the cerebro-spinal fluid into the fourth ven- tricle from the larger cranial cavities by the force of the blow upon the elastic skull, and of the pressure of the fluid in that situation on the im- portant centres of respiration and circulation. Polis, who succeeded in producing fatal concussion in animals by a single blow without any visible lesions, accepts Duret's conclusions in part. But he considers the effect of such a blow to be double, as it acts upon the blood-vessels as well as upon the nerve-cells, causing cerebral anaemia at the same time that the shock suspends or weakens the functional activity of the cells. This theory plau- sibly explains the varying effects produced in different individuals by blows of equal force, for the effect may be dependent upon the state of the cerebral circulation in the individual. The centre of respiration suffers most in concussion, and that function is suspended before the heart ceases to beat: therefore Polis suggests the employment of artificial respiration as the best possible treatment for concussion with marked respiratory failure. It is impossible to distinguish clinically between instances of pure concus- sion and those cases in which similar symptoms are due to very slight lesions of the brain, such as contusions, lacerations, or small capillary hemorrhages, and all these conditions must therefore be studied together. There can be no question that these slight injuries to the brain can be produced by light blows upon the skull, for thin microscopic cover-glasses inserted in the brain of a cadaver can be broken by blows upon the skull which do not break the latter. It has been found that the glass is broken only when it lies near the inner surface of the cranium, and that the force appears to operate most strongly in the line of application of the blow, more damage being produced to the pieces of glass in that line than elsewhere (Deucher, Kocher). These experiments show an analogy with the laws governing fractures of the skull, and prove that the principal injury to the brain is near the skull in cases of concussion, a conclusion which is in harmony with the clinical fact that un- consciousness is the chief symptom in concussion, indicating a disturbance of the functions of the cortex as the main cause of that condition. 45