1140 TUMORS OF THE SCROTUM. herent. It may occupy both situations at once. The treatment of these injuries consists in the application of ice and compression in the early stages, followed by massage. Any abrasions present must be cleansed and dressed iu the most careful and aseptic manner, lest cellulitis occur, with breaking down of the blood-clot. Should suppuration begin, a free incision must be made and the broken-down blood-clot turned out. Lacerated and incised wounds also need careful treatment for similar reasons. Inflammations.—The tissues of the scrotum are unusually liable to infection and slough very readily, but are readily restored, the entire skin of the scrotum being reproduced in three or four months by new growth and by cicatricial contraction, which draws the skin of the neighboring parts over the testicles. The scrotum is liable to the ordinary diseases of the skin, and they are unusually difficult to treat because of the natural moisture and constant friction. Tumors.—Tumors appear on the skin here as elsewhere, and epithe- lioma is very common in persons of uncleanly habits, often developing upon a chronic eczema or psoriasis which has been neglected. It has been clearly shown that chimney-sweeps' cancer, which is simply an epithelioma of the scrotum, is entirely dependent upon uncleanly habits, for the dis- ease was extremely common among the chimney-sweeps of London while the same class of men in Belgium were free from it. The irritation of the coal-tar products in the soot, aided by the lack of cleanliness, caused the malignant disease, and similar epitheliomata have been observed else- where on the body in the workmen in paraffin factories. Fatty tumors develop in the scrotum, especially in connection with the cord, and may attain a very large size and entirely surround the testicle. Elephantiasis of the scrotum is common in connection with elephantiasis of the penis and lower extremities, and is due to the same causes. In this country we rarely see the elephantiasis due to the filaria parasite, but similar changes are pro- duced by chronic inflammatory fibrous thickening of the tissues, when oedema from any cause persists for a long time. THE TESTICLE. Congenital Anomalies.—The congenital abnormalities of the testicles consist almost entirely in variations from their normal position, although in rare cases complete absence of at least one of the glands has been observed. The testicle is sometimes found reversed in its position in the scrotum, the epididymis being turned forward and the tunica vaginalis behind it, so that the gland would be in danger of injury when tapping a hydrocele. Normal Descent of the Testicle.—In early foetal life the testicle occupies a position within the abdomen near the posterior crest of the ilium, in close relation to the kidney, the latter ascending as development proceeds, and the testicle descending towards the inguinal ring. A fibrous band containing some muscular fibres, known as the gubernaculum, passes from the lower end of the testicle to the inguinal ring, and is divided into three branches, one of which goes to the bottom of the scrotum, one to the perineum, and one to the femoral region, the first being usually the most powerful. The exact mechanics of the descent of the testicle are not under-