475 FRACTURE OF THE SACRUM. dorsal surface of the finger, and held in position by the turns of a narrow bandage or by strips of adhesive plaster. FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. Fractures of the pelvis are not very common injuries. They usually result from falls, from the application of direct force, or from the pelvis being caught between heavy bodies and crushed. The gravity of these injuries depends largely upon whether the pelvic girdle is broken, and upon the presence of injury of the important pelvic viscera. The most serious class of injuries of the pelvis are those which break the pelvic girdle, such as fractures involving the pubis, the sacrum, or the ischium. The less serious are those which involve the crest or spine of the ilium, the margin of the acetabulum, or the tuber ischii, and transverse fractures involving the lower portion of the sacrum. Shock is usually a prominent symptom in fracture of the pelvis. Complications in Fracture of the Pelvis.—The most serious com- plications resulting from fracture of the pelvis are injury of the pelvic viscera, such as rupture of the bladder or of the membranous portion of the urethra from displaced fragments of the pubic arch. Laceration of the rec- tum may also result from fractures of the sacrum or the ischium. In frac- tures of the bones of the pelvis the condition of the pelvic viscera should be carefully investigated. The vagina and rectum should be examined with the finger: if a laceration of either of these organs is present it may be located, and blood will usually be found in their cavities, and at the same time the position of the fragments may be recognized. The treatment of these complications is considered under injuries of the special organs. Fracture of the Sacrum.—Fracture of this bone is an uncommon injury unless associated with fracture of other bones of the pelvis. The lower portion is that most liable to fracture, as it is the most exposed por- tion of the bone. Causes.—Fracture of the sacrum usually results from concentrated force applied directly to the part, as in falls from a distance where the patient alights upon the sacrum, or where a heavy body comes in contact with this bone. The line of fracture is usually transverse. The displacement con- sists in an anterior projection of the lower fragment. Symptoms.—The symptoms in fracture of the sacrum are pain, which is much increased by movements calculated to disturb the fragments, by straining efforts at defecation or urination, or by coughing or sneezing ; crepitus may be obtained by manipulation of the fragments; and by the introduction of the finger into the rectum it is often possible to feel the anterior projection of the fragment. Complications.—The most serious complication in fractures of the sacrum is laceration of the rectum. A force which is sufficient to fracture the sacrum often produces extensive damage to the pelvic organs, aside from the direct contact of the organs with the fractured bone. Treatment.—The patient should be placed in bed, the thighs being flexed and supported upon a pillow ; the rectum should be examined, to ascertain whether it has sustained any injury, and the urine drawn, to ascer-