1G0 ANTISEPTIC OPERATION. by buried sutures of catgut or silk, and the edges of tlie superficial wound next approximated by sutures of catgut, silk, or silkworm-gut. If the sur- geon decides to use drainage, a few strands of catgut, a strip of sterilized gauze, a tent of rubber tissue, or a rubber drainage-tube is introduced into the deepest portion of the wound and is brought out at its most dependent part. The wound is then dressed with a number of loose masses of sterilized gauze placed so as to cover the wound and extend beyond it in all direc- tions, and these are covered by a number of layers of sterilized gauze. Over the gauze dressing are placed a few layers of sterilized cotton, ex- tending on all sides well beyond the gauze, and the dressings are held in place by a sterilized gauze bandage. The dressings should be voluminous ; it is always a mistake to apply scanty dressings. In redressing the wound the same care should be exercised as regards asepsis as was observed at the primary dressing. Details of an Antiseptic Operation.—If the surgeon is about to operate upon a patient in whom a wound exists which is already suppu- rating, as, for instance, the removal of suppurating glands from the groin, and desires to employ the antiseptic method, the procedure will be as fol- lows. The region of the wound being sterilized, and the surgeon, assistants, and nurses having prepared themselves as before described, the wound is exposed, and if suppurating sinuses exist these are washed out with per- oxide of hydrogen, and this application should be followed by a douche of a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution. The surgeon next enlarges the wound and removes the glands as completely as possible, and may during the oper- ation have the wound douched at intervals with bichloride solution, the curette and scissors being used freely to remove diseased tissues. Hemor- rhage is controlled by the use of haemostatic forceps, which are removed later, and bleeding vessels are tied with catgut. The wound is finally irrigated with a warm bichloride solution, is dried with sponges or gauze pledgets, and may be dusted freely with powdered iodoform; a rubber drain- age-tube or strips of iodoform gauze are next introduced to the bottom of the wound, and the edges are brought together by sutures; pads of iodoform gauze or bichloride gauze are placed over the wound, and over these a num- ber of layers of bichloride cotton, and the dressings are held in position by a gauze bandage. In redressing such a wound the same antiseptic details should be employed. Aseptic or Antiseptic Treatment of Infected Wounds.—It often happens that the surgeon is called upon to treat a wound which is septic when it comes under his care, as evidenced by the inflamed state of the wound, inflammation of the lymphatic vessels and skin, foul discharges and sloughing of the tissues, and the coexistent constitutional symptoms of sepsis. In such a case it would at first sight appear that the surgeon or his assistants could not introduce any material of infection worse than that which already existed in the wound, but he should bear in mind the fact that it is possible to introduce a new form of infection in addition to that already existing. With this possibility in view he should observe the same precau tions as regards the sterilization of his hands, the skin of the patient, the instru- ments, and dressings as he would employ in treating a perfectly fresh wound.