TREATMENT OF CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS. 1002 7. The anus is present, but does not communicate with the rec- tum, which terminates in a blind pouch, while the anus terminates in the vagina. 8. Persistence of the neurenteric canal or post-anal gut. This con- dition is rarely met with. The anus may be absent and the rectum may open through an aperture in the sacrum, or failure of obliteration of the post-anal gut may result in a diverticulum of the rectum. Symptoms.—The symptoms presented in malformations of the rectum and anus vary with the variety of malformation. When the rectum terminates in a blind pouch the feces cannot escape, and symptoms of obstruction soon develop, such as vomiting and swelling of the abdomen. In cases in which the rectum terminates in the vagina, feces usually escape freely, and no marked symptoms are present. When, however, the rectum terminates in the bladder or the urethra, or at the prepuce, the escape of feces is usually not sufficiently free, and obstructive symptoms soon develop. In cases in which the anus is absent the condition is usually recognized early, but when the anus is present it is likely to be overlooked until the fact that no feces have been passed has been noticed. Absence of a fecal discharge within a reasonable time after birth should lead to an examination of the rectum, which will reveal the cause. Care should be taken not to give purgatives in these cases before making an examination. Treatment.—Where the rectum ends in a blind pouch, symptoms of obstruction are soon developed, which if not relieved by immediate opera- tion rapidly prove fatal. In'such cases a perineal opening should be made at the usual site of the anus, and if the rectal pouch is low down it should be opened and the edges of the rectum brought down and sutured to the skin. If, however, the rectal pouch is high up in the pelvis, it may be dif- ficult to reach it, but an attempt should be made to do so ; excision of the coccyx gives the operator more room and thus facilitates the exposure of the gut. When the rectal pouch is exposed and opened high up, it is not possible to suture the gut to the edges of the wound, and in these cases a good-sized rubber tube should be secured in the wound for a few days. When the pelvis is poorly developed and narrow, the rectum usually ends high up, and it is not likely that it can be reached from a perineal wound. Where it is found impossible to reach the gut from the perineal wound, this should be closed, and the descending colon should be opened in the left iliac region. Where the anus is present and is separated from the rectal pouch by a membranous or fibrous septum, this should be carefully opened by a crucial incision, and should subsequently be dilated by a bougie or the finger. In cases in which the gut opens into the vagina, if the fecal dis- charge is free no operation need be undertaken for some time ; it is better in these cases to wait until the child is several years of age, when an incision should be made in the region of the anus, the gut exposed and dissected loose from the vagina, and the vaginal opening transplanted and sutured to the anal wound, the vaginal wound being closed with sutures. Where the rectum ends in the bladder or the urethra, an artificial anus should be established in the left iliac region by iliac colostomy, and if the