1010 PERIPROCTITIS. unnatural intercourse. Symptoms.—The prominent symptoms are pain, tenesmus, and a profuse muco-purulent or purulent discharge. A micro- scopic examination of the discharge will generally reveal the presence of gonococci. Treatment.—This consists first in irrigation of the rectum with warm water, and next in the introduction of astringent solutions, as a solution of sulphate of zinc, gr. v, water, j§i, or one of nitrate of silver, gr. i, water, %i. After either of these solutions has remained for a few minutes, it should be allowed to escape and the rectum irrigated with warm water. The injections should be increased in strength if they do not cause pain, and administered until the discharge ceases and the other symptoms of the disease disappear. Periproctitis.—This is an inflammation of the tissues surrounding the rectum, and is due to septic infection. It may follow accidental wounds of the rectum or of the surrounding tissues, or may result from surgical opera- tions upon the anus or the rectum, and may exist as a localized or a diffused septic process. Localized Periproctitis, or Rectal Abscess.—Inflam- mation of the perirectal tissues may give rise to abscess, which may involve the superficial tissues in the region of the anus, the walls of the rectum, or the ischio-rectal fossa. Treatment.—This consists in an incision into the inflamed tissues to evacuate the pus, and the introduction of a gauze drain to secure free drainage. Diffused Periproctitis.—This is a septic inflammation of the perirectal connective tissue which follows traumatisms and operation upon the rectum, and is characterized by high temperature, rigors, sweating, vomiting, pelvic pain, and abdominal distention. The infective process involves the connec- tive tissue of the ischio-rectal fossa, and extends by the lymph-paths to the pelvis, and if not arrested by treatment is apt to terminate in septic peri- tonitis and death. The difficulty of obtaining and maintaining asepsis in wounds of this region is fully recognized, and the surgeon, therefore, should be very careful as regards asepsis in all wounds or operations upon the rec- tum. Free drainage is one of the most important means that can be em- ployed in these cases to prevent septic infection. Treatment.—In cases of diffused periproctitis, as soon as the condition is recognized free incision should be made to expose the infected tissues and secure free drainage, the parts thoroughly irrigated with a bichloride solution, and rubber or gauze drains introduced. The patient should be given stimulants, such as strych- nine, alcohol, and digitalis, and if peritonitis has not developed recovery may take place. Gangrenous Periproctitis.—This affection, which consists in an in- tense septic infection of the perirectal cellular tissues, is occasionally seen following wounds of the rectum, although in the cases reported by Jordan no history of an injury could be discovered, but it occurred in persons who were heavy eaters and drinkers. This disease presents many symptoms in common with traumatic spreading gangrene, and probably arises from the same microbic infection. Symptoms.—The skin in the region of the anus and buttocks becomes brawny and hard, and upon deep pressure crepitation can be felt, the temperature is elevated, the pulse is rapid, and death usually results from extension of the gangrenous process into the pelvis or from ex-