636 EXCISION OF THE SHOULDER. sary : a stout scalpel with a heavy blade, a probe-pointed knife, an excision saw with a reversible blade, a narrow-bladed saw or a chain saw, strong lion- jawed forceps (Fig. 557), retractors, elevators, heavy bone-cutting pliers, knife-bladed forceps, and a periosteotoine. EXCISION OF SPECIAL JOINTS. Excision of the Shoulder-Joint.—This operation generally con- sists in excision of the head of the humerus, but occasionally both this portion of the bone and the articular surface of the scapula are removed. It is required in cases of compound comminuted fractures of the head of the humerus and of severe gunshot injuries of this joint, for the relief of deformity following unreduced dislocations or badly united fractures of the neck of the humerus, and occasionally in cases of arthritis. In many cases of compound fracture or gunshot injury of the head of the humerus a formal excision is not required ; if great care is taken to keep the wound aseptic, the simple removal of detached fragments of bone, with careful drainage of the wound, will be followed by results as good as those from a formal operation. Operation.—In excising the shoulder-joint the arm should be adducted and rotated inward, and a straight incision, three inches in length, should be made, extending from the beak of the coracoid process down the arm in the line of the bicipital groove (Fig. 558) ; if more room is required, this incision should be supplemented by a short transverse one from the upper edge of the first incision to the acromion process. As the incision is deepened the fibres of the deltoid muscle are divided in this line, and the capsule of the joint is exposed and divided along the outer edge of the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle. This tendon should be held to one side and the capsule of the joint freely opened ; the periosteum over the upper portion of the neck of the humerus should then be divided and separated as far as possible from the bone. The muscles inserted into the tuberosities of the humerus are next divided with a probe-pointed knife and freed with an elevator. The head of the bone may then be forced out of its articular cavity by forcibly adducting and pressing the arm upward, and can be removed by sawing through its surgical neck with a narrow-bladed saw. (Fig. 559.) In some cases, however, it is difficult to disarticulate the head of the bone, and under such circumstances the neck of the bone may be divided, while the head remains in situ, by bone forceps, or by sawing across its surgical neck with a narrow metacarpal saw, or by passing a chain saw under the bone and sawing it from within outward. After the neck of the bone has been divided, the head is grasped with bone forceps and is twisted loose from its attachments in the articular cavity. After the removal of the head of the bone, the sawn surface of the humerus should be rounded off with gouge forceps, so that no sharp edges shall be present; the articular surface of the scapula should next be carefully examined, and if this be found diseased, the diseased portion should be removed with a gouge or with gouge forceps. The wound should next be thoroughly irri- gated, bleeding being arrested by torsion or by the application of ligatures, and the bone replaced ; a drainage-tube is then introduced to the depth of