ACNE. 307 who are annoyed by eczema of the hands caused by vigorous disinfection to apply some oily material after washing, such as equal parts of olive oil, glycerin, lanolin, and vaseline, with resorcin, gr. x, added to each ounce of the mixture. Diseases of the Sebaceous Glands.—A functional disturbance with alteration of their secretion causes the production of the so-called black- heads or comedones, which are nothing more than inspissated secretion collected in the ducts and mixed with dirt. If neglected, they become in- fected, and suppuration ensues. Acne is an eruption of pustules from suppurative inflammation of the sebaceous glands. The treatment of acne must be both local and general. The comedones should be squeezed out with a watch-key or similar instru- ment. Pustules must be opened with a sharp-pointed knife. The skin should be thoroughly washed with hot water and soap two or three times a day, followed by vigorous rubbing with a flannel cloth, and anointing with boric acid ointment well rubbed in, these measures stimulating the glands to activity and producing a healthy secretion. The general health requires attention ; out-door exercise is to be enforced, tonics and laxatives ordered, and any derangements of the sexual organs, such as are so often seen asso- ciated with this affection, which is very common about puberty, are to be corrected. When the secretion of the sebaceous glands collects in minute ducts which are entirely closed by epidermis, the condition known as milium is produced, consisting of minute, rounded, white elevations beneath the superficial epidermis. A discharge of thickened sebaceous matter from the glands with a tendency to form scales on the surface is known as sebor- rhcea, a condition frequent in the scalp, producing dandruff, and resulting in early falling of the hair, and also seen in limited patches on the face, especially about the nose and the eyes. In the latter situation the affection is of great importance, as it is common in persons past middle life, and is apt to result in the development of epithelioma of the skin. This condition can be distinguished from localized patches of eczema by the ease with which the crust is detached from the skin, the peculiar soft cheesy character of the crust, and the less irritated appearance of the underlying skin. When treatment is undertaken early, good results cau be obtained, the best means being washing with hot water and mild soap, and inunctions of boric acid or resorcin ointments (ten per cent.), but without hard rubbing, for fear of increasing the inflammatory condition of the glands and precipitating the development of epithelioma. Lupus vulgaris is a disease of the skin and mucous membranes caused by the bacillus tuberculosis, and marked by the formation of rather soft, dark red nodules, with a tendency to ulceration. It appears sometimes in a single patch, which may spread evenly or in a serpiginous form, or in scattered patches, which later coalesce. Occasionally hypertrophic forms are found, with the formation of warty growths of considerable size. Lupus is most common on the face and extremities, although it may occur else- where. Its course is exceedingly slow and obstinate, spontaneous healing being a rarity, although cicatrization may take place at one edge while the disease is advancing at another. The ulceration may be so extensive as to