47 FACIAL ERYSIPELAS. haps the severer form of the septic infection. The urine is loaded with albumin, and the bacteria are found in it. The patient may fall into a typhoid delirium, muttering, picking the bedclothes, with involuntary movements of the bowels and the bladder, and die comatose. But even patients who are so ill as this may recover. In milder cases the tempera- ture does not rise above 100° or 101° F. (38° or 39° C), there is no delirium, and the inflammation is readily controlled by treatment. The disease usu- ally runs its course in ten days or a fortnight, but often lasts five or six weeks if the patient's strength holds out. Aside from the cellulitis and nephritis, there are few complications of erysipelas, for the formation of abscesses elsewhere, and the occurrence of lymphadenitis and phlebitis, must be charged to the cellulitis, as well as the occasional septic bronchitis and pneumonia or meningitis. In simple erysipelas the lymph-glands are not generally infected, although they become so if cellulitis is also present; yet it has been claimed by some that their enlargement is a pathognomonic sign. The development of internal complications, known as metastatic in- flammations, may be accompanied by a subsidence of the external symptoms. In cases of erysipelas of the scalp, a meningitis or septic phlebitis of the sinuses of the brain may result from direct extension of the inflammation inward along the veins of the diploe which communicate with the internal vessels. The local sequeke of erysipelas are a chronic oedema due to block- ing of the lymphatic vessels, which may result in elephantiasis ; and an im- paired vitality of the skin, with a tendency to eczema or ulceration. The cellulitis may result in extensive cicatricial contraction, and the other com- plications may leave the usual results. Facial Erysipelas.—The so-called facial erysipelas differs from that just described only in severity. While it has long been acknowledged that erysipelas elsewhere must in every case arise from the inoculation of an open wound, in the case of the facial form this has been contested up to very recent times. The truth of the theory has now been admitted even in this case, although it is seldom that such a point of entrance can be demon- strated. This is not strange when the numerous concealed cavities (nose, throat, ear, etc.) in lymphatic connection with the face are taken into con- sideration, for a breach of surface might easily exist in them without discov- ery. Facial erysipelas is further distinguished by the benign character of its course and symptoms in most cases and by the frequency with which some individuals are subject to its attacks. The color of the affected skin remains a rosy pink, the oederna is slight, often barely sufficient to close the eyes when their lids are affected, the temperature rarely rises over 100° F. (38° C), and the progress of the disease is brief and apparently self-limited, running its course in a week or ten days, and often confined to a very small area. Severer attacks, however, are not infrequent, and some cases are as severe locally and constitutionally as erysipelas in other situations, and espe- cially dangerous, becaxtse of the proximity to the brain, and the greater liability of sinus-phlebitis or meningitis. Even the mild forms of the disease are occasionally very obstinate, continuing for weeks and even months, and making a slow progress over the entire head and well down to the chest over the neck. Some persons may have several attacks in a year, apparently