PYONEPHROSIS. 1117 is not complete, and some purulent urine is discharged. Sometimes the obstruction is intermittent, and if the other kidney be healthy there will be alternating periods of clear and cloudy urine, according as the secretion of the diseased organ is shut off or discharged into the bladder. The prognosis of abscess of the kidney is very bad, as is also that of suppurative pyelitis originating from an abscess of the kidney or from an ascending infection. Treatment.—In a simple pyelitis of a catarrhal or mildly suppurative type it will probably be sufficient to remove the cause, such as a calculus in the pelvis or a suppurative condition of the bladder. Prophylaxis is most important, and is to be effected by observing strict asepsis in all operative measures upon the bladder, including the ordinary use of the catheter, and by instituting irrigation of that organ at the first indication of renal diffi- culty, such as a rise of temperature or local tenderness. Now that catheter- ization of the ureters in the female is easily performed by Kelly's method, it will probably be possible to treat cases of mild pyelitis by introducing the catheter into the pelvis of the kidney and irrigating that cavity. This has already been done successfully through a vesico vaginal fistula. In the male the same may possibly be accomplished in the future with the aid of the cystoscope. When suppuration beginning as a pyelitis has extended to the kidney-tissue, or a pyonephrosis has formed, the suppurating cavity may be drained by au external incision or nephrotomy, which should be made through the substance of the kidney, and not through the pelvis, in order to give it the best opportunity to contract later. These cases, however, often result in a permanent fistula, which is a source of annoyance and dan- ger to the patient, and therefore nephrectomy is preferable when the other kidney is sound. Drainage is particularly suitable for those cases in which the kidney-substance is not disorganized, but merely distended around the pelvis containing the pus. Even when the kidney is completely disor- ganized it should not be removed if the patient is in bad condition or if the pyonephrosis is very large and adherent to the surrounding parts so that the operation will present unusual difficulty. Nephrotomy, followed by nephrectomy when the patient has recovered his strength, is the safer procedure in such cases. Abscesses which have formed in the kidney-tissue may be treated by nephrotomy and drainage, if it is possible to make a diag- nosis before the pelvis is involved ; after that time they must be treated on the same principles as pyonephrosis of ordinary origin. In metastatic suppuration of the kidney it is seldom possible to relieve the patient by surgical means, but we have obtained a cure in one case by nephrotomy and drainage. The large number of abscesses in the kidney in these cases will often make thorough drainage impracticable, and if the other kidney could be proved to be sound nephrectomy would be preferable, but such 'proof will seldom be forthcoming. Perinephritis.—Suppurative perinephritis is a suppurative inflamma- tion of the cellular tissue about the kidney and of its fatty capsule. It may originate from inflammation of the organ extending outward, from the rupture of a renal abscess, or from secondary infection of a blood-clot surrounding the kidney which has been produced by some injury of the organ. In the traumatic cases the infection is usually derived from the