TUBERCULOUS LYMPHATIC INFECTION. 58 Lymphatic Infection—The Tubercle.—Very different is the lesion when the hacilhis has penetrated the lymphatics and reached the nearest lymph-nodes. The infected node becomes swollen and hyperemia The cells multiply and produce rounded cells, from two to six times the size of the leucocytes, with indistinct outlines, a pale, granular protoplasm, and a rather small, ovoid, vesicular nucleus, causing them to resemble epithelial cells, and hence they are named epithelioid. The epithelioid cells are found under other circumstances, but are so common in tubercle as to be fairly characteristic. In some cases of true tubercle, however, they are absent. Within the circle of epithelioid cells is often found one or several giant-cells. Outside of them are seen very numerous small round cells, like the lymphocytes commonly found in lymphatic glands, form- ing the outer boundary of the tubercle, as the entire mass is called, and infiltrating the neighboring tissues. (Fig. 26.) These cells are supposed to come from emigration of white blood-corpuscles, as in any ordinary in- Fig. 26. < .<7 t Section of synovial fold from a tuberculous knee-joint: a, free surface with a layer of fibrin and leucocytes ; 6, small tubercle with leucocytes and epithelioid cells; c, large tubercle ; d, giant-cells. (F. C. Wood, M.D.) flammation. In some instances, however, no epithelioid cells or giant-cells are formed, and the tubercle is simply made up of the round cells, and is known as a " small round-cell tubercle." The epithelioid cells multiply, two or more nuclei being frequently seen in them, and it is supposed that from them by division of nuclei without division of cell-body are formed the giant-cells. It is also possible that the giant-cells may be formed by fusion of several cells in one, or even by the multiplication and fusion of the endo- thelial cells of a small blood- or lymph-vessel, the characteristic appearance being produced by the cross-section of such an occluded vessel. The giant- cells are irregular in shape, generally more or less elliptical in section, with star-like projections, the centre formed of granular protoplasm, which ap- pears to be already degenerated, surrounded by numerous nuclei near the border arranged somewhat radially. Between the cells is a more or less evident reticulum, supposed to be the remains of the fibres of connective