TUBERCULOSIS OF THE TESTICLE. 1144 about. Metastatic abscesses develop in the testicle in cases of pyaemia, and have the usual chronic character of abscesses of this nature, the gland being moderately enlarged and tender, but without great pain, and giving no distinct evidence of pus until quite late. The treatment should consist in incision as soon as fluctuation can be demonstrated. Tuberculosis of the testicle is generally due to blood infection, being the primary lesion in tuberculosis of the male genitals, but in some cases it is secondary to tuberculosis of the prostate or other parts, the infection reaching the testicle by the vas deferens. The pathological changes consist in the appearance of tubercles, which become cheesy and calcareous or break down into cold abscesses. They almost invariably appear first in the epi- didymis. Rarely a miliary form is observed. Symptoms.—The disease may be acute or chronic in its beginning and course, but it is usually sub- acute. The patient is seized with a slight pain in the testicle and a slight swelling appears in the epididymis, with which some hydrocele may be asso- ciated. An abscess of small size slowly forms without much pain and then discharges, leaving a sinus. The symptoms disappear, but an indurated nodule and the sinus persist. In some cases the attack may begin as acutely as a gonorrhoeal epididymitis, while in others a small painless induration is observed in the epididymis, which causes no symptoms, but steadily increases in size, and at the end of some months may produce a small abscess. A nodular or uniform infiltration of the spermatic cord is frequently observed. If the disease is limited to the testicle the patient will suffer very little iu general health, but, as a rule, it is found associated with similar disease of the prostate and seminal vesicles. The disease attacks young adults from twenty to thirty years of age, and not infrequently follows an acute attack of gonorrhoea, so that in the acute cases its diagnosis from gonorrhoeal epididymitis may be very difficult. In the early stages the small, hard nodules resemble those left by a gonorrhoeal epididymitis, but the latter are usually in the globus minor, while the former are apt to occupy the globus major. The history of the presence of tuberculous nodules in the prostate will assist in the diagnosis. The tendency to break down into abscesses will distinguish the rapidly growing forms from malig- nant tumors. The diagnosis of tuberculous disease depends upon the com- bination of induration with spots of softening, and the presence of sinuses or sluggish abscesses, while rectal examination should never be omitted, for evidences of prostatic or seminal vesical disease may be obtained in the majority of cases. Prognosis.—The course of the disease is usually very slow, even in those cases which begin acutely, and there can be no question that spontaneous recovery takes place in many instances. Treatment.—Recovery sometimes follows proper attention to diet, and a life in the open air in a good climate, with freedom from care and respon- sibility. The administration of tonics, cod-liver oil, and creosote may also be tried. If the disease in the testicle is very troublesome, with profuse discharge, many sinuses, or considerable pain, the organ should be removed. It may also be removed with the hope of a radical cure when there is no advanced disease elsewhere in the genital organs, but some small deposit is very likely to be felt in the prostate or the seminal vesicles. Partial opera-