TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. 27 in their contest with the irritating material. A thick wet dressing made with a hot solution and well protected against evaporation so that it will retain its heat will produce the same effect, acting like a poultice, although less powerfully. When there are discharging wounds or raw surfaces, one of the methods just described should be employed, for poultices are then inadmissible, and the weak antiseptic solutions will prevent additional in- fection of the discharge. Astringent solutions applied either cold or hot have an excellent effect- upon inflammatory processes, and the most generally useful of these is the one per cent, solution of acetate of aluminum. The best formula for this is Von Burow's : R Alumiuis, 5yj (24 gi-ammes) ; plumbi acetatis, 3ixss (38 grammes) ; aquee, Oij (1000 grammes). M. S.—Filter after standing twenty-four hours. This solution is strongly astringent, somewhat antiseptic (25 parts to 1000 preventing development of bacteria), not poisonous, and so little irritating that it can even be used about the face without danger of conjunctivitis. Injections of Antiseptics.—To overcome the difficulties of bringing the antiseptic substances in contact with the micro-organisms through the un- broken skin, it has been suggested that they should be injected by the hypo- dermic syringe directly into the inflamed area. In some cases an immediate limitation of the inflammation has thus been secured, but the method is painful and there is danger of constitutional poisoning. The best results have been obtained in very superficial inflammations, such as erysipelas, and in specific chronic inflammations, such as tuberculosis. In the former injections of corrosive sublimate in 1 to 5000 solution are made a short distance from the advancing edge of the inflammation. In the latter iodoform in some form is injected directly into the tubercular focus. We may also mention the treatment of lymphadenitis due to venereal diseases when the gland is thoroughly broken down by suppuration, by injection of iodoform into the cavity after discharge of the pus. We refer to the special sections for details. Mechanical Astringents.—Attempts to modify the circulation and to prevent the spread of inflammation have been made by compression of the tissues just beyond the inflamed area by the painting of bands of contractile collodion on the skin or simply tight strapping with plaster. This will be mentioned under erysipelas, as it is in that disease that the best effects are obtained. Permanent Irrigation and Baths.—When there are abscesses, joints, or other cavities, or sinuses with a tendency to a retention of pus, permanent irrigation is one of the best methods of treatment. Drainage-tubes are in- serted into the bottom of the abscess or cavity to be irrigated and into all the sinuses, and one or more of these tubes are connected by rubber tubing with a vessel above the bed containing a very weak antiseptic solution (ace- tate of aluminum 1 to 500, or bichloride of mercury 1 to 10,000), which is allowed to run slowly into the cavities and sinuses, making its escape at the more dependent openings into a rubber sheet so arranged as to conduct it from the bed. It is necessary to suspend the part to be irrigated upon strips of bandage tied across a frame in such a way as to keep the part above the level of the sheet, as it becomes macerated by lying in the water. The