713 TREATMENT OF EXTRADURAL HEMORRHAGE. probable, reacting to 100° F. (37.8° C.) or 101° F. (38.3° C). In the case of multiple small hemorrhages, as has already been noticed, the symptoms are similar to those of concussion of the brain. Extradural bleeding occurs slowly, and although the clot lies near the motor centres it is not until it has attained a considerable size that symptoms of paralysis appear. It is there- fore characteristic of this kind of hemorrhage for the symptoms to appear some hours or even days after the injury, the patient seeming cpiite well in the mean time. Sometimes he manifests a limited local paralysis in the first stage before symptoms of general compression of the brain appear. In ex- ceptional cases the symptoms have begun immediately after the injury, but it is evident that there may be early symptoms due to other causes, such as concussion of the brain, which may mask the free interval. The usual course of these cases is as follows. A man who has received a severe blow upon the head feels somewhat shaken or even stunned, but recovers himself in a few minutes and then goes about as usual. Suddenly he feels a weakness in the hand or leg, which increases to actual paralysis, and may extend until hemiplegia is produced, with aphasia. Symptoms of cerebral compression then appear, sometimes accompanied by epileptic or spastic convulsions; the patient begins to be stupid, and finally falls into coma. The pupils are sluggish and are apt to be contracted in the first stage, then widely dilated upon the side on which the clot is situated, especially if the blood gravitate to the base. The presence of aphasia indicates an extension of the clot for- ward, and the existence of anaesthesia a backward extension. Although the interval without symptoms is generally considered diagnostic, the same course is occasionally seen in hemorrhage under the dura, where the clot is localized from some cause, so that an absolute diagnosis may be im- possible. The paralysis in extradural hemorrhage appears upon the opposite side from the situation of the clot, except in a very small percentage of cases which are as yet inexplicable. Subdural hemorrhage often causes paralysis of the cranial nerves of the same side as the blood settles to the base and presses on the nerves themselves and not on their centres, a fact which may aid in determining the site of the clot. Prognosis.—The prognosis of intracranial hemorrhage is very grave even in the extradural form, where the opportunities for spontaneous arrest are the best, for only about ten per cent, of recoveries by expectant treatment are found in this variety. Small blood-clots may be absorbed, but large clots, especially in the brain, are apt to be converted into a loose cellular tissue with cysts in its meshes, sometimes of very large size. These cysts result in atrophy of the brain and are common causes of epilepsy. Treatment.—In extradural hemorrhage the clot may be reached by a trephine opening at the crossing of two lines, the first of which is drawn two finger-breadths above the zygoma and the second one finger-breadth, or rather more, posterior to the posterior edge of the malar bone at its junc- tion with the zygoma. This opening strikes the anterior branch of the meningeal artery, and will be likely to reach the clot above this point or below, the two favorite situations for these extradural clots. (Fig. 644.) Steiner recommends drawing a line from the glabella to the tip of the mas-