CONGENITAL DEFORMITIES OF THE URETHRA. 1067 The injury may lie so deep that it is impossible to open the urethra behind it or to find the vesical end of the torn canal. In such cases the bladder should be opened above the pubes and a sound passed forward into the urethra from the bladder and made to project through a free perineal incision, by which a catheter can be inserted in the bladder as the sound is withdrawn. In any case, after five or six days have elapsed, the weekly use of steel urethral sounds should be begun, in order to avoid stricture from cicatricial contraction. In neglected cases free incisions will be necessary to combat the urinary extravasation, as will be described farther on. Foreign bodies may be introduced into the urethra in unnatural erotic excitement or in play by children, or instruments may break in the canal. They are to be removed at once by forceps, or through an incision if im. pacted. Hair-pins lying with the points towards the meatus can be removed by introducing a stiff tube and catching both ends of the pin in it, or by cutting the loop with a small lithotrite and removing the pieces separately. Long pins with large heads, which have been introduced head first, can be reversed by making the point penetrate the floor of the urethra and draw- ing out all but the head, which is then turned over and thrust towards the meatus, and the pin withdrawn head first. Calculi rarely form in the urethra, but vesical or renal calculi may be caught behind a urethral stricture. The presence of a calculus causes pain, obstructed micturition, and a bloody or purulent discharge. If the stone is in the prostate, the symptoms resemble those of vesical calculus. Calculi can be felt through the penis or by a sound in the urethra. They may cause perforation of the urethra and extravasation of urine. They can be removed by forceps, or crushed, or taken out through a median incision. Congenital Deformities.—The meatus may be congenitally small, and is sometimes imperforate. (See Atresia of the Urethra, below.) Close contraction may also result from the cicatrix following ulceration or injury at this point. A narrow meatus may cause such obstruction to the escape of the urine as to result in hypertrophy of the bladder, dilatation of the ureters, and hydronephrosis. Even when the orifice is not small enough to interfere seriously with micturition, various nervous disturbances, such as irritability of the bladder, convulsions, sexual hyperesthesia, and many others, may be caused by it. Treatment.—The meatus should be enlarged by an incision upon the floor of the urethra, cutting towards the frenum, but the incision should be made in the urethra, for the skin just outside is usually distensible, and can be stretched if the inner layer be cut, The shape and elasticity of the orifice are thus preserved, and the unpleasant dribbling after urination caused by improper enlargement is avoided. A sound should be passed every day, to maintain the size of the canal, until the wound is healed. While the op- eration is a trifling one, death from hemorrhage has been known to follow it, and there is also danger of infection. The ordinary antiseptic precautions should be taken, therefore, and the patient should have some one near him at night in order to act promptly in case severe hemorrhage occurs during an erection while asleep. In contraction of the meatus from ulceration an