iro GAUZE DRESSINGS. drachms of iodoform to 6 ounces of Castile soapsuds, into 18 ounces of moist sterilized gauze ; or by saturating boiled sterilized gauze with a solution of iodoform in ether, then allowing the ether to evaporate rapidly, the iodo- form thus being evenly distributed through the tissue of the gauze; this should be dried and kept in jars for use. The iodoform gauze in general use contains about ten per cent, of iodoform by weight. Carbolized Gauze.—In preparing carbolized gauze, cheese-cloth which has been previously boiled and dried is soaked for a few hours in the following solution : resin, 1 pint; alcohol, 5 pints; castor oil, 24 ounces ; carbolic acid, 12 ounces. The gauze is removed from this solution and passed through a clothes-wringer, and is then cut into pieces from four to six yards in length, which are folded and packed in air-tight jars for use. Many other varieties of gauze, such as pyoktanin gauze, salicylated gauze, and borated gauze, are prepared, but, as they are expensive and not so satisfactory as those just mentioned, they are not much employed. Improvised Aseptic or Antiseptic Dressings.—Aseptic dress- ings in cases of emergency may be improvised, where the ordinary gauze dressings cannot be obtained, by tearing a piece of muslin or mosquito netting into pieces half a yard square and throwing them into boiling water for a few minutes ; they are then removed, the excess of moisture is wrung out of them, and they are applied to cover the wound. If it is desirable, they may be used as antiseptic dressings by soaking them for a few minutes in a 1 to 1000 or 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, or in a five per cent, carbolic solution. This dressing will keep the wound aseptic until a more elaborate dressing can be obtained. Aseptic or Antiseptic Bandages.—Aseptic bandages are prepared by tearing or cutting gauze into strips from two and a half to three inches in width and forming these strips into rollers, which are sterilized by boil- ing or dry heat. They should be used soon after being prepared, or, if kept for any time, should be resterilized before being used. Antiseptic bandages may be prepared from bichloride or carbolized gauze, but before being used, to render their sterilization more complete, may be soaked for a few minutes in a 1 to 1000 bichloride or a five per cent, carbolic solution. Bichloride Cotton.—This material is prepared by soaking absorbent cotton in a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution for twenty-four hours, and allowing it to dry, or it may be dried in a hot oven; when dry it is packed in jars or in air-tight boxes. Several layers of bichloride cotton are usually ap- plied over the gauze dressing, as its great absorbing power and elasticity make it, when properly prepared, a most valuable dressing. Borated, car- bolized, and salicylated cotton prepared in the same manner are also fre- quently employed for similar purposes. Sterilized Cotton.—Sterilized cotton is prepared by placing absorbent cotton, enclosed in perforated metal cans, in a steam sterilizer and allowing it to remain for several hours. It is used for the same purposes in dressings as the bichloride cotton. Moist Sterilized Gauze Dressings.—Moist sterilized gauze dress- ings are prepared by subjecting gauze which has been boiled in soda solu-