HYDROCEPHALUS. 722 instance. Horsley advises the excision of the centre in every case, even when some irritating cause has been found and removed, such as the pro- jecting bone in an old depressed fracture, in order to get rid of a part of the brain which may have already formed the epileptic habit. Paralysis ensues in the parts supplied by the centre removed, but the paralysis is temporary, and in a few weeks the function is restored. The results of these operations for epilepsy, of which many hundreds have been performed, are decidedly unsatisfactory ; but the condition is a hopeless one, and even a respite of a few months will repay the patient for the suffering. Hydrocephalus.—Hydrocephalus is the distention of the ventricles by cerebro-spinal fluid caused by the obstruction of the passages through which the fhiid escapes, to an interference with the venous circulation of the pam- piniform plexus, or to a tubercular infection. It occurs almost invariably in children, the child's head becoming very large, the fontanelles remaining open, the sutures widely separating and leaving the membranes pulsating between the edges of the bones. The frontal bones are particularly dis- tended, and the forehead projects beyond the eyebrows. The general symptoms are mental irritability, with headache, strabismus, optic neuritis, vomiting, vertigo, and slow pulse, especially after the sutures have become ossified. There is often in the early stages a certain precocity, but later the cerebral faculties are decidedly impaired. Convulsions are sometimes seen. Treatment.—Attempts to cure hydrocephalus by aspiration were made many years ago. Keen has recommended direct drainage through the pari- etal bones at the point where the ventricles lie nearest the surface, one and a half inches behiad the external auditory meatus and the same distance above the base-line of the skull, the trocar being directed upward. Quincke recommends drainage by tapping the spinal canal below and applying press- ure to the head at the same time. It has also been suggested by Parkin to drain by tapping the subarachnoid space by trephining the occiput and lift- ing up the cerebellum. Some favorable results have been obtained in these cases, but, as a rule, the treatment secures only temporary improvement. Microcephalus.—Idiotic individuals often have small heads, and the theory has been advanced that the premature ossification of the sutures prevents the proper development of the brain, but it is incorrect, for the sutures do not ossify earlier in idiotic than in normal children. Treatment.—The operation of craniectomy, which is intended to give the brain an opportunity to expand, has been performed on a large number of cases, but without much success in improving the mental condition. A strip of bone one-quarter of an inch wide, including the entire thickness of the skull, is removed on one side of the longitudinal sinus, and oblique strips are also cut from the parietal bones. A small trephine is applied, and entering the cutting forceps by this opening the strip is removed. With the aid of an electro-motor saw, such as Powell's, these operations can be done with great rapidity. Intracranial Tumors.—Pathology.—Whether an intracranial tumor grows from the bones of the skull, from the membranes, or from the brain itself, the chief effects produced by it are mechanical and due to its mere presence within the cranial cavity. The clinical history of the different