651 OSTEOPLASTIC RESECTION OF THE UPPER JAW. as recurrence sooner or later takes place in the adjacent tissues, but the patient's life is often prolonged and made much more comfortable by the operation. When, however, the operation is undertaken for exposure of retropharyngeal growths, if possible, an osteoplastic resection of the jaw should be preferred to an excision. Operation.—In excising the upper jaw the incision is begun half an inch below the inner canthus of the eye, and is carried downward along the line of junction of the nose and face, and then downward to the free border of the lip ; it is also advisable to carry the incision along the lower edge of the orbit outward over the malar bone. (Fig. 581. ) This flap having been dissected away from the surface of the bone, a small narrow metacarpal saw should be applied to the floor of the nostril until a deep groove has been made ; the soft palate should next be divided from within the mouth with a strong knife, and one or two incisor teeth being removed, and one blade of a pair of strong bone-cutting pliers introduced into the floor of the nose, in the line of the saw incision, and the other into the mouth, in the line of the division of the structures of the palate, the bone should be divided. The hard palate and other connections of the bone may be divided with a chisel. The malar bone should next be divided with a saw or forceps (Fig. 582), and finally the blades of a strong pair of bone-cutting forceps should be introduced, one into the nostril and the other at the edge of the orbit, the important structures of the orbit being held upward with a retractor, and the inner angle of the orbit cut across ; the bone is then grasped with strong lion-jawed forceps and twisted out, any bands of tissue which hold being divided with a knife or scissors. The most serious hemorrhage is apt to result from division of the internal maxillary artery ; this may be grasped with haemostatic forceps and secured by a ligature, or, if it is impossible to seize the bleeding vessel, the hemorrhage may be controlled by the actual cautery. After the bleeding has been arrested, the edges of the incision should be brought accurately together by sutures, and a pad of iodoform gauze placed in the cavity of the cheek. Osteoplastic Resection of the Upper Jaw.—Osteoplastic resec- tion of the superior maxillary bone by Langenbeck's method consists in Fig. 582. Incision for excision of the upper jaw. Excision of the upper jaw. (Agnew.")