ACUTE SUPPURATIVE SYNOVITIS OF THE KNEE. 624 DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. The knee-joint may be the seat of simple synovitis, acute suppurative synovitis or arthritis, and tubercular synovitis or arthritis ; there are also observed not infrequently cases of chronic synovitis of the knee-joint, with marked effusion, which may be tubercular or may be independent of the presence of the bacillus tuberculosis. Simple Synovitis.—This may result from traumatism, from exposure to heat or cold, or from over-exertion. Symptoms.—In this disease there are pain aud swelling of the joint, with loss of function, the swelling being due to effusion in the joint and oedenia of the extra-articular structures. The temperature is usually elevated, and the pulse is increased in frequency. The presence of effusion in the joint can usually be proved by the floating of the patella ; when this is pressed upon it can be made to touch the con- dyles of the femur ; when the pressure is relieved it springs back into place. The knee is flexed if the effusion is considerable, this position being as- sumed to relieve tension and pain. The only condition with which this affection can be confounded is hemorrhage into the joint, which occurs earlier than synovial effusion and is much more consistent to the touch. Treatment.—The patient being put at rest in bed, the knee-joint should be fixed by the application of a posterior splint, and the joint covered with lint saturated with lead water and laudanum, or an ice-bag applied. Under this treatment, usually in a few days the active symptoms disappear. The fixation should be continued until the effusion has disappeared, and when the patient begins to move about the joint should be supported by a flannel bandage. Massage also is useful in hastening the absorption of the effusion and restoring function. Acute Suppurative Synovitis or Arthritis.—This affection may result from penetrating wounds of the knee-joint or infection of the joint by the localization of pyogenic organisms from the blood-vessels, as seen in cases of pyaemia. Symptoms.—The joint becomes red, swollen, and painful, there is loss of function, and the position of the articular surfaces is changed so as to afford the patient relief from the distention ; the patient at the same time exhibits the symptoms of constitutional infection, elevation of temperature, rapid pulse, rigors, and sweating. Treatment.—The treat- ment which affords the best results is early and free incision of the joint, with irrigation, and the introduction of gauze or rubber drainage ; the joint should be covered with a copious gauze dressing, and put at rest by the ap- plication of a splint or a plaster of Paris dressing. If incisions are made and free drainage secured before the articular cartilages have been destroyed, a good result as regards function of the joint follows in many cases. Chronic Synovitis.—This affection is sometimes seen in the knee- joint independently of the presence of tubercle, and may consist either in great thickening of the structures of the joint or in a large effusion into it; the latter condition is known as hydrops articuU, and through stretching of the capsule and the ligaments the joint is rendered weak and insecure. Treat- ment.—In many cases of chronic synovitis of the knee the use of blisters or of counter-irritation by other means, or the application of an ointment com-