1121 TUMORS OF THE KIDNEY. and is then bilateral in most cases. The symptoms of this condition when it occurs gradually are so little marked as to be unperceived until the tumor reaches a considerable size, for the other kidney gradually hypertrophies and does the work of both. When a ureter is suddenly blocked by a cal- culus or by a twist, the patient is seized with intense pain in the renal region, which may be so severe as to be uncontrollable by morphine, and uraemia may develop The kidney can be felt enlarged and tender. In a case of floating kidney repeated attacks of obstruction of the ureter may occur with intervals free from symptoms, and the name of intermittent hydro- nephrosis has been given to this condition. The retention may pass off with a sudden rush of urine to the bladder, which may have to be emptied three or four times at short intervals, the flow bringing relief from pain and the disappearance of the tumor. When the obstruction is chronic the only sign may be the tumor developing in the renal region, which may attain a large size, extending downward to the pelvis and across the middle line. This tumor seldom is tender or occasions pain, but vomiting may be pro- duced by direct pressure on the stomach or by dragging on the attachments of the pylorus. The fluid of the cyst is of low specific gravity, and contains but little urea. The result of chronic hydronephrosis is the destruction of the kidney-substance as it is flattened out in the wall of the cyst until finally scarcely a trace of it may be left. In some cases the tumor has ruptured and caused peritonitis, usually fatal. Treatment.—The treatment of intermittent hydronephrosis, if it is due to extreme mobility of the kidney, which is usually the case, is fixation of the organ in its proper position, which prevents a return of the obstruc- tion. In the chronic form the kidney-substance may be so altered as to be useless, and nephrectomy is the best treatment. The cyst may be drained either extraperitoneally or through the peritoneal cavity by suture of the sac-wall to the parietal peritoneum, and, as a rule, the drainage will cease spontaneously, owing to the complete destruction of the kidney-tissue. If discharge of the urine through the fistula should persist, nephrectomy may be performed by cutting down on the remains of the kidney and the cyst and removing the entire mass. If operation is impoasible because of the patient's condition, the cyst may be emptied by aspiration, and cases are on record which have been cured by repeated aspiration; but this method is not without danger, for infection may take place and suppuration result. Solid Tumors.—The solid tumors of the kidney are almost invariably malignant, although adenomata or lipomata are occasionally found, as well as mixed tumors of congenital origin containing lymphoid tissue and often some striped muscular fibres, and resembling the mixed tumors of the parotid. The mixed tumors are supposed to originate from misplaced frag- ments of the suprarenal bodies lodged in the kidney-substance. Lipoma of the fatty capsule of the kidney is quite common, and forms large retroperitoneal tumors, the diagnosis of which from lipoma of the mesentery is not easy. The situation of the tumor, however, and its resem- blance to the kidney in shape, will aid in making the diagnosis. These tumors are innocent, and may be left untouched unless they attain a large size and cause symptoms by pressure upon various organs. Adenoma of 71