329 CONTROL OF ARTERIAL HEMORRHAGE. completed. This permits of contraction and retraction of the ends of the artery. Suture.—Billroth, Schede, Schmidt, and many others have successfully practised suture of wounds in veins, thereby preserving permeability of the vein at the seat of injury. Murphy has practised experimentally in animals the same procedure both in arteries and in veins, and recommends, when more than two-thirds of the circumference of the vessel has been divided, resecting the injured portion of the vessel where it can be done without re- moving more than three-fourths of an inch of the vessel, and invaginating one end into the other, securing it by fine silk sutures. In longitudinal wounds the edges may be brought together with fine silk sutures introduced by means of a fine cambric needle ; the sutures should be inserted from one- sixteenth to one-twentieth of an inch apart and one-sixteenth of an inch from the edges of the wound, and should include only the adventitia and media, not perforating the intima. During the operation the circulation in the vessel should be controlled, both above and below the wound, by forceps covered with rubber tubing, and where a distinct sheath is present it should be sutured, or, where this is not present, muscle or fascia should be sutured over the closed wound in the vessel. Styptics.—These are agents which have a marked astringent or coagu- lating effect upon the tissues, such as Monsel's solution, antipyrin, acetic acid, dry or moist heat, and cold. Styptics were formerly much employed in the treatment of arterial hemorrhage, but at the present time are not much used, except for the control of capillary or parenchymatous hemorrhage. Hot Water.—Hot water is often employed as a styptic, and controls bleeding by producing contraction of the tissues and coagulation of the albu- min : it should be used at a temperature of 115° to 130° F. ( 45.1° to 54.4° C.) to obtain the best effects. Hot water is not employed to control hemorrhage when arteries of any considerable size are injured, but may be used with advantage in capillary or parenchymatous bleeding. Water which has been sterilized by boiling and cooled down to the proper temperature is a per- fectly safe application to wounds. In cases where large oozing surfaces are exposed, as often happens in extensive wounds or in operations upon the abdominal cavity, hot water acts well as a styptic, and has the additional advantage of furnishing heat, which diminishes the shock of the operation. Gauze compresses wrung out of hot water may be packed into wounds to control bleeding, combining the effects of pressure and heat. Cold Water or Ice.—These substances may be used as styptics, and act by producing reflex vascular contraction, being used in the form of irriga- tion or an ice-bag. Cold applied in this way is not as efficient as hot water ; it also has the disadvantage of chilling the patient and increasing the shock, which may be a serious matter in cases in which profuse hemorrhage has taken place. Antipyrin.—A solution of antipyrin, five per cent., in sterilized water possesses marked styptic action. As it also possesses antiseptic properties and is not toxic, it may be used without risk to control capillary bleeding from the surface of the brain, intestines, and peritoneum, and from bone- cavities.