605 NEUROPATHIC ARTHRITIS. sionally develops in feeble individuals under this age; it is more common in women than in men. It appears to arise from loss of vitality of the tis- sues, possibly dependent upon trophic nerve-changes, which lead to defective innervation. In the early stage of this affection the articular cartilages ap- pear roughened and fibrillated, and finally there is an actual loss of sub- stance in the cartilage ; later there is swelling of the edges of the cartilage, with the formation of nodules, and masses of cartilage may become detached, forming loose bodies in the joint; still later the bone becomes hypersemic, and osseous tissue is thrown out around the periphery of the joint, the latter condition producing great deformity and interfering seriously with its motions. (Fig. 540.) Symptoms.—The symptoms which distinguish this affection from other vari- eties of arthritis are slowness in the development of the articular changes, absence of pain or of elevation of tempera- ture, grating upon movement, enlarge- ment and distortion of the joints, and muscular atrophy. In young persons the disease may present a more acute type. In some cases one joint only is affected, es- pecially in elderly persons, in whom the hip may be involved, giving rise to the affection known as morbus coxcb senilis, or the vertebral articulations may be involved, producing stiffness and de- formity of the spine. Treatment.—The treatment of this affection is, upon the whole, unsat- isfactory, although in the early stage of the disease it may retard the devel- opment. All depressing influences should be removed, and the nutrition of the patient should be improved by the administration of cod-liver oil and arsenic; iodide of potassium and iodide of iron may often be employed with good results. Ankylosis of the joints should be prevented by careful passive motion, and massage is of great service in hastening the absorption of effusions and in improving the nutrition of the muscles and tissues in the region of the diseased joints. Periarthritis.—This is characterized by a subacute or chronic inflamma- tion of the deeper structures surrounding a joint, and is accompanied by less swelling and constitutional disturbance than accompany inflammation of the joint itself. It is rare in children, but is common in adults. The diagnosis from ostitis is made by observing that a distinct grating may be felt upon moving the joint. A single joint usually is involved, unless the affection be of rheumatic origin. Treatment.—This consists in rest of the joint for a time if pain is a prominent symptom, and later motion, under anaesthesia, and the use of massage and passive motion to restore the function of the joint. Neuropathic Arthritis.—Charcot's Disease.—This is a peculiar form of osteo-arthritis, which has been described by Charcot, presenting Fig. 540. Osteoarthritis of the shoulder-joint. (Agnew.)