965 TREATMENT OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. hours after the beginning of the symptoms. If the adhesions are so strong as to prevent reduction, the intussusception may be cut away and the ends of the bowel secured in the abdominal wound, but up to the present time no recoveries have followed this treatment in children, and but few in adults. The surgical treatment of intestinal obstruction consists in laparotomy or enterostomy. The laparotomy must be done, as a rule, in an explora- tory manner, as the diagnosis will be uncertain both as to the cause and as to the situation of the obstruction. The abdomen is to be opened by a median incision large enough to introduce the hand, in order to search for the cause of the obstruction. If a tumor is distinctly felt and is fixed at one side of the belly, a lateral incision over it may be more convenient. If the lesion cannot be found at once, the caecum should be examined, for its distention proves that the obstruction is below it, and the sigmoid flexure should then be examined. If the caecum is not distended, the obstruction must be in the small intestine, and the first loop of collapsed bowel which can be found is to be drawn up into the wound and the intestine passed rapidly through the fingers until it leads to the seat of the obstruction. Any bands or adhesions which are found are to be separated. Hernia through any of the internal apertures is corrected by reduction, and intus- susception is to be treated as already indicated. A volvulus is to be care- fully untwisted and stitches taken in the mesentery so as to shorten it and prevent a recurrence. In all these manipulations great care is necessary to avoid doing damage to the strangulated bowel, especially if the symptoms have lasted more than twenty-four hours, when the gut becomes very soft and is easily torn. If a foreign body is found in the intestine, an incision is made opposite to the mesenteric attachment, and after the removal of the foreign body the incision may be sutured, or the opening in the bowel may be secured in the abdominal wound by sutures, or it may be temporarily closed by clainps and left in the wound in case collapse makes it necessary. The great danger in all these operations lies in the fact that the patient is usually very feeble or in collapse by the time that consent to operation is obtained. The collapse may be counteracted by hot bottles about the patient, by elevating the foot of the bed, and by vigorous stimulation. The stomach should always be washed out before the operation is begun, as this will lessen the danger of aspiration of vomited fecal mate- rial into the lungs during unconsciousness from the anaesthetic, and of a subsequent septic pneumonia. If the cause of obstruction is such that it cannot be removed or cor- rected, we may leave it untouched and open the bowel above it, or make an anastomosis by connecting the bowel above and below the seat of the ob- struction ; or we may resect the bowel at the affected point, and either unite the ends or secure them in the abdominal wound. It will generally be unwise to attempt prolonged operations on these patients, on account of their exhausted condition, so that anastomosis and union of the ends are impracticable, and it is therefore frequently necessary to adopt the expe- dient of making an artificial anus by securing the ends of the bowel in the abdominal wound after resection. The simplest method is always the best,