838 POLYPI OF THE AUDITORY CANAL. and examined microscopically to confirm the diagnosis. The treatment consists in removing the growth as far as possible by the use of a curette. Exostoses of the Auditory Canal.—Bony growths of the auditory canal occasionally occur, and are said to be most common in swimmers, whose ears are frequently exposed to cold water. The growths increase slowly in size, but may attain such dimensions that they obstruct the canal and produce deafness. The treatment consists in incising the skin over the tumor and dissecting it free from the growth ; this may then be removed by dividing its base with a fine chisel, or it may be cut away by a burr or trephine attached to a dental engine. Polypi of the Auditory Canal.—These tumors may be composed of granulation-tissue, or may be of the fibro-cellular variety, and usually grow from the mucous membrane of the tympanum, but may also arise from the deeper portions of the auditory canal, springing from the inflamed and macerated cutis in connection with cases of chronic otorrhcea, or from granulations about the opening of a furuncle the healing of which has been delayed. Their presence is accompanied by muco-purulent discharge and blood ; pain may or may not be a prominent symptom. Treatment.—The seat of the polypi being exposed by a speculum, the growths may be removed by a snare, or twisted off by fine angular aural polypus forceps, and after they have been removed their bases may be touched with chromic acid, great care being taken to use only enough acid to cover the base of the tumor. The subsequent treatment consists in keep- ing the canal clean by the use of irrigation with antiseptic solutions, or by cleansing it with cotton applied by an applicator, and the insufflation of a powder of boric acid and aristol or of iodoform. Impacted Cerumen.—This usually results from injudicious attempts to remove the cerumen by a swab, by which means the wax is pushed inward and forms a considerable mass, which gradually increases in size until the auditory canal is filled with the secretion. The symptoms of impacted cerumen are singing or buzzing in the ear and more or less impairment of hearing, coming on suddenly. These symptoms should lead to an examina- tion of the ear with a speculum, when a brown mass can be seen filling the auditory canal. Treatment.—Impacted cerumen is best removed by syringing with warm water, 105° to 110° F. ; this will usually be followed by the escape of the mass of wax in fragments, unless the mass is very dry, in which case it may be softened by introducing into the ear a solution of carbonate of sodium, gr. xx; glycerin, fsi; water, £§i; a few drops of this solution should be dropped into the ear at intervals of an hour or so before the syringe is used, and after this treatment the mass can usually be promptly removed by syringing with warm water. Foreign Bodies in the Auditory Canal.—These may consist of animate or inanimate objects. The animate objects which find their way into the canal are flies, ants, bugs, or moths, or the larvae of flies may be deposited here, giving rise to maggots. The movements of these objects when they gain access to the ear often cause severe pain : they can be quickly killed by dropping a little sweet oil into the ear, or by allowing