922 DRAINAGE IN ABDOMINAL OPERATIONS. avoid contamination of the peritoneum. After squeezing the intestinal con- tents away from the seat of the wound the tape or clamp can be applied at some distance, so as not to interfere with the operation. The intestine or stomach should, if possible, be drawn out of the abdominal wound, which is filled with gauze pads or sponges, and then wounds can be made or treated without danger to the peritoneum. Drainage.—Much judgment is required to decide whether to drain after a laparotomy. The wound may be closed without drainage if there is no danger of hemorrhage, and if no infectious material has reached the perito- neal cavity. When there is a possibility of hemorrhage after the operation, it is wise to insert a drain, to give prompt warning when the bleeding begins. If pus or fecal material has escaped into the abdomen, even when it has been thoroughly washed out, it is best to drain. If no inflammation follows, the drain may be removed in twenty-four hours, and the opening for it can be closed by a suture, which may be introduced at the time of operation, but left untied. Drainage may be made by rubber or glass tubes, the latter being more easily rendered aseptic, but requiring care to avoid damage by pressure on the bowel. Very excellent capillary drainage is made by rubber tissue loosely rolled into a spiral, or with a core of iodoform gauze. When gauze packing is left in the abdomen the wound must necessarily be left open for its removal, and no drainage-tubes are necessary in such cases. Closing the abdominal wound is accomplished by sutures of heavy silk or silkworm-gut inserted through the entire thickness of the abdominal wall, about four or five to the inch, care being taken that the edges of the peritoneal surfaces are apposed to each other at the bottom of the wound. A better method is to make a separate suture of the peritoneum, and then pass heavy sutures through all the rest of the abdominal wound without penetrating that membrane, thus shutting off the peritoneal cavity from the possibility of infection by pus collecting along the outer sutures. Another method is to suture each part of the abdominal wall, the peritoneum, the muscular and tendinous structures, and the skin, separately. Catgut may be used for all these sutures, and the sutures may be made continuous. If catgut be used, however, and there is any danger of peritonitis following with the possibility of distention by tympanites, it is well to put in two or three tension sutures of a more lasting material through the entire thickness of the abdominal wall at proper intervals in the wound. Some surgeons prefer a more durable material for the muscular and tendinous layers, and employ buried sutures of silk, silkworm-gut, chromicized catgut, or kanga- roo tendon. Buried sutures of permanent material are of no advantage, as they loosen in a few hours, and they are a source of danger, being liable to cause abscesses from latent spores contained in them. The after-treatment of ordinary laparotomy cases consists in rest in bed, low diet, and attention to the bowels. The practice of surgeons differs as to the administration of purgatives, some preferring to give them at once on the least sign of disturbance, and others delaying. Under ordinary cir- cumstances the bowels should be moved by an enema on the second or third day, and sulphate of magnesium may be given if necessary, particularly if there is a rise of temperature, pain, or tympanites. In cases of suture of