COLD WATER DRESSINGS. 197 acid or bichloride of mercury; a 1 to 60 to 80 carbolic acid solution or a 1 to 4000 to 8000 bichloride solution is frequently employed with good results. Mediate Irrigation.—In this method a flexible tube of india-rubber, half an inch in diameter and from sixteen to twenty feet in length, with thin walls, is applied, to the limb like a spiral bandage, or is applied in a coil to the head, breast, or joints, and held in place by a few turns of a band- age. The end of the tube is attached to a reservoir filled with cold or warm water above the level of the patient's bed, and the water is allowed to flow constantly through the tube, whence it escapes into the receptacle arranged to Mediate irrigation, receive it. (Fig. 135.) Cold Water Dressings.—These dressings are applied by bringing water, whose temperature may vary from that of cool water to that of ice- water, directly in contact with the part, or by applying it by means of a rubber bag or bladder. Cold water dressings are employed in local inflam- matory conditions, and a popular method of application is by means of cold compresses, which are made of a few layers of surgical lint dipped in water of the desired temperature and applied to the part; they should be renewed as they become warm. If it is desirable to have the compresses very cold, they may be laid upon a block of ice or in a basin with broken ice. The ice-bag, which consists of a rubber bag or bladder filled with hroken ice, is used to obtain the direct action of cold upon the part. It is often employed as an application to the head in inflammatory condi- tions of the brain or its membranes, and it is also used upon the surface of the body to control internal hemorrhage. COUNTER-IRRITATIOK This consists in producing external irritation to influence internal morbid processes, the results obtained being due to the action of the irritant upon the blood-vessels and nerves. Counter-irritants are substances employed to excite external irritation. The extent of their action varies with the material used and the duration of its application : superficial redness or the complete destruction of the vitality of the parts to which they are applied may result. They are widely used as local revulsants in cases of congestion or inflammation, and have a stimulating effect in cases of collapse. Hot Water.—When it is desired to make a quick impression upon the skin, the application of muslin or flannel cloths wrung out of hot water and renewed frequently will produce a superficial redness of the integument.