STERILIZATION BY HEAT. 11 blood and pus, mercuric bichloride being transformed into an indifferent substance, and even carbolic acid being altered. The proportional amounts of the germicidal solution and of the matter to be sterilized are to be con- sidered, the action of the former being much more intense when it is abundant. The age of the solutions is also important, and fresh solutions, even of so permanent a salt as the bichloride, have a greater power. We have limited ourselves to a discussion of the means of destroying patho- genic germs, but those of decomposition are often more obstinate and tena- cious of life, some of the saprophytes being able to multiply even in a 1 to 44,000 solution of bichloride of mercury. Sterilization by Heat.—Heat is the surest and quickest method of de- stroying germs, even the spores being killed. Anthrax spores are killed in two minutes in boiling water, and the various bacilli and cocci in from two to five seconds. When a substance is to be sterilized by heat which will not bear so high a temperature, the method of fractional sterilization is employed, the fluid to be sterilized being raised to 140°, 160°, or 175° F. (60°, 70°, or 80° C.) for from fifteen to thirty minutes every day for from three to seven days ; the theory being that the adult germs are killed by the first heating, and that any spores which develop subsequently are destroyed in their adult state at the next heating. The fluid meanwhile must be kept at an even temperature, which will encourage the development of any spores it may contain. Even anthrax spores can be killed by heating to 167° or 185° F. (75° or 85° C.) in a one and four-tenths per cent, solution of sodium car- bonate for from eight to twenty minutes. Dry heat is not so efficient as moist, for a temperature of 284° F. (140° C.) dry heat continued for three hours is needed to kill anthrax spores. Staining Methods.—In order to detect micro-organisms in the tissues or elsewhere the use of staining is almost indispensable, and the bacteria stain readily in the various basic aniline dyes, such as gentian-violet or methyl-blue and fuchsin. The last named is much used for coloring tubercle bacilli in a solution known as ZiehPs, which is made of one gramme of crys- tals of fuchsin and one hundred cubic centimetres of five per cent, solution of carbolic acid, to which ten cubic centimetres of absolute alcohol are slowly added. The cover-glass smear is prepared in the usual way by putting a minute quantity of the material to be examined on one cover-glass, wiping it off with another, and drying it rapidly by passing it through a flame. The cover-glass is floated face down on the solution, which is carefully brought to the boiling-point and kept there for a few minutes. The smear is then decolorized with sulphuric acid, washed in alcohol (sixty to eighty per cent.) two or three times, and rinsed thoroughly in water. Methyl-blue will give a very good counterstain, contrasting with the red bacilli. It is said that the same stain can be used cold, allowing it to act for two minutes, washing in water, then decolorizing as before. Gram's method is commonly used, and especially because the gono- cocci are first stained and then decolorized, by it, and thus distinguished from certain other forms. The specimen is stained for one or two minutes in gentian-violet or methyl-blue. It is then put in a solution of iodine one part, iodide of potassium two parts, and distilled water three hundred parts,