1039 CHANCRE. often communicated in an innocent manner, and extragenital chancre is, therefore, not uncommon, constituting ten per cent, of the whole number according to Bulkley. An abrasion of the surface is generally necessary, although it is asserted that the inoculation can take place on a sound surface, the virus penetrating the epithelium or travelling down a hair or sebaceous follicle. When situated on the genitals, the favorite seats of chancre are the inner layer of the prepuce and the balanopreputial furrow. It occurs also on the glans, the skin of the penis, at the meatus, which it generally surrounds, although it may occupy either lip, and in the urethra itself, where it occa- sions a discharge and may simulate gonorrhoea. In women it is situated on the labia, fourehette, prepuce, and clitoris, rarely in the vagina and on the cervix uteri. Extragenital chancres may occur upon any part of the body, but are most common on the lip (Plate IV., Fig. 1), the tongue, and the tonsil, on the finger (Plate IV., Fig. 3) in surgeons and obstetricians, and on the nipple in nursing women. The chancre may occur in one of several forms. It appears as the chancrous erosion (the most common variety), the deep ulcerating (Hunterian) chancre, and the dry papule (Lancereaux). Other rare forms are the silvery spot, the follicular or urn- bilicated chancre, and the necrotic nodule. The chancrous erosion, the form most commonly seen, appears as a smooth polished surface denuded of epithelium, dull red, seldom excavated, but sometimes covered by a thin greenish membrane, and furnishing a scanty serous or sero-sanguineous discharge, contagious in character. In the ulcerating chancre, which follows ulceration of the ordinary variety, there exists an excavated surface with sloping edges and a gray base, the discharge being sero-purulent. The Hunterian chancre is one in which the ulcerative process has gone on to the production of a deep funnel-shaped ulcer, surrounded by much induration, and with a base often covered by grayish membrane. (Plate IV., Fig. 6.) It is believed by some, probably incorrectly, to be associated with a viru- lent form of syphilis. The dry papule occurs on a dry surface, and hence is common on the skin, where, owing to lack of moisture, it does not ulcerate, but remains as a papule with a dry desquamating surface. A constant feature of the chancre is a characteristic induration, hard and circumscribed to the touch, very different from the inflammatory thickening around an inflamed chancroid, and due to a round-cell infiltration in and around the ulcer and to a layer of oedeniatous tissue around its base. It is more pro- nounced where connective tissue is most abundant, as at the frenum and behind the glans. Where the induration presents the sensation as if a leaf of parchment were placed beneath the ulcer, the thickening is known as parchment induration. It is sometimes described as split-pea induration, the feeling being that of a half of a pea, flat side up, slipped under the skin, or, in the Hunterian variety, it may be still more pronounced, and surround the sore. The induration is not fully developed for ten days or two weeks after the first appearance of the chancre, and lasts generally into the secondary stage. Chancre is usually single, multiple chancre being due to simultaneous inoculation in several places, and not to auto-inoculation.