883 THORACOTOMY. Fig. 752. aspirator. If an aspirator is not at hand, a trocar and canula may be used, and after the withdrawal of the trocar one end of a rubber tube may be fastened to the end of the canula, and the other placed in a basin of water to prevent the entrance of air into the chest, or a puncture may be made with a narrow-bladed knife, and the puncture kept open by the introduction of a grooved director. Whichever form of instrument be used, it is essen- tial that it be thoroughly sterilized before being introduced in the pleural cavity. In performing paracentesis thoracis it is not usually necessary to give an anaesthetic, as the operation is not painful; but, if desired, local anaes- thesia may be produced by ice applied to the surface, by a spray of rhigo- lene, or by the subcutaneous injection of cocaine. The patient should be in a semi-recumbent posture, and the skin surrounding the seat of the pro- posed puncture should be carefully sterilized. The part usually selected is the mid-axillary line, between the seventh and eighth or the eighth and ninth ribs. (Fig. 752.) The skin is drawn upward or downward with the finger, and the needle is introduced with a quick thrust; when it has pene- trated the pleura the trocar is removed and the fluid is allowed to escape into the vacuum-bottle. If the patient presents no unfavorable symptoms, as much fluid as possible should be removed, but if he shows symptoms of syncope after a con- siderable quantity of fluid has been re- moved, the head should be lowered and the needle withdrawn. If the patient coughs, and blood escapes from the canula, showing that the lung has been punctured, the instrument should be withdrawn. When it is removed the small punc- ture should be closed with gauze and iodoform collodion. In many cases of simple serous effusion one or two tappings will effect a cure, and in puru- lent effusion, especially in children, a cure may result from one or more tappings. As a rule, however, in purulent effusion aspiration gives only temporary relief, and a cure results only after an incision has been made and thorough drainage has been established. Thoracotomy.—Pus may be removed from the pleura by a simple incision between the ribs, from an inch to one and a half inches in length, which should be made in a dependent portion of the chest and in the mid- axillary line. Simple incision without the introduction of a drainage-tube is not often practised. The most satisfactory method of draining purulent pleural effusions is as follows. The chest upon the side of the operation should be shaved, espe- cially the axillary region, and the skin should be carefully sterilized ; after mapping out the area of dulness, an incision about one and a half inches in length should be made through the tissues between the sixth and seventh ribs in the mid-axillary line; the tissues being carefully divided until the pleura is exposed, this should be opened with a knife or a director, when A, position at which to open the pleural cavity. (After Dennis.)