OPERATIONS FOR CATARACT. 827 Cataract extraction. Puncture and counter-puncture have been made. metres below the summit of the cornea, carried across the anterior cham- ber to a point directly opposite the point of entrance, and counter-punc- ture effected. The in- cision is completed with a slightly sweeping move- ment, the edge of the knife being kept well upon the border of the cornea. (Fig. 717.) The iris forceps are now inserted between the lips of the wound, and a small piece of iris is ex- cised in the manner al- ready described. (See page 821.) Next the cys- totome is introduced and passed to the bottom of the coloboma. Its cutting edge being turned towards the lens capsule, a T-shaped opening is made.* The lens is delivered by making pressure, with an upward movement, against the inferior portion of the cornea with the back of a polished spoon. (Fig. 718.) Finally, the toilet FlG- 718- of the wound is performed, during which cortical rem- nants and tags of capsule are expelled from the coloboma, the edges of the iris are care- fully replaced, and the wound margins are brought into exact coaptation. (6) Simple Extraction, or Extraction without Iridec- tomy.—This operation is per- formed in its main features ex- actly as the one just described, save only that the iridectomy is omitted, and that the section for fnll-sized cataracts should comprise exactly the upper half of the cornea ; for smaller, Morgagnian and soft cataracts, somewhat less. After extraction by either method, the eyes may be dressed with small oval pads of sterilized gauze and cotton, held in position with a few strips of surgeon's isinglass plaster. Over this dressing a shield or mask may be placed, among the best being the one known as Ring's ocular mask. The dressings should be removed daily and the outside of the lids bathed with tepid bichloride solution (1 to 5000), but if there has been no pain and there Expulsion of lens. * There is much difference of opinion as to the exact method of opening the capsule, many surgeons preferring to open it in its periphery.