GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 226 same line as the wound of entrance, for the ball may be deflected from its course by coming in contact with strong fasciae, tendons, cartilage, or bone ; in a gunshot wound of the anterior portion of the chest, the ball may strike a rib, and following this backward may have its wound of exit near the spine, or may be found embedded in the muscle upon the side of the spine. One ball may also produce several wounds of entrance and exit: a ball striking the flexed leg may penetrate this as well as the thigh, pro- ducing four wounds, or may penetrate one of the extremities as well as the body. The wound may be infected by the ball or shot, or by portions of the clothing or skin carried into the wound by the projectile. Where large vessels or important organs are not injured, the favorable or unfavorable course of the wound depends largely upon the absence or presence of the primary infection of the wound. A gunshot wound is practically a subcutaneous injury, and if the track of the wound is kept free from infection from without, although the tissues are contused and lacerated, healing often takes place without the occurrence of suppuration. Experience has shown that infection of gunshot wounds from the projectile itself is not common, and this has led surgeons to be less zealous in exploring and enlarging these wounds in attempts to remove the missiles. There is a popular belief that the dangers of a gunshot wound are much diminished by the removal of the ball, which will often cause the patient and his friends to insist upon the surgeon's making some attempt to remove the ball, but this should not lead the surgeon to alter his judgment if he considers the case one in which at- tempts to remove the ball should not be made. When a ball can be located without difficulty it is well to remove it, but when the search for and removal of the ball necessitate an extensive dissec- tion of the tissues it is much better to let it remain. The position of a ball may be located by palpation of the tis- sues, by the introduction of the finger into the wound, or more frequently by the use of a probe. The white porcelain- tipped probe of Uelaton, which shows a lead mark if it comes in contact with the ball, will often be found useful in locating the ball. The Bontgen or X rays and the fluoroscope have been em- ployed with success to locate the po- sition of bullets embedded in the tis- sues. By exposing the part in which the ball is supposed to be lodged to these rays for a few minutes a skia- graph may be obtained by which the position of the bullet may be located. (Fig. 162.) All probing should be done with extreme gentleness ; this is espe- cially the case when the probe is passed into soft tissues, where the appli- cation of force might cause the probe to make a track for itself. Various Fig. 162. Skiagraph of ball embedded in metacarpal bone. (Leonard.)