GLANDERS. 54 Equine Varieties.—In the horse the disease appears in several forms. Acute glanders causes a necrotic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nose, suppurative cervical adenitis, and rapid septicaemia. Chronic glanders, with the same lesions but a more chronic course, is marked by ulcers in the nose, destroying even the bones, large cervical abscesses from the inflamed glands, and metastatic foci in the lungs or other internal organs, and also in the muscles and joints. Another form is known under the name of farcy, the disease beginning in the same way, but with the addi- tion of metastatic foci in the skin, which may break down and form extensive ragged ulcers, or may not break down so extensively, but a general enlarge- ment of the lymph-nodes may take place. Acute septicaemia may develop even in the chronic form and cause sudden death. Symptoms.—The usual point of entrance of the infection is the nasal mucous membi-ane, but it also occurs elsewhere, and it has been experi- mentally produced by rubbing the cultures on the skin, through the hair- follicles. In man the symptoms and course of the disease depend entirely upon the seat of infection. If it is external, a soft nodule forms in the skin and cellular tissue, which suppurates and produces a ragged ulcer with un- dermined edges. The ulcer may remain localized and even heal. More commonly the nearest lymphatic glands enlarge at once, for the disease spreads by means of the lymphatics and the bacteria are not found in the blood-vessels. Abscesses form in the glands, further metastasis occurs, and secondary foci may develop in any organ of the body. If infection takes place through the internal organs the disease may closely resemble acute miliary tuberculosis or typhoid fever in its general symptoms, and the diagnosis may be uncertain until an external focus appears. When, on the other hand, there are numerous external foci without any general symptoms, the disease is frequently mistaken for syphilis or local tuber- culosis. If the nasal mucous membrane is primarily involved, and in man this is not so invariably the case as in the horse, nodules appear and form ulcers, which may destroy the entire nose, as well as the hard and the soft palate, even in so short a time as a week. The constitutional symptoms also vary ; in some a condition of acute septicaemia develops at once, in others the signs of a general infection are absent, even although the glands are affected. Death may ensue in a few days in the acute cases, while in the chronic form recovery may take place after a course of many months. The chronic cases with well-localized lesions are the least dangerous, but acute symptoms have been known to develop suddenly in the course of a chronic case. Treatment.—But little can be done by treatment except the local removal of infected tissue, and if the local foci are not too extensive they should be excised, or incised and curetted or cauterized, either by the hot iron or by chemicals. In severe cases, however, complete eradication of the disease is impossible. The patient must be quarantined, and all dis- charges carefully burned. Experiments have been made with a serum con- taining the toxines (mallein) which is useful for diagnostic purposes, like tuberculin in tuberculosis, and may furnish a means of treatment in the future.