153 CHAPTER VIII. ASEPSIS AND ANTISEPSIS. The student or practitioner of to-day who witnesses the behavior of wounds, either accidental or inflicted by the surgeon, which have been sub- jected to the modern methods of wound treatment, cannot realize the very different course which such wounds pursued before antiseptic and aseptic methods were adopted : those only who saw the results of the old methods of wound treatment can fully appreciate the value of the new. Before the introduction of Lister's method of treating wounds, based upon Pasteur's investigations regarding the action of bacteria in producing fermentation, it was the rule in accidental and operative wounds to have profuse sup- puration, fever, pain, and in many cases such wound complications as septi- cemia, pyaemia, erysipelas, and hospital gangrene, and it is not remarkable, therefore, that the mortality following operative and accidental wounds was very high. The mortality in compound fractures from sepsis was for- merly very great, but by modern methods of wound treatment has been diminished to an insignificant percentage. Dennis records six hundred and eighty-one cases of compound fracture in which one death only was due to sepsis, a death-rate of less than one-sixth of one per cent. The same dimin- ished mortality has been found to follow amputations and other wounds, accidental or operative. Lister's method of wound treatment was largely based upon the idea that the infection of the wound occurred from contact with the air, which con- tained spores and germs, and his method of treatment was chiefly directed to their destruction. The air can be a medium of wound infection to a certain extent, for it has been demonstrated that dry air contains dust in which spores and bacteria are present in much larger numbers than in moist air, and such air coming in contact with an open wound deposits there numbers of bacteria, which may set up fermentative changes. Koch later demonstrated the fact that atmospheric microbes were chiefly of an innoc- uous character, and that wound infection was generally caused by bacteria or spores being brought in direct contact with the wound by the clothing and skin of the patient, the instruments and the hands of the surgeon and assistants, and unclean surgical dressings. It has been pointed out by Cheyne that the relative number of bacteria entering the tissues is an im- portant factor in producing suppuration and septic infection, for we know that bacteria may exist in an aseptic wound and yet the wound heal and remain aseptic, the antiseptic qualities of the blood-serum and the cell- activity in healthy tissues being sufficient to destroy or remove a certain number of micro-organisms, and suppuration or septic infection occurring