292 TARSOMETATARSAL AMPUTATION. Fig. 228. be felt (II), a line above this prominence indicating the articulation of the cuboid bone, which forms the outer boundary for Hey's or Lisfranc's amputation. Hemorrhage during tarso-metatarsal or tarsal amputations is controlled by the application of a tourniquet to the femoral artery, or, better, by the application of Esmarch's elastic strap to the fleshy part of the leg. Tarso-Metatarsal Amputation (Lisfranc's).—The incision for this amputation is a curved one, carried across the dorsum of the foot, from the base of the fifth to the base of the first metatarsal bone. The incision should involve the skin only, its centre lying half an inch or more below the centre of the line of the articulations, and it should begin and end at the sides of the foot at their junction with the sole. A plantar flap should be marked out by a curved incision crossing the sole of the foot near the articulations of the toes with the metatarsal bones, starting and ending at the same points as the dorsal incision. Having cut the dorsal flap as above described, it should be dissected back to the line of the articulations ; the tendons, muscular fibres, and fascia being di- vided, the joints between the tarsal and the meta- tarsal bones are next opened with a stout, narrow- bladed knife. Difficulty is sometimes experienced in opening the joint between the head of the second metatarsal bone and the second cuneiform bone, which occupies a position higher in the foot than the other articulations. The disarticu- lation may be facilitated by forcibly depressing the anterior portion of the foot. After all the joints have been opened, the plantar ligaments are divided, the knife is passed behind the ends of the metatarsal bones, and a plantar flap is cut from within outward, following the line of the incision previously marked out. (Fig. 228.) The plantar flap may be cut from with- out inward if preferred. The vessels requiring liga- tures are the dorsal and interosseous arteries and the plantar branch of the dorsalis pedis ; in the plantar flap the plantar digital branches of the external plantar, as well as the internal plantar artery, usually require the application of ligatures. Care should be taken that the dorsal incision is not carried too far back, or the joint between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones may be opened on the inner margin of the foot. The stump resulting from this amputation is a well-shaped and very useful one. (Fig. 229.) Tarso-Metatarsal Amputation (Hey's).—In this amputation a curved incision is made from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, across the dorsum of the foot, to the base of the first metatarsal bone. The line of incision and the steps of the amputation are similar to those in Lisfranc's amputation, with the exception that the projecting portion of the Lisfranc's amputation of the foot. Fig. 229. Stump after Lisfranc's am- putation. (Agnew.)