701 DIAGNOSIS OF FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. tected in the mouth, although it may reach the latter through the Eustachian tube or from a fissure opening in the sphenoidal cells. It would find its way to the nose from a fissure through the ethmoidal cells, but to reach the ear it must escape through a fracture involving both the internal auditory canal and the middle ear which has torn the dura mater or the arachnoid where they are prolonged into sheaths around the auditory nerve, and also ruptured the drum membrane. It has been asserted that cerebro spinal fluid may flow from the ear without a rupture of the tympanum, for frac- tures of the roof of the external auditory canal, or fractures through the middle ear which detached the soft parts from the bone without rupture and lacerated the lining of the canal more externally, might allow the escape of the fluid. Cerebro-spinal fluid is recognized by the large amount of salt which it contains and by its low percentage of albumin, which distinguishes it from blood-serum. The amount lost is sometimes very great, even as much as one thousand grammes ; as a rule, however, there is only just enough to moisten the pillow. It usually appears when the hemorrhage from the ear has ceased, although it may not escape for twenty-four hours. The flow may continue for ten days, but generally lasts only two or three. It is said to be increased by compression on the internal jugulars and by strong expiratory effort; and these facts may be useful in the diagnosis. If the tympanic membrane should not be ruptured the fluid would probably find its way to the pharynx by means of the Eustachian tube, when there would be great difficulty in recognizing it, and even in the nose it resem- bles the thin discharge from the Schneiderian membrane. The escape of cerebro-spinal fluid from the ear is one of the commonest and most reliable symptoms of fracture of the base of the skull. The fluid is usually clear, but may become serous or even purulent. It has been erroneously claimed by some that cases of fracture of the base with escape of cerebro-spinal fluid are always fatal, but Park has observed three cases in which recovery took place although the fluid became purulent. Fragments of brain-tissue often escape from the wound in cases of compound fracture of the skull, and they have occasionally been observed in the discharge from the ear and from the nose. A microscopic examina- tion of the fragments would settle the diagnosis in any suspicious case. Although the discharge of brain fragments indicates that the laceration of the brain-tissue has been tolerably extensive, it is by no means incompatible with life, for in many such cases recovery has taken place. Injury to the Nerves.—In fractures of the base important nerves may be divided or pressed upon and a limited paralysis produced on the same side as the injury, and the exact situation of the fissure may thus be deter- mined. Phelps was able to recognize a fracture passing through the Fallo- pian acpieduct from the presence of facial paralysis. Deafness, blindness, facial paralysis, and paralysis of the palatine, of the abducens, or of the oculo motor nerves have all been observed as the result of fracture of the base. Damage to the optic nerve behind the point of entrance of the artery causes late atrophy of the optic disk, but in front of that point it produces changes as immediate as those of embolism. Paralysis of the facial nerve may also develop immediately or late (from two to eight days after the