278 AMPUTATIONS OF THE METACARPAL BONES. gape. The lateral ligaments of the opposite side are next divided, and the disarticulation is completed. The wound resulting after disarticulation is represented in Fig. 201. To make the deformity less after disarticulating a finger at this joint, it has been recommended that the head of the metacarpal bone be also removed with bone forceps, so that the remaining metacarpal bones may come closer together; this has the disadvantage, however, of weakening the hand, and, as the head of the metacarpal bone in time atrophies to a certain extent, causing the gap between the fingers to be less marked, the procedure is not to be recommended. Amputations of the Metacarpal Bones.—The removal of the whole or a part of a metacarpal bone, with its corresponding- finger, may be required in consequence of in- jury or disease. The operation is done by making a dorsal incision, commencing at the carpal extremity of the metacarpal bone and carrying it forward to the knuckle ; at this point the direction of the knife is changed, and it is carried towards the interdigital cleft into the palm, where it joins a similar cut made upon the opposite side; the soft parts should next be dissected free from the dorsal and lateral aspects of the bone, and the liga- ments uniting the anterior extremity of the bone to the adjoining metacarpal bones should be divided, when the finger can be drawn backward, which raises the metacarpal bone from its bed and allows it to be detached from the soft parts connected with its anterior surface. In ampu- tating the metacarpal bones it is advisable to divide the bones, leaving the carpal ends in place in order to avoid opening the wrist-joint, except in the case of the first and fifth metacarpal bones, which do not communicate with the others and with the synovial sacs. In dividing or disarticulating the carpal ends of the bones, great care should be taken to avoid injury of the vessels of the palm. Amputations of the Thumb and its Metacarpal Bone.—In per- forming this amputation care should be taken to preserve the entire mass of muscles on the thenar aspect of the hand, to leave a surface against which the fingers may impinge. An incision is started at the junction of the metacarpal bone with the carpus, on the dorsal surface of the thumb, and is carried down through the web between the thumb and the forefinger. A corresponding incision is made upon the opposite side, which joins the first incision, and the bone is cleared and raised from its bed and is dis- articulated at its proximal extremity. (Fig. 202.) Another method of per- forming this amputation is to make first a dorsal incision and carry it down to the web between the thumb and the forefinger ; the palmar flap is then made by thrusting the knife upward to its point of entrance and cutting downward and outward. In amputating the right thumb with the meta- Fig. 201. Amputation of finger at metacarpopha- langeal joint. (After Rotter.)