497 FRACTURES OF THE FIBULA. the fragments are visually not much displaced, but the upper one may be drawn slightly upward by the biceps. Fracture of the upper end of the fibula may be complicated by injury of the popliteal nerve, or later impair- ment of the function of this nerve from its implication in the callus. Treatment.—The treatment of fracture of the upper end of the fibula consists in immobilization of the leg by the use of a fracture-box, and the same result may be secured by the application of a plaster of Paris bandage, which fixes the ankle and the knee. If displacement in the upper frag- ment is marked, from contraction of the biceps muscle, flexion of the knee before the application of the plaster of Paris dressing will often correct this deformity. Fracture of the Shaft of the Fibula.—The displacement in frac- tures of the shaft of the fibula usually consists in a tilting forward of the lower end of the upper fragment. This fracture can usually be recognized by the presence of pain, mobility, and crepitus. Treatment.—In the treatment of fractures of the shaft of the fibula we usually employ a fracture-box for a week, and, when the swelling has subsided, apply a plaster of Paris bandage, which fixes the ankle and the knee-joint; if little displacement is present, the knee need not be fixed. Fracture of the Lower End of the Fibula.—This is the most common fracture of the fibula: it is usually produced by indirect force, as by falls, and by twists of the foot causing extreme abduction or adduction, and is apt to lead to great deformity and subsequent disability. It is often described as Pott's fracture, which consists in a fracture occurring in the lower fifth of the fibula, with a laceration of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, and is usually accompanied by marked eversion of the foot. (Fig. 422.) With the fracture of the lower fifth of the fibula there may be associated a fracture of the inner edge of the tibia, as well as of the internal malleolus. Symptoms.—The deformity is very characteristic, consisting in an outward displacement of the foot and a marked prominence of the internal malleolus; the ankle-joint appears to be markedly widened, and there may be more or less dis- placement of the astragalus. ( Fig. 423.) The widening of the ankle results from separation of the mal- leoli, and occasionally from the as- tragalus being driven upward be- tween the tibia and the fibula. Treatment.—The most impor- tant point in the treatment of this fracture is to correct the displace- ment and prevent its recurrence. The fragments may be reduced by grasp- ing the leg firmly with one hand and the foot with the other and drawing 31 Fig. 422. Fig. 423. Fracture of the lower fifth of the fibula, Pott's fracture. (Agnew.) Pott's fracture with marked deformity.