FRACTURES OF THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 694 with paraffin and dropped from a height will show a depression upon the surface of the paraffin even if the blow is insufficient to produce any fissure in the bone, proving that the latter has sprung inward under the blow. In children the skull is so soft that depressions of considerable area, and even one centimetre or more deep, may be produced without any signs of fracture of the bone, the latter simply bending inward like a stiff elastic piece of parchment, and springing back into place when elevated without a trace of a fissure. The elasticity of the skull is further shown by the fact that fissures open widely and then spring shut, for hairs or fragments of clothing or other foreign objects may be driven into the fissure while open and then re- tained there, as is proved by certain specimens. (Fig. 635.) In one case (Von Bergmann) a fragment of a bullet was found in the brain, with no trace of a former opening in the skull to show how it entered. Contre-coup.—There has been much discussion as to the existence of fractures by contre-coup, by which is meant the occurrence of a fracture on the Trephine button of bone, opposite side of the skull from that on which the Rowing hair caught in fissured blow is received. The original theory of fractures fracture of the skull. ° J by contre-coup was that the motion and force of the blow radiated over the skull in different directions and met upon the oppo- site side, producing there so much commotion as to result in a fracture ; bnt this explanation is now generally rejected. Such fractures may take place, but they must be very rare, for the majority of fractures supposed to have occurred in this way can be otherwise explained. A large number of the cases of supposed fracture by contre-coup are nothing more than cases of the extension of fissures from the opposite side of the head. Many others are to be explained by the simultaneous receipt of a blow on the other side of the head ; thus, a man is struck upon the forehead, and the head is driven backward, so that the occiput strikes against a wall; or he is struck upon the vertex, and the spine resisting at the base produces a fracture at that point. A man struck on the head is apt to fall, and he might strike the other side of the head against the ground, or might fall upon the buttocks and the result- ing jar upon the spine prod ace a fracture at the base. The supposed frac- tures by contre-coup are more often found in the base than in other parts of the skull, because the vertex is more exposed to direct blows; but in the great majority of fractures of the base by contre-coup the fissures can be traced directly from the vertex. Fractures of the base do not differ much in the mechanics of their production from fractures of the vertex, but they are generally the result of indirect violence, except those produced by the penetration of bullets through the neck, or of bullets or pointed objects entering through the orbit, the nose, or the ear. The orbit is the usual seat of the latter injuries, and one of their peculiarities is the slight external mark of the injury, for a cane, a fencing-foil, or some such object may readily penetrate the fold of the conjunctiva or the upper lid, and the wound in the latter may be almost unnoticeable when the weapon has been withdrawn. Foreign bodies, such