856 TUMORS OF THE TRACHEA. worn continuously, but in some cases even these appliances may not be required. Thyrotomy with excision Of the growth, following a preliminary trache- otomy, is considered by some surgeons a more satisfactory procedure than excision of the larynx. When the growth is exposed it is carefully removed by dissecting it from the cartilaginous walls of the larynx, and the car- tilages are not removed, as they are usually not involved until late in the disease. The wound is closed with sutures, and the tracheotomy-tube should be worn for some weeks until the union in the laryngeal wound is complete. The voice in these cases may be preserved to a certain extent. Tumors of the Trachea.—The same varieties of tumors that are observed in the larynx may be found in the trachea, and, as in the larynx, papillomata and epitheliomata are those most commonly observed. Papil- lomata are usually pedunculated, while epitheliomata arise from the trachea by a broad base. They are generally situated at the upper portion of the trachea, and are most common in male adults. The principal symptom of tracheal tumor is dyspnoea without any marked affection of the voice. The latter symptom would point to the tumor's occupying the larynx rather than the trachea. In all cases a careful laryngoscopic examination should be made to prove that the growth does not occupy the larynx, and at the same time in many cases the tumor can be seen in the trachea. Treatment.—This consists in performing tracheotomy as soon as the position of the tumor can be located or dyspnoea becomes marked. After tracheotomy the tracheal wound should be dilated, and in many cases the growth can be removed, when its base should be touched with chromic acid or the actual cautery. The tracheotomy-tube should be worn for some time, until it is evident that there is no tendency for the recurrence of the growth, and should then be dispensed with. Tracheocele.—This consists of a hernia of the mucous membrane of the trachea between the tracheal rings, and may arise from a congenital defect in the trachea, or may follow subcutaneous rupture of the trachea from contusion or incomplete wound of the organ. The tumor may occupy the anterior or the lateral aspect of the trachea, and vary in size from that of a bean to that of an egg. The most marked symptom of this affection is the presence of a soft tumor which increases in size when the patient makes forced expiration with the mouth and nose closed, and can be diminished in size by manipulation ; a certain amount of dyspnoea and change in the voice may be present. Treatment.—If the tumor is small and is attended by no discomfort, no special treatment is required. If, however, it is large and produces discomfort or marked change in the voice, pressure should be applied by means of a compress and bandage, and if this is not followed by good results the tumor should be exposed and excised, and the edges of the tracheal wound and the external wound closed by sutures. FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-PASSAGES. The entrance of a foreign body into the larynx or trachea is an accident of frequent occurrence, and is most commonly observed in children. A body held in the mouth may suddenly be drawn into the larynx by an