1015 TREATMENT OF FISTULA IN ANO. if branching sinuses are present these should be freely opened up by inci- sions, and after curetting and irrigating them they should be loosely packed with strips of iodoform gauze. If the suppurating tract is a straight one, it may be thoroughly curetted, or the cicatricial tissue may be excised, and, after being irrigated, the deep portions of the wound, as well as the divided sphincter muscle, may be brought together by sutures. This method has recently been employed with success, but we think it should be practised only in selected cases, such as have just been mentioned, and that in the majority of cases the method of packing to secure healing of the wound from the bottom by granulation is the procedure most likely to be followed by a permanent cure. After-Treatment.—After packing or closing the wound with sutures, an opium suppository should be introduced into the rec- tum, and a pad of bi- chloride gauze and cot- ton placed over the wound and held in position by a T-bandage. The bowels should be kept quiet for three or four days, and then moved by a laxa- tive. The wound should be dressed at the end of the third day, and after the packing has been removed it should be irrigated and a few strips of iodoform gauze loosely packed in the wound, subsequent dressings being made in the same manner until the wound has healed, which usually requires several weeks. A single division of the sphincter is not apt to be followed by inconti- nence. In cases, however, in which two or more internal openings exist, or in a horseshoe fistula,! or where there are a number of external openings with a single internal opening, the greatest judgment must be exercised by the surgeon to obtain a satisfactory result as regards healing of the sinuses without the production of incontinence. When a number of sinuses exist with one internal opening, they should be laid open freely, and finally the sphincter and superimposed tissues should be divided. When a horseshoe fistula, with two or more openings into the rectum, exists, the incisions should be so planned that the sinuses shall be opened freely, and the sphincter muscle divided at one point only, corresponding to the opening of one of the sinuses (Fig. 813), for if the sphincter were divided at two points incontinence would be almost certain to follow. After all the sinuses have healed, with the exception of the one leading down to the second rectal opening, this can be divided with little risk of incontinence. In the treatment of blind internal fistula the incomplete fistula should be converted into a complete one by making an external opening at the lowest Fig. 812. Division of fistula in ano.