CHAPTER XL 243 PLASTIC SURGERY. This branch of surgery includes the operative procedures which are employed to repair defects in the various tissues of the body. The replace- ment of parts partly separated by injuries, as well as the readjustment of parts entirely severed, is also sometimes included under plastic surgery. Plastic operations are divided into heteroplastic operations, in which the defect is repaired by tissue taken not from the individual in whom the defect exists, but from another individual or one of the lower animals, and autoplastic operations, in Avhich the tissue to supply the defect is taken from the same individual. Plastic operations may be required for the repair of congenital defects, such as harelip, cleft palate, or exstrophy of the bladder, for defects result- ing from injuries or from the removal of tumors, or for the distortion and functional disturbance resulting from the contraction following injuries, burns, and ulceration consequent upon lupus and syphilis or other intrac- table forms of idceration. These operations may be indicated for the resto- ration of function, as is seen in cases of harelip, cleft palate, or contrac- tions about the joints. They are often indicated for cosmetic reasons, when they are employed to relieve deformities resulting from congenital defects, injuries, burns, or the abnormal development of certain parts of the body, as is seen in cases of hypertrophy of the nose, lips, and tongue, and of dis- placement or malformation of the ears. The tissue which is generally employed to repair defects is the skin with its subcutaneous tissue, or the superficial layers of the skin, as in skin-grafting, although other tissues, such as bone, bone chips, muscle, tendon, nerve, and mucous membrane, are sometimes used. The elements which conduce most to success in plastic operations are rigid care as regards asepsis, perfect control of hemorrhage, since the inter- position of a blood-clot may interfere with union, and avoidance of tension upon flaps, which can be secured by having the flaps of sufficient size. The flaps should be cut about one-third larger than the gap to be filled, to com- pensate for the subsequent shrinkage. A flap which is white in appearance after it has been transplanted is less likely to slough than one which is purple and congested; the latter is more apt to develop moist gangrene from venous obstruction. Choice of Time for Plastic Operations.—This depends largely upon the affection for the relief of which the operation is performed : the condition of the parts and the patient's general condition in these cases often call for the exercise of the best surgical judgment. In congenital