20 SUPPURATION—ABSCESS. intentional, seeing in it the essential part of inflammation. Metehnikoff thinks that the object of the emigration is to furnish a large number of cells which will take up any foreign substance, such as bacteria or sloughing tis- sues, or the dead cells of the organism which may have been killed by in- jury or subsequent inflammation. If the particles are small enough to be taken up by one cell, the latter may carry it away to the blood-vessels or lymphatics, or to some free surface where cell and contents will be thrown off, or it may digest the material it has collected and continue to live. He claims to have seen living bacteria taken up by such cells, with the result that in some cases the bacteria multiply in the cell and cause its death, while in others the bacteria are digested and destroyed. This he terms a war of cells, and looks upon inflammation as simply a nutritive process by which the tissues furnish the cells to drive out or neutralize the invaders. His theories command respect, but many able investigators still refuse un- qualified endorsement of them. Even if we cannot accept the doctrine of phagocytosis, there can be no doubt that the accumulation of wandering cells is useful in limiting the inflammatory action by filling up the lymph- spaces and blocking the lymphatics, and thus mechanically preventing any spread of the cause of the irritation. Suppuration.—Pus consists of a serum containing little or no fibrin and large numbers of cells resembling the multinuclear leucocytes described above. These cells are for the most part dead or dying, and represent the waste thrown off from the tissues as a result of the inflammatory action. A purulent inflammation or suppurative process is one which results in the production of pus. Abscess.—An abscess is a cavity which is formed in the tissues and con- tains pus. A collection of pus in one of the recognized anatomical cavities of the body is known as & pur ulent effusion or empyema. When pus is not contained in an abscess-cavity, but is diffused through the cellular inter- spaces of the subcutaneous or other tissues, the condition is spoken of as a purulent infiltration. The wall of an abscess consists of the tissue in which it happens to be situated, thickly infiltrated with cells, the layers nearest the abscess-cavity being formed of the cells alone, while in the outer layers the cells are seen to be less closely placed, and the structure of the original tissue becomes more evident as one passes outward, until normal tissues are reached, there being no distinct outer limit to the abscess-wall. Owing to the fact that the inner surface of the abscess often looks like mucous mem- brane, formed as it is of the small granulations made up of these cells, it was formerly often spoken of as a pyogenic membrane, a term which has now deservedly passed out of use, for this lining is in no sense a membrane, nor does it produce the pus. An abscess grows by addition to its cellular contents from the softening and loosening of the cellular infiltration about it, under the action of the pus itself, which has peculiar solvent properties, the infiltration spreading on the outer limits, while the most infiltrated tissues on the side towards the cavity are constantly breaking down. Sloughing.—Inflammation may be accompanied by sloughing or death of the tissue. Gangrene, mortification, necrosis, or sphacelus is a death of the tissues from any cause. The part which has died is designated as a