598 DISLOCATIONS OF THE TARSAL BONES. from a height, the weight of the body striking upon one foot. The as- tragalus may be completely driven from between the malleoli, or may be only partially displaced. Treatment.—In these dislocations the most sat- isfactory method of treatment consists in enlarging the wound and excising the displaced bone, and after the removal of the bone the foot should be placed at a right angle to the bones of the leg, a copious antiseptic or sterilized gauze dressing should be applied, and the ankle fixed for a few weeks by the application of a binders' board splint or a plaster of Paris dressing. Dislocation of the OS Calcis.—This bone is very rarely dislocated, but may be separated from the astragalus above and from the cuboid bone in front. Symptoms.—The symptoms are distortion of the heel and in- ability to abduct or adduct the foot. This dislocation usually results from falls upon the heel, or from force applied to the bone at the side of the foot. Treatment.—The displacement is not difficult of recognition, and should be treated by first anaesthetizing the patient and then relaxing the muscles and reducing the displacement by manipulation. Dislocation of the Scaphoid.—This dislocation is also extremely rare, and can be recognized by its projection on the anterior surface of the foot. Treatment.—It is reduced by manipulation, by making traction upon the metatarsus, at the same time pressing the bone back into its normal position. After reducing the displacement the foot should be fixed with a binders' board splint or with a plaster of Paris dressing. Dislocation of the Cuboid.—The cuboid bone has been dislocated in connection with displacements of other bones of the tarsus, but no cases of independent luxation of this bone have been recorded. From the position of the bone, if this dislocation occurred there would be little difficulty in recognizing the nature of the injury. Dislocation of the Cuneiform Bones.—The cuneiform bones may be dislocated separately, or the three bones may be dislocated together. The internal cuneiform bone is the one most liable to dislocation. There is a prominence on the inner border of the foot, consisting of one or more of the bones. The dislocation is reduced by carrying the metatarsal bones outward when the ankle is fixed, so as to increase the space between the scaphoid and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. After this is done the displaced bones should be pressed into place, and the foot and ankle fixed by the application of a moulded splint or a plaster of Paris bandage. Dislocation of the Metatarsal Bones.—Dislocations of the meta- tarsal bones are not common, but are occasionally seen. The direction of the dislocation may be upward, downward, or lateral. They may result from falls or from the foot being caught and twisted between heavy weights. Symptoms.—The symptoms in these dislocations are a prominence upon either the dorsal or the palmar aspect of the foot, and shortening of the toes corresponding to the displaced bones. Treatment.—The reduction is effected by making traction upon the displaced bone from the toe and at the same time pressure" over the end of the bone. After reduction a compress should be applied over the seat of the displacement, and the foot fixed by a splint or a plaster of Paris bandage.