CONTUSION OF THE BRAIN. 706 Contusion of the Brain.—The anatomical changes produced in the brain by contusion consist of small capillary hemorrhages, and the brain looks red and oedematous and feels pulpy and softened. If infection from without takes place, the contused tissue breaks down, but otherwise it rarely forms an abscess, for, although it is possible for bacteria carried by the circu- lating blood to infect the injured tissues and produce an abscess, this is a very rare occurrence. Contusion may be the direct effect of the blow, which may drive the skull inward upon the brain, and a fatal injury may follow such a blow even without fracture, owing to the elasticity of the bone. Con- tusion has been seen as the result of contre-coup, and it is supposed by some that a severe blow might drive the soft brain from one side of the skull to the other, so as to cause even greater injury to it there than upon the side struck by the blow. Others, however, prefer the explanation that the distal injury occurs because it is in the line of the direction of the force, as in the experiments with glass just referred to. Laceration of the brain, if extensive, appears like any other brain wound, and slight laceration is shown by the existence of minute multiple capillary hemorrhages. Laceration and hemorrhage in the brain have also been found as the result of contre-coup. Symptoms.—Clinically we may group under one heading these four conditions, pure concussion, slight contusion, multiple minute lacerations, and capillary hemorrhages, for the symptoms are so much alike that it is impossible to distinguish them. The grade of the symptoms depends upon the number of the minute lesions—that is, it depends upon the extent of the damage to the brain. The patient is found in a drowsy, relaxed con- dition, pale, with superficial respiration, the pulse small and beating from 100 to 120 to the minute. The symptoms closely resemble those of shock, except the unconsciousness, which is more marked than in shock. Vomit- ing is generally present, but only of the contents of the stomach, and usually ceases when that organ has been emptied. There is no true paralysis, even of sensation, but the bladder and rectum may be evacuated unconsciously on account of the relaxation of the sphincters. The pupils may be contracted or dilated, or unequal, but they react to light. In severe cases the vitality of the patient seems suspended, and it may be impossible to arouse him; the respiration is irregular, superficial, sighing, and may be of the Cheyne- Stokes variety ; the pulse is feeble, but may remain slow ; copious perspira- tion appears ; vomiting may be persistent, and convulsions may occur. The temperature in these cases is subnormal, becoming normal on recovery, and occasionally there is a reaction to 101° F. (38° C), or even 103° F. (39.5° C), and vomiting may then take place. This stage of reaction may be marked by great irritability, delirium, or mental disturbance which may last for days or weeks, or even permanently. In some cases there is nervous excite- ment from the beginning, the patient crying out and throwing the body and limbs about, although he appears unconscious of his surroundings. He may lie quietly upon his side with his knees drawn up, and may resist with a show of anger any attempt to change his position. This cerebral irritability (Erichsen) is most frequently found with slight laceration of the brain.