TTJMOKS OF THE GUMS. 768 formity. (Fig. 681.) The reputation for malignancy which these tumors have obtained is probably due to the fact that in the early stage it is impos- sible clinically to distinguish them from sarcomata. The cases in which recurrence occurred after removal were in all proba- Fig. 681. bility cases of sarcoma. Sarcomata of the Gums.—These growths may occur at any age, and have been observed in infants. They originate from the muco-periosteum, and are usually of the round- or the spindle-cell variety. They may occur in either the upper or the lower gums, and project into the space between the cheeks and the teeth, or towards the palate; they grow rapidly, pro- ducing displacement of the teeth and marked change in the shape of the alveolar process of the jaw, and, if Epulis of the lower jaw. of considerable size, may protrude from the mouth. Epithelioma of the Gums.—This growth origi- nates in the mucous membrane covering the alveolar processes of the jaws, and is more frequent in the lower than in the upper jaw. The disease may start in the root of a carious tooth, or in a leucoplakic patch, and infiltrate the gum and extend to the floor of the mouth or cheeks, when the underlying bone soon becomes eroded. The lymphatic glands of the neck are involved early in the disease, and usually become very much enlarged. This affection runs a rapid course unless arrested by surgical treatment, and death results from septic pneumonia, or from exhaustion consequent upon the pain, the hemorrhage, and the difficulty in taking sufficient food. Papillomata of the Gums.—This affection is not a serious one ; the papillary growths originating from the gums present the characteristic appearance of papilloma in other parts, and the affection is of especial in- terest only from the fact that it may be confounded with epithelioma. The slow growth, absence of pain, and the lack of glandular involvement serve to distinguish it from the latter affection. Treatment.—The treatment of fibroma of the gums, or epulis, consists in free removal of the growth and of the root of the diseased tooth, together with a portion of the bone to which it is attached. This is best accom- plished by removing one or more teeth and then excising a portion of the alveolar process of the jaw in conjunction with the tumor. Eemoval in this manner is seldom followed by a recurrence of the affection. In cases of sarcoma or epithelioma of the gums the diseased structures should be freely removed, together with a portion of the underlying bone, and, if the growths have not attained too large a size, the operation can be done within the mouth. The removal of these growths is, however, usually soon followed by recurrence, which, if it involves the jaw, may call for a still more ex- tensive operation. The more promptly they are removed, the better is the chance of delaying recurrence of the disease and giving the patient a con- siderable period of relief from suffering. Papillary growths of the gums in persons beyond middle life should be removed as early as possible, as such growths by constant irritation may become epitheliomatous.