TREATMENT OF SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. 331 Treatment of Capillary Hemorrhage.—This form of bleeding is usually spontaneously arrested by the exposure of the surface of the wound to the air, but when this does not occur and the amount of blood that escapes is considerable, its control becomes a matter of importance. Capil- lary bleeding may be arrested by pressure, employed by means of sterilized sponges or gauze pads, which are firmly packed into the wound and allowed to remain for a few minutes. One of the best means of arresting capillary bleeding, however, is the use of hot water or a hot bichloride solution at a temperature of 120° to 150° F. (60° to 65° 0.) ; the water should not be used at a higher temperature than this, as damage to the tissues may result. In capillary bleeding the employment of a five per cent, antipyrin solution also acts well. If hot water fails to control the bleeding, the wound should be firmly packed with strips of sterilized or antiseptic gauze. This dressing is also frequently used to control hemorrhage from mucous cavities, such as the mouth, nose, rectum, vagina, or uterus. The packing should not be removed too soon, but should be allowed to remain for from three to six days, and can at this time be removed without fear of the recurrence of the bleeding. Treatment of Parenchymatous Hemorrhage.—The amount of blood lost in this variety of hemorrhage is often very great, and its control is sometimes a matter of difficulty. Pressure applied as for the control of capillary hemorrhage, or hot water, may arrest the bleeding ; if this fails to check it, the actual cautery or Paquelin's cautery at a dull red heat may be applied with satisfactory results ; or in other cases the application of a few deep sutures of catgut or silk, including the tissues, to the depth of the wound, may control the bleeding. In wounds of the liver, spleen, kidney, or tongue, and in tissues whose vascularity is increased by the presence of new growths, bleeding is best arrested by the careful application of sterilized sutures. Treatment of Secondary Hemorrhage.—Profuse secondary arte- rial hemorrhage is usually preceded by the occurrence of one or more slight hemorrhages, which may recur at intervals of a few hours or days ; the amount of blood lost at these times may be slight, but their occurrence should always excite the suspicion of the surgeon, and he should have the patient carefully watched by a skilled attendant who is competent to act in case the bleeding becomes excessive. Elevation of temperature and a feeling of tension in the wound, caused by effusion of blood around the artery, are symptoms which often precede secondary hemorrhage. In arteries ligated in their continuity, the bleeding often arises from the distal side of the ligature ; this has been accounted for by the facts that the distal clot is less in extent and is slower in forming than the proximal clot, and that the ligature diminishes the vitality of the vessel-walls immediately below the seat of the ligature by obstructing the vasa vasorum, or the ob- struction in the capillaries below the seat of the ligature may be greater than that in the anastomosing vessels, and the blood-pressure may therefore be greater in the vessel at the distal than at the proximal side of the ligature. As soon as it is evident that secondary hemorrhage has occurred, prompt