NECEOSIS OF BONE. 527 by granulation and contraction occurs, and, to secure this object, if the cavity is a deep one the overhanging edges of bone should be removed with a gouge, to allow the soft parts to be drawn in to fill up the cavity. In all operations upon tuberculous bone the more thorough the operation the more likely is complete healing of the wound to occur. NECROSIS. This term is synonymous with mortification or death of bone, and cor- responds to gangrene in the soft parts. In this condition a considerable portion of bone has lost its vitality and remains in the tissues as a foreign body or sequestrum. The causes producing necrosis of bone have been previously described : they are mechanical violence, which may completely separate a portion of bone and cut off its nutrition, as is sometimes seen in compound and gunshot fractures, and more commonly in infective or specific inflammation of bone, such as osteomyelitis, and tubercular or syphilitic inflammation. Pyogenic infection is the most prolific cause of necrosis, for even in traumatic separation of bone the detached portion may maintain its vitality and regain attachments to the living bone if pyogenic infection of the wound does not take place. The same is true in cases of syphilitic necrosis, which is generally due to pyogenic infection of a syphilitic inflam- mation of bone. Exposure to the fumes of phosphorus produces necrosis of the jaws. Exanthematous necrosis involving the jaw is often seen after scar- let fever and measles. It is probable, however, that in the case of phosphorus necrosis the irritating cause is the fumes of phosphorus, and that the subse- quent necrosis results from an infective osteomyelitis ; while in the case of exanthematous necrosis there is little doubt that the death of bone results from osteomyelitis caused by specific and pyogenic organisms. Symptoms.—The condition of necrosis is preceded by the symptoms of inflammation of bone : when the bone is actually dead few symptoms are present. The devitalized bone usually is more or less surrounded by a case of new bone which has developed from the periosteum, and the cavity of which communicates with one or more sinuses which lead to openings upon the skin. More or less granu- lation-tissue lines the cavity, and a little pus is generally discharged from the sinuses. The presence of a consider- able portion of dead bone can be recognized by passing a probe through the sinus, when it comes in contact with the roughened bone. If the sequestrum is loose, it can be moved by pressure with the probe. (Fig. 447.) When this condition exists, the operation for the removal of the se- questrum—sequestrotomy—offers the best means of securing permanent healing of the sinuses. Where a small sequestrum exists, it may be loosened by the underlying granulations and escape through a sinus, or may be macerated and broken up and escape in small pieces. This spontaneous extrusion of a sequestrum is, however, not likely to occur except in the case of a very small sequestrum, and a period of years is often required for its accomplishment. Fig. 447. Necrosis of hu- merus, with exposed sequestrum. (Ag- new.)