CHONDROMA. OS and foot- (Fig. 58). They are also common in the jaws. Chonclromata growing from the costal or the nasal cartilages are usually small. Chon- droma is also observed in the parotid, the breast, the testis, the ischio-rectal space, and the subcutaneous tissue, but it is seldom pure, being usually a part of the mixed tumors in the salivary glands or associated with sarcoma. The occurrence of pure chondromata in these regions is to be ascribed to misplaced foetal remains, those in the parotid being derived from the ear or the branchial clefts. Chondromata are frequently multiple, and in some rare cases they are present in immense numbers, distorting the limbs and the jaws, displacing the eyes, and producing deformities which not only render the patient helpless, but may terminate his life. Clinical Appearance.—The tumors are usually small, although they may attain a huge size. They form hard, rounded, smooth, or lobulated Fig. 56. Enchondroma from the knee-joint, x 300. (Agnew.) masses, fixed to their point of origin, but without attachment to the sur- rounding parts. They grow slowly without pain or other symptoms except such as may be caused by their bulk or pressure, and they often become stationary. If they grow in the pelvis they may interfere with parturition; Spontaneous fracture may occur in the shaft of a long bone which has be- come atrophied by the pressure of a chondroma. When inflamed, necrosis and sloughing are apt to follow. Besides being liable to calcification and ossification, a chondroma may undergo gelatinous softening and become cystic. It also becomes sarcomatous in some cases. After an injury to a bone, for instance, a chondroma may appear and develop with some rapidity, and on removal it may return, and finally become sarcomatous in structure and form secondary tumors in the lung or elsewhere. Secondary deposits in the lymph-nodes and in the lungs are, however, sometimes seen in the true chondromata growing from bone. Multiple chondromata are