277 METACARPOPHALANGEAL AMPUTATIONS. Fig. 198. bone-cutting forceps. Amputations in the contiguity are performed by making a short posterior flap, opening the joint, and then making a long anterior flap. (Fig. 198.) In disarticulations of the phalanges the position of the joint may always be recognized by re- membering that when the finger is flexed the knuckle is the upper boundary of the articula- tion. (Fig. 199.) In amputating the fingers very little hemorrhage occurs, and the bleed- ing may be satisfactorily controlled by an as- Fig. 199. Amputation of finger by long anterior flap. (After Esmarch.) Position of phalangeal joints. (Smith.) Fig. 200. sistant making digital compression upon the radial and ulnar arteries, or a rubber drainage-tube maybe wrapped several times around the wrist, which will satisfactorily control the bleeding. After the finger has been re- moved the digital arteries usually require the application of ligatures, or, if hemorrhage is not free from these vessels, the surgeon may control bleeding from them by the stitches which hold the flaps in apposition. After con- trolling the bleeding, the flaps are brought together by sutures applied at three or four points ; a gauze dressing is then applied to the stump, and the hand should be placed upon a palmar splint to keep the parts absolutely at rest. At the end of a week or ten days union is usually complete, and all dressings may be dispensed with. Amputations of the Phalanges of the Thumb are performed in the same manner as amputations of those of the fingers. Metacarpophalangeal Amputations.—In amputating at the metacarpo-phalangeal joints the hand should be placed in the pronated position, and the sound fingers should be held out of the way by an assistant; the surgeon then grasps the injured finger, and, entering the point of the knife directly in front of the middle of the knuckle, carries it at once to the bone, making his incision directly forward for a short distance, then diverging to one side and passing through the interdigital cleft to the palm. A similar cut is made on the opposite side, the two incisions ... „ „ „ . Incision for metacarpo-pha- unitmg on the palmar surface of the finger opposite langeai amputation. (Agnew.) the point of starting. (Fig. 200.) The lateral aspect of the joint is next opened by the point of the knife, the finger being carried strongly to the opposite side, to make the ligaments tense and the articulation