FAT EMBOLISM. 142 ever, not often that alcohol has to be resorted to in these cases. In some cases in which quiet cannot be obtained by these means, a blister applied to the nape of the neck will be followed by marked amelioration of the symp- toms. If under the treatment of sedatives and nourishing food sleep is obtained, the nervous symptoms usually disappear rapidly and convales- cence is soon established. We have seen patients who developed de- lirium tremens after injuries, the acute symptoms having subsided, and who were taking nourishment fairly, develop a condition of mental disturb- ance, characterized by mild delirium, hallucinations, insomnia, restless- ness, and tendency to get out of bed, this condition being always more marked at night than during the day; this affection we have seen persist for some weeks and finally end in recovery. The treatment which we have found most satisfactory is the administration of one-twentieth of a grain of nitrate of strychnine three times a day and a full dose of bromide of potassium and chloral at night. FAT EMBOLISM. This is an affection which has recently attracted much attention, occur- ring as a complication of injuries and inflammatory conditions of the bones, and after contusions of parts rich in adipose tissue. Fat is present in the urine after fractures of the bones, either simple or compound, in two forms, as fluid fat and as an emulsion. Scriba demonstrated the presence of fat in the urine from two to four days after the injury in eighty per cent, of cases of bone injury, including simple and compound fractures, operations upon bone, and inflammatory condition of the bones; he found it present in ninety per cent, of fractures alone. Halm found it present in twenty-eight per cent, and Eiedel in forty-two per cent, of the cases examined, but both of these observers failed to recognize the emulsified form, which is the more common. Boyd and Horsley, in a similar investigation, found its presence in the urine exceptional. The affection known as fat embolism results from the absorption of fluid fat or oil-globules from the crushed cancellated structures and marrow of the bones, or from other adipose tissue, which enters the circulation and is carried to the heart, and then to the pulmonary capillaries, giving rise to embolism of these vessels ; the fat may also reach the capillaries of the brain and spinal cord. In the majority of cases the fat is probably disposed of in the liver and kidneys. Symptoms.—The affection usually develops suddenly from forty-eight to seventy-two hours after the injury, but may occur at a much later period. It is characterized in mild cases by restlessness, slight dyspnoea, and in- creased rapidity of the pulse; these symptoms may last for a few hours and gradually subside. In more severe cases there are developed marked dyspnoea, cedema of the lungs, frothy and bloody expectoration, cyanosis, delirium, and coma, usually leading to a fatal termination. Treatment.—The treatment of fat embolism complicating fractures, when actually developed, consists in the administration of digitalis and strychnine to sustain the action of the heart; digitalis is especially indicated