COMPRESSION OF NERVES. 399 Fig. 302 Fig. 303. there is loss of both motor and sensory power, the prognosis is bad. In severe contusions there may be complete destruction of the nerve-fibres at the point of injury. Treatment.—In cases of slight contusion of nerves no special treatment is indicated: the part should be kept at rest, and anodyne lotions applied, and usually in a short time the motor and sensory functions will be re- stored. In cases where there is little disturbance of the sensory function, with marked impairment of the motor function, rest and the use of massage and galvanism will usually be fol- lowed by improvement in a few weeks. In cases where there is complete loss of power, both motor and sensory, following contusion of a nerve, and improvement does not occur after a month or two under the employment of massage and galvanism, it may be necessary to expose the nerve at the point of injury, excise the injured por- tion, and unite the ends of the nerve by sutures. Compression Of Nerves.—Compression of nerves may occur in various ways, and may result from the press- ure of external objects, from malignant tumors or aneu- risms, from displaced bones in fractures or dislocations, from inflammatory exu- dates or pus, or from the implication of a nerve in scar-tissue. The pa- ralysis of the arm from pressure on the brachial plexus following the use of crutches is not an uncommon occurrence, and may also result from pressure on the brachial plexus in the axilla by enlarged glands in car- cinoma of the breast. Pressure on nerves from the displaced bones in fractures or dislocations may give rise to marked symptoms. The musculo- spiral nerve is not infrequently affected in fractures of the humerus. (Fig. 303.) Paralysis of the parts supplied by this nerve has occurred from the use of Esmarch's tube applied tightly to control hemorrhage. Pain and loss of motor function in the sciatic nerve are also occasionally observed in cases of growths or abscess in the pelvis. Paralysis of the nerves of the arm from pressure often occurs during heavy sleep, especially a drunkard's sleep. Pressure from involvement of a nerve in a scar or callus, if sensory fibres be involved, is manifested by pain, while the implication of motor fibres will be followed by muscular weakness or paralysis. In cases of paralysis from pressure upon nerves, the effects are generally slowly developed; sensory symptoms are first manifested by tingling, are usually earliest developed, i Paralysis following contusion of the external popliteal nerve. Wrist-drop following involvement of the musculo-spiral nerve in fracture of the humerus.