FRACTURES OF THE UPPER THIRD OF THE FEMUR. 483 violence applied to the trochanter; there is more or less swelling and bruising of the tissues in this region, and on comparing the injured tro- chanter with its fellow it will be found that it is much broader, and rotation is limited. Diagnosis.—The injury which is most apt to be confounded with frac- ture of the neck of the femur, either extracapsular or intracapsular, is posterior dislocation of the femur. Fracture of the neck of the femur is usually produced by trivial force or by force applied directly to the tro- chanter. Posterior dislocation usually results from great force applied to the knee while the thigh is adducted. Fracture of the neck of the femur occurs most commonly after fifty years of age and most frequently in females; posterior luxation of the femur is more likely to occur in adult males before fifty years of age. In fracture the limb is markedly everted, unless there be impaction, and in dislocation inversion and adduction of the thigh are present. The shortening in fracture is at first trivial, and may be from one inch to two inches. In posterior dislocation the shortening is often three or four inches. In fracture the shortening can be reduced by extension, but recurs on the removal of the extending force. In dislocation, when the shortening is reduced by replacing the bone, on the removal of the extending force it does not recur. In fracture there is great mobility, while in dislocation the limb is fixed and rigid. Crepitus may often be obtained in fracture ; in dislocation there is no true crepitus. Treatment.—The treatment of extracapsular fractures is similar to that for intracapsular fractures. Fracture of the Great Trochanter.—This consists in a separation of the great trochanter from the shaft of the femur, and usually results from direct violence, such as falls upon this portion of the bone. In patients under eighteen years of age the injury may consist in a separation of the epiphysis. Symptoms.—The most marked symptoms will be swelling in the region of the trochanter, pain, tenderness, and mobility of the fragments elicited by manipulation ; crepitus also may be obtained. There will be no shortening of the thigh, and movements of the hip may be but slightly impaired. Treatment.—The treatment consists in fixation of the limb by the use of sand-bags ; if there is pain from contusion of the joint produced at the time of the injury, this may be relieved by the application of the extension apparatus, such as is employed in cases of fracture of the neck of the femur. Fractures of the Upper Third of the Femur.—These fractures are often accompanied by marked deformity, and their treatment is difficult, owing to the fact that the upper fragment is often displaced forward and upward by the action of the psoas and iliacus internus muscles, or outward by the action of the gluteus minimus, obturator internus, and quadratus femoris muscles. (Fig. 405.) The greatest difficulty experienced in the treatment of these fractures arises from this displacement of the upper frag- ment, which may lead to marked shortening, angular deformity, and conse- quent impairment of the use of the limb. Treatment.—In the treatment of fractures of the upper third of the femur, in the majority of cases the dressing which will be described for frac-