EPISPADIAS. 1069 sition of the urethral opening. First, the glandular form, which is the light- est grade, and consists in a defect limited to the glandular urethra only, the meatus being situated just behind the glans. Secondly, the penoscrotal form, in which the defect extends to the penile portion, which is usually completely absent if wanting at all, and the urethra then ends at the peno- scrotal j unction. Thirdly, the perineal form (Fig. 827), in which the scrotum is split and the floor of that portion of the urethra is absent, the canal then opening in the perineum just in front of the membranous urethra, which is never involved in the deformity. In very rare cases the urethra is properly formed anteriorly, and only the middle portion of the canal is deficient, but, as a rule, the urethral floor is wanting from the unnatural meatus to the end of the penis. The glandular variety is very common, but the severer forms are rare. Hypospadias is rare in the female, the urethra then being repre- sented by a groove, or there being no trace of it, the urine passing directly into the vagina from the neck of the bladder, which is usually deficient in sphincter action. Epispadias, the roof of the urethra being absent, is often associated with exstrophy of the bladder. The corpora cavernosa are not in contact in this deformity, and lie side by side, separated by the groove which represents the urethra. Epispadias is also present in three grades—the glandular, the penile, and the complete, the sphincter of the bladder being divided in the last. Epispadias is, however, almost always complete, only three cases of the glandular form being on record, contrary to the rule in hypospadias, which is usually seen in the glans. Epispadias is a rare condition, but in the female it is about as common as hypospadias, and in that sex is always associated with exstrophy of the bladder. The extreme grades of these deformities, and especially of epispadias, are associated with marked lack of development of the penis, and often with undescended testes, so that the sex of the individual is often uncertain- Many cases of so-called hermaphroditism are instances of extreme hypospa- dias in the male. In both hypospadias and epispadias the foreskin shares the deformity and hangs like an apron, in the one case above the glans, in the other case below it. The milder forms of hypospadias are of little clin- ical consequence, except so far as they affect the individual mentally, because the opening is sufficiently far forward to allow of comfortable urination and a satisfactory deposit of the semen in coition. In the higher grades of the deformity the semen would not be deposited in the vagina, and the indi- vidual would be sterile. In perineal hypospadias the individual must sit like the female in making water. These males are often deficient in sexual power or are sexual perverts, preferring to play the female in coition, although some are capable of performing both parts. Treatment.—Both these conditions "are remedied by plastic operations, the general plan of which is similar. The operations are quite difficult, and union often fails, so that repeated attempts may be necessary for success. To form the glandular urethra a deep incision is made into the substance of the glans on each side of the urethral furrow, and a stiff catheter about 15 French in size is laid between these cuts, so as to compress the tissues and deepen the urethral groove, while the outer edges of the wounds on each