737 CARCINOMA OF THE LIP. Carcinoma is one of the most frequent tumors of the face, certainly the most frequent in adults. It usually develops in the skin, and has the characteristics of epithelioma of the .skin elsewhere, being of slow growth, and attacking and infecting the glands late, sometimes growing for ten, fif- teen, or twenty years, and causing extensive destruction. The mildest form of epithelioma is that known by the name of rodent ulcer, or Jacob's ulcer, which tends to heal in some parts while spreading in other directions, and has a tendency to contraction in its base, so that the ulcer does not spread rapidly, and the surrounding skin is drawn in around it, making folds and wrinkles. Even the microscopic appearances are deceptive, but true epithe- lial " nests" can be found if a proper search be made. Epithelioma of the skin in this region is very apt to develop from a seborrhcea, a chronic in- flammation of the sebaceous glands, which forms a thickened patch in the superficial part of the skin from a quarter of an inch to an inch in diameter, covered with a dry, scaly secretion resembling dandruff. The first signs of the change to epithelioma are an increased thickening of the skin and a ten- dency to ulceration, and when these appear the entire patch should be ex- cised. Epithelioma developing in these glands may be multiple, appearing at the same time in different parts of the face. Treatment.—Epithelioma of the face requires complete extirpation. Although this may be done with caustics or the cautery, the knife is the only satisfactory agent. If the tumor is very small (less than half an inch in diameter), the incision may be made one-quarter of an inch from the nearest evidence of disease, but if it be of considerable size, half an inch of sound skin should be sacrificed on all sides. The gap in the skin can be filled by a plastic operation or by Thiersch's skin-grafts. Carcinoma of the Lip.—Cancer of the lip is a disease almost exclu- sively limited to men, particularly to those who lead out-door lives exposed to the weather, and the smoking of a short pipe appears to be a frequent ex- citing cause. It may also originate in neglected ulcers of the lip following some trifling scratch, or herpes. It is almost invariably an epithelioma. The disease is more unfavorable in the lower lip, for when it occurs in the upper lix> it is very often in the form of an ordinary epithelioma of the skin, and extends to the mucous membrane secondarily. Epithelioma of the lip is rare in women, but when it does occur in them it is quite as likely to appear in the upper lip as in the lower. Clinical Varieties.—The disease appears in several different types. It may begin as a very chronic ulcer, with an indurated base, causing little annoyance. In other cases it first appears as a fissure of the lip, extending quite deeply into the tissues and not spreading much on the surface, and this form usually grows more rapidly. Another variety is a sprouting papillo- matous growth, which tends to rise above the level of the lip, but does not, as a rule, attack the tissues below the mucous membrane. A fourth form appears as a thickened patch in the mucous membrane, which has very little tendency to ulceration, and may remain quiescent for a long time. The lym- phatic glands are involved rather late in epithelioma of the lip, and in ex- amining for them it is well to insert the finger and press on the floor of the mouth, while the other hand feels beneath the chin, for very small glands 47