ERYSIPELATOID LYMPHANGITIS. 48 brought on by exposure to cold, but undoubtedly marking the fresh infection of some chronic open lesion in the mouth, ear, or air-passages, naturally taking place whenever the vital resistance of the individual is depressed by any cause. Erysipelatoid Lymphangitis of Rosenbach.—The "erysipelatoid" disease described by Rosenbach is due to a special micro-organism, growing like the cladothrix, supposed to be a mycelium-producing fungus. The dis- ease resembles the light cases of facial erysipelas clinically, although it is almost invariably found upon the hands, and is probably a lymphangitis. It is most often seen in persons engaged in handling meat, and especially fish, in the market or kitchen, and is probably associated with some peculiar form of early decomposition in these substances. The point of infection can generally be found in some slight scratch or abrasion, or a hang-nail. Be- ginning from this as a centre, the infection spreads slowly over one finger, and over the dorsum or palm of the hand and wrist, but seldom extends for any great distance. It is marked by a rosy flush, with sharply limited edges, although there is little or no oedema. It heals at one side and spreads in the way characteristic of erysipelas, but exceedingly slowly. There is usually little pain, although in some cases a rather severe burning sensa- tion is felt in the skin, and general disturbance is absent, the temperature seldom reaching 100° F. (38° C). The disease seems to be self-limited, and runs its course in from ten to fifteen days, gradually fading out, first in the oldest parts, finally at the advancing edge. This form of infection is undoubtedly the same as that known to the older generation as a "run- around," although this name was also given to a vesicular inflammation, while in the true erysipelatoid no vesicles or pustules are ever produced, and after recovery there is seldom, if ever, any scaling of the epidermis. Treatment.—Isolation.—The first essential in the care of any erysipe- latous inflammation is to isolate even the milder cases from any possi- bility of spreading to persons with wounds or ulcers, infants, and parturient women. Even the mildest cases of facial erysipelas, occurring in indi- viduals who have had the disease so often as to consider it of no greater im- portance than a cold in the head, are capable of exciting the most vigorous septic form of the disease if inoculated in others who are more susceptible to the poison. In these mild cases, occurring in families in which there are no such especially disposed persons, an absolute quarantine is not necessary if due care is taken to avoid actual contact with the affected individual, to keep the inflamed part well covered, to disinfect the hands thoroughly after changing the dressings, and to destroy the latter by fire. In the virulent cases, however, no precautions can be too great, and the attendants must watch their own hands with the greatest care in order to avoid infection through some unnoticed lesion. Any one having a wound or an ulcer should abstain from actual handling of the patient, for the infection is one of the most powerful and insidious known. Local Applications.—The milder cases, especially the erysipelatoid of Rosenbach, appear to be self-limited, and would probably recover without any treatment—a fact which makes it difficult to estimate the value of the various methods of treatment which have been recommended. There ap-