755 ACUTE GLOSSITIS. where it rests upon the teeth ; the portion of the organ which is permanently prolapsed becomes dry and brown. (Fig. 672.) Treatment.—As long as the hypertrophy of the organ is moderate it causes little inconvenience, but when it fills the cavity of the mouth, or is prolapsed, it gives the patient discomfort and interferes very seriously with taking food. The patient having been anaesthetized and a gag introduced between the jaws, the tongue should be grasped with forceps and drawn for- ward, a strong ligature being introduced through each side of the tongue to enable the operator to draw it forward and have control of the stump after the removal of the anterior portion of the organ. A V-shaped piece of the tongue, with its apex directed backward, should then be excised, and the edges of the wound brought together by sutures passed through the thick- ness of the flaps. Hemorrhage is not usually free, but bleeding vessels should be grasped with haemostatic forceps and ligated; the deep sutures generally control the bleeding perfectly. If the tissue removed has been sufficient, after the flaps have been sutured the stump is retained in the mouth, and, as a rule, it continues to shrink for some time after the opera- tion. The sutures should be removed in about ten days. Acute Glossitis.—This condition, which consists in a parenchymatous inflammation of the tongue, is a comparatively rare affection, and occurs more frequently in adults than in children. It may involve one-half of the tongue, constituting hemigloss'rtis, or may involve the whole organ. It may result from bites of insects, cuts, burns, exposure to cold, or septic condi- tions of the mouth. Symptoms.—The tongue rapidly increases in size, and may fill the cavity of the mouth so largely that breathing is interfered with ; the organ becomes red and covered with a muco purulent discharge ; salivation is pro- fuse, and speech and swallowing become difficult and painful. There is at the same time marked constitutional disturbance, as shown by the elevation of the temperature and the rapidity of the pulse. Treatment.—Although the symptoms are most distressing, and often alarming, they usually subside promptly under treatment. In cases in which the affection is only moderately developed the patient should be given an active purgative, should suck pieces of ice, and use an antiseptic mouth- wash, and under this treatment the pain and swelling will usually quickly subside. If, however, the swelling is great and increasing, and is accom- panied by the symptoms previously mentioned, free longitudinal incisions should be made into the dorsum of the organ, deep enough to expose its muscular substance. These incisions are followed by the escape of blood- stained serum, and often free bleeding, but the latter subsides in a short time. After free incisions the swelling diminishes rapidly, and the patient often in a few minutes experiences great relief. An antiseptic mouth-wash should be employed until the incisions are healed. Abscess of the Tongue.—This is an extremely rare affection, and may result from acute glossitis, from exposure to cold or heat, or from foreign bodies embedded in the tongue. The abscess may involve the central por- tion or the lateral aspects of the organ, and may form slowly and give rise to little pain, or may develop rapidly and be accompanied by the symptoms