775 URANOPLASTY. Uranoplasty.—For this operation the patient should be anaesthetized and placed in the same position as for staphylorrhaphy, and the edges of the hard and the soft palate freshened by removing strips of mucous membrane (Fig. 688, «) ; curved incisions are next made through the hard palate down to the bone on each side (Fig. 688, b), about one-fourth of an inch inside of the alveolar process. A periosteal elevator, curved on the flat or straight (Fig. 689), is next introduced into the incisions, and a muco-peri- osteal flap is dissected up ; or an osteotome may be Fig. 689. a, Incision for freshening edges of the gap; 6, incision in the hard palate. introduced into the incisions and the bone freely divided, so that the detached portions with their muco-periosteal covering may be readily approximated in the line of the cleft. Sutures are next passed through the freshened edges of the hard and the soft palate as previously described, and drawn up and clamped with shot. (Fig. 690.) Free hemor- rhage often occurs in both of these operations, which is usually easily controlled by pressure, but if it is severe it may be necessary to pack the incisions with gauze. Wolff's method, which consists in making incisions near the alveolar border of the gums, detach- ing muco-periosteal flaps, packing the wounds with gauze for a few days, and subsequently freshening the edges of the palate and uniting them with sutures, may be practised with advantage. The after-treatment in this operation is similar to that after staphylorrhaphy, but, as a rule, the sutures should be allowed to remain for two weeks. If union occurs in a part of the cleft only, a subsequent opera- tion may be necessary to obtain a complete closure. Abscess of the Palate.—This may be situated in either the hard or the soft palate. Abscess of the hard palate may result from dental caries, and is usually situated just within the alveolar arch ; it may also occur in connection with syphilitic or tuberculous disease of the underlying bone. The most marked symptoms of this affection are pain and swelling ; the pain is often very severe ; the swelling is at first firm, but soon softens. Necrosis or caries of the underlying bone is not uncommon in this affection. Abscess of the soft palate may follow acute tonsillitis. The treatment of abscess of the palate consists in making a free incision to evacuate the pus, after which Edges of the palate ap- proximated with shotted su- tures ; showing gaping of lateral incisions.