TREATMENT OF PYOSALPINX. 1205 Prognosis.—A mild salpingitis usually resolves, but adhesions are apt to remain and cripple the tubal and ovarian functions in some degree. Severe cases may end in a general peritonitis, abscess, or pyosalpinx, but more frequently they quiet down into the chronic form, which does not threaten life, although it renders the patients more or less invalids and sub- ject to acute exacerbations from exposure to cold during menstruation, overwork, or too free indulgence in sexual intercourse. Treatment.—Choice of Treatment.—The treatment of chronic sal- pingitis will depend upon the severity of the symptoms. Sometimes treatment directed to the accompanying endometritis will be sufficient. Operations should be limited to cases which prove obstinate under thorough general and local treatment, and the operations themselves should be as conservative as possible. A very acute salpingitis, with acute peritoneal infection, as shown by great tenderness and high temperature, should be treated by cold or hot applications externally, very hot vaginal douches, rest in bed, opium, and laxatives, and operation should be delayed until the acute symptoms have passed, for fear of exciting a general peritonitis by separating the adhesions. Should signs of general peritonitis or acute sepsis make their appearance, however, the surgeon will be forced to operate in spite of the danger of interference. The diagnosis of these cases from appendicitis may be very difficult. (See Appendicitis.) Removal of the Tubes.—When pyosalpinx forms, extirpation of the affected tube and corresponding ovary is the best method of treatment, for, although attempts have been made to cure these cases by vaginal drainage, recurrences follow almost invariably. In eases of chronic catarrhal sal- pingitis marked by a thickening of the walls and adhesions, without the formation of a pus-sac, if the changes have not progressed too far a cure can sometimes be obtained by simply freeing the adhesions, but in advanced cases extirpation alone gives permanent relief. The tubes and ovaries may be removed by a laparotomy in the median line, care being taken to pack back the intestines with pads or sponges, so that there can be no possibility of infection from the fluid which is likely to be discharged from the tubes by their rupture during the operation. The size of the laparotomy incision is immaterial; easy cases may be completed by an incision which will admit only two fingers, but the difficult ones may necessitate an opening extending nearly to the umbilicus, in order to deal with the complicated conditions with due regard to the safety of the patient. The Trendelenburg position is invaluable in difficult cases, but it is dangerous if large amounts of infectious fluid are evacuated, no matter how carefully the pelvis is surrounded by sponges. It is our custom to begin the separation of adhesions without it until we know how much fluid is likely to be found, and if, having raised the pelvis, we are surprised later in the operation by a sudden outburst of fluid, the pelvis is lowered at once. The irrigation also must not be undertaken until the pelvis has been lowered. The surgeon first separates the adhesions around the affected tube, one ovary and tube usually being found in the cul-de-sac and the other higher up in the pelvis. The strength of the adhesions is tested, and those which