si»4 CONCUSSION OF THE SPINAL CORD. Operation should not be undertaken before the child is three months of age. In some cases successful attempts have been made to close the opening by making bone or periosteal flaps from the vertebral arches or the sacrum, or by grafting the periosteum of a rabbit on the closed sac. SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SPINAL CORD AND ITS MEMBRANES. Inflammation.—Inflammation of the spinal meninges may follow sim- ilar affections of the head, or may arise from direct infection through an external wound, and the symptoms are spinal irritation, convulsions, and, finally, paralysis, together with a high fever. Purulent meningitis is rare, but when it has once set in treatment appears to be powerless, and a fatal end may be expected. In case of external infection the only available method of treatment is a free opening and drainage of the wound. Tumors of the spinal cord are usually gliomata or tuberculous nodules, but they are rare. The tumors which chiefly occupy the surgeon are those which develop in the meninges, especially the dura, or in the bone, and compress the cord or involve it secondarily. These tumors are generally fibromata, sarcomata, or gummata. A tumor affecting the spinal cord may be suspected when motor and sensory paralysis below a certain point de- velops without known cause, especially if it be preceded by symptoms of irritation, such as increased reflexes, muscular spasm, spinal rigidity, and pain. Intense pain, often limited to certain nerves, is a common symptom, and sometimes local tenderness of the spine is observed. Tumors which did not involve the cord have been successfully removed by the operation of laminectomy. INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD. Concussion.—The symptoms recognized under the name of concussion of the spinal cord are due to slight lesions, such as very small lacerations, hemorrhages, or contusions. This condition has been known by the name of "railway spine," on account of its frequent production by railroad acci- dents. It appears to be most marked in persons of a neurotic temperament, and seems to depend largely upon the fright and cerebral shock received at the time of injury. The symptoms occasionally disappear as suddenly as hysterical affections. Symptoms.—The fact that these cases are often complicated with law- suits for the recovery of damages renders the interpretation of the reality of the symptoms still more difficult. The prevailing opinion at the present time is that such patients do not feign the symptoms they present, but that they are the subjects of a real nervous affection, although it is probable that the mind is affected as much as the spinal cord. There are three types distinguishable among these cases, the picture pre- sented being respectively that of neurasthenia, neuralgia, or paralysis, and in some cases any or all of the groups of symptoms may be combined. The neurasthenic patients, who are the most numerous, show a loss of memory and of will-power and have some pain in the back and a feeling of weakness, with congestion of the conjunctiva and more or less disturbance of all the bodily functions. The neuralgic patients suffer from severe shooting pains in various nerves, but particularly in the back and in the lower extremities.