788 INJURIES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. erally attacks the vault, of the pharynx, and as it gives few symptoms it is not noticed by the patient until it is too late for treatment. Pharyngotomy.—The operation of opening the pharynx is called pharyngotomy. The upper part is best reached by the method of Miku- licz, who makes an oblique incision parallel to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, beginning at the ear and extending half-way down the neck, from the centre of which an incision is carried forward, dividing the skin only. The angle of the jaw is exposed in the anterior branch of the in- cision, the periosteum is stripped from the bone, and the latter is divided obliquely, just above the angle, with a saw, after which the periosteum is dissected up and the ramus is seized with strong forceps and twisted out. The important vessels and nerves in the pterygo-maxillary fossa are pushed to one side and the mucous membrane of the pharynx exposed. If there has been considerable hemorrhage or shock, the wound may be packed and the pharynx not opened for several days. The operation wound is cov- ered with granulations by that time, and the danger of infection is re- duced. The pharynx having been opened, tumors of the pharyngeal wall or of the tonsil can be removed with comparative ease, especially if one finger be placed in the mouth. The deformity resulting from the loss of bone is slight, and we have found that the lateral displacement of the jaw is less than the width of one tooth. The lower part of the pharynx is opened by subhyoid pharyngotomy, the incision being just below and parallel with the greater cornu of the hyoid bone. The wound is deep- ened by careful dissection until the mucous membrane of the pharynx is reached, and the latter is incised on a line with the epiglottis, just above the larynx. This incision gives access to the upper part of the larynx or oesophagus, as well as to the lower part of the pharynx. After the opera- tion is concluded the edges of the mucous membrane may be sutured and the external wound lightly packed, or the entire wound may be left open and the patient fed by a stomach-tube. After operations upon the pharynx the patient should be fed for two or three days by the rectum, by the introduction of a tube through the nose, or even by leaving a tube per- manently in place in the wound. The last method is objectionable be- cause of the unusual secretion of saliva and mucus excited by the tube and the increased danger of infection. THE (ESOPHAGUS. Injuries.—Injuries of the oesophagus except burns or .scalds are rare. Wounds are seldom seen, except the severe cut-throat and gunshot wounds, which generally result fatally from injury to other parts. Spontaneous rupture of the oesophagus has been known to occur, the contents escaping into the mediastinum. Burns by hot liquids or caustic substances, the most common being lye, are quite frequent, aspecially in children. The treatment consists in the administration of alkalies, vegetable acids (vine- gar), and white of egg to neutralize the caustic. Rectal alimentation should be resorted to, and demulcents, of which milk is the best, given by the mouth. After the acute inflammation has subsided, the daily use of bougies is instituted, to prevent the formation of stricture.