DISEASES OF THE SPLEEN. 967 stomach and the colon, or below both of those organs, or between the liver and the stomach. Adhesions of the cyst to the organs about it or to the great vessels are very frequently, although not invariably, present. A pancreatic cyst forms a slowly growing tumor in the abdomen, fixed in the middle line, not moving with respiration. An area of resonance will separate it from the liver, as a rule, although if the tumor should come for- ward between the liver and the stomach the area of dulness on percussion over it would be continuous with the hepatic dulness. The cyst usually attains the size of a man's head, but may be much larger. The general symptoms are those excited by the pressure of the tumor, discomfort, vom- iting, and constipation, together with disturbance of digestion from loss of pancreatic fluid. There may be sugar in the urine. Solid Tumors.—Cancer of the pancreas is not common, and benign solid tumors are rare. The symptoms of solid tumors are due to the ob- struction they cause to the common bile-duct and pancreatic duct, prevent- ing the flow of bile and pancreatic juice and interfering with the digestion, free fat appearing in the stools. There may be symptoms of biliary obstruc- tion, such as jaundice and more or less pain in the epigastrium, and ca- chexia. The tumors are of small size and slow growth, and the diagnosis can seldom be made in time to permit of operative treatment. Similar symptoms are caused by carcinoma of the duodenal mucous membrane be- ginning at the papilla, as in a case observed by us. Treatment.—These tumors require operation, but the solid tumors are seldom recognized in time for such treatment. To remove a pancreatic cyst the abdomen is opened by a median incision. The wall of the cyst will be found to be covered by the omentum or mesocolon, or possibly the gastro- hepatic ligament. The posterior layer of the peritoneum must be divided, and then the cyst-wall can be exposed. An aspirating needle or trocar is thrust into the cyst and the contents evacuated. The opening is then closed with a clamp, and the adhesions of the cyst carefully examined, and if these are not too strong they may be separated. The pedicle, which is usually formed by the tail of the pancreas, is ligated, or that part of the pancreas from which it springs is ligated as a pedicle. The tumor can then be cut away. If the adhesions are too strong for safe separation the sac is to be drawn out and sutured in the abdominal wound, after which the greater part of it can usually be removed, and the remaining cavity of the cyst is to be drained. In some cases the anterior portion of the cyst-wall can be cut away, and its edges closely united by sutures after a drain has been passed through a lumbar wound into the bottom of the cyst. The abdominal wound can then be closed completely. The mortality of this operation is from fourteen to twenty per cent. The old operation of secxiring the cyst in the abdominal wall and waiting for adhesions to form before opening it for drainage is not so satisfactory. SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SPLEEN. Wandering Spleen.—The peritoneal attachments of the spleen may be so elongated as to allow it to move about in the abdomen, and even to descend into the pelvis. This condition is called wandering spleen, and