631 TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE WRIST. useful to the patient if ankylosis occurs. Injections of iodoform emulsion and fixation may be followed by the arrest of the disease and recovery with a useful arm with a moderate amount of restriction in the motions. If abscesses form, they should be opened and drained, and fixation should be maintained. After the sinuses have healed, ankylosis may take place, and the arm may be useful if it has been held at a right angle. If the disease is progressive or there are free discharge and other evidences that disorganiza- tion of the joint has occurred, erasion or excision should be performed. In adults early operations should be practised ; in children it is better to wait until disorganization of the joint has taken place. We have seen many very useful arms follow the excision of tuberculous elbow-joints. In excising such joints the diseased structures should be very freely removed, but less extensive operations should be practised in children, to avoid injury of the epiphyses. DISEASES OF THE WRIST-JOINT. This joint may be the seat of acute synovitis or of tuberculous synovitis or arthritis. Acute synovitis, which arises sometimes from injury, but more commonly from general septic infection, does not differ in its symptoms or its treatment from the same affection in other joints. Tuberculous Synovitis or Arthritis of the Wrist.—This affec- tion may be synovial or osteal in its origin, and rarely originates in the articular surface of the radius, being most frequently consequent on syno- vitis of the carpal articulations or ostitis of the bones of the carpus. It may occur in children or in adults, but in our experience it is more common in adults. Symptoms.—The joint becomes stiff, and swelling occurs upon the dorsal surface of the wrist on each side of the extensor tendons. As the swelling increases the muscles become wasted, so that the region of the wrist presents a spindle-shaped appearance which is very characteristic. (Fig. 556.) Pain may not be a marked symp- tom unless the joint is moved, but when the bones are extensively involved it is often severe. Treatment. — This consists in putting the joint at rest as soon as the disease is recognized with good results. If abscesses form, they should be opened and drained, and fixation should be continued. Even in cases of extensive disorganiza- tion of the joint, when excision would seem to be indicated, free drainage seems to us to offer the patient a better chance of recovery than excision. We have rarely seen a good result following excision of the wrist in advanced cases of tubercular disease, the majority of the cases in which this operation had been done requiring amputation later. If, however, the operation is Fig. 556. Tuberculous arthritis of the wrist. Injections of iodoform emulsion may be employed