ANTISEPTIC AGENTS. 161 It was formerly the rule to apply the antiseptic method very generally in the treatment of infected wounds. Recent investigations, however, have shown that the germs in abscesses are to a great extent dead, and that the pus-formation is largely due to the irritation caused by their products. In view of these facts, it would seem that the most important part of the treat- ment of infected wounds is thorough drainage. It is a question whether the micro-organisms in the walls of infected cavities or sinuses can be destroyed by antiseptic irrigation. Some surgeons recommend active treatment, both mechanically and by the use of germicidal solutions, while others are satis- fied simply to secure free drainage, and if irrigation is necessary they do not employ strong germicidal fluids, but use simply sterilized water or sterilized salt solution. For our own part we are inclined to employ the antiseptic method in dealing with infected wounds, and can recommend the follow- ing plan. The skin surrounding the wound for some distance should be wiped over with spirit of turpentine and carefully scrubbed with soap and water, and should next be washed with a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution ; the wound itself should next be washed with peroxide of hydrogen and a 1 to 1000 bichloride solution. With forceps and curette any dirt or slough- ing tissue should be removed; then the wound again washed with per- oxide of hydrogen and douched with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution. The wound should then be dried with gauze pledgets and dusted with iodoform and loosely packed with strips of iodoform gauze. If from the appearance of the tissues the surgeon has reason to think that the infection has passed beyond the reach of the curette or scissors, he may swab the surface of the wound over with a solution of chloride of zinc, thirty grains to the ounce of water. Pure carbolic acid may be used, and is recommended by some surgeons, for the same purpose as chloride of zinc, but the toxic action of carbolic acid causes its employment to be attended with some danger. Free drainage being secured by the introduction of a few strips of iodoform gauze, the wound is dressed with a voluminous dressing of bichloride gauze and bichloride cotton. No attempt, as a rule, should be made to bring together the edges of such a wound by the introduction of sutures. In the dressing of infected wounds, when the discharges are ropy or viscid they are not well absorbed by dry dressings, and in this class of wounds it is therefore often of advantage to employ moist antiseptic dressings. By this method of treatment it is often possible to convert a septic wound into an aseptic one, and have rapid improvement follow both in the local condition of the wound and in the constitutional condition of the patient. AGENTS EMPLOYED TO SECUKE ASEPSIS. A great variety of agents possessing more or less germicidal power have been at different times employed in the practice of aseptic and anti- septic surgery. Those most employed now are heat, bichloride of mercury, carbolic acid, iodoform, beta-naphtol, chloride of zinc, sulphoearbolate of zinc, acetate of aluminum, peroxide of hydrogen, pyrozone, kreolin, per- manganate of potassium, pyoktanin, boric acid, salicylic acid, aristol, and iodol. ll