TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS OF THE SPINE. 533 spinal nerves, with a history of malignant disease in other parts of the body. Hysterical Spine.—This affection may be confounded with tuberculosis of the spine, but may be distinguished from the latter affection by the fact that it occurs usually in young women who exhibit no spinal rigidity or well- defined local tenderness, and who present cutaneous hyperesthesia and other signs of hysteria. The kyphotic rigidity of old age and the rigidity and deformity of spondy- litis deformans should not mislead the surgeon, as in these cases no other symptoms of tuberculosis of the spine are present. Perinephric abscess may be confounded with tuberculosis of the spine, but is distinguished from the latter affection by the acuteness of the in- vasion, febrile disturbance, resistance to extension of the hip, and a tumor in the ilio-costal space which may cause later deviation of the spine to the opposite side. Appendicial abscess with contraction of the hip may be confounded with tuberculosis of the spine, but the acuteness of the invasion and the abdom- inal symptoms will distinguish it from the latter affection. All abscesses occurring about the hip, buttock, or back should be care- fully examined for a possible spinal origin. Prognosis.—Tuberculosis of the spine should always be looked upon as a serious affection. The disease runs a slow course, usually two or three years, and may terminate in recovery with ankylosis of the spine at the .seat of disease, or in death from hectic fever, pyaemia, profuse suppuration, amyloid disease of the liver and kidneys, rupture of the abscess into vis- ceral cavities, tubercular meningitis, or visceral tuberculosis. In children the prognosis is more favorable than in adults. Abscess, which occurs in the majority of cases, is less likely to develop or to assume serious propor- tions where treatment is instituted early in the disease. The occurrence of abscess, although it does not necessarily lead to a fatal termination, always adds to the gravity of the condition. Early recognition of the disease, prompt and judicious local treatment, and good hygienic surroundings will be followed by ultimate recovery in the majority of cases. Treatment.—The treatment of tuberculosis of the spine consists in the use of constitutional remedies and immobilization of the spinal column. The constitutional treatment consists in good hygienic surroundings, good food, regular diet, the use of tonics, iodide of iron, and cod-liver oil, fresh air, and change of climate, sea air in many cases being most beneficial. The local treatment consists in fixing the spine and relieving the diseased and softened vertebra? from pressure, thus preventing as far as possible de- formity from breaking clown of the bodies of the vertebra1, and placing the diseased parts in the best position for ankylosis. Two methods of treatment are very widely employed—prolonged recumbency, and the use of spinal fixation apparatus, such as the plaster of Paris or leather jacket, or the spinal brace constructed of steel and leather. Prolonged Recumbency.—This method consists in keeping the patient in bed upon a firm mattress with a low pillow, with sand-bags placed to the sides of the body and the head, to prevent him from turning upon