BRANCHIAL CYSTS. 85 Congenital cystic tumor of the neck. the entoderm (skin and mucous membrane) are continuous from one projec- tion to the next, the mesoderm (connective tissue) being wanting at the so- called cleft. The inner and outer layers, however, are often defective at the bottom of the grooves, and small openings may exist in the clefts. When the projections from both sides meet in the median line the clefts or grooves between adjoining projections fill up to the level of the parts on each side of them, the two membranes (ento- derm and ectoderm) being separated by a growth of mesoderm between them. Occasionally, however, this filling up is incomplete, and a deep sinus may persist between two neigh- boring projections, passing from the outer surface of the skin directly to the inner surface of the pharynx and the adjacent parts. The outer part of such a passage is lined with epi- thelium corresponding to the skin, and the inner part with that corre- sponding to the mucous membrane. There may be a thin membranous septum between them. The external audi- tory meatus and the Eustachian tube are naturally formed in this manner, and the membrana tympani represents the septum between the two parts. If on account of irregular development both ends of oue of these abnormal sinuses be closed by the parts growing over them, a cavity will be left in the middle, which is lined by epithelium and forms a cyst, sometimes attaining a large size. (Fig. 43.) The character of the epithelial lining will depend upon the part of the sinus which has originated the cyst, and if it be near the skin the cyst will have the characters of a dermoid cyst, while if it be near the mucous mem- brane the epithelium will be mucous epithelium and will form a typical branchial cyst. The wall of a branchial cyst is made up of connective tissue with a lining of mucous membrane epithelium, which is usually of the cylin- drical variety, but may be ciliated when it originates from the same epithe- lium as the apex of the pharynx. The contents will be a clear or milky mucoid fluid, secreted by the mucous lining. If the cyst is exactly in the centre of the cleft, one side of the cyst may be of the dermoid and the other of the mucous variety, and the contents show a mixture of the two. We have removed a cyst situated high up on the sternum near the episternal notch which showed a very abrupt transition from one epithelium to the other at a certain point of the wall. The important parts of the neck, formed by the branchial projections, are as follows : the first pair form the inferior maxilla and lower lip; the second pair form the styloid process, the stylohyoid ligaments, and the lesser cornua of the hyoid bone ; and the third pair form the rest of the hyoid bone. The anatomy of the third and fourth pair is not thoroughly under- stood, but the thyroid gland and the thymus originate from these structures,