652 EXCISION OF THE LOWER JAW. making first an incision from the inner angle of the orbit to the malar bone, and a second incision from the nostril to the malar bone, joining the first. The soft parts are left adherent to the bone, which is divided with a saw upon the line of both incisions to the retromaxillary fossa; when this is accomplished the bony flap thus made is bent over the central line of the nose and drawn towards the opposite cheek ; this exposes the naso-pharyngeal cavity in the retromaxillary space. After the tumor has been removed and bleeding has been controlled by ligatures or the cautery, the parts are returned to their normal position and secured by a few sutures introduced into the bone, and by sutures introduced through the edges of the wound in the soft parts. Excision of the Lower Jaw.—Complete or partial excision of the lower jaw may be required for injury or for disease of this bone. The whole of the lower jaw, one-half of the jaw, or the anterior portion, in- cluding the symphysis, or a portion of the alveolus only, may require removal. Excision of the Ramus and Half of the Body of the Lower Jaw.—Operation.—In excising this portion of the bone au incision should be made from a point just below the free border of the lip, over the sym- physis, and carried down to the lower border Fig. 583. of the jaw, from which point it extends along the ramus to the lobe of the ear. (Fig. 583.) This flap is then dissected up, sepa- rating the masseter nmscle from the bone as far as possible without opening the cavity of the mouth. An incisor tooth is next ex- tracted, and the bone is divided with a saw near the symphysis. The jaw is then seized with forceps and drawn downward and out- ward, and denuded upon its inner surface. The insertion of the temporal muscle into the coronoid process is divided, the condyle of the jaw is disarticulated from the glenoid cavity, and the remaining soft parts are care- fully detached with a knife or an elevator. (Fig. 584.) The facial artery and the inferior incision for excision of the lower jaw. dental nerve and artery are necessarily divided in removing this portion of the jaw. When the operation is performed for necrosis of the bone, the periosteum should as far as possible be preserved, but in cases of malignant disease it should be removed with the bone. If the middle portion of the lower jaw is taken away, removing the symphysis, the attachments of the muscles inserted into the genial tubercle are divided, and the tongue falls back- ward. To prevent this accident, before the attachments are severed a strong silk ligature is passed through the tip of the tongue, which is held forward and secured in this position until adhesions have formed. After removal of the whole or a portion of the lower jaw, the edges of the wound should be brought together with sutures, a pad of iodoform gauze loosely