682 TALIPES-VALGUS. After the deformity has been corrected by any of these operations, a properly fitting brace, by which extension and eversion of the foot can be maintained, should be worn for some time. ( Fig. 623.) Talipes Valgus, or Flat-Poot.—This deformity is usually non-con- genital, and consists in eversion of the foot,with flattening or disappearance of the arch. There is abduction of the anterior part of the foot, and more or less elevation of the outer border of the foot from yielding of the arch. (Fig. 624.) The tarsal bones, especially the astragalus and scaphoid, are altered in their relations, but are not much changed in shape. There is relaxation in the extensors, especially in the peroneus longus, as well as in the plantar muscles and ligaments. Talipes valgus is usually seen in feebly developed children, and results from the body weight coming upon a foot which is unable to sustain it. It is also often seen in adults, constituting talipes adolesemtium, which is most common after puberty and is due to the flatten- inner malleolus, and the ball of the great toe. This form of talipes is often overlooked, the severe pain which accompanies the condition often being referred to sprains, rheumatism, or ostitis; but a careful examination will show the deformity and the altered gait. Treatment.—Congenital valgus may be treated by gradual reposition of the parts, massage, and bandaging, and later by the application of appa- ratus supporting the arch of the foot. In the acquired form, where there is weakness of the extensors, much benefit may be gained by exercise of the foot, the patient practising raising himself a number of times daily on tip- toes, and by the application of massage and electricity to the weakened muscles. In addition, the use of a metal plantar spring worn in the shoe which supports the arch is of great value. (Fig. 625.) In cases in which there is much eversion of the foot the use of a steel ankle-brace is often required, and in very marked cases it may be necessary to restore the position of the arch under ether before the plantar spring or brace can be used. Tenotomy or tarsectomy is rarely required in this deformity. Talipes Calcaneus.—This deformity may be congenital or acquired, and most frequently results from infantile paralysis. In this condition the patient walks upon the heel, with the anterior portion of the foot raised, Fig. 624. ing of a relaxed arch under the increased body weight. This deformity may also be due to rickets, knock-knee, sprains, and badly united fractures of the bone of the leg in the region of the ankle-joint. Flat-foot. Symptoms.—In talipes val- gus the patient stands with the knees flexed and with the feet everted, and in walking the gait is heavy and uncertain. Pain is a common symptom, and is re- ferred to the astragalo-scaphoid articulation (tarsalgia), the