415 TENOSYNOVITIS. Fig. 312. Fig. 313. should be freshened and brought into apposition by two or three sutures of catgut or silk passed through them some distance from their edges, so that they will not be likely to cut out before union occurs. If it is found impossible after stretching the proximal end of the tendon and its attached muscle to bring it into contact with the distal end, sutures may be introduced between the ends, even if a gap of some size exists, these sutures serving as a framework for the deposit of reparative material; or some operation for lengthening the tendon may be undertaken. Secondary suturing of tendons is often followed by the most satisfactory results. Lengthening of Tendons.—This operation may be found necessary to increase the length of contracted tendons and muscles, or to lengthen a tendon so as to bring the divided ends together in the secondary suturing of tendons. It is best accomplished by introducing a knife and making an incision partly through the tendon, then splitting the tendon for a short distance and cutting through it, and suturing the ends as shown in Fig. 312. In case of marked re- traction of the proximal end of a tendon, a flap may be turned down from the proximal end and sutured to the distal end, after the method of Czerny (Fig. 313.) Dislocation of Tendons.—Tendons are occasionally, as the result of extreme violence, thrown out of their normal positions. This condition is sometimes observed in the tendon of the long head of the biceps, which may be thrown out of the bicipital groove, or the tendon of the peroneus brevis may be dis- placed forward, or the tendon of the tibialis posticus may be displaced from behind the internal malleolus. In the treatment of a dis- placed tendon, the use of a compress and bandage applied after the tendon has been replaced, and fixation of the part for a time, will often secure it in its normal position. If, however, this fails to control the tendency to displacement, the tendon should be exposed by an incision and sutured in its normal position, being held by a flap of periosteum or fibrous tissue sutured across it. Teno-Synovitis or Thecitis.—Inflammation of the synovial sheaths of tendons may occur as an acute or a chronic affection. Acute teno-syno- vitis usually results from traumatism, and may present the symptoms of inflammation without suppuration, or may be accompanied by profuse sup- puration if pyogenic organisms have gained access to the synovial sheaths. Acute Non-Suppurative Teno-Synovitis.—This affection usually results from strains or sprains of the tendons and sheaths, or from unaccus- tomed excessive use of the parts, especially if accompanied by exposure to cold. This form of teno synovitis is most frequently observed in the tendons about the wrist and those just above the ankle. The symptoms are pain, Lengthening of a tendon. Czerny's method of lengthening a tendon.