1181 PELVIC PERITONITIS. Metritis, or inflammation of the uterine tissue, is not likely to come under the surgeon's care, except that hysterectomy may be required for a septic metritis after labor. PELVIC PERITONITIS. Pelvic peritonitis is the result of septic infection in parturition or occurs as the consecpience of pyosalpinx and salpingitis. It may be tuberculous, following tuberculosis of the genitals. In the very acute cases the patient has intense pain, a high temperature, and chills, and the case may terminate rapidly in septicaemia or a general peritonitis. Or the disease may be sub- acute, with less marked but similar symptoms, which may be so slight that the patient will be up and about, the irregular slight fever not being noticed. In still other cases the disease runs almost a latent course, slowly pro- gressing from the infected tubes. The acute form is usually seen as the result of infection in parturition, in criminal abortions, or in severe gonor- rhoea! infection. Treatment.—For this form but little can be done beyond the applica- tion of a cold coil to the abdomen and the administration of morphine. In the subacute form the use of hot vaginal douches, rest in bed, laxatives, and tonics are indicated. Thorough treatment may prevent the formation of adhesions, and the exudate may become absorbed, leaving the parts in a fairly healthy condition. In the latent form the diagnosis will usually not be made until it is too late to accomplish much by these means. The per- sistent use of hot douches, however, with the application of iodine to the vault of the vagina, and packing the vagina with tampons wet with boro- glyceride, will often ameliorate the symptoms. In the two latter forms a chronic salpingitis is at the base of the trouble, and a cure can be obtained only by the removal of the tubes by an operation. PELVIC CELLULITIS. Inflammation of the cellular tissue of the pelvis, especially that of the broad ligament, is usually secondary to some inflammation of the genitals, but is not a very common complication, the majority of cases formerly thought to represent this disease being instances of peritonitis. In most cases, also, the peritoneum is involved as well as the cellular tissue, and it is impossible to distinguish between the two. Cellulitis, however, does occasionally accompany a septic inflammation of the uterus or of the vagina, and sometimes results in abscess of the broad ligament. These abscesses are to be distinguished from intraperitoneal masses of adhesions and pus col- lected about the inflamed tubes and ovaries by the fact that they lie rather low down in close contact with the upper part of the vagina, especially on the sides of the latter (Fig. 898), whereas tumors formed by inflamed tubes are generally higher up (Fig. 899), or occupy Douglas's cul-de-sac. The symptoms of cellulitis are pelvic pain and tenderness, with the consti- tutional indications of infection occurring during the course of septic disease of the genitals. Examination will reveal tenderness on one or both sides of the uterus, which will be somewhat fixed by the exudate. The inflam- matory mass may attain considerable size. When pus forms fluctuation