DIAGNOSIS OF HIP-DISEASE. 618 the patient may develop progressive emaciation and amyloid changes in the liver and kidneys, attended with albuminuria and anasarca, which are usually soon followed by death. Tubercular meningitis is a complication which not infrequently occurs during the course of hip-disease, and is almost always fatal. Visceral tuberculosis is also a not infrequent complication of hip-disease, and usually manifests itself after the joint-lesion is apparently cured. Diagnosis.—It is sometimes difficult to make a diagnosis of hip-disease when the patient is seen in the very early stages of the affection, but if the surgeon will bear in mind the characteristic symptoms of the disease —limping, flattening of the buttock, loss of the iliofemoral crease, at- rophy of the limb, loss of motion or fixation in the movements of the joint, and starting-pains at night—he will seldom fail to recognize the true nature of the affection. In every case of suspected hip-disease a systematic exam- ination should be made, the patient being stripped and examined standing, to observe the position of the limbs ; he should next be placed upon his back upon a flat surface, such as a table, and the length of the limbs should be compared and any change in their position noted. The condition of the joint as regards motion or fixation should next be carefully examined ; arch- ing of the lumbar spine due to contraction of the psoas muscle when the leg and thigh are depressed is a most valuable diagnostic sign. When the thigh upon the sound side is flexed and then brought down so that the limb rests Fig. 545. Arching of the spine when the diseased limb is brought down to the table. Position of the spine when the diseased limb is flexed. upon the table, no change in the lumbar spine occurs, but if the same manipu- lation is practised upon the affected side a marked lumbar curve is devel- oped, which disappears as soon as the knee is raised. (Fig. 545.) The sur- geon should also examine for swelling and tenderness on pressure over the joint. Careful inquiry will elicit the history of limping and starting- pains.