912 PAGET'S DISEASE. fat and glands in connection with the breast and removing the whole in one piece. With care the third subscapular nerve can be preserved, and its injury should be avoided, because it supplies the latissimus dorsi. Some surgeons prefer to open the axilla first and remove the contents, in order to prevent all danger of infection by forcing cancer-cells into the vessels by the handling of the parts, and then excise the breast, but the usual practice is that given above, and it seems easier of execution and sufficiently safe. This method is suited to the removal of the breast when it is not ad- herent to the pectoral muscle, but as soon as the gland has become adherent the entire muscle should be removed (Heidenhain). In such cases, when the skin-flaps are made, the upper and inner flap should be dissected well back to the edge of the insertion of the pectoralis major. The space under this muscle being opened, the finger rapidly separates it from the pec- toralis minor, and then its insertions into the ribs towards the sternum are divided with the scissors and the entire muscle drawn outward, together with the breast and the tumor. Before dissecting the axilla the insertion of the pectoralis major into the humerus is to be exposed and divided. When the axilla has been cleared, in such cases as these, the dissection should be car- ried under the pectoralis minor, and the triangle of Mohrenheim, which lies on the inner side of the pectoralis minor, between it and the clavicle, should be cleared of its fat, vessels, and lymphatics. In very bad cases in which the diseased glands can be felt high up under the pectoralis minor, that muscle should also be divided transversely, in order to facilitate the dissec- tion of the apex of the axilla (Meyer). The divided muscle is sutured at the close of the operation. When the diseased parts have been entirely re- moved, the vessels are ligated and the flaps turned back in place, and the wound is sutured. If much skin has been removed, additional skin may be obtained by dissecting it up from the side of the chest or the abdomen, so as to enable the flaps to slide inward. A space the size of the palm of the hand, or even larger, can thus be covered. If a raw surface remains, it can be covered with Thiersch's skin-grafts, either immediately or after granulation has begun. In the majority of cases, if the wound is sutured, it is wise to employ drainage, in order to prevent an accumulation of blood. Paget's Disease.—A peculiar epitheliomatous disease of the nipple is known as Paget's disease. It begins as an eczematous condition of the nip- ple, involving its entire surface and more or less of the areola. In this stage the skin seems superficially thickened, but is still soft, and there is no true ulceration, merely a rapid desquamation of the superficial epithelium. Shallow ulceration occurs, and the edges of the ulcer become thickened. The ulcer may be limited to the nipple, and the latter may gradually dis- appear, its former situation being marked by a small granulating ulcer level with the skin. The secretion is very slight, occasionally bloody. Probably from an early period some thickening of the breast-tissue can be discovered underneath the nipple, and this induration gradually spreads throughout the breast. The disease is very slow in its progress, often lasting several years, but it is sure to terminate in true carcinoma of the breast. The early pathological changes are those of chronic inflammation and superficial des- quamation of the epithelium of the skin. The cornification extends more