1106 latp;ral lithotomy. staff and makes an opening in the floor of the urethra. A long narrow knife is then slipped along the groove into the bladder, and made to enlarge the incision on withdrawal by cutting towards the rectum, which is held out of the way by the finger. A director is then passed into the bladder, the staff withdrawn, and a silver catheter passed through the wound into the bladder to prove that that organ has been reached. The finger is then inserted in the wound, dilating the opening, and the stone felt in the bladder. A pair of forceps slightly curved, with broad spoon-like ends, is slipped along the finger, or inserted after its withdrawal if the wound is too small, and made to grasp the stone, the same gentleness being used in seizing the calculus as in litholapaxy. The stone is then withdrawn by the forceps, which are given rotatory and lever-like movements to facilitate its extraction. When the stone has been removed, a soft rubber catheter should be inserted, the bladder thoroughly irrigated until the fluid returns clear, and the catheter left in place for drainage. The wound just admits the finger, and a stone larger than this cannot be removed by this operation unless it is broken into fragments. Lateral Lithotomy.—In the operation of lateral lithotomy a staff is used which has its groove upon the side towards the patient's left. The sur- geon makes an incision in the perineum (Fig. 849, b), beginning at the raphe in the central point of the perineum, about an inch and a quarter in front of the anus in the adult, and directed obliquely backward and outward so as to open the ischio rectal space. This incision is deepened until the ure- thra is reached, which is exposed somewhat on the side. The point of a long narrow knife is made to puncture the wall of the urethra and enter the groove on the staff, and is slipped into the bladder along the groove * dividing the urethra on the left-hand side. As the knife is withdrawn the handle is dropped a little, so that the blade cuts a little deeper through the outer tissues. The operator's finger is placed in the rectum before opening the urethra, as in the previous operation, to avoid injury to the former organ. The knife as it passes into the bladder cuts into the left lobe of the prostate, and the wound can,, therefore, be made much larger than that of a median lithotomy. The succeeding steps are the same as in the other case, but a larger stone may be removed, because the edges of the incision through the prostate can be allowed to stretch and tear, the only limit to the extent of the wound in this direction being the capsule of the prostate, which must not be injured, for fear of urinary extravasation. Peritonitis has also fol- lowed in such cases. The lateral operation involves the danger of injury to the left seminal vesicle and duct, as well as to the rectum, but permanent injury to the sexual organs seems to be rare. A recto vesical or recto- urethral fistula may be the result of injury to the rectum. Suprapubic Lithotomy.—Finally, we come to the old operation re- cently revived, opening the bladder above the pubes. The introduction of aseptic measures has almost removed the dangers of urinary infiltration or peritonitis, and the method gives free access to the bladder, where the surgeon can see what he is doing and remove a stone of any size. For the performance of this operation it is advantageous to place the patient in the Trendelenburg position. The bladder is then irrigated and moderately dis- tended with fluid, the quantity of which will vary according to the condition