404 NERVE-STRETCHING. Nerve-Grafting.—Where it has been necessary to remove a consider- able portion of a nerve, as, for instance, in the removal of a tumor or a neu- roma, or where a portion of a nerve has been removed in an accidental injury, if it is found that the gap between the ends of the nerve is too great, even after stretching the ends, to permit of approximation with sutures, length- ening of the nerve may be done, as is practised in the case of tendons, a flap or flaps being tinned from one or both ends of the divided nerve and united Fig. 305. Neuroplasty. (Willard.) by sutures. (Fig. 305.) The gap may also be filled by a graft of nerve-tissue: a section of nerve from a recently amputated limb, if it can be obtained, or, if not, a piece of nerve from a freshly killed animal, is cut of sufficient length to fill the gap, and is sutured to the nerve at each end by chromicized catgut Fig. 306. Nerve-grafting. (Willard.) sutures. (Fig. 306.) It is probable that nerve-grafts simply act as a frame- work for the deposit of new tissue, but some experimenters assert that the grafts produce embryonic nerve-fibres capable of assisting in reunion. Neurectasy, Neurotomy, or Nerve-Stretching.—Nerve-stretch- ing or elongation is a procedure in which the nerve is exposed and stretched in both directions. It has been shown by the experiments of Vogt that a nerve is capable of an elongation of one-twentieth of its length, the greatest elongation occurring at its spinal extremity. The amount of force that can be applied to an undivided nerve without producing rupture is a matter of importance in the operation of nerve-stretching. The force required to rup- ture the sciatic nerve is from one hundred to one hundred and sixty pounds ; the median, musculo-sjriral, and ulnar nerves will resist a strain of from fifty to eighty pounds ; the facial nerve will stand a strain of from seven to twelve pounds. Traction upon the nerve from the spinal cord towards the periph- ery is said to have more effect upon the sensory fibres, while traction upon the nerve from the periphery towards the spine is said especially to affect the motor fibres. The changes produced in the nerve by stretching are de- tachment of the sheath from the nerve, rupture of the blood-vessels of the sheath, and dilatation of the vessels of the substance of the nerve; laceration of the nerve-tubules is in proportion to the violence employed. Degenera- tion of the nerve-fibres occurs, which in time is followed by the formation of new nerve-fibres and complete regeneration of the nerve. There is prob- ably a distinct impression produced upon the spinal cord by nerve-stretch- ing, as experiments upon animals show very decided lesions of the cord, such as hemorrhages and inflammatory exudations, as the result of this procedure. The physiological effect of nerve-stretching is shown by decreased con-