156 ASEPTIC METHOD. impairing their germicidal action. Antiseptic substances which are active as germicides often cause irritation of the surface of the wound, interfering with its repair. Halstead has shown that irrigation of a fresh wound with a 1 to 10,000 solution of bichloride of mercury is followed by distinct evidence of superficial necrosis of the tissues. Antiseptic irrigation of wounds is apt to cause very free oozing of serum, which necessitates the use of drainage and makes the frequent dressing of the wound necessary. Many antiseptic substances produce marked toxic effects upon the patient, and also cause very severe irritation of the skin with which they come in contact. Aseptic Method.—In employing the aseptic method in the treatment of wounds the field of operation, the hands of the surgeon and assistants, the instruments, ligatures, sponges, and sutures, are sterilized by the use of germicidal solutions and heat, and after this has been accomplished, rely- ing upon the completeness of the sterilization, no antiseptic substances are brought in contact with the wound, sterilized water or sterilized salt solution being used if it is necessary to flush the wound, and the dressings employed are those only which have been sterilized by moist or dry heat. The advan- tages of the aseptic method are as follows : the method is applicable to all parts of the body ; wounds treated by this method heal more promptly and do not require such frequent dressing ; there is no risk of toxic effects, and there is no irritation of the skin by the dressings. Dry sterilized dressings are efficient to produce absorption, and at the same time the dryness may be a factor in the destruction of germs, for exposing bacteria to dryness deprives them of one of the conditions necessary to their existence. The aseptic method is, therefore, to be preferred to the antiseptic method in the treatment of wounds wherever it is possible. Sterilization of the Hands.—Experimental investigation has shown that the hands of the surgeon, unless properly sterilized, may be the most efficient agents in producing infection of the wound ; the region of t\ie finger- nails and the interdigUal folds are locations where germs are particularly abundant. The hands and forearms of the surgeon, assistants, and nurses who are to take part in the operation may be sterilized by first rubbing them with spirit of turpentine, and then thoroughly scrubbing them with Castile soap and water, using a nail-brush freely. Care should be taken that the brush is sterilized. This scrubbing should be employed for several min- utes ; the hands are then rinsed to remove the soap, and are soaked for two minutes in a 1 to 1000 bichloride of mercury solution. If turpentine has not been employed before washing with the soap, strong alcohol or ether should be well rubbed over the hands before they are immersed in the bi- chloride solution. When the hands have been sterilized they should not be brought in contact with anything that is not sterile. Another method of sterilizing the hands which is very satisfactory is that employed by Kelly, which consists in washing the hands and forearms with soap for ten minutes, and then covering them with a warm saturated solu- tion of permanganate of potassium, which stains them a deep mahogany color; they are then washed in a warm saturated solution of oxalic acid until all the permanganate stain is removed, and should next be washed in sterilized