610 TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS. arthritis, no forcible movements should be practised, as fresh inflammation may be excited and subsequent destruction of the joint may occur. In bony ankylosis with the joint in good position, the treatment depends upon the joint involved ; at the knee-joint ankylosis with the limb nearly straight is a condition which cannot be improved upon by operation ; the same may be said of the hip- and ankle-joints. Here attempts to restore joint motion by forcible movements are useless, and may result in fracture of the bone, which may occur at the position of the former articulation or at any other point. In the joints of the upper extremity, the shoulder and elbow, for instance, the loss of motion interferes so much with the patient's means of livelihood and comfort that operative treatment is indicated. In these cases excision of the ankylosed joint may be undertaken with the idea of obtaining a false joint which will increase the usefulness of the part. In bony ankylosis of joints in bad position, when the limb is useless, excision of the ankylosed joint should be practised, or an osteotomy of the bones above and below the joint may be done in some cases with satisfactory results as regards the cor- rection of the deformity. After excision, if it is desirable to have a mova- ble joint, as soon as the wound has healed motion should be encouraged, so that a false joint shall result. If fixation is desired, the splints should be retained until firm fibrous or bony union has occurred. The operations for ankylosis are described on pages 638 and 670. TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS. The majority of cases of chronic joint disease arise from infection by the bacillus tuberculosis. The disease may originate in the bone, the synovial membrane, the capsule of the joint, or the periarticular structures. The ex- citing cause of tuberculous arthritis may in many cases be traced to sprains, blows, twists, or exposure to cold; in other cases the disease develops without apparent exciting cause. Tuberculosis of synovial membranes is more frequent in adults, while tuberculosis of bone is more common in children. When the synovial membrane is the seat of the disease froin direct infection of a joint by tuberculous matter, there are active hyperemia of the membrane and external swelling, but when the invasion of the disease is slower the joint shows little evidence of active inflammation, the synovial membrane becomes congested, hypertrophied, and cedematous, and there is an abundant development of granulation-tissue. The tubercular infection produces a pulpy condition of the entire synovial sac, with usually little or no effusion into the joint, the swelling being entirely due to a thick layer of granulation-tissue. In this form of tuberculosis great deformity of the joints results early in the disease, such as flexion, rotation, and in some cases partial luxation. In other cases the fungous granulations are less marked, and free effusion takes place into the joint. If the primary infec- tion takes place in the bone, the disease by direct extension of the process soon involves the structures of the joint, a portion of the cartilage is de- stroyed, and the joint is opened. Tuberculosis of bone in the region of a joint usually involves the synovial structure of the joint, and, on the other hand, primary tuberculous synovitis and arthritis are apt, by extension, later to implicate the subjacent bone.