PARACENTESIS PERICARDII. 887 •with the thoracic viscera can often be removed with safety; in some cases they may be removed subperiosteal^ ; in others it is necessary to open the pleural cavity. The operation for the removal of intrathoracic tumors is always attended with great risk, and the surgeon should be guided in his opinion as to the advisability of their removal by the size of the growth and the presence of healthy skin over the tumor, for if the wound cannot be covered by skin the operation should not be attempted. The attachment of the growth to the viscera is also a condition which should decide the surgeon for or against operation. In operating upon these growths a free incision should be made, and it will often be found necessary to divide several ribs and remove portions of them with the growth. In the removal of substernal cysts and tumors excision of a portion of the sternum is often required. For the removal of posterior mediastinal tumors, for the relief of press- ure from enlarged glands, or for the removal of foreign bodies from the oesophagus or bronchi, J. D. Bryant has suggested opening the thorax from behind by resecting the ribs from a line near their angle to the inner side of the scapula. Paracentesis Pericardii.—This operation may be required for the re- lief of distention of the sac from pericardial effusion following injuries or re- sulting from acute or chronic pericarditis. The heart extends from the third to the sixth costal cartilage and from half an inch to the right of the right border of the sternum to a point half an inch to the right of the left nipple. The symptoms of pericardial effusion are pushing upward or loss of the apex beat, dyspnoea, prsecordial oppression, feeble, irregular pulse, difficulty in deglutition, dilatation of the cervical veins, increased area of cardiac dulness, which is tri- angular in shape, and muffling of the heart-sounds. These symptoms may arise from a serous or purulent effusion in the pericardium. Operation.—The removal of serous effusion from the pericardium is usually accomplished by introducing the needle of the aspirator into the fifth intercostal space at a point two inches to the left of the left border of the sternum, external to the internal mammary artery. (Fig. 754.) The needle should be thrust directly through the chest wall, and the fluid allowed to escape very slowly. If it is found that the effusion is purulent, although temporary relief may be afforded by aspiration, it will subsequently be necessary to incise and drain the pericardium. An incision should be made at the same point as for tapping the pericardium, a soft rubber or gauze drain intro- duced, and a copious antiseptic dressing placed over the wound. Fig. 754. A, position at which to open the pericardium. (After Dennis.)