839 MYRINGITIS. the fumes of chloroform or ether to enter the auditory canal, and their subsequent removal may be accomplished by syringing the ear with warm water, or by using a speculum and forceps. A great variety of inanimate objects are found in the auditory canal, such as pebbles, beans, peas, small buttons, and grains of wheat or corn. These objects are generally introduced into their own ears by children in play. They usually produce little discomfort at first, and it is only after they have been in the canal for some time and set up inflammation that their presence is recognized. Dry objects, such as peas, beans, or grains of corn, which absorb moisture and increase in size, may produce pain by pressure, and such objects are often quite difficult to remove. Treatment.—The safest method of removing foreign bodies from the ear is by syringing the canal with warm water, which usually will be fol- lowed by the removal of the body. In cases, however, in which the body has become swollen and impacted, it may be necessary to use a wire loop, forceps, or a scoop to dislodge and remove it. Great damage has often been done to the ear by unskilful attempts to remove a foreign body by forceps or a scoop, so that syringing should always first be employed, and these instruments should be used only under general anaesthesia where syringing has been unsuccessful. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MEMBRANA TYMPANI. Injuries of the Membrana Tympani.—Euptureof this membrane may result from blows upon the ear, or from the explosion of powder or gases, or the membrane may be perforated by sharp objects introduced into the auditory canal, such as nails, pins, pencils, or sticks. When rupture of the membrane occurs, there are experienced a ringing sound and pain, and often nausea and dizziness, with more or less impairment of hearing. Treatment.—In traumatic rupture or perforation of the tympanic membrane no attempt should be made to inject fluids into the ear to cleanse the wound, as they are apt to set up inflammation of the middle ear; but the auditory canal should be closed with a plug of antiseptic cotton, and this should be allowed to remain in place for a few days. These wounds usually heal promptly, satisfactory repair often occurring in one or two days. Myringitis.—Inflammation of the membrana tympani may exist as an acute or a chronic affection. Acute myringitis may be excited by the en- trance of irritants into the ear, by cold air or cold water, or by the growth of aspergillus upon the membrana tympani. The membrane becomes red- dened and swollen, and sharp pain may be experienced. When the myrin- gitis is due to the presence of aspergillus the membrane is covered with a grayish layer of tissue, which may extend to the walls of the auditory canal, and resembles in appearance wet paper ; there are also itching and pain and a scanty watery discharge. The diagnosis of aspergillus can be confirmed only by microscopic examination of the false membrane. Treatment.—In cases of myringitis due to cold water or cold air, dry heat should be applied to the ear, and its use is often followed by relief of the pain; if not relieved by this treatment, scarification of the membrane should be practised. If there is discharge from the ear, the auditory canal