EPIPHYSITIS. 522 osteal abscess presents marked swelling and fluctuation, and should be treated by free incision, irrigation, and drainage. The site of the abscess can usually be located by the thickening and enlargement of the bone and tissues at that point and by the oedeina of the overlying skin. In operating upon these abscesses, after applying an Esmarch bandage and tube to render the parts bloodless, the bone should be exposed by incision, and the perios- teum turned aside and held out of the way with retrac- tors ; the bone is then trephined or opened with a gouge, and as soon as pus is reached the walls of the cavity should be cut away until the cavity has been freely ex- posed (Fig. 445), when its surface should be thoroughly curetted and irrigated with a solution of bichloride of mercury. After the cavity has been thoroughly cleansed, the overhanging edges of bone should be removed with a gouge, to form a cavity with sloping edges, so that the soft, parts can fall in. The cavity should then be loosely packed with gauze and an antiseptic or sterilized gauze dressing applied; or, after thoroughly cleaning the cavity, it may be allowed to fill with blood-clot, or may be filled with bone chips, and the skin may be sutured over it. It is essential that the cavity should be aseptic to obtain a favorable result by the latter method. Epiphysitis.—This is a disease frequently seen in infants and young children, which arises from infection of the long bones in the region of the epiphysis by pyo- genic organisms, and presents many symptoms in com- mon with acute infectious osteomyelitis; its tendency, however, is to involve the adjacent joint, setting up an acute suppurative arthritis, rather than to extend to the shaft of the bone, as is the case in the latter affection. From its tendency to involve the joints it has also been described as Acute Arthritis of Infants. The cases described by Mr. Thomas Smith under this name were probably cases of epiphysitis. The infection in young infants probably arises from sloughing of the umbilical cord, and the localization of the pyogenic organ- isms may be determined by slight traumatisms received during labor. In older children the infection may arise from an acute tonsillitis or the throat complications of diphtheria or scarlet fever, or it may be impossible to trace the source of the infection, as is often the case in acute infective osteomye- litis, the pathology of which affection is similar. In epiphysitis the pus may make its way directly through the articular end of the bone and open into the joint, or may open laterally through the periosteum and come to the surface, the joint escaping infection. Symptoms.—In a typical case of acute epiphysitis in an infant the tissues over an epiphysis of a long bone become swollen and painful, and the limb is kept quiet; the child at the same time is feverish and restless and soon presents the constitutional symptoms of septic infection, and in a short time the joint becomes swollen and presents all the symptoms of acute sup- purative arthritis, or the abscess may point upon the limb near the joint. If Exposure of the bone- cavity in chronic osteo- myelitis. (After Neuber.)