SUPRAPUBIC LITHOTOMY. 1107 of the bladder, and no great force should be employed in its introduction, as a rupture might easily occur. Sometimes the bladder is so contracted that it will hold only two or three ounces, and in other cases eight or ten may be injected with impunity. The pressure should never be over that of a column of water six feet high, for rupture of the bladder has followed the injection. The distention of the bladder pushes upward the peritoneal fold in front of that organ (Figs. 850 and 851), uncovering a space on its Fig. 850. Fig. 851 Section of male pelvis, showing normal relations Same, with rectum and bladder distended. (Hunt.) of peritoneum and bladder. (Hunt.) anterior surface from one-half an inch to an inch above the pubes, which may be still further increased by inserting a rubber balloon, known as Petersen's balloon, in the rectum, and distending it with water or air. A maximum of exposure is obtained by injecting about eight ounces of fluid in the bag and five or six ounces in the bladder itself. The rectal balloon, however, has been known to cause injury to that organ by over-distention and even rupture, and the introduction of Trendelenburg's position has led the majority of surgeons to dispense with its use, except in cases where it is advisable to have the base of the bladder lifted up so as to be more acces- sible. Some surgeons have even abandoned distention of the bladder, but if the peritoneum is unusually adherent to the bladder owing to long-stand- ing inflammation of the organ, it is difficult to detach it, and the neglect of distention certainly adds to the risk of the operation. Some prefer to use air instead of water for distending the bladder. A median incision is made upward from the pubic bone two or three inches in length. This incision is deepened until the abdominal wall is cut through. The index finger is then passed into the prevesical space, keeping close to the pubes, and all the loose tissue in front of the bladder, including the peritoneal fold, is drawn well upward. The peritoneum is, as a rule, easily seen and detached by the finger until a space of an inch or more of the anterior wall of the bladder lies exposed in the wound. With a curved needle two loops of strong silk are passed through the bladder- walls, a little on each side of the median line, to use as retractors. The bladder is then incised between the loops, avoiding any conspicuous veins. The incision should be only large enough to admit the finger at first, and the