719 ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN. The first stage of abscess of the braiii is often obscure. The temperature is the most reliable symptom, and there may be a slight rise, particularly at night, with chilly sensations, and perhaps an actual chill, the patient also exhibiting signs of mental depression. At a later stage there may be ear- ache, if the trouble be the result of disease of the ear, and headache is one of the most reliable symptoms in all cases. When the temperature rises there is more pain, especially on that side of the head where the abscess lies. If there has been a discharge from the ear, it usually ceases. Vomiting may be present, with or without nausea. One of the characteristic signs of abscess of the brain is the great variation in the symptoms from time to time, and they sometimes completely disappear for an interval of days or weeks. In the stage of active extension all the symptoms are increased, especially the pain and the mental dulness, the latter resembling the dulness of opium- poisoning, according to Macewen. The patient lies in a drowsy, indifferent state, answers questions very slowly, goes to sleep while in the middle of a sentence, and in attempting any voluntary action shows a decrease of will- power. The temperature is usually 97° F. (36° C), or ranges between that and 99° F. (37° 0.); the pulse is very slow, about 60, or even down to 30, beats a minute. The respiration is natural or slow, but in cerebellar abscesses it may be irregular, with Cheyne-Stokes phenomena ; and in the last stages it may be reduced to eleven respirations in the minute, and may cease before the heart stops at the time of death. Vomiting is present, being brought on by sitting up in bed, and convulsions may occur, but the latter are rare in abscesses of the temporo-sphenoidal region. There may be distinct local paralysis. The pupils may be affected, and, as a rule, the pupil on the same side is diminished when the abscess is small and dilated when it grows larger, but in either case it is apt to be sluggish and not to react to light as well as the other side. Authorities vary as to the frequency of choked disk, but the weight of evidence is in favor of the existence of a low grade of optic neuritis in all cases. In the final stage coma may set in or menin- gitis may develop, the former being due to the increasing pressure of the abscess, the latter to infection or to perforation of the abscess upon the sur- face of the brain. An immediately fatal accident is the bursting of the abscess into the cavity of the ventricles, shown by the slow pulse becoming suddenly very rapid, the respiration growing shallow or deep and stertorous, and death resulting within twelve hours in convulsions or coma. Prognosis.—Operation affords the only real opportunity for recovery, although very small abscesses may doubtless remain latent for long periods, and it is possible that they may be absorbed. The destruction of brain- tissue is permanent, and paralysis or epilepsy may result from the adhesions produced by the scar. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of abscess of the brain is exceedingly diffi- cult except in simple cases, and even in such cases it may be confused with phlebitis of the sinuses, although in the latter the pupils remain normal unless the cavernous sinus is involved, and the phlebitis may extend into the jugular vein, causing tenderness in the neck and high fever. In tumors of the brain the paralysis is more distinct, the development is slower, and