INTUSSUSCEPTION. 960 is pushed forward into the colon at the head of the intussusception, we have the ileo-ccecal form. The caecum may be inverted with the valve, or the inversion may begin with the junction of the colon and the caecum, the caecum and the ileum then advancing together without inversion, and form- ing the intussusceptum as they lie side by side. This last variety is very rare. In the ileo-colic form the valve remains in place, but opens, and the lower part of the ileum is inverted through it into the colon. The ileo- Fig. 785. 1 2 Varieties of intussusception.—1, ileo-colic ; 2, ileo-csecal, ordinary form; 3, ileo-csecal, rare form. /, ileum ; AC, ascending colon; w, ileo-caecal valve ; C, caecum (inverted in Fig. 2) ; VA, vermiform appendix. csecal form is the most common of all. Next in frequency comes intussus- ception of the small intestine, then that of the large intestine, and finally the ileo-colic. Over one-half of the cases of intussusception occur in chil- dren under eleven years of age, and three-quarters of these cases are of the ileo-caecal variety. In rare instauces there are more than three layers of the bowel, a second intussusception forming outside of the first, so that there may be as many as six layers instead of three. The first change that occurs in a case of intussusception is interference with the circulation of the intussusceptum, its blood-vessels being strangu- lated at the neck of the tumor. CEdenia and swelling take place, which still further obstruct the lumen of the bowel. Adhesions form between the op- posed serous surfaces, and ulceration occurs on the mucous surface. Eeduc- tion of the intussusception can take place only in the earliest stages, because even twelve hours after the beginning of the attack the adhesions and swell- ing may prevent it. If the strangulation is long continued, the intussuscep- tum will die and slough away. If the slough does not separate until the adhesions around the neck are strong, no peritonitis is set up, and the slough passes off by the bowel, the lumen of the canal being thus restored. This happy termination, however, is rare, for the serous adhesions are seldom so complete as to prevent peritonitis when the slough separates, or the swollen intussusceptum may cause perforation of the wall of the sheath and result in peritonitis. Even when the slough has separated the cure is not com- plete, for a cicatricial stricture may form at the neck of the invagination