617 COMPLICATIONS OF HIP-DISEASE. Fig. 544. and pus may find its way through it to the surface, opening just below Pou- part's ligament, upon the perineum or into the rectum or bladder. When an abscess opens spontaneously upon the surface, or becomes infected after open- ing by pyogenic organisms, pain, heat, tenderness, and profuse suppuration are added to the existing symptoms of the disease, and the patient presents the general symptoms of the hectic state. A certain number of cases of hip-disease pass through the various stages of the disease and recover without the forma- tion of abscess, but usually present more or less deformity and impairment of function of the joint. Dislocation of the head of the fe- mur occasionally occurs during the course of the disease, particularly in those cases which have not been treated and in which there is great adduction, forcing the altered head of the bone against the upper rim of the acetabu- lum. In such cases very little absorp- tion of the bone will allow the head of the bone to slip out upon the dorsum of the ilium. When recovery takes place in a case of advanced hip-disease there always result more or less deformity and loss of function in the joint ; if free suppu- ration has occurred, the discharge from the sinuses may diminish, and after a time they may close, or they may per- sist for years after the disease is apparently cured. The amount of deformity and loss of function of the joint which result depend largely upon the stage of the disease at which the treatment was begun and the character of the treatment employed. Partial or complete ankylosis, which may be fibrous or bony, always takes place. Ankylosis in good position does not prevent the patient from having a fairly useful limb ; the shortening can be overcome by the use of a thick sole or a raised shoe. Complications.—Abscess.—This is a very common complication of hip-disease, occurring in about fifty per cent, of all cases. In cases in which appropriate treatment is employed early in the disease probably not more than twenty per cent, suffer from abscess, according to Gibney. Abscess usually results in sinuses, which may continue to discharge for some time and eventually heal. A very common seat of abscesses in hip-disease is upon the upper and anterior portion of the thigh, external to the femoral vessels, but they may occur at many other points, in the gluteal region, or on the inner aspect of the thigh, or, in cases in which the acetabulum is perfo- rated, above Poupart's ligament, in the perineum, or open into the bladder or bowel. In cases of hip-disease in which there is long-standing suppuration, Deformity in the third stage of hip-disease. (Say re.)