TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE HIP. 615 generally supposed. In children the starting-point of the disease is almost without exception in the bone, at the epiphyseal line, or in the head of the femur; while in adults the synovial membrane is most frequently the seat of the primary infection. In many cases the exciting cause of the affection can be traced to traumatisms or exposure to cold, but in others the disease develops apparently without exciting cause. Clinical History.—The symptoms which first attract attention are a slight limp, pain in the hip, or more commonly at the inner side of the knee, with a tendency soon to grow tired upon slight exertion, and starting- pains at night caused by muscular spasm. The child while asleep will suddenly cry out and become awakened, but soon drop off to sleep again. These symptoms the parent is apt to attribute to some fall or injury which the child has received, but upon careful questioning it is rarely found that a satisfactory connection between an injury and the development of the symptoms can be established. The symptoms may be gradually aggravated, so that the nature of the disease cannot be mistaken, or there may be a re- mission of some weeks or months, followed by the return of the same symp- toms, the pain in the hip and knee, the limp, and the starting-pains at night being more marked than in the first instance. In the development of tuberculous disease of the hip three stages are recognized, each accompanied with distinctive symptoms. 1. The stage of deposition of bacilli, causing irritation and new growth. 2. The stage of fully developed arthritis, with the formation of embryonic tissue-masses and effusion into the joint. 3. The stage of caseation or abscess, with breaking down of the infected tissues, disorganization of the joint, and destruction of the periarticular tissues. Symptoms.—First Stage.—There is slight lameness or stiffness in the articulation, the knee is slightly flexed, and the limb is abducted; stiffness may be more marked in the early part of the day than later, when considerable exercise has been taken. The patient is disinclined to play, and soon becomes tired. Rigidity of the muscles about the joint is ob- served, especially of the adductors. Pressure upon the trochanter or the sole of the foot causes pain in the hip-joint. Pain in this stage is not often marked, but may be complained of in the hip, or more frequently at the inner side of the knee, because of the relation of the obturator nerve to these articulations. Starting-pains at night may be present. The amount of pain depends largely upon the extent and rapidity of involvement of the bone; when the epiphysis and osseous tissue beneath the articular cartilage are involved, pain is apt to be a prominent symptom. The mus- cles may be slightly atrophied, and there may be some fulness over the joint in front of and behind the trochanter. Second Stage.—This stage is characterized by the occurrence of marked deformity, caused by inflammation, with softening and partial destruction of the ligaments, and by changes in the bone-substance, and muscular con- traction. The patient limps decidedly, the adductor muscles are rigid, the muscles of the thigh are atrophied, and effusion into the capsule may cause broadening of the hip-joint. The limb is abducted and everted, the buttock on the affected side is flattened, the gluteal muscles being wasted, and the