29 TREATMENT OF INFLAMMATION. fibre ; hence an examination for fluctuation in a swelling situated under a muscular layer should always be made parallel with the length of the fibres of the latter. The symptom sometimes cannot be detected in abscesses, because the walls are so dense that the fluid wave cannot be felt through them, or because the cavity is not completely distended with the fluid. In the latter case pressure upon the sides of the cavity will collect the fluid in the part immediately under the fingers and bring out the sign. An aneurism or a soft, rapidly growing sarcoma has frequently been taken for an abscess, and in any doubtful case the incision should not be made until examination shows the absence of thrill and the exploring syringe has demonstrated the presence of pus. When pus is detected in an acute inflammation it should be discharged by incision at once. If an incision is postponed, the cavity of the abscess will increase, surrounding tissues will be further destroyed, vessels may be opened as their walls are softened by the solvent action of the pus, and hemorrhage take place, or vessels may be blocked and gangrene may re- sult, not to mention the danger that the abscess may burst through its wall and invade the peritoneal or the pleural cavity, or one of the hollow organs, such as the bladder or the bronchi. This bursting of the abscess may have both infectious and mechanical results, either pneumonia or suffocation being the consequence, for example, when the pus enters the bronchi. There is, moreover, a constant absorption of toxines, which can be arrested only by discharge of the pus, and no one can tell at what moment a fatal septicaemia or pyaemia may be set up. The Incision.—In a well-limited abscess a single incision is usually suf- ficient, being placed, if possible, at the most dependent portion, so that the discharge will naturally flow from the cavity by the most direct route. If the cavity is rather large, another incision may be made above to allow irri- gation. This method of making two incisions is called through drainage. Such simple abscesses will generally heal readily under a plain dressing without irrigation, a small tube or wick of gauze being placed in the in- cision until the cavity contracts. In some regions it is wise to limit the interference to the least possible extent, so as to avoid the production of disfiguring scars, but a small incision is apt to be followed by prolonged suppuration. Free incision and packing insure the most rapid and com- plete healing of the cavity, and should be the method of choice in the general treatment of abscess. When septa are found dividing an abscess- cavity, they should be broken down, for they will interfere with proper drainage, and of course all sloughs should be removed unless there is danger of hemorrhage. In making incisions to relieve tension, when the life of the parts, if not the life of the patient, is in danger, the incisions should be carried beyond the edge of the induration into healthy tissue, and the very centre of the inflammatory focus must be laid bare. In case of extensive cellulitis, it will be necessary to make incisions of great length, or a large number of moderate incisions, and if the focus is in the bones their medullary cavity must be opened up. The size and depth of the wounds are of secondary importance. In some inflammatory processes of limited extent but great