679 TREATMENT OF CLUB-FOOT. Treatment.—Treatment may be divided into mechanical and operative. Mechanical treatment by the use of apparatus necessitates also manipulation and massage, and sometimes electricity can be used with advantage. Op- erative treatment comprises forcible correction (brisement force), tenotomy, Phelps's operation (open incision), and the various bone operations. Manip- ulation should be instituted from the first in congenital cases, and practised daily, the foot being pressed into the natural position and held there while massage is applied to the contracted muscles. This must be combined with the use of a suitable shoe for retention, and will sometimes alone effect a cure. Under anaesthesia the foot can be at once over-corrected, and then can be held in that position by plaster of Paris renewed from time to time. Apparatus is designed to assist in correction, and to retain the foot in posi- tion after it has been brought into the normal position by other measures. Apparatus employed to correct the deformity depends on the application of force by elastic traction, leverage, and screw power, the appliances most widely employed being the shoes of Scarpa and Knapp, Taylor's shoe, Shaffer's modification of the same, and the elastic traction appliances of Barwell and Sayre, the latter being especially applicable to paralytic cases. As retentive apparatus, the simple plaster of Paris is very useful by itself, or when employed to hold in position felt, steel, or other materials used for support. Tenotomy.—In the severer grades of club-foot, and as an adjunct to mechanical treatment, tenotomy is of great usefulness, from the ease with which it can be performed and the amount of time saved, the foot being im- mediately straightened, although the importance of the subsequent treat- ment, carefully and continuously carried on, must never be overlooked. Subcutaneous tenotomy, or open incision of the tendons, may be employed. Tendons may also be lengthened by oblique incision or by splitting them and applying sutures. (See page 415.) Several forms of tenotomes are employed, a sharp-pointed one being often used to pierce the skin, after which a blunt- pointed knife is introduced flatwise beneath the tendon, and the section made from below upward by a to-and-fro rocking motion, the foot being held so as to render the tendon tense until it is felt to give way, when the foot is re- leased, the knife withdrawn, and the wound washed and covered with a piece of gauze. The foot is forcibly over-corrected and put up immediately in plaster of Paris. If a vessel be wounded, which is an uncommon accident if ordinary care be exercised, the bleeding can generally be easily controlled by a compress. Authors differ as to the time at which tenotomy should be resorted to in congenital cases, some practising it as early as the second or third month, while others, who lay more stress upon manipulation and mechanical measures, do not recommend it before the child is ten months or a year old. We are in favor of the latter method of treatment. After tenotomy a retention walking-shoe will be required, and after repair is complete a continuance of the daily manipulation and massage. Brisement force, or forcible correction under ether, is practised, aided by instruments capable of exerting great force, as the devices of Gibney, Mor- ton, Bradford, and Phelps. The bone operations employed in the correction of club-foot, which are required only in old and neglected cases after milder