1093 TUBERCULOSIS OF THE BLADDER. Copaiba, santal, buchu, and pareira may be useful. In cystitis limited to the neck of the bladder, such as is common after gonorrheal infection, it is well to inject from one to five drops of a strong nitrate of silver solution (from five to ten grains to the ounce) by the prostatic catheter of Ultz- mann when the bladder contains some urine or irrigating fluid, in order that the effect of the strong solution shall be limited strictly to the region at the tip of the catheter. Drainage.—When irrigation fails to produce a cure, the bladder should be drained through an incision in the perineum, above the pubes, or in the vagina in the female. The perineal opening is made as in external ure throtoniy, and the suprapubic as in suprapubic cystotomy. The vaginal incision is made by placing the patient in the lithotomy position, with a duck-bill speculum retracting the perineum. A sound is introduced into the bladder and turned over, so that its point is prominent in the vagina. The vaginal mucous membrane is incised upon the point of the sound in the median line just above the neck of the bladder. A long well-curved tenac- ulum is then made to penetrate the vesical mucous membrane at the bottom of the wound, and while it is thus steadied it is incised. The edges of the vesical and vaginal mucous membrane should be united by a few sutures around the wound, as the opening otherwise tends to contract. A large soft rubber catheter is inserted through the wound and connected with a long rubber tube passing down to a large bottle partially filled with bichloride or carbolic acid solution, so that the urine shall be delivered under the surface of the fluid, descending by the action of siphonage. The tip of the catheter should project into the bladder only just enough to permit the escape of the urine by the eye, to avoid undue irritation. Drainage of the bladder at once gives perfect rest, equalizes the circulation in the parts, and allows irriga- tion of the bladder to be carried out more efficiently. Drainage should be maintained until the urine becomes clear, and then the tube may be removed and the opening allowed to close. When suprapubic drainage is employed, the end of the catheter may be put into a urinal or a small bottle worn under the clothing, and the patient allowed out of bed. Gonorrhceal cystitis is usually confined to the neck of the bladder, and has been sufficiently described in the chapter on gonorrhoea. Tuberculosis.—Tuberculosis of the bladder often first shows itself under the guise of an acute cystitis, and suspicion is aroused only by its obstinacy. The lesions are usually in the form of ulcers, and when they are secondary to renal tuberculosis they first appear around the orifices of the ureters. The symptoms of tuberculosis may be hematuria, appearing with- out known cause, or simply frequent micturition, the urine itself being clear and with no evidence of cystitis. The diagnosis may be made by finding tubercle bacilli in the urine, or by inspection with the cystoscope or through an exploratory incision revealing tuberculous ulcers. An exploratory su- prapubic incision enables the surgeon to see the interior of the bladder and to deal at once with the tuberculous lesions if present. Treatment.—The radical treatment of tuberculosis consists in freely opening the bladder and thoroughly removing the diseased mucous mem- brane by the curette or scissors. The entire mucous lining of the organ