GUMMATA OF THE TONGUE. 759 Tertiary Syphilis of the Tongue.—The lesions of tertiary syphilis often appear many years after the primary infection, and consist of a round- cell infiltration which may result in the development of fibrous tissue, causing a sclerosed and deeply fissured condition of the tongue, or a local- ized accumulation may occur at some portion of the organ, giving rise to a gumma. The sclerotic process may involve the mucous membrane or the whole organ. In the early stage of the affection the tongue may be in- creased considerably in size, and in the later stage it becomes hard and marked by deep longitudinal fissures which extend from the tip, which is often serrated, over the dorsum of the organ. The appearance presented is very characteristic. (Fig. 675.) Gummata of the Tongue.—These growths arise from a localized round-cell infiltration, and are common in acquired syphilis, but are ex- tremely rare in the inherited dis- ease. Gummata may be superficial, Fig. 675. Syphilitic fissures of the tongue. (Museum of the German Hospital of Philadelphia.) Ulcerated gumma of the tongue. occurring in the deeper layers of the mucous membrane or in the subnm- cosa, or they may be deep, being situated in the muscular substance of the tongue. Deep gummata are usually situated in the median line of the tongue, and can be best felt from the dorsum. They are likely to break down and give rise to a gummatous or deep syphilitic ulceration. (Fig. 676.) This, if it persists for a long time and is subjected to frequent irri- tation, may become epitheliomatous in character. Treatment.—The treatment of tertiary syphilis of the tongue, either sclerotic or gummatous, consists in the use of iodide of potassium in doses of from ten to thirty grains three times a day, and in some cases the addition of biniodide of mercury, one-twenty-fourth of a grain, will be of marked benefit. In sclerosis of the tongue in the early stages, or where the parts are inflamed, the application of a lotion of chromic acid, gr. x, water, fgi, or of a solution of nitrate of silver of the same strength, will be followed by great improvement. Under the constitutional treatment gummata may disappear