726 REMOVAL OF GASSERIAN GANGLION. bleeding vessel, or by filling the open vessels with a mixture of sterilized shoemaker's wax and paraffin (Horsley). (See page 327.) The Brain.—When the dura is incised it should be opened by a semi- circular flap, and not by a crucial incision. If it is necessary to divide the cortex or to remove a part of it (for epilepsy, for instance), the vessels must first be secured by fine ligatures passed around them by blunt-pointed curved needles. If one of the sinuses is wounded, hemorrhage may be con- trolled by suture of the wall or by simple pressure with gauze, the end of the latter being brought out of the wound. When the normal brain is exposed it usually bulges into the opening and pulsates, unless the heart- action is feeble. Unusual protrusion indicates pressure by a tumor, a clot, or an abscess, and lack of pulsation shows that the tumor, blood, or pus is close to the opening in the skull. In exploration for pus or fluid a blunt instrument like a small director is to be preferred to an aspiratiug-needle, as the latter is apt to provoke troublesome hemorrhage. The various motor centres can be accurately located by touching them with a double-ended sterilized electrode through which a very weak current is passed, and ob- serving the muscles affected. A tumor may be recognized by the hard resistance felt in the depth, and a cyst or an abscess may give a sense of fluctuation. An encapsulated tumor may be shelled out with the fingers or blunt instruments, but this is to be done cautiously, because it is impos- sible to control any bleeding from the bottom of such a wound by liga- tures. If there is much hemorrhage after the removal of the tumor, the wound may be packed. A strip of gauze is to be placed in the bottom of the cavity and the end led out through the opening, a second strip is placed next to the first, and so on, the end of every strip being carried down to the bottom. Firm pressure, is then applied by a dressing. Quite severe hemorrhage may be controlled in this way without producing symp- toms of compression, if the gauze is properly inserted. Closing the Wound.—If there is no oozing, the wound may be closed, the dural flap being turned down and secured by interrupted or continuous sutures if there is not too much tension. If the dura has been removed, pieces of rubber tissue, gold-leaf, or celluloid have been inserted with suc- cess to prevent the formation of too strong adhesions between the brain and the bone or the skin-flap. Keen has suggested that a flap of pericranium be dissected up and inverted into the wound, with the bone-producing side uppermost. If there seems to be oozing, or if there is any likelihood of retention of secretions, a small drain should be inserted. If a bone-flap has been formed, it may be returned to its place and secured by sutures; if a trephine button has been removed and loose fragments have been taken from the edge, they may be replaced, the large button being broken into pieces about half an inch square. The bone should be placed in warm sterilized salt solution immediately on removal if it is intended to replace it. If the hemorrhage or shock of exposing and exploring the brain threatens to be too great, the wound may be closed and the operation resumed a few days later. Removal of the Gasserian Ganglion.—This ganglion may be re- moved by the osteoplastic operation, as suggested by Hartley and Krause.