999 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE RECTUM. applicable to lacerations of the anus and the rectum occurring as a result of parturition. Accidental wounds of the rectum received during the opera- tion of lithotomy usually heal promptly, but, as the rectal wound in these cases is low down, it is generally possible to bring together the edges by a few sutures introduced through the perineal wound. The treatment of punctured wounds of the rectum, with or without wound of the anus, consists in providing drainage by dividing the sphincter muscle, if not already divided, and the wall of the rectum, as far as the seat of injury, and, after controlling the bleeding, loosely packing the wound with a strip of iodoform gauze. Free drainage being thus established, the wound is allowed to heal by granulation : if after healing it is found that the sphincter action has been lost, a plastic operation should be undertaken to repair the divided muscle. To prevent infection after wounds or operations upon the rectum, they should be freely irrigated with antiseptic solutions and dressed with iodo- form gauze and a pad of bichloride gauze and cotton held in place by a T- bandage. When the puncture of the rectum is complicated by a wound of the peritoneum or intestines and signs of septic peritonitis are present, the abdomen should be opened and the peritoneal or intestinal wound closed with sutures, and, after flushing the abdominal cavity with warm sterilized water, a drainage-tube should be introduced and the abdominal wound closed. Burns and scalds of the anus and rectum are rare, but occasionally occur. If severe and not immediately fatal, they are apt to be followed by marked contraction, giving rise to stricture, which will necessitate a subse- quent plastic operation or colostomy. Their treatment is similar to that of burns and scalds of other parts of the body. Foreign Bodies in the Rectum.—Foreign bodies may reach the rectum by being introduced through the anus or by entering the rectum from the colon. A great variety of substances has been found in the rectum, such as nails, pins, hair-pins, stones, glass, bottles, and sticks, as well as fecal concretions. We recently removed a hard, smooth, fecal concretion, the size and shape of a hen's egg, from the rectum of a patient, where it had caused her more or less discomfort for a year. Foreign bodies which have been swallowed may lodge in the rectum and have concretions formed upon them, or the foreign body may be introduced accidentally through the anus ; hysterical subjects and those suffering from perverted sexual impulse are apt to introduce foreign bodies into the rectum. Symptoms.—If the foreign body be a small and smooth one, the symptoms caused by its presence may not be marked, consisting principally of a sense of rectal fulness and tenesmus ; if a large body be present, more or less obstruction may exist to the passage of feces, and in most cases the presence of the foreign body soon sets up a teasing diarrhoea. If the body be an irregular or hard one, its presence sooner or later causes inflamma- tion and ulceration of the rectal walls, followed by the passage of blood- stained feces and mucus with the stools, and perforation of the rectal wall with the formation of abscess and fistula may subsecpiently occur.