1151 VARICOCELE. as a hernia, which may be treated at the same time. It is also suited to cases of doubtful diagnosis, when tuberculosis or a tumor of the testicle is suspected. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. Injuries.—A wound of the cord with division of the vas deferens may result in the formation of a fistula with external discharge of the semen. Torsion of the cord has already been described in the section on the testicle. Tumors of the spermatic cord are too rare to require description. Varicocele.—The most common disease of the spermatic cord is vari- cose dilatation of its veins, a condition known as varicocele. The dilated veins sometimes form a tumor of considerable size, extending from the in- guinal ring to the testicle, and feeling like a bunch of angle-worms. The vessels may have thickened and hardened walls or may be very thin and soft to the touch. When the patient lies down the veins are emptied and the tumor disappears. A varicose condition of the veins of the scrotum is usually associated with varicocele of long standing. The scrotum is elon- gated, and the testicle upon the af- ^ 862 fected side hangs lower than the other. (Fig. 862.) The testicle in cases of long standing feels very soft and relaxed, sometimes undergoing atrophy, and if the varicocele is cured the testicle may become even smaller, a large part of its previous bulk having been made up of the swollen veins. This atrophy, how- ever, may be temporary, and the gland may regain its normal size. Varicocele attacks both sides of the scrotum in about one-twelfth of the cases, and in about the same propor- tion of the unilateral cases it occurs on the right side. The greater fre- quency of varicocele on the left side has been ascribed to certain anatomical facts—that the spermatic vein is crossed by the sigmoid flexure, that it receives branches from the colic veins, and that it enters the left renal vein at right angles to its course. The predisposing causes of varicocele are a sedentary life, neglect of the bowels, and sexual overstimulation, especially soon after puberty. It is a disease of early adult life, and usually disappears in middle age. The patients are apt to be young men of relaxed fibre, and are often neurasthenic, but varicocele may occur in very vigorous men. The patient feels a dragging sensation in the testicle, and complains of its weight, but otherwise the health is not affected, although the sexual powers are apt to be slightly impaired. Treatment.—Slight varicocele needs no treatment but the wearing of a suspensory bandage to support the testicle, a change from sedentary habits to active out-door life, and the avoidance of everything which tends to produce Varicocele.