947 TUMORS OF THE INTESTINE. Tumors.—The benign tumors of the bowel are usually polypoid. They may be adenomata, growing from the mucous membrane, or fibromata, originating from the submucous coat. Polypi are occasionally multiple, and occur in any part of the bowel. If large, they may cause obstruction, and even a small polypus, by dragging on the wall of the bowel during peristalsis, may form an intussusception. If they are recognized, they should be removed, with thorough excision of the base from which they grow. Sarcoma is rare, but occurs in both the large and the small intestine, although more frequently in the latter. It is found in young persons, forming tumors of considerable size, running a rather rapid course, and resulting in intestinal obstruction, cachexia, and death. A very early operation may offer some hope of cure, but the diagnosis is difficult in this stage. Carcinoma of the bowel is most common in the neighborhood of the ileo-csecal valve, at the flexures of the colon, and in the sigmoid. It occurs in elderly persons and in two forms. In one variety the tumor is large, making a considerable mass, which becomes adherent to the surrounding parts, but may not greatly obstruct the calibre of the bowel. In the other form the mass is very small, and when the bowel is exposed no tumor may be seen, the intestine looking as though a string had been tied around it, but on compressing the bowel between the fingers a small hard mass is felt. The diseased wall of the gut is found on section to be thickened circularly, greatly reducing the calibre of the bowel. These tumors are of slow growth, and do not involve the glands early. In both forms the symptoms are those of chronic constipation, ending in intestinal obstruction. There may be in- termittent diarrhoea and discharge of pus and blood. Pain may be present, with colicky exacerbations. Cachexia finally sets in, and death occurs about two years after the first symptoms, and sometimes sooner. If an early diagnosis can be made before the glands are infected, the tumor may be excised. After that time the obstruc- tion may be relieved by making an intes- tinal anastomosis or an artificial anus. Fecal Fistula.—A fecal fistula is an opening between the bowel and the external parts or some of the hollow viscera, such as the vagina or the bladder, or another loop of intestine. These openings are the result of accidental wounds, of inflammation with sloughing, and of ligatures applied in lapa- rotomies, but most frequently of strangu- lated hernia1, with sloughing of the bowel and sac. The internal variety usually re- quires some plastic operation in the vagina, or an extensive laparotomy with suture of both the intestine and the other organ in- volved. In the external fistula?, unless the opening is large, there is a strong tendency to spontaneous cure by cicatricial contraction, although the process is a slow one. The main obstacle to closure is the exist- ence of a bend in the bowel at the point of the fistula, so that the afferent Fig. 779. Fecal fistula with spur. (Agnew.)