1095 SYMPTOMS OF HYPERTROPHY OF THE PROSTATE. a thick bar between the ureteral orifices. (Fig. 102.) In rare cases the dis- tention is uniform without the development of bands and without much hy- pertrophy, the wall of the bladder remaining thin. The internal pressure extends backward along the ureters, dilating them, and reaches the kidney, distending its pelvis. Symptoms.—In the early stages the bladder is rather irritable, and constant attempts at micturition are made, but only a small quantity of urine can be passed at a time, and that with very little force and with dribbling at the close. The frequency of urination is greatest at night or early in the morning, and disturbs the patient's rest. The bladder is never completely emptied, from two to four ounces of urine being retained, and this residual urine, as it is called, constantly tends to increase in amount. In some cases the organ may be immensely distended, reaching the umbili- cus, and yet the patient may be unaware of its condition because he is con- stantly passing small quantities of water. When thus distended the bladder- walls are paralyzed and lose very much of their contractile force, and the sphincter is also weakened, the result being a continuous flow of urine re- sembling the dribbling of incontinence. The condition is really one of leak- age by overflow from the over-disteution of the bladder. Occasionally there are subjective symptoms of weight in the perineum and violent and painful contractions of the bladder at the end of micturition. As a rule, however, the patient is unaware of anything serious. If infection take place in such a case and a cystitis be set up, unusually serious effects are produced on account of the retention of the urine and the impaired circulation of the bladder-wall. The retained urine readily decomposes, and this decomposi- tion affects not merely the bladder but the kidney, and the symptoms of urethral fever are observed in typical form, beginning with or without a chill, and resembling in its course the pysemic curve, rising very suddenly and falling as rapidly. The patient may have headache and usually nausea, the appetite is lost, the skin feels hot and dry, the tongue is apt to be coated and brown, and acute ura?inia may set in with a speedily fatal result. All of these consequences may take place with very little alteration of the urine, the latter being slightly cloudy, but without pus or albumin. In other cases the general symptoms are less severe but the local signs are more acute, the urine then containing pus in large amounts, the micturition being frequent and becoming painful, especially at the end of the act. As a consequence of the cystitis and very early decomposition of the urine, triple phosphates are thrown down and phosphatic calculi are formed in the bladder, espe- cially in the pouch behind the prostate, where the sediment collects. The sufferings of such patients are extreme, and, owing to their advanced age, the disease is apt to terminate fatally in a short time. Local examination should be made by the finger in the rectum, which allows of accurate determination of the size, shape, and consistency of the prostate. Simultaneous pressure with the other hand above the pubes greatly assists in ascertaining the limits of the organ, and the introduction of a sound into the bladder at the same time may give additional information. The presence of a stone should always be suspected, and very careful search made for it with the sound. The quantity of residual urine should always be