876 PENETRATING WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. (traumatopncea). Emphysema of the cellular tissue in the region of the wound is also likely to be present. If the wound is extensive, the lung upon the side of the injury may collapse. Hernia of the lung may be observed. The treatment of these cases consists in controlling the bleeding and in sterilizing and closing the external wound and applying over it an antiseptic dressing. Penetrating Wounds of the Chest with Injury of the Viscera.— Penetrating wounds involving the viscera, either punctured, incised, lacer- ated, or gunshot, are always most serious injuries. When the lung has been injured, the patient expectorates blood or bloody mucus ; if the wound in the chest-wall be of considerable size, air mixed with blood may escape from the wound (traumatopncea); the lung may also be collapsed, in which case dyspnoea will be marked and pneumothorax can be clearly demon- strated. Collapse of the lung occurs from air passing into the pleura with each inspiration, and when there is a wound of the lung from air passing from it with each expiration, so that it rapidly accumulates in the pleural cavity and the lung collapses. Emphysema of the tissues surrounding the wound may also be present. Prolapse of the lung may be observed in this class of wounds, and is most apt to occur in extensive wounds of the pleural sac; the protrusion taking place during expiration or a forced expiratory effort, owing to the fact that during expiration the air in the lung is under pressure, and when the support of the chest-wall is removed a part of the lung may yield to the pressure of the contained air and be forced through the wound. Free bleeding from the external wound usually indicates an injury of the intercostal or internal mammary arteries or of the great vessels. Hemor- rhage is probably one of the earliest and most fatal complications of these wounds, and, as previously stated, may arise from injury to the heart, the great vessels, or the intercostal or internal mammary arteries, or from wounds of the azygos veins. We have seen a stab wound of the chest in- flicted by a small knife cause death by hemorrhage from the latter veins. We have had recently under our care a young man who had a pick driven into the right side of his chest, producing a lacerated penetrating wound about two and a half inches in length, which separated two ribs from their costal cartilages and also lacerated the lung. In this case there were marked dyspnoea, expectoration of bloody, frothy mucus, escape of air and blood from the external wound, and collapse of the right lung, and the heart and pericardium were displaced to the right side so that they could be seen and felt at the bottom of the wound. This patient, although extremely ill for a few days, finally recovered. Treatment.—The treatment of penetrating wounds of the chest with wounds of the viscera will depend upon the nature of the wound and the extent of injury of the viscera. If hemorrhage be present, this should receive the first attention ; if from the position of the wound it is probable that the bleeding arises from the intercostal or internal mammary arteries, the wound should be enlarged and the tissues ligated en masse, or the vessels sought for and ligatured. Difficulty may be experienced in exposing an intercostal artery, in which case a portion of the rib may be excised, or a ligature may be carried around the rib, by which procedure the vessel may