1190 OPERATIONS FOR DISPLACEMENTS OF THE UTERUS. until it enters without pressure upon the urethra. (Fig. 910, A.) The pes- sary then readily slips into the vagina, where it must be turned around into by an operation, but in some cases it is necessary to postpone the operation on account of the patient's health or for other reasons, and then pessaries are a useful temporary expedient. Sometimes a retroversion pessary will relieve the symptoms of anteversion or anteflexion, by lifting the uterus and lessening the pressure upon the bladder, which is the most urgent symptom of this condition. Operations for Retroversion and Prolapse.—Many operations have been introduced for the correction of displacements of the uterus. Ventral Fixation.—For simple descent or prolapse, as well as for back- ward displacements of the uterus, hysterorrhaphy, or ventral fixation of the organ, may be done, securing the fundus to the anterior abdominal wall just above the pubes. A small median laparotomy wound is made, the fundus is drawn close to the abdominal wall, and deep sutures are passed through the edges of the abdominal wound and the fundus; or buried sutures are inserted through the fundus and the deeper layers of the ab- dominal wound. Shortening the Round Ligaments.—Alexander's operation for shorten- ing the round ligaments may also be employed for these conditions, as follows. The ligaments are exposed by a dissection at the external inguinal ring, and are drawn out of the ring, the uterus being lifted up at the same time by an assistant's finger in the vagina, as the round ligaments may not be strong enough to bear the strain of the organ by themselves. It is generally advisable to incise the inguinal canal somewhat in order to draw the ligaments well down. The sheath of peritoneum which accompanies the Introduction of Hodge pessary. (Madden.) Fig. 910. proper position. The index finger is introduced, and the upper bar is placed behind the cervix. (Fig. 910, B.) The use of pessaries must be discontinued if it is found that in spite of careful adjustment ul- ceration is caused by their pressure, as there is then danger of septic infection and of malignant disease. Pessaries which are supported by a band passing up to a waistband are uncomfortable to wear, and when they are efficient in holding the uterus in position the pressure is usually so great that ulceration is almost certain to occur, so that their use cannot be recommended. A pessary is only palliative; it does not cure. In the majority of cases of displacement of the uterus se- vere enough to warrant the use of a pessary a cure can be obtained