746 DISEASES OF THE NASAL SINUSES. cranial infection occurs readily, and great attention must be paid to drain- age. If a wound exists, the sinus should be drained through it, and if there is no wound, a trephine opening must be made into the sinus upon the first indication of any infection extending towards the brain. Distention of the Sinus.—The opening into the frontal sinus (the in- fundibulum) can be reached, but with difficulty, through the nose with a probe, and should be sought at the anterior end of the middle turbinated bone. The retention of secretion in the sinus by obstruction of the in- fundibulum by a polypus or by inflammatory swelling causes severe frontal headache, often limited to one side, with tenderness over the sinus, and occa- sionally an intermittent discharge of mucus or pus, particularly when the patient raises his head after being long in a recumbent position. If the retention is complete, and particularly if pus forms in the sinus, causing an empyema, the sinus is distended, its wall naturally giving way where it is the thinnest, towards the orbit and the nose. This may result in diplopia, owing to the displacement of the eyeball, and choked disk may follow. There may be an intermittent discharge of mucus, or possibly lachrymation, and if the infection is severe there may be fever and chills, and meningitis may follow. The method of lighting up parts of the face by means of the electric light in a dark room may be employed in the diagnosis, the lamp being enclosed in an opaque capsule with one open side which is applied to the forehead, just above the sinus, so that the light shines through the bone. The normal sinus appears as a bright spot, but one containing pus remains dark. The treatment of empyema consists in drainage, and to establish this successfully through the nose by way of the infundibulum is seldom possible. As a rule, it is best to make a small incision in the eye- brow after shaving it, expose the bone, and make a small trephine-opening, or cut away the anterior wall of the sinus with a chisel. After the sinus has been opened a small drainage-tube may be passed through the infun- dibulum into the nose. Frequent irrigation is necessary afterwards. The operation should be done as early as possible, in order to avoid necrosis. Foreign bodies are sometimes deposited in the sinus, such as pistol- balls, or fragments of weapons or missiles, and they should be sought for and removed when the sinus is wounded. Insects have also been known to find their way up into the sinus through the nose, and their removal is exceed- ingly difficult. The patient should inhale chloroform, in the hope that the vapor may kill the insect; but an empyema is apt to follow from the infection caused by the dead insect. Tumors occur in the frontal sinus, bony, myxomatous, and fibrous, and also malignant. The most common is osteoma, which arises especially from the cribriform plate and grows to a considerable size, sometimes perforating the orbit. The osteomata are liable to necrosis, the small pedicle breaking off and interrupting the blood-supply. The result of the necrosis is a septic condition and sometimes meningitis, which explains the very high mortality in operations for these necrotic tumors. Malignant tumors of the sinus usu- ally begin with the symptoms of an empyema, and it is impossible to make the diagnosis until they show themselves externally, although the pain which they occasion is especially severe and continuous.