866 LARYNGOTOMY. Ulceration of the trachea may arise from improperly shaped or badly fitting tracheotomy-tubes ; it may be suspected when the tube, if a silver one, becomes blackened and there are fetor of the breath and expectoration of purulent and blood-stained discharge. The treatment consists in removing the badly fitting tube and replacing it by a proper one, and applying to the ulcerated surface a ten-grain solution of nitrate of silver. Difficulty in the Permanent Removal of the Tracheotomy-Tube. —This is due in some cases to mechanical causes, such as the growth of granulations in the trachea or the wound, or in the larynx, inflammatory hypertrophy of the vocal cords, adhesion between the cords, paralysis of the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles, spasm of the glottis, or stenosis of the trachea above the seat of operation. In other cases the operation seems to produce irritability and disordered action of the muscles of the glottis, interrupting their usual rhythm, the patient being somewhat in the position of one with paralysis of the vocal cords. In many cases mental agitation plays an important part in preventing the removal of the tube. We have often seen children who could breathe comfortably through the larynx when the tube was plugged, who, when it had been removed and the tracheal wound had been closed with a pad or an obturator, exhibited great mental agitation, and developed such alarming symptoms of dyspnoea that the re- introduction of the tube became necessary. In such cases the fright caused by the removal of the tracheotomy tube often produces a nervous and excita- ble condition, with irregular respiration, and sobbing, which seems to induce spasm of the glottis. The permanent removal of the tracheotomy-tube, even when much delayed, should not be despaired of. The tube should be removed at intervals and replaced as soon as symptoms of dyspnoea appear ; a most satisfactory method of removing the tube in these cases consists in introducing an intubation-tube into the larynx, which is worn until the wound in the trachea has healed. Tracheotomy in Adults.—The operation of tracheotomy in adults, whether performed for inflammatory conditions, for pressure upon the trachea, or for foreign bodies in the trachea, is usually a much simpler op- eration than in infants or children, for the reason that the surgeon has the co-operation of the patient, and the trachea is more superficial. The steps of the operation are very similar to those in the operation upon children. The most difficult tracheotomies in adults are those in which the operation is done for stenosis of the trachea or larynx produced by tumors of the neck. In such cases a very limited portion of the trachea may be accessible for operation, or it may be so much displaced by the growth that its ana- tomical relations are greatly disturbed. LARYNGOTOMY. This is an operation in which an opening is made into the larynx through the crico thyroid membrane, and is more frequently employed in adults than in children. It is a simple operation, and can therefore be performed much more rapidly and safely in urgent cases than tracheotomy. The pa- tient being placed in the recumbent posture, with the shoulders slightly elevated and the head thrown back to make the neck as prominent as pos-