TREATMENT OF THE PEDICLE. 920 testinal obstruction may result from the displaced intestine, and bleeding also may occur after the position is changed. Peritoneal adhesions are separated with the fingers, and experience is necessary to determine the amount of force which it is safe to employ. If the adhesions are very dense, they may be dissected off with the scissors or the knife, under control of the eye ; or, if they are band-like, they may be divided between two clamps or two ligatures. Treatment of Pedicles.—The pedicles of tumors are tied off by passing double ligatures through them with an aneurism-needle or ligature-passer (Fig. 767), dividing the loop, making the two strands cross, and then tying Fig. 767. Cleveland's ligature-passer. each pair of ends upon opposite sides of the pedicle. Instead of crossing the ends, after cutting the loop a knot may be tied in the two strands near the middle and the knot then drawn into the centre of the pedicle, when any two ends from opposite sides may be tied without delay. For small tumors Tait's Staffordshire knot is convenient ; it is made by leaving the loop of the ligature uncut, slipping it over the tumor and over one of the free ends of the thread, drawing both ends of the thread until the loop is pulled tight around the pedicle, and then tying the ends across the thread of the loop as it lies between them. (Fig. 768.) In a broad, fiat pedicle the knot should be tied upon the edge of the pedicle. The tumor can then be cut away, leaving sufficient tissue beyond the ligature to prevent the Fig. 768. Fig. 1. Fig. 2. Fig. Fig. 4. Staffordshire knot for pedicle: ss, section of pedicle ; a, loop of silk passed through pedicle; 6 and c ends of the ligature to be tied. Fig. l.-First step.-ligature passed through the pedicle. Fig. 2.-L001.of ligature a thrown over the tumor so as to surround pedicle and lie upon the ends, 6 and c. Fig. 3.-Tne ena c drawn through the loop so as to lie over it, b remaining under it. Fig. 4.-Loop drawn tightly around pedicle and a single twist or knot taken with ends of ligature. (Byford.) thread from slipping off. In some cases, as in the broad ligament, the pedicle may be too broad and flat to allow of a single ligature, and a number