ULCER. 36 cieut to account for it. The febrile movement may be accompanied by nausea, delirium or somnolence, flushed face, and diminished high-colored urine. The formation of the abscesses, or the beginning of inflammation in a fresh place, is not always accompanied by pain ; in fact, pain is rather rare in pyaemia. The surgeon should make a daily routine examination of the entire body, for he will often be astonished by discovering new abscesses, inflammation of additional joints, or a fresh endocarditis or pleuritis, which have developed within twenty-four hours without any symptoms. The sub- cutaneous abscesses and the synovitis of superficial joints will present much less tenderness, tension, and redness of the surrounding skin than are usual in such inflammations. As the disease progresses, great prostration ensues, diarrhoea sets in, the delirium or somnolence passes into a low typhoid mental state, and the patient dies from exhaustion. This fatal result usually takes place within two weeks, but it may be postponed for months. As a rule, the chronic cases are more likely ultimately to recover. The milder cases, however, may suddenly sink into a hopeless condition, and even the desperate cases will in rare instances slowly improve, and recovery may take place, with a convalescence pro- tracted through months. Besides the well-marked cases there are others of a doubtful character and very chronic course, in which the original seat of infection may be some unrecognized or neglected inflammatory condition in the urethra or in the nose, for examine, the only symptoms being the ap- pearance from time to time of indolent abscesses, such as have been described, with very slight febrile disturbance, which is apt to be ascribed to chronic malarial poisoning. We have seen such a case run a course of two years, with subcutaneous abscesses and synovitis of the knee-joint, the final out- come being unknown to us, in which the primary infection was probably in the urethra, but no gonococci could ever be found in the pus of the secondary lesions. The prognosis in pyaemia is best when the abscesses are limited to the cellular tissues, not so good when a joint has been involved, and very bad if abscesses occur in any of the viscera. Treatment.—The treatment of pyaemia is the usual supporting one to be employed in septic affections, and all suppurating foci must be opened and thoroughly drained as soon as detected. Every branch of the irregular cavities must be discovered and drained at the most dependent part, and the sinuses must be carefully examined daily in order that no pocketing take place, for they have a peculiar tendency to burrow in every direction. ULCER, SINUS, EISTULA. In connection with inflammation, especially with the chronic form, we must consider three allied conditions, ulcer, sinus, and fistula, which are among its results, but are classified apart because of their clinical impor- tance. Ulcer.—An ulcer may be defined as a loss of continuity upon one of the free surfaces of the body which shows no tendency to heal. Ulceration is the process of molecular gangrene of a superficial part which results in the production of an ulcer, and this term should not be applied to indicate the