WOUNDS OF THE SPINAL CORD. 895 Thirdly, the paralytic type of patients have a marked loss of power or even complete paralysis of one or more groups of muscles, especially of the lower extremities, and localized patches of anaesthesia. In all cases there is an exaggeration of the reflexes. These symptoms do not, as a rule, begin until some hours or days after the accident which causes them. It cannot be said that any one of these types is more difficult to cure or more likely to result in permanent disability than the others. Occasionally the symp- toms disappear suddenly and completely without any adequate explanation, and if this disappearance happens to coincide with the winning of large damages in a lawsuit, great discredit may be thrown upon the patient and the experts, but unjustly, for many cases are on record in which even the winning of the suit has not succeeded in effecting a cure. Lawsuits, whether successful or not, are a detriment to a patient in this condition, for what he most needs is rest and freedom from responsibility and care. Treatment.—Complete rest is the only method of treatment, except the administration of the usual tonics, hot and cold baths, massage, and gentle exercise, with a free out-door life. Occasionally some counter-irritation by a thorough cauterization over the spine is of advantage. Laceration and contusion of the spinal cord, if extensive, is marked by paralysis corresponding to the portion of the cord involved, and is usually associated with severe fractures or dislocations of the spinal column. A complete recovery may take place even in severe cases, although this is usually slow. Compression of the spinal cord may be caused by dis- placed bone (from fracture or spinal caries), by blood-clot, or by FlG a foreign body, such as a rifle-ball lodging in the canal. (Fig. 758.) A hemorrhage into the spinal membranes or the cord causes intense pain in the back, hyper- esthesia, muscular spasm, rigid- ity, the feeling of a cord tied about the waist, and rapidly de- veloping paralysis, which is most complete when the clot is in the cord itself. In compression caused by bone the symptoms appear immediately at the time of the injury, they are apt to be more serious, and they may be permanent even after the bone has been removed. The location and the extent of the injury may be de- termined by the extent and the degree of the paralysis. Wounds of the Spinal Cord.—The cord may be completely divided by fractured or dislocated bones of the spinal column, and also by pene- trating wounds by a knife, gunshot, or other missile. In the latter cases cerebro spinal fluid may escape from the wound. These injuries may be of very limited extent and sharply defined, and they then produce clear-cut Gunshot fracture of cervical vertebra, showing croaching on spinal canal. ball en-