870 INTUBATION OF THE LARYNX. the legs of the patient should be secured by being held between the knees of the nurse. The head of the patient is next secured by being held between the open hands of an assistant placed upon each side of the head and cheeks; the left hand of the assistant may also be used in steadying the mouth-gag after it has been introduced. (Fig. 750.) It is possible to introduce the tube with the child in the recumbent posture ; this we have done on several occasions when from the condition of the cir- culation we did not think it advisable to lift the patient to the sitting posture. The child being held as described above, facing the surgeon, who sits upon a chair within easy reach of the patient, he opens the mouth and introduces the blades of the mouth-gag be- tween the molar teeth upon the left side ; the blades are next opened by compressing the handles of the gag, and the mouth opened as widely as possible. The surgeon passes the index finger of the left hand into the pharynx and feels for the epiglottis, which is hooked forward by the end of the finger. The tube attached to the introducer, held in the right hand, is next passed into the mouth and carried back to the pharynx, the operator being careful to see that it hugs the base of the tongue in the mid- dle line, that the handle is depressed well upon the child's chest, and-that the silken thread is free. When the extremity of the tube comes in contact with the end of the finger resting upon the epiglottis, the handle should be raised as it engages in the larynx and descends into this organ ; and as it is pushed downward into place, the finger is placed upon the head of the tube to fix it and prevent its being withdrawn with the obturator. The trigger is next pressed, the introducer and obturator are drawn from the mouth by depressing the handle upon the chest, and before removing the finger it is well to push the tube well into the larynx. As soon as the obturator is removed there is generally a violent expira- tory effort, with coughing, accompanied by a gush of muco-purulent matter or membrane from the tube, and after this escapes the breathing is usually satisfactorily established. If the operator has passed the tube into the pharynx or the oesophagus, and has detached it from the introducing instru- ment, no improvement in the respiration takes place, and it should then be withdrawn by the silk loop and attached to the obturator, and another attempt made to introduce it into the larynx.