DIAGNOSIS OF ANEURISM. 359 The artery may have been occluded by the process, and a cure thus be brought about; this, however, is not common, hemorrhage in such cases being a frequent cause of death. Rupture of the Sac.—Diffused aneurism from this cause is attended by much the same symptoms as mark the onset of inflammation, diminished pulsation, loss of outline, etc., except that the temperature of the part is generally reduced. There is also much greater obstruction of the circulation beyond, gangrene often ensuing from loss of the arterial circulation and the increased venous obstruction. The collection of blood may become circum- scribed by the formation of an adventitious sac, and a return of pulsation occur. More commonly suppuration sets in, with external rupture and death from hemorrhage. If rupture takes place into a cavity or on the surface of the body, death is rapid. On mucous surfaces there is generally a prolonged weeping of blood before the final rupture, the opening being of small size ; whereas on serous surfaces it is large and stellate, death being correspondingly rapid. Gangrene is usually preceded by venous obstruc- tion, and is therefore nearly always of the moist variety, and is not an uncommon complication in aneurisms of the extremities. Pressure.—Pressure on the trachea, oesophagus, heart, and phrenic and pneumogastric nerves sometimes causes death. Syncope as a cause of death is most frequent in aortic aneurism, and is due to sudden failure of the left ventricle to propel the great quantity of blood in the sac. Diagnosis.—Numerous cases are on record in which aneurisms have been mistaken for abscesses and opened with fatal results. Every swelling, therefore, in the line of an artery should be carefully examined with a view of excluding aneurism before an operation is attempted. Abscesses and tumors situated over blood-vessels may be mistaken for aneurisms by reason of transmitted pulsation, and certain malignant pulsating tumors, as osteo- sarcomata and encephaloids, closely simulate aneurism. From a tamor or an abscess over a vessel the diagnosis is made by the expansile pulsation, differ- ing from the up-and-down movement of the former, the pulsation of the tumor disappearing when it is lifted away from the vessel, by the decrease in size when the artery is compressed above, and also on direct pressure, and by the bruit, which may be simulated by a tumor compressing a normal artery. In abscess, signs of inflammation aid in diagnosis. A diffused aneurism with loss of pulsation and beginning inflammation may closely simulate an abscess, but is commonly attended with marked obstruction in the circulation, which, with the history of the case, and perhaps recourse to exploratory puncture, will assist in a correct diagnosis. Auscultation and percussion, with secondary pressure-symptoms and alterations in the pulse, are of especial value in the diagnosis of intrathoracic aneurism. From pul- sating tumors with bruit and thrill the diagnosis may be very difficult. They occur in early life and often in other regions than those affected by aneurism, they are not decreased in size by pressure on the artery above, nor are they much altered by direct pressure. They are not so sharply circumscribed, and pulsation and bruit vary in different parts of the tumor, and when of bony origin the bone from which they spring is commonly altered in shape. In the abdominal aorta we often find in neurasthenic females a violent pulsa-