PELViC HEMATOCELE. 1212 sions are found, and they are not extensive, the procedure may be the same, the adhesions being separated as the cyst is drawn out of the abdo- men by careful sponging, or by dividing them between two ligatures. If extensive adhesions are found, however, the incision should be enlarged, and the adhesions separated freely before the sac is punctured by the trocar, so that the operation can be abandoned with safety if it is found that the adhesions are too serious to permit removal of the tumor. If the bowel is too adherent to the sac to allow of separation, the adherent loop may be resected and the two ends united by Murphy's button or by sutures. If several loops are adherent, it will be best to abandon the operation. If the large intestine is resected for adhesious, the ends may be sutured, or they may be included in the abdominal wound and an artificial anus established which can be remedied later. The adhesions which are most frequent and easiest to deal with are those to the omentum, for they are readily tied off. Adhesions to the parietal peritoneum may compel the sacrifice of a portion of that membrane. When the adhesions are extensive there is usually con- siderable oozing from the raw surfaces left by their separation, and it is best to drain after operations in such cases. Occasionally it will be necessary to leave portions of the cyst adherent at various points, in which case their epithelial surfaces should be thoroughly removed by the curette or the cautery. PELVIC HEMATOCELE. Pelvic hematocele is a collection of blood in the pelvis, either external to the peritoneum or within its cavity. Intraperitoneal hematocele (Fig. 922) usually derives its blood from the Fallopian tubes in menstrua- tion, although it may come from a vessel in a ruptured Graafian follicle or from ruptured adhesions in hemorrhagic peritonitis, a form of peritonitis similar to pachymeningitis hemorrhagica, with many new thin-walled Fig. 922. Fig. 923. Intraperitoneal hematocele. (Agnew.) Extraperitoneal haematoeele. (Agnew.) blood-vessels. Extraperitoneal haematoeele (Fig. 923) may be caused by the rupture of a vein in the cellular tissue. These hemorrhages are most frequent in young women, and are apt to occur during menstruation. Hematocele is not a very common condition, and probably many of the