720 EPILEPSY. the symptoms are more constant, than in abscess. The greatest difficulty in the diagnosis of abscess is the tendency of the disease to become latent. Treatment.—In the early stages of an acute encephalitis originating from an infected wound the establishment of thorough antisepsis in the wound and the removal of all sloughs are the first steps in the treatment. Sedatives may be administered, and ice applied over the head. When it is certain that abscess has occurred from traumatism or ear disease, opera- tion should be done as early as it is possible to make the diagnosis. To o-pen the temporo-sphenoidal abscesses we may follow Von Bergmann's ride : "the field of operation is indicated by four lines, the upper limit being a line five centimetres above the zygoma and parallel to it, the posterior limit vertical to the base-line of the skull and situated at the posterior border of the mastoid, the anterior limit a line parallel to the second, drawn through the temporo-maxillary articulation; and the lower border of the opening should be not less than one centimetre from the root of the zy- goma." The opening is to be a liberal one, at least three centimetres wide. If no pus is found between the dura and the bone, the dura should be opened. If pus is found outside of the dura, the pus-cavity must be thor- oughly cleansed before the dura is incised. If it seems probable that the symptoms are due only to the extradural collection of pus, the dura should be left untouched, but it should be opened if there is absence of pulsation, or if fluctuation can be felt underneath. When the dura is opened we may find a localized collection of pus on the surface of the brain beneath the dura, but this is rare, a deep abscess being the rule. The brain-substance must be explored with the most careful asepsis. It is better to make this exploration with some blunt instrument, like a narrow director, than with an aspirating needle, because the latter may cause troublesome hemorrhage. If pus is obtained, the opening should be enlarged by dilatation and the cavity drained with a tube or wick of gauze. It is unwise to use irrigation. Epilepsy.—It was formerly supposed that trephining would cure epi- leptic convulsions by the simple relief of intracranial pressure, but the results were so unsatisfactory that the operation fell into disuse. The modern operations, however, depend upon the exact localization of the lesion and its removal. Epileptic convulsions may be the result of some general condition or of a limited cerebral lesion. When the habit of convulsive attacks has once been formed by a cortical irritation which is only local in its primary effects, the tendency is for the general disease to be developed, and the con- vulsions continue even after the local cause has been removed. Epileptic convulsions are among the symptoms of various diseases, such as tumors, abscesses, and other conditions, which cause diminution of the space within the skull. They may be the result of peripheral nervous irritation set up by an adherent or painful scar on the head or limbs, and many cures have been produced by the removal of such scars. They are also caused by ad- hesions between the brain and the membranes, by cicatricial tissue in the brain, or by the pressure of a bony point the result of a depressed fracture. (Fig. 646.) These causes may be divided into two classes, traumatic and pathological. In many cases a clear history of previous injury can be ob- tained, and a scar or depression is found on the outside of the skull.