578 DISLOCATION OF THE INFERIOR RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. ilized, and the surgeon may either reduce the displaced bone or, what seems to us the wiser procedure, make a partial excision of the joint, that is, if possible, remove the lower portion of the humerus and allow the articular surface of the ulna to come in contact with the sawn surface of the humerus. In compound dislocations of the elbow associated with fracture no definite rule can be given for excisiug portions of certain bones, the rule in such cases being to remove fragments involved in the fracture. After removing the necessary amount of bone, the wound should be drained and closed and a copious antiseptic dressing applied, and the arm secured upon an internal or an anterior angular splint. If the surgeon has succeeded in preventing infection of the wound, the repair in these cases is often very prompt, and the functional results following partial excision when associated with frac- ture we think are superior to those following the simple reduction of the displaced bone. Dislocation of the Inferior Radio-Ulnar Articulation.—This dislocation consists in a separation of the lower extremity of the ulna from the semilunar cavity of the radius, and the ulua may be displaced either backward or forward. The injury is often associated with fracture of the lower end of the radius. Backward Dislocation.—This usually results from extreme and vio- lent pronation of the hand, and may be associated with a fracture of the carpal extremity of the radius. The posterior radio-ulnar and sacciform ligaments are often ruptured, and the triangular interarticular cartilage is disconnected at its apex from the root of the styloid process of the ulna. Symptoms.—The symptoms of this injury are a movable prominence at the back of the wrist at the inner side, the styloid process of the ulna being no longer in line with the fifth metacarpal bone. The hand is in a state of supination, and the fingers are flexed. Treatment.—To reduce this dis- placement the hand should be extended, to relax the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle, and the displaced bone at the same time should be pressed directly backward into the semilunar cavity. There is often a strong tendency to the reproduction of the displacement, which can be counteracted by the use of a firm compress placed over the posterior surface of the bone, and the appli- cation of a straight padded or Bond's splint; this should not be removed permanently for three or four weeks. After the removal of the splint it is wise to give some fixation to the part by strapping the wrist with rubber plaster or by the use of a compress and bandage for a considerable time. Forward Dislocation.—This displacement is caused by violent supina- tion of the hand, and is usually accompanied by rupture of the anterior ligaments of the joint. Symptoms.—A prominence may be felt under the palmar surface of the wrist, somewhat to the radial side, and it will be noticed that the prominence of the lower end of the ulna at the back of the wrist is absent; the hand is supinated. Treatment.—The forearm should be flexed, and extension made from the hand and counter-extension from the arm. By forced pronation, and by pressing the head of the ulna back- ward, it may be made to take its natural position in the semilunar cavity of the radius. Having reduced the deformity, the forearm should be fixed by two well-padded straight splints, the dr essing being similar to that em-