INHERITED SYPHILIS. 1043 tration in the skin, not extending into the subcutaneous tissue ; it shows a tendency to be circinate in distribution, and is dry or ulcerative. On the face the ulcerative form is common, and may destroy large portions of the nose and lij>s, owing to its progressive nature and occasional phagedenic properties. A gumma consists of a mass of round cells, with giant and epithelioid cells, intermingled with a circumscribing layer of condensed con- nective tissue. There is also some new blood-vessel formation, but in the centre there is a tendency to myxomatous, fatty, or caseous degeneration. The gumma starts as a firm nodule beneath, and at first unattached to, the skin, single or multiple, and with a tendency to soften and discharge through the ulcerated overlying skin, the gummatous ulcer remaining as an indo- lent, circumscribed, circular sore, with thickened edges, leaving after cica- trization a smooth, white, depressed scar. It is especially liable to become serpiginous on the abdomen. Osseous and joint lesions occur both in the secondary and in the tertiary stage, more commonly in the latter. (See pages 538, 603.) Dactylitis is quite common in the hereditary form, and is rare in acquired syphilis, existing in two forms, either (1) starting from the subcutaneous and fibrous tissues of the joints, or (2) involving the bone and periosteum primarily. Syphilis of the testicle causes a hard, smooth, painless enlargement of the whole organ, which rarely ulcerates. Excep- tionally localized gummata can be made out, but, as a rule, the general shape and outline are preserved. If arrested by early treatment the function of the organ is preserved. Among the syphilitic affections of the nervous system are meningitis, epilepsy, paraplegia, hemiplegia (following rup- ture of diseased blood-vessels), and gummata of the brain and cord. The nerve-structures themselves are probably not affected primarily by syphi- lis, their involvement being secondary to connective-tissue and blood-vessel changes. Inherited Syphilis.—Syphilis in the secondary stage is very frequently transmitted to the offspring. Tertiary syphilis is not generally transmissi- ble. For syphilis to be transmitted it is probably necessary that the mother should be infected—that is, the father cannot transmit syphilis, the mother remaining healthy; this is denied by Kassowitz and others, including Taylor. That the mother is syphilitic is rendered more probable by the fact that she cannot contract the disease from her syphilitic child (Colles's law), although she herself may seem perfectly free from the disease. If a healthy woman acquires syphilis during pregnancy her child may inherit the disease, especially if infection takes place before the sixth month, as pointed out by Eicord. Later than this the child usually escapes, although in Chabalier's case the child contracted it during the eighth month. Abor- tions are very frequent in syphilitic women, occurring about the sixth month, associated with disease of the placenta and the expulsion of a macerated fetus showing visceral lesions and perhaps pemphigus of the hands and feet. After several abortions the woman may give birth to a living child, which usually shows no signs of disease until the third week, although in some cases the eruption is present from the first. The infant then shows signs of malnutrition, becomes thin and wizened, and presents a prematurely old appearance. The early eruptions are superficial and gen-