240 DEPRESSED CICATRIX. Fig. 165. inata, which often project above the surface of the surrounding tissue. The ulcer may cause little discomfort for a long time, or it may gradually increase in size, become the seat of intense pain, and be accompanied by free and offensive discharge. A few cases of this affection have come under our observation in cicatrices of gunshot wounds or burns of many years' duration. A warty ulcer of the leg in the cicatrix of a gunshot wound received during the war of the rebel- lion is shown in Fig. 165. Treatment.—The treatment of this affec- tion consists in dissecting out the ulcer com- pletely when it is possible, and in filling the gap by sliding flaps of skin; in other posi- tions, such as the extremities, when the bones may be involved and the growth cannot be completely removed, amputation should be re- sorted to. Depressed Cicatrix.—This form of cica- trix is very common after the healing of wounds involving bone or the soft tissues when there has been a loss of substance. The best exam- ples of depressed cicatrices are seen after the healing of wounds from operations for necrosis and caries, and in those cicatrices observed after suppuration of the cervical lymphatic glands. As a rule, these cicatrices require no treatment except when upon exposed surfaces of the body, as the face or the neck, where their presence causes disfigurement. Treatment.—When the depressed cicatrix is small we have employed with good results the operation devised by Adams, which consists in intro- ducing a tenotome under the cicatrix from one edge and dissecting it loose from its subcutaneous attachments; two harelip pins are then passed at right angles to each other through the skin, and are passed under the loosened cicatrix to hold it upon a level with the surrounding skin. An antiseptic dressing should next be applied, and at the end of three or four days the pins are removed, at which time a blood-clot has filled up the cavity under the cicatrix, which, becoming organized, prevents subsequent depression of the scar. In extensive and deeply depressed cicatrices connected with bone the deformity may be much relieved by making a longitudinal incision through the tissues at the deepest portion of the cicatrix, dissecting each flap loose from the bone, and then filling the cavity with bone chips and bringing the edges of the flaps together over them with sutures. In an extensive and deep cicatrix following the removal of a cyst of the lower jaw we suc- ceeded by this operation in relieving the disfigurement very satisfactorily. Contracting Cicatrix.—The most troublesome deformities which are brought to the surgeon for correction are those resulting from the con- traction of cicatrices of burns and scalds. The deformities in these cases are Warty ulcer, or epithelioma, developing in cicatrix of gunshot injury.