62 LEPROSY. into the focus or cavity to be treated in as large amounts as possible, but generally only a small quantity can be forced into the solid masses. Only in the case of cold abscesses is an overdose to be feared, and it is safe to use fifteen grains of iodoform at a time. The iodoform-ether has the disad- vantage of causing great pressure from the formation of vapor at the body temperature, and the emulsions are quite as effective. We have also used iodoform-vaseline (ten per cent.) liquefied by heat for injection. The injec- tion should be carried out with full asepsis, the needle or canula and syringe boiled, the skin disinfected, and the solution sterilized by repeated heating in the Arnold sterilizer for from five to ten minutes at a time ; or the iodo- form can be washed in 1 to 1000 bichloride of mercury solution, and the glycerin sterilized separately by heat, for long-continued heating or a high temperature decomposes the iodoform. Bier's " Constriction."—The effect of these various methods in a limb can be increased by constriction with a rubber band, as suggested by Bier, so as to induce a venous hypersemia, which acts either by the direct effect of the venous blood, or by retarding the circulation and causing an accu- mulation of the toxines of the tubercle bacillus in the parts, and the con- sequent poisoning of the germs themselves. Scrofula is a term applied to a certain constitutional state in which there is an unusual tendency to tuberculous infection. It is marked by a fair complexion, rather abundant but flabby adipose tissues, thin red mucous membranes, and enlarged lymphatic glands ; or by a dark complexion, with prominent red or pale lips, a very transparent waxy skin, and unusually marked blue veins. Both types are liable to anaemia, lassitude (although in some instances there is a certain spasmodic energy), a tendency to catarrhal inflammation of the nose and throat (often associated with the lymphatic enlargement in these regions, or adenoids), and a generally lowered power of resistance to infectious diseases. Although the majority of these individ- uals succumb to tuberculosis sooner or later, the close resemblance between many of their traits and those of hereditary syphilis in its mild forms can- not be denied. The term scrofula may be antiquated, but the clinical picture is practically useful, indicating, as it does, a generally weakened power of resistance. LEPROSY. Lepra, Elephantiasis Graecorum, Leontiasis.—Leprosy is an infec- tious disease, probably caused by the bacillus lepraB, characterized by cuta- neous eruptions and by inflammatory infiltrations in the skin, mucous mem- branes, peripheral nerves, lymph-nodes, and certain viscera. The bacillus leprae is a slender rod, 5 micromillimetres long and 0.4 micromillimetre thick, closely resembling the bacillus tuberculosis, even in staining, but more easily decolorized. It is found in the local lesions and in the blood during the last stages of the disease, but not in the natural secretions or urine, although it occurs in the muco-purulent discharge of the ulcerated mucous membranes. It has been observed only in man, and all attempts at isolation and cultivation have failed, as indeed have attempts at direct inoculation with material from ulcers, except in one doubtful case. The disease, however, is undoubtedly contagious by close and long contact,