EXCISION OF THE TONGUE. 764 Fig. 679. Kocher's Operation.—This operation is the most satisfactory one when the floor of the month or the jaw is involved in the growth. A preliminary tracheotomy is performed, and the pharynx is plugged with a sterilized sponge. An incision is then made from a point just below the mastoid process, and is carried down the anterior edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoid to its middle ; at this point it is carried across the neck to the hyoid bone, and from the middle of this bone to the chin. (Fig. 679.) The flap marked out by this incision is then carefully dissected up and turned upward on the cheek. The lingual and facial arteries and any large veins are ligatured ; the lym- phatic glands and submaxillary and sublingual sali- vary glands are removed. The lingual artery upon the opposite side is tied through a separate incision. The mucous membrane along the jaw and the mylo- hyoid muscle are next divided, and the tongue is drawn out through the incision and removed with scissors close to the epiglottis. After securing bleed- ing vessels, the cavity is packed with iodoform gauze, and the wound is not closed by sutures, but is allowed to heal by granulation. The most perfect drainage is secured by this method of operation, and risk of septic pneumonia is averted. The after-treatment of cases of complete excision of the tongue consists in feeding the patient for a few days by the rectum or by means of an oesophageal tube. The wound should be frequently irrigated with an anti- septic solution and loosely packed with iodoform gauze, which should be changed daily. Results of Excision of the Tongue. —The mortality after this operation is from ten to fifteen per cent., but, although recurrence of the disease is the rule within a year in the stump, the fauces, or the glands of the neck, a number of j)ermanent cures have been reported. The patient's life is con- siderably prolonged by the operation in the majority of cases, and he is generally relieved from the pain and distress which are always present in those not subjected to operative treatment. Incision for Kocher's opera tion. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE JAWS. Fractures and dislocations of the jaw are considered under Fractures and Dislocations. Hypertrophy of the Gums.—The muco-periosteum which is attached to the alveolar processes of the jaws may increase so much in extent as almost or quite to cover the teeth, or the mucous membrane may be so much increased that it forms folds. This condition may be relieved by cocain- izing the parts and applying Paquelin's cautery at a number of points, and where there are pendulous folds these should be excised. Spongy Gums.—The gums may be congested, swollen, and painful, and bleed upon very slight irritation. This condition is often observed in stomatitis, in alveolar abscess, in scurvy and syphilis, and as the result of the prolonged use of mercury. The presence of this affection renders the mastication of solid food painful. Treatment.—This consists in the use