TREATMENT OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 964 If the intestinal strangulation is not relieved, peritonitis is caused by per- foration of the affected bowel, or the penetration of its wall by bacteria, its blood-supply being impaired or entirely shut off. The peritonitis may be general, or localized by adhesions. If adhesions form about the involved in- testine, ulceration or sloughing may result in the formation of an abscess and an external fecal fistula, or in a natural anastomosis between the bowel above and below the point of obstruction, recovery by these means being possible, but very rare. Death may be caused by peritonitis ; by exhaustion from the pain, vomiting, and inanition; by toxic poisoning from the decomposing intestinal contents; or by pneumonia set up by inhalation of the vomited material. It may occur in two days or in several weeks. Treatment.—In the acute form of intestinal obstruction the cause must be removed by mechanical means or a laparotomy must be done at once. Medical treatment is useless. In the subacute form medical treatment may be given a short trial, but if not immediately successful surgical measures must be adopted, as the only chance lies in the early performance of an operation, and even a short delay may be fatal. In the chronic form, medi- cal measures often suffice to keep the patient tolerably comfortable, but an operation is sometimes desirable. Medical treatment should consist in the use of enemata; strong pur- gatives given by the mouth should be especially avoided, except in chronic obstruction, as they only excite unusual peristalsis, which increases the vomiting and the distress of the patient. For an enema, spirit of turpen- tine, sulphate of magnesium in large doses, infusion of the leaves of senna, and castor oil may be employed, given through a tube passed as high up in the bowel as possible and with as large a quantity of water as the patient will bear. It should be given under a pressure of from three to five feet. Vomiting is frequently relieved by washing the stomach, and this may sometimes be followed by throwing small quantities of peptonized milk or stimulants into the stomach through the tube. No solid food should be given, and only small quantities of fluids by the mouth, as the power of ab- sorption is very limited, and attempts at feeding only increase the vomiting. In intussusception an attempt at reduction by rectal injections of air or fluid is first to be made. Water is to be preferred for injection, because it is more easily controlled, and the pressure must not be great, because the softened wall of the bowel may give way. Experience has shown that the pressure of a column of water three feet in height is sufficient to reduce the majority of reducible intussusceptions, and five feet certainly should not be exceeded, as that pressure has been known to produce rupture of the intes- tine in experiments. The injection is given by inserting the tube, around which a bandage has been wrapped so as to make a plug for the anus, and connecting it with the bag of a fountain syringe held a measured distance above the patient as he lies on his abdomen with the buttocks raised on a cushion. If this attempt is not successful under an anaesthetic after a thor- ough trial of half an hour, laparotomy for reduction of the intussuscep- tion by the fingers becomes necessary. Great care must be taken not to rupture the bowel-wall in attempting the reduction. The only hope of suc- cess in these operations is their early performance—in less than twenty-four