DIAGNOSIS OF ABDOMINAL TUMORS. 969 bulges equally in the flanks on both sides and is flattened anteriorly. The presence of a large abdominal cyst gives quite a different shape to the body, Fiu. 786. Sarcoma of the mesentery. the most prominent part of the abdomen being in the middle line, while the flanks are comparatively flat (Fig. 786), and sometimes one side is more dis- tended than the other. In ovarian cysts the swelling is most prominent in the lower part of the abdomen, and the solid fibroid tumors of the uterus project in the same region, but often make a more distinct and conical protrusion. (Fig. 787.) Large fibrp-cystic tumors (Fig. 788) may resemble ovarian cysts. In examining the abdomen by palpation the patient should lie upon the back, with the shoulders sup- ported on a pillow and the knees drawn up and held by an assistant, so as to relax the abdominal muscles thoroughly. He shoidd then be instructed to take several long breaths, the surgeon gently sinking the hand into the abdomen during expiration. The pal- mar surfaces of the fingers should be used as far as possible, and not their ends. When this examination has been completed, the surgeon should turn the patient upon each side and percuss and palpate the abdomen in these positions, as additional information may sometimes thus be obtained. The patient may also be seated upon a chair, bending forward, with his folded arms supported upon the back of a chair in front of him, and his head resting upon his arms, as in this position the abdominal muscles are relaxed, and gravity throws the organs forward against the palpating hand as the surgeon stands behind the patient and reaches around him. The adminis- tration of an anaesthetic is useful in palpation of the abdomen, and some- times indispensable, for some patients cannot relax their muscles. The immobility of retroperitoneal and pancreatic tumors is characteristic. Tumors connected with the liver move with respiration, and sometimes those connected with the spleen will do so, while tumors of the kidneys, uterus, and ovaries do not. Any tumor in contact with the diaphragm or the liver will move downward on inspiration, but if the tumor is firmly held down by Fibroid tumor of the uterus. (Case of Dr. R. Abbe.)