FRACTURES OF THE ULNA. 469 use the fingers and make motions of the wrist. At the end of three weeks both splints should be removed, and the patient should carry the forearm in a sling for a few weeks longer and be encouraged to use the hand. As stiffness of the wrist and the fingers is very apt to follow this fracture, it is important that the fingers should be moved when the dressings are changed, the wrist gently flexed and extended, and, while the fragments are fixed with one hand, the motions of pronation and supination practised. Ununited fractures of the lower end of the radius are extremely rare: we know of no reported case of non-union in Colles's fracture. Fracture or Separation of the Lower Epiphysis of the Ra- dius.—This accident presents more or less the deformity of the ordinary Colles's fracture, and is quite common in children. Symptoms.—The deformity in separation of the epiphysis consists in a marked angular projection on the palmar surface of the forearm above the wrist, and a corresponding depression Upon the dorsal Surface. (Fig. separation 0f the lower epiphysis of the radius. 387.) Crepitus can be obtained upon making extension and counter-extension and manipulation, but it is usually softer in character than that occurring in fractures of the lower end of the radius. Treatment.—By making extension and counter-extension and manipu- lation the deformity can be reduced, and when once reduced the tendency to its reproduction is not so marked as in the case of Colles's fracture. The treatment consists in placing the forearm in the supine position and apply- ing a straight padded splint to the anterior surface of the forearm, and a padded splint to the posterior surface of the forearm ; or an ordinary Bond splint with compresses may be applied. The splints are held in position by a roller bandage, and the subsequent management of the case is similar to that of cases of fracture of the lower end of the radius. The results following epiphyseal separation of the lower end of the radius are usually very satisfactory. FRACTURES OF THE ULNA. Fracture of the Shaft of the Ulna.—This fracture is usually pro- duced by direct force from blows or from falls upon the ulnar side of the forearm. Displacement in fracture of the shaft of the ulna may be in any direction, often being determined by the direction of the force which pro- duced the fracture. Fractures of the ulna may be oblique or transverse, and if the radius is not broken there will be no overlapping. Prognosis.—In fractures of the shaft of the ulna, union generally takes place without marked deformity. Non-union is much more common in the ulna than in the radius. We have seen a number of cases of ununited frac- ture of the ulna in which non-union seemed to be due to the fact that the fractures were treated with a short single anterior splint which did not control the movement of the fingers.