INTRODUCTION OF URETHRAL INSTRUMENTS. 1079 end impinges on the surface of the ligament. The point of the sound should he kept against the roof of the urethra, as it provides a much firmer guide to the instrument than the more distensible floor of the canal, and obstructions are also more likely to be found on the latter. The entrance of the sound into the bladder is proved by the fact that its beak can be freely turned from side to side, and the patient has a sensation as if he were making water. The point of a filiform is so fine that it may be caught in one of the small lacunae or the ducts of glands in the mucous membrane, and it should be slightly withdrawn if it meets with any obstruction, and an attempt made by bending the penis or the instrument to cause the latter to slip along an- other portion of the urethral wall before it is concluded that the obstruction in question is a stricture. If there is a stricture and the filiform cannot be made to pass, it should be inserted as far as possible aud then another fili- form passed alongside of it. If three or four instruments are together in the urethra, one after another being tried, it is often possible to introduce one of them into the stricture when a single bougie would not enter. A tempo- rary bend is easily given to the tip of the whalebone filiform by pinching it between the finger-nails. The angular filiforms often enter where the straight would not, and the same is true of the spiral shapes. When a filiform has been passed into the stricture in a difficult case and an operation is proposed, it is wise to keep the bougie in place until the operation. To secure a bougie or catheter in the urethra, a "clove-hitch" knot should be made around the instrument with a silk thread, and the ends of the latter secured to the penis by rubber plaster or tied to the hair of the pubes. Accidents.—There may be some pain in passing water and a slight mucous discharge from the urethra after the introduction of instruments. This can be lessened by alkalinization of the urine. Epididymitis may also follow urethral instrumentation from infection of the seminal ducts by ure- thral discharge or by an unclean instrument. False passages may be made by penetration of the urethral mucous membrane by a stiff instrument used with too great force, an accident which usually causes pain and hemorrhage and sometimes an abscess. Catheterization in the Female.—The introduction of the female cathe- ter is usually very easy, unless the parts are abnormal, either cougenitally or as a result of parturition and its accidents. The same care as to asepsis is necessary as in the male, lest a cystitis develop, and this compels the re- jection of the older methods of introducing the instrument by the touch alone. The genitals should always be washed and sterilized, the labia held apart, and the catheter introduced by the aid of sight so that it shall touch nothing but the meatus. Anaesthesia.—A general anaesthetic is seldom necessary for the intro- duction of these instruments, but cocaine may be employed locally. In the use of urethral injections of cocaine there appears to be unusual liability to poisoning by absorption, so the solutions used should be only two, or at most four, per cent. ; not over fifteen minims should be employed, and the urethra should be irrigated with warm sterilized water in order to remove the cocaine as soon as the anaesthetic effect has been obtained.