PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 221 Fig. 160. Esniarch bandage is most useful, as the surgeon in enlarging the wound is not embarrassed by hemorrhage, and is able often to see and follow the track of the body and recognize the different tissues. The Bontgen or X rays have recently been employed with success in locating foreign bodies, such as pieces of metal or glass, in punctured wounds. By their use a skiagraph may be obtained by which the foreign bodies may be located. (Fig. 160.) As a matter of course, rigid asepsis should be observed in enlarging these wounds and in their subsequent dressings. When the vulnerating body is barbed, as in the case of an ordinary fish-hook, and re- mains in the tissues, its withdrawal is often difficult, and it has to be cut down upon and removed, or, if embedded in the fingers, as is often the case, it can be pressed through until its barbed end projects upon the other side, when, this being cut off with cutting pliers, the shaft can be withdrawn. Arrow Wounds.— This variety of wounds is not seen in civil practice, but is common in conflicts with savage tribes. They give rise to serious injuries, and are often fatal if they involve the thoracic or the ab- dominal cavity. The head of the arrow at- tached to the shaft may become fixed in a bone, or it may become detached and remain in the tissues. Treatment.—Attempts should be made to remove the head of the arrow by traction, or by enlarging the wound if necessary and grasping it with forceps, or, when it has penetrated a part and is near the surface upon the opposite side, it may be pressed through, when, the head being removed, the shaft is withdrawn. After the removal of the arrow the wound should be enlarged and irrigated, and a bichloride or sterilized gauze dressing applied. Sword Wounds.—Sword wounds may be of the nature of incised wounds, punctured wounds, or contused and lacerated wounds. They should be irrigated with an antiseptic solution, and if external and clean-cut they should be closed with sutures. If they penetrate important cavities they should be treated on the same principle as other punctured wounds of cavities. Bayonet Wounds.—These wounds vary with the shape of the bayonet with which they are inflicted—either the triangular-shaped or the sword- shaped bayonet. Bayonet wounds are said to be especially liable to be iufected and cause deep-seated suppuration. The wound produced by the sword bayonet is of the nature of an incised wound, and heals more promptly than that produced by the triangular-shaped bayonet. The wounds should be irrigated with a 1 to 2000 bichloride solution, and a bichloride gauze dressing applied. Skiagraph of a piece of a needle in the foot.