461 FRACTURE OF THE INTERNAL EPICONDYLE. Fracture of the condyles of the humerus is often confounded with dislo- cation at the elbow, but if the surgeon bears in mind the facts that in dislocation the epicondyloid eminences are in line, whereas in Fig. 373. fracture one is higher or lower than the other, that crepitus can be obtained in fracture and is not present in dislocation, and that the forearm is flexed upon the arm in posterior dis- location, whereas it may be extended in fracture of the con- dyles, little difficulty in diagnosis will be experienced. Prognosis.—In fracture of either the external or the internal condyle a guarded prognosis should always be given, for, in spite of the most careful treatment, more or less stiffness and restriction of the mo- tions of the elbow-joint, with deformity, may result. Fracture of the Internal Epi- condyle.—In children, separation of the internal epicondyle, which is an epiph- ysis, is not an uncommon accident, and may result from force directly applied or from muscular action. (Fig. 374.) Symptoms.—The most marked symp- toms of fracture of the epicondyle are Fracture of the external condyle of the humerus. (Agnew.) pain, swelling, mobility, and crepitus. Fracture of the internal epicondyle of the humerus. (Agnew.) The displacement, as a rule, is a little downward and forward, due to the action of the pronator and flexor muscles. The ulnar nerve, from its close relation to this prominence, is occasionally injured in this fracture, which is shown by disordered sensibility in the parts to which it is distributed. This fracture is not so liable to be followed by stiffness of the articulation as are fractures involving either the external or the internal condyle. Treatment of Fractures of the Lower Extremity of the Humerus.—Some diversity of opinion exists among surgeons as to the ad- visability of treating these fractures in the extended or in the flexed position. There is no doubt that the deformity can best be reduced and the reduction maintained by keeping the arm in the extended position, and that the "car- rying function" of the arm is best preserved by this position, as has been pointed out by Allis. On the other hand, if stiffness or ankylosis of the elbow results, an arm which is flexed is much more useful to the patient than one which is fixed in the extended position. In view of these facts, we are inclined, as a rule, to treat the arm in the flexed position, unless it is found that it is impossible to reduce the deformity, in which case we con- sider it good practice to treat the arm in the extended position for two weeks, until the fragments have attained some fixation, and then to admin- ister an anaesthetic and flex the arm to a right angle, applying a splint to keep it in this position. The dressing of condyloid fractures consists in ap- plying first a primary roller from the tips of the fingers to the axilla, and then either an anterior straight splint or an anterior angular splint, securing