323 DIAGNOSIS OF HEMORRHAGE. and longitudinal, tends to narrow the orifice of the vessel and also draw it away from the surface of the wound. The contraction and retraction of the ends of the divided artery, with narrowing and roughening and curling up of the coats, are quickly followed by the development of a blood-clot or eoagulwm, which forms first in the sheath of the artery and covers the end of the vessel; this constitutes the external clot. Blood also coagulates within the divided artery, and often extends so as to fill the vessel to the first large collateral branch; this is the Fig. 254. internal clot. (Fig. 254.) The portion of the clot which is attached to the end of the divided vessel, be- tween the external and the internal clot, is known as the central clot. The presence of these clots causes the teuqjorary arrest of the bleeding, and by their subsequent organization hemorrhage is permanently arrested and the artery is obliterated at the seat of injury. Syncope, which diminishes the cardiac action and thus reduces the force of the blood-current, favor- ing the coagulation of blood in the divided vessel, is often an important factor in the spontaneous arrest of hemorrhage. Complete division, contusion, or lacer- coaguinm in divided ar- - j, . „ tery: a, internal, 6, central, ation of an artery tavors the spontaneous arrest ot Ci external, clot, hemorrhage, whereas incomplete division of the vessel, adhesion of the vessel to its sheath, movements of the patient displacing the forming clot, and stimulation of the heart all tend to prevent the arrest of bleeding. In wounded veins the spontaneous arrest of hemorrhage occurs very much in the same manner : contraction and retraction of the veins are not marked, but the walls of the cut vein collapse, which serves the same purpose, and the coagulation of blood takes place, forming an external, an internal, and a central clot. Where the walls of a vein are attached to firm tissue and cannot collapse, as in the venous sinuses in the skull, spontaneous arrest of hemorrhage cannot occur. The presence of valves in veins between the wound and the heart also prevents the flow of blood from the cardiac end of the vein. Diagnosis of Hemorrhage.—This is a matter of little difficulty if blood escapes from an open wound, but when a vessel has been injured sub- cutaneously, or blood escapes into the great cavities of the body, constituting what is known as concealed hemorrhage, it is often difficult for a time to recognize the condition. If in the latter case the escape of blood is profuse, the patient soon exhibits the constitutional symptoms of hemorrhage, which are often associated with the presence of a swelling, giving rise to certain mechanical disturbances, which lead the surgeon to the proper solution of the problem. The greatest confusion is apt to arise in cases of hemorrhage into the pelvic, pleural, abdominal, and cranial cavities, where the symp- toms presented closely resemble those of shock ; and as both conditions follow similar injuries and may coexist, their differentiation is often a matter of the greatest difficulty, and the diagnosis can be arrived at only by a careful study of the special symptoms and physical signs presented in each case.