133 CONDITIONS AFFECTING OPERATIONS. of abscesses, may be followed by serious results, yet the surgeon cannot refuse to operate in certain urgent cases, but he should always be mindful of the increased danger to the patient from his constitutional condition. Chronic Nephritis.—No variety of visceral disease affects the results of operations so unfavorably as chronic nephritis, and grave operations should not be undertaken upon patients suffering from this affection unless urgently called for to save life. A patient suffering from nephritis may present a fairly healthy appearance, especially in cases of contracted kid- ney, where no albumin is detected in the urine. A trifling operation on such a subject may be a most serious and dangerous procedure. The anaesthetic to be employed should be determined by the fact that the patient suffers from nephritis. Cardiac Disease.—Patients who suffer from valvular disease of the heart do not seem to be especially unfavorable subjects for operation, if the valvular lesion has been compensated for, but those who suffer from a feeble or fatty heart are especially exposed to risk from the shock of the Operation. It has been pointed out by Verneuil that cardiac affections may affect the results of operations unfavorably by causing oedema, passive hemorrhages, thrombosis, and embolism. The results of operations upon patients suffering from aneurism of the larger arteries do not seem to be particularly unfavorable. Atheroma of the arteries does not appear to exercise a markedly unfavorable influence upon the results of operations. It was formerly sup- posed that secondary hemorrhage was more likely to complicate wounds of atheromatous vessels. If rigid asepsis is practised, and large ligatures are employed and not tied too tightly, such vessels heal as promptly as sound ones. Our own experience with amputations of limbs in which atheroma- tous vessels were present would lead us to believe that secondary hemor- rhage is not more likely to occur than in wounds of healthy vessels; the principal risk in amputations in these cases is from sloughing of the flaps. Diseases of the Liver.-—Verneuil has pointed out that affections of the liver exercise a very serious influence upon operations and injuries. Cir- rhosis and fatty and amyloid degeneration of the liver should be considered conditions which render the results of surgical operations most unfavorable, and in subjects suffering from these affections only operations of urgency should be undertaken. Diseases of the Nervous System.—Insane patients usually bear operations extremely well if they are otherwise healthy and do not require restraint; if, however, they suffer from chronic melancholia or dementia, they are apt to be broken down in health, and are then very unfavorable subjects for operation. Persons suffering from diseases of the nervous sys- tem, such as ataxia, paralysis, or chorea, or those who have received in- juries of the brain or spinal cord, are not good subjects for operative procedures. We have seen a case of amputation of the leg in a patient suffering from chorea in which death resulted from exhaustion following the irritation produced by the constant moving of the stump. Haemophilia.—Haemophilia is a condition which affects the results of operations unfavorably, and should forbid the performance of a surgical