343 VARICOSE VEINS. of chloride of zinc or pure carbolic acid, and the cavity packed with iodo- form gauze. Hemorrhage is not usually troublesome, but if this occurs when the vein is opened, a ligature should be applied to a healthy por- tion of the vein on each side of the infected area, which will serve the double purpose of cutting off the vessel from the circulation and thus pre- venting septic emboli from entering the circulation, and of controlling the bleeding. Another method consists in ligating the vein above at a point where it is healthy, and subsequently laying it open from this point down- ward, as well as all branches which are inflamed, and irrigating them freely with an antiseptic solution. If the operation is done promptly, marked improvement, both local and constitutional, is usually quickly observed. If secondary or metastatic abscesses develop in the course of the disease, they should be promptly opened and sterilized. Thrombo-phlebitis of the venous sinuses of the skull is occasionally met with, and the treatment is similar to that just described. A patient suffering with septic or suppu- rative phlebitis should be given a most nourishing diet, stimulated freely, and given such tonics as quinine, iron, and strychnine in appropriate doses. VARIX, OR VARICOSE VEINS. A varix is a permanent pathological dilatation of a vein : veins which are so affected are said to be varicose, and present an enlarged, elongated, tortuous, and knotted condition. The super- ficial veins of the lower extremity are those most commonly involved, the internal saphe- nous vein and its branches being affected often (Fig. 264) ; but the veins of the labia, those of the spermatic cord, and the hemor- rhoidal veins, as well as those of the trunk and the upper extremity, may present this condition. We had under our care recently a boy who suffered from vesical calculus, in whom the straining efforts in micturition had caused an extensive varicose condition of the superficial veins of the abdomen. The deep veins are usually free from the disease, but occasionally the communicating branches between the deep and the superficial veins are involved, and a varix is not infre- quently observed at this point. The disease begins with a slow dilatation of the vein; it is not only enlarged trans- versely, but is also elongated, and, as the ends of the vein are fixed points, the increase in length causes it to become very tortuous. In other cases dilatation, or increase transversely, is most marked, and elongation or lengthening does not occur to any extent. The coats of the involved veins are markedly thickened, the endothelial coat presents longitudinal stria?, and in long-standing cases atheromatous change or calcification may sometimes be observed ; the external coat is also very Varicose veins of the le (Agnew.)