14 CHAPTER II. INFLAMMATION. Definition.—Inflammation may be defined as the reaction of the tissues against injurious influences. This definition is satisfactory from the clinical stand-point, but not entirely so from a pathological point of view, for it is difficult, if not impossible, to draw a sharp line between the changes which take place in the tissues as a result of their efforts to repair damage done by injuries and the alterations which occur as a result of true inflammation, although it is important not to confuse the two. An aseptic wound heals without any of the clinical signs of inflammation or any " reaction," and the definition is therefore satisfactory clinically. It is only by a study of the minute tissue-changes about such a wound that the resemblance between the processes of wound-repair and those of slight inflammation becomes evident. Etiology.—The cause of inflammation is any injury to the tissues by mechanical, thermic, or chemical means, by the effect of electricity, or by the growth of bacteria. The action of bacteria and electricity can probably be explained by referring it to mechanical effect, heat, or chemical action. The invasion of the tissues by bacteria is the universal cause of such in- flammations as come under the surgeon's notice, with the exception of those due to rheumatism and gout, so that one is almost tempted to say that there can be no inflammation without bacteria. Bacteria may act upon the tissues mechanically by their presence as foreign bodies, and perhaps also by the obscure influence known as vital force, but it is daily becoming more evi- dent that their main, and perhaps their only, action is the chemical effect of their toxines and ferments, which have been shown capable of producing pus when injected free from living bacteria into the tissues. The peculiar inflammations found in the altered trophic conditions associated with cer- tain nervous diseases, such as sclerosis or other changes in the spinal cord, are due merely to the ordinary causes, although acting with greater force upon the devitalized tissues. The various causes of such forms of inflammation as the surgeon is apt to meet with may be thus classified : A. Mechanical. 1. Contusions, wounds, fractures, ruptures. 2. Foreign bodies, necrotic tissue (sequestra), calculi. 3. Friction, long-continued pressure. B. Heat, cold, electricity. C. Chemical. 1. External—irritants, caustics. 2. Internal—gouty and rheumatic poisons, urine, bile, and digestive secretions. D. Bacteriological.