687 OSTEOMYELITIS OF THE SKULL. Inflammations.—Among the inflammatory conditions of the scalp is dermatitis due to infection or to irritation by chemicals. It has no special peculiarity. The hair must be kept short in order to maintain cleanliness. Erysipelas and cellulitis occurring on the head are very serious affections, because of the large amount of loose areolar tissue between the scalp and the pericranium, the meshes of which afford an excellent opportunity for the stagnation of serum and for the growth of bacteria, and also because of the liability that phlebitis may extend to the cerebral sinuses, or that meningitis may follow. On account of the thickness of the skin of the scalp, the secretion is apt to pocket and burrow in all directions instead of finding its way to the surface. Early and free incisions and constant watch- ing of the infected area are necessary in order to prevent extension of the inflammation. Cellulitis is often followed by an ostitis and even necrosis of the bones of the skull. Cicatrices.—The cicatrices of former wounds of the scalp may cause severe headache, neuralgia, or even epileptic attacks, and simple excision followed by primary union has cured these conditions. Hypertrophy may occur in these scars as elsewhere. THE SKULL. Hypertrophy and Atrophy.—In rare instances there is a uniform hypertrophy of the bones by an external new growth of bone, which does not lessen the cavity of the skull. (See Fig. 466.) Sometimes the bones of the face are involved, producing the condition of leontiasis. (See Fig. 471.) The opposite condition of atrophy is very rarely seen, although it may be so extreme that the pericranium and dura are in contact over considerable areas. Atrophy of the bones must not be confounded with craniotabes (Fig. 632), which is a not uncommon con- dition, evidently of rachitic origin, found in infants, in which the bones are so soft that they can be easily depressed by the finger, and may be- come flattened merely by the weight of the head as it rests on the pillow. Inflammation.— Osteomyeli- tis.—The bones of the skull are lia- ble to the same diseases as the flat bones elsewhere in the body. An osteomyelitis in them is usually ac- companied by periostitis and detach- ment of the pericranium. Necrosis is generally confined to the outer layer of the skull and the diploe, but occasionally sequestra are formed which involve the entire thickness of the bone and lie in contact with the dura mater. Osteomyelitis may be due to the staphylococcus or other pyogenic germs, or to the typhoid bacillus, or it may occur in tuberculosis and syphilis. The ordinary purulent osteomye- litis is generally caused by direct infection through a wound of the soft Fig. 632. Craniotabes. (Agnew.)