CHRONIC ARTERITIS. 349 a contiguous abscess, or by the application of an infected ligature or instru- ment. In the case of an artery containing a thrombus the infection may arise from the blood, in which case an endarteritis will be developed which will rapidly involve the remaining coats of the vessel. The process is attended by softening of the coats of the vessel, the exudation of serum, and the migration of leucocytes, and as a result of these changes ulceration or sloughing of the walls of the artery occurs. Suppurative arteritis is the most common cause of secondary hemorrhage; this complication following wounds or the ligation of arteries was very fre- quent before the introduction of asepsis in wound treatment. The forma- tion of a blood-clot at the seat of inflammation in the vessel, which in many cases extends up the vessel well beyond the infected area, probably explains the fact that secondary hemorrhage does not occur in all cases of suppura- tive arteritis. Arteries which have been contused or partially lacerated, if exposed to infection in a wound, are less able to resist this process than uninjured vessels : hence in such cases the greater liability to suppurative arteritis and secondary hemorrhage. The surgeon should bear in mind the possibility of the development of this affection from the presence of abscess in close proximity to large arteries, which should lead him to open and disinfect such abscesses at the earliest possible time. Almost every surgeon has seen deep-seated abscesses of the neck or thigh followed by secondary hemorrhage from the carotid or femoral artery, often with fatal results. Embolic Arteritis.—This form of arterial inflammation, which, for- tunately, is extremely infrequent, results from the lodgement in an artery of an infected embolus, which sets up an infective endarteritis, the intima becoming cedematous and infiltrated with pus-cells, and the infective pro- cess extending to the other coats of the vessel, resulting in the formation of an abscess ; or the softening effect of the inflammation upon the intima and the other coats may cause them to become dilated by the pressure of blood within the vessel, producing an aneurism. Rupture of an abscess or of an aneurism formed in this manner is usually attended by a fatal result. Chronic Arteritis or Endarteritis.—Atheroma is an affection of the larger arteries which occurs in advanced age, or at an earlier period in alco- holics, and is characterized by the appearance of areas of degeneration in the coats of the artery, known as atheromatous patches. The disease begins in the deeper layers of the intima, and may involve segments or small patches of the wall of the vessel, consisting in a proliferation of the small flattened cells lying between the layers of fibrous tissue. Hyperplasia of the connective tissue may partially or completely occlude the lumen of the vessel, giving rise to a condition known as obliterating arteritis. The athero- matous areas further undergo fatty or calcareous degeneration. Fatty de- generation is attended with softening and liquefaction of the tissues and the formation of the so-called atheromatous abscess, the contents of which are not pus, but fatty matter and cholesterin : the cavity resulting gives rise to the atheromatous ulcer. Calcareous degeneration may follow fatty degeneration or occur independently of it, and consists in the deposit of fine granules of