TREATMENT OF ANKYLOSIS. 671 Ankylosis of the Hip with Flexion after Hip-Disease.—in many cases of tuberculosis of the hip-joint which terminate in recovery, owing to destruction of the joint or change in the shape of the head and neck of the bone, flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis occurs, and a perma- nent bony or firm fibrous ankylosis of the joint results, with the limb in such a position that the patient is able only to bring the toes of the extended foot in contact with the ground. (Fig. 610.) This deformity usually follows tubercular disease of the hip which has not been carefully treated. It is observed in cases which have been complicated by abscess, as well as in those in which this complication has not occurred. Treatment.—When the deformity results from fibrous ankylosis, sub- cutaneous division of the contracted muscles and fascia, with subsequent extension, is often followed by its correction. In cases, however, in which very firm fibrous or bony ankylosis exists, an osteotomy, according to the method of Adams or Gant, an operation attended with little risk, will be required to correct the deformity. Adams's operation, which consists in a subcutaneous section of the neck of the bone, is made with a short narrow saw. Gant's modification of this operation consists in making a section of the femur just below the lesser trochanter, the bone being divided with a saw or an osteotome. In correcting this deformity when it is the result of hip- disease, we prefer Gant's operation to that of Adams, as the head and neck of the bone are often very much changed in shape, and the section is neces- sarily made through diseased tissue in the latter situation. Moreover, if only fibrous ankylosis exists, recurrence of the deformity may take place after section of the neck of the bone by the action of the muscles inserted into the lesser trochanter. In Gant's operation, or subtrochanteric osteotomy, Fig. 609. Ankylosis of the knee. Ankylosis of the hip following coxalgia.