TUMORS OF THE THYROID GLAND. 793 numerary masses of thyroid tissue are sometimes found, most frequently in the middle line along the course of the thyroglossal duct or at the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid in the situation of those branchial clefts in which the thyroid gland originated. They may also occur in the mediastinum and far out on the side of the neck, and in the case of tumors growing in any of these regions the possibility of a supernumerary thyroid should be con- sidered. Complete atrophy of the gland is associated with myxcedema, a disease which results in impairment of the mental powers, a thickening of the subcutaneous tissue, and loss of hair; and a similar condition follows complete operative removal of the thyroid gland, with the addition in some cases of convulsions which reseinble those of tetanus. Simple hypertrophy of the gland is rare, the enlargement being generally adenomatous. Inflammation.—A congestive swelling is seen occasionally from irri- tation of the sexual organs, as during menstruation. Suppurative inflam- mation of the thyroid is rare, but it occasionally results in the formation of abscesses, although suppuration of the thyroid gland is often tuberculous in origin. In tuberculosis the gland is thickened and enlarged, the overlying skin becomes discolored, and abscesses and sinuses are formed, the course of the disease being slow but progressive. If the diagnosis could be made sufficiently early, thorough surgical treatment might result in a cure, but in no case would entire removal of the gland be permissible. Tumors.—Tumors of the thyroid gland are common, and the great majority are histologically adenomata, sometimes associated with angio- matous changes of the blood-vessels. The normal gland is formed of acini without duets, and the adenomata have the same structure, except that the acini are larger. The enlargement of the acini may be uniform throughout the gland, or one or several acini may grow more rapidly than the others and produce one or more large cysts. Sometimes one cyst will enlarge rapidly, compressing the others and converting the rest of the lobe into a thin layer resembling connective tissue, which can be recognized as thyroid tissue only under the microscope. These tumors may affect one lobe or the entire gland, and they may attain a very great size, hanging far down on the chest or extending upward at the sides of the neck. (Fig. 697. ) They are known by the name of bronchocele, or goitre. Goitre is most common in Switzerland and in certain parts of Germany and England, but it frequently occurs in our native population. The cause is unknown, but the disease is endemic in certain places, and Kocher has traced it to some organic constituent of the drinking- water, for he found goitre common in certain valleys while the people of the neighboring- country with a different water-supply were entirely free from it. The sporadic cases are as yet inexplicable. These tumors have very little effect upon the health in the majority of cases, even when they are of large size. In some instances they grow inward and press upon the trachea, Fig. 697. Thyroid tumor.