855 EXCISION OF THE LARYNX. ders the patient's condition comfortable until death shall result from exten- sion of the disease, exhaustion, or septic pneumonia. When the disease is confined to the cavity of the larynx and involves only one side of the organ, and the neighboring lymphatic glands are not involved, the question of complete or partial excision of the larynx should be considered. When the tumor is so small that the operation can be limited to the removal of one-half of the larynx, the chances of recurrence are less, and the functional results as regards breathing and the preservation of the voice are often sat- isfactory. After complete excision the patient may be compelled to wear a tracheal tube, and often suffers much trouble from the saliva and food pass- ing into the trachea, unless some of the recently devised methods of shutting off the communication of the larynx with the pharynx be adopted. Re- currence often takes place in a short time, but a number of cases have been reported in which the patients have lived for years and were in some in- stances able to breathe comfortably without a tracheotomy-tube, as in the case reported by Cohen. Excision of the Larynx.—Excision of the larynx, partial or com- plete, is a most serious operation. Death may result from the operation itself, from shock or hemorrhage, or later from broncho-pneumonia, from purulent bronchitis, from the passage of food or blood into the trachea, or from septic cellulitis of the neck or the anterior mediastinum. Recurrence of the disease has commonly taken place in a short time, in spite of the complete removal of the growth, so that the advisability of the operation should always be carefully considered. If excision of the larynx is decided upon, a low tracheo£omy should be done some days before the operation upon the larynx is undertaken. Before the incision to expose the larynx is made, the cavity of the trachea above the tube should be packed with iodoform gauze, or a tampon trache- otomy-tube should be introduced. A long incision is then made in the median line of the neck, and the larynx freely exposed by blunt dissection ; the thyroid cartilage is then split in the median line and the cavity of the larynx exposed. If the disease is confined to one side of the larynx, this shoidd be removed; if the whole larynx is implicated, it should be care- fully dissected out, bleeding being controlled as the dissection is made. When the entire larynx is removed, the opening in the pharynx should be closed by sutures, and the upper end of the trachea secured in the lower angle of the wound, thus completely shutting off the latter from communi- cation with the pharynx. After the larynx has been removed, the wound should be lightly packed with iodoform gauze, and at the end of a few days the packing should be removed and replaced by a fresh one. The wound should be dressed daily, and great care taken to keep it aseptic. The patient should be fed for a few days by means of an oesophageal tube or by nutritious enemata. After partial removal of the larynx, the soft parts and the skin are closed by sutures, and after healing has occurred the tracheotomy-tube may be removed, and, if breathing is satisfactorily car- ried on through the. larynx, the tube need not be replaced unless subsequent contraction makes its use necessary. After complete removal of the larynx, the tracheotomy-tube or some form of artificial larynx may have to be