773 CLEFT PALATE. if the wisdom tooth cannot be located. This procedure will often be followed by the relief of the symptoms. In cases of closure of the jaws due to cicatricial contraction the division of the band of tissue, or plastic operations upon the soft parts, is usu- ally followed by no permanent improvement; Esmarch's operation, which has been previously described, is the only procedure that is likely to be followed by a satisfactory result. CLEET PALATE. This is a congenital malformation resulting from partial or total failure of union between the maxillary processes and the parietal segments. A bifid uvula is the mildest form of this malformation. In other cases the soft palate may be fissured, or both the soft and the hard palate may be separated for a certain distance, and in the most marked cases the separation may involve the whole of the soft and the hard palate and extend forward between the intermaxillary bones and the superior maxilla. Symptoms.—Clefts of the hard palate result in free communication between the cavity of the mouth and the nasal cavities, so that in swallowing food and liquids pass into the latter cavities and often escape from the anterior nares. The voice in cases of cleft palate is indistinct, nasal, and unpleasant in character. Infants suffering with cleft palate cannot take the breast, and have to be fed with a spoon or a dropper, which allows the milk to run down into the pharynx without suction on the part of the child. Owing to the difficulty in taking food, many of these cases die of mal- nutrition within the first few months. Treatment.—The most satisfactory treatment of this condition consists in performing a plastic operation, by which the edges of the cleft are fresh- ened and brought together by sutures, so that the abnormal communication of the mouth with the nasal cavities is shut off. The same object may be attained, but we think in a much less satisfactory manner, by the fitting of a metal or a rubber obturator. This method of treatment is generally recommended by dental surgeons, but possesses the disadvantage that the obturator has to be frequently renewed, and unless it is removed and kept clean it is apt to become offensive. The operative treatment has been practised in infants, but we do not think it a wise procedure, for there is necessarily a considerable loss of blood, which is not well borne by these subjects, and the flaps are often thin and poorly nourished, so that failure of union is not uncommon. We therefore think operative treatment should be postponed until the patient is three or four years of age. The results of the operation as regards union of the flaps are always uncertain ; a portion of the flaps may unite, or union may fail in the whole line from vomiting, from coughing, or from the poorly nourished condition of the flaps. Cases with wide separation with small horizontally projecting palatal processes are unfavorable ones for operation. Several operations, therefore, may be required before union is obtained in the whole line of the cleft. If after repeated operations, as sometimes happens, no union is obtained, the pa- tient should be fitted with an obturator. The results in successful cases, as regards improvement in swallowing and relief of regurgitation through