TRACHOMA. 810 of acute conjunctival inflammation, associated with the formation in the tarsal and less commonly in the bulbar conjunctiva of small bodies or gran- ules, the so-called trachoma bodies; or in a chronic form—the usual type— which may be the final stage of an acute variety, or result without such antecedent condition. In chronic trachoma, especially in the upper and lower retrotarsal folds, rounded granulations appear, which from fancied resemblances have been called sago-grain, frog-spawn, and vesicular granulations. According to one school, they should be regarded as new-formed pathological products analogous to a lymphoid structure. According to another school, they are simply the overgrowth of the natural lymphatic follicles of the part. Trachoma is common in certain races, particularly the Jews, Italians, Poles, and inhabitants of the East; it is almost unknown in pure negroes. The disease is disastrous if it breaks out in barracks, homes, or armies. The affection is contagious, especially when secretion is marked, and in one sense specific—that is, the secretion of an infected eye when introduced into another eye will produce a like affection. It is due to a micro-organism, or perhaps to parasitic protozoa. There are many varieties of granular lids, the most common being (a) follicular trachoma, analogous to the so-called follicular conjunctivitis, in which there is a hypertrophy of the natural follicles of the part; (6) papillary trachoma, in which the trachoma bodies are hidden among the swollen papilla? of the conjunctiva; and (c) cicatricial trachoma. As the trachoma bodies increase, they press upon one another, softening occurs, discharge becomes more manifest, new bodies take the place of old ones, and so the process goes on, until finally the conjunctiva and sometimes even the deeper tissues of the lid are converted into scar-tissue. Contrac- tion causes the lid to be deformed and its border inverted, or, in other words, entropion and trichiasis develop. Owing partly to the rough surface of the lids and partly to a special implantation of the disease in the corneal layers, the common sequel is the development of new-formed blood-vessels in the superficial layers of the cornea, associated with roughening and some- times ulceration of its surface. This is pannus, which may be slight, or dense and fleshy in consistence. Treatment.—The treatment of acute granular conjunctivitis is the same as that of any other acute inflammation of the conjunctiva. The treatment of the chronic variety of granular lids is medicinal and surgical. Almost all astringent and caustic applications have been em- ployed. The following are the best: in the stage of papillary hypertrophy with much discharge of mueo-purulent material, nitrate of silver, to be applied in the manner already described, ten or fifteen grains to the ounce ; in the stage of lymphoid infiltration with a tendency to exuberance of the granulations, strong solutions of bichloride of mercury, 1 to 500, applied to the everted lids precisely as is the silver solution with a cotton mop or camel's-hair brush; and in the stage of beginning cicatrization, or at any time when purulent discharge is absent, the local application of a smooth crystal of sulphate of copper. In mild types of chronic granular lids, espe- cially when there is a tendency to drying of the epithelium, tannin and