ALVEOLAR ABSCESS. 765 of astringent and antiseptic mouth-washes composed of chlorate of potas- sium or boric acid. The cause of the affection should be sought for and removed, and the general health should be improved by the use of tonics and a proper diet. Alveolar Abscess.—This originates in the alveolar socket, and results from septic changes in the pulp of a carious tooth or from a dead tooth. Alveolar abscess may be superficial, and consist of a collection of pus im- mediately beneath the gum, when it is commonly known as a " gum-boil," or the pus may collect around the root of the tooth and find an exit by following the line of the tooth, appearing at its insertion into the gum, or by perforating the thin shell of the alveolus, and, burrowing under the muco-periosteum, appearing at various points, often some distance from its origin. In alveolar abscess originating in the upper jaw the abscess may point in the roof of the mouth or in the soft palate, in the floor of the nasal fossa, or in the antrum, while in alveolar abscess originating in the lower jaw the abscess is apt to point on the gum or on the mucous membrane between the cheek and the gum, on the cheek, or in the submaxillary region. Symptoms.—These consist of pain of a severe and throbbing character, and of swelling of the mucous membrane in the region of the abscess and of the cheek; in the case of alveolar abscess of the upper jaw the eyelid may be swollen and oedematous, and the lymphatic glands may be enlarged and tender ; at the same time febrile symptoms appear, the tongue is coated, and the breath becomes very foul. Treatment.—As soon as the presence of suppuration is detected an in- cision should be made promptly to give exit to the pus, and this is usually followed by marked relief, but a sinus often persists for some time, unless the diseased or dead tooth or the necrosed portion of the alveolus is re- moved. In opening an alveolar abscess the incisions should, if possible, be made in the mouth, to avoid scars and persistent sinuses upon the face. After opening an alveolar abscess an antiseptic mouth-wash should be em- ployed for a few days. If the abscess opens spontaneously upon the cheek or neck, a troublesome sinus is apt to remain until the dead bone or tooth at its bottom is removed. In cases where the pus is confined to the alveolar socket, drilling of the alveolar wall and the root of the tooth may be fol- lowed by relief. It is not always necessary to remove a diseased tooth if it is treated by a competent dentist. Abscess of the Antrum.—Empyema of the antrum consists of a col- lection of pus in the antrum of Highmore, which results from suppuration in connection with the teeth of the upper jaw, injury or disease of the walls of the cavity, or extension of inflammation from neighboring cavities. Symptoms.—Dull, aching pain, tenderness, and swelling of the gum below the antrum, with the development of febrile symptoms, and occasion- ally oedema and redness of the overlying skin, with obstruction of the tear- duct and escape of tears over the cheek, are symptoms often observed in this affection. The occasional discharge of pus from the nose in connection with the above symptoms is very significant. Tumors of the naso pharynx, or those growing from the inner walls of the antrum before they have caused