MENINGOCELE. 714 toid process, and a second line perpendicular to the former at its middle point. The anterior branch of the artery will be found at the junction of this second line with a horizontal FlG- 644- line drawn through the glabella. (Fig. 644.) The point where the last-mentioned line intersects a vertical through the tip of the mastoid is the proper place to apply the trephine for hemor- rhage from the posterior branch. These cases may also be treated by turning down an osteoplastic flap and thus thoroughly exposing the vessels. The hemorrhage will have ceased at the time of opera- tion, and the clot should be washed out and another trephine opening made at the most de- pendent portion of the cavity, if necessary, to obtain thorough drainage. If no blood is found external to the dura, when the skull is opened, the dura should be incised. Intradural hemor- rhage usually arises from the middle cerebral artery, and the clot will be situated so as to be accessible from the anterior opening described above. Meningocele, Encephalocele, and Hydrencephalocele.—Con- genital tumors formed by a hernial protrusion of the membranes and of the brain-substance are most frequently found at the root of the nose and near the posterior fontanelle. When only the mem- branes protrude, a cystic tumor known as a meningocele is formed. (Fig. 645.) These tumors vary from the size of a wal- nut to that of an orange, and are gener- ally flaccid, although sometimes tense. They fluctuate, and very rarely pulsate with the brain. The skin covering them is thin and sometimes altered into a cica- tricial membrane, particularly over the vertex of the tumor. The tumor is fre- quently translucent. Encephalocele ex- ists when brain-tissue is extruded, forming a solid mass, which occupies the centre of the tumor. Hydrencephalocele is the term applied to those cases of encephalocele in which the centre of the mass contains a cavity, which some- times connects with the ventricles and contains fluid. It is supposed that Trephine openings for hemorrhage from the meningeal artery : m, anterior trunk ; a, a, a, its branches; p, poste- rior trunk; p' (dotted), abnormal course of same; /., Vogt's trephine opening; II, Kronlein's two openings; III., Witherle's; the two large circles show Steiner's openings. (Steiner.) Fig. 645. Meningocele, (tjraham.)