781 TUBERCULOUS ADENITIS. glands, the infection in these cases passing through the local lesion and reaching the glands without rendering the local lesion tuberculous. The involvement of the glands may also be secondary to distant foci in the lung or elsewhere. Tuberculous glands are found at all ages, but are most common about pu- . berty or soon after. (Fig. 691.) When several glands are affected, usually one or two will be larger than the rest. They vary from a pea to a walnut, and even to a hen's egg, in size, but large masses are exceptional, unless two or three glands have been fused into one. There is very commonly a periadenitis or inflamma- tion of the cellular tissue, which renders the gland adherent to the neighboring parts, and if the node lies just under the skin the latter also becomes involved. The glands may re- solve or remain stationary, or they may form Tubercular cervical adenitis, an abscess. The adherent skin may become thin and of a deep purple or blue color, and when the abscess has discharged a sinus is very apt to persist. If the primary lesion is in the mouth, the submaxillary glands will be invaded. Lesions of the face, the conjunctiva, the temple, or the skin in front of the ear affect the group of glands anterior to the sterno-mastoid ; while lesions of the ear itself affect those posterior to the sterno-mastoid as far back as the occiput, and lesions of the scalp affect the posterior groups of glands. Diagnosis.—In the diagnosis of tuberculosis, syphilis should be ex- cluded. Syphilitic enlargement of the glands of the neck is not common unless there is a general adenopathy. Syphilitic glands are hard and less likely to suppurate, and are more uniform in size. In elderly persons en- larged glands in the neck should excite suspicions of concealed malignant disease, and lead to a careful examination of the nose, throat, and mouth. Treatment.—The treatment of tuberculous glands of the neck calls for much judgment. If the glands are small and freely movable, they need not be touched, but attention should be paid to the general health and to re- moving the cause of the infection. Iodine is usually applied to the skin in these cases, but its utility in promoting resolution of the glands is doubtful. If a gland is visibly enlarging, or if a small gland tends to break down and form an abscess, it should be excised before this occurs. If a very large number of glands are involved, the question of operation will depend upon the condition of the patient. Advanced phthisis contra-indicates opera- tion ; but if there are slight signs of tuberculosis in the lung, large masses of glands should be removed, in order to relieve the patient of the tuberculous material. The incisions chosen in the operation should be such as will leave the least evident scars. The submaxillary region may be opened by raising a flap by an incision beginning at the middle line under the chin, curving downward to the hyoid bone and then upward towards the angle of the jaw. The glands anterior to the sterno-mastoid are removed by an incision along the anterior border of that muscle, and those posterior to it are best reached