946 DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES. serous coat only. The remaining portion of the stomach is then united to the jejunum, as in the ordinary operation for gastro-enterostoniy. The results of this method are far better than those of circular suture. Gastric Fistula.—It may be necessary to close a gastric fistula which has been produced by the external opening of abscesses communicating with the organ, by accidental injuries, or by operation. If the fistula is small or made by the Witzel method, it may close spontaneously. To close it by operation the abdomen must be opened, the stomach freed, the edges of the opening in the latter inverted and sutured, and the abdominal wound closed after cutting away its edges until healthy tissues are reached. Feeding after Operations on the Stomach.—Before any operation upon the stomach is performed, the organ should be thoroughly washed out with the tube. In the after-treatment of these cases feeding by the mouth is suspended and rectal alimentation employed for forty-eight hours. There is seldom any vomiting in resuming feeding by the mouth, provided the food be given in small quantities at first and limited to sterilized milk or pep- tonized milk and water. Solid food may be given in ten days. DISEASES OF THE INTESTINES. Foreign Bodies.—Foreign bodies which have been swallowed may lodge in the intestines, as well as large gall-stones or concretions of inspis- sated feces. Forks, knives, spoons, and tooth-brushes have been removed by operation either directly from the intestine or from abscesses which had formed by their perforation of the bowel. When small sharp objects have been swallowed, such as nails or pins, the best treatment is to feed the patient on large quantities of some food which will make bulky feces and form a bolus around the object and carry it safely through the canal without danger of perforation, potato being the best material for this purpose. In- tubation tubes are often swallowed, but usually pass without trouble. The larger foreign bodies, gall-stones, and concretions may give rise to intestinal obstruction, or may perforate the intestinal wall and cause peritonitis, either local or general. If an abscess is formed, the foreign body may make its way through the abdominal wall spontaneously and recovery ensue. As soon as the presence of these objects is known they should be removed from the bowel by laparotomy and incision. Inflammation. Ulcer. Stricture.—Ulceration of the bowel occurs in typhoid fever and dysentery, and may result in perforation followed by local or general peritonitis. Tubercular inflammation may cause perforation or may form solid tumors made up of the thickened wall of the bowel and of the peritoneal adhesions. When ulcers of the bowel heal, a stricture may be produced by cicatricial contraction or by surrounding adhesions, and this occurs most frequently in the neighborhood of the ileo-csecal valve as a result of typhoid fever or of tuberculosis. These strictures produce intestinal ob- struction, usually of a rather chronic type, which can be relieved by such operations as making an artificial anus, removing the diseased loop of bowel and uniting its ends, or making an intestinal anastomosis by uniting a loop of the bowel above to one below the point of stricture, so that the contents of the bowel may descend without passing through the narrowed portion.