PROCTITIS. 100S Stricture of the Anus.—This condition may be congenital, or may result from wounds, burns, scalds, or malignant growths of the anus, and occasionally results from operations upon the rectum, in which free removal of the structures has been practised. Sloughing of the tissues after the in- jection treatment for hemorrhoids and subsequent contraction have not in- frequently resulted in a marked stricture of the anus. We had recently under our care a man who had suffered from a stricture of the anus, through which the point of a No. 21 bougie could be passed only with difficulty. The stricture in this case resulted from sloughing following the injection of hemorrhoids by an irregular rectal specialist. Diagnosis.—The patient usually suffers from gradually increasing difficulty in passing formed motions, and notices that the stool when passed is tape-like in appearance. Ex- amination shows that the anal orifice is contracted, and in severe cases the finger cannot be passed through the stricture. Treatment.—The treat- ment of congenital strictures of the anus has been described. When the stricture results from malignant disease of the anus, the growth should be excised if possible. If the stricture is due to cicatricial contraction fol- lowing injuries or operations, gradual dilatation should first be employed, and this may be done with the finger or with graduated rubber bougies. If this method of treatment is not followed by good results, the cicatricial tissue should be excised and the mucous membrane brought down and sutured to the edges of the skin. Diphtheria of the Anus.—This condition is occasionally seen in patients suffering from diphtheritic deposits in the throat and nose. The affection is not often observed, and usually occurs as a late manifestation of the disease. In such cases the deposit of diphtheritic membrane appears upon the mucous membrane of the anus, and may extend to the buttocks or the vulva. The prognosis in this affection is extremely unfavorable. The few cases that have come under our notice have all terminated fatally. Treatment.—The treatment consists in the use of such constitutional reme- dies as are of service in the treatment of diphtheria, the injection of anti- toxine and the free use of stimulants. The local treatment consists in the application of a solution of bichloride of mercury 1 to 2000. Fistula in ano is considered in connection with ischio-rectal abscess. DISEASES OF THE EECTUM. Proctitis.—Proctitis, or inflammation of the rectum, may be traumatic, catarrhal, dysenteric, or gonorrhoeal. Traumatic proctitis may result from injury to the walls of the rectum received from without, from foreign. bodies lodged in the rectum, from the careless use of an enema syringe, or from injury to the mucous membrane by hardened feces or materials contained in the feces. Acute catarrhal proctitis may result from the irritation produced by the impaction of masses of hardened feces in the rectal pouch, from the use of drastic purga- tives, or from prolonged sitting upon a cold or wet seat, and in children may follow the irritation produced by seat-worms. This affection may also develop in connection with internal hemorrhoids, prolapsus, stricture, or tumor of the rectum. In acute proctitis the mucous membrane alone is