URETHRITIS. 1072 The lacuna magna and other follicles of the urethra are occasionally abnormally large and may be the seat of chronic inflammation or even small calculi, in which case they require free incision. True diverticula of the urethra are rare, but are found in the floor of the penile portion and may form sacs of immense size. These are also seen in the female (Fig. 829), and may require excision followed by plastic operations. Prolapse of the urethral mucous membrane takes place in women, usually as the result of stretching in parturition, combined with cystitis and straining in the act of urination. The prolapsed membrane may be intensely painful and tender and bleed when touched, forming the most common variety of the so-called urethral caruncle. It is best treated by excision and circular suture of the edges around the meatus. Inflammations.—Urethritis.—The inflammations to which the ure- thra is subject are principally gonorrhoeal, chancroidal, and tuberculous, but some pyogenic infection usually takes place at the same time. The female urethra is liable to the same infections as the male, but they are less intense and less apt to have serious complications, owing to the shorter and more direct course of the canal, which allows of better drainage. The venereal diseases are treated of in separate chapters. Tuberculosis of the urethra may be primary, and sometimes begins with the symptoms of an acute gonorrhoea or is inoculated simultaneously with a gonorr hoea. In other cases the first symptom is a scanty watery discharge mixed with a little blood. Extensive ulceration takes place, and if recov- ery should occur, which is improbable, stricture would undoubtedly follow. Tuberculosis of the urethra is almost invariably associated with the same inflammation in the prostate, to which the principal symptoms are due ; hence it will be considered with the diseases of the prostate. Periurethritis.—Pyogenic or gonococcus infection often reaches the tissues around the urethra through the follicles in the mucous membrane. These follicles may continue to be inflamed when the rest of the canal has recovered from the attack, and, the mouth of the follicle being closed by the swelling, a minute abscess may form, penetrate into the tissue outside of the urethra, and result in extensive suppuration. As a rule, these follicular abscesses are situated in the pendulous portion of the urethra, and form hard, not very painful swellings on the under surface of the penis. If left to themselves, they slowly point and discharge through the skin. In some cases the inflammation may be due to a drop of urine which remains stag- nant in one of the mucous glands, but when the abscess has once formed the connection with the urethra can seldom be found. When freely opened these abscesses generally heal at once. A very different type of periurethritis is seen as the result of urinary extravasation from injury of the urethra, which causes sloughing rather than suppuration, and may destroy the submucous cellular tissue from the triangular ligament forward even to the glans. The mucous membrane in such cases is entirely dissected from its surroundings, and the cellular tissue around it comes away through the incisions made to relieve the inflammation of the parts, so that the finger may be passed forward and backward entirely around the urethra, the vitality of the latter being sustained by its longitudinal vessels. Cicatricial narrowing may fol-