907 CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST. Myxoma is painful and forms tumors of varying consistency. Clinically they should be regarded as sarcomata, and should be removed by amputa- tion of the breast and never merely enucleated. Endothelioma.—In the breast endotheliomatous tumors may originate from the lining of the blood- or lymph-vessels, or from that of the lymph- spaces, and are commonly known as angiosarcomata. These tumors are single, movable, non-infiltrating tumors, not involving the lymph-nodes, but causing general metastasis. They occur in women over fifty years of age. They grow quite rapidly, and may be hard or soft; the skin tends to become adherent over them, but without the dimpling seen in carcinoma (Schmidt). Recurrence is very rapid, and from a clinical stand-point these tumors also must be classified with the sarcomata. Carcinoma.—Varieties.—The clinical history of carcinoma of the mamma varies with the structure of the tumor, according to the relative proportion of the epithelial cells and the fibrous tissue. An abundant growth of epithelial cells and a scanty fibrous stroma indicate an actively malignant course for the disease. Those tumors in which the fibrous tissue is abundant are known as scirrhus. We may distinguish clinically five types of carcinoma : 1st, ordinary carcinoma ; 2d, soft carcinoma, or enceph- aloid; 3d, scirrhus, in the ordinary form of which there is considerable fibrous tissue; 4th, atrophic scirrhus, which contains very few epithelial cells ; and, 5th, a rare form, known as colloid carcinoma. The colloid form can be dismissed with a few words, as it is very rare and of little clinical importance. The tumors are very slow in growth, and have a tendency to the formation of cysts containing a colloid material. Clinically, the tumors are densely hard, nodular, do not ulcerate very rapidly, and the skin is not involved early. The nipple is retracted and the glands are invaded, but the course of the disease is a slow one, the patients living ten years or more. Cystic degeneration of ordinary carcinoma is rare. Clinical History.—Carcinoma appears most commonly about the climac- teric, on the average at forty-eight years of age, rarely before thirty or after seventy years, and apparently without reference to marriage, childbirth, or nursing. In a small percentage of cases an acute mastitis or a blow upon the breast appears to be the direct cause. There is no difference between the right and left breasts in liability to the disease. The tumors grow with con- siderable rapidity in the ordinary cases, on the average reaching the size of a hen's egg in from six months to two years. They are situated at any part of the gland, but are most frequently found in the upper and outer quad- rants. They also frequently lie directly under the nipple, occupying the central part of the gland. The most dangerous situation is that in the upper inner quadrant, where infection of the lymphatics within the chest and above the clavicle occurs early. In rare cases the entire gland is attacked at once. In a few cases the second breast becomes cancerous, but this is probably an independent tumor and not a metastasis from the first. (See Fig. 765.) After the presence of the tumor has been noticed for from a few weeks to a year or more, the axillary (/lands can be felt enlarged, the average time being about fourteen months, and they are present in over two-thirds of the cases at the first examination. Instances have been noted, however, in which the