613 ACUTE SYNOVITIS OF THE HIP-JOINT. in the treatment of tubercular arthritis of the hip, knee, and ankle. Fixa- tion of the joint should be maintained for a considerable time, even after the evidences of active disease have disappeared, fixation for months or years often being required. If deformity of the joint has occurred before the case comes under the surgeon's care, this should be corrected by the application of weight extension or by tenotomy before the fixation apparatus is applied. Aspiration may be required in cases in which there is a large effusion in the joint or when a tuberculous abscess has formed. The treatment of tuber- cular joints by the injection of agents which favor the cicatrization of the new tissue and bring about destruction or encapsulation of the bacilli has re- cently been employed with most encouraging results. (See page 61.) When, in spite of rest or the injection of iodoform, the disease progresses and de- struction of tissues of the joint begins, operative treatment, such as arthrec- tomy, excision, or amputation, is often required. The operative treatment of tuberculosis of the joints, arthrectomy or excision, in children may be deferred to a later period than in adults, for in the former subjects recovery with ankylosis is more likely to occur, while in adults early operation is usually required. Amputation in tuberculosis of joints is rarely demanded, but is occasionally required as a life-saving measure in cases where there is extensive disease of the joints as well as of the periarticular structures, or in cases of multiple affection of the joints of the same limb, or where the patient presents marked exhaustion from profuse suppuration or shows evi- dence of beginning visceral disease. Amputation is sometimes required after excision where there is no improvement in the condition of the parts after this operation. In tubercular arthritis, in addition to the local treat- ment just described, the patient's constitutional condition should receive most careful attention. He should be given a nutritious and easily assimi- lated diet, and should be in the fresh air as much as possible; sea air is often very beneficial. The drugs which are most serviceable are iron, which may be given in the form of the iodide of iron, cod-liver oil, and syrup of hydriodic acid. DISEASES OF SPECIAL JOINTS. DISEASES OE THE HIP-JOINT. Simple Acute Synovitis of the Hip-Joint.—This affection is oc- casionally seen in the hip-joint, although, from the depth of the joint and its protection by muscles and fascia, it is not so much exposed to the causes producing it as some other joints. The condition may result from exposure to cold or from strains. Symptoms.—The symptoms are heat and stiff- ness, accompanied with pain, which is often referred to the knee, from the connection between the two joints by the obturator nerve ; swelling may be noticed over the front and back of the capsule, caused by effusion into the synovial sac and by oedeina. Flexion, abduction, and eversion of the thigh are also present. In the early stages of the affection the patient has a well- marked limp in walking, and later the pain and tenderness may be so great that he cannot use the limb. Diagnosis.—In young subjects it is often difficult to differentiate this affection from tuberculous arthritis of the hip or coxalgia, but the diagnosis can be made in most cases by observing