234 TREATMENT OF BURNS AND SCALDS. be given aromatic spirit of ammonia, n^xxx, diluted, or carbonate of am- monium, gr. v, at short intervals; lie should also be given an enema of whiskey, f3i, diluted, and strychnine should be administered in 3^ to grain doses hypodermically. In dressing such wounds, the clothing should be carefully removed or cut away, so as not to tear or injure the vesicles or blebs. If a large extent of surface is injured, it should be dressed a little at a time, so as not to expose the whole of it to the air for any considerable time. Eecent burns or scalds are sometimes aseptic wounds, and if they can be dressed so as to preserve this condition healing should be rapid and unattended with complications. Blebs or vesicles should be punctured with the point of a knife, to allow their contents to escape, and the epidermis should not be removed, as it serves to protect the denuded papillae until their surface is again covered with epithelium. If, however, the injury has been received some time before it comes under the care of the surgeon, the surface may be irrigated with a 1 to 4000 bichloride solution, freely dusted with powdered boric acid, and covered with a few layers of sterilized gauze and cotton. If a moist dressing is preferred, the injured surface may be covered with gauze moistened with boro-salicylic solution and covered with oiled silk or muslin. If it is considered desirable to apply an anti- septic dressing, this may be done by first irrigating the surface of the burn or scald, then covering it with sterilized protective, and over this applying a number of layers of bichloride gauze and cotton. When dry dressings are used they should be changed as infrequently as possible. The application of bichloride or of carbolized or iodoform gauze to the raw surface is not to be advised, as it may be followed by toxic effects. If sloughing of the tissues occurs, the dry dressings should be replaced by moist dressings of boro-salicylic solution, and when the sloughs have separated the granu- lating surface should be dressed with boric ointment. The application of a solution of nitrate of silver, gr. v to water fsi, will have a stimulating action upon the granulations. The constant warm bath has been em- ployed in the treatment of burns, especially in Germany : it is valuable in preventing sepsis, and is said to have very materially diminished the mortality. The bath should be of a temperature of 100° F. (38.8° C), and the burned or scalded part should be kept in this bath for some days, until the sloughs have separated and a granulating surface is present. This method seems especially applicable to cases of burns or scalds of the extremities, but has also been used in cases of similar injuries of the trunk, when the whole body has been kept iu the bath for a number of consecutive days and nights. When large healthy granulating surfaces are left after the separation of sloughs, much time may be saved in the heal- ing, and the resulting deformity from cicatricial contraction may be greatly diminished, by employing some form of skin-grafting, such as Thiersch's method or the transplantation of skin-flaps. The use of splints, extension apparatus, and position may do much to obviate deformity after burns, and it is well to remember that these appliances should be continued for a considerable time after the ulcerated surfaces are completely healed, for the contraction is apt to be active for some months. The treatment of burns or scalds involving the mucous membrane of the