857 SYMPTOMS OF FOREIGN BODIES IN THE AIR-PASSAGES. inspiratory act, when it usually excites violent coughing and is soon ex- pelled, or it may pass below the cords and enter the trachea or a bronchus. Various objects have entered the larynx and trachea and have been subsequently expelled or removed FlG- ?35- by operation—beads, pebbles, beans, pins, needles, coins, pencils (Fig. 735), particles of food, seeds of fruit, grains of corn, nuts, toys, etc. In Weist's collection of cases of foreign bodies in the larynx and trachea, in American cases a grain of corn was the body most frequently noted. Symptoms.—The symptoms following the en- trance of a foreign body into the larynx or trachea are spasmodic cough, spasm of the larynx, and a feeling of suffocation. If the body is a large one, or is so situated that it obstructs the admission of air, urgent dyspnoea and cyanosis of the face soon develop, and if relief is uot afforded by operation the patient perishes rapidly from suffocation. If dangerous symptoms do not develop immediately upon the introduction of the foreign body, the patient may be subject to recurrent attacks of suf- focation if the body is a movable one and is car- ried up against or lodged in the glottis. Profuse muco-purulent expectoration may occur if the body has remained in the trachea or larynx for some time, and is accompanied by loud wheezing and rales heard over the trachea. The body, if a movable one, may at any time become impacted in the glottis, causing sudden death, or below the vocal cords, or in a bronchus. With an impacted foreign body the greatest respiratory difficulty is observed in inspiration, while if the body is movable the difficulty is most marked in expiration. The pressure of enlarged or caseating lymphatic glands of the mediastinum upon the trachea or upon a bronchus may produce symptoms resembling those caused by an impacted foreign body in these locations, and the possibility of this condition should not be lost sight of when the history of a foreign body entering the air-passages is indefinite. Foreign Body in the Bronchus.—A foreign body is more likely to pass into the right bronchus than into the left, as the former more directly follows the line of the trachea ; the septum at the bifurcation being to the left of the middle line. If the bronchus is only partially occluded, there will be noticed diminished expansion of the lung on the affected side, and a loud murmur at the seat of obstruction may be detected upon auscultation. If the bronchus is completely closed by the foreign body, resonance on percussion is at first present, but collapse of the lung, with retraction of the chest, soon appears. If the body is impacted in one of the divisions of the primary bronchus, the respiratory action of a limited area of the lung may be arrested. A body impacted in a bronchus may remain in place for some time and then become suddenly loosened by an attack of coughing and be arrested at the glottis, producing death by suffocation, or may be expelled Lead-pencil impa and trachea. d in larynx (Cattell.)