1090 FOREIGN BODIES IN THE BLADDER. merit on both sides and above the pubes to the umbilicus. After some time the inflammation excited by the urine may cause oedema and redness of the surface. When the urine escapes into the peritoneal cavity the symptoms of a beginning peritonitis are present, but a perfectly healthy urine may be slow in exciting peritonitis, or the inflammation may be of a very low grade without definite symptoms for some days. Signs of uri- nary absorption, however, are present in nearly all cases, as shown by a quick hard pulse with a flushed face, and in advanced cases a typhoid condi- tion of the tongue and of the mind. The symptoms may. however, be very obscure and even absent, for in exceptional cases the patient is able to evac- uate the bladder at regular intervals, and no suspicion is entertained of a wound of that organ. The difficulty is added to by the fact that many of these patients are drunk at the time and are not aware of the injury. Diagnosis.—This must then be made mainly by the bladder symptoms when any are present, and some assistance can be gained by passing a catheter into the organ and injecting a sterilized fluid under very low pressure. If the same amount of fluid returns as is injected, it is proof that the bladder is not injured. This test should not be made until the patient is ready for operation, because the injected fluid may spread the infection, and the in- cision must be made directly after its introduction. The prognosis of these injuries is grave in the extreme, and spontaneous cure is scarcely to be hoped for, even in the extraperitoneal rents. Suppuration takes place as far as the urine has extended, and even if the peritoneum be not involved it results in the death of the patient. Treatment.—Free, opening of the abdominal wall and exposure of the bladder is the best method of treatment. The incision should be made in the median line as if for a suprapubic lithotomy, and the peritoneum not incised, but separated from the pubes. Careful examination should then be made of the anterior wall and the sides of the bladder with a finger in the wound and a sound in the organ. If any signs of urinary extravasation are found, they should be followed down to the point of escape. When the rent is discovered a drainage-tube should be inserted through it into the bladder and the external wound packed with gauze. The cellular tissue should be broken down with the fingers as far as the urinary extravasation has extended, and secondary incisions for drainage should be made if neces- sary. In recent cases, when the rupture of the bladder is high up and the tissues are sound, a suture may be applied to the wound in the organ, but the external wound should be packed and kept open. If signs of peritonitis are present, or if no extraperitoneal rupture can be found, the peritoneal cavity should be opened at once and the wound sought upon that surface of the organ. If it is found, it may be sutured after Lembert's method and the peritoneal cavity then drained, after thorough irrigation, as described in speaking of suppurative peritonitis. Foreign Bodies.—A great variety of foreign bodies have been found in the bladder, the majority having been introduced intentionally in erotic excitement or accidentally in using instruments. The most common are broken catheters, knitting-needles, hair-pins, pipe-stems, and such objects. Old rubber catheters often become brittle, and are then easily broken off.