LATERAL CURVATURE OF THE SPINE. 659 ■which cannot always be done with safety subeutaneously. Subcutaneous tenotomy is performed by making a puncture down to the tendon on the inner side and introducing a blunt-pointed tenotome beneath the tendon and cutting outward. Open incision is best performed by making the incision parallel with and one inch above the clavicle. It per- mits of thorough division of all resisting structures. In Fig. 592. both operations care must be taken to avoid wounding the anterior and internal jugular veins and the carotid artery, as several deaths from this operation have been due to hemorrhage. After tenotomy the head should be placed immediately in a position of over-correction and held there by plaster of Paris or other means for a couple of weeks, when a permanent apparatus can be applied, to be worn until cure is complete. (Fig. 591.) In cases due mainly to contraction of the posterior mus- cles, division of these is often difficult or even impos- sible, and forcible correction under ether is recommended by Bradford and Lovett. Spinal caries, which simulates this form of wry-neck, must first be carefully excluded. In the intermittent, spasmodic cases tenotomy or open incision is of little use, and the best results are obtained by division and resection of the spi- nal accessory nerve. The upper cer- vical nerves have also been resected in this form of wry-neck with suc- cess in some cases. CURVATURES OF THE SPINE. The natural curves of the spinal column are antero-posterior, with a slight lateral tendency at the upper part of the dorsal region. In the cervical region the curve is concave behind and convex in front; in the dorsal region the concavity is anterior and the convexity is posterior ; while in the lumbar region the concavity is posterior and the convexity is anterior. (Fig. 592.) The pathological curvatures of the spine are scoliosis, or lateral curvature ; kyphosis, an antero-posterior curvature with the convexity backward ; and lordosis, an antero-posterior curvature with the convexity forward. Lateral Curvature (Scoliosis).—In this affection the spine describes two or more lateral curves, with their convexities on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis of the back ; at the same time the relations of the vertebrae to the same axis are changed by rotation, so that the spinous processes point towards the concavities of the lateral curves. If the primary curve is in Apparatus after opera- tion for wry-neck. (Dr. G. G. Davis.) Normal curves of the spine. (Agnew.)