DISLOCATIONS OF THE PATELLA. 589 traction of the quadriceps muscle has a tendency to convert the angle into a straight line, and the patella is thrown outward. The bone may also be displaced by direct violence. Symptoms.—The breadth of the knee is in- creased, the internal condyle becomes unusually prominent, the limb is a little flexed, and the joint is fixed. Fig. 525. Fig. 526. Outward dislocation of the patella. (Agnew.) M Inward dislocation of the patella. (Agnew.) (Fig. 525.) The borders of the pa- tella may be felt, one anteriorly, the other posteriorly. Treat- ment.—Reduction is effected by placing the patient on his back and relaxing the quadriceps ex- tensor cruris muscle by elevating the leg, when the patella can usually be pressed back into place with the fingers. The after-treat- ment consists in the application of a posterior padded splint or a plaster of Paris bandage to fix the knee-joint, which should be worn for two or three weeks. Inward Dislocation of the Patella.—This luxation is an extremely rare one. Symptoms.—The knee is slightly flexed, and the patella is found resting against the articular surface of the internal condyle. (Fig. 526.) Treatment.—This dislocation is reduced by the same manipu- lation as that for the reduction of external dislocation of the patella, except that the patella is pressed outward : the after-treatment of the case is similar. Vertical Dislocation of the Patella.—Here the patella rests upon its edge in the groove between the condyles, or there may be a semi-revolution of the bone on its axis. (Fig. 527.) Symptoms.—The leg is ex- tended, and the edge of the patella can be recognized under the skin in front of the knee. The extensor mus- cles are in a state of tension. Treatment.—Reduction is accomplished, after anaesthetizing the patient, by flex- ing the thigh upon the abdomen, and while the limb is held in this position an assistant alternately flexes and extends the leg, while the surgeon manipulates the bone with his fingers until it slips into place. The after-treat- ment consists in fixation of the knee-joint for a few weeks by the application of a i>osterior splint, or by the use of a plaster of Paris bandage. Upward and Downward Dislocations of the Patella.—These dislocations can result only from elon- gation or rupture of the ligamentum patellae or the tendon of the quadriceps extensor. Symptoms.—The symptoms of either of these dislocations are similar to those of fracture of the patella. Treat- Vertical dislocation of the patella. (Agnew.)