733 HARE-LIP. bilateral cleft with absence of the central piece. Congenital median clefts have been observed in the upper lip in very rare instances, due to fissure of the central part, but they are usually a slight furrow or a sinus. Hare-lip occurs in one case in 2400 of the newly born. The prognosis of this deformity, if cleft palate coexist, is rather serious. In these cases the passage from the nose to the mouth is left open, and the child is very liable to respiratory diseases, because the air enters through Fic5. 656. Fig. 657. Single hare-lip. Double hare-lip with cleft palate, showing intermaxillary bone. this gap instead of being filtered through the nose. The children also swallow badly, and foreign bodies, such as food, easily find their way into the lungs, causing infectious pneumonia. For this reason operation should be done early, usually at the age of about three months, but in strong infants it may be performed earlier. Treatment.—All the many operations suggested for hare-lip consist in freshening the sides of the cleft and bringing them together. Some op- erators take off only the border of the cleft, while others cut away the entire central piece, even in the unilateral cases, claiming that in this way they get a more symmetrical union with the scar in the middle line. But the operations most frequently employed are three or four in number. In very slight cases, with only a notch in the vermilion border, the method of Nelaton may be selected. A A-shaped incision is made above the cleft in the lip, the apex of the cleft is seized with forceps and drawn down, and the ends of the incision (a, b, Fig. 658) are sutured across the gap, so that the transverse angular line becomes a vertical straight one. The little teat of mucous membrane made by drawing the flap down is left projecting at the edge, and is taken up afterwards by the contraction of the scar. The method most commonly useful is the operation of Mirault, in which one side of the cleft is freshened Fig. 659), but on the other side a small flap is cut (cd) with its base below. The flap (cd) is drawn down and across to the other side (the apex c being united to b), and the sutures in-