619 DIAGNOSIS OF HIP-DISEASE. Hip-disease may be confounded with caries of the spine, synovitis of the hip, periarthritis, perinephric or appendicial abscess, hysteria, infantile paralysis, malignant disease, and congenital dislocation. Hip-disease may be differentiated from caries of the spine by the facts that in the latter the limp is different, the spine is rigidly fixed, and upon examination spinal deformity can usually be observed ; the motions of ab- duction and adduction are restricted in hip-disease, while in spinal caries they are usually not impaired ; extension may be limited from involvement of the psoas and iliacus muscles ; in spinal caries palpation will often reveal an inflammatory mass or abscess in the region of the psoas muscle. Acute synovitis of the hip is a rare affection, and occurs after injury or exposure to cold. The deformity, which is noticed early, consists of ful- ness in the region of the joint, and the pain is referred to the joint; in hip-disease the symptoms develop more slowly, and do not yield so readily to treatment. Periarthritis is a phlegmonous inflammation of the cellular tissue over the hip, and is accompanied by fever, pain, and redness of the skin ; an abscess soon forms, and upon opening this recovery takes place promptly. Appendicial and perinephric abscess may cause flexion of the thigh and limping from pressure of the collection upon the psoas muscle, but upon examination it will be found that adduction and abduction of the joint are not interfered with, and extension only is limited ; abdominal or lumbar fulness, due to the presence of the abscess, can also be demonstrated. Hysterical affections of the hip-joint may simulate hip-disease, but in such cases many of the symptoms of the latter disease ai"e wanting, and an exami- nation of the patient under an anaesthetic will show that the motions of the joint are absolutely unrestricted, and other symptoms of hysteria can usiially be demonstrated. Infantile Paralysis.—In this disease the history of the invasion is different from that in hip-disease ; there is no pain, but paralysis with marked muscular atrophy, and there is also no fixation of the hip-joint. Malignant disease of the hip is rare, and is more apt to be seen in adults, while hip-disease is more common in children. Sarcoma of the thigh in children is more apt to involve the shaft or the lower extremity of the femur, but may occur in the upper extremity of the bone. We have seen a case of sarcoma of the upper extremity of the femur in which at first the symptoms closely resembled hip-disease. Congenital dislocation cannot be confounded with hip-disease if the surgeon notes the waddling gait in the former affection, the absence of pain, and the fact that the deformity and peculiar gait were noticed as soon as the patient began to walk. Prognosis.—This depends largely upon the surroundings of the patient and the treatment. In children who are well treated and well taken care of a large proportion of cases will recover, with more or less deformity or dis- ability of the affected joint. In many cases of hip-disease, and especially the ill fed and poorly nourished cases which are admitted to children's hos- pitals, in spite of the most careful treatment, disorganization of the affected joint occurs, abscesses form, followed by profuse suppuration, amyloid changes in the liver and kidneys occur, or tubercular meningitis or visceral tuberculosis develops and causes a fatal termination. In well-to-do patients the prognosis is good ; but the treatment may have to extend over a period