825 CATARACT. arteries, while the field of vision is markedly contracted, usually upon the nasal side. Glaucoma is rare before the fortieth year, and is said to be slightly more common in women than in men. Certain races, particularly the Jews, are especially liable to the disease. It is more common in hypermetropic eyes than in those with normal or myopic refraction, and is excited in eyes pre- disposed to the disease by insomnia, bronchitis, arterial sclerosis, and gout. It sometimes follows the instillation of atropine, and this drug and all other mydriatics are always contra-indicated in the treatment of this disease^ or of eyes predisposed to it. Treatment.—The medicinal treatment of acute glaucoma consists in the instillation of a solution of sulphate of eserine, one-half or one grain to the ounce. Pain may be relieved by hot compresses, leeches, and the exhibition of morphine and chloral. At the earliest moment, however, a broad periph- eral iridectomy should be performed. (See Fig. 716.) In chronic or so-called simple glaucoma the value of iridectomy is much more problematical. If the progress of the disease fails to yield to eserine or hydrochlorate of pilocarpine (one-eighth or one-quarter of a grain to the ounce), and if the iris is not atrophied, iridectomy or, in some instances, sclerotomy ought to be performed. Much judgment is required to determine the value of operative procedures in this type of the disease. In addition to these varieties of glaucoma there are others, which are known as Subacute inflammatory glaucoma, in which the symptoms are analo- gous to the chronic types, with more tendency to inflammatory involve- ment. Glaucoma fulminans, in which all the inflammatory symptoms are greatly magnified, and blindness comes on with great suddenness. Secondary glaucoma, in which the increased tension and the glaucoma symptoms are seen in connection with other diseases of the eye, particularly iritis and cyclitis. Hemorrhagic glaucoma, in which, in addition to the glaucoma symp- toms, there are hemorrhages in the retina. The treatment of these varieties must be conducted on the principles applicable to the ordinary types, save only that in hemorrhagic glaucoma iridectomy is usually a dangerous procedure and is apt to be followed by increased hemorrhage. Some good may be obtained by posterior sclerotomy, or by tapping the vitreous, in addition to the local medicinal treatment already described. CATAEACT. Cataract, or an opaque condition of the crystalline lens, anatomically is divided into lenticular, capsular, and capsulo-lenticxdar cataract. Clinically, the following varieties are distinguished : senile, juvenile or congenital, compli- cated or secondary, traumatic, and after-cataract. Senile cataract usually forms after the fifteenth year of life, and is hard—i.e., the nucleus of the lens is large. The opacities begin in the cor- tex (cortical cataract) or at the nucleus (nuclear cataract). The growth from incipiency to maturity may occupy from one to three years, or longer.