knee-joint. Excision of the knee-joint. Incision for excision of the 647 EXCISION OF THE PATELLA. should be removed with a gouge or gouge forceps. In excising the knee- joint for ankylosis with flexion, a very large portion of the condyles and of the head of the tibia may require removal before the limb can be brought into a straight position, and if the deformity has existed for some time con- siderable contracture of the muscles may have resulted, requiring a division of the hamstring tendons before the deformity can be satisfactorily corrected. In such cases care should be exercised in making forcible straightening of the limb, to avoid rupturing the popliteal vein or popliteal artery. In ex- cising the knee-joint in young persons care should be taken also to remove only so much bone as may be done without encroaching upon the lines of the epiphyseal cartilages, as injury of the latter will interfere with the subsequent growth of the limb. After sufficient bone has been removed to allow the limb to be brought into proper position, hemorrhage should be controlled by the application of ligatures, and fixation of the excised ends may be secured by introducing heavy silver wire sutures, steel nails, ivory pegs, or chromicized catgut or kangaroo sutures. Drainage need not be in- troduced into the wound, and the incision should be closed by sutures. After applying a gauze dressing to the wound the limb is enveloped in a flannel bandage and a plaster of Paris dressing applied from the foot to the groin. If for any reason it is considered desirable not to use this form of fixation dressing, after the wound has been dressed the limb should be placed upon a bracketed wire splint, which is fastened to the leg and thigh by straps and bandages, and the dressing is secured to the wound by a separate bandage. This allows the wound to be dressed, if necessary, with- out any disturbance of the bones. The result of an excision of the knee is shown in Fig. 577. Excision of the Patella.—Excision of this bone may be required in cases of compound comminuted fractures, or for caries or necrosis. In the former class of cases no formal method of excision is practised, loose frag- ments being simply removed ; when the operation is undertaken for disease, a longitudinal or crucial incision is made over the patella, the periosteum is Fig. 576.