TUBERCULOUS ARTHRITIS OF THE ANKLE. 627 By the use of some of these various forms of fixation apparatus recovery may occur with more or less loss of function in the joint. The amount of motion remaining depends largely upon the extent of destruction of the articular cartilages. In cases where the disorganization of the joint is ex- tensive and the patient suffers from hectic and is losing ground, the ques- tion of operative treatment must be considered. Excision, arthrectomy or erasion, or amputation may be performed. Arthrectomy or erasion is to be preferred to excision in young children, as the latter operation is apt to damage the epiphyseal cartilages and interfere with the subsequent growth of the limb. Amputation is reserved in disease of the knee-joint for cases in which there is extensive disorganization of the joint with involvement of the contiguous bones and soft parts. The special operations upon the knee-joint are considered under Excisions. AFFECTIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. Simple Acute Synovitis.—This condition usually arises from trau- matism, and is characterized by the symptoms of acute synovitis—limitation of motion, pain, and swelling; the swelling may be most marked in front of the joint on either side of the extensor tendons, or behind the joint on either side of the tendo Achillis. Treatment.—This consists in putting the joint at rest by the application of a splint and the use of such lotions as lead water and laudanum or muriate of ammonium and laudanum. After a few days, when the pain has diminished and the swelling has subsided, the joint should be fixed by the application of a plaster of Paris dressing or a silicate of sodium splint. Care should be taken not to keep the joint im- mobilized for too long a time, and after wearing either of these dressings for a few weeks they should be removed, and the patient encouraged to use the joint. Massage in the latter stages of this affection is often most useful in bringing about restoration of function. Tuberculous Arthritis of the Ankle-Joint.—Tuberculous disease of the ankle-joint may be either synovial or osteal in its origin. The disease is more apt to develop in the astragalus than in the articular ends of the bones of the leg, or it may be secondary to disease of the other tarsal bones or of the malleoli. Symptoms.—In this affection there is stiffness of the ankle, and more or less swelling is usually ob- served about the anterior surface of the ankle or behind the joint on each side of the tendo Achillis. If there is much intra- articular effusion, swelling may be marked. Pain, characteristic of ostitis, is also present, and is most marked when attempts are made to move the joint. As the disease advances, the foot is held in the extended position and Fig. 553. Tuberculous arthritis of the ankle.