37 SIMPLE ULCER. mere presence of an ulcer, as is frequently done in speaking of ulceration of the throat or rectum. Ulcers must be distinguished clinically, on the one hand, from fresh or granulating woiands, for as soon as an ulcer begins to heal it ceases, strictly speaking, to be an ulcer, and, on the other hand, from the mode of extension of an abscess, although pathologically we may not be able to distinguish between these conditions and an ulcer. Etiology.—Ulcers are the result of local causes, such as injury, infection (pyogenic, tubercular, syphilitic, etc. ), the breaking down of neoplasms, and interference with the circulation by varicose veins, pressure from within by the growth of benign tumors, or embolism. The great majority are also partly dependent upon constitutional conditions causing a lowered vitality, such as acute or chronic diseases (typhoid fever, syphilis) or mineral poi- soning. The constitutional condition is generally the predisposing, and the local lesion the exciting, cause of the ulcer. Sometimes no definite cause is discoverable, and such ulcers must still be termed simple ulcers. Chronic ulcers of the skin are three times more common in men than in women, and the aged are not more liable to them than persons in middle life. The most frequent site for these ulcers is on the leg, owing to the greater liability of that part to impaired circulation and to injury. They are often associated with varicose veins, but the large number of individuals with such veins who never have ulcers shows that there is no absolutely necessary causal relationship. It may be that varicose veins do not cause ulcers unless the dilatation has involved the minute venous radicles in the skin. Tubercu- lous and syphilitic ulcers are described on page 39. A simple ulcer presents a base covered with more or less healthy granu- lations, nearly level with the surrounding skin, a rather regular circular or oval outline, and a scanty serous or sero-purulent discharge, with few if any inflammatory signs about it. When the ulcer becomes chronic or indolent, the granulations become paler and smaller, the edges thickened and indurated, and the discharge thinner and more abundant. "When still further deteriorated the base of the ulcer is without granulations, but is covered with a thin, white, necrotic layer, which on removal discloses a white or pale pink surface as smooth as mucous membrane. In some cases the surface looks quite raw, as if it were a fresh injury, so that skin, con- nective tissue, and muscular fibres can be distinguished at the bottom if muscle happens to lie beneath the ulcer. The base lies below the level of the surrounding skin, and is sometimes deeply excavated. The edges are thick, sloping gradually or rising abruptly from the base, and very hard, the induration also extending beneath the base of the ulcer. The dis- charge is very thin, and may be profuse or scanty, usually the latter. The surrounding skin is not inflamed, and the whole picture is one of lack of vitality. If such an ulcer becomes inflamed, dermatitis and cellulitis will appear around it, the base will become reddened, and the discharge puru- lent ; but granulations seldom appear even then, or if they do they soon perish. Sometimes the thickened edges become uneven and warty, and epitheliomatous degeneration sets in, the induration spreading into the surrounding skin, and friable, granulation-like prominences, which bleed readily, appear in the base of the ulcer, with a foul discharge. Varicose