URETHRAL FEVER. 1076 who are less robust, and especially if the bladder and kidneys are already diseased. The constitutional symptoms of urinary extravasation are usually very severe, for in addition to the ordinary symptoms of cellulitis, such as pain, fever, rigors, and prostration, the constituents of the urine are ab- sorbed by the tissues, and a condition of uraemia is produced, with con- tracted pupils, a urinary odor to the breath, a hard, quick pulse, dyspnoea, coma or delirium, and, finally, convulsions. Some of these urseniic symp- toms are undoubtedly caused by interference with the action of the kidneys by the damming back of the urine, but the majority are the result of absorp- tion of the extravasated urine. In other cases the urinary extravasation takes place much more slowly, only a few drops escaping at a time, and localized abscesses are produced, which, on being opened, result in the for- mation of urinary fistula? in the perineum and scrotum. As a rule, urinary infiltration does not affect the skin itself, and it is only in extreme cases that any considerable amount of skin becomes gangrenous, although in such cases the entire covering of the penis and scrotum may be lost. While acute retention may have these immediate consequences, the more chronic form results in over-distention of the bladder and an increased back- ward pressure on the kidneys, with a greater liability to infection and inflam- mation of both. In such cases the patient is unable to evacuate the bladder completely, aud gradually that organ becomes distended to its utmost and loses its contractile power, when a condition of overflow is established in which the urine constantly dribbles away. In such cases the complication of kidney disease will usually be found, and its symptoms are added to those of the urethral condition. Such patients are amende, and worn out by suffering and loss of sleep, the establishment of leakage by overflow being preceded by a long jjeriod of frequent and painful micturition. The mictu- rition is not increased in frequency at night, thus differing from the symp- toms of prostatic hypertrophy. Patients with tight stricture usually suffer an impairment of sexual power, and may become impotent. Prognosis.—The prognosis of a stricture depends upon its extent rather than its calibre, for a stricture involving a large part of the urethra will cause more obstruction to the passage of the urine and be more liable to the accidents of retention and urinary extravasation than a narrow band of the same calibre. If the bladder is healthy, and tolerance is established so that the urine is regularly evacuated, even if the intervals be frequent and the amount be small, the patient may enjoy tolerably good health. If his habits are irregular, however, acute retention may set in at any moment, and in any case the symptoms will constantly grow worse. The danger to life de- pends upon the condition of the bladder and kidneys. The presence of cystitis or pyelitis renders the prognosis very bad, and also increases the danger of treatment. The Use of Bougies and Catheters.—Urethral Fever.—In any ex- amination or treatment of the urethra the most thorough antiseptic precau- tions are necessary. The instruments, the hands, and the penis must be most carefully cleansed and sterilized. If antiseptic precautions are not observed, urethral fever may occur, either at once or the next time that the patient passes water. The fever begins with a severe chill, and the