1084 EXTERNAL URETHROTOMY. tiously explored with the probe and director, using the greatest gentleness. When the urethra has been opened, a probe or director will pass readily back- ward to the bladder or forward towards the meatus, and if there is the least obstacle to its passage the operator may feel certain that he is merely pushing the instrument parallel with the urethra in some of the cellular planes. If the urethra cannot be found and the symptoms are acute, with much extravasation of urine, lateral incisions may be made on each side at right angles to the median one, and the patient allowed to recover from the anaes- thetic. In the majority of cases it will be found that the urine passes by the wounds, and the opening into the urethra can be discovered then, or after the sloughs have separated. If urinary extravasation exists, the sur- geon should not be content with merely opening the urethra, but should make incisions through the skiu and cellular tissue of all the inflamed region in order to allow free escape to the urine. The scrotum, the penis, the tissues of the perineum, and the anterior surface of the abdomen must all be treated in this way, and all loose sloughs removed. An anaesthetic is not necessary for these incisions, as the parts are generally insensitive and the patient is often so weak that anaesthesia would be dangerous. In extreme cases it is best not to attempt an external urethrotomy if no guide can be passed, but to be satisfied with these free incisions, one of which should be made deeply in the median line of the perineum in the direction of the urethra without endeavoring to find that canal, as the urine will probably make its own way out. In some cases it may be necessary to relieve the bladder at once, when a suprapubic cystotomy may be done and an instrument passed forward into the urethra from the bladder—retrograde catheterization. In other cases suprapubic aspiration of the bladder may be performed for temporary relief. The after-treatment of external urethrotomy consists in the maintenance of a drainage-tube or catheter in the bladder for two or three days, after which the wound can be packed if the bladder is healthy. If cystitis exists, drainage should be maintained longer. The sounds must be introduced at regular, slowly lengthened intervals, as after internal urethrotomy. In Syme's method of external urethrotomy the incision is made at the seat of the stricture upon a grooved guide with a shoulder which rests against the anterior face of the stricture. In Wheelhouse's method a sound with a bulbous end of peculiar shape is passed down to the stricture and the urethra opened anteriorly to the latter. The bulbous end of the sound is brought out of the wound and answers as a retractor, exposing the anterior end of the stricture, so that the entrance to it may be sought with a probe under the guidance of the eye. These methods are now seldom employed. In cases of stricture with very dense masses of cicatricial tissue some sur- geons cut away all the scar-tissue after performing external urethrotomy, but this is seldom necessary, as it melts away spontaneously after free in- cision. Resection of the stricture followed by suture of the urethra appears to be growing in popularity and is well suited for deep strictures limited to a small extent of the urethra, especially those of traumatic origin. The best method is that of Guyon, who resects the floor and sides of the canal, leaving the roof untouched, which is usually not much altered, and sutures the wound as described in rupture of the urethra.