467 FRACTURES OF THE RADIUS. ture of the lower end of the bone. There is often a dislocation or fracture of the styloid process of the ulna associated with fracture of the lower end of the radius. The most common fracture of the lower end of the radius is known as Colles's fracture; it occupies a position from half an inch to an inch and a half above the articular surface of the bone, and presents a very characteristic deformity, known as the silver fork deformity. (Fig. 382.) The fracture may consist in an oblicpie or a transverse separation of the bone above the articular extremity ; it may be comminuted (Fig. 383), or it may consist in a sepa- ration of the posterior lip of the articular surface of the radius ; the latter is extremely rare, and is known as Barton's fracture. Fig. 382. Fig. 383. Deformity in Colles's fracture. Comminuted fracture of the lower end of the radius. (Agnew.) Symptoms.—The symptoms of fracture of the lower end of the radius are pain, disability, and crepitus. There is also usually a prominence on the back of the arm, due to the upper end of the lower fragment, and another in front of the arm, due to the lower end of the upper fragment. There is a certain amount of inclination of the hand to the radial side of the arm, accompanied by prominence of the styloid process of the ulna. Diagnosis.—Fracture of the lower end of the radius may be confounded with dislocation at the wrist; this is an extremely rare accident, while frac- ture is a very common one. In dislocation there is no crepitus, but in fracture this can usually be recognized, except in cases of impacted fracture. The deformity in fracture is reduced by extension and counter-extension, and when the force is removed the deformity reappears. In dislocation when the deformity is once reduced there is no tendency to its reproduction. Prognosis.—The results following fracture of the lower end of the radius are generally satisfactory if the primary deformity is corrected, but occasionally a certain amount of impairment of motion of the wrist is ob- served, and sometimes interference with pronation and supination results in spite of the most careful treatment. Treatment.—The treatment of fracture of the lower end of the radius consists, first, in reducing the deformity. This is accomplished by grasping the forearm above the seat of fracture and with the other hand grasping the hand of the fractured arm and making extension, at the same time tilting the lower fragment backward by bending the hand back ; then by sud- denly flexing the hand the lower fragment is brought downward and forward and the deformity is corrected. We are satisfied that many of the unsatisfactory results following fractures of the lower end of the radius