1019 TREATMENT OF INTERNAL HEMORRHOIDS. be so free after each movement of the bowels as to cause the patient to present marked symptoms of ansemia, and is occasionally so profuse as to produce syncope. Prolapse of internal hemorrhoids at stool is common, but the tumors can usually be re- turned within the sphincter without difficulty. (Fig. 814.) Pain in internal hemorrhoids is not common, unless the tumors become inflamed or strangulated. Strangulation and gangrene may occur if the hemorrhoids are ex- traded from the anus and are tightly grasped by the sphincter. ^ Mucous discharge from the anus j may also be quite free in case of internal hemorrhoids. Diagnosis.—Internal hemor- rhoids may be confounded with cancer of the rectum, polypus, and prolapsus, as these diseases present, in common with internal hemor- rhoids, bleeding and a tumor; but a careful examination cannot fail to dis- close the true nature of the trouble. A prolapsed and congested polypus presents some resemblance to internal hemorrhoids, but upon reducing the polypus and introducing the finger its attachment to the rectal wall by a pedicle can easily be felt. The appearance of a case of prolapsus is charac- teristic, and a malignant growth, with its comparatively firm structure and its surrounding induration, cannot, after careful exploration, be confounded with hemorrhoids. Treatment.—Operative treatment is not required in all cases of hemor- rhoids. Internal hemorrhoids may be symptomatic of other diseases, such as disease of the liver or of the kidneys, or may be due to malignant or benign stricture of the rectum at a higher point, or to the presence of a vesical calculus, stricture of the urethra, or enlarged prostate, and in women preg- nancy or uterine disease may be the cause of their development. In such cases the condition which is a factor in their production should be removed by medical treatment or by operation, and often after this is removed the hemorrhoids disappear. If they do not, an operation for their removal should be undertaken. The treatment of internal hemorrhoids may be palliative or radical. The palliative treatment consists in the regulation of the bowels, and, as constipation always aggravates the condition, the patient should be given a saline laxative each morning, sulphate of sodium or of magnesium being the best, to secure a soft movement daily ; the use of a small enema of water after each stool may also be followed by good results. An ointment of ext. belladonna, gr. x; ext. opii, gr. v; ext. stramonii, gr. xl ; ext. hama- melidis, 3i; adipis, |i, can also often be employed with advantage. If hemorrhage is a prominent symptom, an astringent ointment containing tannic acid or persulphate of iron may be smeared over the tumor when it Fig. 814. Prolapsed internal hemorrhoids.