87 ODONTOMES. but the branchial and dermoid cysts appear to be very rare in the median line, being usually situated laterally on the anterior surface of the neck. Many of the cysts in the median line of the thorax are to be considered as dermoid or branchial cysts which have developed in the neck and then wan- dered downward by gravity, as is not uncommon in fluid tumors, so that they may appear in front of the sternum, and they must not be confused with dermoid cysts originating in this situation. The tumors originating from the thyroglossal tract may be reached externally, or through the floor of the mouth in front of the tongue, but the external operation should be preferred, as it will be more aseptic. ODONTOMATA. An odontome is a tumor developing from some part of the tooth-germ. A tooth-germ may be displaced and may grow abnormally, just as fragments of displaced epithelial tissue form dermoid cysts. We therefore consider the odontomes next to the congenital cysts, although they originate at a later period. Classification.—Sutton classifies the odontomes according to the part of the tooth-germ from which thev arise. 1. From the enamel orean come certain epithelial cystic tumors, usually multilocular, which may attain a very large size and involve the entire jaw, although individual cysts are generally small. The gross ap- pearances of these tumors resem- ble those of giant-celled sarco- mata of the bone. 2. Follicular odontomata. From the tooth- follicle originates a tumor con- taining as a centre a more or less irregularly developed tooth, which may be very small. (Fig. 45.) A large amount of fluid may surround the tooth in the distended follicle and form a cyst of considerable size, called a dentigerous cyst. If the sac of this cyst thickens and the fluid disappears, a solid tumor is formed, in which the small and malformed tooth may be overlooked. This variety is known as a fibrous odontome ; but the sac may also calcify or even ossify. Sometimes several tooth-follicles are con- cerned in this process, and a large number of irregular teeth are found, to the number of three or four hundred in one tumor, which may form large irregularly shaped masses of fibrous material, partly calcified or ossified, and containing cystic cavities. 3. Tumors arising from the papillae are called radicular tumors. They contain only cementum and dentine, and are rare tumors, found attached to the roots of the teeth. 4. Composite odonto- mata. (Fig. -46.) Sometimes all parts of the tooth-germ are concerned in Fig. 45. Follicular odontome or dentigerous cyst. (Agnew.)