979 VENTRAL AND OBTURATOR HERNIA. Ventral Hernia in the middle line close to the umbilical opening is not very rare. Similar protrusions in the epigastric region are peculiar in that they often consist merely of a little mass of the preperitoneal fat, but in other cases there is a peritoneal sac which contains omentum or even intestine. Euptures are also often found in the linea? semilunares and in the linese transversa?, showing the tendency of these protrusions to take place through the fibrous parts of the abdominal wall rather than through the muscular. Hernia may take place through the substance of the muscles near the inguinal rings and simulate the ordinary inguinal rupture. A separation of the rectus muscles produces a form of ventral hernia which is almost invariably found in women, especially after pregnancy. The separation may occur anywhere from the umbilicus to the pubes, and may extend the entire distance, giving exit to a large part of the abdominal contents and to the pregnant uterus. With this condition we may compare a congenital weakness of the linea alba occasionally seen at birth, extending from the umbilicus upward to the ensiform cartilage, but disappearing spon- taneously as the tendon gains in strength and the child grows. Lumbar Hernia.—Hernise occur in the lumbar region through the tri- angle of Petit or immediately beneath the twelfth rib under the latissimus dorsi, where it covers the transversalis fascia. These hernise are uncommon, but they sometimes attain a large size. There may be a congenital de- ficiency of the muscles of the abdomen at any part through which hernia may occur, with the ordinary characteristics of a ventral hernia. In one case observed by us in a young child, an opening as large as the palm of the hand was situated to the right of the umbilicus, and extended backward to the lumbar region. It became reduced to one-quarter of its size spon- taneously as the child developed, and was then easily closed by operation. Obturator Hernia.—Hernial protrusions may take place through the obturator foramen at its upper border, the relations of the obturator nerve and vessels to the neck of the sac being variable. These herniae occur almost exclusively in women. They are of slow formation, and are very difficult of recognition, because of the small size of the tumor and of its situation in the deepest part of the thigh. The pressure of the tumor upon the obtura- tor nerve occasions the so-called Howship-Eomberg symptom, which is very useful in diagnosis—namely, the pain referred to the distribution of the obturator nerve on the inner side of the thigh and leg, and even reaching the great toe. Occasionally a paralysis of the adductor muscles supplied by the nerve has also been noted. Certain movements of the hip-joint may cause pain by the pressure of the obturator muscles upon the tumor, and tender- ness may be detected by deep pressure in Scarpa's space. Examination by the vagina or by the rectum may aid in diagnosis by the detection of a loop of bowel adherent in that neighborhood. Obturator hernia is frequently complicated by inguinal or femoral hernia, and if symptoms of strangula- tion exist when the inguinal or femoral hernia is evidently not strangulated, search should be made for an obturator hernia. Sciatic and Perineal Herniae.—In rare instances hernia takes place at the greater or lesser sciatic notch above or below the pyriformis muscle, and the tumor may extend forward to the groin or upward towards the