232 BURNS AND SCALDS. Muscles and Tendons.—Gunshot wounds of muscles are not usually attended with extensive destruction of the tissue except in the immediate line of the passage of the ball. Gunshot wounds of tendons may cause their division or perforation. If the ball is moving at high velocity it is not likely that it will be deflected by the tendon. Blood-Vessels.—Arteries and veins may be divided or perforated in gunshot injuries, the wound being followed by profuse or fatal hemorrhage. If, however, the walls of the vessels are contused, repair may take place, but if the wound becomes infected, subsequent sloughing of the vessel is likely to occur, giving rise to secondary hemorrhage. Simultaneous perforation of an artery and a vein may give rise to an arterio-venous aneurism. Nerves.—In gunshot wounds nerves may be completely or incompletely divided or contused, giving rise to pain or loss of motion or sensation in the parts supplied by the injured nerve, which may be followed by trophic changes. Neuralgia may also follow gunshot wounds of nerves from the involvement of the nerve-fibres in the cicatrix at the seat of injury or from the development of a neuroma. Nerve-trunks are more likely to escape injury than blood-vessels of corresponding size. BTTR^S AND SCALDS. A burn represents the destructive effect upon the tissues produced by contact with a flame, radiated heat, or heated substances. A scald repre- sents a corresponding effect produced by hot liquids or steam. In a burn the superficial hairs are scorched or burned off, while in a scald they are not changed in appearance but may fall out later. Concentrated acids and alkalies, either solid or liquid, applied to the tissues, produce a condition very similar to that resulting from burns and scalds. Burns are apt to be more circumscribed and deeper than scalds; in scalds, from the fact that hot fluids are rapidly diffused over the surface by saturation of the clothing, the injury is likely to be more superficial. Burns and scalds may involve not only the skin and subcutaneous tissues, but also the mucous membrane, especially that of the mouth, pharynx, nose, and conjunctiva. Scalds or burns of the mouth and epiglottis may occur from the inhalation of steam or hot gases. The effects of burns and scalds upon the tissues depend upon the actual temperature of the heated body or fluid and the duration of its application. The instantaneous contact of a splash of molten metal will produce a super- ficial burn, while a few seconds' contact with the same substance will pro- duce deep destruction of the tissues. The conditions resulting from burns and scalds are clinically so nearly alike that they may be considered to- gether. Classification.—Dupuytren's classification of burns in six degrees, according to the extent of injury inflicted, is very generally employed ; but we are inclined to think a more practical classification is that of Morton, who divides burns and scalds into three degrees or classes: first, those which present hyperemia or erythematous inflammation of the skin without vesication; second, those in which there is inflammation of the skin with