929 TUBERCULAR PERITONITIS. with which we have had the best success ; but some surgeons prefer to begin at once with large doses of sulphate of magnesium in order to obtain free movements of the bowels. It has been our experience, however, that this method of treatment increases the vomiting, and that it is usually impos- sible to get the bowels to move under these circumstances. McCosh has recently reported a series of successful cases treated by the injection of one drachm of a saturated solution of magnesium sulphate into a high loop of the small intestine with a hypodermic syringe during the operation, the puncture being closed by a Lembert suture. There is no objection to at- tempts at moving the bowels by enemata, but these are rarely successful. Stimulants are generally necessary in large doses to combat the septic poi- soning, and the inhalation of oxygen assists this object. The feeding must be carried out with small doses of milk at short intervals, varied by beef extracts and assisted by rectal feeding. Washing out the stomach through the tube will sometimes arrest the vomiting. It will usually be found that the recovery of the patient, if he survives the shock, will depend upon the condition of the stomach, and if the vomiting is not troublesome and the stomach digestion is good he will probably recover. Gonorrhceal Peritonitis.—Peritonitis from gonorrheal infection begins in the pelvis, and is almost always a mixed infection. The infectious mate- rial finds access to the peritoneum by the Fallopian tubes, through the wall of the bladder, or through the lymphatic vessels of the spermatic cord. The lesions are usually limited to the pelvis, and the disease has a subacute course like pelvic peritonitis, ending in resolution or abscess. The usual treatment is effective, and if an abscess forms, it should be opened. Tubercular Peritonitis.—Tubercular peritonitis or tuberculosis of the peritoneum shows itself by the formation of adhesions and the production of a fibrinous exudate in the dry form. In the ascitic form large quantities of serum are thrown out, the peritoneum at the same time being thickened. The serous membrane of the parietes and of the various organs is found studded with tubercles, and large tuberculous masses form in the thick fibrinous exudate. These may break down and form abscesses, which may make their way externally or penetrate any of the hollow organs. The dis- ease is secondary to a lesion in some of the abdominal organs, and most fre- quently in the intestine, from two-thirds to three-quarters of the cases having this origin, while about one-quarter of them arise from the female genitals. This form of tuberculosis is most frequent in early adult life, but occurs at all ages. It is far more common in women than in men, but ap- parently the majority of the former recover from the disease, as it is more frequently found in men at post-mortem examinations. The symptoms of tuberculosis of the peritoneum are distention of the abdomen, emaciation, fever, ascites, and the formation of masses of exudate in the abdomen. The fever is of the hectic type, and it is not infrequent for a subnormal tempera- ture to last for days at a time in some cases. Palpation reveals great thick- ening and hardening of the abdominal wall, even when there is great dis- tention. The peritoneal exudate may be so limited as to form solid or cystic tumors, and the omentum is rolled up so as to make a band which can be felt stretching across the abdomen at the navel. Tumors may also be formed 59