462 COMPOUND FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. the splint in position by the turns of a roller bandage. (Fig. 370.) These fractures may also be treated by reducing the deformity, and, after apply- ing a roller and cotton padding to the elbow, fixing the arm in the extended or in the flexed position by a plaster of Paris bandage. In children, at the end of three weeks the union is usually sufficiently firm to allow the splints to be permanently removed, and at this time passive motion should be made by grasping the condyles of the humerus with one hand and flexing, extend- ing, supinating, and pronating the forearm with the other. In many of these cases, for some months after removal of the splints marked impair- ment of motion is present, which seems largely to be due to the deposition of callus either upon the anterior or the posterior surface of the condyles, interfering with the motions of extension and flexion of the forearm. If a case which presents very marked disability shortly after fracture be ex- amined some months later, it is surprising to find how the motion of the elbow has returned as the callus has been absorbed. A method of treating fractures of the condyles of the humerus which has recently attracted some attention both in this country and abroad con- sists in reducing the deformity under an anaesthetic and then placing the elbow in a position of acute flexion, maintaining this position by securing the arm and forearm together by broad straps of adhesive plaster applied as a double figure-of-eight; the arm is then supported in a sling from the neck or is secured to the body by the turns of a bandage. This dressing is applied for three or four weeks, and is then removed and the arm gradually extended. It is held that by this method of dressing better motion is ob- tained and the tendency to gunstock deformity is lessened. Compound Fractures of the Humerus.—Compound fractures of the humerus may involve any portion of the bone. In compound fractures of the head of the humerus, primary excision of the head of the bone offers the patient the best functional result. In compound fractures of the shaft of the humerus, after thoroughly sterilizing the wound, the treatment con- sists in securing primary fixation of the fragments by means of heavy silver wire or kangaroo tendon sutures, or by silver splints fixed to the fragments by means of screws, or by bone ferrules. The subsequent treatment consists in the use of drainage, closure of the wound, the application of an anti- septic gauze dressing, and the use of fixation dressings similar to those employed in cases of simple fractures of the humerus. In compound fractures involving the condyles of the humerus and the elbow-joint it is a question whether it is wise to attempt to obtain primary fixation of the fragments, as in spite of the greatest care in the treatment a certain amount of loss of function results. It is better in these cases to resort to partial excision of the elbow-joint—that is, the removal of frag- ments and excision of the end of the humerus—to give a good surface for articulation with the bones of the forearm, then to drain the wound, apply an antiseptic gauze dressing and splint for a few weeks, fixing the arm in the flexed or partly extended position, and after this time to encourage motion at the elbow to obtain a movable joint.