IRRIGATION. 196 and applied as required. A piece of yeast-cake or a few ounces of porter may be used as a substitute for yeast in preparing the fermenting poultice. Animal charcoal may be added to increase its disinfecting power. Oakum or Cotton Poultice.—This form of poultice is prepared by soaking a mass of loosely picked oakum or absorbent cotton in hot water, wringing it out, and covering it with a layer of cheese-cloth or antiseptic gauze. After applying it to the surface of the body it should be covered with oiled silk or rubber tissue. These materials may be wrung out of warm carbolic or bichloride solution, aud thus form an antiseptic poultice. Soap Poultice.—This is prepared by mixing one part of green soap with four parts of water; pads of gauze are then soaked in this mixture and applied to the part. Soap poultices thus made are often applied for some hours to a part as a preparatory step in its sterilization, and are especially useful where there is much thickening of the epidermis. Hot Fomentations.—Hot fomentations may be employed to combat inflammatory action, or to keep up the vitality of parts which have been subjected to severe injury. . They are applied by means of pads of gauze, old muslin, surgical lint, or flannel cloths, which are soaked in water having a temperature of 120° F. (40.5° C.) ; these are wrung out and placed upon the part and covered with waxed paper or rubber tissue; a second pad should be ready to apply as soon as the first begins to cool, and so by con- tinuously reapplying them the part is kept constantly covered with a hot, moist dressing. IRRIGATION. Irrigation may be accomplished by allowing the irrigating fluid to run over a wound or an inflamed part, or by permitting the cold or warm fluids to pass through rubber tubes which are in contact with or surround the part: the former method is known as direct or immediate irrigation, the latter as mediate irrigation. Direct Irrigation.—In employ- ing direct irrigation in the treatment of wounds or inflammatory condi- tions, a funnel-shaped can or glass jar with a stopcock at the bottom, or a rubber bag, is suspended over the part at a distance of a few inches (Fig. 134); the can or bag is filled with water, and this is allowed to fall drop by drop upon the part to be irrigated, which should be placed upon a piece of rubber sheeting so arranged as to permit the water to run off into a receptacle and pre- vent the wetting of the patient's bed. The water employed may be either cold or warm, according to the indications in special cases. If it is desirable to make use of antiseptic irrigation, the water is impregnated with carbolic Fig. 134. Direct irrigation. (Agnew.)