241 CONTRACTING CICATRIX. due not only to a loss of tissue from destruction by the burn or scald, but also to the contraction and cicatrization of the reparative material itself. The cicatrices following burns and scalds may also assume a keloid character ; this change is more common in children than in adults. The contraction Fig. 166. Fin. 167. Cicatrix following burn of abdomen and thighs. The same case after a plastic operation. Fig following burns or scalds of the face may cause ankylosis of the jaw; those of the anterior part of the neck and chest may cause the chin to be drawn down to the sternum, or lateral distortion of the neck may take place ; the joints may be immovably flexed, or the arm may be bound down to the chest so that it is practically useless, or the mouth, eyelids, or ears may be distorted. The contraction of the tissues following a burn of the abdomen and upper part of the thighs in a girl of ten years, in whom a hood was formed in front of the external genitals, is shown in Fig. 166 ; the condition of this patient after operation is shown in Fig. 167. The deformity following burns of the extremities often seriously inter- feres with the function of the joints. The de- formity of the hand following a burn of the hand and wrist is well shown in Fig. 168. Treatment.—The use of splints and exten- sion in the treatment of burns where contraction is liable to occur before the wounds have healed has been previously mentioned, and the same appliances should be made use of in the case of recently healed burns with contracted cica- trices, for while the scar-tissue is soft and pli- able it is often possible to diminish the amount of contraction. If, however, the skin and con- nective tissue have been destroyed, it is gen- erally impossible to correct the deformity except by a plastic operation. In operations upon contracted cicatrices it is sometimes necessary to use a part of the scar-tissue, and therefore it is well not to operate until con- 16 Contraction of hand from bum. (Agnew.)