ASPIRATION. 199 platinum sponge to become incandescent when exposed to the action of vapor of benzene or rhigolene. This form of cautery may be used at a white heat or at a dull red heat: its great advantage consists in the ease with which it can be prepared for use. (Fig. 136.) This instrument may be used to produce counter-irritation, as well as in operations upon vascular tumors Fig. 136. Paquelin's thermocautery. where the use of a knife would be accompanied by profuse hemorrhage, or for controlling hemorrhage in cases where the ligature cannot be satis- factorily employed. Wounds made by the actual cautery are aseptic wounds, and when dusted with iodoform they generally heal promptly under the scab without suppuration. Galvano-Cautery.—This form of cautery is often employed for the same purpose as the actual cautery, but is more convenient for application in the various cavities of the body, as the electrodes, which are made of various shapes and sizes, can be introduced into the cavities while cold and quickly heated to a red or white heat. It is frequently employed for the destruction of morbid growths in the nasal passages, the throat, the vagina, or the uterus, and its employment in these cases may be rendered practically painless by previously thoroughly cocainizing the parts. ASPIRATION. This procedure is adopted to remove fluids from a closed cavity without the admission of air, and the instrument employed is known as an aspirator. Potain's aspirator (Fig. 137) is the one most convenient for use. In using this aspirator the bottle is exhausted of air by using an air-pump ; the canula enclosing the trocar is next pushed through the tissues into the cavity con- taining the fluid to be removed ; the trocar is withdrawn, and upon opening the stopcock, fluid is forced out of the cavity by atmospheric pressure and passes into the bottle or receiver. Great care should be exercised that the trocar and canula are thoroughly sterilized before being used, by being placed