779 ABSCESSES <)E THE NECK. Treatment.—A wound of this character which presents any serious symptoms should be enlarged and explored, to enable the surgeon to dis- cover the nature of the injury and apply the proper remedy. If possible, the divided nerves should be sutured, and the thoracic duct likewise. Gunshot wounds produce similar injuries, together with contusion and laceration of the parts, and they are very frequently fatal on account of in- jury of the great vessels. In stab wounds and gunshot injuries secondary hemorrhage is frequent. Extensive wounds may divide the brachial or the cervical plexus, producing paralysis. The nerves are to be sutured imme- diately in such cases, with due care to unite the corresponding ends. Inflammations.—The superficial inflammations of the neck do not differ from those of other parts. Carbuncle is very frequently found on the back of the neck, and boils are exceedingly common. Cellulitis is quite frequent, and is very liable to interfere with respiration by direct pressure or by causing oedema of the larynx. The infectious process may also extend down into the mediastinum and cause fatal complications. It very often takes its origin in a lymph-gland, which forms an abscess and in- fects the cellular tissue around it. In the form of cellulitis known as Lud- wig's angina, which is found in the floor of the mouth, the cellular tissue between the mucous membrane and the mylo-hyoid muscle becomes acutely inflamed, generally as a consequence of infection of the lymph-node over the submaxillary gland. This inflammation tends to sloughing rather than to the formation of pus, and requires very free and early incisions, because it often produces oedema of the larynx, and may result in death. The tongue is lifted up against the roof of the mouth, the mouth cannot be opened fully, and the patient can scarcely swallow or breathe. Treatment.—The best incision for cellulitis of the floor of the mouth is one passing downward from the chin near the middle line to the hyoid bone, then curving upward towards the angle of the jaw. A semilunar flap is formed and the submaxillary gland exposed, which is pushed aside and the mylo-hyoid perforated with a blunt instrument, such as an artery for- ceps. If no abscess is found, but merely a dense general oedema of the parts, the tissues should be broken down in all directions by the finger, one finger of the other hand being placed in the mouth, and the two being brought together until only the mucous membrane remains between them, in order to make sure that every part of the diseased tissue has been reached. The process is frequently bilateral, and the finger can be easily pushed across the median muscles to the other side, which should also be drained by a small incision. When an anaesthetic is given in these cases preparations are to be made for tracheotomy, for these patients bear an anaesthetic very badly, as even when conscious they can hardly swallow or eject mucus or saliva from the back of the mouth. This form of cellulitis can sometimes be aborted by very early operation, the affected area being exposed by proper incisions, and the peculiar waxy indurated tissues being broken down with a blunt instrument or with the finger. Occasionally only a few drops of pus are found at the centre of this induration. Abscesses.—Abscesses in the neck are most likely to form in the follow- ing lymphatic or cellular spaces : (1) between the larynx and trachea and