1042 TERTIARY SYPHILIS. manent. It may be due to lowering of the general tone of the system by the syphilitic virus, the nutrition of the hair-follicles being affected pari passu (as happens also in fevers), or to a localization of the eruption on the scalp, causing a partial baldness. Deep ulcerating tertiary lesions of the scalp cause permanent baldness. With the development of the secondary stage there occurs a general- ized glandular enlargement of the painless sluggish type observed in the primary bubo. Glandular enlargement is of much value from a diagnostic stand-point, the glands most easily examined being the post- cervical group, the axillary, and the epitrochlear gland lying just above the internal condyle of the humerus. The enlargement of the glands appears a little before the eruption, and disappears to a certain extent with the other active symptoms, but in many cases induration persists for a long time. Analgesia, localized and general, is found in early secondary syphilis, being especially common in females. Pain in the bones, especially at night, and also provoked by pressure, and perhaps accompanied by nodular swellings, may be observed in the secondary stage. General rheumatoid pains are complained of at night. Other secondary symptoms are jaundice, occurring without structural hepatic changes, and nephritis, which, while less common than in the tertiary stage, may be manifested by albuminuria and dropsy, often responding promptly to antisyphilitic treatment. Iritis is the most frequent eye-lesion in the secondary stage. Choroiditis and retinitis occur much less frequently. Conjunctivitis is sometimes present, and rarely keratitis, which is a very frequent symptom in the inherited disease. In addition to the above symptoms, there is a condition of syphilitic cachexia, in which the general vitality of the individual is reduced, and he becomes thin, pale, and weak. An examination of the blood shows, even in the period of secondary incubation, a decrease in the amount of haemo- globin and in the number of red blood-cells, with a marked increase in the number of white cells. This becomes more marked before aud during the eruptive period. Under the judicious use of mercury this anaemia disap- pears. Tertiary anaemia may develop, but is not proportionately so frequent. Secondary syphilis lasts from one to three years. Tertiary syphilis may develop at the end of a year, or may be deferred for ten or fifteen years. In the large majority of well-treated cases the disease is cured in the secondary stage. Tertiary syphilis is irregular both in its onset and in its progress. It comes on generally in the third or fourth year. The lesions are chronic and sluggish. The surface lesions are unsymmetrical and irregular, and involve the whole thickness of the skin and mucous membrane, as well as the sub- cutaneous and submucous tissues. Internally there are gummata in the various organs, vascular changes, and sclerosis in the nervous system and elsewhere. The skin, nervous system, bones, mucous membranes, and vis- cera are attacked in about this order of frequency. The lesions are gener- ally non-contagious. The characteristic affections of the skin are the tubercle and the gumma. The tubercle is a circumscribed, nodular infil-