EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. 638 Incision for ex- cision of the elbow-joint. subsequently fastened to the side of the body to secure fixation of the parts, or a plaster of Paris dressing may be applied. Excision of the Elbow-Joint.—This operation may be required in cases of compound or gunshot fractures or tuberculous disease of this joint, and is occasionally employed to relieve the deformity and loss Fig. 560. °* function following unreduced dislocations or bony ankylosis of this articulation. Operation.—In excising the elbow-joint, the forearm should be slightly flexed ; a longitudinal incision is made from about two inches above the olecranon process a little to its inner side, and carried three or four inches downward in the line of the ulna (Fig. 560) ; the tissues should then be divided down to the bone, and the ulnar nerve dissected from its groove behind the inner condyle of the humerus and held aside by a retractor. The tendon of the triceps muscle is next divided, and its at- tachment to the fascia and periosteum, over the olecranon process, is separated with an elevator or a periosteotome and turned downward, the capsule of the joint being opened and the lateral ligaments divided as the forearm is flexed upon the arm. The upper part of the ulna and the head of the radius are freed with a probe-pointed knife, and removed with a narrow-bladed saw, care being taken in making the section of the radius to divide its neck so that the attachment of the biceps muscle shall not be interfered with. The condyles of the humerus should next be freed and removed with a saw. In exposing the bones at the anterior portion of the joint, great care should be used to avoid injury of the brachial artery and vein and the median nerve. In excision of the elbow-joint for disease, the amount of bone to be removed depends largely upon the extent of the disease; the rule, how- ever, is to remove the diseased bone freely, as better functional results occur after free removal than in cases where the bone has been removed sparingly. In excision for ankylosis, or for the deformity following unre- duced dislocations, and in compound fractures of the elbow-joint, the same rule applies as regards the free removal of the ends of the bones. After a sufficient amount of bone has been removed and hemorrhage has been arrested, the upper end of the divided tendon of the triceps should be fastened to the lower end or to its fascial expansion by a few sutures of chro- micized catgut. A drainage-tube should be introduced, and the edges of the wound brought together with sutures. After applying a gauze dressing, a well-padded anterior angular splint should be placed upon the arm and forearm, with a moulded pasteboard gutter covering in the posterior surface of the elbow, and the splints held in place by a roller bandage. The plaster of Paris dressing may also be employed in these cases in place of the splints previously mentioned. If the wound runs an aseptic course it need not be dressed for a week or ten days, at which time the drainage-tube should be removed as well as the sutures, and the arm fixed in the same position for another week or ten days. As soon as the wound is firmly healed the splints should be removed, a light gauze dressing applied over