1038 CHAPTER XXXVI. VENEREAL DISEASES. SYPHILIS. Syphilis is a constitutional disease, chronic in type, attended by lesions the nature of which includes it in the class of infectious granulomata with leprosy and tuberculosis. It may be hereditary or acquired, and is propa- gated by contagion, the virus being present in the secretion of the initial lesion, the blood, and the secretions of the lesions of the secondary and the active stage of the hereditary form of the disease. The lesions of the ter- tiary stage are probably not contagious, nor are the normal secretions, as the milk, tears, etc., unless contaminated by the blood or by the discharge from a syphilitic lesion. In the acquired form of the disease the method of con- tagion may be immediate—that is, by direct contact between the infected and infecting parties, as in sexual intercourse ; or mediate, where the poison is carried by something acting as a vehicle of contagion. The latter method is by no means uncommon, through the use of table utensils, pipes, glass- blowers' implements, drinking-vessels, etc. Formerly syphilis was some- times transmitted by vaccination with humanized virus, by the admixture of blood with the lymph from the arm of a syphilitic child. Etiology.—The nature of the infection has not yet been discovered. All the symptoms of syphilis point to its being of bacterial origin, and a bacillus has been described by Lustgarten, but no germ has yet been proved to be the cause of the disease. After the entrance of the poison into the system there elapses a space of time, the "primary period of incubation," during which there are no local or general symptoms. This period has an average length of three weeks, although chancre has developed as early as seven days and as late as ten weeks after inoculation. At the end of this time the local sore appears. Syphilis is divided into three stages, the primary, the secondary, and the tertiary; Chancre, or Initial Lesion.—The acquired form of syphilis is inva- riably ushered in by an initial lesion at the site of the infection. There is one alleged exception—that is, where a mother is supposed to acquire the disease from a syphilitic foetus in utero, without previous inoculation from the father, such infection being proved by the subsequent appearance of constitutional symptoms ; but in these cases there is always the possibility that the chancre has been present and overlooked. The chancre ushers in the primary stage, is always situated at the spot where the virus gains admission to the body, and, as the most common means of communication is by sexual intercourse, it is in the large majority of cases found on the genitalia. As remarked above, however, syphilis is