725 OSTEOPLASTIC RESECTION OF THE SKULL. so as to avoid injury to the dura while dividing the remaining bone. The central portion of bone, known as the button, is to be removed by prying it out of place. In operating with the ordinary trephine for tumors or abscesses, which require large openings in the skull, a crown one and a half or two inches in diameter is used, and the opening may be enlarged by the rongeur or chisel. Depressed Bone.—In cases of compound fracture a wound is already present, and it is only necessary to enlarge it in the most suitable directions to make a flap. Loose fragments are easily raised, and impacted fragments may be released by cutting away the bone with the chisel or rongeur. If the impaction is very great the trephine should be applied with a-part of its circle projecting over the edge of the fractured bone. When a depressed fracture exists, without any external wound, a flap must be cut so as to expose the point of fracture. As a rule, in operations upon the skull flaps are made of a horseshoe or rectangular shape, with the base below. The pericranium is stripped from the bone with the flap. Osteoplastic Flap.—The osteoplastic method of Wagner-Wolff is per- formed as follows. A horseshoe-shaped incision is made, and the edges are allowed to retract. A groove is then cut in the bone following the line to which the skin of the flap has retracted. (Fig. 648.) This groove may flap shall rest on the inner table of the skull when the bone-flap is turned back into place. The bone is then cut partly through under the base of the flap as far as possible with the chisel without disturbing the soft parts any more than is necessary, and the remaining bone at the base is broken and the flap turned back, the scalp acting as a hinge. (Fig. 649.) By this method the gap made in the skull can be closed after the operation. Hemorrhage from the Bone.—Hemorrhage from the veins of the diploe can be controlled by pressure, by breaking in the bone around the opening with a blunt-pointed instrument, by stuffing a little catgut into the Fig. 648. be cut with a chisel or with a circular saw run by an electro-motor, and should be oblique, so that the outer table of the Osteoplastic resection of the skull: cutting the bone-flap with a chisel. (After Treves.) Osteoplastic resection of the skull: flap turned down, exposing dura mater. (After Treves.)