57 897 CHAPTER XXXIII. SURGERY OP THE BREAST. ANOMALIES AND MALFORMATIONS. Anomalies of the breast are of very frequent occurrence, the most common being the presence of supernumerary breasts, or polymazia. Ab- sence of the breast, or amazia, is a very rare condition. Supernumerary breasts are usually found in the line of the mammary and epigastric arte- ries, extending down on the abdomen, often symmetrically, from two to four extra breasts being present. They are occasionally found in men. It is not infrequent for supernumerary breasts to occur in the axillary line just under the fold of the pectoral is major or high up in the axilla. The supernu- merary breasts are generally provided with some sort of nipple. They vary in size, some being merely a little deposit of gland-tissue in the skin, while others are well developed. The nipple may be absent even when the breast is of good size, and in the case of axillary mamma? without a nipple a con- nection sufficient to allow the escape of secretion has sometimes been found between the supernumerary and the normal gland. Except for the possi- bility that tumors may develop in them, supernumerary breasts are of very little significance. Occasionally they are congested during lactation, and, especially if there is no nipple, the distention may be very painful. The nipple of the normal breast also presents anomalies, being some- times multiple and very rarely entirely absent. It is very frequently so badly developed that it is of little use for nursing, and a plastic operation has been suggested, consisting in the excision of elliptical pieces of skin on three or four sides, the long axis of the ellipses being on lines radiating from the nipple, and the widest part corresponding with the base of the nipple. The edges of the wounds are approximated by sutures, and a buried suture, introduced subcutaneous!y so as to cross the widest part of every ellipse and entirely surround the nipple, is tied loosely so as to gather in the skin at the proper place for the base of the nipple. Hypertrophy.—Atrophy of the breast is a very common condition, but is of no clinical significance. Hypertrophy, however, produces very large tumors, which may be a great burden. (Fig. 759.) The structure of the gland appears to be exactly like that of the normal breast, with the excep- tion that in some cases there is a marked increase of the fibrous stroma, but there is very little or no milk-producing power. The hypertrophy may be limited to one breast, but both are generally involved. It most commonly begins about puberty or dur ing pregnancy, and the breast may attain an enormous size, reaching to the groin and weighing as much as sixty pounds.