TUBERCULAR OSTEOMYELITIS. 524 deposit of tubercle causes a rarefying ostitis by enlargement of the Haver- sian canals, thickening of the periosteum, and the development of granula- tion-tissue, which shows the structure of tuberculous disease ; caseation or liquefaction may occur, and a tubercular abscess may result. According to the changes which occur in the inflamed bone we have resulting caries fungosa, which is characterized by an excessive production of granulation- tissue ; caries sicca, in which there may be extensive destruction and absorp- tion of bone, from pressure of contiguous parts, without the production of abscess ; or caries necrotica, in which a portion of bone surrounded by rare- fying ostitis and tubercular infiltration may have its vitality so completely destroyed that it dies, giving rise to a small sequestrum. The treatment of caries of bone is similar to that of tuberculosis of bone. Pathology.—Tuberculous infection usually attacks the cancellous struc- ture of bone, and is therefore very common in the carpus, the tarsus, the bodies of the vertebrae, and the articular extremities of the long bones. It rarely is developed in the medullary cavity of the long bones, but occa- sionally involves the bones in the region of the epiphyseal lines. The first change is a rarefying ostitis froni enlargement of the Haversian canals ; the periosteum becomes thickened, and infected granulation-tissue forms more or less rapidly. The tuberculous deposits are surrounded by areas of in- flammation, and a portion of the bone, being cut off from its nutrition, may undergo molecular death, or a mass of bone may lose its vitality, giving rise to a tuberculous sequestrum. Caseation and liquefaction of the tuberculous material may take place, producing a tuberculous abscess, composed of degenerated cells, with curdy, cheesy material, and bone de- tritus ; this fluid, which has the appearance of pus, is really not such, un- less a mixed infection has occurred through the introduction into the cavity of pyogenic organisms from the circulation, or by infection of the cavity from without. The tuberculous process may extend so as to open an ad- jacent joint, or may open upon the skin ; in either event a sinus is left which is lined with tuberculous granulations. When tuberculous abscesses of bone have opened spontaneously upon the surface, their infection by pyogenic organisms is very common. Examination of the bone through the sinus with a probe will usually reveal softened or carious bone, and in some cases roughened bone may be felt, or a sequestrum. On the other hand, circumscribed areas of tuberculous deposits may be shut off by healthy granulations in the surrounding bone, absorption or calcification of the broken-down tissue occur, and the bone surrounding the diseased structures become sclerosed. Symptoms.—Tuberculous disease of bone is often difficult to recog- nize early, and its progress is generally very slow. The most marked symptoms are pain, which may be spontaneous or be elicited only by pressure over the diseased area, and enlargement of the bone or of the soft parts over it, causing swelling, which can best be observed in exposed situations, as the extremities of the long bones. Loss of function and atro- phy of the muscles are common symptoms, largely due to non-use of the part. As caseation of the tuberculous tissue advances and the material escapes from the bone, the soft parts over the diseased area become cede-