PNEUMONOTOMY. 885 at some point of the chest-wall and have resulted in a thoracic fistula, also in cases in which the lung is so bound down by adhesions that incision and drainage have failed to bring about a cure. Operation.—An oval flap six inches in length and four inches in breadth, with its base near the mid-axillary line, is dissected up from the chest so as to expose three or four ribs, or an incision six inches in length may be made over the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs in the mid- axillary line, and two rectangular flaps may be dissected up, one back- ward and one forward, from this incision, so as to expose from four to six inches of two or three contiguous ribs. The ribs are next divided at the extremities of these incisions with a narrow saw or bone pliers, and removed. Hemorrhage from the intercostal arteries is not usually troublesome, but if they bleed they can be secured by ligatures. The costal pleura should next be freely opened to the length of the incision, making an opening in the chest as large as the removal of bone will permit. The number and extent of the ribs to be excised will depend upon the size of the cavity exposed. The exposed cavity should be irrigated with sterilized water, the surfaces of the costal and the pulmonary pleura curetted, and a few strips of gauze loosely packed into the cavity. The flaps should then be laid over the cavity, but need not be secured by sutures. A large sterilized or anti- septic gauze dressing should be applied and held in place by a bandage. As Fig. 753. healing progresses, the soft parts are drawn inward and become attached to the pulmonary pleura, and the cavity is obliterated. Schede, in cases of thoracic fistula in which there is great thickening of the pleura, recommends a still more radical operation, which consists in exposing and excising a large portion of the chest-wall over the cavity. In this operation an incision is made, and a large oval flap of skin and muscles is dissected up, ex- posing a number of ribs ; the chest-wall over the cavity, composed of the ex- posed ribs, intercostal muscles, and costal pleura, is then cut away with strong bone shears, and, after curetting and washing out the cavity, the skin-flap is applied to the pulmonary pleura. This operation is attended with con- siderable danger from shock and hemorrhage, and produces great deformity of the chest at the seat of operation : it should therefore be employed only when a less heroic procedure has failed to bring about a cure. (Fig. 753.) OPERATIONS UPON THE LUNGS. Pneumonotomy.—This operation, which consists in making an in- cision into the tissue of the lung, may be employed for the drainage of abscesses or cysts, in the treatment of gangrene of the lung, for the removal Result of Schede's operation on right side of chest.