1111 CYSTOSCOPY. and Southern Africa, becomes lodged in the renal vessels and discharges its eggs into the kidney, whence they make their way downward into the blad- der and cause irritation of that organ and patches of indurated granulations resembling sarcoma, which bleed very freely. The symptoms resemble those of cystitis or tumor. This condition is exceedingly difficult to distinguish from a tumor of the bladder, although the eggs may be found in the urine; but the disease is very rare in this country, being found only in those who have lived where it is endemic. The use of the cystoscope will, as a rule, enable the surgeon to determine not only the presence of a tumor, but its size, and this examination should never be omitted, although it is unsatis- factory if there is much bleeding. In cases of doubt an exploratory incision should be made through the perineum or above the pubes. The introduc- tion of the suprapubic method has thrown the perineal incision into dis- credit, for it is only with a very long finger that the tumors cau be reached, and the operator necessarily works in the dark. Prognosis.—The prognosis of tumors of the bladder is bad, as even the benign growths cause death by the severe hemorrhage, although they may have a very slow course. The hematuria and necessary instru- mentation are likely to result in cystitis and pyelitis. Malignant tumors produce death in from eighteen mouths to three years after the first symptoms. The papillomata can be cured by operation, but not the malignant tumors, because the diagnosis of the latter can seldom be made sufficiently early. Treatment.—Operation is the only possible treatment for these tumors, and suprapubic cystotomy is the best method of reaching them. The patient should be prepared for operation as usual, the rectal balloon inserted and the bladder distended and opened by the suprapubic incision. The tumor can then be thoroughly examined with the finger and the eye, and removed at once if removal is possible. Papillomatous growths may be removed and the base thoroughly destroyed with the curette, thermo- cautery, or curved scissors. Other tumors may be excised, provided that they are not so extensive as to render all attempts at a radical cure hopeless. Large portions of the wall of the bladder have been successfully removed. When the tumor cannot be removed, the wound should be left open for drainage, and the patient's sufferings are greatly relieved by this treatment, although it involves some danger of infection resulting in cystitis or pyelitis. Hemorrhage from the interior of the bladder can be controlled by a gauze tampon, but the pressure of the gauze, and especially its removal, is apt to be painful, and packing should be avoided if possible. In any case the bladder should be drained through the wound, the urethra, or a small perineal incision made for the purpose. Cystoscopy.—Cystoscopy is the examination of the bladder with the eye by instruments introduced through the urethra. It is most easily accomplished in the female by means of Kelly's method. This consists in dilatation of the urethra to a diameter of twelve to fifteen millimetres and the introduction of short cylindrical specula, the patient being placed in the lithotomy position with extreme elevation of the pelvis. The contents of the abdomen then fall away from the pelvis and air enters the bladder