TUMORS OF THE LIVER. 932 Treatment.—Single abscesses can be treated, successfully by operation, but the multiple abscesses are incurable. The abscess may be drained by a large trocar puncture or by free incision. The situation of the pus in the liver is determined by capillary puncture with a fine needle, and when the pus has been found the needle should be left in place and cut down upon at once, in order to avoid the leakage of pus into the peritoneal or the pleural cavity. It may be necessary to pass through the pleural cavity as well as the peritoneum to reach some of these abscesses. When the peritoneal cavity only is to be opened, the incision is made through the abdominal wall, the peritoneum is stitched to the surface of the liver by a complete circle of sutures, and the liver is incised in the centre of this ring. The pus may lie at a depth of two or three inches, and it is best to use the thermo-cautery in making this incision, in order to lessen the hemorrhage. Incisions above the line of the diaphragm may invade the pleura. In this case a portion of one or two ribs is resected, the visceral pleura is stitched down to the diaphragm by a circle of sutures, and the diaphragm is then incised. If the peritoneal cavity is free between the diaphragm and the liver, this is also protected by a circle of sutures before the liver is incised. If haste is not necessary, the liver may be exposed in the wound and the latter packed with gauze for twenty-four hours in order to allow adhesions to form. The after-treatment consists in irrigation of the cavity, and the use of tonics and stimulants. The abscess-cavities are very slow in contracting. Tumors of the Liver.—It is seldom that tumors of the liver are primary or are recognized early enough to allow of surgical treatment. Keen has collected twenty cases of partial resection of the liver for tumors, however, with a mortality of only ten per cent. ; but the majority of the growths were pedunculated or occupied small pedunculated lobes. Hydatid Cyst of the Liver is not infrequent, although rare in America. It is formed like hydatids elsewhere, by the implantation of a parasite, which grows into a cyst and forms secondary daughter-cysts. Symptoms are gen- erally absent, on account of its slow growth, until it has attained consider- able size. It is said, however, that bile-pigment is very early and constantly found in the urine of these cases, even when the cyst is pedunculated. At- tacks of urticaria are also seen. Suppuration of the hydatid causes inflam- matory symptoms like those of abscess. Late in the disease hemorrhages take place from the mucous membranes of various organs, and intermittent albuminuria, is found. The main symptom, however, is the distention of the liver by the cyst, the organ reaching the navel or the pelvis and forming one or more smooth rounded tumors. Vomiting and cough are frequently caused by the pressure on the vagus, and a caput Medusas or circle of distended veins forms about the umbilicus. Jaundice is a rare symptom. The tumor may rupture in various directions. If it bursts into the pleura it causes pain in the side and asphyxia, empyema develops, and the pus may per- forate the lung ultimately. The lung may be involved directly when it is adherent to the diaphragm before perforation occurs, a pneumonia devel- oping and the contents of the cyst being coughed up when rupture takes place. Eupture into the pericardium is followed by instant death. Eupture into the peritoneum causes sharp pain, followed by peritonitis. In some