SPLENECTOMY. 968 gives rise to vague feelings of abdominal distress, or the tumor may be dis- covered accidentally. The pedicle may become twisted, and then the organ becomes swollen and painful, and gangrene may follow. A wandering spleen may be fixed by a large pad and bandage, but this is seldom very effective. Recently attempts have been made to secure the organ in place by the operation of splenopexy. This may be done by opening' the ab- domen, dissecting up a fiap from the parietal peritoneum in the left hypo- chondrium, and securing it across the spleen to form a pocket to hold the organ. The operation appears to be without danger and to give good results. The displaced spleen has frequently been removed with success. Suppurative inflammation of the spleen resulting in abscess is usually of metastatic origin. There may be a single abscess or multiple small foci. The abscesses may open spontaneously into the bowel or exter- nally, but the drainage is incomplete, and unless an operation is done the patient usually dies of pyaemia. Tumors.—The spleen may be enlarged by congestion in any condition which obstructs the portal circulation. It is liable to hypertrophy in malarial fever, in leukaemia, and also from unknown cases. In chronic enlargement the organ usually becomes fibrous. Neoplasms and cysts of the spleen are rare, even sarcoma being uncommon. They give rise to few symptoms except those caused by their mechanical effects when of large size. Splenectomy.—The spleen may be removed without danger of disturb- ing the health, its functions being apparently perfectly supplied by the other lymphatic glands. The most favorable results in splenectomy are obtained in cases of injury, especially when the spleen is prolapsed through an ab- dominal wound. In operations for hypertrophy of the spleen and for sar- coma about one-third of the cases die. Secondary enlargement from disease of the liver should not be operated upon. Nor should the leukaemic spleen be removed, as it has been found that the mortality in these cases is very high, and the disease of the blood is incurable. Malarial hypertrophy of the spleen usually subsides under medical treatment, but splenectomy may be necessary when the tumors are large and of long standing. The spleen when broken down and sloughing in an abscess-sac has also been removed successfully. When the organ is large, adhesions may form between it and the diaphragm and add greatly to the difficulty of removal. Splenectomy is done by an anterior laparotomy, usually requiring a very large incision on account of the huge size of the organ. The spleen is drawn out of the wound, and a ligature is passed through the pedicle, a very blunt ligature- passer being used on account of the friable nature of the thin-walled splenic vein. The tumor is then cut away, leaving a large stump of the pedicle to prevent the ligature from slipping, and the wound is closed. The chief dangers of the operation are hemorrhage and shock, and secondary or inter- mediate hemorrhage from the pedicle is not uncommon. THE DIAGNOSIS OF ABDOMINAL TUMORS. Physical Signs.—Inspection will often reveal at once the presence of tumor. When there is ascites and the patient lies on the back, the belly