1046 TREATMENT OF SYPHILIS. protiodide is a favorite preparation, and is that preferred by Keyes in what he calls his tonic treatment of syphilis, which consists in starting with a small dose (one-sixth of a grain of the protiodide) three times a day, and gradually increasing the quantity until tenderness of the teeth and gums, or diarrhoea, shows that a marked constitutional effect is produced. The quan- tity necessary to do this is called the full dose; the half of this is the tonic dose, and is to be administered steadily for many months; the difference between it and the full dose is called the reserve dose, and is added to the regular quantity when indicated by a fresh outbreak of syphilitic lesions. Keyes asserts that under this method of administering mercury the number of red blood-corpuscles is increased, the general health improved, and the disease often cured in the secondary stage. Other writers consider such a course entirely too mild, and are guided in their dose by the effect produced on the rash and other symptoms, increasing the quantity until its effect is shown by the disappearance of the eruption and glandular enlargements, and the improvement in the patient's general health, keeping the quantity below the point necessary to salivate or cause gastro enteric symptoms. The combination of opium with the mercury will often enable the patient to increase his dose beyond that otherwise possible. When the necessity of vigorously attacking syphilitic lesions demands it, inunctions are a very efficacious means of treatment, and may be used as a routine or in combina- tion with internal treatment, when it is desired rapidly to impress the sys- tem or to attack a generalized eruption. It is often a useful plan to institute a short course of inunctions after several months of internal medication. Mercurial ointment is the best preparation, from 3ss to ,^i being rubbed in daily in different parts of the body in succession, in combination with hot baths, to favor absorption. The great inconveniences of the method are its dirtiness and the difficulty in following it out with secrecy at the patient's home. Fumigation is practised by introducing the fumes of mercury, ob- tained by heating calomel or cinnabar over a lanip, mixed with steam, under a frame covered with blankets, or other device, in which the pa- tient, stripped of his clothing, is seated, his head remaining outside. After an exposure of twenty or thirty minutes to the fumes, the patient either goes to bed or wraps up, to avoid rapid cooling of the surface, at the same time avoiding rubbing off the coating of mercury deposited on the skin. This method is useful as an adjunct to other modes of treatment, and will often hasten the disappearance of an obstinate or generalized rash. Hypodermic injections of calomel, gray oil, yellow oxide of mercury, corrosive sublimate, and other preparations of mercury have within the last few years attained much popularity in the treatment of syphilis, and ex- travagant claims have been made as to the ease and rapidity of cure by this method. The injections are made into the subcutaneous tissue, and even the muscles, the back and buttocks being favorite sites, but, while often effective, are painful, and, especially when using the insoluble preparations, as calomel, are liable to be followed by abscesses at the sites of the injections. When a rapid effect is necessary, as in syphilis of the brain, spinal cord, and eye, and when the stomach is rebellious, and other means, as inunctions