222 GERISIAN NATIONAL COOKERY. the sweet-bread in two or three waters, chop it fine and mix it with the other mince, seasoning with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, with two beaten eggs, the yolks of four others, and a teacup- ful of milk; stir this untU warm, then put in the mince, the sardines cleared of skin and hone, capers, and cuttings of the truffles. Stir altogether till the meat appears cooked and has the usual thickness of forcemeat, then set it to cool. Form a raised water crust (recipe No. 1) of the usual height and thickness. Grate some good Swiss cheese and mix it with cream, thin enough to spread all over the inside of the crust. Now spread in half of the forcemeat. Lay the livers on this. Warm the braize, take ofl' some of its fat, strain the braize over the liver, spread over the other half of the forcemeat, and cover this with thin rashers of bacon. Put on the lid and close the edges well. Cut off any paste that is too high ; make a hole in the middle ; ornament the top and sides with any little devices cut out of very thin paste ; brush it over with egg, and hake it in a well-heated oven, taking care that the crust does not brown. When coloured a rich yellow, set it back in a cooler part of the oven for a quarter of an hour to finish baking. Before serving this, or either of the goose-Hver pasties, the lid may be cut round near the edge, and carefully taken off without breaking, the bacon and fat removed, the lid re- placed, and through the hole in the middle some good well- seasoned gi’avy poured, which should become a jelly when cold. 802. Gdnselehcr Pastete”— Strasbourg Pate. (No. 2.) Have from the poulterer’s half-a-dozen whole goose livers. See that there are no yellow spots to cut away from where the gall-bags were. Lay them in milk to whiten. Prepare and cut some truffles into little strips the size of a lead pencil, point them, and stick them through half of the livers, an inch apart. JSpriukle them with salt and pepper, grate very little nutmeg over, and set them aside. Mince fine two pounds of fresh bacon, half a pound of truflles peeled, the other half of the livers, two or three shalots, and a good handful of mushrooms, all raw. Season with ample salt and pepper, a pinch of powdered cloves, and as much powdered and sifted marjoram as will lie on a shilling. These must be