GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. io6 size of an egg ; form them square and smooth ; dip them in egg and grated bread ; mark them crossbarred with the hack of a knife, and fry or hake them a nice brown. If they are made of hard or tough meat, lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth or water at the bottom, and steam them until tender. Serve with a savoury gravy, and any kind of vegetable. 400. “ Kalbsbraten Wurfeln niit Rosinen”—Veal Mince with Currants. Cut roast veal into small dice. Melt butter in a stew-pan, brown some bread-crumbs or flour in it, add gravy or broth, a glass of white wine, some lemon-peel, salt, and a cup of well-washed cm'rants. When the latter are simmered soft, put the veal in the sauce, to get thoroughly hot, but not to boil. 401. “ Eingemachtes Kalbfleisch”—Stewed Veal. A delicate dish. Breast of veal is the best. Wash it in cold water. Beat it well, and divide it between each hone into narrow pieces. Put it in a stew-pan with a large cup of water and some flour and butter, mixed as if for thickening, an onion with six cloves stuck in it, some chopped parsley, a ha^'-leaf or a few juniper-berries, a couple of slices of lemon, a glass of white wine, a grate of nutmeg, and some salt. Enough water or broth and flour should be added to make plenty of creamy sauce, which must be strained when done. 402. “ Kalbskopf”—Calf's Head. Blanch the head by laying it in lukewarm water. Boil it tender in salted water. Brown it with butter in a casserole. Dish it laid open in halves, with the tongue halved and laid on each side. Sauce as per Index. 403. “ Kalbskopf Gcbraten ”— Calf’s Head Baked. Boil the head tender as above, cut ofi“ the meat in neat slices, lay them in a dish with butter, and strew salt between ; mix half a pint of sour cream, or milk, with the yolks of four eggs, and a grate of nutmeg. Grate Parmesan or green cheese over, and bake it in a quick oven. Or: Having boiled the head, lay it open, spread butter over, give it a coating of grated cheese, and colour it in the oven.