400 Appendix. without tact. It was under the Empire that I was most em- ployed ; it was, above all, at this era that my studies were severe; “ c’est surtout a cette epoque que j’ai fait des fortes etudes.” My researches were made in good time; they were continuous ; they were serious. At M. de Talleyrand’s I was under Eoucher, chef des services of the prince. I there per- fected myself in one of the principal parts of cookery, which I afterwards developed. Some years previously I had executed many parts of the beaux extras. A little later I had the manage- ment of the charming little dinners given by a distinguished and lofty-minded man, M. de Lavalette. I also cooked the dinners and arranged the sideboard of the Saxon Ambassador. It is from that period that the first decided thought of the “ Patissier Iloyal ” and of the “ Cuisinier Parisien,” first entered my mind. I now acquired the excellent habit of noting down in the evening, on returning home, the modifications that I had made in my labour, each day bringing some change. With pen in hand, I set down the reasons which had determined my mind. That which then particlarly occupied me was the finer parts of the oven’s produce, and the cold sugared entremets. This labour is the most delicate portion of the art of the pastry-cook. I invented much in this branch—the foundation, the execution, the form—all these parts became easy to me, and I seized on them as of my domain in fee. “I enjoyed perfect freedom at M. de Lavalette’s to compose my dinners. It was there I did the most to realize the pro- blem whose solution I early sought — the union of order, delicacy, and economy. The guests were assiduous at these dinners; they were generally members of the senate, learned men, celebrated officers, all connoisseurs. “ I laboured as a supernumer.ary at the Prince de Talley- rand’s in 1814, when the Emperor Alexander arrived there. There I obtained the friendship and protection of an agreeable and distinguished man, the comptroller of his Imperial Ma- jesty’s household, IM. Muller. Under his direction I became chief cook of the kitchens of the emperor, and was charged with all the e.xpenses and the ordering of the bills of fare. This was the most active moment of nn- life; yet 1 did not renounce my custom, but continued to write what I had changed re- modelled. 1 thus fixed ideas and combinations in my memory which might have been effiiced from it. When the Emperor