321 SAUSAGES. grated lemon-peel. Fill and smoke the sausages. Do not boil them first. 'When to be used put them on the fire in cold water and boil them a quarter of an hour. 1139. “ Rinilfleuchwurste''—Beef Sausages. (No. 4.) These are for frying. To six pounds of beef, minced very fine, add either a pound and a half of fat bacon or pork, or the same weight of solid beef fat, cut into little dice. Mix together three ounces of salt, a small teaspoonful of salt- petre and half an ounce of pepper. Sprinkle in the season- ing when mincing begins. Fill either pig or sheep skins full. Hang them in a cool dry place. 1140. “ Mecklenbarg P}'essu'iirste”—Mecklenburg Pressed Sausages. Lean beef, raw, must be minced to a smooth paste, and the same weight of fat bacon chopped, or cut into little dice. Season with ample salt, pepper, allspice, and very little pounded cloves ; or grind these with the pepper. Fill in beef skins and bind them securely. Lay them close together, sprinkle wth salt, and press them with weights, for twelve hours. Cover each with paper or muslin, and smoke them from four' to six days, when they may be hung ready for slicing uncooked, or put on the fire in cold water and simmered from half an hour to an hour. 1141. Schinken,” oder Sei'velat Wiirste"—Ha^n, or Setrelat Sausages. Legs and shoulders are proper for these : ten pounds of lean pork and two pounds of fat. The inner fat, or hog’s leaf, is best if the weather is cold and you can cut it. Cut up all the lean first and mince it to a pulp. Cut the fat up small, but not to a paste. Mix six ounces of salt, an ounce of black pepper, and a good quarter of an ounce of salt- petre ; the pepper must be coarsely ground, and besides this, mix in a few peppercorns, whole. Mix the season- ings well with the lean during the mincing. Add by degrees a glass of rum or half a tumbler of red wine to moisten it. When the lean is well minced, work in the fat. Lot the mixing be finished in an earthen pan, a few hours before filling, that the seasoning may disperse better. The mincing of the lean and seasonings with it could be far Y