Terms in Use in the Kitchen. XX Compote.—A fine mixed redout to garnish white poultry, &c.; also a method of stewing fruit for dessert. Compotier.—A dish amongst the dessert service appropriated to the use of the compote. Couronne (en).—To serve any prescribed articles on a dish in the form of a crown. Court ou Short.—To reduce a sauce very thick. Croustades.—Fried crusts of bread. Cuisson.—The manner in which meat, vegetables, pastry, or sugar is dressed. It means also the broth or ragout in which meat or fish has been dressed. Cullis or Coulis.—The gravy or juice of meat. A strong consomme. Dessert, entree de.—Dish made of preceding day’s remains. Dorer.—To brush pastry, &c., with yolk of egg well beaten. Dorure.—Yolks of eggs well beaten. Entre cote de Bceuf.—This is the portion of the animal which lies under the long ribs, or those thick slices of delicate meat which may be got from between them. Entrees.—A name given to dishes served in the first course with the fish dishes. Entremets—is the second course, which comes between the roast meat and the dessert. Escalopes.—Small pieces of meat cut in the form of some kind of coin. Fagot—is a bunch of parsley (the size varies of course), a bay leaf, and a sprig of thyme, tied up closely. '\\’hen any- thing beyond this is required it is specified in the article. Farce.—This word is used in speaking of chopped meat, fish, or herbs, with which poultry and other things are stuffed. Feuilletage.—Puff-paste. Filets Mignons.—Inside small fillets. Financiere.—An ex])ensive, highly flavoured, mixed ragout, Glacer (to glaze').—To reduce a sauce by means of ebulli- tion to a consistency equal to that of ice. Well made glaze adheres firmly to the meat. Godiveau.—A common veal forcemeat. Gras (an).—This signifies that the article specified is dressed with meat gravy. Gratincr.—To crisp and obtain a grilled taste. Grosses pieces de Funds.—There are in cookery two very distinct kinds of grosses pieces: the first comprehends substan-