PRESERVES. 283 1012. “ Preisselheei'en"—Cranberries. {No. 2.) Sort and wash the berries. Put them on the fire in cold water. As soon as they are scalding hot, take them off and drain them in a sieve. Thus they lose much of their acrid taste, but not their flavour. The berries must not be left in the sieve a minute, for fear of losing their juice. Turn them into a pan. Boil sugar in proportion of a pound to four quarts of fruit. Put in the berries, and boil them soft, but not to a mash. Cover with a napkin while cooling, and stir them gently occasionally. When cold, fill jars, cover with brandy-paper, and tie them over with bladder or double paper. 1013. “Rum Compot"—Rum Preserve, or Unboiled Preserve. This excellent and useful preserve is made by degi'ees thi-ough the summer, as the various fruits ripen. Begin when strawberries are quite ripe. Put a pint of good rum in a deep stone jar, and with it a pound of strawberries and a pound of powdered loaf-sugar. Stir them gently. Next add a pound of raspberries and a pound of sugar, stirring all together gently from the bottom. Tie over the jar with bladder till currants are ripe. Then put in a pound of red ones, picked from the stems, and their pound of sugar. Cherries follow, picked from their stems, and wiped free from dust. Then greengages or other plums, apricots, or nectarines cut in halves. You may even finish with a pound of blackberries or mulberries, always adding the same weight of sugar, stirring up all together from the bottom, and tying over with the bladder. Gooseberries must not be added, because of their skins. Any of the above fruits may be left out, five or six kinds being quite enough for one pint of rum. If you use a whole bottle of rum, add an extra half-pound of fruit and sugar each time. Let it stand in a dry place a month or two before using; very strong brandy, or Irish whisky, answers as well for this preserve. 1014. “ Pomeranzen Marmelade ”— Orange Mamialade. The proper time for making this is when oranges are qmte ripe and juicy. To every ten sweet oranges, use two hitter or Seville ones. Score them and pare off the peel in