138 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. peel tlie feet. Cut open, scald, and peel the inside of the gizzard. Cut the neck into three or four pieces. Divide the heart and liver. Stew the giblets very slowly in just water enough to cover them, with an onion and a parsley root. Take these out when the giblets are done, and thicken the sauce with bread- crumbs. Stew soft either some apples or pears, to which put a piece of butter, and beat them into a smooth sauce. Add it to the giblets and give all a simmer together. A carrot, a turnip, and a root of celery may be cut into little narrow strips and stewed partly in water, then drained and added to the giblets to stew soft, with an onion, salt and pepper. Leaving out the apples or pears, use butter and flour thickening as usual. 503. “ Odnseschwartz, Westjdlische "—Giblets Westphalian ivay. Prepare all the giblets as usual. Save the blood at killing- time if you can, and stir a little vinegar into it at once. Pour a little vinegar over the giblets and let them remain a day or two thus before cooking. Put them on to stew with water enough to cover them, two or three onions, two or three bay-leaves, four cloves, black pepper and salt, and two hand- fuls of prunes, stewed and the stones taken out. Add the blood if you have it, as it much improves the stew, both in thickness and flavour. Simmer gently till all is tender. Brown some flour in butter, thin it with some gravy from the stew, add it to the rest, and simmer ten minutes longer. 504. “ GdnseMeinmit Eiiben ”— Giblets irith Turnips. Having stewed the giblets till nearly done, slice in a couple of turnips, in pieces the size of a florin. \Mien the turnips are soft, they must not be allowed to boil to a mash. Pour off some of the gravy. Brown some flour in a piece of butter the size of an egg ; mix this with the above gravy, stir the thickening gently into the stow, simmer it a few minutes longer, and serve with potatoes. 605 “ Gdnseklein mil Aepfeln "— Giblets iriih Apples. Stow the giblets tender, in very little water, with an onion, in which stick four cloves, a few sprigs of parsley, and some