169 “ KALTESCHALEN. f} ■ about to place it on table, lay on the top some little sponge- drop cakes or Savoy biscuits. Any light cake or bread may be Wnded. 609. “ Johannisbeer Kalteschale"—Red Currant Kaltescluile. May either be made exactly as above ; or, boil a quart of ripe red currants ■with a pint of water and sugar to sweeten, till the fruit shrinks and is done. Then strain the liquid, put it iu the tureen or bowl ready for table, and set it in a cool place. When quite cold, add a pint of claret, and more sugar if required. Cut thin little uniform slices of roll; sugar them over and brown them delicately in the oven or before the fire; they must only be coloured yellowish and glazed. Throw them into the bowl at the moment of serving. 610. “ Kirschen Kalteschale ”— Cherry Kalteschale. Put two pounds of cherries in an earthen jar, with a pint of water and half a pound of sugar. Cover and set the jar in a saucepan of water. BoU this until the cherries are quite soft; then set the jar in a cool place till next day. liub the cherries through a strainer. Break the stones and boil them and the skins or strainings in a pint of water, with a stick of cinnamon and four bruised cloves, a quarter of an hour. Strain this into the fruit. Add equal quantities of wine and water with sugar to taste, so as to form a smooth syrup. Cut a light roll into thin sippets or dice, sift sugar over them, glaze them ■with a salamander, or in a hot oven, and when they and the fruit are quite cold, throw them in and serve. 611. “ Pfiaumen Kalteschale ”— Plum Kalteschale Is prepared in the same manner as cherries. Cut or break them open, put them in a jar with sugar, water, cloves, and cinnamon to cook the day before they are wanted ; then work them through a coarse strainer, and proceed as in the foregoing recipe with the stones, &c. For damsons or dark plums, use a light, red wine. For pale fruit, a whito wine ; serve with sugared sippets glazed. 612. “ Melone Kalteschale ”— Melon Kalteschale. Peel and slice a melon in very thin, almost transparent, slices, into a glass dish or china howl. Strew plenty of powdered sugar over and between ; sprinkle the juice of two