97 MEATS. an ounce of cloves, the same of mace, and half an ounce of juniper berries. Have a pickling tub quite clean and sv/eet, rinse it with cold water at last, and sprinkle over the bottom with the seasonings. Lay in, closely wedged together, a layer of the beef, strew over this a fair portion of the season- ings ; over this again beef and seasonings, some of which must be left for the top. When all is closely packed and strewn, press the meat down hard with a heavy stamper ; put a cover over, and on this a heavy pressure. In a few days brine should cover the lid, if the meat is closely packed and pressed. Should this not appear, make a jug of strong brine and pour it over. In three or four weeks the moat will be enough pickled. Use the smaller pieces first. 374. “ Hamburger Eauchjieisch ”—Smoked Beef. Lay the piece of smoked meat in lukewarm water from six to twelve hours according to its size and ago, then scrape it, and pare off any blackened outside. Bind it with tape in the form you wish, and put it on the fire in plenty of cold water. Let it simmer very slowly from three to four hours. Unbind and trim the meat again before serving. Strew over it brown raspings, with a little nutmeg grated among them. Many boil roots and herbs with smoked beef to flavour it. The pickled Hamburg beef (see Index), may either be smoked out of the pickle, dried for grating, stewed, boiled, or baked and glazed, to cut cold. 375. “ Roastschnitten in Sauce ”— Hash. Brown flour in butter, slice onions in it, let them brown and soften, add a little water, broth, or gravy, wine, slices of lemon, a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and a little vinegar. Sim- mer these a few minutes ; slice cold roast meat from a joint which is too large to use up. Lay the slices in the sauce to get hot, but do not suffer them to boil, or the meat will be- come hard and spoiled. Either strain the sauce to serve or merely take out the bay-leaf. 376. “ Rindfleiscli Ragout ”—Beef Ragout. Cut thin steaks into nice pieces. Boat them well. Chop onions rather small and stew them soft in butter. Lay in the meat, with salt, pepper, and a glass or two of wine. u