109 MEATS. 411. “ Qrich ”— Calf's Pluck. A calfs heart, kidneys, liver, sweetbread, lights, and feet, must be cut into neat pieces. Melt two or three ounces of butter in a stew-pan, and throw in two tablespoonfuls of flour to brown ; stii’ into this a glass of wine, and water enough to give a thick sauce when boiled. Put in all the meat, excepting the liver and kidneys. Add salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, the juice of a lemon, and a third part of its peel. Close the lid, and let stew an hour ; then add all the liver and kidneys. Simmer all a quarter of an hour longer, stir in a cup of cream, or piece of fresh butter, and serve. 412. “Kalbsherz"—Calf's Heart. Lard the heart all over with good bacon, using a small larding-pin. Roast it a nice brown. Dredge it over with flour, salt, and pepper. Lay it in a small stew-pan with some gravy or broth, a chip of lemon-peel, three cloves, four juniper-berries, or a bay-leaf. Let it remain covered and slowly steaming for an hour. Add some sour cream, or lemon-juice, before serving. 413. “ Gefiilltes Herz "— Stuffed Heart. Make the filling of a rasher of fat bacon minced, a slice of bread soaked in cold water and pressed out, some shred parsley, a little thyme, and chives, a little grated lemon-peel, salt, pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and an egg, all well mixed. Fill the heart, sew, or skewer it close. Lard it all over. Roast it a rich brown, then put it in a saucepan just large enough to hold it. Pour over a glass of red wine and some gravy. Skim the fat off the sauce before serving, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over the heart. 414. “ Geddmpftes Kallfleisch "— Steamed Veal. Any part of veal wiU do for this. Make a good-sized piece of butter hot in a deep stew-pan. Lay in the veal, the best side down, to brown ; then turn and brown it all over. When nicely coloured, add some broth or water; baste it often; cover close, and let it steam over a slow fire. While the meat is browning, boil a carrot sliced, an onion, a little mace, thyme, and lemon-peel in a small covered sauce- pan with about half a pint of water. Strain this water over