324 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. full and simmer them half an hour. If to be used hot while fresh, they do not need boiling when first made, but may either he fried or boiled when required for table. 1146. ^^Mecklenburg Leber Wiirste”—Mecklenburg Liver Sausages, At pig-killing time, take any cuttings of pork ; the breast part is best. Slice it, as also the tongue, kidneys, some fat, and the sward cut from the loins. Boil all these slowly, till tender, in very little water. Cut all into small dice. Mince the kidneys very fine. Mince and bruise the liver raw and work it through a coarse sieve, then mix all well together, with a good seasoning of salt, pepper, five or six cloves finely ground with the pepper, and a little finely powdered sage, if approved. When all is thoroughly mixed, lade over it, as filling fat, the top of the liquor the meat was boiled in. Do not fiU the skins quite full as the fiver will swell in the boiling. Simmer them half an hour, in the same saucepan and water. Dip them in a pan of cold water when taken out, then hang them to dry. Either smoke or use them fresh. 1147. “ Gerducherte Leber Wurste”—Liver Sausages, Smoked, Prepare the fiver as directed in No. 1144. Parboil the fights, to harden them, but do not let them quite boil. Have ready boiled in as little water as possible, a pound of cuttings, or any part of the pork, and as much sward (the skin of the pig, flayed from the roasting or larding parts); the latter will require much longer boiling than the meat. Mince the lights, meat, and sward fine, then mix all with the fiver. Add salt, pepper, ginger, a small onion or shalot minced and bruised fine, some grated lemon-peel, and enough of the water in which the meat was boiled to moisten the whole well. Fill large skins, leaving room to swell. Boil them slowly for an hour. If the skins are small, half an hour is enough. Hang them a day or two in cool smoke. 1148. “ Gerducherte Leber Wurste”—Liver Sausages, Smoked, (Xo, 2.) Boil in very little water a couple of pounds of the breast