165 VEGETABLES. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a saucepan; let it melt; 597. “ Bhimenkohr’— Cauliflowers Are dressed as in England, with a white sauce poured over. The flower is generally divided into tufts, and yolks of eggs and nutmeg are sthred into the sauce if approved. 598. “ Sauerkraut ”— To pickle Sour Kraut. The finest and hardest white cabbages must be chosen. It improves their colour to let them he heaped together in a cool corner for several days before they are used. The cutting is usually done with an instrument, called a “ kohlhobel ” (cabbage-plane). Instead of this, a large knife will do. Throw away the outer leaves of the cabbages, halve and quarter them. Cut out the stalks and larger ribs of the leaves. Begin at the top of the head to cut them across in very narrow strips. Have I’eady a well-seasoned oak barrel, or pickling tub ; or an earthen bread-pan would do. Cover the bottom of the vessel with clean cabbage-leaves, throw in the cabbage as it is cut; sprinkle it with salt, equally dispersed as it is thrown in. Many scatter in a few juniper- berries, or caraway-seeds. As the shred cabbage is put into the tub, it should be stamped down hard with a club. When all is packed close, strew a little salt over the top, cover it with a few cabbage-leaves, and then with a clean Hnen cloth. Put on it a wooden lid that will fit inside the vessel, and lay on this a heavy stone. Do not put the “kraut stand ” in too cool a place until fermentation has begun; this may be known by small white globules forming on the brine, which ought to appear above the kraut after a day or two. If this is not the case, boil salt and water, let it get cold, and then pour it over. This latter must not be a strong brine. A good handful of salt is enough to allow for a large bucket or firkin of cut cabbage ; too much prevents fermentation. In a fortnight, the cloth on the top must be well washed in cold water, and spread over again. At the same time, the leaves on the top must either be well rinsed also or renewed. This washing must be done once every week, whether kraut is taken out or not. In two or three weeks it is pickled enough for use, and will keep good a year. 599. “ Sauerkraut"— To cook Sour Kraut.