295 PICKLES. cellent, either as an ordinary pickle or as a substitute for capers in sauces. 1054. “ Perlzivicheln "— Bead Onions, Wash the onions, throw plenty of salt over, and let them stand at least twelve hours, then rub off the peels. If you use a knife to scrape them dip it constantly in water, to pre- vent its staining the onions black. Have white wine vinegar in the jars, with sliced horseradish, bruised white pepper, and tarragon-leaves. Throw in the onions as you peel them. Tie over and let them stand three or four days, then pour ofl' and boil the vinegar. Pour it scalding over the onions, enough to cover them well. They keep best in bottles corked. 1055. “ Champignons," or “ Steinpilze ”— Mvshrooms. Select small button mushrooms, cut from the roots. Have water boiling, just enough to cover the mushrooms ; add a glass of wine vinegar to it and salt it well. Throw in the mushrooms and let them simmer a few minutes, two or three at longest; strain and leave them in the sieve to cool. Boil white wine vinegar with cloves, pepper, shalots, a little tarragon, bay-leaves, and mace. Keep the vinegar covered, and let the spices infuse in it until quite cold. Bottle the mushrooms, strain the vinegar, and pour it over the mush- rooms. Should there be any signs of mildew forming on the top of the vinegar after a week or two, boil it over again, add more spice to strengthen it, and when cold fill up the bottles. 1056. “ Champignons einzumachen ”— To Preserve or Pot Mushrooms. Mushrooms the size of a hazel-nut must be quite freed from dust by brushing and wiping. According to your quantity of mushrooms, put butter to melt in a stew-pan, with a few cloves, some white pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. When the butter is skimmed clear put in the mushrooms and stir them gently until they begin to soften, then fill them in glasses at once. The butter should be at least half an inch thick on the top. When they are quite cold and the butter hard, put fine salt half an inch deep on it, and tie