SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 263 926. “ Braune Lebkuchen,’’ or “ Leckerle”—Fme Gingerbread. A pint and a half of honey made scalding hot, half a pound of sugar, an ounce of powdered cinnamon, half a pound of almonds blanched and sliced, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, a quarter of a pound of candied peel, and flour enough worked in to form a paste that will roll out a quarter of an inch thick. Cut or stamp out any forms of small cakes, and bake on floured tins in a slow oven. 927. “ Honig Kuchcn ”—Honey Cakes. A pound of honey, a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of almonds pounded coarsely, a drachm of pounded cloves, the grated peel of a lemon, and hall an ounce of carbonate of soda dissolved in water. Let honey and butter come to a boil over the fire, take this off, and in a few minutes stir in the flour and spice by degrees, then the almonds, and lastly the soda. Let the mass stand all night in a cool place. In the morning roll it out half an inch thick, cut it into little square cakes, put half an almond in each comer, and a slice of peel in the middle. Bake them in a moderate oven a pale brown. 928. “Haselnuss Leckerle ”— Hazel-Nut Dainties. A quarter of a pound of hazel-nuts and an ounce of sweet almonds must be coarsely pounded, not to a paste. Mix with them six ounces of sugar, the whites of two eggs whisked to a snow, and just flour enough to bind the whole. Roll the paste out thin, cut out httle cakes, and bake them on buttered tins in a slow oven. 929. “ Zimmt Leckerle ”— Cinnamon Dainties. The whites of two eggs whipped to a snow, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of almonds pounded in their skins, half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a tablespoonful of cinnamon water, and flour enough to form a paste. Cut out thin fancy shapes in little cakes, and bake in a slow oven. 930. “ Dicker brauner Kuchen ”—Thick Gingerbread. Two pounds of flour, two pounds of treacle, half a pound of sugar, six ounces of sliced almonds, half a pound of butter, the peel of a lemon cut small, half an ounce of