219 PUDDINGS. quite soft. Stii’ three ounces of butter to a cream, add to it three ounces of powdered sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and two ounces of almonds blanched and powdered, or, in- stead of these, half a lemon-peel gi’ated ; then stir in the cooled rice, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs whipped to a snow. Well butter a mould, in which make a star of sultana raisins. Boil the pudding an hour and a quarter. 794. “ Schwarzer Pudding ”—Dingij Pudding. Stir together the yolks of four eggs, two ounces of sugar, and an ounce and a half of almonds, sliced in their peel. Then stir in two ounces of gi’ated chocolate, two teaspoon- fuls of grated brown bread soaked in red wine, two ounces of currants, half a teaspoonful of allspice or six pounded cloves, and add the egg-whites, whisked to a snow. Steam the pudding in a covered mould, and serve with chocolate sauce poured over. Allow an hour and a half to steam. 795. “ Chocolade Pudding ”— Chocolate Pudding. Set a pint and a quarter of milk on the fire, with a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate and two ounces of fine flour. Stir this until it boils and thickens, then pour it into a bowl, and when cold add the yolks of six eggs and their whites beaten apart to a snow. Add sugar to taste, and boil it an hour and a half in a well-buttered mould. Serve with chocolate sauce. 796. “ Chocolade Pudding ”— Chocolate Pudding. {No. 2.) Beat six ounces of butter to a cream, add a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate, three ounces of sugar, and, by degrees, the yolks of eight eggs, and a quarter of a pound of grated brown bread, or stale rolls with their crust on. Pound eight cloves with a quarter of a stick of vanilla; add these to the mass, and lastly add the whites of the eight eggs, whisked to a stiff snow. Butter a mould well, strew it with raspings, fill it, and boil the pudding an hour and a half. Serve with pounded sugar, or any approved sauce. 797. “ Rothe Grutze”—Red Groats Pudding. Boil raspberries or red currants, press and strain the juice. To a pint of this add a pint of red wine, and set it on the fire