VEGETABLES. 163 as much flour as it will absorb, add a little broth or water, salt, and pepper. Stir it to a thick sauce, then stir in the spinach. When quite hot, serve with enough hard eggs sliced to garnish prettily. 591. “ Kraut," or “ Kohl ”— Cabbage. Cabbage of every kind, as cooked in Germany, is a much more delicate vegetable than as generally used in England. It is one of our most wholesome dishes; yet, how often it is rejected, on account of its strong flavour. It should be boiled in plenty of water ; this poured away when the cabbage is half done, and fresh water added. When boiled enough, throw it into cold water, but strain ofi' the boiling water first. Let the cabbage remain in the cold water, while you melt a piece of butter in a saucepan, and dredge in flour — as for a moderate thickening. Before this browns, drain the cabbage, and either cut it through several times, or chop it small. Put it into the butter sauce, and stir occasionally till quite hot. 592. “ Bairisches Kraut ”— Bavarian Cabbage. One or two full-grown white cabbages must be washed and stripped of their outer leaves. Quarter them, cut out the stalks, and slice the cabbage across in strips, as thin and fine as possible. Sprinkle among the shreds some salt and a few caraway-seeds. Let it stand an hour. Make two or three ounces of butter hot in a stew-pan. Put in the cabbage and let it stew till it is soft and yellow. Then pour in a glass of white wine and half the quantity of vinegar; there must not be enough of the latter to taste acid. Cover close, and let it stew slowly till quite soft. Half an hour before serving, dredge in a little flour and stir it well. 593. “Both Kraut"—Bed Cabbage. Prepare and cut it as directed for Bavarian cabbage; sprinkle the shreds with salt and two or three spoonfuls of vinegar. Put about half a pound of fat bacon or ham rashers in a stew-pan to fry; when they are crisped take them out, and put the cabbage into the fat. Pour over a little gravy or water and leave it, well covered, to stew slowly. After an hour add a glass of red wine, a spoonful of sugar, a few caraway-seeds, and dredge it with flour.