GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 78 300. “ Cichorien Salat"—Succory. The leaves that have become yellow may be cut up, and used with salt, oil, and vinegar. They are good and whole- some used with other leaf salads. 801. “ Winter Salat ”—Red Cabbage and Celery. [No. 2.) Choose a hard, solid red cabbage ; take oflf the outer leaves ; quarter and wash it well; drain it, and part the leaves ; cut out thin stalks and ribs, and cat the rest into very thin shreds. Prepare and cut up the tender parts of a root or two of celery, and mix it with the cabbage. Garnish in the middle with a tuft of green celery-tops. 302. “ G-urken Salat”—Cucumber Salad. "When cucumbers are bitter, cut off a good half-inch at the point, before peeling. Or, peel them from the stem down- wards, leaving the point untouched; as it is there the hitter lies, and is dispersed by the knife going through it. Shce them very thin ; a cucumber plane is best for this purpose. Serve them with any kind of dressing. They are especially good and wholesome with plain potato salad. 303. “ Polnischer Salat ”—Polish Salad. Cut up cold roast game or poultry in very small dice ; season it with pepper, salt, mustard, and finely minced chives; pour over equal parts of oil and vinegar. Have two or three eggs boiled three minutes ; stir in the yolks -with the meat; chop the whites very small, and stir in these, so that all is well mixed. At the time of serving, mix the above with cut-up lettuce or endive. 304. “ Haring Salat”—Herring Salad. No precise quantities or proportions can be given for this favourite salad, as the ingredients may be varied according to taste. Good, white, barrelled herrings must be chosen ; the Dutch arc best. Lay them in water or milk for an hour or two to take out the salt. Open them, take out the bones, and cut in small, thin slices, or chop them. An equal quantity of finely minced veal or other white meat is often added to the herring. Stir a small piece of butter to a cream, add to it some white or cayenne pepper, mustard, a