144 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 521. “ Gefullte Tauhen”— Filled Fiyeons. Chop livers, hearts, and gizzards small. Soak a roll in cold milk and press it out; mix it with the above mince, add salt, pepper, a very httle chives or onion if not objected to, and some parsley. Or, instead of any of the three latter, only a grate of nutmeg and a little bacon minced very fine. Mix all together, with an egg to bind it. Fill the crop from between the skin and flesh of the neck. Tie or sew over the neck, and roast as before directed. 522. “ Wilde Tauhen ”— Wild Pigeons. Lay them a few days in the marinade for game. Cut them in halves and lard them. Finish as dmected for pigeons piquant. 523. “ Wachteln ”— Quails. Quails and other small birds may be rubbed with salt and pepper, rolled up in rashers of bacon, put into a stew-pan with some butter, and done a delicate brown; then strew some bread-crumbs over, and when these are brown add gravy or water, a bay-leaf, a small onion, a little wine, salt, and pepper. Simmer gently till the birds are soft, and strain the gravy to serve. Or dress them without seasoning as in the following. 524. “ Schnepfen ”— Snipes. Having plucked them, skin the head, and take out the eyes. Singe them, and cut oflf their claws. Twist the legs, disjointing them, to bring the feet close to the thighs, and through these put the long beak as a skewer. The position w'ill indicate how the breast may be kept thrown up by pass- ing a twine round the joints and lower part of the bodj', to tie at the back. Put them in a stew-pan, just large enough to hold them, with butter enough to keep them basted; tmming as they are done on one side, till thej’ are tinged all over. About twentj' minutes, by a brisk heat, will cook them. Toast slices of bread, pour on these the butter they were cooked in, and serve the birds on them. Dressed in this way, they are not drawn before the trussing. 525. “Schnepfen”—Snipes. (Xo. 2.) Prepare the birds as above, but draw them, put the whole of the inside on a platter, open the gizzard to take out any