192 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. form a dough; knead this till quite smooth, Di\ude the paste into small halls, roll them round in the hands ; then, with a smooth rolling-pin, roll them out as thin as possible: they should be the size of a saucer, but rather oval. Spread over them whatever they are to be called after. Roll them up, when the shape will be larger in the middle and tapering olf at both ends. Lay them an inch apart in a baking-tin or large stew-pan that has been well buttered; cover, and either bake them in the oven or over a slow fire, with red coals on the hd, to draw them. "When they are risen and beginning to colour, pom- some hot milk over, and finish baking a very- pale brown. 690. “ Fleisch Strudeln ”— Meat Strudels. Mince any kind of meat very fine ; season and flavour it to taste ; moisten with gravy or cream; spread it half-an-inch thick over the strudel: roll up, and finish as above directed. 691. “ Eahm Stnideln ”— Cream Stncdels. Spread over each strudel two tablespoonfuls of thick sour cream and a little salt; roll them together, put a small piece of butter on each, and hake as above. When they are risen, and about to colour, boil some milk and pour it over; then finish baking. If preferred sweet, mix sugar with the cream, and sift some over when dished. 692. “ Eahm Strudeln ”— Cream Strudels. {No. 2.) Boil a pint of milk wuth two ounces of butter, two of sugar, and six or seven ounces of flour; stir it until it becomes a thick paste, no longer clinging to the sides of the pan. Take it from the fire, and keep stirring till half cold; then mix in the yolks of four eggs and two whole ones. Have a stew-pan half full of boiling milk ready, flavoured with vanilla. Form from the mass long rolls the size of a finger. Lay them in the boiling milk to simmer five minutes ; take them up with a skimmiug-ladle, and lay them on a sieve to drain. They must have plenty of room in the boiling, and it is l>etter there- fore to boil a second part while the first is draining. When all arc done, lay them across each other in a well-buttered dish. Boil down the milk in a stew-pan ; stir the yolks of four eggs into it; sweeten, and pour it over the strudeln.