KUCHEN. 247 873. “ Kirschen Kuclien”—Cherry Cake, {No. 2.) Cover an inch-deep tin with a “ miirberteig; ” the paste must always come up the sides of these tins to the edge. Lay in about two pounds of cherries, two deep nearly; put it in a well-heated oven for a quarter of an hour. During the time, mix five or six well-beaten eggs with half a pint of sour cream or fresh milk, six ounces of sugar, and a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Draw the cake out of the oven, quickly pour the custard over, and return it to hake suffi- ciently. 874. “ Kirschen Kuchen"—Cherry Cake. (iVb. 3.) Lay cherries closely on a good thin paste, and strew over them a handful of sugar ; mix four eggs, a pint of milk, two ounces of pounded almonds, three or four ounces of sugar, and half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Stir all thoroughly, and pour it over the cherries ; hake in a moderate oven. 875. Kirschen Kuchen”—Plainer Cherry Cake. {No. 4.) Spread a tin with any plain paste, cover it with cherries, and pour over the following mass : two tablespoonfuls of flour, the same of sugar, and two beaten eggs, thinned with milk to the consistency of thick cream. 876. “ Himbeer Kuchen”—Raspberry Cake. Set a quart of raspberries over the fire, with three ounces of sugar sprinkled over. Do not sth-, but shake them now and then. Before they fall, take out the fruit with a perfo- rated spoon, and boil down the syrup. Meanwhile, stir three ounces of butter to a cream, add two ounces of blanched almonds pounded, an ounce of sugar, an ounce of grated bread, and the yolks of four eggs ; mix these well, and then stir in the whites of the eggs whisked to a snow. Cover a shal- low tin with tart-paste, spread on this the fruit and syrup; then spread over the mass, and bake the kuchen in a brisk oven. 877. “ Rahm Kuchen”— Cream Cake. Spread a tin with tart-paste ; beat four eggs and stir them into a pint of cream, with a little salt; add a few little lumps of butter. Pour the cream over the paste, and bake a rich yellow.