POULTRY AND GAME. 139 salt and peppei’. Peel and quarter some apples, steam them soft in a little water, some sugar, and a slice of lemon-peel. Before the apples are done to a mash, strain oil’ their s)'imp, and pour into this some of the gravy from the giblets. Brown a large tablespoonful of flour in butter, pour the sauce into this, and stir it over the Are till thick and smooth, then take out the onion and parsley, add the sauce to the giblets, and use sugar browning to give a rich colour. Wash well, and plump in hot water a good handful of currants, strew these among the giblets. Mix in the apple quarters without breaking them, and make all quite hot. 506; “ Gdnseklein mit Birnen ”— Giblets with Pears. Set the giblets on the Are, with a few slices of fresh or pickled pork, in enough cold water to cover them ; add some salt and pepper. Let them simmer slowly till quite tender. Pour away nearly all of their sauce, and put this in another stew-pan, with six cloves, and a saltspoonful of ground allspice (pimento). Peel and quarter some pears, and lay them in the sauce to stew till tender. Add a little sugar, and colour the sauce with sugar browning very dark. In the killing, the goose-blood should be caught, and a little vinegar stiiTed into it at once. This should be stirred among the giblets. Dish them and the pork. Lay the pears on the top, and pour over the sauce. Lay “ Weissbrod Kldsse ” round the edge of the dish. 507. “ Gdnseklein ”— Goose Giblets a ‘plainer way. The giblets must be left to simmer till done, in just enough water for the sauce. Chop a couple of onions small and steam them till yellow, in a small stew-pan, with butter only ; then add to them some gravy from the giblets, salt, pepper, and thyme enough to season highly. Add this sauce to the giblets, with a little flour, if necessary, to give a thick smooth sauce. Simmer all a quarter of an hour together. 508. “ Gdnseschmalz ”— Goose Lard. This much-esteemed and useful article should never bo wasted, as it usually is in English kitchens. Both lard and dripping serve many purposes in the Corman menage. Their preservation and uses wiU be pointed out by the General Index.