Anthony Car erne. 40 borders were thus composed; for the slices of salmon, ieurre rose; for the eels, beurre d la ravigotte vert-tendre; for the salads of Jilets de sole, borders of eggs; for the mayommises de volaille, the same; for the ga'hie and fowls, borders of truffles, mushrooms, and morels.” New Invention of Careme. “Towards 1804 I imagined our new suedoises. The shapes which they had before my time were without grace or elegance, ily attempt had a decided success at a grand extra of a ball, which the marshals of France gave to the Chief-Consul, their master. The ball was magnificent; it was given in the Salle de rOpera decorated with hangings. M. Becar, cook of the sugared entremets, called me in to assist him, he confided to me the suedoises. I made him thirty-six of them, and for several days afterwards these suedoises were the only topic of conver- sation from the kitchens to the salons of Paris. Happy times! agreeable labours! ” The following are the most striking among the Aphorisms, Thoughts, and Maxims, of the Cook Careme. “ France is the mother-country of amphitryons. Its kitchen and its wines assure the triumph of gastronomy. It is the only country in the world for good cheer. Strangers are con- vinced of these truths. “ The culinary art serves as a sort of escort to European diplomacy. “ The great diplomatist should have a renowned cook. “ The diplomatist is a fine appreciator of a good dinner. “ For the young nobility, embassies are courses of diplomacy and gastronomy. “ Gastronomy marches like a queen at the head of civiliza- tion, but vegetates merely in a period of revolution. “ Great doctors and great musicians are great lovers of good living; witness the celebrated Broussais, Roques, Rossini, and Boi'eldieu. “ The rich man, fond of the pleasures of the table, passes through life with comfort and happiness, when he cares not a straw for public affairs. “ Cookery is a difficult art; a generous host knows how to appreciate its grandeur and dignity.