93 MEATS. the strained gravy by degrees, stirring it quite smooth. Add a little lemon-juice or vinegar; and, whether-it be served whole or sliced, the sauce must be dished with the tongue. If garlic is objected to, make a thick sauce of grated horseradish, the carrot bruised fine, sorrel, capers, and a little wine. Garnish with lemon-slices and parsley. 358. “ Gerducherte Zimge ”—Smoked Tongue. Lay the tongue a night in water. Put it on the fire in cold water, and simmer until a skewer goes easily through it. Skin and trim it. Press it, while warm, into any shape you please. Garnish whole, or cut in thin slices, and arrange it in a wreath with cresses, beetroot, slices of lemon, or other garnish. 359. “ Saure Oxenzunge”—Sour Tongue. Put a fresh tongue from two to four days in a pickle of a wineglass of vinegar, two or three slices of lemon, and either an onion, garlic, or shalot sliced, six cloves, a tea- spoonful of black pepper, and two bay-leaves. When about to dress it, wipe the tongue dry. Melt an egg-sized piece of butter in a stew-pan; sprinkle in a good handful of bread- crumbs, and dredge in flour to brown. Mince, and add a couple of rashers of bacon. Strain in the pickle. Add broth or water enough to thin the sauce moderately. Lay in the tongue, and let it simmer till quite tender. If the sauce is not piquant enough, add lemon-juice or vinegar, a little ca) enne pepper, and a glass of claret. When the tongue is peeled, pour a little of the sauce over it, and serve the rest in a tureen. 360. “ Braunes Ragout von Zunge ”—Broun Ragout of Tongue. Piub a fresh tongue with salt, and wash it thoroughly. Put it in a stew-pan just large enough to hold it, with cold water barely covering it. Let it simmer about three hours, skin it, and cut ofi' the root. Slice it half an inch thick, and proceed as for brown ragout of poultry, or the same as “ Hasenpfeffer.” 361. “ Zungen Fricassee ”— Fricassee of Tongue. Boil a fresh tongue tender, as above. Trim and cut it in similar slices. Make a creamy sauce, by browning a table-