7 SOUPS. catcly -white, just let it come to a simmer; then take it out and lay it in cold water. Take off the outer skin ; cut up the meat in small dice, or divide it into little marbles, and give it a boil up in good, white veal soup. If for brown soup, fry the little pieces of sweetbread rapidly in butter, and drain them on a napkin. They must only be coloured yellow. 21. “ Kalbskopf Suppe ”— Calf’s Head Soup. Having well washed and soaked the head, put it on the fire in cold water, and simmer it two hours and a half from the time of its coming to a scalding heat. When quite done, take it out. Cut the meat off in neat slices; slice the tongue also and take out the brains. Throw back the bones into the soup. Dry a pinch of saffron, rub it to powder, put it in the soup, with a small -wineglassful of pale vinegar, a tablespoonful of sugar, a little nutmeg, and salt to taste. Shred parsley may be added if approved. The brains, divided into small pieces, must be put into the tureen, with three or four yolks of eggs, beaten, and the scalding soup poured on them. Dip the slices of meat in egg and bread crumbs; fry them a delicate brown, in butter, and serve them after the soup, with any white vegetable. 22. “ Huhner Suppe ”— Chicken Soup. Pluck and singe a large fowl, a day or two before it is to be cooked. For soup, it must be laid in water a short time. Cut off the feet, scald and skin them, and chop off the claws. Head, feet, and gizzard must be put with the fowl into cold water, and set on the fire to simmer three hours. Make a thickening of a piece of butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and a little milk ; add this and the liver, cut in very small pieces, to be boiled a quarter of an hour; then add salt and parsley. Small pieces of either asparagus, cauliflower, or seakale, in lieu of scorzonera, may bo boiled first, drained, and thrown in just before serving. Have a couple of yolks of eggs and a grate of nutmeg in the tureen, to pour the soup on. 23. “ Verlorenes Hiihml Supj>e ”—Lost Chicken Soup. Cut one or two stale rolls in slices a good half-inch thick, and from these stamp out, with a little round cutter the size of a shilling, cakes without the crust; or cut the slices into small dice ; soak these in well-beaten eggs, mixed with