GERJMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 114 428. “ Hammelkeule wie Hose ”—Leg of Mutton as Hare. Let the mutton be well hung. Beat it well, and take off the skin. Rub it with black pepper, salt, and powdered cloves or a little allspice. Lard the meat all over, and roast it a rich brown, basting frequently with milk, and dredging with flour occasionally, till it is well coated. Serve with a rich sauce piquant. Garnish with lemon slices. 429. “ Marinirte Hammelkeule”—Mutton Marinaded. Beat a well-hung leg or shoulder of mutton and skin it. Cut up two carrots, a root of celery, a large onion or a few shalots, and a little garlic. Put these in a deep dish with a few juniper-berries, two or three bay-leaves, half-a-dozen cloves, a teaspoonful of black pepper, and a sprig of thyme or marjoram. Pour over a gill of vinegar and a glass of wine. Lay the mutton in this marinade four daj’s, turning and basting it twice every day. Roast or bake it a nice brovTi. In the meantime, put a cup of water to the in- gredients of the marinade and boil it twenty minutes ; then strain it, add some salt, and mth this baste the meat frequently. When done, skim the fat ofl’ the sauce, thicken it with flour or potato-meal, boil it up, and serve in a sauce- tureen. If you intend baking the meat, quarter the carrots into the marinade and cook them in the dish with the meat. Lay them round it when served. This joint is excellent larded with fat bacon before dressing. Either stewed cucumbers, French beans, or white haricot beans, are good with it as vegetable. 430. “ Ragout von Hammclflcisch ”—Ragout of ^futton. Cutlets from the neck or breast of mutton, cut in pieces, must be put on in enough cold water to cover them, and gently stowed for an hour. Take the fat oil', and thicken the sauce with flour. Season with a handful of parsley, chopped fine, salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, or a few caraway-seeds. Cover close and simmer till tender. 431. “ Gediimp/tc Hammehchale mit Gurken ”— Shoulder of Mutton uith Steurd Cueumlnn-s. After beating a shoulder well, take off the skm and super- fluous fat; rub it with salt and pepper. Lay it in a deep