166 GEIUIAN NATIONAL COOKERY. then put in half of your sour kraut, and on this the meat in- tended to be cooked with it—either a piece of ham or bacon, soaked and pared, pork, or any kind of sausages. Lay over the other half of the kraut, pour in a glass of white wine, add occasionally a little water to moisten it; cover close, and let it stew gently till the kraut is soft and yellow. Take out the meat when sufficiently cooked. Dredge in a tablespoonful of floui’ to give smoothness'; let it stew half an hour longer; then lay in the meat again to get thoroughly hot. Be sure the ki-aut does not burn in the cooking; stir it occasionally with a wooden spoon. It is good warmed up next day, or a day or two after, with some other meat. Indeed it cannot be cooked too much, and requires at first from two and a half to three hours’ stewing. Sauerkraut, as an accompaniment to smoked meats, roast pork, sausages, &c., may be cooked as above, without the meat; in which case, make a flour and butter thickening to stir in half an hour before serving. A finely minced onion is often added in the stewing. 600. “ Qrune Bolinen ”—French Beans. String and cut them as usual. Make a piece of butter hot in a stew-pan. Put in the beans, with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, a sprig of winter savory (bohnenkraut), and a cup of broth or water. Let them stew till tender. 601. “ Bohnen”—Beans. Another icay. (iVo. 2.) When they are older, string, cut, and boil them in salt and water, with a sprig of savory or maijoram, till soft; then strain them. Brown some flour in butter, thin it with gravy or water, add salt, pepper, and chopped parsley if approved; give it a boil and add it to the beans. Let them stew till there is no fluid left. 602. “ Weisse Bohnen”— ir/t/fc Beans. Dry white beans must be soaked all night, or at least five or six hours, in cold water. Boil them soft, then strain, and return them to the saucepan with a piece of butter and some salt; or, make a white butter sauce, to which lemon-juice or white vinegar may be added, stir it into the beans, and let them simmer a few minutes.