GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 42 thick and bright. Dissolve the jelly. Put a little of it in a mould, or deep pie dish ; then arrange in it portions of fish, not too close together, reversing the skin and pink sides. Cover these with liquid jelly. Let this set; then fill up with fish and jelly. Turn it out when quite cold. 149. “ Kaheljau ”— Cod May be boiled plain and served with sorrel or other sauce, or dressed as directed for pike ; or they may be fried in slices a delicate brown, garnished with slices of lemon and parsley, and served with oiled butter. 150. “ Laberdan,” or “ Stockjisch ”— Salt Cod. Must be well soaked over night, to draw the salt out. Set it on the fire in cold water, and let it just come to a boiling heat; then simmer a few minutes, and serve with pieces of butter melted on it, and any approved sauce. 151. “ Panfisch ”—A Fish Rock. Remains of cod, or other boiled fish, to be cleared from skin and bone, then minced fine. Mince an onion. Put it in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, and steam it soft. Then put in the fish, with salt, white pepper, and finely mashed or gi'ated potatoes. Stir aU well together, with a piece of butter. Make it hot; serve it nicely raised, with crumbs browned in butter sprinkled over, or prettily ornamented with narrow strips of pickled beetroot. 152, “ Makrelen ”— Mackerel. Boil a mai’inade of three-fourths water and one of vine- gar ; with pepper, salt, an onion sliced, a sprig each of tar- ragon or fennel, basilicum, and thyme. Simmer these a few minutes ; then lay in the fish, and let them simmer together twenty minutes. Serve with “ Holstein sauce.” If to bo eaten cold :—Cook as above ; take them up when done, and lay them in a deep dish; let the marinade get cold; add a little more vinegar; and pour it over the fish. 153. “ Scezuvffen”—Soles. These are dressed plainly in the English way. If boiled, skin them and cut oflf head and fins; lay them in boiling Avater Avith some salt; let them simmer about ten minutes, and serve Avith any plain sauce.