GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 314 coffee are much esteemed for theii- ■wholesome properties irrespective of economy. 1121. “ FAchel Kaffee ”— Acorn Coffee. Properly prepared, this is very strengthening for delicate childi-en and persons of consumptive tendency. Acorns should be collected when they fall from the trees in autumn ; they are then ripe. Peel and cut them into pieces the size of coffee berries. Dry them thoroughly by the fire or in a cool oven, and keep them in a dry place in paper or linen bags. Roast them as you would coffee, not darker than cin- namon brown. Immediately after the roasting, the acorns must be powdered, or they will become tough. Either adjust a coffee mill to its coarsest capability of grinding, or pound them in an iron mortar. If ground finely the coffee will not be perfectly clear. Keep it well corked in a bottle when roasted and powdered. For an adult, pour a pint of boiling water on half an ounce of the coffee and let it boil a quarter of an hour. For children, boil a quarter of an ounce in a pint of water. Pour it off like other coffee, and add milk and sugar to taste. Young children should take it -with two or three parts milk. 1122. “ Homdopatlnscher Kaffee ”— Homeopathic Coffee. Barley roasted and ground, and mixed with an equal quantity of acorn coffee, gives a wholesome and strengthening beverage. Put a large tablespoonful of the coffee into a pint of boiling ■water, and let it boil gently for ten or fifteen minutes in an ordinary coffee-pot. Either let it settle in this till clear, or filter it through the bag of the table coffee-pot. Take it with ample milk and sugar to taste. 1123. “ Kaffee zn Machcn ”— To make Coffee. Coflee should not be boiled, as by this process its delicacy of aroma is suffered to escape ; it should merely be filtered. Opinions difler on the merits of the various percolators now to be had; but w’hether one of these or the filtering bag be used, place in it the requisite quantity of freshly ground coffee, after having made the receiving vessel quite hot with boiling water ; allow a quarter of an ounce for each cup, or, half a pint of boiling water to each ounce of coffee, unless preferred very strong, when, allow half an ounce for each