40 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. Small cod or large haddock are very nice cooked in this way. Keep the form of the fish as much as possible in spreading on the mince. 142. “ Karpfen init Polnischer Sauce”—Carp idlh Polish Sauce. Lay thin slices of parsnip, celerj'^, and onion in a stew- pan, with a good-sized piece of butter, some salt, pepper, two slices of lemon, two bay-leaves, and six cloves. Split open the carp, leaving the hack whole. Lay it flat on the seasoning, with the back uppermost. Lay the head, tail, liver, and milt on the top, and with these a couple of thick slices of brown gingerbread, broken up. Pour over a tablespoonful or two of vinegar, and beer enough to barely cover the fish. Simmer all, till the fish is well done. Take it up carefully. Put the head back into the sauce, and stew this to a rich brown. Season it to taste, and strain it over the fish, which must have a thick brown glazing. 148. “ Karpfen in Brauner Sauce ”—Carp in Brown Sauce. Cut the cai'p in pieces, and pack them in a deep dish, strewing between some salt, pepper, three pounded cloves, a bay-leaf, a couple of slices of lemon, and a small shalot minced. Pour over a glass of wine and the same of vinegar. Cover, and let them stand a few hours. Melt some butter in a stew-pan, and dredge in as much flour as it absorbs, to brown. Thin this with very little water, just to keep the thickening from burning to a cake. Mince a rasher or two of bacon, and a small onion. Put these in the stew-pan, and drain in the pickle from the fish. When the sauce boils, lay in the fish, and simmer gently till done. Dish the slices whole, and strain the sauce over them. 144. “ Krebse zu Sieden”—To Boil Crayfish. Choose the largest and blackest fish. Among the various ways of boiling them are :—Fii-st. Boil an onion sliced, a few sprigs of parsley, a large teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, salt, pepper, a wineglassful of vinegar and two of beer, in just water enough to cover the quantity of fish. Let this boil ten minutes, then strain, and return the water to the saucepan. AVhen it boils again throw in the fish and cover them close, shaking occasionally. Allow ten minutes’ gentle