288 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 1029. “ Preissclhccr Gelee ”— Cranberry Jelly. This jelly is most useful for ornamenting various sweet dishes, on account of its beautiful colour and clearness. Wash and drain the berries ; boil them soft, and, while hot, press and strain them through a jelly-bag. Put the juice on to boil, with a pound of sugar to every quart. Do not boil it longer than a quarter of an hour, or it will lose its fine colour. It should be boiled in an earthen preserving-pan. 1030. “ Quitten Gelee ”— Quince Jelly. Choose quinces that are quite ripe and yellow ; wash and wipe, but do not peel them. Slice them and take out the kernels ; put the slices in an earthen preserving-pan, shake and press them down. Pour in boiling water enough barely to cover the fruit. Boil it until the colour deep ns and it becomes quite soft. Finish as directed for apple jelly, using the same proportion of sugar. 1081. “ Birnen in Essiy ”— Pears in Vinegar. Winter bergamot, or other small pears, must be peeled smooth, leaving on the stems ; and either left whole or halved and the kernels taken out. To every pound of pears, allow half a pint of vinegar, six ounces of sugar, a stick of cinna- mon, and a dozen cloves. Boil these ingredients a few minutes, then lay in the pears, and let them simmer till a pin goes easily through them, but not long enough to soften them. Take out the pears, drain them on a sieve, and lay them in the jars. Boil down the syrup thicker, and when cold pour it over the fruit. Should the syrup become thin in a few days, boil it over again. If there is not enough to cover the pears, make moi’e, as above directed. 1032. “ Kuschen in Essig ”—Clicn-ies in Vinegar. To eveiy pound of cherries allow half a pint of vinegar, half a pound of loaf sugar, a drachm of stick cinnamon, and half a dozen cloves. Boil sugar, vinegar, and spices together for ten minutes. Take off their stems and put the cherries in a jar, pour the vinegar and spices warm over them, and cover at once with paper. Next day boil the syrup over