404 Appendix. “I forgot to say that, at the end of six months, Rothschild’s place was offered me. At first I refused, but, Prince Ester- hazy not coming to'Paris, one of my kind protectors, the Prince Louis de Rohan, presented me to Madame Rothschild. I ac- cepted the place. Tlie Duke de Perigord wished at this time that I should present my “ Culinary Architecture,” magni- ficently bound by Thouvenin, to the Tuileries. The result was as I had foreseen—I only received cold compliments. The reward of the public was somewhat different. My “ Projets d’Architecture,” though containing only rough sketches, were examined and approved. At the moment I write, 18.33, here are nearly five years that I am with the Rothschilds. I have since refused the service of the Spanish embassy and of Prince Esterhazy, who came to Paris with the kindly thought of taking me back to England. M. Esterhazy was the intimate friend of George IV.; he dined weekly with his majesty. It was diffi- cult for these two eminent gourmets, for these two personages, full of taste, to pass some hours together without talking of cookery. One day his Majesty asked the Prince where I was. ‘ At Rothschild’s,’ said Esterhazy, ‘ and in that house is the very best table in Paris.’ ‘ I believe it,’ said George IV., ‘ since Carerae has the management of it.’ These words were repeated to me by a person of eminent rank who was present. George IV. was so perfect a connoisseur in all that related to the table, that I had a right to feel flattered by his approval. These words of kindliness were in conformity with everything which the Regent had the goodness to say to me ten years before— to every communication he caused to be mside to me in the in- terval. Magnificent conditions were now proposed to me on the part of George IV.; my salary w.as to be doubled, and that salary was to be converted into a pension for life at the end of a few years. But, in the interval between the fashionable sea- sons, London and the country-houses of the three kingdoms were insupportable to me. Notwithstanding the kindness and friendship of this royal prince, I experienced while in his ser- vice so profound a melancholy and ennui, that I was forced to return to Paris to resume the composition of my works. It is not, therefore, to be wondered that I refused with regret, though with gratitude, ofl’ers of recall to the service of George IV. In the first place, my situation at Rothschild’s suited me perfectly; and, in the second place, I was somewhat wearied