i82 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, quite cold, cut little klosse from the mass with a cutter or spoon. Have ready a couple of heaten eggs. Dip the klosse into the egg, and lay them carefully into the scalding soup the moment it is poured into the tureen. 654. “ Brod Klosse ”— Bread Klosse. Two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, the yolks of four eggs, a tablespoonful of flour, three-quarters of a pound of grated white bread, a teaspoonful of salt, and a little nutmeg or gi’ated ginger. Mix all well together. Whisk the egg whites to a stiff snow, and stir it into the mass. Let the klosse he no larger than an egg. Boil them a quarter of an hour, slowly, in milk or water, salted. 655. “ Krdutem Klosse ”— Green Herb Klosse. Take a good handful of mixed herbs, such as parsley, chervil, celerj'-tops, green onion, and verj^ little tarragon, with double the quantity of spinach-leaves. Throw them into boiling water enough to cover them, let them boil till soft, then put them into cold water with some salt in it. Strain and chop them quite fine. Mix them with anj- white forcemeats already seasoned; there must be enough herbs to give a nice green colour. Mould the klosse with two tea- spoons, remembering to dip them in water or broth each time. Boil them a few minutes in broth or salt water, and serve with soup or fricassee. 656, “ Geriihrte Klosse"—or Xockerl. Stir a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream. Add by degrees the yolks of four eggs, and whites of two ; then a quarter of a pound of flour, a little salt, and a grate of nut- meg. Make this two or three hours before dinner time. Put it on a flat dish, so that the mass may be about half an inch thick. Set it in a cool jdace. When near serving time, take up small klosse with a spoon dipped in water. L)\y them in boiling broth, milk, or water a little salted. Boil them gently from five to eight minutes; take them up with a strainer, grate a little cheese over them, and serve directly. 657. “ Urfen," or “ BiirmMusse"— Yeast Klosse. Mix with a pound of flour, a cup of lukewarm milk, two or three tablcspoonfuls of good yeast, a quarter of a