11 SOUPS. ounces of rice in a small stew-pan to cook soft in some of the bouillon. When the fowl is done tender, take it out and strip all the meat off the bones. Return the latter to the soup-pot. Cut the breast, when cool, into thin slices, and these across in strips as narrow as possible. Pound a good handful of blanched almonds, then the rest of the fowl, with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs and the rice. Mix and thin the mass with cream or good milk, and work it through a sieve. Let the bouillon boil down to three quarts or less ; strain it, and skim the fat off. Set it again over the fire to become hot, and stir in the pounded mass. Make the tureen quite hot, lay in the little strips of breast, with a few slices of hot, buttered toast, of light roll, and pour in the soup scalding hot. 34. “ Siippe niit Puree a la Peine ”— Potage a la Peine. {No. 8.) Boil a fowl, and two rolls with the crust pared off, in a white, well-seasoned soup. When quite tender, cut up and pound the meat of the fowl in a mortar, with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs. Mix in the boiled bread, and pass it through a sieve. Return it to the soup ; make this scalding hot, but avoid boiling again. Pour it on thin slices of toasted roll in the tureen. 35. “ Suppe a la Peine von Puter oder Kapaun”—Potage d la Peine of Turkey or Capon. {No. 4.) When the greater part of a turkey remains from the previous day’s dinner, this and the broth in which it was boiled will give an excellent “ Potage a la Reine.” Having stripped the meat from the bones, put the latter into the bouillon with an onion, a small faggot of herbs, a few sprigs of parsley, a quarter of a small lemon-peel, a tui-nip sliced, a blade of mace, and a quarter of a pound of rice. Let it stew down to about three pints, while you blanch two ounces of almonds and pound them smooth, adding and pounding with them the white meat of the turkey and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs; or substitute for the almonds a pint of chestnuts, boiled, peeled, and pounded. Add a cup of cream, and work the mass through a wire sieve, thinning