310 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 1112. Himbccr Soft ”—Raspberry Syrup. Pick very ripe raspberries, mash them with a spoon, let them stand a night in a cool place. Next day press out the juice, and to every pint of this allow half a pound of loaf sugar. Put both together over the fire, and after the mixture has come to a boil, let it continue boiling slowly for half an hour. Skim it well, or, when you have taken it from the fire, give it 'a stir, and any scum will sink to the bottom. When quite cold, fill small bottles and cork them well. 1113. “ Himbeer Soft”—Raspberry Syrup. {Xo.2.) Mash and press the raspberries; let them stand a few hours, then strain them. Allow half a pound of sugar to each pint of juice, and boil it at once. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, skimming it well. When cold, fill small dry bottles, use only new corks, and stand the bottles upright in a cool place. A little fine and fresh salad oil poured on the top before corking is said to insure the keeping of the syrup any length of time. 1114. “ Joliannisbecr Soft”—Red Currant Syrup. Pick and crush red currants with the hands. Let them stand a few hours, then strain them through a jelly-bag. AUow two pounds of sugar to three pints of juice. Proceed as directed for raspberry syrup. When much raspberry or currant jam is made, either fruit is so juicy that a third of it may well be spared. Lade out some as soon as the fruit has boiled thin, and let it drain through a fine sieve. Do not press the fruit, but re- turn this to the preserving-pan. Give the syrup a few minutes’ boil, and finish as directed in the first recipe. A mixture, half currants and half raspberries, renders a delicious and useful syrup for cooling drinks and other uses. 1115. “ Man del Milch ”—Almond Milk. Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, with half a dozen bitter ones. Pound them to a pulp in a marble mortar, adding now and then a spoonful of water, to prevent the almonds from oiling. Add a quart of water tn them and stir well. Let the infusion stand half an hour in a cool place, then strain it through a napkin and sweeten to taste.