GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. go 347. “ Klopps ” — Collops. {No. 4.) Klopps of the usual ingredients may be formed round and flat, dipped in egg and bread-crumbs, and fried in butter a delicate brown. Serve with any approved sauce or gravy, and a nice vegetable. Note.—The chives or onion may be left out of either, and the klopps, well seasoned, may be served as hors d’ceuvres or entrees. 348. “ Oxenfleiscli Cotelettes”—Beef Cutlets. To every pound of lean beef, add a quarter of a pound of fat; suet will do. Mince it very fine, adding sufficient salt. Form small flat cakes, egg and crumb them, and fry them in butter a nice brown on both sides. 349. “ Gebratene Fricandelle'’—Fricandelles. Mince a pound and a half of beef with a quarter of a pound of suet or fat bacon, quite fine. Add four well-beaten eggs, three ounces of grated bread, salt and nutmeg. Mix the whole into a smooth mass with a little water. Form smooth oblong balls, roll them in raspings or grated bread, and fry them in boiling butter a delicate colour on all sides. After frying, lay them a little apaz't in a baking-dish, with a cup of water, and put them in the oven to soak through, but not to brown deeper. Baste occasionally, and let them crisp. 350. “ Polnisches Zrazxj ”— Polish Sraszt/. Take the underloin from a surloin of beef. Cut it through into cutlets a bare inch thick. Beat them with a cutlet bat or the blade of a beavj' knife till they are about half the thickness. Trim them a nice round shape. If underloin is not to be had, a fine rump-steak will do. Cut it into small round portions and beat them well, as above. Make a good- sized piece of butter quite hot in a stew-pan. Lay in the slices, with salt, pepper, a pinch of pounded cloves, and an onion or some shalots that have been minced and delicately browned in butter. Also, if not objected to, a very small clove of garlic pounded or bruised fine. Cover close, and let the sraszy steam in their own gravy till tender. Turn them when one side is coloured, and taste them occasionally. If the gravy dries away, add a little stock or soup. When