225 PASTIES. yellow colour, take it out of the oven. Pour the rest of the gravy in with a funnel through the hole in the lid. If the liver is not used apart, cook and slice it with the rest. 607. “ Gefl’ugel Pastcten"—Pasties of Poultry or Game Birds. The larger poultry, both tame and wild birds, are very similarly prepared for pasties. For large pasties, of capons, pheasants, fowls, &c., cut off legs and wings at the joints ; then bone the birds, keeping the skin and flesh parts as whole as possible. Fill them with small birds, boned and stuffed with suitable forcemeat, and fill up any spaces with forcemeat; then sew and skewer them, giving them their natural shape as nearly as possible, and lard the breasts. Crush the bones, and put them and the giblets in a stew-pan that will hold the fowls. Pour in enough cold water to cover the bones; throw in a faggot of herbs, salt, pepper, a little spice, lemon-peel, and any’^ind of roots to flavour. Lay in the fowls, cover close, and leave them to simmer over a slow fire till they are steamed tender, then take them out, add more water if requisite, and leave the bones to stew thoroughly. Lay the birds either in a raised crust, or in a richer paste in a raised form or dish, with forcemeat, trufiles, and bacon between. Always make a hole in the centre of the top crust. When the pasty is nicely baked a pale color, see that the gravy is rich and piquant. Add lemon-juice, salt, pepper, and a little white wine if approved. Skim the fat off', and pour it into the pasty with a funnel. 808. “ Geflugel Pasteten ”— Bird Pasties. {No. 2.) ^Whether game or tame birds they may be treated in detail as directed for “ Gans Pastete,” using the seasonings that are most appropriate. This is by far the most economical way of gaining all the substance, strength, and flavom' from poultry. Pigeons, partridges, and other small birds, may be pre- pared nearly alike. Take, for instance, the following :— 809. “ Rehhuner or P'eldhimer Pastete ”—Partridge Pasty. Hub the birds inside and out with salt, pepper, and very little pounded cloves mixed. Lay rashers of bacon in a stew- pan with a little water, put the birds in, cover the pan, and let them steam till tender, but not too much done. Make a force- Q