293 PICKLES. larger than the top of the vessel and fill it with mustard-seed enough to lie nearly half an inch thick over the pickles. 1045. “ Riissische Ourken”—Russian Cucumbers. Wash two dozen of large cucumbers, full grown, but with- out seeds. Sprinkle plenty of salt over, and let them lie two days; then wipe and pack them in an earthen vessel, dis- persing between them a pound of peeled shalots and an ounce of garlic divided. Lay on the top a handful of basili- cum-leaves, the same of dill and tarragon-leaves, a pod of chillies, or a sprinkling of cayenne pepper. Pour enough boiling vinegar over to cover them. Tie over the jars with bladder or double paper. In a fortnight pour ofl‘ the vinegar, add a little more to it, boil again, and pour it cold over the cucumbers. They will be ready in a month or six weeks. 1046. “ Rathe Ruben einzumachen ”— Beetroot, Wash beetroots, but do not cut or break their skins. Boil them quite whole till moderately soft. When cold, peel and slice them. Lay the slices in glass or other jars. Boil vinegar with a few bruised cloves, some sliced horseradish, and whole pepper ; let it get cold and pour it over the beet. 1047. “ Rothe Rube7i einzumachen’'—Beetroot. (lYo. 2.) Boil and slice the beetroot as above. Strew caraway- seeds between the slices, and cover them with cold vinegar. 1048. “ Pfeffer Gurken”—Pejjper Gherkins. These should not be larger than a little finger. Sprinkle salt over and let them lie twenty-four hours, then wipe them dry and lay them in jars with old pepper, mace, shalots, a few tarragon and bay-leaves between. Boil vinegar, and pour it hot over the gherkins. In three days pour off and boil the vinegar again. Pour it cold over the gherkins and cover them close. 1049. “ Sen/ Gurken Hot Pickle. Peel the largest sized cucumbers, cut them through length- ways, halve them and scrape out the seeds. Pare off the sharp edges to give them a round appearance. Boil water with salt, lay in the cucumbers, let them boil a minute.