GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 124 459. “ Rouladen von Schweimjlcisch"—Rolled Pork Steakt. Cut thin small steaks of young pork ; salt and pepper them; roll them in neat oval forms, and bind leaves of green sage round them. Put them in a stew-pan, with very little water, and as this dries away, let them brown in their o^vn gravy, turning and basting occasionally. Squeeze lemon-juice over them when nearly done. Serve in their own sauce, garnished with slices of lemon. 460. “ Schinkensclmittchen"— Ham Fritters. The remains of a cooked ham, when no more good slices can be cut from it, are proper for this dish. Mince the ham, with a due proportion of its fat, quite fine. If you have a good plateful of the mince, mix it well with two eggs, a cup of fine bread-crumbs, and some white pepper. Beat two eggs into a quarter of a pint of milk. Cut little round slices of French roll, and pour over them as much of the milk and egg as they will absorb ; then fry them in butter a pale yellow, or just long enough to set the custard throughout them. Spread on both sides a thick layer of the ham forcemeat; smooth them with a knife ; strew wuth grated rusks or bread, and fry them pale in butter. They are good as a side-dish, or to hand after the soup. 461. “ Schweins Coteleltcs ”—Pork Chops. Divide the loin by each rib bone. Chop away the back- bones, and take ofi" any superfluous fat. Beat the cutlets to make them tender. Season with salt and pepper, and dip them in egg and bread-crumbs. Fry them in butter a pale brown. Or, when you have beaten them, dip them in hot butter, coat them with grated crumbs, and broil them on the gridiron. 462. “ Gefullter Schiveiuskopf ”— Stii/fcd Pip's Head. Cut open a fresh pig’s head longways, underneath ; take out all the bones carefully, without cutting through the skin. Spread open the head, with its skin side under. Strew salt and pepper over. Make a well-seasoned forcemeat of minced bacon and liver, onion in moderation, a little green sage, thyme, and basilicum, bread-crumbs, salt, pepi^r, and a grate of nutmeg. Use an egg or two to bind it. I\Iix well, and spread it a good half-inch thick over the head ; lay on this.