SALADS. 77 Throw in some sprigs of watercresses, and on these strew lightly the young leaves of the nasturtium, with enough cress to fill the howl rather high. Put round the edge of the bowl a wreath of nasturtium-leaves, laid one a little over the other. Inside this, put a wreath of the flowers ; within these, a wreath of slices of hard-boiled eggs. Then put a pretty tuft of the leaves and flowers in the centre. If this salad is not to be eaten as soon as made, put no dressing in the bowl, hut serve with either of the salad creams. The bouquet salad is as good a relish with various meats as it is a refreshing ornament to the table. 297. “ Briinnen oder Garten Kresse”—Brook or Garden Cress Salad. Use any of the salad-creams with this. Garden-cress should be sown about anywhere, even on flower-beds. The green tufts look pretty all the year round. The roots must not be pulled up for salad, but only the middling-sized leaves cut off. 298. “ Kohl Salat”— Winter Cabbage Salad. Boil an equal quantity of white and red close cabbage in plenty of water, each colour separate. They must only boil about five minutes. Then throw them, also apart, into cold water. Let them drain well. Cut the thin leaves into very narrow shreds. The ribs of the leaves must all be left out, as they are too hard for salad. Arrange the salad in alternate tufts of white and red, either in a dish or bowl. Garnish it in any approved way, and give it either No. 2 or 4 of the salad-creams when served. 299. “ Wdsser Kohl Salat ”— White Cabbage Salad. In autumn, when this cabbage is tender, with leaves thin and white, cut out the stalks and ribs ; put a number of the thinnest leaves together, and cut them into very narrow strips. Throw them lightly into the salad-howl. Cut two or three thin rashers of rather fat ham or bacon into very small dice ; fiy them till they begin to brown ; then take the pan from the fire, pour into it some vinegar, and the same quantity of water; add salt and pepper, and pour all warm over the salad. Serve with hot potatoes.