MEATS. 87 338. “ Roulade von Oxenjieisch Kalt ”— Rolled Beef Cold. Choose a piece of thin flank or tops of the ribs for this. Rub it with a mixture of three parts salt and one of salt- petre ; turn and rub it every day for nearly a week. Beat it out flat for cooking; and spread over it a thick layer of seasoning, composed of parsley, onion or chives, lemon-peel, pepper, a little spice, and some bacon minced fine. Thin rashers of raw ham or bacon may be used instead of minced. Leave out, or add, any kind of seasoning. Roll and bind it in a nice shape. Cover close, and let it simmer three hours, in a deep stew-pan that should be just large enough to hold it, half covered with water; in which put salt, celery, or any roots and herbs to flavour. When done, press it between plates, under a weight, to get quite cold before the binding is removed. 339. “ O.eenjieisch in Bier (/eddmpft ”— Beef Stewed with Beer. A piece of brisket, if not too fat, is good this way ; but a pai’t of the round is better. Put in a saucepan two carrots, two onions, two bay-leaves, a rasher or two of bacon, a small sprig of tarragon, salt, pepper, and a little vinegar. Lay in the beef, with a pint of beer and a pint of water. Cover close, and let it stew slowly three hours at least. Take out the meat, skim the fat off the sauce, and thicken it with potato meal or corn-flower. Strain and serve it with the meat. 340. “ Rhidfleisch Rouletten ”— Beef Olives, or Beef Roulettes. Have steaks cut thin. Beat them well. Cut pieces three or four inches in diameter. Sprinkle over them some chopped sardines, onion, parsley, salt, and pepper. Lay over this a thin slice of bacon or ham on each. Roll them egg-shaped, and bind them round with twine or thread. Set a stew-pan with butter on the fire. Lay the roulettes close together, to fry a nice pale brown, turning them on all sides. When done, take them carefully up and keep them warm, while you pour ofi" the superfluous fat; dredge in some flour to thicken, and let it brown. Add a little wine, a couple of bay-leaves, some lemon sliced, three cloves, salt, pepper, and broth or