PASTIES. 223 minced or pounded together to a smooth paste, by a mincing machine if possible. Butter a raised pie form, line it with a thin paste ; lay at the bottom some thin rashers of ham or bacon, spread over these half of the forcemeat mass, lay on this the truffled livers, and on them the rest of the forcemeat, with the cuttings of the strips of truffles here and there, so that near a pound and a half of truffles in all are used. Lay the rashers of bacon on the top of the forcemeat, cover close with the paste hd, make a hole in the centre, ornament the top with very thin paste leaves, brush over with egg, and bake it in a moderate oven two hours. Be cai’eful that it does not colour brown. Let it get quite cold in the form; it had better remain a night in it, and next day stand the form in hot water for a minute or two before turning out the pasty, then brush it all over with egg to glaze it. 803. “ Odnseleber Pastete”—■ Strasbourg Pate. (No. 3.) Mince fine a pound of fresh pork, fat and lean together, and half a pound of bacon. Mince two ounces of sardines, cleared of skin and bone, and also a small shalot; add an ounce of capers, the juice of a lemon, and a third of its peel grated. Make a little butter hot in a stew-pan, and put all the above articles in to steam until the meat is cooked, stir- ring repeatedly that it may not brown. Take it from the fire and stir into it half a pint of thick sour cream, half a glass of white wine, a tablespoonful of vinegar, ample salt and pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and two beaten eggs. Mix all these well till quite smooth. Spread half of it over the bottom of the pasty. Cut two large goose-livers in slices and lay them in. Pound three cloves quite fine, mix them with a small teaspoonful of white pepper and twice as much salt, sprinkle this all over the liver slices, spread over them the other half of the forcemeat, and put on the paste lid. Finish as directed for the preceding one. 804. “ Gdnseleber Pasteto"—Strasbourg Pate. {No. 4^.) For the forcemeat, mince to a paste a pound and a quar- ter of veal and a quarter of a pound of fat bacon. Mix in an ounce and a half of minced sardines, and the same of chopped capers. Add the juice of a lemon, some of its peel