13 SOUPS. the water away, and. set them on with fresh warm water; let them boil till soft; then strain and add them to any kind of meat soup. Thus prepared, lentils are especially good in soup made with a ham-bone, as directed in the following “ Bohnen soup. 40. “ Bohnen Suppe mit Geraiichertem. Schiceinefleisch ” — Bean Soup with Ham or Bacon. About a pound of lean ham or bacon must be well soaked. Pare away the under yellow skin, and boil it an hour. Meanwhile, have boiled some white beans (the kidney or French beans) quite soft. They must have been soaked the night before. Mash half of them; pass them through a coarse sieve and add them to the boiling bacon, with an onion, or chives, celery, chervil, &c. Take out the bacon ; peel the rind off, cut up the meat into thin slices ; I’eturn this, with the uubruised beans, to the pot, and give all a boil up together. The same quantity of fresh or salted pork, unsmoked, is, by some, preferred. 41. Boluicn Suppe"—Bean Soup. [Xo. 2.) Soak and boil half a pint of the little French beans, with the skin on. Have a piece of butter or slice of fat bacon in a stew-pan, and when it is melted, dredge in as much flour as it will absorb, and add to it some thinly sliced onions. "When this is delicately browned, strain the well- boiled beans, working them through a sieve, and add them to the thickening, as also the bean water, and some broth or soup. Season with vinegar, salt, and pepper; let it boil; then pour it over slices of toast in the tureen. Some of the beans may bo put in unmashed, if the skins are quite soft. 42. “Carfiol Suppe ”— Cauliflower Soup. Make a clear white soup, of beef, mutton, or veal, properly seasoned with salt and white pepper. Mix two or three spoonfuls of flour in milk to thicken the soup to the consist- ence of cream. Break up a cauliflower into small tufts; boil them in salted water; drain carefully and add them unbroken to the soup when about to serve. If extra rich- ness is desired, put the yolks of two or three eggs, stiiTcd with a little cream, in the tureen.