8o GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, then carefully mixed together with a finely toinced onion, oil, vinegar, pepper, salt if requisite, and cream or milk to moisten. 309. “ Fisch Salat ”—Fish Salad. Cold fish of any kind must he divided neatly in flakes. A few shi-imps or oysters may be added, and a nice portion of hard-boiled eggs chopped small. All lightly stirred up together, with some thin slices of pickled gherkins or other green pickles. Pour over a salad cream, and garnish with parsley and lemon slices. 310. “ Sardellen Salat ”— Sardine Salad. Rub two or three sardines in a mortar with the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs. Add equal quantities of vinegar, vdne, and cream or oU—about two tablespoonfuls of each— a little cayenne or white pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Break up remains of any cold fish with forks, that it may be flaky. Spread a layer of the fish on a dish ; strew over it some capers and thin slices of pickled gherkins, then thin slices of smoked or Bologna sausage, and on the top, neatly arranged, sardines in halves, opened the long way and the bones drawn out, if they are not dissolved. Stir up the cream you have made, pour it over the dish, and garnish with sliced eggs, a wreath of any fresh salad, and slices of lemon, 311. “ Hummer Salat mit Caviar Schnitten”—Lobster Salad with Caviar Sippets. Mix the soft part of the lobster in a basin, with the ingredients for salad cream No. 4, and add last the spawn of the lobster. Break up the white parts of the body and claws, and mix it with the rest in patches, that is, not thoroughly stirred together. Lay slices of hard eggs on the top, strew capers over, and hedge the dish with a border of three-cornered slices of toast, buttered and spread >vith caviar. 312. “ Lattich Salat, Warm ”—Lettuce Salad. Cut up good coss lettuce in the bowl. Fry little dice of bacon, with an onion minced fine. Do not let them brown, but just molt the bacon fat; then add vinegar, salt, and pepper to the bacon; pour the whole over the lettuce and