GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 98 Cover, and leave it to steam thus for a quarter of an hour, then add some brown thickening, the juice of a lemon, and a cup of sour cream or some broth, and either a spoonful of capers or a little green pickle chopped small. Simmer a few minutes, and dish with a %vreath of fried potatoes round. 377. “ Schlachtbraten”—A Larded Beef Disk. Take for this a piece of the round; remove the skin, rub the meat over with salt, pepper, and a dozen pounded cloves. Lard it on the top thickly with nice bacon. Dredge it well with flour. Make a good-sized piece of butter hot in a stew- pan. Lay in the beef with an onion or two, a couple of bay- leaves, and the juice of a lemon, with a small piece of its peel. Cover close, and let the meat simmer till nicely browned, turning occasionally. MTien done, pour over some sour cream or milk. Add a sugar browning to the sauce ; serve it over the meat, and garnish with slices of lemon, one of which serve on each plate. 378. “Binder Cotelettes ”—Beef Cutlets {Viennese tray.) Choose a part of a well-hung loin of beef; have the back- bone chopped away, and the ribs chopped short ofi" as far as the fillet of meat extends. Divide these into cutlets an inch and a half thick; beat them out thinner with the chopper- blade or cutlet bat; sprinkle with salt and pepper, dredge them with flour, and fry them w'ith butter a nice brown ; or having beaten and seasoned them, dip them in fresh oil or warmed butter, and broil them nicely. Make butter hot in a stew-pan, lay in the cutlets with enough broth or gravy to cover them, and an onion and any other vegetable to flavour the sauce, such as a grated carrot and some celerj-. Let all simmer gently till the vegetables are soft. Take out the cutlets carefully, skim ofl' the fat, and pass the sauce through a coarse sieve ; add to it a glass of white wine and a little sour cream if at hand ; stir until it boils, add a good spoon- ful of capers, and if necessary some brooming. Lay in the cutlets to get hot. "When you dish them divide them in proper portions to serve; lay these in their original form on the dish, put a little sauce on each, and the rest in a sauce tureen. Ser\e with potatoes fried in slices.