GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 312 sorts are esteemed for general excellence. Mocha, the vanilla of coffees, may be mixed advantageously with the same quantity of either East or West Indian, or South American of more moderate price. Reliable vendors of raw coffee know the kinds to he recommended for any peculiarity either of strength or delicacy of aroma and flavour. 1117. “ Kaffee zu Brcnnen, oder Rosten"—To Roast Coffer. Before roasting, many prefer to wash the berries. They must be thrown into lukewarm water, washed rapidly between the hands, the water changed once, the berries rinsed again, then strained, rubbed between a clean cloth and put to dry in the sun or beside the fire. This washing does no harm, and certainly cleanses the coffee from dust or colouring, and also serves to prove the quality. The berries that float on the top of the water are not good. Instead of washing the coffee it may be cleansed by rubbing between two towels. The roasting of coffee requires care and attention ; its goodness greatly depends on this. If suflered to burn, its aroma is destroyed and it is made bitter and unwholesome. If not sufliciently bro-wned, neither the strength nor the aroma will be developed, and its taste will be most unpleasant. Examine the berries, pick out any black or discoloured ones and see that there is no stone among them. Have a clear fire, but not too fierce. Fill the drum half full. This must be constantly turned, but not too quickly, that the berries may be roasted equally. After about five minutes’ good heat, take the drum from the fire and shake it well. Open the slide to let the steam out. Return the drum to the heat, continue the turning, and after a short time again withdraw and shake it, then open it to see if the coffee is colouring properly. Should a strong smell of roasting and an apparent smoke escape, and should a slight crackling noise begin, take the drum from the fire, shake it for a minute, open the slide, and if the cofi'ee is too pale return it to the fire. When it has a fine cinnamon brown colour, turn it out on a large flat dish; spread it quite apart, and as soon as it is cold put it in a close-shutting canister, or cork it well in dry bottles. A spoonful of moist sugar thrown in with the berries, is said to improve the quality in roasting.