ii8 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, over a clear fire ; put some brown piquant sauce on a hot dish, and arrange the chops with a nice garnish on it. Or baste the chops with warmed butter, broil or fry them dry, and lay them on a dish of any young vegetables stewed. 448. “ Lamm Ragout viit Sauerampfer ”— Lamb Ragout with Sorrel. Put any parts of the fore quarter in a stew-pan with cold water, and let them come to a simmer; take up ten minutes after. Cut up the meat in neat slices. Put in a stew-pan an onion sliced, a carrot, some celery, parsley, a sprig of basilicum, two or thi’ee cloves, and a piece of butter. "When these have steamed a few minutes, dredge some flour in, add some of the water in which the lamb was bleached, and let it simmer to a creamy sauce. Season with salt and pepper ; strain and pour it over the lamb, in another stew-pan. When the meat is done tender, take it out; stir the yolks of two or three eggs and some sour cream into the sauce. Wash a few handfuls of sorrel-leaves and strip them from the stems; put them in a stew-pan with a little butter, to steam soft, then add them to the sauce. Pour this again over the meat and make the ragout quite hot. 444. “ Lamm Fricassee mit Capern"—Fricasseed Lamb with Cajwrs. Breast of lamb is preferable. Cut it into small square pieces, and put them to steam with a piece of butter, an onion, a sprig of basilicum, two bay-leaves, four cloves, some white pepper, and salt. Cover close and let all steam half an hour, shaking it occasionally. Add a little warm water and lefive it covered to simmer an hour. Strain the sauce from the herbs; thicken it with flour. Add a tablespoonful of capers, and stir the sauce into the meat. Serve garnished with slices of lemon. 445. “ Latmnriicken trie Rehziemer”—Saddle of Lamb Venison Fashion. Hang a saddle of lamb as long as it will keep, having previously dqsted it all over with black pepper. After it has hung, chop together some shalots, a good-sized sprig of green rosemary, a small one of tarragon, or only a few small leaves of the latter strong herb, and a sprig of marjoram. Poimd