“ KLOSSE.” 179 eg". Boil them a quarter of an hour in water, with a little salt. lu the meantime, melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan ; throw in a handful of crumbs, and let them crisp a pale brown. Take up the kldsse; cut them in halves ; lay the flat side downwards in the dish, and pour over the crumbs and oiled butter. Serve directly. 640. “ Bauern Kldsse ”—Fann-Jiouse Kldsse. Beat three eggs ; cut into little dice a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon ; fry this, and pour it over the eggs. Add half a pint of milk, and as much coarse flour and bread-crumbs as will bind the mass like a light dough. Boil small round kldsse in water with a little salt a quarter of an hour. 641. “ Bauern Kldsse"—Farm-house Kldsse. {No. 2.) Cut rashers of bacon or ham into little dice, and fry them, but not broAvn, with a minced onion. Pour over a pint of milk, and let it boil; then sprinkle in equal quantities of coarse oatmeal and mashed potatoes enough to form, with constant stin-ing, a stilf paste. Take it from the fire. Dip a spoon in hot butter as you fill it with egg-sized klosse; lay them on a buttered dish, and bake a pale brown in a quick oven. 642. “ Schwcmm Kldsse ”—Floating Kldsse. Six tablespoonfuls of flour, three eggs, and half a pint of milk stirred well. Put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, and let it melt; pour in the butter, and stir it constantly till it boils thick and ceases to hang on the sides of the pan ; then take it from the fire, and stir frequently till nearly cold. Stir into it three more eggs and a little salt. Spread the mass a good half-inch thick on a flat dish. When required for table, take up small kldsse with a spoon. Put them gently into boiling water to cook five minutes. Take them up with a strainer, and put them immediately into the tureen of soup. 643. “ B^ei8 Kldsse ”— Bice Kldsse. Swell a quarter of a pound of rice in as much broth or clear soup as it will absorb. Shake it up occasionally. It must remain dry, though soft. Let it cool, then mix it with an equal quantity of minced fowl or veal, a little parsley, lemon, salt, nutmeg, or any approved seasoning, and an egg