GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 262 Put honey and sugar in a stew-pan over the fire, and when it boils up throw in the almonds; let them simmer five minutes, then take the pan from the fire, put in the spice and peel; let it cool a little, then stir in the soda, next the mm, and lastly work in the flour. While this dough is stiU warm, roll it out as thin as possible ; cut oblong pieces, about four inches long and two broad ; lay them nearly close together on buttered or well-floured tins, and let them remain all night in a cool place. Bake them next day, after the bread, in a baker’s oven. They must not be done brown. As soon as they are taken out, draw a knife across the tins to divide them in the pieces above described, and when cold break them apart. Boil moist sugar in a little water, till it will draw into threads, glaze them on one side with this and let them dry. 924. “ Nurnherger LebkucJien ”— Nuremberg Gingerbread. A pound of fine flour, a pound of sifted sugar, a pound of almonds blanched and split, eight eggs, two ounces of candied orange, and the same of candied citron-peel, cut into small pieces, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a dozen cloves pounded, and a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda. The eggs must be well beaten, and stirred a quarter of an hour with the sugar, spice, and peel. Add the flour by de- grees, and when this is well mixed in, dissolve the soda in milk and stir it in. Lastly, put in the almonds. Cut wafer- paper into pieces four inches long and two wide, or twice this size; spread on these a layer of the mass as thin as possible, say, a quarter of an inch thick. Lay them on tins, and bake a pale colour in a slow oven. 926. “ Weisse Lebkuchen ”— Tl'/uVe Gingerbread, A pound of flour, half a pound of good white honey, half a pound of sifted sugar, two ounces of almonds blanched and sliced thin, two ounces of candied peel cut small, a dozen cloves pounded, and a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little milk. Proceed, and bake as in the preceding recipe. When baked a pale colour, let the cakes cool, and brush them over with a thin icing.