SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 255 901. “ Mandel Bretzeln ”—Almond Buns Are the same in all particulars as the “ hefen bretzelu,” but strew over them minced almonds and crushed sugar, when they are egged over, as you are about to bake them. The almonds and sugar should be about the size of pearl barley, and the form of each bretzel that of a new moon or crescent, tapering to a point at each end. 902. “ Hombim/er Bretzeln"—Horn burg Buns. An ounce and a half of sweet hard yeast, or a couple of large tablespoonfuls of fresh brewer’s yeast, must be stirred into a teacup of warm milk, mixed with half a pound of fine flour, and left to rise. Soften three-quarters of a pound of butter, add to it an ounce of powdered sugar, the yolks of six eggs, the whites of two, the grated peel of a small lemon, and a pinch of salt. Work into this a pound of flour, add the yeast dough, and beat it with the hand till bubbles form in the paste. It should be of the consistency of bread dough. Form bret- zeln about the length and thickness of a middle finger ; set them on a buttered tin, in a warm place to rise, and when they are nicely risen, brush them over with egg. Bake them a rich yellow colour-, and when cold, dredge them over with powdered sugar. 903. “ Zopfe ”— Twists. Three tablespoonfuls of yeast, or an ounce and a half of dried yeast stirred into a pint of warm milk; pour this into two pounds of flour, work it into a smooth dough, and set it to rise by warmth. Slice half a pound of butter in a pan ; beat this with four eggs and eight cloves finely pounded. Turn the dough into this pan, beat altogether thoroughly, and set it to rise again. Form twists of three long bars, pointed at the ends. Brush them over with egg, and bake a pale colour. 904. “ Pfitzauf”— Batter Puffs. Mix half a pound of flour, a pint of milk, five well-beaten eggs, and a quarter of a pound of warmed butter. Stir all briskly for ten minutes. Butter small pattypans. Fill them half full, and bake a nice yellow. When done strew powdered sugar and cinnamon over them.