286 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, clear, and to a jelly consistency. But if boiled too long, it injures both colour and flavour. 1021, “ Kirsch Marmelade ”— Cherry Marmalade, Whether made of sour or sweet cherries it is a fine preserve. Stone the cherries; crush the stones and boil them in a httle water till it has drawn out the flavour of the kernels. Put a little water into the preserving-pan with the fruit, and boil this to a mash ; then press it through a coarse sieve. Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Moisten the sugar with the kernel extract, and boil it to a syrup ; then add the fruit. Boil this until thick and smooth. Fill small pots, and tie them over when the jam is cold. 1022. “ Melonen einzumachen ”— To Preserve Melons. Having first divided them in quarters, peel the melons and take out the seeds. Cut them into slices two or three inches long and one broad. Pare off the edges to give them an oval shape. Boil down^the sugar, as directed, to clarify; lay in the melon slices to scald five minutes beside the fire, then set them away to get cold. They must be cooked in an earthen pan. Next day, take out the fruit and boU down the syrup. Lay the pieces of melon in glasses, and pour the syrup over. In three days drain away the syrup, and boil it down thicker ; pour it over the fruit, cover, and keep the glasses in a cool place. 1023. “Ananas einzumachen''— To Preserve Pine Apples. They may be peeled, sliced, and proceeded with as directed for apricots. When arranged in the glasses finally, pour on the top of each a spoonful of fine rum or arrack, and cover them with white paper dipped in the spirit, fitting the glasses ; then tie them over with bladder. 1024. “ Aepfel Gelee ”—Apple Jelly. Wash and wipe free from dust any fine-flavoured, sweet, juicy apples. Do not peel them, but cut each into half- quarters, leaving the cores. Put the slices in an earthen preserving-pan, shaking them well down. Pour over them boiling water enough to rise half the depth of the fruit. Boil it slowly, stirring often, until the apples begin to mash; then pour it into a jelly-bag, or press the fruit through a