2 74 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. sheet tin hot, then rub it over with white wax ; drop on this, with a teaspoon, little rocks of the snow, sift a little sugar over, and bake them in a rather slow oven. They must be merely tinged a cream colour. 974. “ Merejikeuor “ GefuUte Baisers”—Filled Meringuex. These are the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff snow, with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar. Or the previous baiser mass, laid in egg-shaped, large tablespoonfuls on a waxed tin, and just dried in a cooled oven. Proceed with them as with the above smaller ones, not forgetting to sift sugar over before baking. Avoid whipping or stirring too long as the sugar is being added, or the snow will lose its stiffness. When they are done, take them off the tin while hot, and carefully scoop out any soft part inside. Just before they ai’e sent to table, put a little fine preserve in each, and close two together. Or, whip a cup of good cream with sifted sugar flavoured with vanilla, or anything nice, and put it between two meringues. 975. “ Zivvnit Stengel ”— Cinnamon Sticks. Beat whites and yolks of two eggs, with half a pound of sugar, half an hour; add two ounces of pounded almonds, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, and twelve pow- dered cloves; then stir in well, by degrees, half a pound of fine flour. Eoll out, with the assistance of a butter-spade, little long sticks, and bake them on buttered tins a cinnamon colour. 976. “ilfa/ceu”—Sniall Droj) Cakes. Half a pound of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, stirred half an hour; then add six ounces of flour, the grated peel of half a lemon, an ounce of candied orange and an ounce of candied lemon-peel cut thin. Mix all well, dredge a tin with flour, drop little cakes on it, and bake them in a moderate oven a delicate bro'vvu. 977. “ Bclgraden Brod ”— Belgrade Bar.<t. Blanch half a pound of almonds, cut them up the size of split peas, strew them on a tin, and colour them a pale brown. Stir half a pound of sugar and two eggs a quarter of an hour; add a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, the finely