GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 168 604. ‘‘ Apfehinen Kalteschale ”— Orange Kalteschale. (JVo. 2.) Peel off the yellow rind of half-a-dozen oranges as thin as possible; throw the peels into half a pint of water, with plenty of sugar, and when this is dissolved add half a pint of white wine. Peel the white off and shce the oranges thin. Lay them in a glass dish, one half over the other in a ring, -with sugar strewn between and over. Put a few slices in the centre, and then pour over the syrup, leaving the yellow peel as garnish. Set the dish in a cool place till wanted. Hand sponge-cake or fancy biscuits when served. 605. “ Aprikosen Kalteschale ”— Apricot Kalteschale. Skin the apricots and take out the stones, break these and boil the keniels with the fruit, in sufficient water and sugar, till soft. Put half of it in a bowl and strain the other half through a sieve. Add to this an equal quantity of white Avine, SAveeten to taste, and add it to the fi'uit. Let it get cold, and serve with rusks or sponge-cake. A stick of cinnamon might be boiled Avith the fruit. 606. “ Erdheer Kalteschale ”— Strawberry Kalteschale. Mash the strawberries Avith a fork; strew sugar over and let them stand an hour or tAVO. Add AA'hite wine enough to thin the fruit; and, if preferred smooth, pass it through a sieve. Put it in a cold place till served, and then garnish Avith Savoy biscuits or toasted sippets of light roll. 607. “ Erdheer Kalteschale"— Strawberry Kalteschale. (No. 2.) Small strawberries may be used. Take three pints, and pick out a pint of the best; sprinkle plenty of sugar over and put them in a cool place. Mash the other two pints quite smooth, adding a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the juice of a lemon, and a pint of light AA’iue. Stir well, and then strain this over the unbroken straAA'berries. Serve it in saucers, Avith sponge-cake or dessert biscuits handed. 608. “ Ilimbeer Kalteschale ”— Ka.spbern/ Kalteschale. Mash raspberries quite smooth; strcAV ample sugar over, and set them by in a cold place for an hour or tAvo. To a quart of raspbciTics add a pint of Avino and a pint of water in the boAvl or tureen in Avhich they are to be served. ^Yhen