lo GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. this, and mix with it the pounded meat. Give it one boil up, and serve with “ Huhner Klosse.” Observe.—Any kind of seasoning must be boiled with the bones. Herbs, vegetables, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, &c. 81. “ Suppe mit Puree von Wild Geflii/jel oder Wildpret”— Soup uith Puree of Game. Strip the meat from the bones of any remains of game. Hare also is especially good. Pound it in a mortar with a slice of toasted bread and the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs. Break up the bones and stew them in brown, well-seasoned soup. Put some of the bastings or drippings of the game roast in a stew-pan; di'edge in a tablespoonful of flour, and add the pounded meat. Cover, and let it steam while the bones are stewing. Strain these off, stir in the soup to the pounded meat, and strain all together. Cut into little strips or flakes any tender breast meat, and give it a simmer in the soup before serving. Forcemeat balls, delicately browned, or stewed mush- rooms, may be added; as also thin slices of toasted roll, or other light bread. 82. “ Puree Suppe ‘ d la Peine ’ ”— Potape d la Peine. A fowl, two or three pounds of veal, an onion stuck with a dozen cloves, and h^f a pound of rice, must be boiled gently in clear white broth or water. When the meat is done take out the veal and fowl, as also the onion. Clear the meat from the bones, cutting OS’ the breast in thin slices, and divide these into little narrow strips an inch or two long. Pound the rest of the meat to a smooth paste ; moisten this with cream, milk, or clear broth. Work it through a wire sieve and add it to the rice soup. Season with salt, nut- meg, and, if approved, a httle flnely minced chives or parsley. Yolks of two or throe eggs in the tureen, stirred as the scalding soup is poured in, are a great improvement. 88. “ Puree d la Peine ”— Potage d la Peine. (No. 2.) An excellent “ Potage a la Roine ” is prepared as follows. Boil together an old fowl, three pounds of veal, and three pounds of beef, in six quarts of water. Skim it well, and add two turnips, a head of celery, and an onion. Put two