lOI MEATS. peel, an onion, four cloves, salt, and pepper. Cover and let it stew in this gravy some time, put in a thickening of a tablespoonful of flour and milk, or water, and brown the sauce with sugar if required. Strain the gravy for serving. Sour cream poured over as basting is very good. Garnish with lemon slices and parsley. 385. “ Saurer Kalbsschlegel oder Schuller ”—Leg or Shoulder of Veal Marinaded, Lay the veal for a couple of days in a deep dish, with half a lemon sliced, two or three bay-leaves, salt, pepper, and a wineglass of vinegar. Baste it with its marinade several times and turn it. Lard it before dressing. Bake it with butter in the tin or dish, and a cup of water. When pale brown, and half done, add the marinade. Baste it often after this. Strain the gravy and take the fat ofi" at last. During the baking, enough water must be added by small degrees to give a nice gravy. 386. “ Kalbsbraten in Buttemilch ”— Veal in Buttermilk. If you wish to keep veal from four to eight days, lay it in butter-milk enough to cover it, changing the milk every other day or two. Do not take out the veal until about to roast it; then wipe it dry, and baste it over with hot butter ; salt and pepper it. Bake it in a deep stew-pan, with rashers of bacon, and suitable herbs for seasoning. Use milk instead of water to steam it in after browning, and baste it fre- quently. 387. “Kalbsschlegel, Kalt rnit Aspic"—Cold Boast Veal in Jelly. Take the hones out of the shoulder or leg of veal, and give it a nice oval form with binding or small skewers. Cut thin slices of raw fat bacon and lean ham; roll them up separately the size of a little finger. Make holes in the veal with a pointed stick ; pepper and salt the rolled ham and bacon, and lard the veal alternately with them ; making each hole in the meat as you go on. Lay some rashers of bacon at the bottom of a deep casserole, with two or three calves’ feet cut up, an onion, a couple of carrots, salt, pepper, half a pint of white Khine wine, or hock, a pint of good stock, a quarter of a pint of vinegar, and a little—very