253 KUCHEN. 89G. “ Brioche, or Projiheten Kitchen ”—Brioche. Weigh a pound and a half of flour. Mix two ounces of yeast with a cup of warm milk, and stir it into a quarter of the flour; there must be milk enough to make this a soft dough. Set it to rise. Put the rest of the flour on a paste- board, make a hollow in the middle, slice a pound of butter in small pieces, throwing them into the flour. Break ten eggs into the hollow of the flour. Sprinkle over an ounce of sifted sugar and half an ounce of salt. Add about a tea- cupful of milk, sufficient to work the whole into a fine smooth dough. Knead it well, and when the yeast sponge is risen, add this to the other dough, and knead the whole together until it has a fine smoothness. Put it into a pan and set it in a cold place for twelve hours ; then turn it out on a floured pasteboard, and quickly mould it into a round mass ; return it to the pan, and set it by again for two or three hours. When it rises, flour the pasteboard and turn it out as before. Cut ofl' one-fourth of it. Mould the three-fourths into a round loaf; put it on a buttered tin, and press a hollow in the middle. Egg it over with the paste-brush, mould the smaller piece of dough pear-shaped; put its point into the hollow of the larger loaf, brush it all over with egg, and set it at once in a moderate oven, to bake an hour or an hour and a quarter. The brioche is nicer baked in a large round tin of suitable shape, which must be buttered. 897. “ He/en Krdnze ”— Yeast Wreaths. Set a pound and a half of fine flour to warm in a pan. Mix an ounce and a half of fresh dried yeast, or two large tablespoonfuls of brewer’s yeast, with a cup of lukewarm milk ; stir this in the middle of the flour to a batter; cover, and leave it to rise. When it is light, add half a pound of butter beaten to a cream, three eggs, three ounces of sifted sugar, and a little salt. Work all to a smooth light dough. Divide it into six parts. Roll them on the paste-board into long bars ; plait two twists of these ; lay them in rings on a buttered tin, making the ends of each ring join. Set them in a warm place to rise, and when light, brush them over with egg. Sprinkle chopped almonds and coarsely powdered sugar over, and bake them a nice yellow colour in a mode- rate oven.