SAUCES. 55 204. “ Krauter Sauce”—Herb Sauce, for Veal, Poultry, Cutlets, d'C. Take sprigs of any green herbs, such as thyme, winter savoury or basilicum, marjoram, very little tarragon, and some parsley. Of the strong herbs, each must be used according to its strength. Wash them well, strip the leaves from the stems, and mince them fine. Mix them into a piece of butter and some flour, as if for thickening. Put them in a saucepan with some broth or gravy and water, and stir till it boils. Add salt, pepper, lemon-juice or vinegar. Let it all simmer a few minutes, then strain, and pour it scalding hot over the yolk of an egg. 205. “ Salbei Sauce ”— Saye Sauce. Mince very small six or eight large green 'sage-leaves, or a dozen smaller ones. Chop two onions fine. Put these together in a stew-pan with a small piece of butter ; dredge over a little flour, cover close, and let them steam a few minutes. Add a tablespoonful of vinegar and some broth or stock gravy, salt and pepper. Simmer till the onion is soft and smooth. Excellent with roast pork. 206. “ Morclieln Sauce ”—Morel Sauce. Wash a few morels and put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter. Cover close, and let them steam till soft. Brown some flour in butter; thin this with sufficient gravy or stock. Add the morels, and with them a little grated lemon- peel and some juice. 207. “ Schalotten Sauce”—Shalot Sauce. A dozen of sliced shalots and an egg-sized piece of butter must be covered in a stew-pan and steamed till soft; then add bread-crumbs or flour, with broth or water enough, salt and pepper. Stir well together and boil five minutes longer. 208. “ Schiller Sauce zu Wild, Coteletten, d'c.”— Schiller Sauce, for Game, Cutlets, dc. ■Use an enamelled stew-pan for this. Put in it a piece of butter and a couple of shalots or an onion sliced. Let them fry till soft and brown, but not burnt. Add half a pint of good brown stock or gravy drawn from lean beef, and a quarter of a pound of tamarinds, thi’oe cloves, a bay-leaf, a