SAUSAGES. 323 lean while mincing. When fat and lean are minced small enough, mix them together with a wooden spoon. Fill, as directed in No. 1141, carefully prepared ox skins. To be sliced raw, they must hang a few weeks first. If preferred cooked, put them on the fire in cold water, and let them come slowly to a simmer, which does not requu'e to be continued longer than an hour. They may then be hung to dry, and may be cut in a day or two. Keep white paper tied over the cut end. The addition of spice, as mentioned above, is peculiar to some districts, as also the use of a small quantity of pounded garlic. Caraway seeds are also frequently used, and, more frequently, whole black pepper. In many parts these sausages are made to look a deeper red, thus:—Catch the blood at killing-time, and, while it is warm, stir enough salt in it to salt it well, and keep stirring till it is cold. Add any approved quantity to the lean while mincing. This blood gives firmness, colour, and richness to the sausages. 1143. “ Bologna Winste ”— Bologna Sausages. Bologna sausages are made as above, using the blood. Some are smoked, some not. They are never boiled in water, but are supposed to cook enough in their skins. 1144. “ Leber Wiirste "—Liver Sausages. Chop and bruise a raw liver quite fine. Pig’s liver is best, but others will answer. Rub it through a coarse sieve or cullender. According to the weight of the liver, take half its weight of boiled pork or other meat, and mince it quite fine. Cut about half a pound of fat bacon into little dice. Mix all well together. Add salt, pepper, and a little allspice or pounded cloves. Fill in the thickest pig skins, only about three parts full before tying. Put them in boiling water, with salt, and let them simmer slowly half an hour. They are good eaten cold, with bread and butter. 1145. “Leber W'urste"—Liver Sausages. {No. 2.) Prepare a liver as above. Chop half its weight in raw pork, very fine. Any cuttings will do, fat and lean together. Mix it with the liver, salt, pepper, and any approved flavour, either spice, a little onion or garlic pounded to a pulp and finely powdered sage or marjoram. Fill the skins not quite