SAUSAGES. 319 If any air spaces appear after filling, prick the skin with a needle. 1133. " Knack W'lirstc"—Knack Sausages. {No. 2.) These also are mostly eaten cold. Steam in a saucepan closely covered some rather lean pork, with very little water, to concentrate its goodness. Be sure it does not boil or cook too fast. When nearly done enough, mince the meat to a pulp. Season it with salt, pepper, allspice or nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel, in the same proportions as for the last recipe. Fill small skins. Boil them a quarter of an hour as above directed, then dip in cold water and hang them in a cool place to dry. Either of these “Knack Wiirste ” are excellent smoked a day or two. 1134. ’^West/alische Brat Wiirste”—Westphalian Sausages. Cut up twelve pounds of any parts of the pork, fat and lean together. Do not mince it so fine as for other sausages ; the pieces should not be smaller than peas. Season with a quarter of a pound of salt, and half an ounce of fresh- ground black pepper. Sprinkle the seasoning among the meat when the mincing begins. Fill in the pig skins, and hang them to smoke for a week. The same sausages, if to be eaten fresh, are all the better for hanging a few days in a cool, dry place. In some localities, the same make of sausages is seasoned with six cloves, ground in with the pepper, or three cloves of garlic pounded to a pulp in a little water; this must be thinned and carefully dispersed in the mincing. 1135. “ Hammel Wurste”—Mutton Sausages. Mince three pounds of mutton and a pound of pork. Mix a seasoning of an ounce and a half of salt, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, a teaspoonful of grated ginger, and the same of winter savory or marjoram finely powdered. Strew the mixture over when mincing begins. Have caught at killing-time a pint of sheep’s blood, and sth’ in it at once a good teaspoonful of salt and about a wineglassful of warm water. But the minced meat in an earthen pan, and well mix in the blood with it. Instead of the marjoram, many prefer to use a teaspoonful