76 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. salt, pepper, finely chopped parsley, chives, or a little -winter savoury. This salad is very good with roast mutton. 292. “ Motile Mvhen in Essig”—Beetroot in Vinegar. Beetroots must be washed and boiled quite whole, -without cutting ofi" either end. Let them cool; then peel and cut them in thin slices. Lay them in an earthem or glass jar ; cover them with cold -vinegar which has been boiled with a handful of caraway seeds, and strained. Sliced horseradish should he laid -with the beetroot. Either mixed with other salads or alone, beetroot in this simple form is good -svith any kind of meats. 293. “ Mother Salat”—Med Salad. Boil small red potatoes in their skins; when cool, peel and slice them a httle thicker than a penny. Some of the inner tender part of a red cabbage must be sliced as thin as possible. Mix equal parts of potato, of cabbage, and beet- root boiled. The dressing must be oil poured over, salt, pepper, and of the above red vinegar enough to colour the potatoes. 294. “ Winter Salat ”— Winter SaJad. Prepare potatoes as in the preceding directions. Cut small slices of pickled beetroot, some apples, and celery, equal portions of each. Or any green pickle may be substi- tuted for celery. Mix these lightly in a salatiere -with treble the quantity of the sliced potatoes. Avoid breaking them. Mix a dressing of oil, sour cream, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper; pour it over the salad, and garnish -with a -wreath of water or garden cresses. Finely shred onion or chives may either be mixed in or handed with the salad. 295. “ Kloster Salat ”— Convent Salad. Slice boiled potatoes, warm or cold ; mix -with them a sliced cucumber and some minced chives or onions, with a small sprig of tarragon. Add salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and sour cream, mixed with a well-beaten egg. 29G. “ Capuziner odcr Blumen Salat ”— Capuchin or Bouquet Salad. Put equal quantities of oil and white -wine vinegar, with a little salt and powdered sugar, in the bottom of a salad-bowl.