147 POULTRY AND GAME. the dish, and let it stand a day or two in a cool place. When it is to be dressed, make butter hot in a stew-pan. Brown the hare in it, then take it out on a dish while you brown two lai-ge spoonfuls of flour in the butter. Thin this with water or broth. Put back the hare, with plenty of black pepper, salt, four cloves, half a lemon, two ounces of minced bacon, and the wine and drawings from the dish in which the hare lay. Cover the stew-pan, and simmer it slowly till tender. Serve with its own sauce, from which remove the cloves and lemon-peel. Garnish with lemon slices. 534. “ Hasen Pfcffer ” or “ Haseklein ”—Hare Pepper. {No. 2.) Having hastily rinsed the hare, lay it on a dish; cut off the head close to the shoulders, take off the fore-legs, and the hind ones to the first joint. Cut right through the breast and ribs, leaving the back with the thighs to form the most important dish, as described hereafter. Leave the kidneys in the loins. Put aside the back on a dry dish, and either cover it with butter-milk or stale milk, or leave it in marinade as before directed. (See Index.) It is with the cuttings we have now to do. Halve the head and divide the liver into three or four. Put a piece of butter in a stew-pan; cut up an onion or two and brown them in the butter. Dredge in some flour, and let this brown; then put in the pieces of hare and the red drainings of the dish, with seasonings of sweet herbs, bay-leaf, two or three cloves, lemon-peel, salt, and black pepper. Cover and let it simmer an hour. A rasher or two of bacon, and some slices of cooked meat, or pieces of steak cooked with it, will give substance and eat well. If no other meat is added, a few ounces of bacon, minced fine, is an improvement in the stewing. 535. Hasenbrateii”—Poast Hare. {No. 2.) The back and thighs of the hare, as left above, may either bo set aside with seasonings or without. It keeps longer marinaded, and is richer and more tender if rubbed all over with a tablespoonful of moist sugar, and left in this a day before the vinegar, &c., is added. For dressing, the thin skin may be flayed from the back or not. Lard it in rows with nicely cut bacon strips. Lay it in a stew-pan that will