I l6 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. up an egg with it, roll the slices of meat in this, and broil them on the gridiron. Sauce for this dish.—Chop the onions that were boiled with the mutton, add one or two fresh ones if necessary, add these to sufficient of the broth, with a teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, some salt, and pepper ; make a thickening of flour and butter, or bread-crumbs instead of flour. Boil it till it becomes thick and smooth. 435. Gedcimpftes Hammelcare"—Loin of Mutton Steiced. A piece of the loin of mutton must have the back-bone chopped away without mangling the meat. Trim oil' the superfluous fat. Make a little butter hot in a stew-pan, and lay the meat in, the bone side uppermost. When browned, turn it up, and add half a pint of water, an onion, a couple of bay-leaves, a small bunch of sweet herbs, three or four doves, any approved vegetable for flavour, salt, and pepper. Cover close, and let it stew slowly. As the gra\y wastes, add a little more water. When done, strain the gravy ; take the fat ofl’, add some rich browning, and serve quite hot. 436. “ Gerdstete Hammelcares"—Loin Cutlets. Prepare and cook the loin of mutton as in the last recipe. Let it get cold and then cut it into well-trimmed cutlets. Galt and pepper them; give them a coating of egg and crumbs, and broil them in buttered papers a delicate brown. 437. “ Hanmel Cotelettcs’’—Mutton Cutlets. The loin of mutton should be fine and well hung. Have the back-bone chopped away. Divide each cutlet between the rib bones; trim ofl’ skin and fat, beat them with a flat knife or cutlet hat, rub with salt and pepper; coat them with egg and crumbs, and fiy them in butter, or broil them in buttered papers. 438. “ Haschee ron Hammel ”— liagout of Mutton. Slice onions thin, put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, and let them steam until soft and yellow; then dredge in flour ; let this brown, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, the same of wine, a grate of nutmeg, some gra\y or broth, salt, and pepper. Let it simmer to a creamy sauce ; then strain it. Slice the cold mutton and clear it from skin and vein ;