129 MEATS. hard-boiled eggs ; the latter should not be chopped so small as the meat. Season it with salt and pepper. Stir the mince into the herbs, with two well-beaten eggs, away from the fire. Put the mass in a caul; form it a neat oblong shape. Boil it half an hour, then brown it a pale colour in a quick oven, or before the fire. This makes a good cold dish. Put in a stew-pan a little water, wine, vinegar, spice, and bay-leaves, and Ijiy in the sausage without the caul, covering it closely, to cook in this. 476. “ Sulze”—Pu/s Head Jellied. (A Nice Supper or Luncheon Dish.) Put in a stew-pan a small pig’s head, the feet,, two calf s feet or a neat’s foot, and either a couple of shalots or an onion, with any approved herbs and seasoning, some vinegar or lemon-juice, and water barely covering the whole. Simmer until soft; then take out the meat, and remove all the bones. When nearly cold, cut up the meat in small pieces the size of a hazel-nut; and, in the same way, cut up any re- mains of poultry or cold tongue, as also a small proportion of roast or boiled meat. In the meantime, take the fat ofl' the liquor, strain, and boil it down to a thick jeUy consistency. Put the meat into it, with a few pickled gherkins, very little tarragon vinegar, plenty of salt and pepper, and a little mace or nutmeg. Stir all well together, and let it get quite hot through. In the bottom of a lai’ge basin, or other mould, put in a little clear gelatine, and let it flow round to coat the mould. Arrange at the bottom a star or spray of pickled beetroot and sliced green pickles, edged with minced parsley and hard-boiled eggs, white and yellow separate. Lay in carefully a few spoonfuls of the thinnest minced meat; let this set; then fill up with the rest. Let it stand a night. Put the mould in hot water, as with all jellies, before turning out. 477. “ Braticurst mit Apfeln ”— Sausages ivith Apples. Peel and core six or eight large apples, cutting each one in four quarters only. Strew sugar and a little powdered cinnamon over, and let them stand a few hours. Wash two ounces of currants and leave them to swell in warm water. Make a piece of butter hot in a stew-pan, and lay in it a pound of sausages, having first pricked them all over to K