328 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. pound of its lean allow a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, and two ounces of white bread-crumbs soaked in milk. Well mix the mass, and season it to taste. A cauliflower garnished with these is nice in appearance and taste. "When made of pork or beef, divide any of the foregoing recipes. Fill these wtirstchen in the smallest skins, and tie or twist them no longer than fi-om two to three inches. 1156. Zungen Wilrste”—Tongue Sausages. For large store sausages, parboil a pickled ox tongue, skin and cut it up warm into inch-square pieces, sprinkle them with ample pepper and a little powdered cloves, let it lie an hour to absorb the seasoning, and then mix it with two- thirds of its weight of sausage meat. No. 1128 or 1132. Proceed as directed in those numbers, but filling in large skins, and allowing longer boiling than for the smaller ones. 1157. ‘^Zungen Wilrste''—Tongue Sausages. (Wo. 2). Lay small tongues, for a night, in a strong pickle of salt and saltpetre. Cut them into dice the size of a nut in the shell. Mix them with prepared sausage meat, either No. 1131, 1132, 1142, or 1144. Pepper the tongues whOe cut- ting up. Allow ten minutes’ longer boiling than directed for those without tongue. Sheeps’ tongues are very good this way, in any of the pork sausages. For those filled in large skins, cut up the tongues in walnut-sized pieces, and pepper them more, adding to the pepper either cloves or allspice. 1158. “ Pressiciirste "—Braun. Brawn is usually classed with sausages. Instead of being in their place here, various recipes will be found among those on pork (pages 125 and 126). 1159. To Prepare SJnns for Sausages. At killing-time, ox, calf, sheep, or swine entrails are pre- pared by emptying, washing Avell, and turning them; then wash them in several waters, scrape them in salt and water, and lay them to soak in lukewarm water. Pass this through by aid of a funnel. Soak them again in lukewarm salt and water changed two or throe times, and lastly rinse them in cold water and hang them in the aii-, but not to dry. They