2 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. bones of roast meat you may happen to have. Add vege- tables and a faggot of herbs. Pour in enough water to cover the bottom of the stew-pan half an inch deep. Leave it over a gentle fire, partly uncovered, to stew slowly until, by evaporation, only a dark brown gravy is left, and this begins to thicken and dry away. Then pour in water, or clear broth, according to the quantity and quality desired. 3. Eiei-flddlen Suppe ”— Pancake Soup. Two tablespoonfuls of fiour, two eggs, and a little salt must be mixed well and thinned with milk to a creamy batter. Grease a hot frying-pan with a little suet, lard, or butter; pour in enough batter to run all over the pan, moving it quickly to let the batter spread thin as possible. When done yellow on one side, turn the pancake. Proceed thus till all the batter is fried ; ^ using very little friture each time, merely enough to grease the pan. Cut the pancakes into strips, diamonds, or any fancy shapes, with the smallest cutters. Give them a boil up in soup—No. 1 or 2. 4. “ Aal Suppe ”— Eel Soup. Skin a large eel; take out the bones; cut it in pieces; boU them and the bones in a little water, with vinegar, sage, onion, salt, pepper, and spice. Take out the eel and strain the gravy. When cool, take off the fat, and with this gra\y, some broth, and a little thickening, make sufficient soup; adding any sliced vegetables or herbs for flavour, and a cup of green peas. Boil it till the vegetables are soft. Chervil, sorrel, parsley, or any other herb, minced fine, may be added. Make fish-balls as ddected in “Fish Forcemeat; ” boil half of them in the soup ; fry the other half a pale bi'own. A\hisk the yolks of two or three eggs in a cup of sour cream or milk ; let the soup cease boiling ; stir in the cream ; add the eels and fried balls ; make them quite hot, and serve. 6. Eiergersten Sujjpe”—Egg-barley Soup. Boat one egg and the yolk of another; work in as much fine flour as the egg will take; knead it into a stifi’, bard ball; grate it on a coarse bread-grater, spreading it over the paste-board as you grate it. When dry, sprinkle it into boiling broth—No. 1—with a little finely cut chives, and grated nutmeg if approved.