105 MEATS. 396. “ Kolbs Fiicandeaii"—Veal Fricandcau. A Hot Dish. (.Y0.2.) _ Proceed as directed in the last recipe with the same piece of veal. Bore and fill it in the same way ; and then lard it all over. When done, take up the veal, and keep it hot while preparing the gravy a^ above. Return the meat to the stew-pan, and baste it with the brown gi-avy till it has a rich brown coating and is nicely glazed. 397. “ Fncandeaux von Kalb ”— Veal Fricandeaux. Cut thick veal cutlets into neat oval shapes ; beat them well; lard them with a small larding-needle ; brown them in a casserole. Make a strong gravy as directed in former recipes. Simmer the fricandeaux in it until tender. Do not let the gravy cover them, but baste them often. They make a pretty dish cold, with the clear gravy jelly arranged on them. The trimmings of the cutlets may be thrown in to strengthen the gravy, or they may he used for Brisolettes. 398. “ Kalb Fricassee niit Schivarzwurzel”— Veal Fricassee with Scorzonei'a. Cut breast of veal into proper pieces for serving ; dredge them with flour all over; put them in a stew-pan with some butter; cover close, and let them steam half an hour, and add water enough to give plenty of sauce. Clean and cut scorzonera into lengths of two inches, as much in quantity as the meat, to which it must be added, with salt, a little grated nutmeg or mace, and some lemon-peel. Cover close, and let it stew till tender ; then pour off some of the sauce into a basin, and stir into this the yolks of two eggs. Return it to the stew, simmer a few minutes, and serve with slices of lemon as garnish. Instead of scorzonera, cauliflower broken into tufts, or cucumbers peeled, quartered, and their seeds taken out, may be used; taking care that the vegetable be not done too much. 399. “ Klops von Kalbjleisch ”— Veal Collops. Any part of loan veal, raw, must bo cleared from skin and vein, minced fine, and mixed with a third as much chopped suet or fat bacon, a handful or two of bread-crumbs, a couple of eggs, pepper, and salt. Mix thoroughly. Take portions the