Terms in Use in the Kitchen. XXI tial pieces for removes, &c.; the other pieces months, or orna- ments ; by pieces de fomh is implied all dishes in pastry that form one entire dish, whether from its composition, or from its particular appearance ; as for example cold pies. Savoy cakes, brioches, Babas, gateaux de Compeigne, &c.; whilst the pieces montees, or ornamental pastries, are more numerous. Hors (Tceuwes.—Small dishes served with the first course. Larding-pin.—An utensil by means of which meat, &c., is larded. , Lardoire (larder).—An instrument of wood or steel for lard- ing meat. Zar</o»w.—The pieces into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of larding meat, &c., &c. To Lard is when you put the bacon through the meat. Things larded do not glaze well. Everything larded on the top or surface is called pique. Madeleines.—Cakes made of the same composition as pound- cakes. Mariner.—Is said of meat or fish when put in oil or vinegar, with strong herbs, to preserve it. Mark.—To prepare meat to be dressed in a stew-pan. Mask.—To cover a dish with aragout or something of the sort. Nourir—is to put in more ham, bacon, butter, &c. Noix de Veau.—The leg of veal is divided into three distinct fleshy parts, besides the middle bone; the larger part, to which the udder is attached, is called the noix, the flat part under it sous noix, and the side part, contre noix, &c. The petites noix are in the side of the shoulder of veal. Paillasse.—A grill over hot cinders. Pain de beurre.—An ounce, or an ounce and a half of butter, made in the' shape of a roll. Panner.—To sprinkle meat or fish which is dressed on the gridiron with crumbs of bread dipped in butter and eggs. Panures.—Everything that is rolled in, or stewed with bread crumbs. Parer—is freeing the meat of nerves, skin, and all unneces- sary fat. Paupiettes.—Slices of meat, rather broad, to be rolled up. Pique—is to lard with a needle game, fowls, and other meats. Po’ele.—Almost the same operation as braising, the only dif- ference is, that what is po&e must be underdone ; whereas a braise must be done throusrh. O