280 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, to three hours constant but slow boiling. The kernels may be picked out and thrown into the preserve when nearly done. Pounded cloves and cinnamon are frequently added. If the cherries are the very sweet black ones a little wine vinegar may be added with advantage, 1000, “ Pflaunien ocler Zicetschen Mus”—Plum Jam without Sugar. Two pecks of perfectly ripe mussel plums, a peck of ripe elderberries, measured on their stems, half an ounce of cloves freshly pounded, half an ounce of powdered cin- namon, and the peel of half a lemon cut very small. Strip the elderberries and hoU them till the juice runs clear and the berries are shrunk. Press the juice through a strainer into the preserving-pan; an earthen one is best. Having wiped and stoned them, add the spice and plums. Boil the jam from two to three hours, with constant stirring from the bottom that it may not burn. When boiled down to a thick smooth consistency lade it into stone jars while hot. When quite cold pour on the top some rendered-down suet of beef or mutton, or cover with brandy-paper, and tie over with bladder or au--proof paper. Keep the jars in a dry place, 1001, “ Pflaivmen Mus ”— Plum Jam irith Sugar. Peel and stone eight pounds of ripe mussel plums. Moisten a pound of loaf sugar with a quarter of a pint of wine vinegar, and boil it clear. A quarter of an ounce of whole cinnamon and a dozen cloves may then be put in with the fruit. Bod it, with incessant stirring, for above two hours, till it is a smooth and thick marmalade. Finish as in the last recipe. A few pieces of whole ginger boiled with the fruit helps to keep it. Untie the jars after a while, and if there is any thin juice on the top, or the least sign of mildew, take it carefully off and boil the preserve again. 1002. “ PJlaumen Mus"—Plum Jam uithout Sugar. {No. 2.) To a peck of ripe plums, take a dozen young green walnuts in their outer shell, and half an ounce of pounded cloves. Wash the plums, drain and boil them to a soft mash, then work them through a coarse sieve to separate the