149 POULTRY AND GAME. a good bunch of s-weet herbs, including basil, and a sprig of maijoram, some salt, pepper, about twenty juniper-berries, as many whole pimento, and six cloves. Let it come slowly to a scalding heat. Skim and leave it to simmer two hours or more according to the size; it must be done tender. Then take it up ; spread over it a beaten egg, and on this sprinkle a thick layer of bread-crumbs mixed with a table- spoonful of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of powdered cinna- mon, and half a dozen of pounded cloves. Brown bread is best for this. The coating must be a third of an inch thick or more. Skim olf a little of the fat boilings, and sprinkle over the crumbs with it. Put the venison in the oven, and let it bake a nice brown. Serve a good fruit sauce with it. 540. “ Klop}}s von Hirsch ”— Venison CoUops. Any remains of cold venison may be cleared of skin and vein, minced very fine, mixed with a third as much minced bacon, a beaten egg or two, a handful of crumbs, salt, pepper, and a little herb seasoning if approved. Mix all well. Form apple-sized balls ; flatten and dip them in egg, and crumb them, or dip them in warmed butter, and fry a nice pale brown. Serve with a good piquant sauce. 541. “ Ragout von Hirsch oder Reh ”— Ragout of Venison. The neck and other smaller parts may be blanched in tepid waters, stewed soft with savoury herbs and spices, and made as other ragouts are, but seasoned higher, and either some fruit-jelly, or lemon-juice, sugar, and red wine in the sauce. 542. “ Kaninchen Marmorirt ”—Marbled Rabbit. Two fine rabbits will make a large handsome dish, exceed' ingly nice cold. Draw out the livers and kidneys to keep them dark; steam them tender in a little stew-pan with a piece of butter. Lay the rabbits to blanch in two or three lukewarm waters. Put them in a stew-pan with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion with six cloves stuck in it, salt, pepper, and a bay-leaf. Pour in cold water enough to cover the rabbits, and let them simmer till tender. Cut the meat off back and legs in solid pieces, scrape the rest off the bones,