238 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. little strings of paste, or cut very naiTOw strips of it, and cross- bar tbe cake to the edge of the paste. The bars must he the size of a quill-pen in width, and twice that width apart. Begin across the middle of the cake each way, and by laying the bars alternately on each side they will interlace prettily. When the cake is thus covered, moisten round the edge, and lay round on it a band of paste about three-quarters of an inch wide. Notch it round the edge; egg the paste over, and dredge it with sugar. Pin a paper round to prevent scorching, and bake it in a moderate oven a deep yellow. Eemove the paper from the border when cold, and place it carefully on a cake-dish or salver. 842. “ Linzer Torte ”— Linzer Cake. (No. 2.) Half a pound of almonds blanched and pounded, half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of butter, three well- beaten eggs, and three-quarters of a pound of flour must be mixed lightly in the manner of tart paste, rolled out thin, and spread on a flat buttered tin. Preserve to be spread over, and either a thin cover of the paste, or narrow strips of the same laid across to form a/ network; then a thm border of paste laid round the edge. 'VNTien drawn from the oven, brush the cake over with egg, and dredge with sugar. It must be baked a pale colour’, in a moderate oven. 843. ^‘Linzer Torte”—Linzer Cake. (^No. 3.) A quarter of a pound of almonds powdered rough, half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of butter, one large or two small eggs, a drachm of powdered cinnamon, and three- quarters of a pound of flour. Proceed as in previous recipes. Another mass: three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, six ounces of almonds, six ounces of sugar, and the yolks of six eggs. 844. “ Linzer Tortclettcn ”—Limer Tartlets. Boll out the linzer paste very thin, and, with a round cutter, stamp out the sizes required to lino small patty-pans, which must bo buttered. Put any sort of preserve in these, and spin across a network of the paste. Brush them over with egg, and bake in a slow oven.