MEATS. 123 quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, add three eggs to it, stirring them well together, and mix the mince in. Add a seasoning of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, six or eight sage- leaves, a sprig of thyme, and a sprig of basilicum ; let these herbs be finely powdered or minced ; add one or two onions softened in butter and chopped. Mix all well together; fill the pig with it, and sew it up. Prick the skin all over with the point of a larding-pin. Lay it in a baking-pan, on a low meat-stand, or some skewers placed across, so that the fore feet bend, kneeling, under the breast, and the hind ones are similarly bent. Put a gag of wood in the mouth to keep it open. As soon as the pig is warm in the oven, rub it over with butter. Put a little water, butter, and salt in the pan, and baste frequently with this till the skin has a rich pale brown. About an honr and a half will bake it. Add some broth or made gravy and water to the baking-dish. Stir it well ronnd ; take the fat off. Thicken the sauce with a little an'owroot, potato-meal, or flour; strain, and serve it in a tureen. Take the gag out of the pig’s mouth, and put in an apple or half a lemon. The pig may be roasted before the fire, either with or without the stuffing. Rub the inside first %vith maijoram, caraways, and pepper. Skewer the legs in a kneeling pos- ture. Prick the skin well. Rub it over with butter, and finish as above. 458. “ Roulade von Schiceinfleisch ”—Rolled Pork. Choose the spring of fresh young pork. Take out the small bones. Mix a teaspoonful of saltpetre with two table- spoonfuls of common salt, and sprinkle it over the pork ; roll it up, and leave it two or three days. When about to dress it, rinse off the salt, and wipe the meat dry. Lay on the inside small pickled gherkins and slices of any pickled tongue, bprinkle over some black pepper and a pinch of powdered cloves. Roll and bind the pork tightly in a nice shape. Put it in a deep stew-pan in enough cold water to cover it, and with it some onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, two bay-leaves, and a little spice. Simmer it slowly from two and a half to three hours. Press it between plates, to get quite cold, before you take off the binding. Cut ofl’ a top slice, and send it to table whole, nicely garnished. Or serve in well- arranged slices, with the sauce Remoulade, or without.