■i06 Appendix. “ It was some months after this that I was attacked with the malady which torments me, and which will close, perhaps, the future on me. I am still under the hands of the doctors, but do not mend. One of my old friends, M. Alagonty, replaces me in my post. “ I will not close this chapter without saying that I obtained, while in the house of Madame Eothschild, the inestimable good-will of a man of genius, of the Maestro Rossini; he is a connoisseur, as is well known; he always said that he only dined well, according to his taste, at the house of Madame Rothschild. He asked me one day if my labours were not the result of very attentive meditation ? I answered affirmatively, ‘ All that I do is written ; I slightly alter in execution.’ I remember that one day there was some talk of Rossini going to the United States ; he was good enough to say, ‘ I’ll start at once if Careme will but accompany me.’ ” I shall conclude with a few detached passages, aphorisms, and thoughts, from the same great authority. Fete given at the Elysee Imperial for the Marriage of Prince Jerome and the Princess of Wurtemburg. “ At this, a grand ball, Robert was comptroller, and the famous Laguipierre chef des cuisines. Riquette and I were charged with such portion of the supper as was served cold. We thus, as nearly as I can remember, filled the tables: twenty- four large joints, fourteen stands bearing hams, s\x galantiiies, and two wild boars’ heads, six loins of veal a la gelee, seventy- six entrees, six of which were sides and fillets of beef d la gelee, six noix de veau, six of dressed calves’ brains bordered with shapes of jelly, six of pain de foie gras, six of poulets d la reine en galantine, six Jaspics garnished with cocks’ combs and kid- neys, six of salmis of red partridge lukewarm, six of fricasces of poulet d la reine, si.x of mayonnaises de volatile, six of slices of salmon au heurre de Montpelier, six of salads of fillets of soles, six of galantines of eels nu bcurre de Montpelier. Our • Riquette was then a young Parisian cook, who has since made a considerable fortune in the service of the Emperor Alexander. He spoke and wrote so remarkably, that his competitors called him the beau jiarleur.