320 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. of finely minced sage, green, or powdered if dried, and either a clove of garlic pounded, or a shalot. The quantities of ginger and pepper may exceed rather than fall short of the above pro- portions. Have ready some carefully prepared sheep’s entrail skins. Fill, and tie them in three or four-inch lengths. Put the sausages in a saucepan of cold water and set it on the fire. Let them come to a scalding heat but not boil. Take away the saucepan from the fire, let the sausages remain in the water till half cold, then take them out, wipe, and hang them to dry. When the water approaches a scalding heat, if one of the skins should hurst, prick the others with a needle. Fry them when to he used. 1136. “ Rivdfleischirurste”—Beef Smisages. Four pounds of heef and one pound of pork must be minced together fine ; then cut up a pound of fat bacon into little dice, and mix it into the other mince with the following seasoning: two ounces of salt, a teaspoonful of fine salt- petre, half an ounce of pepper, five pounded or ground cloves, and a shalot or clove of garlic bruised to a pulp. To disperse the flavour of garlic or shalot equally, put half a cup of water in the mortar with the pounded garlic, and pour this among the meat. Fill tightly in ox skins, and tie them firmly. Put them in cold water on the fire and simmer them an hour. When done, lay them in cold water for two or three minutes, and hang them in a cool airy place. 1137. “ Rindfleischui'a-ste ”— Beef Sausages. [No. 2.) To every pound of finely minced raw beef, add six ounces of fat pork or bacon, cut into little dice. Season wth salt, pepper, and either mixed spice or nutmeg alone. Fill in small beef skins. Put them on the fire in cold water and simmer twenty minutes after they come to a boil. T\Tien done, dip them in cold water, and hang them to dry in a cool airy place. Both these and No. 1136, are ready at any time to serv'e in thin slices with broad and butter. They are both good smoked. 1138. Rindfeischicurste”—Beef Sausages. (Wo. 8.) Mince lean heef to a pulp, and to every pound allow half a pound of bacon, cut into small dice. Use a little milk to moisten while pounding. Season well with salt, pepper, and