i8i “KLOSSE.” lomon-peel. Mix the whole with two well-beaten eggs. Form kldsse, and boil them ten minutes in clear soup. Veal may be used as above. 649. “Mark Kldsse ”—Marrow Kldsse. Chop, but not too finely, half a pound of marrow. Beat the yolks of six eggs until frothy, add the marrow and stir them well together. Cut a light roll into thin slices, toast and cut them into small dice. Soak the crumb of an un- toasted roll in milk, just enough to damp the bread; mix with this a httle minced parsley and some salt. Dredge in two tahlespoonfuls of flour, add the other ingi*edients, stir the whole together, and form the kldsse. Boil them in broth or water. Lay them in the tureen, and pour the soup over. 650. “ Gehackene Mark Kldsse ”—Fried Kldsse. A quarter of a pound of chopped marrow. Two ounces of bread soaked in milk, two tablespoonfuls of flour, a little nutmeg, salt, and two well-beaten eggs ; if they are small, use three eggs. Mix the whole ; make walnut-sized kldsse. Fry them a nice yellow. Lay them on a fish-drainer or napkin to dry, and seiwe with hashes, ragouts, &c. 651. “ Kalbshirn Kldsse ”— Calf’s-hrain Kldsse. Boil the brain, lay it in cold water. Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, add four eggs and beat them well together. Chop the brain, not too small, add it to the cream with as much grated bread as will bind the whole to form kldsse. Salt, nutmeg, or whatever is preferred, may be added as seasoning, but the flavour must be delicate. Boil them as usual. 652. “ Butter Kndpflein''—Butter Buttons for Soups. Stir a quarter of a pound of butter creamy, then stir in three eggs, and, by degrees,, three large tablespoonfuls of flour, and salt enough. Have a clear soup ready and boiling gently. Lay small kldsse in with a spoon, and let them simmer a quarter of an hour before serving. 653. “ Sago Kldsse ”— Sago Kldsse. Boil sago in milk or broth, keeping it stirred until thick and clear. Pour it into a flat dish to got cold. The dish should be so large that the sago is an inch thick. When