91 MEATS. done quite tender, take up the slices. Skim off any super- fluous fat from the sauce; dust a little flour in ; darken the sauce with sugar browning ; let it cook for a minute ; then pour it over the meat, which garnish with sliced potatoes fried in butter. 351. Zrazy”—Sraszy. {No. 2.) Mince an onion or couple of shalots and a small clove of garlic. Put these in a stew-pan with about two ounces of butter, some bruised black pepper, and two or three crushed cloves. When the onion is done yellow, lay in the little steaks, prepared as above, strew salt and a dust of pepper over, cover the stew-pan, and let the zrazy steam tender in their own gravy. As this dries away, add a little stock soup or good gravy. The steaming must be slow. When quite tender, dish the sraszy and strain the gravy over them. Put a wreath of potato slices round the dish; they must have been fried a nice delicate brown in butter. Puree of potatoes is often served with the Polnisches Zrazy. 352. Fricandelle ”— Fricandelles. Use any remains of roast or other cooked beef. Mince it very fine, with a little onion, parsley, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and bread-crumbs, or pieces of bread soaked in cold water and pressed out, some fat meat or bacon, and an egg or two to bind the mass. Mix it well, and form balls the size and shape of an egg. Fry them in butter, or bake them a nice brown. Instead of bread, mashed potatoes may he used with all the above ingredients, and finished the same. 353. “ Frische Zunye ”— Fresh Ox Tongue Put the tongue on the fire in cold water. Let it simmer slowly till quite tender, then take the skin ofl’. Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan; dust in a tablespoonful of flour and as much grated bread as the butter will absorb and brown. Mince a few rashers of bacon small, as also an onion, and add them to the sauce with the juice of a lemon and a slice of its peel. Thin the sauce with a little broth, or water in which the tongue was boiled. Lay in the tongue, sprinkle it with salt, cover, and simmer it an hour slowly.