228 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. make a hole in the centre through to the meat. Pour in the good gravy after the pasty is baked. 813. “ Wild Pastete ”— Venison Pasty. (No. 2.) Beat the venison well with the rolling-pin or cutlet-bat. Rub it over with shced shalots, and a clove of garlic ; sprinkle it with salt, a teaspoonful of black pepper, and six pounded cloves mixed ; then rub in a dessert-spoonful of sugar. Lay it in a dish ; pour half a teacup of vinegar over, and place on the meat a dozen juniper-berries or two bay- leaves. Leave it in this marinade four or five days, turning and basting every day. Then put a good piece of butter to get hot in a large stew-pan; lay in the meat, cut in pieces if too large, cover, and let it steam tender in its own gravy, having added the marinade at first, and a little water as it wastes away. When done, cut the meat off in thick steaks, and leave them to get cold while the bones stew longer, and out of this gi’avy prepare a good truffle sauce. Pack the pieces of meat in the pasty, with a few well-seasoned force- meat balls. Bake it in a moderate oven, and, when done, pom- in with a funnel the truffle sauce. This pasty may be served hot or cold. 814. “ Farce Pastete”— Forcemeat Pasty. ^ Cut up two pounds of veal, a pound of pork, and a pound of bacon in shces. Put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan with a cup of water. Lay in the slices of meat wth a grated onion or a large one finely minced, and a teaspoonful of white pepper. Cover close, and let the meat steam till tender ; then take it out on a dish, and when drained mince it very fine, sprinkling in a good seasoning of salt. The drainings on the dish must be put back to the gravy in the stew-pan, and this well seasoned with salt and pepper ; a few of the green herbs most approved must bo very finely minced and thrown in to soften. Do not skim the fat ofl’ the gravj'. Beat six eggs well; stir these and a cup of milk into the gravy; add a very little mace or nutmeg, and then tho- roughly mix in the minced meat. Line a round form with paste, the bottom and sides of which must be well closed ; put in the mass, cover with the paste-lid, and make a hole in the top. Bake it in a moderate oven. Let it get quite cold in the form, and then place the latter in hot water for a