GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 224 grated, a little spice to flavour delicately, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and a good seasoning of salt and white pepper. Proceed in all particulars as directed in the last recipe, the only difl'erence being that the onion should be left out, and veal substituted for pork. Let there be two sliced livers between the forcemeat. 805. “ Pates-de-foies Gras,” or Strasbourg Patties, Of any size, may be formed from either of the four preceding recipes, given in detail, especially from those in which truflles are used. The livers must always be laid in milk to blanch them, as the paler their colour, the more they are like the “ foies Gras ” of geese fed up for this particular delicacy. 80G. “ Gans Pastete ”— Goose Pasty. The goose must be well plucked and singed, and the giblets prepared as for stewing. Cut ofl’ the legs and wings close to the body. Put goose and giblets into a deep stew-pan with a large onion, eight cloves stuck in it, a sprig of winter savory or marjoi’am, a sprig of sage, and a few’ sprigs of parsley, all tied together. Pour in cold water enough to cover it, close the lid and let it simmer from an hour and a half to tw’O hours over a slow fire. Add a plentiful season- ing of salt and pepper wLen half done^ Meantime, boil a small plate of chestnuts, peel and pound them smooth^ with a very little fresh butter, some salt, and j’olks of eggs enough to form a paste, and roll this into egg-shaped forcemeat balls. Take up the goose and cut all the meat from the bones in slices. Scrape ofi’ what remains on the bones and neck ; mince these scraps, including the sole, with an equal quantity of bacon, add salt, pepper, a little fine herbs, and an egg to bind it. Lay teaspooufuls of this mass on a plate read}- for use. Put back the bones as you strip them, to stew longer in the gravy, with the feet and gizzard. Line a dish with good tart paste, lay in the meat, with some balls of each forcemeat bctw'ecn, and a slice of gizzard hero and there. Season the gravy well with salt, pepper, lemon-juice, or vinegar, strain some of it into the dish, cover, and bake the pasty in a brisk oven. The gravy must be rich enough to form a jelly when -cold. ^Yheu the pasty is baked a deep