SAUSAGES. 325 or other part of pork, and with it some sward, till tender. In the same water simmer afterwards a calf’s or pig’s liver. Be sure it does not boil to get hard. Parboil a calf’s lights. Mince these very fine separately, as also the meat and liver. Season, in the proportions given for other sausages, with salt, pepper, ginger, finely minced onion, garlic or shalot, and sage if approved. Mix all well together in an earthen pan. During the mincing, boil down the liquor the meats were boiled in. Season, and add this, to moisten the whole. Beat it to a smooth mass. Fill in large skins, leaving room for the meat to swell. Boil them slowly half an hour, and hang them two days in cool smoke. The mincing machine is infinitely better than hand-work for all the liver sausages. 1149. “ Kaninchen Wurste ”— Rabbit Sausages. When rabbits abound, they render very delicate, good, and profitable sausages. Skin and paunch them while fresh. Rinse them quickly in plenty of cold water, to remove any down of the skin that may hang about them. Cut them up, by disjointing, as usual. Strip the meat from the bones, bruise the latter, and cut open the heads ; put these and the bones in a saucepan, pack them close, and pour in water barely enough to cover them ; add salt and pepper, and let them stew while you mince the meat fine. The livers must be dealt with separately. Cut out the gall-bags, and put the livers in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, or very little water, cover and let them steam till cooked through. Then take them out and chop them coarsely. To every three pounds of rabbit meat allow a pound of fat pork or bacon, chopped small, but not minced so fine as the rabbits. Mix the meats and liver together, with the seasoning, which must be in proportion; for eight pounds of sausage meat, three ounces of salt, a good half ounce of pepper, and six cloves ground with the pepper. The bones must have been covered close and shaken up occasionally. Well boiled down they should render a strong glutinous gravy, about half a pint to every four rabbits. Strain this, season it well, moisten the mince with it while warm ; mix all thoroughly, and fill either sheep or pig skins. This sausage is also excellent filled in a large skin, boiled slowly an hour, and served in slices cold.