142 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. little cold water, ■will do as well as the calfs feet, and save trouble. 515. “ Gefiugel in Aspic ”— Poultry in Jelly. For suppers or luncheon, this is by far the most elegant and economical way of serving poultry. A couple of ordinary-sized fowls wUl give two dishes, rendering much more to serve than by car\dng plain. Cut up an uncooked fowl, leaving the breast on its bone whole. Put all the parts in a stew-pan, including liver, heart, and' gizzard. Cover with nearly a quart of cold water and let it come slowly to a simmer ; then add four cloves, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, two or three of parsley, and three slices of lemon. Simmer all slowly for an hour, but do not let it boil fast, or the meat will be hard. When nearly done, add plenty of salt and white or cayenne pepper to taste. The meat must be cooked enough to part from the bones, yet not boiled to pieces. Take out the fowl. Cut the meat off the breast in four long slices; the other parts may be cut off in smaller pieces of any shape. When the bones are stripped, put them back into the gra'vy in the stew-pan, and add half an ounce of gelatine, or isinglass, previously soaked in a little cold water. Let the bones stew a little time longer, then strain off the liquid jelly through a napkin to clear it. Put a few spoonfuls to flow and congeal over the bottom of a deep pie-dish, about ten inches long. Cut a hard-boiled egg into three inner slices and two end ones, put the best slice in the middle of the dish, and the other slices uniform with this, two inches apart, the best side downwards. Lay the two best white slices of breast on each side of the centre slice of egg, and across, near the ends of the dish, lay the other two slices of breast, their best sides under. Between these and the egg, lay small slices of the darker liver or gizzard, with or ■without au ornamental arrangement of gi'een pickles. Pour a little of the half-cold jelly on this layer and allow it to congeal, then put in the rest of the meat, not too closely wedged together. Pour the jelly over, and set it in a cool place to stand a night before turning out. llemaius of turkey or game cut up, and their bones stewed as above, render nice cold dishes. Thin slices of ham or bacon may be rolled up and put between the meat.