FARINACEOUS DISHES. 195 698. “Aepfel Schnarren"—Apple Schmarn. Peel apples and cut them away in little thin slices ; make butter hot in a stew-pan ; put in the apples, and leave them, covered, to steam rather soft. Then stir into them the above schmarn-batter; a large two-pronged iron fork is better than a spoon to use in breaking up the schmarn as it colours and sets. Currants plumped in hot water, and a little spice or lemon-peel, may be added to this, with sugar to taste. "When it has a thin peel of crust at the bottom, after the first breaking up, repeat the crumbling or tearing process, and serve. 699. “ Manclel Schmarn"—Almond Schmarn. Use a little less flour than is given in the first recipe, and an extra yolk or two, making a thinner batter; mix in an ounce or two of almonds, blanched and sliced. Add some plumped currants if approved. Let the egg-whites be whisked to a stifl’ snow before it is added. Put the mass into about two ounces of hot butter; break up the schmarn with two forks as soon as a thin delicate crusting has formed. Let it encrust a second time, and tear it apart. Serve with sifted sugar and a good handful of thinly-sliced almonds strewn over. 700. “ Kirschen Schmarn ”— Cherry Schmarn. Steam the cherries partly soft in very little water and sugar, shaking them gently once or twice. Stir them into the batter, and proceed as with other schmarn. When dished, strew over powdered sugar and cinnamon. 701. “ Semmcl Schmarn ”— Liijht Roll Schmarn. Pare the crust off three or four rolls. Allow to each roll an egg and teacup of milk thoroughly mixed. Slice the rolls thin ; pour over the custard and let them soak. Add a few currants and sultana raisins, sugar, lemon-peel or spice, and a few sliced almonds, if at hand. Have an egg-sized piece of butter hot in a stew-pan, turn in the mass, finish as directed for other schmarn, and servo with sugar and cinna- mon strewn over. 702. Kaiier Schmarn"—Imperial Schmarn. Whisk the yolks of five eggs with a pint of cream. Add an ounce of blanched almonds cut fine, an ounce of sultana