303 PUNCH. 1085. “ Pimsch Essenz”—Punch Essence. (jYo. 2.) Rasp off the yellow rind of three lemons with a pound and a quarter of sugar lumps ; then moisten the sugar with as much water as it will absorb, and boil it clear. Add the juice of four lemons, and, when cool, mix with it a quart of tine arrack or old rum. Mix with boiling water or hot tea according to taste, when required. ' 1086. “ Kaiser Punsch ”— Cold Imperial Punch. This is a cold punch, well deserving its name. Ingredients : —A pineapple; a Heville orange ; four lemons ; four sweet oranges ; an inch of vanilla split open; a drachm of stick cinnamon; half a pound of loaf sugar; a bottle of good hock, a bottle of champagne, and a bottle of arrack. Peel the Seville oranges, then put the peel, with the vanilla and cinnamon, to scald in a quart of water by the tire. Cover this close while infusing. Slice the pineapple very thin into a punch-bowl. Peel the sweet oranges very close, scraping all the white off; cut each one into eight slices, and add them to the pineapple. Having rasped the rind off' a lemon with some of the lumps, add all the sugar to the fruit, and add also the juice of the four lemons. Pour the flavoured water through a strainer into the bowl, and cover it close until quite cold; then add, first the arrack, then the hock, and lastly the champagne, with half a bottle or good pint of seltzer water. Stir all together briskly. Serve in champagne-glasses. 1087. “ Wein Punsch"— Wine Punch. Rasp the yellow rind off' two lemons with half a pound of lump sugar. Put this in a bowl with the juice of the lemons. Make two bottles of good Rhine wine scalding hot, adding to it a pint of strong green tea. Pour this over the sugar, and add from half a pint to a pint of arrack or tine rum. 1088. “ Eier Wein ” or “ Whip Eyy Wine. With a quarter of a pound of lump sugar rasp off the yellow rind of a lemon. Put the sugar and juice of a lemon in a casserole, with half a teaspoonful of freshly ground cinnamon, a bottle of white wine, and four well-beaten eggs.