GERMAN- NATIONAL COOKERY. 204 736. “ Hef671 Plinsen”—Yeast Fritters. Make a batter of a pound of flour, six eggs, a pint and a half of lukewarm milk, a quarter of a pound of butter melted, a teacupful of yeast or an ounce of dry yeast dissolved in some of the milk warmed, and a spoonful of salt. Llix all thoroughly. Cover, and put it in a warm place to rise; then fry thin pancakes. Strew them with sugar and cinnamon, and serve as soon as they are fried. 737. “ Karthiiuser O/nelette”—A F)-iar's O/iieUt. To four well-beaten eggs, add four tablespoonfuls of thick cream, a little salt, and a few chives minced fine. Put two ounces of butter in a hot omelet-pan, or iron stew-pan. Set it over a slow fire. Pour in the eggs, place a cover over, and red coals on it to draw and colour the omelet on the top. When nicely risen, turn it out and serve dh’ectly. 738. “ Omelette ”— Plam Omelet. Six well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of fine flour, a quarter of a pint of good milk, a little salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Have a good piece of butter hot in the pan, pour in the omelet and stir it apart until set, then leave it to brown delicately. Do not turn it, but fold it together. 739. “ Kartoffel Omelette”—Potato Oinelet. Grate three mealy potatoes, beat three eggs, and mix these with three tablespoonfuls of milk. Add salt, white pepper, and any herb to flavour. Muice three ounces of ham or bacon in small dice, fry these in the pan, add a piece of butter, put in the mixed potatoes and eggs, stir all until set; then leave it to brown. Fold over and serve. 740. “ Schanni Omelette”—Foam Omelet. The yolks of six eggs, and two whites, a tablespoonful of arrowroot, and half a pint of milk, a little salt and nutmeg. Fried as above. Sift sugar over. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a snow, with a little sifted sugar. Pile it on the omelet. Give it a tinge of brown and serve. 741. “ O/nelette mit J/'/s ”— Omelet irith G/'anj. Beat six eggs, with two tablespoonfuls of broth or milk, some finely minced parsley and chives, salt and jwpper. Melt