GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 2-JO husks, a quarter of a pound of flour, and a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon. Form a paste ; roll it out as thin as possible ; stamp out little cakes with difl'erent cutters, and bake them slowly on buttered tins. 959. “ Wiener Eishogen ”— Vienna Cakes. Beat five eggs ; add to them half a pound of sifted sugar, the gi'ated peel of a lemon, half a nutmeg grated, and half a pound of fine flour mixed in by degrees. Eoll out the mass as thin as possible ; lay it on a well-buttered tin or two. Chop two ounces of almonds very small; strew them over the paste ; then dredge over sugar and cinnamon mixed. Bake them slowly on buttered tins a pale yellow colour. When done, cut them on the tins into pieces about three inches long, and a little narrower; form them into tubes, by rolling them round the handle of a wooden spoon while still warm, or they will crack. Form them lengthways, upon any smooth sort of rolling-pin or other cylinder. 960. “ Brettsteine ”—Little Fancy Biscuits. Stir half a pound of sugar and two eggs for a quarter of an hour ; add the rind of a lemon grated, and by degrees half a pound of flour. "When well mixed into a smooth paste, roll it out very thin. Stamp out little fancy cakes, and bake them on buttered tins a pale yellow. 961. “ Zucker Bretzeln ”— Fancy Buns. Cut up half a pound of butter into half a pound of flour. Add a quarter of a pound of sugar, the yolks of three eggs and white of one ; use sour cream or milk enough to form a light dough. Mould with the hands little bars about six inches long and thick as a finger. Bend them into crescents; brush them over with white of egg, and strew over coarsely powdered sugar and finely chopped almonds. Bake them in a brisk oven a pale colour. 962. “ S Bretzeln ”—S Bretzels. Beat half a pound of butter soft; stir in a quarter of a pound of sugar and the yolks of five or six eggs. Add by degrees three-quarters of a pound of flour to form a paste. Boll out small bars ; tuim them into the S form; brush over