FISH. 39 sauce, or a sardine sauce. Add a good sprinkling of lemon- juice. Scrape in the cmsting of the dish. Pour the sauce over the fish, and serve. 1B9. “ Oebratencr Hecht mit saurer Saline ”—‘Baked Bike with Sour Cream. Cut the pike in neat slices. Place them in an earthen baking-dish, with some butter at the bottom. Divide two bay-leaves into pieces, and put them, with slices of onion, between the fish. Strew with salt, and pour over half a pint of sour cream. Bake about twenty minutes in a quick oven, basting at intervals. Then strew over some fine bread- crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese. Bake a few minutes more, till delicately coloured. Dish without breaking the slices ; but take away the bay-leaf and onion. Pour enough broth or water into the baking-dish to make a sauce. Add pepper, salt, lemon-juice or vinegar; stir well round the crusting, and pour it over the fish. 140. “ Carhonaden von Hecht ”— Carbonade of Pike. Slices of pike, neatly cut, and cleiired of skin and bone, must be coated with fine herbs and oiled butter. After which, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and lade over some beaten egg with a spoon. Bake them a pale brown, and serve with a good sprinkling of lemon-juice and a little gravy made in the baking-dish. Carbonaden may be thus made with any other solid fish. 141. “ Angeschlayener Hecht ”—A Coated Pike. Clean a good-sized pike or carp, take out the gills, cut the tail fin shorter. Cut off the solid fish, so that veiy little is left on the backbone, and the head and tail remain perfect on it. Prepare the white meat of this and another fish as directed for fish “ cotelettes.” Make the mass rather thick or stiff. Put some butter in a baking-dish. Lay in the skeleton pike, and cover this with the mince. Smooth it over to a fish shape. Coat it with egg and bread-crumbs, and with Parmesan cheese or not. Baste with oiled butter. Cover the head and tail with paper, to prevent browning before tbe body of the fish is done through. Bake it in a moderate oven, and serve with any good fish sauce.