GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 248 878. “ Zimmt Kitchen ”— Cinnamon Cake. Blanch half a pound of almonds, and pound them with a little rose-water; mix these with a half a pound of powdered sugar, two eggs, a cup of sour cream, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, and the grated peel of a quarter of a lemon. Spread a thin “ miirberteig ” on a flat tin ; pour over the mass, and hake. 879. “ Eier Kuchen," or “ EienvUlien”—A Custard Cake. Three well-beaten eggs, three tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and a pint of milk; to be thoroughly stirred. Butter a flat tin that has an edge all round ; cover it with a thin bread-dough raised at the edges ; pour over it the butter, which must he of the thickness of cream only. Cut httle pieces of butter over, and bake a nice yellow colour. 880. “ Zivetschgen Kuchen ”—Mussel Plum Cake. Mix a large breakfast-cup full of grated bread, with two ounces of almonds pounded or cut small, three ounces of sugar, a small teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and two ounces of butter beaten to a cream. Spread a good tart- paste thinly over a shallow tio, and over this half of the mixture. Halve Orlean or mussel plums the long way, and take out the stones ; lay the halves, the skin downwards, close together, all over the plate ; strew over some sugar, and spread over equally the other half of the crumb-mixture. Bake it in a well-heated oven. 881, “ Zwetschgen Kuchen ’’—Mussel Plum Cake. (Xo. 2.) Spread a plain paste over a flat tin, raise an edge by pinching it up, strew over a thick layer of bread-crumbs and sugar, with a dusting of powdered cinnamon. HiUve large dark plums the long way, and take the stones out; lay the halves close together all over the paste, the blue side down- wards. Strew over more crumbs, with cinnamon and plenty of sugar; lay small pieces of butter here and there, and bake. 882. ^‘Kaiser Kuchen ”—Imperial Cake. Soak the crumb of three French rolls in cold milk, and press it out dry ; beat this bread well with a quarter of a pound of warmed butter and the yolks of six eggs. Add two