71 SAUCES. made into balls for soups or pasties. If used for a white meat pasty, lay the stuffing on thin slices of ham, roll them up, and pack them between the meat. 276. “ Farce von Wild ”— Forcemeat of Game. Weigh the meat of game when stripped from the hones, and take a fourth of its weight in bacon. Mince both quite fine. Add shalot, capers, a few leaves of tarragon, and a little lemon-peel, all finely minced. Bread soaked and pressed out, yolks of eggs and their whites beaten to a snow, salt and pepper, must all be well mixed with the meat. Tarragon must be used sparingly, as its flavour is strong. 277. “Farce zu kalte^i Pasteien ”—Forcemeat for Cold Pasties. For nearly all cold savoury pies, whether of meat or poultry, the chief ingredients for forcemeat are the same. As a rule, veal or chicken must be used for pasties made of white meats. For game or beef pasties, use any kind of pork, game, or liver. 278. “ Farce von Leber ”— Forcmneat of Liver. Chop calf’s liver fine, removing all the skin ; then chop a third in quantity or weight of fat bacon. Slice an onion thin, as also a shalot or clove of garlic, if approved, and put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter ; cover, and let them steam soft. Soak bread without crust in cold water, and press it out; add it to the onion, with more butter if necessary, and stir it over the fire to a stiff paste. Then put it in a mortar with a couple of yolks of eggs, the minced liver and bacon, salt, pepper, and a little allspice, or nutmeg. Rub all smooth together, and work it through a sieve. 279. “ Fisch Farce ”— Forcemeat of Fish. Have a pound of solid fish cleared from skin and bone. Dry it in a napkin and mince it fine. Soak four or five ounces of bread without crust in milk, and press it out. Slice a small onion and steam it in butter till quite soft, but not brown; rub it smooth in a mortar, with the drainings of the butter it was stewed in. Add two ounces more of butter, and stir it soft. Then add the bread by degrees, two well- beaten eggs, salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and lastly the fish. Mix all well together, and form little balls to fry or boil.