399 Anthony Careme, biography, which he did not live to finish. As it has not appeared in an English dress, I give the gem in a translation made at the time it was published. “Although born of one of the poorest families of Franco, of a family which counted amongst its members five-and-twenty children—although my father, to save me, literally flung me into the street; Fortune, nevertheless, rapidly smiled on me, and a good fairy often took me by the hand, to lead me in the right way. In the eyes of my enemies (and I have many) I have more than once appeared the spoiled child of Fortune. I have accepted and refused, at various times, the finest places; I have abandoned the first families in Europe to write my practice of cookery and that of some great contemporaries gone to their account, whose principles and practice were engraved in my memory. “I have only accepted good places, however, in families where my taste for study, and the views which I early enter- tained as to eminence in my profession, would not be interfered with. In the rapid passage to all these places heaps of money were offered me half a score of times, but I have not been over-desirous of mere wealth. My ambition was serious and elevated, and very early in life I desired to elevate my pro- fession into the dignity of an art. It is precisely in this road that I have encountered the greatest obstructions. I have everywhere found idleness and envy—that miserable disposi- tion of mind made wretched by every superiority, and above all by that of a comrade. But I have had more success than I desired, though the exceptionable position in which I have been placed has never diminished the misery of often living among men destitute of all education. For some years I have sought the means to give these men a moral culture (Jahication ilu cceur) ; but I could not very clearly see my way, for this self- education in the midst of an active life is the most difficult of acquisition. The example of a family is necessary to educate our soul. “ Here and there I have some remembrance of seriously dis- agreeable passages, owing to the low rich (vilains riches) ; but I ought, on the other other hand, to recall to mind the good, the excellent conduct of gentlemen of truth, noble seigneurs that I have served. I have never had to complain but of the conduct of a parvenu, a name which the fellow decorated himself with