HORS D’OEUVRES. 2y measure of milk. Soak the bread slices in this, and fry them in butter a delicate pale brown. Lay the slices round the edge of your dish, letting one slice rest on the edge of the other. Lay poached eggs in the middle of the dish, and put on them the following sauce, which must be just thick enough to spread. Mince the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs quite small. Chop tine some parsley, a little sprig of tarragon, and some pimpernel or burnet. Melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan ; put in the minced herbs, and stu- them a few minutes to soften ; then add salt, pepper, and the minced eggs, with a dessert-spoonful of gravy, the same of lemon- juice or vinegar, a spoonful of capers whole, a little oil and mustard, and, if required, a few crumbs to thicken. Stir all together. Put a small tuft on each poached egg, and spread the rest on the wreath of sippets. Take about a dozen of sardines, bone them and mince them small with a piece of butter and a little cayenne pepper. Divide and spread this on the sippets. Place them to warm for a minute in the oven, and serve directly after the soup. 107. “ Croqnctten von HuJin ”— Croquettes of Fowl. Strip the meat from a fowl, and cut it into small dice. Prepare a sauce of good gravy, a spoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, some dissolved gelatine, lemon-juice, the yolks of two or three eggs, salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Mix the fowl with the sauce, and let it get cold. Then form, with the addition of a few grated bread-crumbs, dimi- nutive sausages. Eoll these in egg, grated bread, and Parmesan cheese. Fry them in butter, a delicate yellow colour. These croquettes may be used as a garnish to any delicate vegetable, for which purpose make them the size of dates. 108. “ Canapces von Sardellen ’’— Canapees of Sardines. Slices of rolls must be cut nicely into octagon or oval shapes. Fry them yellow, in oil or butter, or toast them slightly. Strip sardines from the bones. Lay half of them aside, and pound the other half with the yolks of three or four hard-boiled eggs and sufiicient butter to form a paste. Mix in a little mustard, pepper, minced parsley, chives, tarragon, and a little vinegar. When all is rubbed smooth together, spread it over the prepared slices of roll. Lay on