15^ VEGETABLES. for a few minutes, then spread them over the potatoes in the stew-pan. Cover with the other half of the potatoes, and stew them ten minutes. Or the whole may be done in the oven, with the dish covered. 557. “ Kartoffel Kuchen ”—Potato Pudding. Boil a dozen or fifteen mealy potatoes, mash them quite smooth with a little butter and salt, and set them to cool. Beat three eggs well, and thoroughly mix them with the potatoes. Have ready three-quarters of a pound of sausage-meat, or the same weight of minced ham. Butter a mould or basin, and strew in as many crumbs as will hang to the butter. Put in a third of the mashed potatoes ; spread on this half of the meat; lay over another third part of the potatoes, on this the rest of the meat, and cover the latter with the remaining potatoes. Put a little butter on the top, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. If the mould is large, a pound of minced meat is not too much. Sausages parboiled, cut in halves the long way, and laid between the potatoes, as above, answer well. 558. “ Kartoffel Ntideln ”—Potato Niidels. Grate a plateful of cold potatoes, mix them with three or four eggs, as many spoonfuls of milk, a little salt, and flour enougji dredged in to form a dough, just stiff enough to roll out rather thin. Cut out little round cakes. Put them in boiling water, to boil five minutes, then drain, and dry them on a napkin. Fry them a delicate brown. 559. “ Kartoffel, or SchUpf Nudeln ”—Potato Nudels. {No. 2.) Boil potatoes and let them get quite cold before they are used. Grate them on a coarse bread-grater. To a plate of grated potatoes, add a quarter as much flour; some use a third of flour. Mix a dough with a couple of eggs and a piece of warmed butter. Boll pieces of the paste into nudels, the size and shape of a finger, but a little pointed at both ends. Make butter hot in a flat stew-pan. Put in the nudels and shake them occasionally till all are tinged with colour. When done, beat up an egg or tv/o with a little milk or cream. Pour it among the nudels ; shake them up. Let them strain, and serve.