311 COFFEE. 1116. “ Mandel Syrup ”— Almond Syrup. Blanch and pound, as above, a pound of sweet almonds and an ounce of bitter almonds. Clarify a pound of sugar in a quart of water; boil it five minutes. Stir in the pounded almonds. Let them simmer a few minutes, and while hot strain the infusion through a napkin. Bottle and cork it well. Keep it in a cool place. A little of this in a glass of fresh water makes excellent orgeat. “VOM IL^lFFEE”—ON COFFEE. Of all beverages, coffee deserves a more general considera- tion in the English household than it has, and a better know- ledge of how it should be chosen and prepared from the beginning to the end. Families would soon find out the advantages of procuring the coffee in its raw state, and that it is a considerable saving to buy if by the hag, or less. It improves by keeping, and only requii-es to be kept in a dry place. Observation and attention to the peculiar colours, shapes, and sizes of the berries would soon make people acquainted ■with the kinds to he preferred. Not that the colours are always to be relied on, as they are sometimes given artificially, to make one sort represent another and better kind. Mocha is extensively adulterated with less expensive sorts that nearly resemble it in the size and shape of the berries; if a sample be washed in warm water between the hands, the difference may be detected. Water is a useful test for the quality of coffee in more ways than one. Good raw berries, when thrown into cold water, should sink at once ; if they float they are not good. Certain mixtures render the best coffee. Some kinds excel in aroma, others in strength, and these combined are the most satisfactory; they must, however, be roasted apart, for the reason that the berries of one sort may contain more moisture than those of another, consequently take longer to brown than the drier kinds. Mocha, and all the Arabian coffees known by that name, hold the first rank in point of aroma, but they are not of the Strongest. Next to these, the fine East Indian plantation