111 MEATS. flour again. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over ; add salt, pepper, and sufficient water or broth to make plenty of sauce. Cover close, and let them steam an hour. Carefully take off the thread when dishing. 419. “ Gespickle Fleisch Vogel”—Meat Birds Larded. Proceed with cutlets as above. Lay a slice of ham on each, then the forcemeat. Koll and skewer them together. Lard them with a small larding-pin, and finish as directed for the others. 420. “ Fricamiell"— Fricandell. Mince a pound and a half of veal, a pound of bacon, and if the latter is not very fat, two ounces of suet small. Soak half a pound of bread in cold water, and press it out. Add the gi’ated peel and juice of half a lemon, salt, pepper, a little sweet herb, some parsley, and two or three eggs, to bind the whole. Mix all thoroughly, and bake it an hour in a buttered dish only half fiUed with the mass. When the top is pale brown mix a little flour with broth, gravy, or milk, and pour it over. Let it bake some time longer. Before serving, pour off’ what gravy swims on the top, mix it with the yolks of two eggs; pour it again over the meat, and again set it in the oven for a few minutes. 421. “ Fricandellen ”— Fricandells. The above mass; but instead of baking as directed, form oval balls, and either fry them or bake them on a tin dish. These can be made with any remains of cold meat or poultry ; indeed, of several difTerent remains of roast or boiled meats mixed together. For veal, use ham or bacon and the veal seasonings. For beef, add chives or onion and a little mace. For pork, use a little sage with onion. Half an hour’s baking is enough when the meat has been previously cooked. 422. “ Kalbslcopf in Sulze ”— Calf's Head in Jelly. Lay a calfs head, the heart, and two feet in cold water for an hour or two. Bet them on the fire in just enough cold water to cover the meat. Watch for the scum rising, and take it off. Throw in a teaspoonful of whole pepper, the same of allspice, two bay-leaves, two large onions, and some salt. When the meat has simmered quite tender take it up