GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. better clone by a macbine ; then tbe fat mixed in, as above, and tbe filling done with tbe funnel. Oxen skins are proper for these. Let them be carefully prepared. Tie them securely at tbe bottom, and fill as tightly as possible, squeezing tbe meat down as it leaves the funnel. Tie them in lengths from ten to twenty inches. Let them lie a night after the first tying, then press and tie them closer. Fasten a piece of new tape at one end of each sausage, and wind it round, slanting up to the other end, then cross it back again the same way and tie it securely. Hang them for ten or twelve days in cool smoke. Juniper w*ood is used for smok- ing them where it grows. Keep them in an airy cool place. In filling these sausages, one cannot be too careful that no air spaces are left. "Where these are only suspected, prick through w'ith a long darning needle ; have this at hand, threaded and tied in a knot, that it may not get lost in the using. After the sausages have hung a month, they are ready to slice and eat raw. If preferred boiled, set them on the fire in cold water with a little salt in it the day after they are filled. Let the water come slowly to a scalding heat, then simmer for an hour, but do not let it boil. Take out the sausages, and w-hen cold hang them in smoke. Or they may be cooked as above after smoking. 1142. “ Schu'a7'z Wald Wiaste ”—Black Forest Sausages. These arc made of the wild swine pork, generally. Full grown swine of any country, especially those that are turned out to feed on acorns, &c., may be very profitably used for these excellent and useful sausages, which keep good any length of time. If the pork is large and well fattened, take the thick fat ofl' the loins close to the lean, without dividing it. Pickle and smoke this to make larding bacon. Use the lean parts and shoulders for sausages. To every ten pounds of lean, allow two pounds of solid fat. Mince them apart, chop the fat the size of large peas, and mince the lean to a paste. Some of these sausages are made with both fat and lean minced together, but not to a paste. The seasoning for every twelve pounds of meat must be : six ounces of salt, one ounce of coarsely ground black pepper, and a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre. Half a drachm of cloves, or a drachm of pimento is, by many, ground fine with the pepper. Mix the seasoning, and strew it in the