2go GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. day take out "tlie fruit, and drain it on a sieve or dish. Boil down the syrup to thicken, and when it is cold mix it with an equal quantity of pale brandy. Arrange the fruit in glasses and pour the brandy syrup over. Half a pound of sugar to the pound of fruit is sufficient. 1037. “ Kirschen in Branntwein ”— Cherries in Brandy. Choose large cherries, cut near two-thirds of the stem off each; shake them down in glass jars, putting a few cloves and pieces of stick cinnamon between. According to the sweetness of the cherries, mix about a pound, more or less, of sugar with the quart of brandy, and pour it over the cherries. Tie them over with bladder, and let them stand a fortnight in the sun. Or, fill wdde-necked bottles with cherries, shake them down till they are packed quite close ; fill up -with the spice, sugar, and brandy; cork them well, and place the bottles in the sun. 1038. “ Quitten in Branntwein ”— Quinces in Brandy. Boil quinces whole until soft enough to run a pin through. Claiify sugar as before directed ; and when clear beads form in the boiling, peel the quinces, lay them in, and give them one boil up. Put them away to'get cold as they are. Next day drain them from the syrup, and boil the latter down thick; let it get cold. ]\Ex it with rather more than an equal quantity of brandy, pour it over the quinces, and tie them over with bladder. 1039. “ Ohst in Flaschen ”—Bottled Fruits. The various ways of bottling fruit are nearly the same everywhere. Plums should be wiped and put into dry, wide- necked bottles, with well-fitting corks put lightly in. Goose- berries should also be picked diy, and before they are full- sized, well shaken into the bottles, and the corks but just inserted. Currants, cherries, &c., the same way. Put some hay or straw in the bottom of a boiler; wind some round each bottle as you pack them in upright. Pour in water up to the necks of the bottles. Make a fire under the boiler. Let the water come slowly to a boil. Observe when the fruit looks just scalded, then remove the fire from under it. Pour in a little cold water to chill the boiling, and when the bottles arc become quite cold in the water, drive in the corks