POULTRY AND GAME. 137 499. “ Gehrateiie Gans, mit Kastanien”—Roast Goose with Chestnuts. (No. 3.) Scald the chestnuts, and peel off their outer and inner rind. Put them in a stew-pan, with a piece of butter and a little broth or water, to steam rather soft, then till the goose with them. The goose must be well basted while roasting. Pour the fat off the bastings, stir some broth or water round the dripping-pan, or baking-dish, season it with salt and pepper, and serve it either with or without gravy added. Currants, or sliced almonds, are sometimes mixed with the chestnut filling, as also with the apple. Prunes, half-stewed, and mixed with apples, are also used. 500. “ Pdkel Gans ”— Pickled Goose. Cut off the legs, and divide the breast from the back, by cutting through the middle of the body. Thus the goose is parted into four pieces. Eub them with salt and a little saltpetre. Pack them close together in a dish, and set them in a cool place. In a few days, the back and legs may be stewed and seasoned to taste. The breast should be dried, covered with paper, and smoked; to be eaten raw, in thin slices, with bread and butter. The legs are excellent smoked and cooked in sour krout or beans ; or only the breast and legs may be pickled. Cook the back with the giblets. 501. Pdkel Gans”—Pickled Goose. (iVo. 2.) Rub the breast and legs with half a pound of salt and half an ounce of saltpetre. Let them lie in this three days, turn- ing them every day. Take them, wet with brine, and cover them well with bran, rubbing it in so that each piece is well coated with it. Cover with thin paper and hang them six days in smoke; after which, hang them in a cool dry place. When to bo used, rub off the bran with a clean napkin. They are eaten raw, sliced thin, with pepper and salt. The outside should be yellow, the fat white, and the lean red. “ Gansebriiste ”—goose breasts—are eaten, as above, with bread and butter. 502. “ Gdnseklein”—Goose Giblets. To prepare them. Singe and scald the wings and head. Cut off part of the beak. Remove the eyes. Scald and