GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 136 Season the gravy, and stir into it over the fire four well- beaten eggs till it thickens. Or prepare with it an oyster- sauce, well seasoned. Pour some over the turkey; serve the rest in a tureen. 496. “ Filter mit Kastanien ”— Turkey xjcith Chestnuts. Truss the turkey for roasting. Peel chestnuts enough to fill it; scald them and rub off their inner bro%vn skin. Sprinkle them with salt, and put them with a good-sized piece of butter in the crop and body of the turkey. If the latter is not large, steam the chestnuts in a stew-pan with a piece of butter tUl they begin to soften ; then fill them in and sew up the turkey. When it is done, take out the chestnuts with a spoon, and dish them apart with a little good white sauce pom-ed over them. The turkey must be well basted while roasting. Serve truffle or mushroom sauce with it. 497. “ Gansebratcn "—Roast Goose. When the goose is prepared for roasting, peel, wash, and wipe dry a plateful of good potatoes ; slice thin and cut them up into very little dice. Put two or three ounces of butter in a stew-pan, and when this .is hot put in the pota- toes, with a middling-sized onion minced fine, or very little garlic : a salt-spoonful when minced is enough of the latter. Cover the stew-pan and set it over the fire, shaking it often that none of the potatoes may burn. Steam them for a few minutes till half done, but not softened. Take them fi-om the fire and stm among them the finely minced raw liver of the goose; season well with salt and pepper, and a salt- spoonful of finely minced or powdered sage ; or, instead of the latter, a grate of nutmeg. Some prefer no flavour in this e.vceedingly good stuffing, but the potatoes, liver, a slight flavour of shalot or onion as above, and salt and pepper. 498. “ Gehratme Gaits "— Roast (roose. (A’o. 2.) Prepare the goose as usual for roasting. Peel and cut up apples into pieces the size of nuts or marbles. Fill the goose quite full with these, and close it with a skewer or sewing. Servo with a good made-gravy.