FISH. 4J boiling. Dish them on a napkin arranging them as a pyramid, the heads upright. Or : Proceed as above, and put in a good piece of butter to boil with the fish. When done, cut off the smaller claws, bruise these with a weight or in a mortar, and return them to the liquor the fish were boiled in. Let this simmer down to a sufficient quantity of sauce, which may be thickened with a little flour and butter, strained, and served with the fish hot. 145. “ Lacks zu Sieden"—To Boil Salmon. Put in the proper-sized kettle just enough water to cover the salmon, with a glass of vinegar, a good sprig of rosemary, two bay-leaves, a shaving of lemon-peel, salt, whole pepper, and six cloves. Cover, and let it boil; then lay in the fish and boil it gently about five or ten minutes, according to its size. Draw the fish-kettle back then and let it stand aside for a quarter of an hour. Serve the salmon with oiled butter and chopped parsley. If to be eaten cold :—Take out the salmon carefully. Let the liquor get cold, then strain ; add a little more vinegar and some Florence oil to it. Lay in the fish and serve thus. 146. “ Lacks zii Braten"—Fried Salmon. Cut the salmon in slices an inch and a half thick. Pepper them, bind a large sage-leaf on each side, and fry them in butter, or broil on the gridiron. Oil, lemon-juice, or vinegar may be served with it. 147. “ Marinirter Lacks"—MaHnaded Salmon. Cut slices a good inch thick, and spread fine oil over them. Fry them a delicate brown, not dark. When cold, lay them in a deep jar. Boil some vinegar with salt, pepper, a sprig of taragon, a couple of bay-leaves, a small onion, and bit of lemon-peel. When this marinade is cold, strain and pour it over the salmon j add a little fresh oil on the top, and keep it covered for use. 148. “ Lacks in Asjnc ”—Salmon in Jelly. Boil a nice piece of salmon in very little water, and in a saucepan that will just hold it, as too much water takes the flavour from fish. When cold, cut it in small square pieces. Have ready a well-seasoned, clear fish jelly, which must be