2 I 6 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. then the four whites whipped to a snow. Steam it an hour in a buttered mould. Pour a glass of rum over at the moment of serving, and set fire to it. Serve -with “ Pome- ranzen Chaudeau.” 783. “ Kartoffel Pudding ”—Potato Pudding. The potatoes must have been boiled the day before. Grate a pound of them fine ; sth- six ounces of butter to a cream, add six ounces of powdered sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, a quarter of a pound of almonds, blanched and pounded, or eight bitter ones instead; then add the potato flour, and, lastly, stir in the whites of the eggs, whisked to a stiff snow. Boil the pudding in a well-buttered mould an hour and a half. Serve white sauce over it. 784. “ Kainer Pudding ”— Imj^erial Pudding. Pound four ounces of almonds fine, sprinkling them with orange-juice while pounding. Stir them into four ounces of sugar and the yolks of six eggs; add the Avhites whipped to a snow, a little grated lemon-peel, and a pint of cream stirred in gently. Butter a mould well, arrange in it slices of almonds and thin candied lemon-peel; pour in custard gently. Steam the pudding an hour and a half. 785. Brenncndcr Pudding ”—Flame Pudding. Two ounces of butter stirred light, two ounces of sifted sugar, the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of fine flour, an ounce and a half of pounded almonds, and the egg-whites, beaten to a firm snow. Mix these well, then add enough stale sponge-cake, grated, to thicken the whole. Well butter a basin or mould, and, boil the pudding an hour without ceas- ing. Do not turn it out before the moment of serving. Put a small glass in the centre, and fill it with cither arrack, brandy, or rum, and let some flow over the pudding. Set fire to the centre and at once place it on table. 78G. “ Schiramin Pudding"—Sjmnge Ihidding. Warm two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, add a pint of milk and six ounces of fine flour, stir it until it boils well and no longer hangs to the sides of the pan. Let it get half cold. ^Meantime, boat two ounces of bntter to a cream, add to it a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, the grated