SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 273 with a knife. Warm a thin sheet tin, and rub it over with white wax. When this is cold, spread on it very thin oval cakes of the mass, about thi'ee or four inches long and two broad. Bake them in a moderate oven a pale yellow. Take them olf the tin with a knife while hot, and roll each round a small wooden roller; slip them off, and keep them warm until used, or put them in an airtight canister. 971. “ Marzipan ”— Marchpane. Blanch and pound together a pound of sweet and an ounce of bitter almonds, adding now and then a few drops of orange- flower water, or rosewater, to keep them from oiling. They must be pounded quite fine. Put the almond paste in a stew- pan with a pound of powdered sugar, and stir it over a slow fire till it forms a smooth paste that will receive the impres- sion of a finger without sticking to it. Then turn it out on a paste-board well-strewn with sifted sugar ; mould it into an oval form, and let it cool for use. It may be rolled out thin, cut into stars, rings, or round cakes, or any little fancy shapes; put them in the oven to bake slowly a pale yellow. Or: Roll out the paste as thin as possible. Cut it into pieces of equal size, or cut out round cakes ; lay one over another, with a layer of fine preserve between; brush it over with white of egg; stamp out little ornamental devices, or thin rings, and lay them on the large cake ; brush them over with white of egg glazing. Put them in a slow oven to colour a delicate yellow. 972. “ Citronen Schanm”—Lenion Rocks. Grate off the yellow rind of three lemons with half a pound of lumps of sugar; pound and sift the latter. Beat the whites of two eggs to a snow; add the sugar by degrees, and whisk it half an hour. Butter paper on tins ; set little rocks on them, and dry them in a cool oven. 973. “ Raisers ”— Merinciues. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to a very stiff snow. Pound an inch of vanilla quite fine in a mortar with two or three lumps of sugar. Mix this with a pound of sifted sugar, and add it by degrees to the egg snow, whisking all the while until the whole of the sugar is slowly scattered in. Make a T