I lO GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. the veal, and leave it to simmer till tender; then take the fat off the sauce, which must he served in a tureen. Garnish the meat with slices of lemon and rashers of bacon. 415. “ Kalhsleber Geschmort ”— Calf's Liver Stewed. Skin a liver and cut it in thin slices. Slice some onions and steam them in butter till yellow ; then put in the liver, with pepper and salt, and let it simmer or steam slowly, till done through, stirring it occasionally. Take up the liver with a fork; add some broth or water to the onions, with lemon-juice or vinegar, a nice browning, and a handful of bread-crumbs to thicken the sauce ; boil and stir this smooth; put in the liver to get quite hot, and serve at once. 416. “ Kalhsgeliime ”— Calf's Brain. Lay the brains in cold water to whiten. Put them in a stew-pan with a little water, a tahlespoonful of vinegar, an onion, two or three cloves, a little white wine, salt, and white pepper. Simmer the brains half an hour, then lay them on a sieve to drain. When cold, cut them in slices, and dip them either in butter or egg and bread-crumbs, seasoned with salt and white pepper. Fry them in butter. Serve as a side- dish or accompaniment to any delicate vegetable. 417. “ Mayonnaise von Kalbsyehirne "— Mayonnaise of Calf's Brain, Prepare and cool the brains as directed in the foregoing recipe. Divide them in pieces the size of a small walnut. Arrange them on a dish. Pour over a thick sauce Mayonnaise (see Index). Garnish with aspic or green pickles. 418. “ Flsisch Vogel"—Meat Birds, or Veal Olives. Cutlets of veal, or beef-steak, must be cut two or three inches broad, and four or five long. Beat them well. Prepare a filling of minced bacon, a little suet or marrow, shalot or chives, parsley, gi-atcd lemon-peel, thyme, salt, pepper, a slice of broad soaked in cold water and pressed out, or grated bread-crumbs, and an egg to bind the whole. Spread a layer of the filling on each cutlet. Roll them up egg-shaped and hind them so with thread. Dredge with flour, and put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter or fat bacon. Let them brown on all sides; then dredge with