GEKMAJSr NATIONAL COOKERY, 52 189. “ Estragon,” or “ Bertram Sauce ”—Tarragon Sauce. Brown some flour in butter, and thin it with brown gravy. Add a teaspoonful of finely chopped tarragon-leaves, a glass of wine, the juice of a lemon, and salt to taste. Sim- mer it a few minutes. If green tarragon is not at hand, use minced parsley and tarragon vinegar. 190. “ Pomeranzen Sauce zu Wilden Enten, dec."—Orange Sauce for Wild Ducks, dc. Boil the peel of two Seville oranges until soft; drain, and cut them in very thin strips. Put these in a saucepan with a glass of white wine and a cup of clear gravy without spicy flavour. Squeeze in the juice of the oranges; add a little cayenne pepper, and, if not acid enough, some lemon- juice. Pour the sauce over the ducks when served. 191. “ Gelhe Riiben Sauce”—Carrot Sauce. Grate a large carrot; warm a piece of butter in a sauce- pan ; put in the caiTot; add some good soup or gravy, salt, j)epper, parsley chopped fine, and a little lemon-juice. Let it stew till quite smooth and thick. 192. “ Sauce zu Kalbskopf”—For Calf's Head. Steam two or three sliced onions or shalots in butter till they are brown. Add a large spoonful of flour and some brown stock or broth, a sliced caiTot, a parsley-root, a bay- ' leaf, the peel and juice of half a lemon, some white pepper, and salt. Let all simmer half an hour; then pass it through a coarse strainer. Eeturn it to the saucepan to make it hot. Add a piece of fresh butter, a lump of sugar, a small glass of white wine, and cayenne popper and lemon-juice enough to make it piquant. 198. “ Saure Eier Sauce "— Sour Egg Sauce. Mix half a pint of two-thirds water and one-third vinegar. Stir into this the yolks of three eggs, a teaspoonful of flour, about an ounce of butter, and a grate of nutmeg. Stir the sauce actively over a brisk fire till it thickens and is at a boiling point; then take it olf, and, continuing to stir, put in two or throe little pieces of butter, some salt, and a dust of white pepper. If not sour enough, add Icmon-juice.