2I8 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. of the eggs whipped to a stiff snow. Butter a good-sized pudding-mould, put in some of the rice, and place on this, edgeways and lengthways, some bitter macaroons, then rice between and over them, again macaroons and rice until the mould is full. Use about four ounces of macaroons. Cover the mould with its own lid, and boil the pudding two hours; or, if you have not a mould with a cover, tie over a cloth, and steam the pudding two hours and a half. Serve with “ Schaum ” sauce. 791. “ Schwarz Brod Pudding ”— Broxcn Bread Pudding. A quarter of a pound of butter stirred to cream, three ounces of powdered sugar, two ounces of coarsely pounded almonds, two ounces of sultana raisins, the same of currants, half a lemon-peel grated, a little spice, the yolks of six eggs, and a basinful of brown bread grated. These must be all well mixed, with milk or wine enough to moisten the whole : then stir in the whites of the eggs whipped to a snow. Boil the pudding an hour and a quarter in a well-buttered basin. Serve either with a pudding sauce or with sifted sugar over it. 792. “ Paim Pudding, Kaltc"—Bum Pudding, or Bum Favourite, Cold. This pudding is often deservedly called “Bum Favourite,’’ being always welcome at dinner or supper. Soak an ounce of gelatine in a pint of cold milk ten minutes, then stir it over the fire to dissolve. Grate the yellow rind of two lemons off with six ounces of lump sugar ; throw these into the hot milk. Stir the yolks of ten eggs into a pint of cream or good milk, add this to the gelatine milk, set it over the fire, and stir with the wire rod until it is scalding hot, then take it from the fire and stir it gently till half cold. Stir in a gill of fine rum. Oil a mould or two with fresh Florence oil, or dip them in cold water, and fill in the cream. 'When perfectly cold, turn the pudding out; squeeze the juice of a lemon over when taken to table. If preferred a deeper yellow, steep a pinch of saffron in a spoonful of water, and with this colour the cream while warm. 793. “ Beis Pudding ”— Bice Pudding, Boiled. Scald a quarter of a pound of rice through two waters. Strain, and set it over a slow fiiro in a pint of milk, to boil