GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. -:6 17. “ Krehs Suppe ”— Crayfish Soup. From twenty to fifty crayfish, according to the quantity ;of soup required, ,should be thrown into boiling water, and left to boil a quarter of an hour. Pick out the tails and rest 'of the fish, cover the meat, and set it aside. Pound the shells and small claws, adding, by degrees, three or four ounces of butter. Put this mass into a small stew-pan, and stir over the fire until the butter Ls red. Add then a pint of clear white soup and let it stew slowly, half an hour; then strain it off and add to it suflicient well-seasoned white soup, which, however, must have no strong or prominent flavour. Put in the tails and the pickings of the fish; make the soup quite hot; beat up the yolks of two or three eggs in the tureen, pour in the scalding soup, and serve with either “ Klosse,” macaroni, nudels, croutons, or toasted roll. Note.—Crayfish prepared as above are excellent in Kaiser soup. 18. “ Kalbfieisch Suppe ”— Veal Soup. Allow a pound of breast of veal to a quart of water; but, if knuckle is chosen, double the weight. Let it come slowly to a simmer; add salt and skim it well; continue simmering for two hours at least. Eice, sago, or Ivldsse may be used to give it substance. Ten minutes before serving, add, in small pieces, either cauliflower, scorzonera, or asparagus, previously cooked. Finely minced chives may be thrown in at last, or an onion may have been boiled in the soup and taken out before the other vegetable is added. 19. “ Kalbfieisch Suppe ”— Veal Soup. {No. 2.) For a delicate and good veal soup, strain off the broth in which a breast or knuckle of veal has been boiled for table. Add some boiled rice, some small pieces of cauliflower or scorzonera, salt, a grate of nutmeg, a little shred parsley, and have yolks of eggs in the tureen, into which pour the scalding soup. 20. “Kalbsbriise,” or “Kdlbermilch Suppe"—Strectbread Soup. Put a sweetbread on the fire in cold water, with a little salt. When it is warm, pour off the water and supply fresh cold ; repeat this a few times, as fast as it becomes warm, which process whitens the sweetbread. When it looks deli-