264 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. powdered cinnamon, a drachm of pounded cloves, a quarter of a pound of candied peel, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Let sugar and treacle come to a boiling heat over the fire. Take it ofi“, and stir in the butter to melt; then add the spice and flour, and lastly the almonds, the peel, and soda. Let the dough stand a day, then knead it well to the. stiffness of light bread dough. Eoll it out near an inch thick, put it on a floured tin, and send it to the bakehouse to be slowly baked after the bread. Egg it over while hot, and cut it into large squares. 931. “ Baseler LeckerUin ”— Basle Dainties. A pound of honey, a pound of sifted sugar, a pound of fine flour, a pound of almonds sliced lengthways in their skins, two ounces of candied peel, the rind of a lemon cut small, half a nutmeg grated, a dozen cloves pounded, and a wineglass of rum. Melt honey and sugar over the fire, take it off, and stir in by degrees, first the flour and spice, then the almonds and peel. Knead all well together. Cover, and let it remain in a cool place five or six days ; then roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, and bake on tins, first made hot and rubbed over with white wax. "WTien drawn from the oven cut the cakes at once into oblong pieces, four inches long and two wide. Take them off the tins while quite hot. 932. “ Holldndische Krdcklinge"—Dutch Cracknels. Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of warmed butter, half a pound of fine flour, the yolks of two eggs, a table- spoonful of sour cream, a tablespoonful of bruised coriander- seeds. Mix these into a dough; break off pieces and roll them with the hands into ropes, trusts, or rings. Bake them in a moderate oven. 933. “ Schwaben Brod ”— Suabian Biscuits. A quarter of a pound of butter stirred to a cream, a quarter of a pound of sugar, the same weight of pounded almonds and flour, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a little cinnamon if approved. Mix all well together ; roll out and stamp with fancy cutters different little cakes. Brush them over with egg, and bake a pale colour.