GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 158 inch thick. Lay single slices on a well-buttered baking-dish or tin. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, baste with a little warmed butter and put them in a quick oven, to bake a delicate tinge of brown. Serve with roast of mutton or pork. 569. “ Zwiebeln mit Kdse ”— Onions with Cheese. Cut large onions into slices a good half-inch thick. Lay them on a buttered baking-tin as above directed, and bake them a nice yellow in a hot oven. "When coloured and rather soft, take them out, and sprinkle them with salt, and pepper ; cover each slice with a coating of grated cheese or put on each some thin slices of good cheese. Return them to the oven, long enough to melt the cheese. Dish them -with a fish-shce, to keep their form, and serve at once. 570. “ GefuUte Zivieheln ”—Stuffed Onions. Peel good-sized onions, and boil them ten or fifteen minutes. Drain them, take the middle leaves out, leaving in each a hole the size of a large walnut. Fill the hoUows with any approved minced meat, which must be well seasoned, minced very fine, and mixed with an egg to bind it. Set the onions close together in a baking-dish, baste them with hot butter, and bake them a delicate brown. 571. “ Zuckerschoten ”— Young Pea Pods. These are the same as zuckerschiifen; they are the flat pods before the peas are grown. String them like beans, snap and skin the shells. Put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a little gravy or broth, salt, and pepper. Either a small onion, a little mint, or a sprig of thjTne, may be steamed with them if approved. They must only be moist enough to cook soft, without burning. (Excellent with lamb, veal, or early fowls.) 572. “ Durre Erbsen ”— Drg Peas. After washing and picking, put the peas into boiling water and let them boil till soft; then strain them. Put a good piece of butter and a chopped onion in a saucepan, and when the onion has steamed a few minutes, put in the peas, with salt and pepper. Let them stew till done, shaking oc- casionally.