GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 26o into a dougli of light bread consistency. Put little lumps the size of a walnut on a buttered tin and set them to rise. When they are light, put in the centre of each half an almond, a raisin, or a dot of dried fruit, brush them over with egg and sugar mixed, or with egg and coarsely pounded sugar, and bake them in a quick oven ten or twelve minutes. 917. “ Waffeln ”— Waffles or Gaufres Must he eaten as soon as possible after they are made, or they become soft and tough. The waffle-iron must be made hot and then greased, before the batter is put in with a spoon. Every time a waffle is baked, any burnt batter, outside or in, must be scraped off the iron. Pounded almonds, lemon-peel, nutmeg, &c., may be used or left out, according to taste. It is better not to put sugar in the batter, as it causes them to burn and stick to the iron. {No. 1.) Half a pound of butter must be stirred to a cream, then stir into this, alternately, first a tahlespoonful of flour and then an egg, until half a pound of flour and six eggs are used. Thin the mass with half a pint of lukewarm milk, add a little salt, and stir thoroughly for twenty minutes. Make the waffel-h’on hot, grease it inside with butter or a piece of fat bacon, fill the deep side of the iron with batter, shut the iron slowly, hold it over a clear fire, turn it after a minute or two, so that both sides get done. They must only be a delicate brown. Knock the iron to turn them out. Sift sugar and cinnamon over. A teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon mixed with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, sifted, will be spicy enough. 918. “ Offleten TIV'’'’-’'- The same ingredients and process as for Waffeln No. 1, leaving out half the butter ; bake them either in gaufre-irons or like very thin small pancakes on flat buttered tins, and while hot roll them up like a cigar. 919. “ Waffeln ”— Gaufres. A Better Sort. {No. 2.) A quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of almonds well pounded, four eggs, four ounces of flour, and cream or milk enough to make thick batter. Proceed as above.