103 MEATS. Spread it thick over the inner side of the meat, roll and bind it in shape, or skewer it. Put it in a deep stew-pan, with butter, to brown on all sides ; then pour in water enough for sauce, a sliced carrot or two, a couple of bay-leaves, salt and pepper, and leave it, covered close, to steam an hour or two. The kidneys may be scored and browned with the meat. When ready to serve, take up the veal; strain the gravy, take the fat off, and add a cup of sour cream and two or three ounces of capers. Give it a boil, and pour some over the meat. 390. “ Brisolcttes ”— Veal Brisolettes. Brisolettes are nearly the same as “ Fleisch Vogel,” “ Fri- candellen,” or “ Klopps.” They are made, however, with raw cuttings of veal, minced fine, with one-third as much fat bacon, or suet. Soak some bread in cold water, and press it all out; season well, form small oval balls, roll them in egg and bread-crumb, and fry them in butter a delicate brown. 391. “ Pohmcher Bock ”—Polish Buck. Three or four pounds of the fillet of veal must be beaten with the rolling-pin or a heavy mallet, until the meat is quite soft, and spread out about an inch thick. Cut sardines and some fat bacon into small pieces, make holes in the veal here and there, big enough to admit these separately; rub the meat with slices of garlic or onion, grate here and there a very little lemon-peel over, pepper and salt it moderately; roll it up tight in a sausage form, bind it in a nice shape, spread warm butter all over, and roast it in a stew-pan. Ba^e it with milk and butter enough, tui’niug at times, until it is coloured a fine brown ; then cover close, and let it steam till the gravy is nearly dried away. Allow two hours at least for cooking. Do not take off the binding till quite cold. 392. “ Wiener Schnitzel ”— Viennese Cutlets. Divide veal cutlets into pieces of from two or three inches square. Beat them well. Turn them in well-beaten whites of eggs, and sprinkle with finely-grated bread. Fry them in fresh lard, and strew salt over when done.