148 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. just hold it, with butter at the bottom, and set this in a hot oven without the lid. As soon as it is hot, begin basting till it is nicely browned. Or it may be browned before the tire and afterwards put in a stew-pan with the bastings, the marinade, salt and pepper, and covered close and left to steam till quite tender, basting occasionally. "WTien dkhed, squeeze half a lemon-juice over it. Strain, thicken, and serve its own sauce, to which add a little red wine if requisite. 536. “ Gehratene luininchen ”— Boast Babbits. Rabbits dressed as described for hare are very good. A fine one filled with the forcemeat recommended for poultry, larded over the back, and roasted with frequent basting, is excellent; especially when, after it has acquired a delicate brown, you lay it in a stew-pan, adding the bastings, some milk, salt, and white pepper. Cover and let it steam an hour in this. Serve with its own sauce. Garnish with lemon. 537. Hii'sch Braten"—Boast Venison. Let the venison hang about ten days or a fortnight in a cool dry place. Then wash and wipe it. Beat it well and flay the skin ofif. Lard all over the fleshy parts with bacon strips a good two inches long or more. Roast or bake it with constant basting, for which use sour cream, or butter and milk. For sauce, add some water to the bastings, skim and strain it, and add salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. 538. “ Hirsch Braten"—Boast Venison. {Xo. 2.) When the venison has hung at least a week, beat it well and lay it in a marinade as directed for hare. Lard it in the same way. Baste with sour cream, and finish in a similar manner. Parboil carrots ; slice and lay them in the baking- dish among the bastings, and serve them with the roast. Serve, as well as its own sauce of the marinade and basting, another made one as per Index. 539. “ Hh'scJn'iicIcen, Kriistirt"—Saddle of Venison Crusted. The venison must be hung some time, but not long enough to be high. After washing, lay it in a broad pan to cook, with cold water enough to cover it; and in this put a small tea-cup of vinegar, two or three carrots, onions, bay-leaves.