TORTEN. 239 845. “ Blatter Torte, von Linzertcig ”—Linzer Leaves. A pound and a quarter of flour, three-quarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of sweet almonds, half an ounce of bitter ones, half a pound of sugar, the yolks of eight hard- boiled eggs rubbed smooth, three well-beaten eggs, and cream or milk enough to make a paste as before directed. Divide the mass into six parts; roll them out very thin, to about the size of a pudding plate. Lay these on a buttered baking-tin; brush them over with egg, and bake them in a cool oven a yellow colour. Slide them carefully off the tins while warm, the first one on to the dish in which it will be served. Spread over it any nice preserve or marmalade ; place a cake on it; then another layer of preserve ; then alternate cake and preserve, till the last cake is on the top. Cut it even all round, and sift sugar over, or ice it mth a snow of sugar and white of egg. 846. “ Krack Torte Crack Tart, Half a pound of blanched almonds pounded, quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of flour, and one egg. Mix these into a paste ; roll it out into a thin round cake ; bake it on a flat buttered tin in a moderate oven. When served, spread any fine preserve over, and ornament it with small ratafias, of which you may arrange a border round. Or, having baked small ornamental cut-out cakes of the paste, lay them on as ornament. 847. “ Apfelsinen Torte ”— Orange Tart or Cake. Make a paste as directed for linzer torte, using three- quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and pounded, three well-beaten eggs, and the yolks of three or four hard-boiled ones. Roll out the paste as thin as possible, so that it will hold together when moved ; it must not be more than the third of an inch thick. Lay a large plate on it to cut it round by. Form the cuttings of the paste into a small cord, either plaited threefold or twisted in two ; moisten the edge of the cake, and lay this round. Then bake it a rich yellow in a moderate oven. It must bo baked on buttered paper; indeed it may be rolled out partly on this, so laid on the flat baking-tin, and slid ofl’ by the aid of large knives