86 GERilAN NATIONAL COOKERY. instead of water, sufficient vinegar, and a glass of rum. Cover, and let it stew slowly three or four hours. TVTien done, take up the meat carefully. Lay it, the best side down, in a suitable mould or deep dish. Strain the sauce and skim off the fat. Add wine or vinegar, and a little cayenne pepper, to make it nicely piquant. Give a boil up, and pour it over the meat. Let it stand a night to get quite cold. Stand the mould in hot water for a minute before turning out the meat. Garnish it prettUy with lemon and beetroot or pickles. 336. “ Gehackter Braten"—A Meat Porcupine. JMince together, not quite to a pulp, a couple of pounds of uncooked beef, and half its weight of pork, fat and lean. Season the mince well with salt, pepper, a grated shalot or clove of garlic, a little nutmeg, and either half an ounce of dis- solved gelatine or two well-beaten eggs. Mix all thoroughly. Form a smooth oval shape, and lard it like a porcupine. Have a good piece of butter hot in a stew-pan, in which lay the meat, and let it brown nicely on all sides. An honr will do it. Serve with a gravy. K for a cold dish, pour over it some rich brown glazing. 337. “ Roulade von Oxenfleisch ”— Rolled Beef. Cut the bones out of ribs of beef, which must not be too fat. Any other part which you can arrange in a long roll w'ill do. Mince very fine a clove of garlic and a large onion. Cut two or three rashers of fat bacon into small dice ; mix it with the onions, and a plentiful seasoning of salt, pepper, and a little powdered cloves or mace. Sprinkle this all over the meat; roll up and bind it with string and skewers. Lay the roulade in a stew-pan A\ith some butter to brown ; then pour over it a glass of wine, a glass of vinegar, and a little broth or water. Throw in at the same time a couple of hay-leaves, two or throe slices of lemon, an onion, three cloves, and some black pepper. Let it steam slowly from two and a half to three hours. '\Mien done, skim the fat off the gravy, and throw in a brown crust or slice of toasted bread ; when this is soft, strain the sauce through a coarse sieve, and serve it in a tureen. Garnish the meat with lemon, &c.