94 GERilAN NATIONAL COOKERY. spoonful of flour in butter, with a finely minced onion. Add to this some of the liquor the tongue was boiled in, and some lemon-juice, nutmeg, white wine, pepper, and salt. Stir the yolks of two eggs into the sauce, and pour it over the tongue. 862, “ Gerdstete Oxmzunge ”—Fried Tongue. Boil a fresh tongue quite tender, and take the skin otf; cut slices a third of an inch thick ; rub them with salt and pepper, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in butter a delicate brown on both sides. Sprinkle wth lemon- juice before serving. 863, “ Plockjinken ”—A Smoked Meat Hash. Cut carrots into little dice or long strips; stew them quite soft in broth with butter and salt. Brown a little flour m butter, and drain into it the broth fi-om the carrots; add a little vinegar, sugar, and pepper; Stir and boil it to a creamy sauce. Cut up remains of smoked meat into small slices or dice ; add this to the carrots ; pour in the sauce; stir all to- gether, and leave it to stew a quarter of an hour. A minced onion may be stewed with the carrots if approved. Serve plockfinken with potatoes or klbsse. 364. “ Gehackter Braten"—Baked Mince. Mince together very fine two pounds of uncooked beef and one pound of pork. Mix it with three eggs, a quarter of a pound of warmed butter, two or three ounces of grated bread, a grated onion, a little allspice or nutmeg, and some salt and pepper. Shape the mass like a small loin of venison. Lard it with fat bacon in three straight rows. Lay it in a well-buttered baking-dish, and bake it in a brisk oven about three-quarters of an hour, basting now and then. Strew over a cup of grated bread as soon as the roast is coloured, then begin basting with a cup of sour cream or milk, and bake it another half-hour. Serve with a good sauce handed in a tureen. 865. “ Oxenschireife "— (Xr Tails. They must bo well soaked in water, divided at the joints in proper sizes for serving, and sot on the fire in cold water enough to cover them. As soon as they simmer, put to them