251 KUCHEN. 890. “ Sjieck Kitchen mit Kummel"—Bacon Cake with Caraways. {No. 2.) Having spread the paste as above, strew over the bacon cut small. Scatter caraway-seeds over. Mix two or three eggs with a cup of milk, and pour it over. Leave out the onion and pepper. 891. “ Zwiebel Kitchen”—Onion Cake. Slice thin three large Spanish onions, chop them small, put them in a stew-pan with three ounces of butter to steam a quarter of an hour; do not let them brown; turn them out to cool. Beat three eggs with a cup of milk or sour cream. Add a few caraway-seeds, and three ounces of ham or bacon cut small. Mix the whole with the onions. Roll out a thin tart paste which has salt in it, or put a little salt to the onions. Spi’ead the mass over a third of an inch thick, and bake it in rather a quick oven. 892. “ Zwiebel Kitchen”— Onion Cake. {No. 2.) Halve and boil half-a-dozen large common onions ten minutes ; drain and chop them. Mix with them a piece of butter, two eggs, two or three grated cold potatoes, two rashers of bacon cut small, a few caraways, salt, white pepper, and a teacup of milk. Spread a thin common paste over a large flat tin. Pinch up a little edge. Spread over the mass and bake at once. 893. “ Braimschweiyer Kitchen”—Brunswick Cake. Ingredients :—Two pounds and a half of flour, a pound of butter, six eggs, and the yolks of six others, six ounces of sugar, a grated lemon-peel, an ounce of sweet almonds, and a dozen bitter ones, blanched and pounded ; half a pound of raisins, half a pound of cuiTants, half a nutmeg grated, two or three ounces of yeast, or two ounces of dried yeast, and a pint of milk. First stir the butter to a cream; add by de- grees the other ingredients. Let the milk be lukewarm, and stir the yeast into it; add this to the butter, and, by degrees, the flour. Beat the whole to a light dough, and lastly add the currants and raisins. Dredge with flour a flat baker’s tin, that has an edge turned up all round ; turn the dough on to this, and spread or roll it out half an inch thick or less. Set it in warmth to rise. When it is some-