MEATS. 127 the liquor the head was cooked in to a creamy consistence. Add salt, pepper, vinegar, sage, and spice, or, instead of spice, an onion -with two or three cloves stuck in, which must be taken out after. Let this sauce boil down to half a pint; then stir in the meat; let it stand by the fire a few minutes. Put it in a mould, and set it in a cool place till next day. 4G8. “ Klopps von Schiveinefleisch ”— Pork CoUops. Mince a pound of young pork and two ounces of fat pork ! or bacon quite fine. If the pork has a good proportion of fat, no other is needed, but use more of the pork. Mix it with a quarter of a pound of grated bread and two well- beaten eggs. Season with salt and pepper. Form balls, and flatten them the size and shape of Normandy pippins. Dip them in egg, and fry them in hutter a delicate brown. 469. “ Geschmorte Klopps ”— Pork Collop)s Stewed. Having stewed any cuttings or bones of fresh pork for gravy, season it with pepper, salt, and any approved flavour; strain, and make it boiling hot in a stew-pan ; lay in the klopps, made as above, simmer them ten minutes on one side, then turn, and do them on the other. Take them out, and keep them warm while you add some nice thickening and a little shalot or some capers to the gravy. Or, make a white sauce, squeeze some lemon-juice over the klopps, and pour the sauce over.—They are good with cauliflower or other vegetable, and equally good eaten cold with salad. In the latter case, omit the white sauce. 470. “ Klopps in Krduter Sauce' ’— Poi'k CoUops in Herb Sauce. Shred parsley, chives or shalot, and a little sage, with a very little tarragon if approved. Steam these in butter a few minutes, keeping them stfired in a broad stew-pan. Add a little white wine and the juice of a lemon, with enough gravy or water to keep the klopps from burning. Lay them in; stew them on one side ten minutes; then turn and leave them to simmer a quarter of an hour on the other side. Servo them in a wreath, in the middle of which arrange some sliced potatoes delicately fried in bntter. Add enough well-seasoned gi’avy to that in which the klopps were cooked, and serve the sauce in a tureen.