SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 261 920. “ Waffeln ”— Gaufres of Sour Cream. {No 3.) Half a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, six fresh eggs, twelve bitter almonds pounded, half a wineglass of rum, a little nutmeg or grated lemon-peel, and half a pint of thick sour cream. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in by degrees the yolks of the eggs, the flour, the cream, and flavouring, and lastly the whites of the eggs whisked to a snow, and the rum. Bake the wafers by moderate heat only a yellow colour. Sift sugar and cinnamon over while warm. 921. “ Hefen Waffeln"— Yeast Gaufres. Half a pound of butter stiiTed to a cream, four eggs, a good tablespoonful of yeast, stirred into half a pint of luke- warm milk, a little salt, and flour enough to form a batter. Proceed as above. 922. “ Easier Lebkiichen ”— Basle Gingerbread. Mix together in a pan a pound of sugar, half a pound of almonds cut in thin slices, half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, half a nutmeg grated, two ounces of candied peel sliced, and the grated rind of a lemon. Pour over these a pint of boiling-hot honey and a small wineglass of brandy. Work in by degrees a pound and a quarter of flour. Knead the dough well, roll it out very thin, and as square as possible, so that you can fill the flat baker’s tins, which must be buttered. Bake the cakes in a slow oven a pale brown. As soon as they are drawn from the oven, brush them over with a glazing of white of eggs and sifted sugar, cut them in pieces four inches long and two wide, and loosen them on the tins to cool there. Keep them crisp in canisters. 923. “ Lebkuchen ”— Thin Gingerbread. {No. 2.) This is excellent. A pint of honey, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a pound and a half of fine flour, a quarter of a pound of almonds in the skins, each one sliced into four or five, half a pound of mixed candied peel, sliced and cut up half an inch long, the peel of a lemon cut very small, half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, a drachm of powdered cloves, half a nutmeg grated, a small glass of rum, and a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda.