“KLOSSE. 177 tf Add salt and a little nutmeg. Mix all well together with a wooden spoon. Form little balls, and boil them gently nearly ten minutes. If in water, it must have salt in it, and be boUing as the klbsse are dropped in. Add them to soup when it is in the tm'een. 633. “ Kartoffel Klosse mit Kdse ”— Potato Klosse with Cheese. Stir four ounces of butter to a cream. Add three-quarters of a pound of grated potatoes, a quarter of a pound of grated bread, four eggs, leaving out two whites, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, ajittle salt, and nutmeg. Mix well, and take up portions the size and shape of an egg, for which purpose use a metal spoon, dipped in water each time. Boil them ten minutes. In the meantime, melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan, and crisp in it a few bread-crumbs a pale brown. Dish the klbsse ; sprinkle over them the crumbs and oiled butter, and serve dii-ectly. 634. “Kartoffel Klosse mit SchnittJuuch”—Kartoffel Klosse with Chives. With or without cheese. Grate three-quarters of a pound of potatoes. Soak a quarter of a pound of bread, and press it out. Mix it with the potato. Add salt, finely minced chives, a tablespoonful of flour, three well-beaten eggs, and a little nutmeg. Stir all well together; form klbsse with a metal spoon ; drop them into boiling water or broth to boil ten minutes. Take them out with a skimming-ladle; pour over them a little oiled butter with crisped bread-cnimbs as in No. 633. Or, cut very small a couple of rashers of fat bacon. Fry them crisp and pale brown, and strew them with their oil over the klbsse. 635. “ Fleisch Klosse ”—Meat Klosse. Mince fine any cold meat or poultry. Soak an equal quantity of bread, and press it out. Mince some parsley and chives, or onion. Cut up a slice or two of bacon into little dice, and fry them in a stew-pan; then add the above, with an egg stirred in. Let all cook a few minutes. Turn the mass out to cool. Mix in two more eggs, with salt and pepper, and either boil as before directed, or fry them. Serve with any piquant sauce or gravy. N