SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 265 934. “ Kastanien Brod”— Chestnut Biscuits. Bake or boil some chestnuts, peel and skin them ; pound six ounces in a mortar, mix them with a quarter of a pound of sugar, the same of flour, and four eggs. Knead into a paste, roll out thin, and cut into various little cakes. Egg them over and bake on buttered tins. 935. “ Springerle," or “ Tirgeli ”— Little Anise-seed Biscuits, (No. 1.) Half a pound of fine flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, two eggs, an ounce of butter, and a pinch of carbonate of soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of milk, or a little more if necessary. Form with these a dough, which must be well kneaded. Roll it out a quarter of an inch thick ; cut out little cakes with various fancy cutters. Sprinkle anise-seed over a paste- board, lay on this the cakes nearly close together, and let them remain all night in a dry place. Butter tins very sparingly, lay the cakes on with a knife, and bake them in a very cool oven a pale yellow. 936. ‘^Springerle”—Anise-seed Biscuits. {No. 2.) Mix the anise-seeds into the dough described in 935. The more general way of moulding the springerle is with various figures cut in wooden blocks. These are dusted with flour, the paste rolled out and cut into small pieces, which are then pressed into the shapes, the surface shaved off with a knife, and the devices turned out hy knocking the blocks as they are held upside down. Bake them very pale. 937. “ Mandel KolatcJien ”— Almond Knobs. Soften six ounces of hutter, mix with it in succession six ounces of sugar, two eggs, ten ounces of flour, half an ounce of bitter, and an ounce of sweet almonds, pounded. Form little balls the size of a walnut, flatten them a little, and strew them with almonds cut small and powdered sugar. Bake them pale in a slow oven. 938. “ Wiener Kolatchcn ”— Vie7ina Knobs. Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, stir into it the yolks of four eggs and two whole ones, half a pound of sifted sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and, by degrees,