GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. i62 minutes, put in the turnips with some salt. Let them steam till they are soft and yellow. Supply a little water to prevent their burning. 586. “ Geschmoi’te Gurken ”— Stewed Cucumbers. Peel large cucumbers, halve and quarter them, take out the seeds. Stew them till tender in a good white or brown sauce. They require but a short time to cook. 587. “ Sellerie Gerniise"—Stewed Celery. Cut the roots into nice pieces and boil them tender in just enough salt water to cover them. Then strain, and serve with a white sauce poured over. 588. “ Spinat ”— Spinach. Spinach requires to lie in water a little while, and to be several times rinsed in fresh water. Put it into boiling water with salt ; give it eight or ten minutes’ gentle boiling un- covered. If its earthy flavour is objected to, throw it into j)lenty of cold water when boiled enough ; then drain and press it dry. Chop it fine. Make butter hot; throw into it some grated bread-crumbs, then add the spinach. Or, make a thick butter sauce and stir the spinach into this to get thoroughly hot. Serve, garnished with either cutlets, sausages, hard-boiled eggs sliced and sippets of buttered toast, or poached eggs. If the full flavour of the spinach is liked, simply wash it well, clear it of the large stems, and drain it. Put a piece of butter in a saucepan, and when melted put in the spinach; cover, and as it shrinks put in more. Let it cook in its own juice. Sprinkle salt over as you put it in. 589. “ Spinat Stcngeln ”— Spinach Stalks. Spinach that has shot into seed renders a nice vegetable .still. Peel the stalks and cut them an inch or two long. Boil in salt water, strain, and pour over them a butter sauce, as for cauliflower. 590. “ S})inat mit Sardcllen"—Spinach trith Sardines. Boil spinach as above, with a minced onion among the leaves. Strain and chop it. Clear a few s.ordines from skin and bone; mince and stir them among the spinach. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in a stew-pan ; dredge in