397 Anthony Car^me. Anthony Careme? Did he not abandon the first families to write his cookery and the practice of some great contemporaries? for, observe you, Careme is not always peering a Brodignagian I under your nose, or flourishing the flaunting motto of “ Ego et Ilex Mens ” before your perplexed eyes. No, this good savoury Samaritan cook has some bowels, some thoughts of others, some kindliness for the absent and the departed. He seems always with the modesty of real merit to say, though of the strongest in his generation, “ Vixere fortes Agamemnona.” But his virtues were not merely negative, they were of the most positive kind. He would only accept places “ where his taste for study would not be interfered with for his ambition was “ serious and ele- vated.” Then he felt, poignantly felt, “ the misery of living among men destitute of education.” Rousseau, in that most eloquent of books, “ The Confessions,” tells us under what circumstances certain of his writings were composed. The gruff Sam. Johnson, the delightful debt-con- tracting Oliver Goldsmith, the ingenious and fantastic William Hazlitt are equally communicative; but, mattgre this copious sincerity, what are these men to Cai’eme ? Is there any one sentence in all they have ever written equal to the following ? “ From the time I arranged the sideboard of the S.axon ambas- sador, the thought of the ‘ Patissier Royale,’ and the ‘ Cui- sinier Parisien,’ entered my head.” Cause and effect are here beautifully, lucidly transparent. Dr. Brown and Dugald Stewart, and all the Scotch mystlfiers, might have written on the subject till the crack of doom, and left the dai-kncss more dim, and the subject more perplexed; it is only Careme who has made, in throwing off this bright sentence, the doctrine quite plain. “ It was at the little inn at Llangollen,” says Hazlitt, “ after a supper, that I wrote such a sketch ” (which he names). See how great geniuses fall on the same style and method. “ It was in the night,” says Careme, “ after a short sleep, that I lately dictated to my daughter my most recent chapters.” “ In the busiest period of my service with Alexander,” says this ingenious maker of sauces, “ I never once abandoned my evening notes.” Admirable, glorious man ! who will not think in reading this of the parallel passage in the life of I ox, who, in the busiest conflicts of party, left the blaze and bustle of the Commons to read Aristophanes, as the other great performer left