GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 278 992. “ Aprikosen ”— Apricots. They must be quite ripe. Peel them carefully, halve them, and take out the stones ; then weigh the fruit, and to every pound allow three-quarters of powdered loaf sugar. Put the fruit in an earthen or enamelled preserving-pan in layers, with the hollow side upwards, and sprinkle the sugar over each layer. Set it aside until next day; then set the pan over a clear, slow fire till the apricots are scalding hot, but not long enough to soften them. Take out the fruit with a perforated ladle, and carefully lay them to drain; boil the syrup till it thickens. Meantime, break the stones, and scald and blanch the kernels. Lay the fruit in preserve-glasses, with the kernels sprinkled between ; pour over the syrup, and cover with bladder. Apricots may be preserved whole in the same manner. 993. “ Aj>rikosen Marmelade ”—Apricot Marmalade. Proceed as above until the boiling of the fruit; then throw in the blanched kernels, and gently boil the whole, keeping it stirred until the fruit is dissolved and clear, and the colour gets a shade darker. Fill glasses or jars, and cover them air-tight. 994. “ Aprikosen Mus ”—Apricot Jam. Four pounds of apricots, two pounds of sugar, a wineglass- full of white-wine vinegar, and a quarter of an ounce of stick cinnamon. Clarify the sugar, peel and stone the fruit; put this with the blanched kernels, the vinegar, and cinnamon altogether into the boiling syrup, and simmer slowly till it becomes a smooth jelly. If after some time the preserve should get thinner on the top, and give signs of not keeping, boil it over again with a little more cinnamon. 995. Aprikosen in Essig"—Apricots in Vinegar. Four pounds of apricots, ripe but firm, a pound and a half of sugar, a pint and a half of white wine vinegar, a quarter" of an ounce of bruised cloves, and the same of cinnamon. Prepare the apricots as directed for preserving. Boil the sugar and vinegar till clarified; then take this sjTup from the fire