233 TORTEN. “ biscuit torte ” mass (see Index.) Divide this into the three tins, equally, so that each cake shall be, when baked, a good inch thick. Bake these a day before you want them. Rasp off the yellow of a lemon with lumps of sugar. Squeeze its juice on them, and put them in a pint of arrack or fine rum. Soak the cakes with this, and let them dry again. Cover one cake with a layer of any fine preserve ; lay another cake on it evenly; spread on this a layer of difierent jam, or marmalade, and put the third cake on it. Make an icing of the white of one egg whisked to a snow, a quarter of a pound of finest sifted sugar, and a large table- spoonful of arrack. Spread on the icing, and leave it to dry in a warm place. 826. “ Brod Torte”— Brown Bread Cake. Half a pound of blanched and a quarter of a pound of unpeeled almonds must be well pounded together. Mix with them, by degrees, a pound of sifted sugar, the yolks of twenty eggs, a spoonful of mixed spice, a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate, half a stick of vanilla pounded, and half a pound of stale brown bread grated and moistened with wine. Mix all thoroughly. Have the whites of ten eggs whisked to a snow, and stir this in lightly at last. Butter a large brioche or other mould, sprinkle it with raspings, pour in the mass, and bake it an hour in a moderate oven. This torte is much improved by an icing of the following;— 827. “ Chocolate Icing.” Three ounces of sifted sugar, two ounces of grated va- nilla chocolate, and the whites of two small eggs whisked well for half an hour, spread on the cake, and dried. 828. “ Brod Torte ”—Brotvn Bread Cake, (No. 2.) Pound in a mortar half a pound of sweet almonds in their peels, and with them half an ounce of bitter ones blanched; using white of egg to keep them from clogging. Mix these in a pan with three-quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, the yolks of sixteen eggs, the grated peel of a lemon, two ounces of candied peel, sliced thin, a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon, and half a nutmeg. Stir these for