GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 200 it. Dip an iron spoon in flour, and take up little balls of paste, the size of a large walnut; drop them into the butter, and fry them a bright yellow. Strew mixed sugar and cinnamon over when they are done. 719. “ Ofenschlupfer ”—A Delicious Baked Pudding. Pound in a mortar four ounces of almonds; mix in two tablespoonfuls of sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, and a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Cut light rolls into thin slices, well butter a pie-dish, and cover the bottom with slices of roll. Strew over half of the almonds, cover them with slices of the roll; sprinkle the almonds again, and lay on slices at the top. Put little lumps of butter over all. Beat eight eggs, mix them with a quart of milk and sugar to sweeten. Pour it over the bread, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, slip a knife round to loosen the sides; turn it out on a flat dish, and pour wine sauce over. 720. “ Badcner Nockerl ”—Baden Xockerl. Stir a quarter of a pound of butter to a light cream. Add by degrees the yolks of six eggs, and stir well a quarter of an hour; then add as much fine flour as will make a thick batter. Boil in a wide stew-pan a pint and a half of milk, with a piece of butter half the size of an egg, and a little sugar and grated lemon-peel ; lay as many tablespoonfuls of the batter in the boiling milk as the stew-pan will hold without touching. Cover and let them boil slowly till the milk has nearly boiled away ; then sift sugar over them, put on the lid, and cover it with red coals to colour the nockerl, or put the stew-pan without its lid in a quick oven. When tinged a delicate brown, dish and serve them. 721. “ Gcstiirzte Eier ”— Ocertunied Eggs. Butter well anj' pretty little patty-pans; strew them with raspings or grated bread. Carefully break an egg into each, and bake them with underheat only. When the white is set turn them out of the pans, face downwards, on spinach, ragout, &c. 722. “ Ochsenaugen "— Ox-eges. Cut slices of roll, or any light bread, rather less than an inch thick ; and with a round cutter, three inches in diameter.