374 Appendix. avoir bouche a cour et ^ 1’ armee parceque alors il ne lul conte rien.” Henry IV., for a long time, was as “ heinously unprovided ” (to use a Shakespearian phrase) as his royal predecessor. His finances were so straitened, say the “Memoirs of the Duke of Angouleme, “ que souvent sa table manquoit, et qu’il se trouvoit contraint d’aller manger chez quelqu’un de ses serviteurs.” Louis XIII. established, in a great degree, the luxury of Francis I.; and Louis XIV., to use the words of Le Grand, efluced even the re- membrance of the repasts of the most luxurious of former kings, by his elaborate feasts. It was under his reign that “collations grasses ” were eaten after dinner. Madame de Sevigne writes, in 1680, “ La Princessede Tarente m’a faite une collation en viande; je la lui ai rendue. C’est une sotte mode; je pense . que cela ne durera pas.” Belon, who published his “ Traite des Oiseaux,” in 1555, describes how magnificently the dinner tables were served in that day. “ Pour entrees,” he says, “ nous avons mille petits deguisemens de chair comme potages, fricas- sees, hachis, salades. Le second service est de roti, de bouilli, de diverses viandes, tout de boucherie que de gibier. Pour issue de table choses froides comme fruictages, laictages, et doulceurs, rissoles, petits choux tout chauds, petits gateaux caveux, ratons de fromage, pommes de capendu, salade de citron ou de grenades.” Gontier, who wrote in the seventeenth century, complains of the luxury of the dinners in 1668, at which period, he says, there were no less than eight courses. The “ Mercure Galant” gives a description of the royal banquet that w.as given at Versailles, for the marriage of ^Mademoiselle de Blois, natural daughter of Louis XIV., with the Prince of Conti. At this feast there were three courses of 160 dishes at each course. The first course was h.alf soups and half entrees; the second, half in entremets and half in roasts; the third, dessert. The roasts were all small, and the ortolans .alone cost 16,000 francs. Later in the reign of Louis XIV., the mode of serving din- ners in France a good de.al resembled the system followed in the present day. In the entertainment given by Louvois to the Queen at Meudon, covers were laid for nineteen, and there were four courses. The first course consisted of forty entrees, the second of forty roasts and salads, the third of hot and cold entremets, and the