38 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 136. “ Marinirte Haringe”—Marinaded Herrings. Lay white, salted herrings in milk or water for some hours to draw out the salt. Open them flat and take out bones and roes; do not break the latter, but halve them lengthways. Cut each half herring, slanting, into four pieces. Put a single layer of these in a glass or earthen jar. Lay between them some thinly-sliced shalot or onion, thin slices of lemon cut in four with two-thirds of peel taken away, here and there a piece of bay-leaf and a clove, with some bruised white pepper- corns. Thus complete the jar, with alternate layers of the herring, the roes, and the seasonings, all uncooked. Fill up with cold vinegar. Pour salad oil a third of an inch deep on the wnegar, which must cover the fish. Have onion, &c., on the top of the last layer. In two or three days they will he ready, and they will keep good a long time, afi'ording a nice relish for bread and butter, cold meat, or salads. 137. “ Gediinsteter Hecht”—Steiced Pike. Having cleaned and scaled the pike, lay it in plenty of salted water. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a stew- pan, with a large tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and either a shalot, an onion, a clove of garlic or some minced chives, a couple of slices of lemon, two or three cloves, salt and pepper. Cut up the fish into good-sized pieces. A pike of about four pounds’ weight is best this way. Add a glass of wine, the same of \dnegar, and a large cup of broth or water, to the stewed herbs. Lay in the fish packed closely together, cover, and let it simmer about half an hour. Mix three or four yolks of eggs with a cup of milk or cream. Pour this over the fish; strew in bread-crumbs to thicken the sauce. Let it come to a boil. Dish the fish carefully, put a piece of butter to melt in the sauce, and pour it over. 138. “ Gespickter Hecht ”—Larded Pike. Choose a largo fish. When cleaned, lard it thickly over with fresh bacon. Put butter in a baking-dish with a little water. Lay in the fish, in a ring, with the tail in its mouth; and bake in a brisk oven. When half done, strew fine bread- crumbs over, Avith pepper and salt. Baste occasionally, and when done a delicate brown, move the fish carefully on to a flat dish. Pour into the baking-dish a brown caper