GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. io8 408. “ Kalbjleisch Pilau ”— Veal Pilau. Put a breast of veal in a stew-pan, with a quart of cold water, a large onion, and a root of celery. Cover close, and let it simmer slowly an hour, then add a blade of mace, some coriander and cardamom seeds, four cloves, salt, and pepper. Leave it simmering while you melt two or three ounces of butter in another pan, and stir into this three-quarters of a pound of dry, large-grained rice. Stir frequently till it has acquired a nice yellow colour, then take up the meat, keep it warm, strain the sauce and take all the fat off; add the sauce to the rice, cover and let it steam, shaking often, till the rice becomes well plumped, soft, and dry. Now cut up the meat in portions to serve, lay them in a pile on a dish, cover them with the rice in a neat raised form, and garnish it with slices of lemon and hard-boiled eggs. 409. Gefilllte Leber, or Kalbsnetzivurst ”— Savoury Liver Mince in Caul, to eat cold. Mix about two pounds of calf’s liver, minced fine, a small onion, minced and bruised, and six ounces of fat bacon, cut into small dice. Put a small piece of butter in a stew-pan with the bacon and onion, to soften. As soon as the bacon begins to fry, add the minced liver and some salt and pepper, to season it well. Stir it over the fire till the liver is no longer red, then turn it out in a dish to cool. Beat three or four eggs and stir them into the mass. Sew a caul into a bag, and fill it with the mince. Melt a piece of butter in a stew- pan and lay in the bag. Let it steam an hour, turning it occasionally, that it may be well done through. This mince may be done in a basin without the caul. 410. “ Netzivurst”—Savoury Liver Mince in Caul, to eat cold. (Xo. 2.) Mince a calf’s liver. Soak in cold water six ounces of bread, and press it out. Mince half a pound of fat bacon ; beat three eggs. Mix all these together with salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pound of well-washed currants. Spread a caul over a deep dish (or fill the dish without the caul). Fill it with the mass, and skewer it together. Bake it sufficiently in a moderate oven. Pour off the liquid fat. Leave it to cool, then turn it out to cut in slices as it is wanted.