199 FARINACEOUS DISHES. cinnamon over when done. Or serve them either with sweet sauce, or with a tuft of preserve on each. By leaving out the sugar they are excellent with spinach, &c. 715. “ Nilrnhenjer Ei ”—Nuremberg Egg. Boil an egg hard and take off the shell. Dip it in batter and fry it pale brown in plenty of butter, keeping it turned in the pan. Dip it again and fry it rolling. Eepeat the coating of batter and frying till you have a large ball. Serve with wine-sauce poured over. 7IG. “ Oeschnittene Eier ”—Sliced Eggs. Melt butter in a frying-pan, strew in some chopped parsley or chives, and a handful of bread-crumbs. When these are a little crisped, stir in a small cup of sour cream and some salt. Slice hard-boiled eggs, and lay them in close together. Let them fry a minute, after sthring them gently into the cream. 717. “ Wiiidbeutel”—Eejjhyrs. Put a pound of water and half a pound of butter in a stew- pan over the fire. Stir in, by degrees, half a pound of fine flour, and stir on till the paste parts from the sides of the pan. Take it from the fire to get half cold, stirring now and then. Beat eight eggs thoroughly, and add to them some gi'ated lemon-peel; then, while the paste is still warm, stir the eggs well into it. Have a flat tin dusted Avith flour, and with a spoon dipped in water each time take up a ball of paste the size of a large walnut, and drop it quickly on the tin, leaving space between to allow of the balls puffing twice their first size. Put them instantly into a quick oven to bake a bright yellow. A short time will do them. Sift sugar over, and serve them while crisp. Note. —These very nice puffs may be varied by malcing a little incision on the top, as soon as they are taken from the oven, and putting in with a narrow spoon, or its handle, either a little lemon or other syrup, or fine preserve. 718. “ Ziiricher Kuclili"—Zurich Fritter Balls. Boil new milk with a Uttle salt in it. Dredge in flour, and stir till it is a stiff batter, and no longer hangs to the sides of the pan. Flour a flat dish, and turn out the paste on it. Have ready a frying-pan or iron skillet, with boiling butter in