313 COFFEE. 1118. Kdffee zu Eosten"—To Roast Coffee. {2^o. 2.) An iron stew-pan is commonly used for roasting coffee in districts where the drum never made its appearance. A little piece of butter half the size of a walnut is melted in the pan, then the colfee berries put in and the lid put on. Every minute it must be shaken and tossed without removing the hd. Have a wooden spoon at hand—one kept for the purpose—and when the coffee begins to smoke and crack, draw it quickly from the strong heat and stir it thoroughly till it is nicely coloured. It will burn in half a minute by too strong a fire. Finish as per last recipe. 1119. “ Kaffee zu Maiden ”— To grind Coffee. Much of the goodness of coffee depends on the grinding. If ground too finely the infusion will not be so clear as when the berries are ground moderately coarse. It should not be ground before it is wanted for use, as, nothing so soon loses its flavour, which pervades the atmosphere if the coffee is left in its powdered state uncovered. Before the grinding, calculate how many may take coffee and allow as much as is likely to be wanted. The improved coflee mills of Messrs. Spong and Co., 28, King William Street, Strand, are admirable in their action, as the required fineness may be regulated in a moment while grinding, by merely touching a little handle. 1120. “ Kaffee und Surrogate "— Coffee and Surrogats. The very fi-equent error of using chicory in large quantities as an addition or improvement to coflee should not be encouraged. The dark colour it gives is only regarded with suspicion. Colour is by no means an indication of strength in coffee, and chicory, when taken constantly, is not consi- dered wholesome. If any substitute is wished, for the sake of economy, bailey, roasted and ground as coffee and mixed in ample proportions, will be found to answer every purpose, and be nourishing as well. Carrots cut into pieces the size of coffee beans, then dried, roasted, and ground, are much used by people of small means in Germany to mix with coffee, and they really impart a richness to the beverage. Acorns are also prepared in the same way, and mixed with