54 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 200. “ 8peck Sauce zu Salute ”—Bacon Sauce. Cut a quarter of a pound of rather fat bacon into dice, no larger than a good-sized pea. Fry it a pale brown in a little saucepan. Mix a spoonful of flour with water. Stir into this the yolks of three eggs and a teacupful of water and vinegar in equal parts. Add salt and pepper. Pour all upon the bacon, and stir until it becomes a thick sauce, but not too thick to pour when cold. 201. “ Speck and Zwielel Sauce ”— Bacon and Onion Sauce. Eashers of streaked bacon or of ham, cut into very small dice, must be fried a minute slowly in a stew-pan ; then add two or three flnely chopped onions ; stir them amongst the bacon; dredge mth a little flour, and keep stirring till the onion is coloui'ed a pale brown. Add salt, pepper, a wine- glass of vinegar, and the same of water. Stir well for a minute or two and pour it over potatoes. This is eaten without meat. Small potatoes boiled in their skins, then peeled and sliced thin and the above poured over, gives a popular form of potato salad. Or the sauce served in a tureen is excellent wdth veal cutlet, boiled fowl, &c. 202. “ Truffel Sauce ”— Truffles Sauce. Wash and peel half-a-dozen truffles ; put them, sliced, in a stew-pan, with one or two shalots or a little onion and parsley, a piece of butter, some salt, and a glass of wine. Let them stew, closely covered, till reduced and soft; then add sufficient broth, or gravy and water, a little grated ginger, and some flour thickening. Boil again ten minutes and skim the fat oflf. This sauce may be made bro\vn or white, according to either of the methods alread}’ described. 208. “ Schwarze Sauce”—Black Sauce, for Game, Fish, Cutlets, d'c. Brown two tablespoonfuls of flour and a chopped onion in butter ; add some brown stock or gra\y, a bay-leaf, three cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, some salt and black pepper, a dozen crushed juniper-berries, two tablespoonfuls of black currant preserve, a tablcspoonful of vinegar, a glass of red wine and a spoonffll of Chili vinegar, or, instead of this, a little cayenne pepper. Boil a few minutes and strain the same.