GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 122 454. “ Saurer ScJmemehraten ”—Pork'Marinaded. (No. 2.) The shoulder of young pork is best for this. Do not skin it. Lay the meat in the salting-pan ; pour a teacupful of vinegar over it; shce half a lemon and two onions into the dish ; throw in twenty bruised peppercorns and twenty juniper-berries, two bay-leaves, six cloves, and a dessert- spoonful of salt. Turn and rub the pork daily with the seasoning. In four or five days it will he ready. Bake or roast it, basting frequently with its own pickle; but leave out paid of the lemon. Water enough must be added to the pickle to make gravy, which must he strained, and seasoned with salt and pepper. 455. “ Saurer Schu'einskopf ”—Pig's Head Piquant. Prepare the head with the above marinade. Dry it well; spread warmed butter over, and brown it in a deep stew- pan, but only a dark yellowish colour. Then pour in a little water to the marinade, and add it to the meat. Cover and let it steam an hour, at least, in its own sauce, basting now and then. Skim and strain the sauce for table. 456. “ Schweinsbraten mit Haringe ”—Boast Pork with Herring. Neck, breast, or loin of pork must be well beaten, and the bones taken out. Clean and hone a Dutch pickled herring, cut it in strips, pepper them, and vith a larding-pin stick them all over the meat. Roll it up with a few sUces of lemon outside. Skewer and bind it neatlj'. Put it in a stew-pan with butter to brown slowly; then add some water for basting. Serve wth its own sauce. Sauerkraut as accompaniment. 457 . “ Spanfcrkcl ”— Sucking Pig. A young pig for roasting should be about fourteen days old. One weighing from six to seven pounds is the best. When carefully scalded and cleaned by the butcher, draw out the inside without cutting the pig open all along. Take out the eyes, wash the pig, wipe it dry inside and out, and hang it for a day. ^\Tien dressing, boil the heart and lights in a little water ; then mince them fine, and with them the raw liver. Mix these with an equal quantity of fine bread-crumbs. Beat a