229 PASTIES. minute or two and turn it out. This pastete is cut through downwards like a cake. 815. “ Schussel Pasteten ”— Pies. These are so similar to all well-made English pies, that it is unnecessary to describe them here. Whether of poultry, veal, game, or fish, they are prepared by marinading and cooking first the meat to be used; or in every particular prepare a fricassee, as described under its respective heading; let it get cold, then pack it in a pie-dish with or without forcemeat under and between. Bake it with an edge and cover of paste, and pour the hot gravy in when done. 816. “ Fisch Pastete ”— Fish Pasty, Choose any thick, firm fish, clear it from skin and bone. Mince half of the fish quite fine. Sprinkle with salt the other half, cut it into neat pieces, and having melted a good piece of butter in a stew-pan, lay in the pieces of fish to steam about a quarter of an hour, then take them out. Put some more butter in the stew-pan with a cup of milk, a couple of minced onions or shalots, a good handful of parsley minced, a very little nutmeg or mace, and grated lemon-peel. When the onion is done soft, set the pan aside to cool a little; but, while still warm, stir in four eggs well beaten, and if you have in all four pounds of fish, have at least six ounces of butter in the stew-pan. Add to this half-a-dozen sardines, scraped and cut in small pieces, the liver of the fish minced, a good seasoning of white pepper, salt, and a spoonful of capers. Then mix in the minced fish, stir all well together. Butter a pie-dish ; lay some of the mince at the bottom, then put in the solid fish with mince between till the dish is full, rather piled up. Cover with a butter crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. 817. “ Fisch Pastete”—Fish Pasty. {No. 2.) Cut any solid fish in neat pieces—it must be cleared of skin and bone. Mix a seasoning of finely shred parsley, powdered marjoram, salt and pepper. Strew this over the fish ] dip each piece in warmed butter on every side, and put them in a pie-dish, leaving room for liquid to flow between. Beat four or five eggs well and mix them with half a pint to a pint of cream or good milk. Put halved oysters or sar-