4 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. and prepare a soup, by adding a small faggot of sweet herbs, parsley, celery, and some good beef-steak or gravy. Thicken it with flour, but not too much. Add salt and pepper. Have some very small potatoes half-boiled in water; add them to the soup ; let them boil until done through, but not broken. Cut up the meat of the duck and giblets, and ser\'e it in the tureen. 11. “ Gdnseklcin Sujtpc ”— Gihlet Soup. Goose giblets, prepared and stewed tender in enough water to cover them, then added to the Pomeranian soup. No. 9, makes an excellent soup. The giblets should be cut up in small portions before they are put in. 12. “ Gdnseklein Sitppe ”— Gihlet Soup. {Xo. 2.) Stew the giblets wmll, with a sprig of sage, a sprig of winter savory, a good-sized onion, salt and pepper. In the meantime, boil a quart of white beaus tender; mash half of them, and pass them through a sieve. Take up the giblets and cut them into small pieces. Mince the liver fine, or mb it smooth. Eetmn these to the gravy; add all the beans, and sufiicient broth or w'ater to form a thick, creamy soup. The beans should soak all night in plenty of cold Avater. The water in Avhich the beans were boiled must be put Avith them into the soup. 18. “ Yager Siippe"—Himter's Soup. Slice thin a large carrot, or tAvo or three small ones, a large onion, a head of celery, and some rather lean ham or bacon. Fry these, Avith some parsley, in butter. IVhen done yclloAV, dredge in plenty of flour and let it colour, but not a dark broAvn. Then add some good beef-broth, give it an active stir, and turn it into the soup cauldron ; add the requisite quantity of broth and a pint of red AA'ine. Leave it to simmer sloAvly. In the meantime, roast three or four partridges, basted Avith butter. Cut ofl’ the breasts in neat slices, and the other meat from the bones. Bruise the bones in a mortar, and throAV them into the soup. Boil it well, strain, season Avith salt and cayenne pepper, and make it hot again, but do not let it boil a second time. Add the meat, to be served in the soup.