PUNCH. 305 1093. “ Schlemp"—A Dutch Tea. Put into a teapot a large tablespoonful of green tea, and a tablespoonful of crushed or pearl barley, an inch of cinna- mon, four cloves bruised, a pinch of saffron, and a grate of nutmeg. Fill the teapot with boiling water, put a cork or paper stopper in the spout, and leave it to draw by the fire for an hour. Then boil three pints of milk; pour off the tea into this, stir it into the yolks of three or four eggs, and serve it hot in teacups. 1094. “ CramhamhoU ”— Cramhamholi. “ Crambamboli ” has been much sung about by the student class in Germany. Its preparation, doubtless, con- tributes very mtich to convivial enjoyment. Put a bottle of rum in a punch-bowl. Have ready a lump of sugar, weighing near a pound, and a suitable pair of tongs to hold it. Sprinkle the sugar with rum and set fire to it. Or, set fire to the rum, and hold the sugar over the flame, till all is melted away into the bowl, or the spirit flame burnt out. Throw in the remains of the sugar, if any, as the flame is extinguished. 1095. “Crambamboli”—Crambamboli. (No. 2.) Put a bottle of good wine in a china bowl. Lay iron skewers or any wire net over the bowl, and on this lay a lump of sugar of about a pound, moistened with rum or fine arrack. Set fire to the sugar and let it burn till all has melted into the howl; then pour in a pint or full hottle of champagne. There being no reason why ladies might not partake of this “ festive bowl,” they would find it very good diluted with cold water. 1096. “ Eier Punsch”—Egg Punch. Rasp the yellow ofiT four lemons with a pound of sugar lumps. Put this sugar and the juice of the lemons in a skillet, with a quart of good wine and a pint of either arrack, rum, or brandy. Whisk twelve eggs thoroughly, adding to them, by degrees, a pint of water. The eggs must be whipped up to a good froth; then add them to the ingre- dients in the casserole, set it over the fire, and whisk the contents without ceasing, till they are quite hot, and the froth high on the top. Serve it in large glasses. X