132 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. beaten egg; mix powdered cloves and sugar with grated bread, strew this thickly over the ham, and put it in a quick oven to brown. 486. “ Gebackener Schinken”—Baked Ham. , Soak a ham properly; pare away all the brown, smoked parts from the under side. Cut off the skin smoothly, and chop off’ the knuckle. Powder some dried sage, three or ■ four bay-leaves, according to their size, and pound fine a dozen of cloves; mix these seasonings with a large teaspoon- ful of fine pepper. Strew the seasoning all over the ham. Roll out bread-dough three-quarters of an inch thick, and cover the ham with it so closely that the meat juices cannot escape. Bake it in a moderate oven from three to four hours. Break off the crust before the ham is more than half cold. Glaze or garnish it as usual. 487. “ Gebackejier Schinken ”—Baked Ham. [No. 2.) Prepare the smoked ham for boiling, as above. Chop fine a mijfture of green herbs, especially chives, sage, thyme, parsley, basil or marjoram, and a few leaves of tarragon, but more of chives than the rest. Strew the herbs well over j the ham and case it in a thick bread-dough. See that the dough is so well closed all over that no juice can evaporate. Bake the ham from three to foui’ hours, according to its ■ size. A baker’s oven is best. i Finish as before directed. ; 488. “ Schinken in Burgunder"—Hatn in Burgundy. Having soaked the ham as usual, simmer it slowly three or four hours in just enough water to cover it. As soon as it simmers, put in with the ham two or three onions, a hand- « ful of sage, and a bunch of any other herbs, including bay- i leaves; throw in also a good spoonful of pepper. When the 5 ham is done take off the rind, and slice away any brown ; outside and superfluous fat. Lay the ham fat side upper- most in a baking-dish. Mix a pint of strong gravy or stock, a bottle of red wine, and three ounces of sugar. Let these come to a boiling heat in an enamelled stew-pan, then pour the sauce over the ham, set it in a hot oven and baste it | frequently until it is glazed a fine pale brown, and the grav’y | wasted to a syrup ; skim the fat off this. Add some brown I