GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 2Q2 1042. “ Gtirkcn ah Essu/ Mantfo ”— Cucumbers as Mairr/o Pickles. Choose cucumbers full grown, but not too old. Cut a piece out of the side of each, and scoop out the seeds and pulp. Strew salt over and let them lie a night. Take equal quantities of horseradish, shalots, and capers or green nas- turtium-seeds, cut them up the size of peas; mix with these nearly a fourth part as much mustard-seed, some white pepper- corns, a few bruised cloves, and a part of a nutmeg grated. Dry the cucumbers and fill the insides with the mixture. Replace the pieces that were cut out, and bind them round with twine. Pack them close in large jars, and fill them up with cold vinegar. 1048. “ Siisse Gurken"—Cucumbers Sweet. Peel full-gi'own cucumbers ; yellow ones will do. Halve them down the middle, scoop out the seeds, cut them into any fanciful pieces, cover with good vinegar, and let them stand twenty- four hours ; then pour ofi' the vinegar, and to three pints of this put half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of stick cinnamon, a drachm of cloves, half a drachm of grated nutmeg, and an ounce of whole ginger. Boil the pickle ten minutes. Lay in the cucumbers, give them one boil up, and take them out before they soften in the least. Lay them in jars and pour the pickle hot over them. In a week or two boil the vinegar over again, and pour it when cold over the cucumbers. 1044. “ Gurken in Essig und ”— Cucumbers in Vinegar and Water. The cucumbers may be of any size, but they must be firm and without seeds. Wipe, and lay them close together in a large jar with the following seasonings strewn between :—a few pickling onions which have been peeled and thrown into salt water, an ounce of ginger broken up small, half an ounce of whole pepper, a quarter of an ounce of whole pimento, eight or ten bay-leaves, a handful of dill, and a few leaves or small sprigs of tarragon : those equally dispersed between the cucumbers. To every quart of vinegar add a pint of water and a dessert-spoonful of salt. There must be enough to cover the cucumbers when poured over. To insure the keeping of these and other pickles, make a muslin bag a little