SOUPS. 6. “ Einlauf Suppe ”— Batter-flake Soup. One egg and a tablespoonful of milk to every table- spoonful of flour. One, two, or three, according to the quantity of soup required. Beat them into a smooth batter, and drop it from the spoon into soup No. 1, which must be kept boiling as the batter drops in. Ten minutes’ boiling is enough. When the flakes are all risen to the top of the soup, it is done. 7. “ Luft Suppe”—A Batter-cream Soup. Mix two or three tablespoonfuls of flour with water enough to make as thick a batter as you can stir, then add as many eggs as there are spoonfuls of flour, and stir it well. Have ready some boiling broth which has been seasoned and strained; pour it into the batter, stu-ring all the while; set it over the fire to boil a few minutes, and serve. 8. “ Suppe in File ”— Soup in Haste. Cut up two pounds of meat in very small pieces. Put an egg-sized piece of butter in a stew-pan; let it melt; throw in the pieces of meat and let them brown, dredging them occasionally with flom-, but do not let the meat dry or burn. Cut up a small head of celery, slice an onion, grate a carrot, and stir all into the meat. Cover closely, to stew a quarter of an hour; then pour in enough hot water to give sufficient soup. Let it boil twenty minutes. Put slices of toasted bread into the tureen, or the yolks of two or three eggs. Season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg; strain, and pour the boiling soup upon the eggs or toast. 9. “ Pommerische Supp>e ”—Pomeranian Soup. A quart of white heans must be boiled soft in water. Mash half of them; thin with broth and work them through a sieve. Let these boil with the broth to a smooth soup, in which has been boiled a head of celeiy cut small. Add the whole beans, a mild seasoning of sweet herbs, some parsley, salt, and pepper. Let all boil a quarter of an hour, and serve. 10. “ Pommerische Suppemit Ente ”—Pomeranian Soup with Duck. Set a duck and its giblets over the fire in cold water, ■with an onion, and let it simmer till tender ; then take it out