PUDDINGS. 217 rind of a lemon, and the yolks of ten eggs. Then thoroughly mix in the half-cold butter, and, lastly, stir in lightly the whites of the eggs whipped to a snow. Boil or steam the pudding in a Avell-huttered mould for two hours; the water must not once cease boiling. Serve with a good “ wein schaum ” or fruit sauce. 787. “ Faclen Macaroni Piulding ”— Vermicelli Pudding. Boil a pint of milk with two ounces of butter. At the moment of boiling throw in three ounces of vermicelli and stir till it thickens and no longer adheres to the sides of the pan. Take it from the fire, and, when cool, stir in two ounces of powdered sugar, an ounce of powdered almonds, with four hitter ones among them, the grated peel of half a lemon, a little spice if approved, and the yolks of six eggs ; then the whites of the eggs whisked to snow. Boil it an hour briskly in a well-buttered form. Serve it with a fruit or wine sauce. 788. “ Pastinake Pudding ”—Parsnip Pudding. Wash and scrape two or three parsnips, and boil them in milk or water till tender. Mash or pound them smooth, stir in a piece of butter warmed, and sugar, lemon, or cinnamon to taste. Mix in three or four well-beaten eggs, according to the size of the pudding, and a small glass of rumor brandy. Put it in a buttered dish, strew crumbs over, put little lumps of butter on the top, and bake it in a moderate oven ; or butter a mould, strew it with crumbs thickly, and boil it. Serve with pudding sauce. 789. “ Nudeln Pudding." This may he made as directed for vermicelli pudding. Another recipe is given under the heading of “ Nudeln.” 790. “ Peis und Macronen Pudding ”— Pice and Macaroon Pudding. Boil six ounces of rice thoroughly in about a quart of milk, with some lemon-peel or other approved flavour. The rice must be stiff, not done to a jelly. Let it partly cool. Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to cream, add to it a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, and the yolks of eight eggs; stir these well, then stn- in the rice, after which the whites