FARINACEOUS DISHES. 201 stamp out cakes. Then take a smaller cutter of an inch and a half in diameter, and cut out the centre of each cake, lea\ung the ring unbroken. Fry these rings in butter, a bright yellow. Lay them in a well-buttered dish, pour over them a little sour cream, and carefully lay a raw egg in each ring. Sprinkle with salt, and put a very little cream on each egg. Cover them so that the whites cannot brown, and put them in the oven till these are set. The yolks must remain soft. Garnish with pai’sley or watercresses. 723. “ Eierhahcr”—A Batter Dish fried. Mix eight tablespoonfuls of flour, four eggs, a little salt, and milk enough for a thin batter. Make butter friture quite hot in a frying-pan, or shallow stew-pan; pour in the batter, and, as it begins to set, stir and break it up with an iron spoon into little lumps. Then let it set, and fry to a pale brown. Turn it and brown the other side. Serve it with salad. 724. “ Siisser Eierhaher ”— Sweet Eierhaber. The same batter, with currants and raisins, lemon, spice, and sugar, or apples sliced in. with chopped almonds, &c., must be broken up small in frying, and finished as above. It must be served on a flat dish, with sugar sifted over. 725. “ Gequirlte Eier, or Riihr Ei”—Stirred Eggs. Stir together four eggs, half a pint of milk, some salt, and finely minced chives. Melt butter in a frying-pan, pour in the eggs, and stir constantly till they are set. Then break them up with a knife, and let them colour a pale brown. Lay the stirred eggs fancifully on spinach." 72G. “ Blinis ”— Little Patties of Potato. Grate three-quarters of a pound of mealy potatoes to a fine flour, moisten this with a little milk. Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and add the potato to it. Boil half a pint of milk, short of that used before ; stir it boiling into the potato, and then stir it over the fire to a smooth paste. Take it ofl’ and mix in two well-beaten eggs. Let the mass cool, beat it up with the yolks of four eggs, whip their whites