285 PRESERVES. and let it stand till next day. Then drain off the syrup and boil it down thick ; add the fruit, and let it boil slowly with constant stirring till quite soft. Put the marmalade in glasses or pots while hot. 1017. “ Quitten Mcrnnelade”—Quince Marmalade. {No. 2.) Let the quinces boil till soft. Peel and core them ; press the fruit to a mash. Allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit. Clarify the sugar first, then put in the fruit. Stir frequently, and boil it slowly till smooth and thick. Another way.—Having clarified the sugar, slice the raw fruit thin, and put it in to boil nearly soft, then take out and drain the slices. Boil down the syrup, lay in the fruit again, and boil it until soft, hut do not let the slices break. 1018. “ Quitten Kerne ”— Quince Kernels. The seeds should not be thrown away; they render a soothing remedy for burns or scalds. Put them in a paper bag to dry. When required, soak a very few in lukewarm or cold water; they will soon form a mucilage or sort of jelly. Apply this to the injured part. 1019. “Quitten Brod”—Quince Cakes. Boil the quinces whole, without peeling them, till quite soft; then peel and core them. AVork the pulp through a coarse sieve. Allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Moisten the sugar with a little water, and boil it until beads form, then put in the fruit and boil this, with constant stirring, to a stifiF, smooth jam. Make little trays of white paper, fill them half an inch thick with the fii’uit, and put them to dry in a cool oven, or spread the mass out thin on plates, and when somewhat dried, set them to get cold. Cut the fruit into any small shapes. Those dried on paper are removed by dipping the paper in cold water. 1020. “ Damascener Marmelade ”— Damson Marmalade. Boil four quarts of the plums in a quart of water, stin-ing often, until the fruit is done to a mash ; then, with a wooden spoon, work it through a coarse sieve, and to each pound of pulp add three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Boil it down