GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. Il8 1130. “ Weisse Brat W'urste ”—White Sausa/jes. Choose young pork, and one-third as much veal. Any part of the pork will do, fat and lean together. Mix the veal and pork when mincing begins. This must be done very finely, indeed quite to a pulp, using a Httle water now and then to moisten the meat. Season with salt and finely ground white pepper when the mincing is half done. A sixth part of white bread or roU soaked in milk and minced in from the first, renders these sausages more delicate. 1131. “ Weisse Brat Wiirste”—White Samarjes. {Xa. 2.) When the fat has been taken off ribs of pork, to make larding bacon, or for other purposes, take three pounds of the lean meat and mince it to a pulp. Have boiled a pound of solid fat pork or bacon, and let it get cold. Cut this into slices half an inch thick, then into strips, and these into square dice. Soak half a pound of white bread in milk, mix this with the fat, and then mix in the other mince. Season with white pepper, salt, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a little nutmeg. jMix all thoroughly, fill care- fully prepared skins and boil them half an hour. They are now ready to serve cold, or they may be fried as other sausages, instead of boiling. 1132. “ JSIecMcnhurgische Knack Wiirst ”—Mecklenburg K7iack Sausages. These are usually eaten cold, cut in small rings and laid ornamentally on plates or small dishes, or laid between bread and butter. Mince unboiled lean pork with a little fresh blood to darken the colour. The blood must be caught at killing-time, and have a little salt stirred in it at once. To six pounds of meat, use for seasoning three ounces of salt, half an ounce of black pepper, a teaspoonful of fresh-ground pimento or three finely pounded cloves, and two cloves of garlic minced and bruised smooth, or pounded in a mortar. Add all the seasoning while mincing. Fill cither in pig or sheep skins ; tie them securely. Set them on the fire in cold water, let them come slowly to a boil, and simmer them half an hour, then dip in cold water and hang them up to dry. The dipping in cold water is chiefly for the purpose of sud- denly congealing the outside of the sausages.