GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 2o6 It is customary to bake them over a stove, or vritb live coals on the lid of the stew-pan, instead of in the oven. 745. “ Dctmpfnudeln”—Steamed Egg Dumjdings. (Xo. 2.) Another way.—"^Tien you first form the nudeln (the balls), lay them an inch apart in a baking tin or dish well buttered; and when half baked, pour over a cup of warm milk, sweet- ened, which should he enough to moisten and prevent their sticking at the bottom. About half an hour should bake them, either in the oven or over a clear fire, with red coals on the lid. 746. “ Baierische Damjifnudeln ”—Bavarian Egg Dumplings. Beat two ounces of butter to a cream, and stir in the yolks of three eggs, with an ounce of powdered sugar; mix a couple of tablespoonfuls of good yeast with a teacup of lukewarm milk ; add this to the above. Having warmed a pound of fine fiour, stir this in by degrees: the mass should be as thick as a hght bread dough. Beat it well and set it to rise ; then dredge a paste-board with plenty of flour. Foim with light handling egg-sized rolls, and set them to rise a second time on the board. Put two ounces of butter and the same of loaf sugar in a stew-pan, with milk enough to cover the bottom near an inch deep ; let this boil by the time the nudeln are risen; place carefully in the stew-pan as many as it W'ill hold with- out crowding. Bake them as above directed. 747. “ Kirsclicn Kiichel"— Cherrg Fritters. Make a good pancake batter, not sparing the eggs, which must be whipped to a froth; tie six or eight black cherries together hy their stems, and fry them in clarified butter, dropping a little batter between and round the cherries when in the pan. Serve with sugar and ciuaumon strewn over. 748. “Aepfel Pfaiinkuchen ”—Apple Pancake. Peel and core apples ; put them in a ste\<--pan with a piece of butter, and let them soften in theii' own steam ; add sugar, grated lemon-jieel, or spice, aud some currants or sulhaua raisins, as approved. Fry two good pancakes ; lay one on a suitable dish, spread the apple over, aud cover it with the other pancake; sift sugar over, aud serve it quite hot.