70 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. IMince the veal, and pound it in a mortar; then add the butter or fat, and mix them by pounding. Soak the bread in cold milk, and press it out as dry as you can. Add the bread and an egg well beaten, some salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Kub all smooth. Instead of one whole egg, two or three yolks are better, and with these grated bread, instead of soaked. This force- meat is either for little balls or stuffing. 272. “ Farce fiir Putem ”— Forcemeat for Turkeys, Three-quarters of a pound of finely minced veal, the same weight of pork, six ounces of butter warmed, three eggs well beaten, six ounces of bread soaked in cold water or milk and pressed out, half an ounce of morels prepared and chopped fine, salt, pepper, parsley, a grate of nutmeg, and some lemon-peel if approved. Mix these well. Parboil a veal sweetbread, cut it into pieces an inch square, and mix it with the mass. Fill the crop as well as the body, but not literally full. 273. “ Farce fiirHuhner oder Wild ”— Forcemeat for Poultry or Game. Soak bread in cold water and press it out. Boil the gizzard and mince it fine. Chop the liver raw, as also some rashers of bacon, which should be fat. Add to these a shalot and some parslqy, minced fine, the juice of a lemon and a third of its peel grated, a little cream, two or three eggs, salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Mix all well together. Put some in crop and body. 274. “ Brod Farce ”— Forcemeat of Bread for Pigeons. Half a pound of grated bread, two eggs, two ounces of butter stirred soft, or the same weight of fat bacon chopped fine, a little parsley, grated lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. 275. “ Hiihner Farce ”— Forcemeat of Ford. An old fowl will do. Strip the meat from the bones, chop, and then pound it. Soak half a pound of white bread in milk, press it out, and "with three ounces of butter rub it smooth in a mortar; then add, by degrees, the meat, the yolks of four eggs, a little nutmeg, salt to taste, and a little parsley if approved. This forcemeat may be