SOUPS. 5 14. “ Klare Suppe mit Parmesan Croutons"—Clear Soup with Parmesan Croutons. Celery, turnips, carrots, green leaks, or onions, and young cabbage-leaves, all cut in strips, are put in a stew-pan with a piece of butter and a little sugar, covered close and left to stew in their own steam over a slow fire. Shake them occasionally till soft and yellow. If the vegetables are not quite young they must be previously parboiled, else they impart too strong a flavour to the soup. Boil the pre- pared vegetables in good gravy soup, and then strain them away. Take slices of stale roll, and with a small round cutter no bigger than a shilling cut out little cakes, dip them in hot butter, and roll them in grated Parmesan cheese; bake them a bright yellow colour. Throw these croutons into the soup at the moment of serving. Parmesan croutons thus prepared may be used to give richness and variety to various fasting or other soups. 15. “ Klare Siippe von Fiindjieisch ”— Clear Soup of Beef. To make a good soup for a small table, about three-quarters of a pound of meat should be allowed for each person; but if the number to dine be large, half a pound to each is enough. Measure with your soup-ladle and tureen the quantity of water which you may require as soup; then allow double this quantity, to set'on cold with the meat, and let it simmer slowly from two to four hours, with any approved vegetables and herbs to flavour. It must be well skimmed while simmering, and the fat carefully taken off. Strain and salt it when done. Serve plain, or with “ Kncideln” or any other accompaniment. 16. “ Kaiser Suppe ”— Imperial Soup>. Beat five eggs well. Add to them a pint of rich, clear soup, some salt, and a grate of nutmeg. Pour it into a well- buttered pudding-mould or basin ; set this in boiling-water and let it boil an hour. Bo sure that water does not flow into the mould. When done, cut the mass into thin slices, or little pieces,, and serve in clear soup. Two or three fresh yolks may be beaten in the tureen, if approved.