SAUCES. 57 glass of white wine (French or German), and some white pepper and salt; lastly, stir in the yolks of two or three eggs, and make all thoroughly hot, but not to boil, or the oysters will become hard. 212. “ Braune Austern Sauce ”— Brown Oyster Sauce. The same as above, but use brown stock instead of white, and brown the flour in butter with a finely minced shalot. Leave out the egg-yolks, and substitute red wine for white. A quarter of a hundred of oysters, prepared as above, is enough sauce for six or eight people. Halve the ingredients and use a dozen oysters for a smaller portion. 213. ‘^Butter Sauce"—Butter Sauce. Two or three ounces of butter and as many spoonfuls of flour mixed in, with salt and a grate of nutmeg. Add this to sufficient of the water in which the fish was boiled. Stir constantly till it boils and is of a creamy thickness. When serving, stir in the yolks of two eggs. 214. “ Muschel Sauce"—Mussel Sauce. Wash well two quarts of mussels. Put them in a sauce- pan without water, cover close, set them over the fire, and shake the saucepan occasionally. When the shells are open they are done. Turn them out into a dish, saving all the liquor. Take the beards off the fish, and also the little brown tongue to which is attached a piece of seaweed. Strain the liquor which was drained from them. Pour it gently into a stew-pan that no sediment may flow. Add to this a thicken- ing of flour and butter, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and a little nutmeg. Stir till it boils. Have in the tureen one or two yolks of eggs; stir the sauce into them. Put in the mussels, and let the whole get quite hot. A little white wine is an improvement. 215. “ Krebs Sauce ”— Crayfish Sauce. Pick a dozen crayfish, or more, according to the sauce re- quired. Crush the tails and little claws in a mortar. Put these and the rest of the shells in a stew-pan, with a good half-pint of water, and let them boil five minutes. In the meantime, pound the picked meat in a mortar, or mince it fine on a dish or marble slab. Delicacies of this sort should