126 GEILMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. seasoning it well. When the gravy has boiled down thick enough to form a jelly, let it get nearly cold ; then stir it into the meat. Lay a wet napkin on a deep dish, and on this—the skin under—one of the halves. Lay the meat on, and cover it with the other half, to form a head. Fold the napkin over, and wrap it round tightly. Pin it as firmly round as pos- sible. Put it in a bowl or pie-dish of its size, with a plate and weight on the top. Let it remain a night. Serve it sliced, garnished with pickles. 465. “Presshopf”—Brawn. (Wo. 2.) A pig’s head, a calf’s head, each cut in halves, and a pound or two of pickled pork, must be packed close in a stew-pan, with salt, pepper, ginger, onions, bay-leaves, a little spice, and a bunch of sweet herbs, including sage, and a clove or two of garlic if approved. Pour in cold water, just enough to cover the meat. Put on the lid of the stew- pan, and let it simmer till the bones will easily slip out. Take up the heads and cut the meat in thick slices, as also the tongues if you have cooked them, or instead of these, a well-boiled smoked tongue. Strain the liquor, and skim the fat ofif; let it boil down to a strong consistency ; then add the juice of a lemon, and half-a-pint of white -«-ine, plenty of salt, and white pepper, or cayenne. Put the meat into this. Let it simmer a few minutes ; turn it into a deep mould; and when it has stood a night, set the mould in hot water for a minute, and tuim it out on a proper dish. 466. “ Presskopf"—Braini. (Wo. 8.) Boil a pig’s head, tongue, and heart soft. They must be covered close, simmering gently in just enough water to keep them stewing. When tender, take up the meat, and cut it into small pieces. Bod down the liquor to a creamy thickness; add to it salt, pepper, grated lemon-peel, a little powdered clove.s or mace, a quarter of a pint of white wine, and the same of vinegar. Stir the meat into the sauce, and give it a simmer together. Put it into any kind of form. Turn it out next day. 467. “ Presskopf”—Brawn. (Wo. 4.) Cook the head as usual. Boil three or four smoked sausages; when cold, cut them in slices half an inch thick. Cut some cooked ham or bacon into small pieces. Bod down