287 PRESERVES. napkin and fine sieve. In either case, the juice must he filtered three times, till it runs quite clear ; then add three- quarters of a pound of sugar to the pound of juice, and boil until it thickens to a clear syrup, and forms a hanging net- work on a silver spoon dipped in. Fill small glasses or pots, and tie them over the next day, 1025. “ Damascener Qelee ”—Damson Jelly. Rinse the fruit in plenty of cold water. To every three quarts of damsons put a pint of water in an earthen' pre- serving-pan. Let them boil slowly, with frequent stirring, till the damsons are broken almost to a mash ; then pour them into a sieve with a flannel or fine napkin over it, and press all the juice through. Filter this clear through a jelly-bag, and to each pound of juice add twelve ounces of loaf sugar. Boil until—as a very good test—’it hangs in a network on the spoon as you lift it up, and will thicken to a jelly when dropped on a cold plate. Fill in small jars. Tie them over next day. 1026. “ Himbeer Qelee ”— Raspberry Jelly. For this, use two-thirds of raspberries, and one third of red or white currants. Pick the fruit from the stalks, and put it on the fire in an earthen pan. Let it boil a few minutes, till the fruit begins to shrink, then pour it into a jelly-bag, or lay a napkin over a fine sieve, and let the juice run through this, pressing and mashing the fruit until you have gained all the juice. 8et it aside to cool and settle, then pour it care- fully from the sediment, and to each pound of juice add three-quarters of a pound of fine loaf sugar. Boil and finish as before dh’ected for other jelly. 1027. “ Johannisbeer Qelee ”—Red Currant Jelly. Red currant jelly will have a finer colour if you use one- third of thoroughly-ripe white currants. Proceed as de-. scribed for others; allowing three-quarters of sugar to the pound of clear juice; 1028. “ Schwarze Johannisbecr Qelee ”— Black Currant Jelly Is made in the same way, but requires a pound of sugar to each pound of juice, unless preferred rather acid.