135 POULTRY AND GAME. When done, add a little water to their own sauce. Sprigs of parsley may, if approved, be put inside each with the butter before cooking. 493. “ Junge Hiihner in weisser Sauce”—Chickens in White Sauce. Wash your chickens well, to blanch them, in lukewarm water. Put them in a stew-pan with an onion, a carrot, a bay-leaf, some lemon-peel, and a little white pepper, with a pint of water. Let them sunmer slowly, well covered. When done tender, take them up and strain the sauce, which must have half cooked away. Mix a flour and butter thickening ; add this to the sauce and give it a boil. Beat two or three eggs well, mix these with a small cup of milk or cream, and stir the latter into the sauce, repeating the stirring till the sauce has a smooth creamy thickness, but not to boil. Quarter the chickens, pour the sauce over, and sprinkle them with parsley, chopped fine and softened in butter.' 494. “ Huhner mit Nudeln ”— Chickens with Nudels. Boil the chickens in just water enough to cover them, and with them set on in cold water an onion, some celery, a carrot, and a small bunch of sweet herbs ; when nearly done, throw in some parsley. Take up the chickens. Strain their broth, and in this put nudels or macaroni, previously boiled soft in water and drained. Set this on the fire with a piece of butter, and some salt. When the broth is quite wasted, leaving the macaroni thick and soft, lay the chickens in to get hot. Dish them with the macaroni piled upon them. Serve with grated Parmesan cheese, handed. 495. “ Kapaun oder Puter zu Sicden ”— Capon or Turkey Boiled. Lay slices of uncooked ham or bacon in the bottom of a deep stew-pan or braizing-pan that will just hold the turkey. Cut up a root of celery, a large carrot, three or four shalots, and a parsnip. Put these with a few cloves in the pan, lay in the turkey, and add water enough to cover it. Keep the lid closed and let it simmer slowly an hour and a half. Take it up and keep it warm while you strain the vegetables away.