Anthony Carerne. 409 feels the necessity of it, than to the discourses of the interested doctor.” Such was Anthony Careme. He had gained the suffrages of emperors and kings, of princes royal and princes not royal, of noble ladies and rich banker Jews, when the climax of his felicity was capped by the friendship and good-will of Rossini, and a flattering notice of his work, in his usual sparkling style, from the facile pen of Jules Janin. This was too much for mortal man, and encumbered by the very splendour and vanity of his successes, and not a little worn out also, by thirty years of service, he sank into premature decay, and was taken from that world of bon-vivants and sensualists of whom he had formed the delight, somewhere about the year of grace 1835 or 1836. “He was,” says a celebrated gourmand, “lively, ar- dent, enthusiastic, of a rare patience, of an imperturbablesa;^- froid. The last work of Careme, “ L’Art de Cuisine Fran^aise au XlXeme Siecle,” was left in an unfinished state, but M. Plumeret, first cook of the Russian embassy^ has finished it by the publication of the sixteenth and seventeenth parts. In the “ Maitre d’Hotel Franqais,” the “Cuisinier Parisien,” and “La Cuisine de Paris au XlXeme Siecle,” will Careme live. “ Careme bestowed fine names on his soups: — Potages Condi, Boleldieu, Bronssais, Roques, Segalas (the three last learned and agreeable doctors) ; Lamartine, Dumesnil (the his- torian) ; Buffon, Oirodet; and to be just to all the world, that great practitioner in the culinary art which the world has lost, had not forgotten, before his death, to give also to one of his best soups the name of Victor Hugo. He called a matelote of fish after M. Delavigne, and a dish of perch after his physician, M. Gaubert.” Here are M. Careme’s ideas on maigre sauces :—“ It is in a lenten kitchen that the cleverness of a cook can shed a bril- liant light. It was in the Elysee Imperial, and by the example of the famous Laguipierre and Robert, that I was initiated into this fine branch of the art, and it is inexpressible. The years ’93 and '94, in their terrible and devastating course, respected these strong heads (ce« fortes tetes). When our valiant First Consul appeared at the head of affairs our miseries and those of gastronomy finished. “ When the empire came, one heard of soups and entrees E E