226 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. meat of equal parts of veal, liver of any kind, and lat bacon; season it delicately with salt, white pepper, and verj' little spice and lemon-peel if approved, but not much of the latter. Spread a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom of the dish, on this a rasher or two of the bacon from the stew-pan ; then lay in the birds, either whole, or cut in quarters and packed close. Cover them with the rest of the bacon and force- meat. Lay on the paste-hd, close it round properly, make a hole in the middle, and bake it in a good oven. "VSTien done, pour in a good and savoury gravy, a little acid with lemon-juice. 810. “ Krammetsvdgel Pastete ”—Fuldfare Pasties. Fieldfares, snipes, woodcocks, quails, and young plovers, should be drawn for pasties, the gizzard opened to take out any grit, and all the inside put into a stew-pan with butter to steam a little while; then taken out and the birds laid in to brown delicately in the butter; when these are done, take them out. For a pasty of half-a-dozen bmds, make forcemeat of a pound and a half of veal, half a pound of fat bacon, and half a pound of calf’s liver-, all finely minced. Add more butter to that in which the birds, &c., were cooked. Beat three or four eggs with a teacup of milk, and stir this into the butter; then sth- in the mince, add salt, white pepper, and very little spice. If you can get a sweetbread, blanch and boil it in salt water. Having stirred the forcemeat until it is cooked and thick enough, divide the sweetbread into marble-sized pieces, and mix them with the mass. Spread a la}*er of the forcemeat on the bottom of the dish ; sprinkle salt, pepper, and lemon-juice over the buds and their trails ; arrange them on the forcemeat, lay the rest of this over them ; then put the paste-lid on, and, when baked, pour in a little rich gravy. 811. “JIascn Pastete’’—Hare Pasty. Cut off the solid meat of the back and legs in as large pieces as you can. Lard them with nice bacon and a small larding-needlc, and lay them a night in a marinade of nne- gnr and seasonings as directed for game. Stew down the carcase of the hare with sweet herbs till the bones are bare and blanched, and you have plenty of good gravy. Lay the larded pieces of hare in a stew-pan with butter.