GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. I 70 lemons over, and leave it in a cool place to draw for an hour or two. Add sugar enough to make six ounces in all. Pour over a bottle of delicately flavoured white wine, and from half a pint to a pint of cold water. Give it a gentle stir. Serve with sponge-cake, either sliced into the bowl or handed. Note.—Any varieties of “ Kalteschalen ” may be prepared from summer fruits, after the preceding directions. In winter preserved syrups answer quite as well, the latter by thinning with water and wine, the former by scalding and straining the fruit. 618. “ Wein Kalteschale”— Wine Kalteschale. Rasp off the yellow rind of a lemon with a quarter of a pound of lumps of sugar. Add the juice of the lemon and half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon with the sugar to a pint of wine in a decanter. Shake well, and put it in a cool place ■ or ice for an hour or two. When required to ser\'e, lay rusks or sponge-cakes in a glass dish, and pour the wine over. 614. “ Sago Kalteschale ”— Sago Kalteschale. Boil about three ounces of sago in equal parts of wine and water, with half a lemon-peel grated, half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and enough loaf sugar to sweeten; keep stirring till it is clear and thick; then pour it out on a flat dish, when it will be not more than three-quarters of an inch thick ; and when cold it must form a stiff jeUy. Mix a pint of white wine with a pint of water; rasp off the yellow of a lemon with six ounces of lump sugar, and add them to the wine with the juice of two lemons, in the bowl or tureen meant for table. Set it in a cool place. Cut out with a small round cutter little balls of the sago jelly; or cut little almond-sized pieces with a teaspoon; and throw them into the wine mixture when about to serve. Either red or white wine will do. Red looks well, and so does yellow wine. 616, “ Seis Kalteschale ”— Jlice Kalteschale. Steam a quarter of a pound of rice till thoroughly done, but it must not be mashed or broken. Shako it to keep it light and whole. Put it in a tureeu, strew plenty of sugar and some powdered cinnamon over, and set it by in a cool