GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 212 967. “ Glucirte Kastanien"—Glazed Chestuiits. Dip half a pound of loaf sugar, in large pieces, in as much water as they will absorb. Boil the sugar in a stew-pan till a little dropped in cold water hardens directly. Have ready some chestnuts boiled and peeled without breaking. Put six or eight at a time on steel wire ; dip them in the sjTup and quickly plunge them into cold water; then slip them off the wire on a dish. Proceed thus until all are done. 968. “ Cracon"—Almond Crackon. Weigh a pound of loaf sugar, in large pieces. Dip them in water and put them in a stew-pan to boil doAvn. Have ready ten ounces of almonds, blanched and split in halves, and as soon as the synip is hoiled clear, put in the almonds, and let them boil until they turn yellow. Oil a jelly-mould with sweet Florence oil, using a feather or small brush to be sure that eveiy part of the moulding is oiled. Turn the almond confect into the mould. Dip a spoon in water from time to time, and spread the sugar mass equally and quickly to the sides and top of the mould, leaving the middle hollow. The cracon should not be very thick. When quite cold, turn it out. 969. “ Gebrau7ite Mandeln ”—Burnt Almonds. Dip a pound of loaf sugar in as much water as it will absorb. Boil it in a stew-pan to a snap height, which may be proved by letting a drop or two fall into cold water, when it should become hard. Wipe a pound of almonds, but leave their husks on. Thi'ow them all at once into the boiling sugar, and stii’ them constantly till all the sugar has coated the almonds ; then take them from the fire and con- tinue stirring till they are dry. Put them again on the fire, and stir till the almonds ai-e glazed. Turn them out on a dish and break them apart. If approved, a teaspoouful of powdered cinnamon may he dusted over them, and the almonds stirred when about to be taken from the fire. 970. “ Mandelspane”—Almond Sharings. Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds and six or eight bitter ones. Pound them quite smooth with a little white of egg. Mix them well with half a pound of sifted sugar, and white of egg enough to form a paste that will spread out thin