GERM.\N NATIONAL COOKERY. 156 5G0. “ Kartoffel Krapfen”— Potato Turnovers, Masb, witli a piece of butter, some dry, mealy potatoes, while they are warm. Mix with them two or three beaten eggs, according to the quantity of potatoes. Dredge a paste- board, spread on it the potatoes a good half-inch thick. When cool, cut out squares or round cakes, five inches across. Put on each a large tablespoonful of any nicely seasoned minced meat; turn over half of the potatoes to cover it, coat them over with egg and bread-crumbs, and bake a delicate brown in a moderate oven. The minced meat for these should be cooked, or partly so. Ham or pork, roasted or boiled, is very good, seasoned sparingly with powdered sage and very little chives or onion. Mutton the same. Whatever the mince may be, fish, game, or poultry, it should have its appropriate seasoning. 561. “ Kartoffel Krapfen mit Haringe ”— Potato Turnovers * with Herring. Prepare potatoes as above. Soak two or three Dutch herrings for a few hours in plenty of fresh water. Take the bones out of the fish and mince them small. To each herring chop and add a hard-boiled egg. Season with minced parsley and pepper. Finish as above. 562. “ Erdbirnen, oder Erdartischocken”—Jerusalem Artichokes. Peel and throw the artichokes into cold water. Boil them soft in plenty of salt water, drain, and serve them with butter sauce,in which is a grate of nutmeg, poured over. Or, when peeled and washed, put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, some broth, and an onion stuck with a few cloves. Season, and serve with the soup over them. For artichoke soup, boil them as above. Rub them through a sieve, and boil them up with a good white soup, which should be thickened, creamy and smooth, with the artichokes. 563. “ Artischocken ”— Artichokes. Cut the stems off close, break off the outer hard leaves, pare thin places smooth, cut ofl’ the tips of the leaves, and lay them some time in cold water ; then throw them into boiling water with some salt, to boil an hour. Drain them. Scoop out the stringy parts inside carefully and rinse the arti-