POULTRY AND GAME. 141 513. “ Ragout von Gans oder Ente ”— Ragout of Goose or Duck. Chop an onion or two. Put them in a stew-pan with a large tablespoonful of goose dripping. When this is hot, and the onions turned yellow and soft, dredge in some flour and let it brown. Add some broth, or gravy and water. Cut up any remains of goose or duck, and put them into the sauce, with salt, pepper, a glass of white wine, and a little tarragon vinegar to flavour. Cover and let all steam awhile, and serve with kldsse or any delicate vegetable. 514. “ Gans oder Ente in Asjric "— Goose or Duck in Jelly. Chop up two or three calf’s feet, and put them on the fire in a couple of quarts of water, to boil until dissolved ; then strain away the bones. Have a goose or a couple of ducks well cleaned. Lay—say the goose—in a deep stew-pan; pour over it the calf s-feet liquor, add salt, pepper, a couple of onions, two bay-leaves, some sprigs of thyme, basil, and a small one of tarragon; or, in lieu of this, some tarragon vinegar, half a lemon, six cloves, and a dozen bruised allspice. Pour in broth or water enough to cover the goose barely. Cover it close, and let it simmer about two hours, or until the meat will easily part from the bones. Cut ofl’ the meat in slices, stripping all the bones, which may be returned to the stew-pan and boiled down longer. Taste if the jelly be piquant and nicely flavoured. You may add cayenne pepper, lemon-juice, or vinegar. Strain it through a napkin or jelly-bag and take the fat off. Put a few spoonfuls of the jelly in a rather shallow mould or deep pie-dish. W hen the jelly has set, lay on it an ornamental device of different coloured things, such as a wreath of hard egg slices, the white rings and the yolks separate, green pickles, beetroot, capers, &c. Pour gently over these, with a spoon, some more liquid jelly. Wait till this has set firmly, then lay in the slices of meat, not too closely packed, and pour over these carefully the half-cold jelly. Let it stand a night, then warm the mould for a minute over hot water and tum out the jelly. This is an excellent dish for supper, luncheon, or break- fast. An ounce of pure gelatine dissolved, or softened in a