GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 236 836. “ Flammen Torte ”—Flame Cake. This is a supper dish. Choose a flat sponge cake, or cut a deep one into three or four slices, and arrange them closely together. Soak it wth arrack or brandy, and set fire to it as it is being carried to table. 837. “ Braut ToHe ”—Bride Cake. For this excellent cake blanch and pound in a marble mortar a pound of almonds quite fine, using white of egg to prevent their clogging together. Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream ; add to it, by degrees, a pound of sifted sugar, then the yolks of twelve eggs, the grated peel of a lemon, and a small teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Next add the almonds, and a pound of fine flour well dried. Stir all briskly for half an hour; after which add the egg-whites, whipped to a snow. Bake four cakes of the mass in flat round tins with inch-deep rims, which these must be lined with buttered paper, rising an inch above the tins. Bake them in a moderate oven a deep yellow colour, not brown. Meantime, warm, in a small enamelled saucepan, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; stir into it a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, the yolks of four eggs, and the juice of four lemons. Stu' it quickly until it thickens ; then take it from the fire, and continue the stirring until it cools. Spread this over three of the cakes, as you lay one over the other. Lay the fourth on the top. Next day, if the cake is not even and smooth all round, make it so with a sharp knife. Ice it all over with lemon icing, and ornament it according to taste. 838. Observation on Torten Forms. T^Tien tho round shallow tins used for so many kinds are not at hand, paper ones may be substituted. Make them by straining white foolscap paper over a large plate. Fold up the sides in plaits at regular distances, and tack them round with needle and thread; then cut them round evenly, from one to two inches deep. They must always be buttered. The cakes baked in them are mostly light masses poured in thin, so that there will be no strain upon the paper to put the shape out of place.