GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 12 with a little of the soup if too thick or stiff. Then strain the soup ; add the Puree; give it a boil up together; add salt and white pepper, and serve. If at hand, a small plate of broken-up cauliflower put into the tureen is much approved. 36. “ Braune Suppe mit Puree von Leber ”— Brown Soup with Puree of Liver. Slice half a pound of liver; dredge with flour and fry it brown in butter, with an onion cut in slices. Then pound the liver quite smooth. Season it with salt, black pepper, and a gi’ate of nutmeg. Stir into it about three pints of good brown soup, and boil it ten minutes with a French roll sliced in, crust included. Strain it, and again make the soup hot, nearly boiling. Pour it on two well-beaten eggs in the tureen. Offer lemon-juice and cayenne pepper at table. 37. “ Supp>e mit Blumenkohl Puree ”—Puree Soup of CauU- flower. The cauliflower must be of the whitest, boiled in salted water, taken up when half done, and boiled sufliciently in clear soup. Then break it up, and save the most perfect little tufts for the finishing. Pass the rest through a sieve. Thicken the soup to a creamy substance, with flour mixed with cream or milk; add to it some neatly cut little pieces of fowl or veal, and the Puree of cauliflower. Let it come to a boil. Beat a piece of fresh butter to a cream in the tureen, and well stir into it two or three eggs. Pour in the soup scalding hot, and add the little tufts of cauliflower. 38. “Suppe mit Weisse Riiben Puree"— Pi'irce Soup of Turnips. Peel and slice the turnips, put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and enough clear broth to cook them soft. Work them through a sieve, and add the Puree to a clear soup. Mix a tablespoonful or two of flour with a cup of cream or milk ; add this, ■with salt and white pepper; let it boil for two or three minutes before serving. 39. “ TAnsen Suppe ”— Ijrntils Soup. Lentils, a pint or so, must bo washed, and put on the fire in cold water. When they have boiled half an hour, strain