22 1 PASTIES. condition are much paler in colour than otherwise. At the present prices of animal food, geese are by no means ex- pensive in proportion, and one may, without the imputation of extravagance, produce fresh Strasbourg patties at a much less cost than by purchase from provision vendors ; especially as geese may be used with so much advantage for excellent cold dishes, such as “ Gans in Aspic,” “ Gans Pastete,” and others, not forgetting the important role played by “ Giinse- schmalz,” goose-lard, in the German cuisine. Therefore, select two fine fat geese, as they are brought to market, and have them drawn in your own kitchen; for, even if you order the giblets, and let the goose be drawn at the poulterers’, they frequently send but half of the liver. When the first intestines are out, take firm hold of the gizzard and draw the rest gently, to avoid breaking the gall-bag, which must be carefully cut out; lay the livers for a night or a few hours in milk to blanch them. 801. “ Gdnscleher Pasteten ”— Strasbourg Pclte. [No. 1.) For two good-sized livers, allow a pound of fresh pork, rather more lean than fat, half a pound of calf’s sweet- bread, a quarter of a pound of fat bacon, two ounces of sardines, an ounce of capers, and half a pound of trufiles. Having laid the livers in milk, prepare a small braize in a stew-pan with a close-fitting lid, as follows:—Cover its bottom with thin rashers of bacon, lay on these two or three shalots or an onion sliced, some sprigs of parsley, four bruised cloves, a good teaspoonful of bruised pepper and ginger mixed, and a bay-leaf. Add a little gravy, or milk and water, to keep the bacon from browning. Cover close and set it over a slow fire to draw out the flavours, then put it back to cool. Meantime, having soaked the truffles in water, scrub, wash, and peel them, slice them a third of an inch thick, cut the slices into narrow pieces, point them a little—saving the cuttings—and dust them with salt and pepper. Divide each liver in halves, stick the pieces of truffles through them, to look like larding, then lay them in the braize. Let them steam in this over a slow fire a quarter of an hour, then set them aside to cool without uncovering, that the liver may receive the flavours. Take the pork and bacon out of the braize and mince them fine ; the mincing machine is best to give them smoothness. Having blanched