GERJMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 92 354. Frische Zunge"—Fresh Ox Tongue. [No. 2.) Having boiled the tongue as above, brown some flour in butter, leaving out the bread-crumbs. Add a dessert-spoon- ful of capers, two sardines, an onion, and some parsley, all minced fine, and two or three slices of lemon. Thin the sauce with some of the water the tongue was boiled in, or some broth ; add a little wine, vinegar, salt, and some black pepper. 355. “Frische Zunge"—Fresh Ox Tongue. {Fo. 3.) An excellent way. Boil and skin the tongue as above. Brown some flour in two ounces of butter; thin this with broth or water. Add a glass of white wine, an onion stuck with a few cloves, salt, pepper, and broth or water to give a creamy sauce. Lay in the tongue to finish as in the previous recipes. It should simmer at least an hour in the sauce. « 356. “ Dresdener Zunge ”—Dresden Tongue. Pi-ocure a fresh bullock’s tongue, wash well, and wipe it quite dry. Put a large piece of butter in a stew-pan, which must be deep enough to close well. Dredge in some flour ; place the tongue in the stew-pan; let it brown nicely on one side, then turn it. When nicely browned all over, season it well; add a pint and a half of water. Cover close, and let it simmer, not boil, three hours and a half. Add more water if the gravy wastes much. There must be enough left to serve with the tongue, which is eaten hot with potatoes, or is equally good cold. Garnish, and serve with slices of lemon. 357. “ Ungarische Zunge"—Hungarian Tongue with Sauce. Put a fresh tongue on the fire in just cold water enough to cover it, and with it a carrot, an onion, a bay-leaf, a couple of slices of lemon, some black pepper, salt, and a little garlic. Let it simmer gently about two hours, till quite tender. Skin and trim it. Either servo it whole, or cut in slices and arranged in a ring, with the following thick sauce in the middle. Strain the sauce which the tongue was cooked in (this should bo reduced in the simmering to a mere gravy); brown a largo tablespoonful of flour in a good- sized piece of butter ; bruise two or three cloves of garlic, and lot them steam a little while in the browning ; then add