MEATS. 89 larger than an egg. Have butter warmed in a shallow stew- pan ; turn the balls in it as you lay them in; add a cup or two of bouillon, made from the stewing of any bones or trimmings; throw in two or thi'ee slices of lemon; cover close, and stew them twenty minutes, turning them once dming the time. Serve in their own sauce, with fresh rasp- ings or fried crumbs stewn over. 345. “ Klojjjjs”—Collops. [No. 2.) Have equal parts of beef and fresh young pork minced very fine, the skin and gristle carefully removed (you may boil these down for gravy). Allow to a pound of minced meat two beaten eggs, two ounces of butter, and a quarter of a pound of grated bread. If the flavour be not objected to, mince a shalot fine ; put it in a small stew-pan with the butter to soften; and then add it to the meat with the eggs, bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and, if neces- sary, a little water to mix the whole. Form little halls. Put some broth or gravy in a stew-pan, and when it is hot lay in the klopps; let them stew ten minutes, then turn them, and stew them ten minutes longer. Break one, to see that they are done through. Take them up and keep them warm. Add to the sauce a few bread-crumbs, some shred green pickle or capers, a couple of sardines cut small, and two or three slices of lemon. Let the sauce boil up; lay in the klopps again to get thoroughly hot, and serve them in their sauce without straining the latter. 346. “ Kloj7ps”—Collops. [No. 3.) Form klopps the size of a small apple; flatten and smooth them with a knife dipped in water ; crossbar them with the back of the knife. Chop a handful of pai’sley, a small sprig of tarragon, a handful of chives or a shalot, and fry these a few minutes in butter, in a broad stew-pan. Add the juice of a lemon and a little wine. Lay in the klopps, cover close, and set them over a moderate fire. Twenty or twenty-five minutes will do them. They must be turned once. Arrange them in a wreath when dished. Add some sai'dino or other good sauce to that in the stew-pan; pour it over the klopps. Garnish with an outer wreath of sliced potatoes fried in butter, and a few of the same in the middle.