MEATS. 125 longways, some strips of pork and the pig’s tongue sliced ; then, between these, some pickled gherkins and strips of fat bacon. Sprinkle over some finely minced shalot, or a clove of garlic, salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Then spread over another layer of the forcemeat, and, if there is room for more, a sliced kidney or two, or some slices of veal, and the rest of the forcemeat. Close the two halves of the head together, and sew them tight. Bind the snout round firmly, or sew it together. Smooth the forcemeat over the back of the head, and cover it with part of a large bladder that has been soaked in several waters. Sew this on to the head. Lay it in a deep stew-pot with four calves’ feet, the bones of the head, and cold water enough to cover it. Put in with it a little garlic or a few shalots, a root of celery, two or three bay-leaves, six cloves, a sprig of winter savoury or thyme, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. Let it simmer slowly about three hours. Take the stew-pan from the fire, and when neai’ly cold, take up the head carefully. When quite cold, draw the threads out; glaze the head with a rich, clear meat glazing; when this has set, cut a smooth slice off the neck paid of the head, to show its marbled contents, and garnish with some of the clear jelly and a spray of gi'een bay-leaves. 463. “ Gerciucherter Schweinskopf''— Smoked Pig's Head. Lay the head in plenty of water to soak all night. Put it on in cold water to cook. Cover close, and simmer three hours. Serve with sauerki’aut. 464. “ Presskopf"—Brawn, or Pressed Head. Divide the head in halves, lengthways. Put it in a stew- pan with the pig’s feet, a couple of onions, a sprig of sage, salt, pepper, two or three cloves, a small wineglass of vine- gar and water, and barley enough to cover it. Simmer till the bones will slip out, but not long enough for the meat to fall to pieces. Take up head and feet and take out all the bones ; set the meat to cool while you strain the liquid; take its fat o9‘, and boil it down thick. When the head is cool, cut away the inner meat, leaving the skin whole. Cut up the meat, with what you have of the feet, into small pieces. The tongue must have been boiled with the head, and taken up when tender ; cut this up also and mix it with the moat,