I 12 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. and cut it clear from the bones ; put the latter back to boil for half an hour. Cut the head, tongue, and heart in neat slices when cold enough. Put two or three slices of lemon to boil with the bones. Add a little cayenne pepper, and strain off the liquid jelly. Rinse a couple of moulds in cold water. Pour in a little of the jelly, then arrange the white and brown meat in them ; be sm-e that the jelly is salted enough ; fill up the moulds, and when quite cold, remove the fat from the top, if any remains, and turn out the jelly. 423. “ Kalbsleber Gespickte ”— Calf's Liver Larded. Skin the liver and lard it with a small larding-pin all over the oval side. Butter well a small dish; lay in the liver, and set it in a hot oven to brown somewhat. "When the bacon begins to colour, dredge it with flour thickly, to coat the liver well; let it remain in the oven long enough to colour the flour. MeanwhUe, have in a stew-pan over the fire two or three rashers of bacon and a large onion sliced, a bay-leaf, a little lemon-peel, and plentiful salt and pepper. Cover the stew-pan till the onion is a little softened ; then lay in the liver, put a httle water or broth in the baking- dish, to melt off’ any crusted gravy, pour this into the stew- pan, cover close, and let it steam quite tender, but avoid boil- ing it. When done, take up the liver, squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, strain the sauce, and if not thick enough add more flour; give it a boil, and pour it over the liver. 424. “Gespickte Leber Scliciben"—Calf's Liver Larded in Slices. Cut two or three rashers of rather fat bacon in small dice, and mince a couple of onions tine ; put bacon and onions together in a stew-pan, and set it over the tiro till the onions begin to colour. Cut calf’s liver in slices a good half-inch thick. Lard the slices through, not more than an inch apart; dredge them well with flour; lay them in the stew- pan, and let them do a nice brown on both sides over a quick fire. Take out the slices ; mix a thickening of flour and broth or water, stir it into the rest, season well with salt and popper, add enough vinegar to make it piquant, and pour the sauce over the well-arranged slices of liver. The sauce should bo thick and brown ; leave the onions and bacon in it.