SAUCES. 6l black pepper crushed, and a dozen cloves. Keep it covered and let it stand till cold. Then mix with it the best mustard. If well corked in small mustard jars, this will keep a long time. Or the vinegar kept corked in a bottle will be ready for mixing the mustard as it is wanted. 228. “EierSenf”—Egg Mustard. The yolks of two hard-boiled eggs must be rubbed smooth. Add two tablespoonfuls of mustard, one of Florence oil, some salt, and enongh tarragon vinegar to work it into a smooth paste. 229. “ Gewurz Sen/”—Aromatic or Sjnced Mustard. Slice two good-sized onions and two cloves of garlic. Put them in a jar with four bay-leaves; pour over them a pint of tarragon vinegar, or put in a sprig of tarragon and use plain vinegar. Cover the jar close, and let it stand a day ; then boil all together. Strain the vinegar, add to it two ounces of crushed sugar-candy or loaf sugar, and make it scalding hot again. Mix in a basin two ounces of brown and two ounces of yellow mustard, two teaspoonfuls of salt, two drachms of Jamaica pepper, and half a drachm of cinnamon, finely powdered. Pour over these the scalding vinegar, stirring the whole with a wooden spoon till quite smooth and of a good thickness. Add more vinegar if required. Put it in small jars or wide-necked bottles, cork them well or cover them with bladder, and put them away in a cool place for a week or two before using. 230. “ Gewurz Sen/”—Spiced Mustard. [No. ^.) A pint of vinegar, a small handful of tarragon-leaves, an onion, and a large clove of garlic sliced, a drachm of black pepper, a dozen cloves crushed, a drachm of powdered cinnamon, three bay-leaves, a tablespoonful of sugar, and two teaspoonfuls of salt. Boil these slowly a few minutes, then strain the vinegar, and mix with it as much mustard as will make it rather thick. 231. “ Sardellen Senf'—Sardine Mustard. Carefully take out the bones of six sardines, and pound the fish with the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs. Mince a shalot fine and mix it with the paste. Add two table-