PRESERVES. 289 again and pour it wai-m over the cherries. Eepeat this the third day and tie them over. The spice must be left in. 1033. “ Kirschm in Essif/"—Cherries in Vinegar. {No. 2.) Put a thick layer of cherries in a large preserve-glass or jar. Strew a handful of sugar over and some broken cinna- mon and cloves. Add layers of cherries, sugar, and spice, till the vessel is full. Fill it up with good cold vinegar, cover with good white paper, and stand the jars in the sun, or a warm place, a few days before putting away. 1034. Pflaimen in Essig”—Plums in Vinegar. Six pounds of ripe mussel plums, firm and whole, two pounds of sugar, half an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and three pints of vinegar. Wipe the plums free from dust. Boil vinegar, sugar, and spice together, then lay in some of the plums and just give them a scald. Take them out as the skins begin to crack, and laj" them on flat dishes to get cold, putting others, but not too many at once, into the boiling-hot vinegar. They must not boil soft. Those that are cold must be carefully laid in large jars, and so proceed until all are scalded, cooled, and put in the jars. Boil the syrup a little longer, let it get cold, and pour it over the fruit. If the syrup is not enough to cover the frait at first, shake the jars gently that the plums may pack closer, or tilt the jar on one side and baste the fruit daily. At the end of a week pour off the syrup, and give it another boil. Pour it over hot if the plums are hard, but if they are soft let the syrup get cold fii'st. 1035. “ Pflaumen in Essig und Wein”—Plums in Vinegar and Wine. Four quarts of plums, a quart of vinegar, a pint of red wine, a pound of sugar, a drachm of cloves, a drachni of cinnamon. Proceed and finish as in the previous recipe. 1036. “ Obst in Branntivein ”—Fruit in Brandy. Peaches, apricots, and plums, must he ripe, but fii’m. Prick them several times all over to the stone, with a pin. Clarify sugar as directed in No. 991, and when it is ready lay in the fruit, and let it simmer slowly till it is a little softened, but still firm; then set it all by to get cold. Next u