405 Anthony Careme. with service. I felt the first attack of the malady which gnaws at my vitals. I now only think of profiting of the days which Heaven may yet spare to me to finish the books whose germs are in my mind. These books have been the meditation of my entire life. What torments, what preoccupations, what cares, do they not represent, and how I have tormented body and mind by my long vigils. At break of day I was at the fish-market, seeking the elements of my labours. Some hours after, I was in the thick of business, with cap and apron on; and I was again at work, busy as a bee, some hours before dinner. It was in the night, after a short sleep, that I lately dictated to my daughter my most recent chapters. The certainty now remains to me of leaving something useful behind me. But I shall not leave all that I had conceived touching our art, in the interest of kindly civil men and good practicians. “I now edited my ‘ Maitre-d’HotelI published a new edition of the ‘ Patissier Royale,’ and the third of the ‘ Patis- sier Pittoresquethe copyright I kept in my own hands. “ My works, forming already six volumes, had created for me at last (exclusive of places whose emoluments I always sacri- ficed to my studies!) the annual income necessary to a tranquil and comfortable existence. I made that year an income of more than 20,000 francs (800Z.). M. de Rothschild, valuing my services, raised, of his own accord, my wages. He had just about this time purchased of the Duke of Otranto the hand- some estate of Ferrieres. The baron was good enough to say that the resources of Ferrieres would render my service more ea.sy; he added, with kindness, ‘ This beautiful chateau will, a dozen years hence, offer you a retreat.’ I eagerly thanked him, but said that I did not think my health would permit me to accept his offers, that I was worn out. ‘ My wish,’ said I, ‘ M. le Baron, is not to finish my days in a chateau, but in an humble lodging in Paris.’ I further mentioned that my books brought me in an income which exceeded my wants. I shall increase this income, for I have not finished my labours; I have yet to publish a book on the actual state of my jirofession.’ ‘ But what is the amount of that income ?’ kindly asked M. de Roths- child and his family. A lively surprise was the result of my answer. What I said appeared a dream. I added that this income was not of the past year only, but dated back for several years.