245 KUCHEN. 865. “ Blatter Teig”—Puff Paste. {No. 2. To a pound of fine flour on a pasteboard add, in small pieces, a quarter of a pound of butter. Beat up an egg in half a teacupful of milk, and add to this half a wineglass of hrandy. Make a hollow in the flour, pour in the mixture, and work it together with a knife to a smooth paste, sprink- ling with milk if it is not moist enough. Finish moulding lightly with the hand to bring it quite smooth ; roll it out, flatten half a pound of butter on it, and over this fold the paste. Roll out and fold it four times, keeping it as cool as possible. 866. “ Hefen Teig”—Yeast Dough, To a pound of flour use an ounce of dry yeast, or two tablespoonfuls of brewer’s yeast. Stir it into a cup of luke- warm milk, and with it mix a batter of a quarter of the flour in the middle of the rest. Cut up on the top of the flour from a quarter to half a pound of butter, and set it to rise in a warm place. Then sprinkle over it a little salt and a couple of ounces of powdered sugar. Mix the whole well together and let it rise a second time, when it is ready to roll out for use. Bread dough from the bakers, with or without butter rolled in, is also used for common kuchen. 867. “ Aepfel Kuchen ”— Common Apple Kuchen, Line a shallow tin with tart-paste (No. 866), or baker’s bread dough if you have no yeast to make one; peel, quarter, and core apples; cut them in half-quarters; lay these close together sideways over the paste till it is covered. Mix a custard of a cup of milk, two eggs, a good teaspoon- ful of arrowroot or corn-flour, some grated or shred lemon- peel or nutmeg, and sugar enough to sweeten ; pour it over the apples, mix powdered sugar and cinnamon, and strew this over. Bake it in a moderate oven; slice a little hutter over before baking. 868. Aepfel Kuchen"—Apple Cake. {No. 2.) A better one is of apples cut in half-quarters, laid on a thin paste. Mix a cup of grated bread-crumbs, an ounce of almonds blanched and either pounded coarse or cut in thin slices, a few sultana or other raisins, powdered cinnamon, and