242 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 853. “ Gugelhopfen"—Savoy Cake. (.\^o. 2.) Three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, the yolks of nine eggs, two tablespoonfuls of yeast, a teacup- ful of milk, and three ounces of sifted sugar. Stir it above half an hour one way, then add the whites of six eggs whisked to a snow. Butter a form as above, and sprinkle in as many chopped almonds as will hang on the butter. Fill rather more than half full, set it to rise, bake it in a moderate oven, and dredge sugar over when turned out. 854. “ Rodonkuclien, or Napjkuchen”—Rodon Cake. Warm two pounds of flour, of which mix half a pound with half a pint of lukewarm milk, and two ounces of lump yeast, or a small teacup of brewer’s yeast. Set it to rise. Beat twelve eggs, grate the rind of a lemon, and pound an ounce of hitter almonds. Mix these ingredients, six ounces of sifted sugar, with the other pound and a half of flour, using lukewarm milk enough to form a thin dough. Having set a pound of butter near the fire to warm, mix in this, and then add the sponge-dough, which must he well risen first. Beat all together a quarter of an hour with a batter-spoon ; then add half a pound of stoned raisins or sultanas, a quarter of a pound of currants, and two ounces of almonds cut small. Butter well a large turban mould, and strew it with as much minced almonds as will hang to the butter. Fill the mould half full, and let the cake rise in a warm place. Then gently set it in a moderate oven, to bake an hour and a half. 855. “ Geriilirter NapfkiicJien "—Rodoji Cake. {Xo. 2.) Mix an ounce and a half of lump yeast with about half a pint of lukewarm milk ; stir this into a pound of flour and set it to rise. Beat half a pound of butter creamy ; stir into it by degrees two ounces of sifted sugar, four eggs, and the yolks of four others, a grated lemon-peel, a little salt and nutmeg, and half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and pounded. When the yeast-dough is well risen, mix it in with the rest, and add then a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins. Put it in a well-buttered form, and bake it about an hour in a moderate oven.