“ KLOSSE. 183 pound of butter, warmed, three beaten eggs, a spoonful of sugar, a little salt, and very little nutmeg. Beat the mass well with a wooden spoon. It should be nearly as thick as bread dough. Cover with a napkin and leave it in a warm place to rise, then heat it together again. Dredge a pasteboard with flour, make little balls, lay them on the board and place it near warmth. When the balls have begun to rise, put them into a large saucepan of boiling water, and cover with the lid. Let them boil twenty minutes, and serve directly. 658. “ Eier Kldsse ”— Egg lUMsse. Beat three eggs Avell, mix them with half a pint of broth or milk, a little salt, nutmeg, and fine parsley. Pour this mixture into a well-buttered basin, and put this into a stew-pan of boiling water, which must he kept simmering until the custard is set; then take the basin out of the water. When the soup is put into the tureen, take up small spoonfuls of the custard, and put them in the soup. 659. “ Rindfleisch Kldsse ”— Beef Kldsse. Half a pound of half-cooked steak minced very fine, two ounces of butter and two eggs stirred to a cream, two ounces of bread soaked and pressed out, a little salt and nutmeg ; must be all well mixed together, and then whip the whites of two eggs to a snow ; stir in this. Make round klosse and give them five minutes gentle boiling before the soup is served. The mass for these, must not be very stiff, but just enough so to hold together; the klosse must be boiled in the soup. 660. “ Fisch Kldsse ”— Fish Kldsse. Melt three ounces of butter, and let a finely minced shalot fry in it to a pale yellow colour. Add three ounces of grated bread, two or three tablesponfuls of cream, and two eggs. Stir this mixture over the fire a few minutes, then turn it out to cool. Weigh half a pound of any uncooked fish, free from skin and bone, mince it fine with two ounces of fresh pork or bacon, season with salt, pepper, parsley, and a grate of nut- meg, and mix this and the former ingredients all well together. Form klosse with a spoon, and boil them ten minutes.