25 SOUPS. the same of grated ginger, or, should there not he fresh pow- dered cinnamon at hand, half a small nutmeg. Stir all together with a wire whisk over a brisk fire till the soup reaches a boiling point. Pour it quickly into the tureen, and serve with toasted rolls. 94. “ Bier Suppe mil Sago ”—Beer Soup tvith Sago. Boil, for twenty minutes, three pints of ale, two ounces of sago, the peel of half a lemon, a few cloves or a stick of cinna- mon, and sugar to yom- taste. A few minutes before serving, slice in half a lemon, very thinly, and add a glass of rum or brandy. 95. Bier Suppe mit Brocl ”— Beer Soup ivith Bread. A couple of rolls or some slices of bread must be boiled soft in a little water, then strained and beaten smooth. Add currants, lemon-peel, spice, sugar, and the beer. Boil all together until the currants are soft; then stir it briskly into yolks of eggs in the tureen. 96. “ Bier Suppe mit Milk ”— Beer Soup ivith Milk. Allow as much milk as beer, a quart of each. Boil the milk apart, and stir it rapidly into the yolks of four eggs; then add the grated peel of half a lemon, two tablespoonfuls of flour, sufficient sugar, half a teaspoonful of grated ginger, and some cinnamon or nutmeg. Stir all together, with the wire-rod, over a good fire, till it is on the point of boiling over; then pour it quickly into the tureen, and serve with toasted rolls. 97. “ Bier Suppe mit Kiitnmel ”— Beer Soup with Caraways. Use brown bread for this if you have it; if not, a couple of rolls must be boiled in a little water, strained, and beaten well with a fork. Proceed as in No. 95, using the same ingredients, excepting the currants, which must be omitted, and a large teaspoonful or more of caraways substituted. 98. “ Polnischer Thee ”— Polish Tea. Simmer a quart of ale with a large stick of cinnamon. Mix a couple of tablespoonfuls of potato meal with a little white wine, and stir it into the beer. Add a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, with which you have rasped ofi’ the yellow rind