GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 252 what risen, make dents with the finger here and there; put into each hollow a little piece of butter, the size of a nut: sprinkle thickly with sugar, and bake it in a rather quick oven. Or, bake it without the sugar on the top, and when it is drawn from the oven brush it over with a glazing of sifted sugar, moistened with rose-water, and set it back in the oven a few minutes to harden this. 894. “ Streusel Kuchen ”— Streiced Cake. Mix a light dough of half a pound of flour and two ounces of yeast, or a cup of brewer’s yeast, in lukewarm milk, and put it to rise. Meanwhile, mix together half a pound of warmed butter, three ounces of sugar, six eggs, the grated peel of a lemon, half a nutmeg, a teaspoonful of salt, a pound and a half of flour, and sufficient lukewarm milk to form a soft dough. Add the yeast sponge as soon as it has risen, and beat the whole together thoroughly. Dredge a flat tin with floui’. The tin must have a raised edge all round. Roll out the cake on it, half an inch thick, and set it to rise. Now work into a paste two ounces of warmed butter, two ounces of sugar, a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and two ounces of flour. Chop this paste into little lumps the size of a pea, dredging occasionally with sugar and a little flour. This is called the streusel. Strew it over the cake, and bake it a nice colour in a quick oven. 895. “ Elherfelcl Krengel ”—An Elberfeld Cake. Mix half a pint of warm milk with two ounces of yeast . and five or six eggs ; stir in a pound of flour, and set it to rise. When it has risen, add a quarter of a pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of warmed butter, and beat in by degrees nearly another pound of flour. It must be of the consistency of bread dough. Roll it out about half an inch thick, and twice as long as it is broad. Spread over it three- quarters of a pound of currants, previously plumped in warm water, and over these sprinkle a quarter of a pound of sugar mixed with a large teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Or, instead of the currants, &c., spread over a layer of fine pre- serve. Roll the dough up carefully lengthways, then form it into a ring on a tin. Leave it to rise, and when it appears to lighten brush it over with warmed butter, and bake it in a good moderate oven from half to three-quarters of an hour.