45 FISH. 161. “ Fisch Ragout in Coquillen Schalen”— Fish Ragout in Scollop Shells May be made of any uncooked fish, cleai’ed of skin and bone. Cut it into very small jneces, but do not mince it to a pulp. Melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan. Put in the fish, with some salt and lemon-juice, to stew gently till done. Prepare in another casserole a little good gravy, a small glass of white wine, some gi'ated ginger, a little nutmeg and grated lemon-peel, and a little cayenne pepper. Thicken this sauce with flour and butter to a good consistency, and keep stirring until it boils, and is quite thick, then add the fish and the yolks of two or three eggs, with a piece of “ crayfish,” or “ sardine butter.” Fill scollop-shells with the ragout; strew over a mixture of grated bread and Parmesan cheese, sprinkle over a little oiled butter and set them in a quick oven to colour a nice yellow. 162. “ Croquetten von Fisch ”— Croquettes of Fish. Prepare a fish ragout, as in No. 174. Put in it enough dissolved gelatine to bind it when cold and season so as to make it veiy savoury and piquant. Stir in with the warm ragout a handful of grated bread. "When quite cold, cut oblong pieces and roll them into small sausages. Dip these in egg and roll them in, or strew over them, mixed grated bread and Parmesan cheese. Let them be well coated with this. Fry them in butter a pale brown, and garnish them with sliced gi-een pickle and crimped parsley. 163. “ Krebs Butter"— Crayfish Butter. This is a great delicacy for sauces, and for giving colour, richness and flavour to those dishes for which it is recom- mended. When crayfish soup, or fricassee is to be prepared, pick out the meat of freshly boiled crayfish, pound the shells and small claws in a marble mortar, add butter, and pound all into a paste. Put the mass into a stew-pan, and stir it over a slow fire, till the butter boils and looks red. Then pour in a cup of boiling water, and let it simmer a few minutes. Strain through a hair-sieve. When cold, take the red butter off the top and press it into ajar for use. The water, being flavoured by the shells, should be used for the soup or fricassee.