FARINACEOUS DISHES. 197 at the bottom, break it up into rugged pieces, and dish it piled up. It may either be served \vitb soup, with sour or sweet cream, or with boiled milk. One of these must also accompany the “ Haiden Stertz.” 706. “ Schmankerlen"— Schmankeii. Stir into half a pint of milk two tablespoonfuls of flour, a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and an ounce of butter warmed to an oil. Have ready a well-buttered flat tin, large enough to receive the batter spread out thin. Put it in the oven long enough to encrust the batter at the bottom without brown- ing the top. Scrape off, or scrape aside with a spoon any batter that is not set. Spread butter over the parts that are done, and cut them away with a wetted knife. While warm, roll them round a wooden-spoon handle, forming them into tubes, or quickly twist them into horn-shapes, pointed at the bottom. Should one part colour in the baking before the rest, cut it away and proceed as above. The batter may also be used broken up, or in flat slices. 707. “ Farferlteig ”— Farferl Paste. Beat an egg well with half a cup of water and a little salt, using a two-pronged fork, with which stir the above into half a pound of flour, rapidly breaking it up into flakes. They may be used for the following dishes. 708. “ Milch Farferl ”— Milk Farferl. The above quantity may be thrown into about three pints of boiling milk ; keep it boiling five or six minutes. Serve with either salt or sugar. 709. “ Zwiebel Farferl ”— Onion Farferl. Slice onions in a stew-pan with two or three ounces of butter, and when they are done yellow stir in the farferl. Continue the stirring over the fire for several minutes, but do not let them brown. Have boiling a saucepan of water with a handful of parsley and some salt in it. Throw the farferl into this, let them boil a few minutes; strain them through a cullender and serve. 710. “ Farferl in Siippe ”— Farferl in Soup. The farferl may bo fried a little, in just butter enough to keep them from clogging when they are stirred ; then throw them into boiling soup for six or eight minutes.