96 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. a pale brown. Or, instead of frying, serve the tripe in soar sauce. The latter may also be served with fried tripe. 370. “ Kaldaunen"—Tripe. (Ab, 2.) Tripe, well boiled In water, with onions and herbs, then cut out with various small cutters, may be used to advantage in fricassees of any kind. Or, cut into shapes, fried in egg and crumbs, sprinkled wdth lemon-juice, salt, and white* pepper, and garnished with parsley and lemon, it forms a pretty side-dish. 371. “Kaldaunen"—Tripe. (iVb. 3.) Boil the tripe in water merely to cover it, and with it an onion or two stuck with a few cloves. When done quite tender, drain and let it cool, then cut it into small dice. Brown two tablespoonfuls of flour in butter, thin it by stir- ring in a little broth ; or some of the water in which the tripe was boiled. Add some minced onions, a little \inegar, a bay- leaf, a couple of slices of lemon, and some salt and pepper. Let the sauce cook thoroughly, then pass it through a coarse sieve, and put it to the tripe, which must simmer in the sauce a short time before serving. 372. “ Kdnujsberger Fleck ”— Tripe. {No. 4.) Having blanched and boiled the tripe tender, cut two or three onions small and steam them soft in a good piece of butter. Mix a thickening of milk and flour or bread-crumbs, to make a thick sauce. Add some chopped parsley, a sprig of marjoram, a little nutmeg, some white pepper, and salt. Stir till it boils thick and smooth. Cut the tripe in long narrow strips, and let it simmer a little while in the sauce. 373. “ Hamburger Eindjleisch ”— Hamburg Beef to Pickle. Take the short ribs, brisket, and any parts from which the bones can be taken out; and to fifty or sixty pounds of these pieces use the following pickle :— Mix four pounds of salt with a quarter of a pound of saltpetre. B,ub some well into the beef, and keep the rest to sprinkle between the layers. Peel and slice a pound and a half of onions, half a pound of shalots, and an ounce of garlic. Mix with these two ounces of bruised white pepper, a good handful each of marjoram, thyme, and basilicum, all picked from the stems, a handful of bay-leaves, a quarter of