249 KUCHEN. ounces each of powdered sugar, sultana raisins, currants, candied peel, almonds blanched and pounded, and a little grated lemon-peel; whisk the egg-whites to a stiff snow, and mis it with the rest. Butter a shallow cake-tin well, strew it with fine crumbs, and bake it in a moderate oven ; turn it out, and sift sugar plentifully over. 883. “ Mandel Kitchen ”—Almond Cake. Blanch and pound half a pound of almonds ; beat them well with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar and the yolks of eight eggs. Soak the crumb of two rolls in cold milk, press it out, and add it with two ounces of thinly-cut candied peel to the almond mixture. Stir all briskly, then add the whites of six eggs whipped to a snow and well stirred in. Bake it in a shallow mould well buttered and sprinkled with raspings and crumbs. When the cake is done turn it out, stick it all over with blanched almonds cut in slices, half the length showing; sift plenty of sugar over when cold. 884. “ Mandel Kuchen ”— Almond Cake. {No. 2.) Blanch half a pound of almonds, and cut each one length- ways into four or five shreds ; peel a lemon thin, and cut the peel into thread-like strips. Boil this and the almonds with the juice of the lemon and a quarter of a pound of sugar, until it thickens like a syrup. Meantime, spread a flat tin with good tart-paste, pour the syrup away from the almonds and peel; spread the latter over the paste, and bake in a quick oven. When cold, pour the syrup over the cake. 885. “ Guss Torte,” or “ Kuchen ”—A Fruit Cake. (“ Guss ”—a creamy mixture.) Line a tin with thin tart-paste; spread on it any kind of preserved or fresh fruit that has been stewed with sugar and cooled. Then pour over it the following “ guss : ” two ounces of sifted sugar, two ounces of pounded almonds, two eggs, and a drachm of cinnamon, thoroughly beaten, with as much sour cream as will make the mixture flow smoothly. Bake it a pale yellow colour. 886. “ Kuchen Michel"—A Savoury Cake. Mix two large tablespoonfuls of fine flour smooth with four eggs, and milk enough to make the mixture as thin as