75 SALADS. 288. “ Enclivien Salat ”—Endive Salad. Only the inner yellowish leaves should be used. Cut 'out the stalks and thick ribs. Wash well, and shake the water out. Cut up, and serve it with plain dressing or either of the salad creams. Anchovies or sardines, cut in strips, are good as a garnish and accompaniment. 289. “ Eartoffel Salat"—Common Potato Salad. Small potatoes, which are wasteful to peel and cook with larger ones, should be sorted out for salads. Boil them in their skins, and, while warm, peel and slice them thin. IMince chives, parsley, or onion very line, and strew it over the potatoes in the salad-bowl. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour over two or three spoonfuls of oil, and moisten the whole with vinegar and water mixed, that it may not he too sour. Chives or onion may, of course, bo omitted. Several things are mixed with potato salad, both for flavour and appearance; such as pickled beetroot sliced, a fresh cucumber sliced as usual, a Dutch herring cut up small, or a few sardines minced. Only one of these things, be it understood, should be mixed with the potatoes before the oil and vinegar. 290. “ Eartoffel Salat ”—Potato Salad. (No. 2.) Another homely potato salad is made thus:—Having cooked and sliced the potatoes into a salad-bowl or vegetable- dish, cut two or three rashers of bacon into very little dice, and fry them a pale brown. When done, pour a small cup of vinegar and water into the frying-pan ; give the bacon a stir in it; add pepper and salt, and pour all over the potatoes. Minced onion or chives may be used with this salad if not objected to. In many parts of Germany, where geese are fattened for the sake of their lard or dripping, the latter is much preferred to olive oil for potato salads. If the potatoes have absorbed the moisture, pour over a little milk when serving, as this salad should not be dry. 291. “ Bolmen Salat ”—French Bean Salad. String and boil French beans as for table, in salted water. Drain them well, and, when cold, mix with them oil, vinegar.