GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 154 ance with the point of a knife or teaspoon. Grate cheese over, sprinkle •with warmed butter, and bake a delicate colour. 553. “ Kartoffel Brei ”— Masked Potatoes. Well-cooked mealy potatoes must be steamed dry, then mashed quite smooth with a good piece of butter, some salt, and milk enough to make them quite moist. Serve the Brei hot, with fricandells, sausages, or any dry meat. 554. “ Kartoffeln mit Schweinsrippe und saure 'Aepfel gebra- ten ”— Potatoes with Sparerib of Pork ami Sour Apples. Sparerib of pork must he set on the fire in a large stew- pan or iron saucepan, with nearly a pint of water and some salt. Cover close and let it simmer gently for an hour and a half, "WTien nicely browned, take it up and fill the bottom of the saucepan with small round potatoes, raw. Lay the sparerib on them 'with its round side upwards. Fill the hol- low of the pork -with sour apples, peeled and quartered. Add a little more water, hut not enough to sodden the potatoes. Cover the saucepan close, and simmer till the potatoes are done, when all -wall be ready. Dish the meat -vvith the pota- toes round it. 555. “ Haring Kartoffeln ”— Herringcd Potatoes. Boil potatoes in then- skins, not too soft. Peel and slice them. Keep them warm while j’^ou cut up an onion in a stew-pan, with a piece of butter, or some very thin fat bacon. When the onion begins to turn yellow, dredge it "with flour ; add some water, salt, pepper, two or three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and a hay-leaf. Leave this to simmer. Meanwhile, wash two Dutch herrings, take the bones out, cut the fish into small dice, add them to the sauce to simmer a few minutes ; then put in the potatoes. Stir all together gently, so as not to break the slices. Add a piece of butter and some milk to soften the stew, and serve it quite hot. 556. “ Kartoffeln mit Sardellen ”— Potatoes %i ith Sardines. Slice parboiled potatoes half an inch thick. Melt a piece of butter in a stew-pan and put in a layer of half the pota- toes. A couple of chopped onions and some parsley must be steamed, with a piece of butter, in a small stew-pan. Chop sardines, or anchovies, and stir them into the latter. Stew