SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY. 257 Warm the milk and stir the yeast into it. Put the flour in a pan and throw the sugar among it. Make a hollow in the middle and stir the yeast and milk into the hollow like a thin batter. Cut up the butter on the flour. Cover, and set it to rise. Then beat it until the dough no longer hangs to the hand or spoon. Let it rise again till it cracks on the top. Cut and mould from the dough long cakes an inch thick, five or six inches long and two broad. Set them on a buttered tin two inches apart, let them rise on this; then brush them over with milk and bake them. Next day, slice them open with a sharp knife, lay them on a tin with the crust under, and put them in a cool oven till they are crisp and baked yellow. 910. “ Ziviehack”—Busks. [No. 2.) Beat six eggs well, melt a quarter of a pound of butter in half a pint of new milk, stir into this a quai’ter of a pint of fresh yeast and three ounces of powdered sugar. Then stir in, by degrees, as much flour as will make a batter so thick that the spoon moves with difficulty. Cover, and place it in wannth to rise. In about an hour sprinkle flour in, and work it well together, but not to a stifl' dough. Form cakes as described in the foregoing recipe, and finish the same' way in all particulars. Either carawaj^s or anise-seeds may be mixed in them. The latter are very good and wholesome for infants’ food. 911. “ Hefen Seelen ”— Tea Bulls. These are excellent tea rolls. Set a pound and a quarter of flour to warm in a pan. Stir six ounces of warmed butter with two ounces of sifted sugar, two tablespoonfuls of good yeast, a well-beaten egg, the yolks of two others, and a cup of lukewarm milk. Pour, by degrees, the mixture into the flour, beating it well with a batter spoon till you have a thin dough which will no longer hang to it or the sides of the pan. A little more milk must be added in the working if necessary. It must be long and well beaten. Form little oval rolls by taking up a spoonful of dough each time. They must not bo more than an inch thick in the middle. Mould them to a point at each end. Lay them two inches apart on a buttei’ed tin. Put them in a warm place to rise, which will take about an hour. Beat the whites of the two eggs s