SMALL PASTRY AND CONFECTIONERY, 259 in frying. The frying-pan must be very hot, and well supplied with rendered-down butter or sweet lard. Fry as many cakes at a time as you can conveniently turn in the pan; both sides must be done a clear yellow brown, not dark. Lay them on a napkin when done, that no friture may hang about them. When they are cold, sift sugar over them, or ice them over with the white of an egg or two whisked to a snow, with a little lemon-juice and sifted sugar enough to form a creamy icing, which must be laid on with the paste-brush. Set the pancakes in a cool oven or before the fire to dry a little. 914. “ Berliner PfannJcuchen"—Berlin Pancakes. {No. 2.) Ingredients :—A pound of flour dried and sifted, half a pint of lukewarm milk, three ounces of butter warmed, an ounce of sifted sugar, the yolks of ten eggs, half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and pounded, a little salt, and three tablespoonfuls of yeast. Set a sponge in the flour of the milk and yeast stirred together, and when it has risen add the other ingredients, stir and beat altogether till the dough falls from the spoon. Leave it to rise again, then turn it out on the paste-board and roll it out not quite half an inch thick. Cut out round cakes of about two and a half inches in diameter. Lay on the centre of these a teaspoonful of nice preserve, which must be thick. Moisten the margin of paste, lay another cake over and press the two edges together. Lay them on a floured napkin to rise near warmth, then fry them in rendered-down butter a delicate brown on both sides. Strew mixed sugar and cinnamon over while warm. 915. “ Berliner Pfannkuchen ”— Berlin Pancakes. {No. 3.) A pound of flour, three ounces of sugar, three ounces of butter, one ounce of dried yeast, four eggs, whites and yolks, well-beaten, the grated peel of a lemon, a pinch of salt, a grate of nutmeg, and about half a pint of milk. Proceed as in the foregoing. 916. Hefen Kolatschen”—Little Bans. Beat six ounces of butter to cream. Add the yolks of six eggs, two ounces of sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, an ounce of dried yeast mixed in a cup of warm milk, and a pound of flour, with enough sour cream to mix the whole