99 MEATS. 879. “ PoIniscJies Sraszy ”—Polish Sraszy. Cut from the fillet, or underloin, or very best broiling part of beef, steaks about three-quarters of an inch thick; shape them round, and beat them well with the blade of a kitchen- knife or cutlet-bat. Put a good-sized piece of butter in a shallow stew-pan, and when it is thoroughly hot lay in the steaks. Add salt, pepper, and a good pinch of finely powdered cloves, from four to six in powder. Mince fine a large Spanish onion, or two or three smaller ones, and a small clove of garlic the size of a coffee-berry all together, put them in a small stew-pan apart with a piece of butter, and let them steam, covered, until soft and yellow, but not burnt. Add these to the steaks when the latter are done a nice delicate brown on both sides. Cover the pan, and let them steam until tender. Baste them now and then with their own gravy ; if this dries away add some broth, grav}', or water. Pour off the gravy a quarter of an hour before serving; take the fat off; thicken it with a little flour, and return it over the meat. Serve with potatoes fried in slices, or small whole ones, nicely browned in butter. 380. “ Bmif a la Mode — Beef d la Mode. Choose a nicely-formed piece of the round. Beat it well all over. Cut strips of bacon for larding, and roll these in a mixed spice of pounded cloves, nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Lard the beef all over. Lay a few rashers of bacon in a stew-pan ; on these some slices of onion, or an onion halved, which can be taken out after if desirable ; a quarter of a lemon sliced, a couple of bay-leaves, and two or three brown crusts of bread. Lay the beef on these. Pour over a tumbler of claret, a wineglass of vinegar, and broth enough to half cover the meat. Cover closely, and leave it to simmer till the meat is tender ; then take it up carefully ; skim the fat off the sauce, and pass it through a coarse strainer. Return the sauce and meat to the stew-pan, and let it steam till served. Dish altogether. 381. “ Ochsenmaul"— Ox Cheek. An ox cheek and palate must be well washed in lukewarm water, then laid for some time in cold water. Set them on the fire in cold water, and simmer till tender; but first take up