258 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. and a dessert-spoonful of powdered sugar together, and when the rolls are nicely risen, brush them over with this glazing and bake them a delicate colour, not brown. Finely minced almonds strewn over before baking improve the rolls. 912. “ Fasehings Erapfen ”— Carnival Fritters. IVhisk two eggs well, add to them an ounce of sifted sugar, two ounces of warmed butter, two tablespoonfuls of yeast, a teacup of lukewarm milk, and a little salt. Whip all well together, then stir in, by degrees, a pound of flour, and, if requisite, more milk, making thin dough which you can hardly stir. Beat it until it falls from the spoon, then set it to rise. When it has risen, make rendered-down butter or lard hot in a frying-pan, cut from the light dough little pieces the size of a walnut, and, without moulding or kneading, fry them pale brown. As they are done, lay them on a napkin to absorb any friture. 913. “ Berliner Pfannkuchen ”—Berlin Pancakes, Stir three tablespoonfuls of yeast, or an ounce and a half of dried yeast, into half a pint of lukewarm milk; mix this with half a pound of flour, and set it to rise. Have a pound of flour warming in another pan; add to this the grated peel of half a lemon, half an ounce of bitter almonds blanched and pounded fine, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, a little nutmeg grated, a little salt, and the yolks of eight eggs. When the yeast batter has risen, add it to the other in- gredients, and use lukewarm milk enough to make the whole as thick as a light bread dough. Now add half a pound of warmed butter, and beat the mass at least a quarter of an hour, until it is so smooth and light that bubbles appear, and it drops from the spoon. Cover, and let it partly rise, then slightly work it together again. Take a part of it at a time on the paste-board, roll it out a bare half-inch thick, and with a round cutter, two inches and a half in diameter, cut out cakes. On half of these put a teaspoonful of some nice thick preserve, such as plum, raspberry, or apricot, leaving a good half-inch margin of paste round the preserve. Moisten this round and lay another cake on the top. Press them round, and if spread at all, cut them out again with the same cutter. Lay them on a floured tin, and set them in a warm place to rise, but not too high, or they will absorb the friture