GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 178 686. “ Leber Klusse ”— Liver Klosse. Stir three ounces of butter to a cream ; then beat four or five eggs ■with it. Add a pound of finely minced raw liver, a quarter of a pound of rather fat bacon chopped small, six ounces of gi-ated bread, salt, pepper, and whatever herb you may prefer to flavour. Mix the mass thoroughly ; throw a small hall of it into gently boiling water to see if it holds together; if not, add more grated bread. Form egg-sized klosse. Boil them in broth or water a good half-hour. Remains of these are good next day, sliced asunder, dipped in egg, sprinkled with crumbs, and fried. 637. “ Leber Klosse”—Liver lUbsse. {No. 2.) Mince half a pound of raw liver small. Soak in milk a good slice of bread; press out, and add it to the liver, with a little grated lemon-peel, parsley, chives, salt, pepper, or very little sage, and onion. Sprinkle in a tablespoouful of flour ; then add two well-beaten eggs. Form, with a spoon, egg-sized klosse. Boil them half an horn'. Put a little butter in a frying-pan or casserole ; crisp a little finely chopped bacon in it; pour this over the klosse, and serve at once. 638. “ Leber Klosse fur Sup2)en ”—Liver Klosse for Soujis. Half of a calfs liver cleared of skin and chopped veiy small, a rasped roll or slice of bread, soaked and pressed out, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped fine, the yolks of four eggs and whites of two added; well mix all together, with parsley, salt, pepper, and a saltspoouful of any approved herb powder. Sprinkle in gi’ated bread enough to bind the mass so that the balls may just hold together. Boil as directed for others, and serve in soup. 639. “ F'ranif irtcr Klosse ”—Frunhfoi't Klosse. Cut two or three stale rolls into dice. Pour ou the half of them as much milk as they will absor-b, but do not make them too wet. Fry the other half in butter a pale brown. Cut a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon into little dice ; put it in a stew-pan with a little minced onion and parsley. When done a pale yellow, add the fried and soaked bread, with salt, pepper, three beaten eggs, and enough flour or potato-flour to bind the mass, so that largo kliisse can be formed which will not run flat in an instant. They must bo rather larger than an