II5 MEATS. stew-pan with a pint of water, and keep it over a moderate fii’e, covered, until the water is nearly cooked away ; then let the meat brown on both sides with stronger heat. Pour off the fat, dredge in a little flour, and add water enough for gravy. Peel two or three large cucumbers, quarter them, and take out the seeds. Mince an onion, and put this, with the cucumbers, in with the meat. Let them simmer till yellow. Add a couple of tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Cover close and simmer till the sauce is smooth and rich. 432. “ Oefidlte Hammelschulter ”— Shoulder of Mutton Stuffed. Take the bones out of a shoulder of mutton without cutting through the upper skin. Kub it over with salt and pepper. Fill the inside with a savoury forcemeat; skewer it into a neat oval form, or bind it with tape. Lay it in a stew-pan, with two onions, two carrots, some herbs, a bay-leaf, pepper, salt, and a little broth or water. Stew it gently over a slow fire or in the oven, basting often. When nearly done, take off" the cover and let the meat brown in the oven. Before serving, take up the meat, carefully remove the binding, and place it on a dish to keep warm while you strain the gravy, take all the fat olf, and boil it down to a strong glazing. Pour this over the meat. Serve with “ gurken sauce.” 433. “ Hammelschale oder Kettle, wie Wild ”— Shoulder of Mutton prepared as Game. Hang a joint of mutton as long as it will keep. Beat it well and clear it of skin and fat. Lay it in the marinade directed for hare. Add to this a glass of red wine. Turn and baste the mutton every morning for eight days. Lard it with bacon, and cook it in every way as directed for hare. 484. “ Hammelbrust ”— Breast of Mutton. Slowly boil a breast of mutton in just water enough to cover it, with an onion or two and some parsley to flavour the meat. When done enough for the bones to slip out, take it up carefully, and while hot draw out the bones. Let the meat get cold, then cut it into nice pieces ; season them with salt and pepper, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in butter a delicate brown ; or make butter hot, beat