304 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. "WTiisk all together over the fire until scalding hot, but do no let it boil. 1089. “ Mecldenhurg Punsch ”— Cold Mecklenburg Punch. Rasp off the yeUow rind of two lemons with a pound of lump sugar. Pour on this a pint of good green tea, then a bottle of cognac, a bottle of Madeira, and two bottles of good claret. 1090. “ Dreifuss ”— Trevet. Three pints of good red wune, a quarter of an ounce of stick cinnamon, half a drachm of vanilla bruised, and half a pound of sugar. Set these over the fire. Meantime, whisk the yolks of eight eggs well, with a little powdered sugar and a glass of cold wine. Watch the casserole, and when the wine is hot, whisk in the eggs, and keep stirring until it appears to be just coming to a boil; then draw it back from the fire, and continue whisking for a few seconds. Be sure it does not boil. 1091. “ Schaumhier”—Frothed Beer. For this the ingredients are, a quart of ale, a lemon, four eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half a teaspoon- ful of grated ginger, and the same of powdered cinnamon; or, instead of the latter, a quarter of a nutmeg grated. Whisk the eggs well w'ith some of the beer by degrees. Rasp off the yellow of the lemon with some of the sugar lumps. Put all the sugar in an enamelled stew-pan, and squeeze the lemon-juice over, taking out the pips. Add the other ingredients. Whisk all over the fire till scalding hot, but it must not boil or it W’ill curdle. Keep on whisk- ing or milling with the wire rod until served. Use tumblers for it. 1092. “ Befoitnirtcr Thee ”— Beformed Tea. Set a quart of milk on to boil, throw in one or two teaspoon- fuls of fine green tea, and an inch of stick cinnamon. Let these infuse two or three minutes in the simmering milk; then take them out and sweeten the milk to taste, with lumps of sugar on which the yellow rind of a lemon has been rasped off. Beat the yolks of four eggs in a large jug, and stir the boiling milk into it, until it froths uicclj'. Serve it in tea- cups.