241 TORTEN. almonds, the grated rind of a lemon, half a pound of fine dry flour, and the yolks of ten eggs ; these must be stirred in before the flour. Stir all well for half an hour, then add the whites of the eggs whisked to a stifl' snow. Of this mass bake, on paper plates, as before described, three or four flat cakes. Peel, core, and slice eight or ten flne apples ; put them in an earthen or enamelled stew-pan, with suflicient sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and about an ounce of butter ; let them stew to a thick conserve, then stir in the yolks of three eggs and the juice of a lemon ; stir the conserve for a few seconds over the tire ; then turn it out, and stir in directly a glass of arrack or rum. When cold, lay one cake over the other with a fair division of the conserve between, leaving the top one uncovered. Pare the cake smooth all round, and ice it over, or strew it thickly with sifted sugar. 851. “ Wiener Souffiee ”— Vienna Soufflee, a Dinner Dish. A quarter of a pound of butter must be stirred to a cream, then a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar added, and the yolks of six eggs. When you have stirred this half an hour, add the juice of half a lemon and an inch of vanilla flnely pounded. Lastly, add the six egg-whites whipped to a snow ; bake the mixture in a buttered form three-quarters of an hour in a slow oven. When it has risen high and is nicely colonred, sift sugar over, and serve it without delay. 852. “ Oinjelhopfen”—Savoy Cake, or German Brioche. Beat a pound of butter to a cream. Stii’ in, by degrees, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, sixteen well-beaten eggs, a pound and a half of flne flour, and a pint of good milk. Stir all nearly an hour. Then add two tablespoonfuls of good yeast, a little salt, and a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins. Some throw in a handful of currants, but these are not necessary. Butter thickly a large Turk’s-cap or brioche mould, strew it with chopped almonds, and dredge it with sugar. Fill the mould three parts full, and set it in a warm place to rise, which will take from two to three hours. When risen, set it at once in a moderate oven. About an hour will bake it. Do not let it get more than pale brown. Turn it out of the mould warm, and when cold, sift a little sugar over it. R