FARINACEOUS DISHES. 205 a piece of butter in the omelet-pan; pour in the eggs, and wth a knife stir and chop them till nearly set; then leave the omelet to brown, but not a dark colour. It should be fried quickly, and before it becomes hard roll it together; let it rest for a moment, and dish it on a napkin with the under side up. Serve directly with some good gravy or piquant sauce. 742. “ Omelette mit Kcise ”— Cheese Omelet. To six eggs and four tablespoonfuls of milk add two ounces of gi-ated cheese, some salt, and white pepper. Make butter quite hot in the pan, fry the omelet quickly, and serve it as soon as it is set and coloured a nice yellow. 743. “ Omelette mit Nieren ”— Kidney Omelet. Boil a kidney, and slice it very thin; salt and pepper it. When the omelet is just setting, spread over the kidney quickly; roll up the omelet and serve. Note.—Various omelets are made thus, and called after the ingredient added; for a sweet omelet, spread preserve or a layer of stewed fruit over when it has just set. Eoll or fold it over, sift sugar on it, and serve at once. 744. “ Damjifnudeln ”— Steamed Egg DumjMngs. Ingredients :—A pound of fine flour, three ounces of butter, two eggs, an ounce of sugar, a quarter of a pint of good milk or cream, an ounce of dry yeast or a small cup of fresh yeast, and a little salt. The milk must be lukewarm and well mixed with the yeast; then add the sugar, the eggs beaten and the butter warmed. Mix in the flour, and heat the whole till it is light and spongy; cover with a cloth, and let it rise by gentle warmth. Turn out the dough on a well-floured paste- board ; cut ofi" egg-sized pieces, and lightly roll them into round balls or ovals. Leave these on the paste-board to rise again. Put two ounces of butter in a broad, flat stew-pan, with a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and milk half an inch deep. Let this boil; take up the ctikes gently with a slice, and lay them close together in the boiling milk. Cover with the lid of the casserole, and put them in the oven till the milk is nearly dried away and the nudeln have a nice yellow crust. Take them carefully apart, sift sugar over, and servo with any sweet sauce, fruit, or syrup.