SAUSAGES. 329 must be again thrown into cold water and wiped with a clean napkin before using. If, after the sausages are made, there are any skins remaining, put them in a little jar with plenty of salt between, and over them. 1160. On Sausage Making. As general rules for making sausages, those given in No. 1121 for small, and in No. 1142 for large ones, may be relied on. Almost every district of a country has its own favourite flavour of spice or herb ; others prefer salt and pepper only. The art of seasoning consists in allowing no one flavour to overpower the rest. Clove and garlic are two of the most frequently used foreign seasonings, but they require to be so sparingly used that one can scarcely define what the flavour is that they impart, and then they are excellent. All sausages are improved by hanging a day or two, or longer, before they are cooked. 1161. Bread in Sausage Meat. The addition of bread is not often found in well-made German sausages, as it is considered to detract from their goodness. Sometimes, however, it is thought desirable to use it, firstly because it renders them less rich; secondly, it increases the quantity. To six pounds of meat allow no more than from a pound to a pound and a half of grated bread ; a pound, indeed, is enough. It must always be quite moistened with cold milk or water, and mixed in before the mincing is half done. Again it is advisable, when filling, to leave the mince rather soft in them, and, particularly, to prick with a needle any spaces of air. 1162. On Smoking Sausages. A “ Rauch Kammer ” (smoke-chamber) is rarely found in modern houses, in or near towns. The smoking of sausages, artificially, answers quite as well, however. Pyro- ligneous acid is pretty well known now to be the medium used in giving the smoke flavour to sausages, hung beef, fish, &c.—the brown pyroligneous acid sold by chemists. Pour a teaspoonful at a time of this in a saucer, and, with a wing feather or a little brush, wot the sausages all over once, and