TORTEN. 237 839. “ German Plum Cake ”—Plum Cake. Beat a pound of warmed butter to a cream. Stir in by degrees the yolks of twelve eggs, a pound of sifted sugar, the gi-ated rind of a lemon, a quarter of a pound of candied peel cut thin, a smalt nutmeg grated, eight cloves pounded tine, a little salt, a pound of fine flour, a pound of sultana raisins, and a pound of currants, both carefully washed, dried, and picked. When all is thoroughly well beaten, add the whites of the eggs whisked to a stiff snow, and a glass of arrack, rum, or Madeira wine. Line one large or two smaller cake-tins with buttered paper. Bake in a very moderate oven from an hour and a half to two hours. Set it back when it begins to colour yellow. Sprinkle the cake while warm with fine rum or arrack It is better kept a few days before cutting, and will keep good several weeks. 840. “ Magdalenen Torte”—Magdalen Cake. Stir six ounces of butter to a cream. Add by degrees ten eggs, half a pound of sifted sugar, then half a pound of fine flour. Stir all briskly for half an hour; then stir in an ounce and a half of candied orange-peel sliced very thin. Butter a cake-mould, strew it with shced almonds, fill in the mass, strew sliced almonds on the top, and bake it at once. 841. “ Linzer Torte"—Linzer Cake. There are many ways of compounding linzer torten, of nearly the same ingi-edients. Firstly, take three-quarters of a pound of flour, half a pound of butter, six ounces of sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, half a pound of sweet almonds, and half an ounce of bitter ones, blanched and pounded with white of egg to keep them from caking together hard, and the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs rubbed smooth. Put the floui- on the paste-board ; slice the butter on it in little pieces, and mix it in with the knife ; add the other in- gredients, and a few spoonfuls of milk, enough to form a smooth mass, as you would mix a short paste for tarts. Roll out, with dredging, a round cake, not more than a third of an inch thick. A large plate will assist you to cut it quite round. Lay it on a buttered paper on a flat tin ; spread over it a thick layer of apricot, raspberry, or other preserve, to ^v■ithin a good half-inch of the edge. Spin out, with rolling.