GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 44 in the lobsters; cover closely, and boil them slowly from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to their size. 158. “ Muscheln zu Sieden ”—To Boil Mussels. Boil salted water, in which you have put a handful of caraway-seeds. Have the mussels well washed. Throw them into the boiling water, when a very few minutes will cook them. Thay are done when the shells open. 159. “ Grediinstete Muscheln ”— Stewed Mussels. Wash them well, and put them on the fire without water. As they get thoroughly hot the shells open and they must then he taken from the fii’e. Save the li(juor or mussel gi’avy which the shells have let out in opening. Pull oS the beards of the fish, as also the little dark brown tongue, and the little threads of seaweed by which they are attached to the shell. Thicken the mussel gravy with flour and butter ; season it with salt, pepper, a little powdered mace or nutmeg, and stir in the mussels. Warm them thoroughly in the sauce, but do not let them boil. Serve with sippets of toast and lemon-juice. 160. “ Coquillen von Muscheln”—Scolloped Mussels. Well wash and drain the mussels. Put them in a deep dish or pan, and pour some milk over them; they will take in this and become white and fattened. Put them on the fire without water, two or three hours after the milk feed. Take them oflf as soon as the shells are opened. Pour their liquor into a basin to settle. Pull off the beards, tongues, and weed of the mussels, these being the indigestible parts. Pour the mussel gra%7- gently into a stew-pan, not disturbing the sediment in the basin. Make the liquor hot. Put in a piece of butter, some salt, ample pepper, a little nut- meg or mace, and as many bread-crumbs as the gravy will absorb to thicken it. Then stir in the mussels, and let them get quite hot, but not boil. Have well-cleaned, either scollop, large mussel, or deep oyster shells. Fill these with the stewed mussels; sprinkle over them a little oiled butter; give thorn a tinge of colour before the fire, or with a salamander; and serve with lemon-juice squeezed over.