GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 104 393. “ Kalbsbrust Fricassee ”— Breast of Veal Fricasseed. Lay a breast of veal in lukewarm water to whiten. Cut it neatly into pieces of a nice size to serve. Put butter in a stew-pan, with an onion sliced, a carrot, three or four cloves, some lemon-peel, and any favourite herb. Dredge the veal all over with plenty of flour, and put it in the stew-pan with a little water. Do not let the meat brown, but simmer it till the carrot is soft. When done, take out the veal with a slice. Skim the fat oflf the sauce, and strain it; add a little white wine, and stir in the yolks of two or three eggs. Put back the veal to get quite hot. Squeeze over the juice of a lemon. Serve with “ semmel kldsse.” 394. Kalbsbrust Fncassee, mit Blumenlcohl"—Breast of Veal Fricasseed uith Cauliflower. Make the fricassee as above. Let it have plenty of creamy sauce, to which end put in at the last a cup of milk with some flour in it;—a tablespoonful will do for a large cup of milk. Let this simmer awhile. Have ready a cauliflower, boiled in salted water, not too soft. Break this into small tufts, and throw them into the sauce. 395. Kalbs Fricandeau"—Fricandeau of Veal. A Cold Dish. Choose for this a large, well-formed piece of the fillet of veal; take the skin oAf, and beat it all over. Make holes in it with a pointed stick the size of a finger, and as you make each one fill it with a small slice of ham, tightly rolled, and, alternately, a piece of fat bacon, a good inch apart. Cover the bottom of a stew-pan with some rashers of bacon, an onion, and a carrot sliced, some whole pepper, a few juniper- berries, nearly a quart of strong veal broth or good stock, a couple of calves’ feet cut up, a glass or two of white wine, two or three slices of lemon, a wineglass of vinegar, and some salt. Lay the veal on these, and let all simmer, closely covered, three hours, basting now and then. Bo sure it does not boil to harden the meat; take this up carefully, and set it to get cold. If the gravy has not a fine brown colour, some sugar browning must be added; boil it then down to about half a pint. Strain the gravy, remove all fat from it, baste with it the cold veal until the latter has a fine coating of l)i-own jolly. Pour the rest of the gravy in a plate, and when set, cut it in small pieces, and gai’nish the veal with it.