327 SAUSAGES. minced fine. Fill in rather large skins and boil them an hour. 1153. “ ScJiwarten Magen ”—Sward Brawn. Have a swine stomach well cleaned, soaked in salt water, and the inner fat carefully scraped away. Boil tender as much of the sward (pork skin) as will half fill the stomach, and cut it up into little dice. Have the same weight of lean pork, of the neck or other part, boiled and cut up also ; then a fourth part as much solid fat parboiled and cut small. Mix a seasoning of salt, pepper, a little thyme, and marjoram, powdered fine and sifted, as also a drachm of powdered cardamom-seeds, and six pounded cloves. Mix the meat, sward, and fat together, sprinkling over them the seasoning and stirring it well in. Fill the stomach tightly with the mass, and secure it firmly by tying. Boil it slowly for an hour in the same liquor in which the sward and meat were cooked. When taken up, rinse it in cold water, lay it under pressure between two plates for a night, then hang it in smoke for a few days, and afterwards bind paper round and hang it in a cool, dry place. It is eaten cold, in thin slices, and will keep good for mouths. 1154. “ Schwarten Mar/en”—Swag'd Brawn. (Xo. 2.) Let the stomach be nicely prepared. Cut up raw pork, fat and lean together, in pieces the size of marbles, as much as will half fill the stomach. Have half the quantity of sward boiled tender and cut into little pieces, as also a couple of small tongues. Mix the meat, tongue, and sward with a teacupful of the blood salted and stirred when caught. Mix a seasoning of ample salt, pepper, four pounded cloves, and two teaspoonfuls of powdered cinnamon ; stir this well with the meat. Fill the stomach, not too tightly. Tie it securely and boil it two hours. Press it a night between plates and heavy weights, then hang it for ten days, after which it is ready for eating, and will keep any length of time. 1156. “ Wiirstchen Garnirung ”— Garnishing Sausages. These are very little sausages, used for garnishing vegeta- bles or other dishes. They are made with the usual propor- tions of meat and seasoning, flavoured and peppered in accordance with the dish they are to accompany. The meat for them must be minced to a pulp. If made of veal, to a