GERIVIAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 254 898. “ Ants Kriinze ”—Aniseed Wreaths. The same as above ; mixing in half an ounce or rather less of anise seeds. 899. “ Mandel Kriinze ”— Almond Wreaths, or Pangs. Put a pound and three-quarters of fine fiour in a pan, leaving out enough for dredging. Break up a pound of butter into small pieces, throwing it among the flour. Mix two ounces of yeast with half a pint of lukewarm milk, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and the yolks of two eggs. Pour this into the flour, and work it into a smooth, soft dough. Beat it until it will drop from the hand without sticking. Then cut oAT small pieces the size of an egg, roll them into long bars, curl them round in rings, and lay them on buttered tins, fixing the ends together, and leaving room between each for spreading. Set them in a warm place, and, as soon as they are risen, brush them lightly over with a beaten egg, and strew over coai’sely pounded almonds and sugar mixed. Put them at once, and gently, into a brisk oven to bake a rich yellow brown. Six ounces of almonds will be required to sprinkle over. Many persons mix a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon with the sugar and almonds. If a large kranz or two is preferred, divide, for one ring, a third part, and roll this into three long cords no thicker than the point of a finger, plait it in three, and form a ring. 900. “ Hefen Bretzeln ”— Crescent Buns. Mix a large tablespoonful of yeast into a good half-pint of warm milk ; stir it into a pound and a half of flour, and beat it well. In another pan beat half a pound of butter to cream ; add to this two ounces of sifted sugar, three eggs, another tablespoonful of yeast, and a little salt. Put the dough into this, and beat altogether thoroughly fill quite smooth. Cut off pieces the size of an egg. Boll them into round bars, from six to eight inches long, and tapering off at the ends. Lay them on buttered tins, curving them in half circles or new moon shapes, leaving space betAveen each. Put them by gentle warmth to rise, and when light, brush them over with egg; dust sugar over, and bake them a pale brown.