PASTIES. 227 cover, and let them steam tender; take them out, and into their stew-pan put the gravy and sufficient of the marinade to season the whole highly. Make a forcemeat of a pound of fresh pork, the liver of the hare, half a pound of bacon, half a pound of bread-crumbs, three eggs, some fine herbs, and seasoning to taste. Cook the forcemeat slowly, stirring until it is done. Spread half of this over the bottom of the dish ; lay in the pieces of hare with portions of the forcemeat between; cover and bake the pasty when it is drawn from the oven ; have the gravy boiled down to a proper quantity, and pour it through the hole in the lid. This pasty is equally good hot or cold. 812. “ Wild Pastete"— Venison Pasty. Cut the meat from the haunch or back, in pieces weighing from a quarter to half a pound; remove all skin and sinewy parts, beat the pieces well, and lard them thickly with little ships of bacon which have been coated with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and suitable spice mixed. Put these in a stew- pau.with butter and a sliced onion; cover, and let them steam tender; then take them out to cool. Make a forcemeat of the venison that hangs on the bones and any cuttings that are free from skin and vein, Avith equal parts of pork and bacon. The meat must all be minced to a smooth pulp, and is all the better for being rubbed through a coarse wii’e sieve, unless a mincing machine be used. Season the forcemeat highly Avith salt, pepper, pounded cloves, and if truffles are at hand, pound some of their peelings in a mortar Avith a Httle butter and mix them in ; mince tAvo or three shalots very fine, and Avith them a clove of garlic. Put these in a steAv-pan Avith a piece of butter, and Avhen they are steamed yellow, put into them the mixed forcemeat, Avhich must be steamed and occasionally stu-rod until the meats are no longer raAV. While all the preparation of meat and forcemeat is going on, the bones must have been chopped and boiling doAvn for a good gi'avy, Avhich must bo strained into the stew-pan with the remains in Avhich the larded meat Avas cooked, and out of this a good savoury gravy must bo made. Lay a third part of the forcemeat over the bottom of the pasty; then pack in the pieces of venison, with forcemeat and pieces of truffle or mushroom between, and the rest of the forcemeat on the top. Put on the paste-lid as usual, and