85 MEATS. days, turning and basting it every day. To prepare for cook- ing, wipe it dry; cut strips of fat bacon the size of a little finger ; roll them in a mixed seasoning of salt, pepper, a nd pounded cloves. Make holes in the meat with a large skewer, and put in the pieces of bacon. Make butter hot in an iron pot or stew-pan, just large enough ; put in the beef, and set it over a brisk fire, letting the steam escape to hasten the browning. Dredge it with flour, and turn it whe n one side is brown. When the meat is nicely coloured, add about a pint of water, a couple of carrots quartered length- ways, a large onion or two sliced, two or three bay-leaves, a teaspoonful of whole pepper, a blade of mace, the quarter of a lemon-peel, and a good sprinkling of salt. Cover closely, and let it steam slowly from two to three hours, adding a little water when necessary. At serving time, take up the meat and keep it hot while you skim the fat off and strain the gravy. The unbroken carrots may be laid round the meat. Add lemon-juice or vinegar if the sauce requires more acid ; thicken with flour ; give it a boil up; pour a little over the meat, and serve the rest in a sauce tureen. 333. “ Qebeiztes Oxenfleisch ”— Roast Beef Piquant. The piece of beef may be larded, or not. Lay it in a fitting pan or deep dish, with a cup of vinegar, a few shalots or a large onion sliced, two bay-leaves, a dozen juniper berries, a third of a lemon in slices, six cloves, a good tea- spoonful of black pepper, and a dessert-spoonful of moist sugar. Turn the meat every day in this marinade for three or four days. When you cook it, make butter hot and pro- ceed as in the last I’ecipe to brown the meat; after which, add the pickle, with a pint of water, and some carrots. Cover close, and finish it as directed for the foregoing. 334. “ Milch Sauerbraten”—Piquant Beef. {No. d.) Beat thoroughly, and brown a piece of fresh beef, as above; then add sour, thick milk and the above seasoning. Finish as before directed. 335. “ Schmorfleisch”—A Cold Dish. A nice piece of beef must be larded in rows, browned in a deep stew-pan, and all the seasoning given for sauer- braten added, with a strong jelly of calves’ feet or gelatine