GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 120 narrow slices, according to the width of each bone. Warm butter on a plate, beat an egg into this; dip each slice of breast into it; strew over grated bread, and broil them a delicate colour. Dish them, as a garnish to vegetables. 448. “ LammsgescliUiige"—Lamb's Pluck. Must be well soaked in cold water. Put it on the fire in cold water enough to cover it, and with it onions and the usual soup herbs and vegetables to flavour. Simmer it for about two hours, and let aU get cold together in the broth. Then take out the pluck and cut all into slices half an inch thick ; having dried the meat first, some of these can be dipped in egg, coated with grated bread, and fried in butter; cut up the remaining slices smaller, and set them aside while you strain the broth; add to it a thickening of flour and butter, a finely minced shalot or some chives, some chopped parsley, a little fine herb, and some white pepper, and salt. Let this stew down, with a good handful of bread-crumbs, to a thick smooth sauce, part of which may be ser^’ed with the boiled parts ; stir in the cut-up meat with the rest, make it quite hot, squeeze some lemon-juice over, and serve with or without a garnish of bacon rashers. 449. “ Lamnisgeschlinge nnd KojiJ"—Lamb's Head and Pluck. Lay head and pluck some time in cold water. The head must be split in halves. Take out the eyes, bind the head together with a piece of tape, and put it on, with the pluck, in just enough w-ater to cover the w’hole. Let it boil very gently till all is done ; with the seasoning vegetables as directed above. Set all aside to let the meat get cold in its broth. Dry the head, lay it open, spread egg and bread- crumbs over, sprinkle with hot butter, and give it a delicate brown in the oven, while you boil down the broth with seasonings and white thickening to a rich creamy sauce. Mince the pluck, salt nnd pepper it, stir the j'olks of a couple of eggs into the sauce, add the mince, give it a simmer together, and serve the head garnished with brains in one dish, and the mince garnished with the tongue for a vis-a-vis.