408 Appendix. “In the houses of the old nobility, the chef de became maitre d"hotel, the assistant-cook took the place of the cook, and the scullions became assistant-cooks. By these mutations, these ministers to the mouth (honttnes de boitche) attached them- selves more and more to these noble houses, and thus the masters nt once preserved their health and secured the comfort of their servants. “ In the epoch in which we live the first culinary talents vegetate at Paris, and London is enriched with our renowned cooks. “ A cook is Cl gastronome both by taste and by profession. “ A cook who is clean in his person is clean also in his work. “ In ancient and modern times, the talents of cooks were honoui’ed by kings, witness Mai'C Antoninus and the great Frederick. “ The French cook is esteemed by the great in distant lands ; he is sought for and appreciated. “ The French cook is incited to his work by a point of honour inseparable from the culinary art; witness the death of the great Vatel. “The French cook is happy in all the capitals of Europe, but he who does not wish to quit his country should have courage. “ At the Russian court the cook on duty (for there are four who take the work by turns every fortnight) always served his dinner en maitre dHiotel. This thoroughly gastronomical fashion should be generally adopted by amphitryons who love to make good cheer. O ^ “ The hypocritical valet is fatal to the tranquillity of a great establishment; he is vain, proud, paltry, crawling, lazy, and gluttonous; he is a tale-bearer for the purpose of gaining his master’s confidence, which he afterwards abuses; he is the Tar- tuffe of domestic life. , “ The upstart valet is self-sufficient and scented. “ The doctor speaks ill of the cook, in order that he may not lose his influence over the mind of the rich man; but the talent of a good cook tends more to the preservation of his master’s health than the factitious science of certain doctors, whose medical advice is regulated by their own interests. “The rich man who leads an irregular life ought rather to trust to the science of a cook to re-establish his health, if he