GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 2g8 1060. “ Johanisbeer Esdg ”— Currant Vinerjar. This fine vinegar is made by simply pressing the fruit to a mash. Let it stand a night, then strain the juice off clear and fill bottles to the brim. Set them uncorked in the sun, or in a ■warm place, until the fermentation ceases ; skim off any little impurity that rises with a piece of blotting-paper, and cork the bottles well. White currants are excellent for delicate pale vinegar. Red ones make a -vinegar equal to that made from the finest red wine. 1061. “ Himbeer Essig ”— Baspberry Vinegar. Mash two quarts of raspberries in an earthen vessel; put them in a large stone bottle or jar. Pour into them two quarts of good wine vinegar. Cork the jars lightly, and let the juice distil in the sun or warmth two or three weeks ; then filter clear and bottle it, corking it well. 1062. “ Himbeer Essig mit Zucker ”—Baspberry Vinegar with Sugar. Mash raspberries in an earthen bowl. To every pound of fruit add a pint of vinegar ; cover, and let it stand two or three days, then press it through a jelly-bag. To every pint put half a pound of lump sugar. Set the juice on the fire to come to a boil; take off any scum that rises; allow five minutes’ gentle boiling; set it to get cold, then pour it into small bottles and cork them well. 1063. “ Estragon,” or “ Bertram Essig "—Tarragon Vinegar. This vinegar is most useful in cooking. Pick tarragon- leaves from the stems, and put two handfuls in every wine- bottle required; fill up with good vinegar. Sliced shalots and a few bruised cloves are sometimes put in with the leaves. Cork well, and stand the bottles in the sun, or in a warm place, to distil. The vinegar will soon be ready for use, but age improves it. After a few weeks it maj' be filtered. A very little flavours a dish or salad. 1064. “ Zucker Essig”—Sugar Vinegar. To every three quarts of water put a pound of raw sugar. BoU it half an hour, skimming if neccssarj’. Set it to cool in an earthen vessel; when just out of the chill, not more than lukewarm, throw in a slice of bread with yeast strewn