GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, 150 and put the latter back to the liquor in the stew-pan, with half an ounce of gelatine previously soaked in cold water. Heads and necks, after scraping their meat off, must also be stewed with the other bones till you have about a pint of good gravy, which wiU now be a jelly. While the bones are stewing, lay in a few rashers of ham, bacon, or pork, to simmer till cooked, then take them out. Mince the scrapings and little pieces of meat very fine, with an equal quantity of bacon ; season this with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, thyme, and a grate of nutmeg ; bind it with an egg, and form little balls. Lay these also in with the bones to cook ten minutes; then take out the balls, and strain a little of the gravy into a deep dish or mould previously dipped in cold water, and let it flow round. Place in the pieces of rabbit, with balls be- tween, and here and there a half of a hard-boiled egg, a piece of dark-coloured liver or kidney, and a rasher of the ham or bacon, all arranged with contrast of colour, not too closely packed, till the mould is full. Season the jelly well; it should be piquant; strain it into the meat. When it has stood a night, scrape the fat off and turn it out. 543. “ Ganseschmalz zu bereiten ”— To prepare Goose Lard. When a goose is drawn, strip off all the fat from about the intestines, and any superfluous fat from the inside. Throw it into cold water in an earthen bowl; change the water after a few hours, and again at night. Let it stand in a cool place tfll next day ; then cut it into small pieces, and put it in a stew-pan, with a juicy apple or two cut in slices. Set it to melt on a slow fire', and when the pellets of fat are turning yellow, warm a sieve and strain the clear fat into a jar. Stir some salt in. Cover it when cold, and keep it in a cool place for use. 544 “Ganseschmalz"—Goose Lard. (Xo. 2.) Throw all the fat you can collect into cold water with a little salt, as soon as the goose is drawn. When the goose is half done, ladle ofl’ some of the dripping before it browns or becomes strong; and as the roasting proceed's, leave only enough dripping in the pan to baste with. Next day put the dripping with the fresh fat in a stew- pan, with slices of apple, and onion if approved. Add