102 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. little—cayenne pepper. Lay the veal on these; cover the casserole, and let it cook slowly by the fire, or in the oven, about three hours. It must be nicely browned, but neither dried nor burnt. Let it steam soft, then take it up. Strain the gravy, clear it from fat, and add browning or beet-root juice to colour it deeper. When the meat is quite cold, take off its binding. Remove any fat on the cold jelly, warm enough of this to coat over the meat, pouring it over with a spoon a little at a time. Cut up the rest of the jelly into rocky pieces and lay them on the meat. 388. “ Roulade von Kalbshrmt mit Aspic ”—Roulade of Veal uith Jelly. Take the bones out of a breast of veal from the under side, without dividing the upper meat. Spread it out as wide as you can by beating with a rolling-pin or mallet. Make a forcemeat of a pound of veal from the leg, and half a pound of bacon minced fine, with a small onion or shalot, a few sprigs of parsley, an ounce of capers, some grated lemon- peel, a little finely powdered thjune, or very little winter savory ; a cup of bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, and the yolks of three eggs. Spread this forcemeat over the inside of the veal, and on this lay, lengthways, a few narrow strips of bacon, half an inch thick; and between these, here and there, a small pickled gherkin, and the yolk of a hard- boiled egg. Roll up the meat carefully, skewer and bind it with tape. Put the bones in a stew-pan with some good broth or stock, a little vinegar, lemon-peel, and any deli- cate herbs to flavour. Simmer the veal in this very slowly for about three hours, letting it brown by degrees. Take the meat up, cut the ends smooth if necessary ; leave it bound until quite cold; then take ofl’ the tape and glaze the meat with clear, rich jelly, as directed for the foregoing dish. Instead of calves’ feet for the jelly, it may be made with good stock, the veal gravy, and isinglass or gelatine, nicely coloured. Have enough to ornament the meat with little rocks of jelly. 889. “ Winkclbraten Gcdiimpftcn ”— Steamed Roast of Veal. Loin of veal must be chopped away from the back-bone, and have the rib bones taken out. Take off the kidneys and any superfluous fat. Make a good forcemeat of veal, &c.