GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 2o8 together half an hour. Whisk the egg-whites to snow, and stir them gently in with the rest. Butter a mould well, strew it with grated bread, put in the mass, and bake it an hour. 758. “ Kastanien Avflauf"— Chestnut Anflauf. A pound and a half of chestnuts, boiled soft, peeled, and pounded, with two ounces of butter, and a tahlespoonfnl of thick cream. Beat the yolks of eight eggs well, \vith a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar ; stir in the chestnut mass and the egg-whites, whipped to a snow. Bake it in a well- buttered form in a moderate oven. 754. “ Kaiser Auflaitf”—Impenal Anflauf. Beat half a pound of butter soft, and stir in by degrees the yolks of ten eggs ; add half a pint of cream, four tablespoon- fuls of flour, some finely cut almonds, and some lemon-peel grated, or a piece of vanilla pounded with sugar enough to sweeten the auflauf. Bake it in a well-buttered form sprinkled with bread-crumbs. 755. “ Rahm Anflauf”— Cream Anflauf. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stew-pan, with two ounces of fine flour, and a piut of cream ; boil this mixture well, stirring continually till it leaves the sides of the pan; then turn it out to cool. Stir a quarter of a pound of butter to cream; add, by degrees, the yolks of ten eggs, with three ounces of sugar which has been pounded with vanilla, or rubbed upon the rind of a lemon. Next add the whites of six eggs, whipped to a snow, and then stir in the cool cream. Put it in a buttered mould, and steam it three-quiirters of an hour. 756. “ Kirscheu Anflauf”— Chcrn/ Anflauf. A quarter of a pound of butter stirred to a cream, the j'olks of six eggs, the crumbs of two rolls soaked in milk, a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and pounded, the grated peel of half a lemon, half a teaspoonful of powdered cinna- mon, and six ounces of sugar, must be well stirred together. Whisk the egg-whites to a stiif snow, add it to the mass, and mix in as many cherries as it will take; butter a mould, line it with as much grated bread as will hang on, and bake it without delay.