GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 174 625. “ Compote von Pfirsichen,” or “ Aprikoseii ”— Compote of Peaches or Apricots. Peel, and cut them in halves. Break the stones, and hlanch the kernels. Boil a clear syrup of sugar and water, with the kernels in it; then lay in the fruit to simmer for a minute or two. Pile up the fruit in a glass dish, and pour over the syrup, leaving in the kernels. 626. “ Compote von Eeineclanden ”— Compote of Green- gages. Ripe greengages, or strawberries whole, give a delicious compote, unboiled. Peel the greengages, or pick the straw- berries, and, as you put them in a glass dish, strew plenty of powdered sugar among and over them. Let them stand two or three hours in a cool place before using, when symp enough will be drawn from the fruit. 627. “ Compote von Pflaumen ”— Compote of Plums. Plums may be stoned and cooked as directed for peaches, or done whole. Prick the skins fii'st, as they must not be allowed to break. 628. “ Compote von Apfelsinen und Aepfeln ”—Compote of Oranges and Apples, mixed. Choose ripe, juicy apples. Peel, and cut them in very thin round slices, and strew them with powdered sugar. Slice half the number of oranges in their peels, also very thin, and sugar them. Lay in a glass dish alternate slices of orange and apple, one slanting half-way over the other, and so form rings of the fruit. This has a pretty effect if the apples are wiped well, and sliced with the peeling on. Strew sugar between and over them. Let the dish stand two or three hours before serving. A little white wine may be sprinkled over as soon as the dish is arranged and sugared, or syrup boiled and poured hot over the slices when arranged as above. Ser\e it quite cold. 629. “ Compote von Apfelsinen ”—Compote of Oranges. Peel oranges with a sharp knife, only as thick as the j'ellow rind. Peel all the white off, and slice the fruit. Strew plenty of powdered sugar between, and let it stand an hour; then strain olf the juice; add a little water and more sugar to the