GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. i6o 577. “ Holldndische Bohnen” or '' Bttfbohnen”—Broad Beans. When fall grown, their white, leathery skins mast be peeled off and the inner green beans thrown into cold water. Boil them sbft in salt water; they reqaire the same time as green peas. Strain and ponr over them a parsley and batter saace. Or: When slipped oat of theii* skins, dress them as directed for French beans. If the broad beans are yoang and small, dress them whole as taken from the pod. Boil tender ; strain, and poar over them a soar cream or other sauce. They are good cold, as salad. 578. “ Brockelerhsm ”— Green Peas. Put the peas in a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a few very young carrots shced the long way and then cut into narrow strips. Add salt and pepper and let them cook in their own steam. W”hen the peas begin to wrinkle, dredge in some flour, shaking them the while. Add a little gravy or water, and let them stew by gentle heat until soft, but not broken. Lamb or mutton cutlets, half-broiled, and put in at first to steam tender with the peas, are good. 579. “ Zuckcrschdfen"—Youn^ Green Pea Pods. Choose those with the largest pods, before the peas are full grown. String the pods as you would French beans. Shell out the peas and, at the same time, snap each shell in the middle and peel oft’ the green rind from the inner skin. Thus prepared, the rinds are cooked with the peas, in the following manner. After rinsing and draining, put them into a stew- pan with a piece of butter, salt, pepper, and ver}*^ little water or gravJ^ Let them stew gentlj"-, shaking them up now and then, till soft; make a little thickening of flour and butter, and stir it lightly into the peas ; steam a few minutes and serve. 580. “ Schweitzer Kraut ”—Matirjold. It docs the marigold no harm to pluck off the leaves when growing, as they sprout out again. The young tender ones are cooked as spinach. When they arc older, strip the green from the stalks, boil those leaves in salt water, strain, and