i86 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 669. “ Mandel Klosse ”—Almond Klosse. (No. 2.) Soak half a pound of slices of bread without crust in milk, and press out any that is too much. Add a quarter of a pound of warmed butter, the yolks of four eggs and whites of two, three ounces of sweet, and an ounce of hitter almonds, blanched and pounded, an ounce of candied peel cut thin, a pinch of salt, and sugar to sweeten. Mix all well together; take up klosse with a spoon, fry them in a well-buttered pan; lay them on a warm napkin to drain, and serve with sweet sauce, or powdered sugar over. 670. " Mandel Klosse"—Almond Klosse. (No. S.) Blanch a quarter of a pound of almonds ; pound them with a little water. Soak a roll or slice of bread without crust in cold milk, press it out, and mix it with the almonds, adding two eggs and sugar to taste. Stir well, form klosse the size of a large walnut, and fry them in butter or boil them in milk. 671. “ Kapuziner Klosse ”— Capuchin Klosse. Cut narrow French rolls m slices and lay them on a dish. Mix two or three beaten eggs with a cup of milk and some sugar ; pour this over the roll slices, to soak them through. Fry the shces in butter a pale brown on each side. TMien dished, stick on the top of each some strips of blanched almonds, cut the long way, and pour a sweet sauce over. 672. “ Gehackcne Klosse ”— Fried Klosse. Stir two tablespoonfuls of good thick yeast, or an ounce of dry yeast, into half a pint of lukewarm milk ; add a little salt and two eggs, stir in half a pound of flour, and set the mixture to rise in a warm place. "When it has risen, add a quarter of a pound of warmed butter, two tablcspooufuls of sifted sugar, and another half-pound of flour. Beat it well to a dough and let it rise again. Form little balls, and lay them on a floured tin, or pasteboard, to rise a third time ; then fry them in butter, carefully, a pale brown on both sides. Serve with preserved or stowed fruit. 673. “ Brod Klosse"—Bread Klosse. (No. 2.) Crumble three inside rolls. Lay three others in as much milk as they will absorb. Beat four eggs and add them to