MEATS. 95 any roots and herbs, celery, onion, or a clove or two of garlic, a carrot grated, a small bunch of herbs, a little spice, and sufficient salt and pepper. When the meat is quite tender, take out the pieces carefully, strain the sauce, add to it a glass of madeira, the juice of a lemon, some cayenne pepper, some capers or pickled gherkins cut small, a few very small shalots or button onions, and some brown thickening. *Put back the tails to simmer half an hour. The meat must be done enough to part from the bones, and the sauce thick and brown. 366. “ Oxengaumen ”— Ox Palates. Put them on in cold water and let them warm gradually. As soon as they are hot, take them up and pare off the hard white skin. Do not let them boil first, or the skin will be difficult to peel off. Put them on again in cold water, and let them simmer slowly about three hours. When tender, cut them in slices and serve as fricassee, in white savory sauce ; or cold in slices with a nice salad cream, and with or with- out salad. 367. “ Einds/uss ”— Cow Heel, or Neat’s Foot May be dressed in the same way as above. Or, when boiled, cut them in pieces ; melt butter in a stew-pan ; flour the pieces as you put them into it; add gravy, broth, or water enough to make a little thick sauce ; throw in some caraway-seeds, salt, and pepper, or, instead of the caraways, some shred parsley. 368. “ Eindehim zu Braten ”— Ox Brains. Lay the brains in plenty of lukewarm water to blanch. Put them into scalding water, with some salt, to boil slowly about half an hour. Take them up; drain, and divide them into small lumps ; dip these in a well-beaten egg ; sprinkle them with grated bread ; fry them in plenty of butter a delicate brown ; sprinkle with lemon-juice when done, and serve with slices of lemon as garnish. 369. “ Kaldaunen or Kutteljleclc ”— Trqie. Blanch the tripe in plenty of water. Set it on the fire in cold water, with onions and other roots, and a couple of bay- leaves. Let it boil till tender. Drain it, and when cold cut it in neat pieces, dip them in egg and crumbs, and fry them