GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 284 quarters. Set these on to boil till tender, in just water enough to cover them. Meantime scrape ofif the white skin from the oranges and crush them to a pulp. Take out the seeds carefully. When the rinds are boiled enough, drain them, and scrape away the soft white part from the yellow, cut the latter into very thin strips, weigh these and the fruit, and to each pound of the fruit and peel, allow three- quarters of a pound of sugar. Have the latter broken in largo lumps, moisten them with the water the peels were boiled in. Put the sugar in the preserving-pan, and when it has boiled five minutes put in the juice with the pulp, and let it boil slowly about half an hour, or until it is clear and the syrup begins to thicken to the consistency of cream. Then put in the peel, and let the boiling continue twenty minutes. Take the marmalade from the fire, and fill at once in small jars or glasses. For general family use, this method of making is good and economical, as the pulp will boil quite transparent, and give quantity. Some prefer to strain the fruit when mashed, and boil only the juice with the peel, proceeding as above. . 1015. “ Mohren 2Iaiynelacle ”— Carrot Marmalade. Boil a pound of large carrots until they are soft enough to run a pin through. Peel two lemons rather thin, and boil these yellow peelings in very little water till softened. Moisten three-quarters of a pound of lump sugar with the water in which the peels were boiled, and boil the sugar till beads begin to form. In the meantime, cut the carrots into thin slices, and then in very narrow strips. Cut the lemon-peel also in very thin strips. Add both to the sugar and strain in the clear juice of the two lemons. Boil gently as long as there is syrup. When this begins to thicken, take the pan from the fire, and, while warm, fill pots or glasses with the marmalade. 1016. “ Quitten Marmehule ”— Quince Marmalade, Boil quinces whole, in just water enough to cover them. When a pin will go easily through them, take them out and let them get cold, then peel and cut them in quarters. Take out the cores, and cut the fruit into thin slices ; weigh these and allow the same weight of sugar, which must be clarified as before directed. Pour the boding syrup over the quinces.