SAUCES. 59 Stir well till it boils again, then take it from the fire, and stir it into the yolks of two eggs. Good with whiting, smelts, or other delicate fish. 220. “ Sdchsische Sauce ”—Saxony Sauce. Put a piece of butter in a casserole, with a tablespoonful of flom', to thicken till almost haked. Then add the requisite quantity of water in which fish was hoiled, a minced shalot, a little white wine, a little pale vinegar, and a good teaspoonful of mustard; the latter should predomi- nate. Stir until it boils well. When about to be served, put into it some very thin slices of lemon and a piece of cold butter to make it oily. 221. “ Hilriny Sauce ”—Herring Sauce. Lay a Dutch herring in milk or water to soak out the salt, then take out the bones and mince it fine. Put a piece of butter in a stew-pan with two or three minced shalots or an onion; let them steam soft; then add a tablespoonful of flour to thicken, and j)our on it half a pint of broth or water. Add two hay-leaves, some pepper, and lemon-juice or vinegar, and let the sauce hoil five minutes. Then take out the bay- leaves ; put in the minced fish with a piece of cold butter ; let this warm, and when serving stir in the yolks of two eggs. 222. “ Fasten Sauce, Weiss”—Fust-day Sauce, White. Have a quarter of a pound of hutter, and three tahle- spoonfuls of flour, mixed smooth in a stew-pan. Stir into this a pint and a half of clear fish hroth, and boil it as usual. Have stewed, in another saucepan, in thin slices, an onion, a carrot, a head of celery, some parsley, and a piece of butter; these also must he cooked in a little fish hroth; and when they are done soft, add the butter sauce. Boil all well together, add any other seasoning, strain it, and it is ready for use in any quantity. Lemon-juice or white vinegar may be added at will. 223. “Fasten Sauce Braun”—Fast-day Sauce, Brown Is the same as above, except that the flour must be browned in the butter at first, and the roots also browned in butter before the fish broth is poured in.