II9 MEATS. together six cloves, six juniper-berries, and a teaspoonful of black pepper ; mix these with the herbs. Rub the mixture well into the lamb all over, and lay it in a deep dish; sprinkle over any remains of the seasoning; mix a glass of rod wine with a glass of vinegar, pour it over the meat, and let it lie in this marinade two or three days, turning and basting it every day. Before cooking, wipe off the herbs. Lard the joint if preferred. Put it in an earthen baking-pan and cover it with pieces of butter. Add a little broth or boiling water to the marinade in the pickling-dish. Put this on the fire to simmer a minute in a little saucepan, then strain and add some by degrees to baste the meat with, and when this is nicely browned, put the rest of the marinade in the baking- dish, with a good sprinkhng of salt in the sauce and over the meat. The latter must be frequently basted to prevent its drying. An hour and a half is long enough to bake it. Pour a cup of cream or good milk over it a few minutes before serving; stir this well round the crusting of the dish. Skim the fat off the sauce. Put the yolk of an egg in the sauce tureen, and stir the gravy boiling hot into it. Garnish the meat with slices of lemon. 446. “ Gef illlte Lamrnbrust ”— Breast of Lamb Filled. Take out the hones as well as you can without cutting through the upper skin of the breast. Put them on in a little water to stew for gr.avy. Make a delicate forcemeat as directed for veal; spread this over the under side of the breast, which must then be rolled and skewered in a neat oval form._ Make butter hot in a deep stew-pan. Lay in the meat, and set it over a brisk fire, to brown all over, turning it as soon as one side is coloured. When brown enough add the gravy from the bones, with salt and white pepper. An onion and some browning must have been added to the sauce whUe stewing. Strain before adding it to the meat. Cover close, and let it steam till soft and tender. Serve with spinach, peas, or asparagus. 447. “ Geriislele Lammbrml”— Breast of Lamb Broiled. Set on the breast of lamb in cold water, with a large onion, some parsley or celery, salt, pepper, and two or throe cloves, and a strip of lemon-peel. Let it simmer till nearly done ; then take out the meat, and when cold, divide it into