GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 256 905. “ Stolle,” or “ Striezel ”— A long Roll. Mix two ounces of dry yeast with half a pint of warm milk, and half a pound of flour. Set this to rise. Then take a pound and a half of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, four eggs, an ounce of bitter almonds pounded, half a nutmeg, the grated rind of a lemon, a little salt, and milk enough to work these into a dough. Add to this the light sponge dough, and mix both well. Add half a pound of softened butter, half a pound of stoned raisins, half a pound of currants, two ounces of sweet almonds cut in slices, and the same of candied peel. Knead the whole, cover, and set it to rise. When light, flour the pasteboard, turn the cake out and mould it into a long roll. Lay it on a flat baking-tin. Cut, with a knife, two slits all along the roll, near an inch deep, so that the three divisions on the top are equal in width. Set it to rise. Bake it in a moderate oven. When done rub it over with butter, and strew sugar over when cold. 906. “ Anis Brod ”— Aniseed Roll. Half a pound of flour, two ounces of powdered sugar, two ounces of warmed butter, a few anise-seeds, and a.tahlespoon- ful of yeast stirred into half a teacup of warm milk, enough of which must be added to form a soft dough. Beat it thoroughly; mould it into a long roll. Put it on a tin and set it near the flare to rise. Bake in a moderate oven, and brush it over with egg and sugar while warm. 907. “ Kiimmel Brod ”— Caraxcay Roll. The same as the previous recipe, substituting caraway for anise seeds. 908. “ Citronen Brod ”•—Lemon Rolls. Also the same mixture ns that of the two former, leaving out the anise and using the grated peel of a lemon, a few strips of peel fluely cut, and adding two well-beaten eggs. Form small long rolls. Let them rise on the tin before baking, and strew with sifted sugar when done. 909. “ Ztviehnek ”— Rusks. A pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, half a pint of milk, and two table- spoonfuls of good yeast.