GEEJ.IAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 34 and cool without removing. Then take them carefully out, place them in a jar, and pour the marinade over them. They are ready for use at once. 118. “ Aal in Aspic ”— Eels in Jelly. Skin, and cut the eels in two-inch lengths, and wash them in salted water. Lay them in a stew-pan, with two or three sage-leaves, two or three sprigs of parsley, a couple of small bay-leaves or one larger, a small clove of garlic or a shalot, as approved, salt, pepper, a little white wine, a tablespoonful of vinegar, and just enough water to keep them from drjdng. Cover closely, and let them cook slowly in their own steam till quite tender. Let them remain, covered, in the stew- pan till quite cold; then part them carefuUy. Put a little nice fish or meat jelly in a mould. Lay in the eels length- ways. Fill up with more of the dissolved jelly; and turn out when quite set. 119. “ Austern in Coquillen Schalen” — Oysters in Scollop Shells. Put oysters and their liquid in a stew-pan, over a gentle fire to become hot. Add some lemon-juice, and let them stand a few minutes ; then drain the oysters and take off their beards. Eeturn the oyster gravy to the stew-pan. Add a little meat gravy or cream, and a little white wine. Thicken the sauce with flour and butter; season with salt, white or cayenne pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Stir until it boils. It must be very thick. Put in the oysters, and with them the yolks of two or three eggs. Fill scollop shells ; strew grated bread and Parmesan cheese over them; sprinkle some oiled butter on them; and give them a delicate colour in the hot oven or before the fire. 120. “ Austern im Ticycl ”— Oysters in the Pan. Any approved herbs, and an onion, must be minced fine and cooked soft, in a quarter of a pound of “ krebs,” or “ sardcllen butter” (see Index). Two dozen of oysters, freshly opened, must bo added and stirred in with their liquor, a cup of cream, salt, and pepper. Strew bread-crumbs plentifully over, and put the dish in a quick oven, or before the fire, long enough to cook the oysters, and tinge the crumbs a pale brown. Serve in the baking-dish.