GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 326 1150. “ Blut Wiirste "— Black Sausages. tho blood is ■warm at killing-time, stir some salt into it, strain it, and keep stirring till cold, to keep it in a liquid state. Boil any pieces of the fresh pork in very little water, with salt in it, and with it a fair proportion of solid fat, either of the fresh pork or bacon. Cut these into very small dice, and stir them into the blood. Season wth salt, pepper, all- spice, and very little powdered cloves, three or four of the latter ground with the pepper. Mix all thoroughly. Fill in well-prepared skins, leaving a little space between the tying to allow for expanding. Boil them half an hour. ^Mien cold, smoke them a day or two, or hang them in a cool, dry place without smoking. To be eaten cold. 1151. Blut Wiirste”—Black Sausages. (Xo. 2.) Cut up small two or three onions and a small clove of garlic. Put them in a stew-pan with a little butter, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a spoonful of water. Cover and let them stew tender. Mash them to a fine pulp and mix them with the blood, which must have been stirred as it was caught, and mixed with a fourth part as much milk. Cut fat pork into little dice and mix it in. Season vdth salt, pepper, grated ginger, and a little finely powdered marjoram or sage. Fill the skins nearly full, set them on the fire in lukewarm water, and simmer them a good half hour. Hang them in a dry place. Soak in warm water before cooking, and fry them in butter. 1152. “ Griitz Wiirste ”— Barley Sausages. Boil two quarts of barley groats, in just sufiicient water, till quite plumped, soft, and thick. Cut up a pound of hog’s leaf, or inner fat, in small pieces, and render it down in a saucepan till the fat runs clear. Having strained the groats, pour the fat over them; put a good-sized onion, finely chopped, into the remains of the fat, which must form merely little yellow pellets; stir them together, add a spoonful of salt, and when steamed tender, add them to the barley. Season with salt, pepper, allspice, and a spoonful of marjoram, dried, rubbed fine, and sifted. Mix all thoroughly together. Strain in enough newly caught blood to make the mass red and con- siderably thinner. The pig’s lights may be boiled and added.