146 GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 529. “ Lerchen”—Larks. Larks, field-fares, or wheatears, do not require to be drawn, but are dressed as quails. Only the bead and gizzard are left when eaten. Brown them quickly in butter in a stew- pan, with a few juniper-berries, salt, and pepper; cover close, and steam them tender, adding a little water. 530. “ Wilde Enten ”— Wild Ducks. Lay them two or three days in a marinade of half a cup of vinegar, a bay-leaf, a few juniper-berries, a little garlic or onion sliced, black pepper, and three bruised cloves. Lard them for roasting. Baste frequently with butter. Put the marinade in the baking-dish, with a little water for sauce. Add salt, skim off the fat, and garnish with lemon slices. The above portions for marinade are for one duck. 531. “ Oebratener Hose ”—Roast Hare. Lay the hare two or three days in the following marinade : a quarter of a pint of vinegar, a sliced onion, two bay-leaves, twenty juniper-berries, and some black pepper. Turn and baste the hare in this twice a day. When it is to be cooked, truss and lard it. Lay it in an earthen baking-dish, sprinkle it with salt and pepper. Pour the maiinade over and put it in the oven. As soon as it is warm, put some butter on it, with which keep it well basted for an hour and a half, but, if a small hare, one hour will do it. Half an hour before it is done, pour over it a cup of sour cream, or new milk, for basting. Squeeze the juice of half a lemon over it when dished. Garnish with slices of lemon. Fine rabbits are excellent dressed the same waj*. 532. “ Hase auj Jdrjerart ”— Hare, Hunter's xray. Lay the hare in an iron saucepan, with plent}" of butter, the liver cut in pieces, three or four whole onions, salt, and pepper. Let it brown well, then pour in now and then a little water, and lot it steam, well covered, for two hours. 533. “ Hasen rfejfcr ”— Hare Pepper. Do not -wash the hare. Wipe the outside. Cut the legs OS’, and divide the back into four pieces on a dish, in which save the blood. Pour half a pint of red wine over it, cover