GERISIAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 240 when done. During the baking, thoroughly beat the yolks of eight eggs and whites of two ; stir in a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, the grated peel of three oranges and their juice. Stir this with a wire whisk over the fire till it thickens; then take it from the fire. When the cake and cream are both partly cooled, mix into the cream the whites of four eggs whisked to a stitf snow, with a tablespoonful of sifted sugar. Spread the cream over the cake ; the former must have boiled to the thickness of jam. Peel and divide an orange into its separate half-moons, without breaking their skins. When the torte is cold, lay these on its centre in the form of a star or other device, and sift sugar over them. 848. “ Ajyfelsinen Torte ”— Orange Cake. (Wo. 2.) Bake the same form of cake, of an ordinary tart paste. Make a cream as above, with three weU-beaten eggs, three oranges, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. The whites of three eggs whipped to a snow may be added, as above, or dispensed with. Finish and ornament vuth orange shces ^s above. 849. “ Wiener Torte”—Vienna Cake. Make four or five white paper plates by stretching the paper over any round utensil—a large dinner or soup-plate will do—plait up an edge an inch deep, and tack it round with needle and thread to keep it upright. Butter these papers, and lay them on baking-tins. Spread over each a layer of “ sand torte ” mixture, not thicker than a thin pancake. Bake them in a moderate oven a nice yellow ; do not let them tinge brown. When cold, cut away the paper round, turn the cakes over, and peel ofl' the bottom paper without breaking them. Lay one cake over the other, with different coloured preserves and marmalade between, till all are piled up. Dissolve powdered sugar with a little lemon- juice ; spread it thickly over the top and sides of the cake to make a glazing. Put it in a cool oven to dry, and when cold, ornament the top with preserved fruit or marmalade. 850. “iriencr 2'ortr”—Vienna Cake. (A"o. 2.) Stir half a pound of butter to a cream. Stir in, by degrees, half a pound of sifted sugar, two ounces of pounded