GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY, ig8 711. “ Meld Nockerl ”— Flour Nocheii. Beat to a cream two ounces of butter, add the yolks of four eggs, then the whites whisked to a snow. Stir in flour enough to form a very thin dough or thickest batter, sprinkle in a little salt, spread the mass a good half-inch thick on a dish, and set it in a cool place for half an hour. A few minutes before serving, dip a tablespoon in the boiling soup, and cutout with it little oval-shaped nockerl, which will mostly be pointed at the ends. Lay them in the soup. IMien they rise to the top they should be larger, but retain their shape. They are now done, and must be dished at once. 712. “ Milch Nockerl.” Proceed as directed in the last recipe, laying the nockerl in hoiling milk. While they are boiling, put a piece of butter in a stew-pan with a large tablespoonful of powdered sugar. "V^Tien these are dissolved and the pan quite hot, lay in the nockerl with a perforated ladle, and leave them undisturbed to brown at the bottom and sides. Strew sugar over when serving them. Some of the milk they were boiled in can be converted into sauce by mixing in the yolk of an egg or two, with sugar, and a little nutmeg or powdered cinnamon. 713. “ Ein Eamaquin ”—A Eamakin or Cheese Pudding. Grate six ounces of good cheese on a coarse grater; dredge among it a tahlespoonful of flour ; add cream or milk enough to moisten the cheese, then stir in three eggs and a cup of milk; there must be enough of the milk and eggs to make a thin batter when mixed with the cheese. Butter a small dish which the cheese &c., Avill about half fill. Slice a little butter over and bake in a quick oven. When the pudding is a rich yellow and has risen in the dish it is done. Ten to fifteen minutes is enough to allow for baking. Serve it directly. 714. “ Anne Hitter ”— 7\)or Knights. Cut small rolls into slices. Lay them on a dish. Beat an egg with a little milk and sugar. Pour over the slices, by degrees, enough to soak them. Give them a coaling of egg and bread-crumbs. Fry them on both sides a nice yellow colour or pale brown. Strew sugar and powdered