GERMAN NATIONAL COOKERY. 58 not be minced on wood, because it absorbs the juices and flavours. Strain the water from the boiled shells, and wth this liquor put two ounces of butter mixed with a dessert- spoonful of flour. Stir the same till it boUs. Add salt, cayenne pepper, a little mace or nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon. Mix the yolk of an egg with the minced meat. Stir this well into the sauce, and make it quite hot, but do not boil it again. 216. “ Gamelen Sauce”—Prawn or Shrimp Sauce. Prawn or shrimp sauce may be made as directed above for crayfish. Pinse the fish in cold water before picking. Put the heads and other pickings in a stew-pan with as much hot water as you want for sauce. Boil them two or three minutes, then strain and let the liquor settle. Chop or pound part of the fish, put the rest in whole, proceeding in all else as above. 217. “ Holstein Sauce” for Boiled Fish — Holstein Sauce. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in a saucepan; stir into it a tablespoonful of flour, then a cup of the water in which the fish was boiled, and one-third as much white wine. Stir the sauce until it boils. If too thick, add more fish water. Season it with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Have the yolk of an egg in the tureen, and the juice of a lemon. Stir the boiling sauce into this, and put in a walnut-sized piece of butter, which may oil on the top. 218. “ Sardellen Sauce”—Sardine Sauce. Take the bones out of six or eight sardines. Prepare a butter-sauce, with broth or water, of the usual thickness. Boil in this the bones of the sardines, a finely minced shalot, a bay-leaf, some pepper, nutmeg or mace, and a little lemon- juice. IVhen the flavours are drawn, strain the sauce, and add to it the fish chopped small. “ Sardine Butter,” as directed under this heading, furnishes a fish sauce at the moment, both good and useful. 219. ‘Hyiimmel Sauce”—Caraira;/ Sauce. Make a plain melted butter sauce, rather thick. Put into it a teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, and a little sugar. Add vinegar or lemon-juice enough to give an agreeable acid.