PUDDINGS. 215 Instead of vanilla, eight bitter almonds, blanched and pounded, may be used. 779. “ Kastanien Pudding ”— Chestnut Pudding. [No, 2.) Prepare chestnuts as directed in the last recipe, and pound quite smooth two pounds of them ; or bruise and rub them through a coarse wire sieve. Put half a pint of milk in a stew-pan to simmer with vanilla till nicely flavoured, then put in the chestnuts and six ounces of powdered sugar, and keep stirring till the chestnuts are as dry as well-boiled potatoes. Serve them either in a raised ring with whipped cream inside, or in a high rock with preserved fruit or rasp- berry syrup round. 780. “ Baden Baden Pudding ”— Baden Baden Pudding. Boil a quarter of a pound of rice in milk to a smooth mash, and with it an inch of vanilla to flavour. Soak half an ounce of gelatine in cold water a few minutes, then add it to the rice to boil. Whip a pint of cream, with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, to a froth. When the rice is cooled to lukewarm stir it briskly into the cream. Wet a mould, fill it with the mass, and set it in a cold place, or in ice. Turn it out when firm. 781. “ Aepfel Pudding ”—-Apple Pudding, Cold. Peel and slice eight or ton good-sized apples, and put them in an earthen or enamelled stew-pan, with a glass of wine, the peel of half a lemon, and four ounces of sugar. Cover, and let the apples stew soft in their own steam, stirring occasionally that they may not burn. Soak an ounce of gelatine in cold water, and let it simmer with the apples till dissolved, then pass the whole through a sieve. When nearly cold, taste if it be sweet enough. Stir in the whites of four eggs whisked to a stiflf snow. Dip a mould in water, fill it, and when cold and firm turn it out. The apples, when mashed, should measure a basinful; their kernels should be stewed with them, before straining. 782. “ Rum Pudding ”— Rum Pudding, Two eggs, four yolks, and five ounces of sugar must be well beaten. Add the grated peel of a lemon, a little nut- meg, and three ounces of bread-crumbs moistened with rum ;