CLYSTEES 107 Hippocrates (ii. 276) mentions inflation of the rectum with air by an enema in cases of ileus. A bladder is to be attached to a tube and the air injected with this. It is then to be removed and a clyster injected. In the excavations of the Roman Hospital at Baden there was found the tube of a clyster in bronze. It is cast in one piece of stout bronze (PL XXXVIII, fig. 2). Vaginal and Intrauterine Clysters. Greek, juryrpeyx^rrys. It is difficult to separate ancient descriptions of injections into the vagina from those into the uterus, for the terms for the two parts are frequently interchangeable. It is undoubted, however, that actual intrauterine injections were made. Hippocrates (iii. 17) says : ' The end of the enema (i. e. the tube) is smooth like a sound. The tube is of silver. A perforation will be made in the side not far from the small tip of the tube (fca0€r?}p). There will also be other perforations, which will be placed at equal distances on each side of the tube throughout its length. The extremity of the injection tube will be solid, all the rest hollow. To the tube will be attached the bladder of a sow, which has first been well scraped. Place the milk of a mare in the bladder, having taken the pre- caution to close the perforations in the tube with a linen rag. The bladder is then closed with a cord and given to the woman herself, and she, when the cord shutting off the bladder has been removed, puts it inside the uterus. For she herself will know where it ought to be placed. Then you press the bladder with your hand as long as pus escapes.' The description quoted already from Heister will help to make clear the description of the manipulation. There is in the Naples Museum (No. 7 8,235) an injection tube of bronze answering to the description given. It is 13 cm. long, and it has at the end a small opening, while on the side, not far from the tip, eight small holes are arranged in two superposed rings (PL XXXVIII, fig. 1). There is a similar but slightly smaller instrument in the same museum.