55 PEOBES Paul (VI. ix) says that in the cases of entropion, where the ordinary plastic operation is objected to, an elliptical piece may be burnt out of the eyelid with caustic applied on the nucleus of a probe (TTvprjvoo-fjLrjKr]^, and similarly after removal of sebaceous cysts from the lid, levigated salts may be applied on the nucleus (top TTvpijva tt]s p.rj\rjs). Aetius (II. iv. 23), quoting from Gralen, says that in caries of the teeth some wax may be warmed on the nucleus of a probe (irvprjvos /xrjA?]?), and again (II. iv. 14) he directs us to use it for application of pomade to the face (irvprjvi fir/kris). It would seem that this, and not the exploration of wounds, was the original use to which the olivary-pointed probe was put, for in early Egyptian tombs small pestle-like probes are, as a rule, found accompanying the toilet pigment boxes which are so common. They are mostly made of wood (PI. X, fig. 2). The kohl-stick was not unknown to Greek ladies. (See Eustathius, Comment, in Iliad.) Hitherto I have spoken of the probe as if it were a single instrument; but, as a matter of fact, the ends of the shaft are usually fashioned to serve different purposes. Thus at one end there will be a probe, at the other a spatula, a spoon, or a hook. Some of these combinations have names of their own, and others are so frequently met with that they too seem to have been constant types. It may simplify matters if we anticipate a little and remark that while the uses of the probes in actual surgery were the same as at the present day, in the minor surgery, consisting of the application of medicaments and toilet preparations, they were used in a slightly different manner. Semi-solids, like eyebrow pigment and eye ointments, were applied on olivary-pointed probes. Liquids, like ear and eye drops, were usually instilled by squeezing a ball of wool dipped in the liquid and placed round the middle of a probe, and letting it run off the point. Thus a common form of toilet instruments consists of a probe-like instrument with an olive at one end and a sharp stylet at the other. Ligulae with scoops were used to withdraw drops of fluid essences,