76 GEAECO-EOMAN SUEGICAL INSTRUMENTS necesse est. Turn extrema pars eius inferioribus acu assuenda est; nam nodus vulnus laedit, nisi tamen longe est (V. xxvi). The round sewing needle was therefore part of the recognized outfit of the surgeon, and numbers have been found associated with surgical instruments. Apart from this association with other instruments it is quite impossible to distinguish them from domestic needles. The same may be said of bodkins, as these too occur in surgical finds, and are also quite indistinguishable from the domestic articles for embroidering. PI. XVII, fig. 2 shows a bronze needle from Eoman London. A similar one from Pompeii, now in the Naples Museum, is given by Vulpes as a surgical needle, owing to the fact that it was found along with surgical instruments; but it is evident that it is only a needle for sewing bandages, &c. Other types of needles and bodkins are found in bronze, but many also are of bone and ivory. Even the latter are quite serviceable, and in spite of their being comparatively thick will stitch compact cloth easily. An ivory needle from Eoman London is shown in PL XVII, fig. 5. Eyed Probes. "We have frequent references to eyed probes, and we also possess a considerable number of different types. In dealing with the dipyrene I quoted a passage to show that it sometimes carried an eye in one of its olives. Hippocrates refers to an eyed probe of tin. In treating of fistula he directs us to take a rod of tin having one end pierced with an eye {\xr\Xr\v Kaa-a-LTepCvqv €7r' aKpov rerp^/xsV^y), and having put one end of a twisted piece of lint through the eye put the probe into the fistula, get the end of the specillum, bend it and hold the thread with the finger and withdraw the ends. Paul quotes this passage (VI. lxxvii), but alters the wording slightly: ' Hippocrates directs us to pass a thread consisting of five pieces through the fistula by means of an eyed probe or a dipyrene ' (dta TtTprjixivov Koirapiov rj bnrvprjvov).