92 GEAECO-EOMAN SUEGICAL INSTEUMENTS form were in use in every household as accessories of the lamp for raising and snuffing the wick, and artisans used them also for the finer manipulations of their crafts ; so that hj far the largest number of forceps of this type are not surgical instruments, but household implements. However, we have plenty of specimens from purely surgical finds. Of the surgical instruments all forms agree in having no teeth. The simplest form consists of a strip of metal bent on itself straight as in PL XXVI, fig. 3, or with the jaws turned inwards, as in PI. XXVI, fig. 5. These are often pocket forceps. A1 pocket-companionconsisting of a toilet forceps, an ear-pick and a nail-cleaner, such as is seen in PI. XXVI, fig. 4, is a common object in museums, such as the Guildhall Museum, where this object is. A variety of epilation forceps with rounded legs is seen in PI. XXVI, fig. 2. Several of these have been obtained from purely surgical finds. Others are formed by sawing a bar of bronze up its centre, as in the specimen shown in PI. XXVI, fig. 1, which is 13 cm. 4 mm. long, and with jaws 10 mm. broad. It is from the Naples Museum. This is the form most typical of the surgical epilation forceps. Several of this type were found in the grave of the oculist Gaius F. Severus at Eheims (PI. XXVI, fig. 6). They are very large powerful instruments, from 15 to 16 cm. long, and with jaws 7 to 8 mm. in breadth (Deneffe, Oc. du 3e siecle, ii. 1-8). This form was no doubt used as a dissecting forceps or tumour vulsellum as well as for epilation, but the typical tumour forceps was toothed, and it is convenient to classify all those of the untoothed type as epilation forceps. Other epilation forceps, which are however more likely to be toilet articles, have the jaws of extreme breadth, as in PI. XXVII, fig. 3 from the Mainz Museum. It has a sliding catch. They are evidently intended to remove a consider- able number of hairs at once, or to fix them while they were cut with razor or shears. It is certain, however, that in addition to these broader