BONE AND TOOTH INSTEUMENTS 141 was separated is called by Paul v7iw7ra0ioT7//o. The operation is mentioned by Epiphanius, a bishop of Alexandria in the fourth century, by whom the instrument is referred to as <rna6i(TTr}p. Impellent. Greek, dicoor??/). In his chapter on the extraction of weapons, one of the most remarkable chapters in the whole of his works, Paul mentions an impellent for forcing an arrow head through a part so as to extract it at the side opposite to that by which it went in. ' If the head of the weapon has passed to the other side and it is found impossible to extract it by the way it entered, having divided the parts opposite we extract it through the middle of them, either extracting it in the manner spoken of (i. e. with forceps), or we make an opening by means of the weapon itself, pushing it by the shaft, or, if that has come away, by an impellent instrument (buDaTrjpos), taking care not to divide a nerve, artery, vein, or any important part; for it would be malpractice if, in extracting the weapon, we should do more mischief than the weapon itself had done. If the weapon has a tang, which is ascertained by examination with the probe, having introduced the female part of the impellent instrument and engaged it, we push the weapon forwards, or, if it has a socket, the male part' (tt\v 6ri\eiav tov hiGXTTrjpos kci6£vt€s kcu zvapixocravTzs oyd^o-ofxev to /3eAos et be avkbv tov appeva). Impellents formed an important part of the armamen- tarium of the surgeon, at least down to the time of Scultetus, and in his works and in those of Albucasis and Pare there are numerous figures of these instruments. None of these quite agree with the idea of the instrument which one gathers from Paul's description. It would seem to have been a very simple affair, probably a plain rod of metal pointed at one end and hollowed at the other, the pointed end being intro- duced into the socket of an arrow where it possessed one, the hollow end being fitted over the tip of the tang in cases where the arrow was tanged.