36 GRAECO-ROMAN SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS Roman times. It is not unlikely that the method is referred to by Antyllus in the passage beginning—irore fxev Kara-ireIpov- res 7tot€ 8e avaireipovres fyXzfioTovixzv (Oribasius, Collect. VII. x). This passage describing the technique of phlebotomy has given rise to great and voluminous discussion (see Darem- berg's Oribas. vol. ii. p. 776) from the fact that Antyllus goes on to state that we operate KaraireCpovTes—cutting inwards—in cases where the vessels are deep, and ava-ndpovTts—cutting outwards—where the vessels are superficial, and the advice has seemed to most commentators to be the reverse of what one would expect. The explanation seems to me to be simple. Superficial vessels are those which could be seen standing out on applying the fillet, and were to be divided by the method in vogue at the present day by transfixing the vessel through its middle and bringing the lancet outwards. The reason of this is that the danger of injuring important structures lying deep to the vein was well under- stood by the ancients. Thus Galen warns against wound- ing the nerve in phlebotomy of the median, the tendon of the biceps in phlebotomy of the scapulo-cephalic, the artery in dividing the basilic, and so on. But in opening deep- lying veins the method of transfixing was inapplicable, and the bone was cut boldly down upon till the issue of blood showed that the vein was opened. The deep vessels which were divided were those about the scalp, and as they had no important relations they were divided by cutting through everything overlying the bone, often with razor-shaped knives. Thus Paulus Aegineta (VI. vii) says: ' When many deep vessels send a copious defluxion to the eyes we have recourse to the operation called Periscyphismus.' This consisted in making a transverse incision down to the bone over the vertex from one temple to the other. The 'Katias.' Kands -lahos (f)) (Soranus, II. xviii); KaOias (Paul, VI. lxxiv); Kanahiov (to) (Aetius, II. iii. 2) ; Karziahiov (to) (Aretaeus, Cur. Morb. Diut. i. 2).