152 GBAECO-ROMAN SUBGICAL INSTEUMENTS 0-09 m. The whole instrument is 0-23 m. long. Another instrument on a similar principle but with a quadrivalve priapiscus was discovered in 1882 (PI. XLIX). It is 0-315 m. long. It is now fixed by oxidation, so that the blades cannot be moved. On turning the screw the lower blades could be drawn downwards, at the same time separating slightly, while the upper blades diverged also (No. 113,264 Naples Mus.). Lately a third, similar to that shown in PI. XLVII, has been found in Pompeii. Note that the screw in the three-bladed instrument is a left-handed one. That in the four-bladed instrument is right-handed. This causes right-handed motion to open the instrument in either case. There is, however, an instrument similar to these trivalve instruments in the museum at Athens. It differs in having the screw right-handed (PL XLVIII). Mr. Bosan- quet, late of the British Institute of Archaeology at Athens, was kind enough to procure me a photograph of this instrument, but he tells me that there is no satisfactory account of its provenance and its authenticity is doubtful. It seems possible that it is a copy of one of the Naples specimens by some one who has omitted to observe that the screw in these is left-handed. Traction Hook for Embryo. Greek, ZfxfipvovkKos; Latin, uncus. Celsus has an interesting chapter on the removal of the foetus in difficult labour. He says (VII. xxix): Turn, si caput proximum est, demitti debet uncus undi- que laevis, acuminis brevis, qui vel oculo, vel auri, vel ori, in- terdum etiam fronti recte iniicitur; deinde attractus infan- tem educit. Neque tamen quolibet is tempore extrahi debet. Nam, si compresso vulvae ore id tentatum est, non emittente eo, infans abrumpitur, et unci acumen in ipsum os vulvae delabitur; sequiturque nervorum distentio, et ingens peri- culum mortis. Igitur, compressa vulva, conquiescere; hiante, leniter trahere oportet; et per has occasiones paula- tim eum educere. Trahere autem dextra manus uncum; sinistra intus posita infantem ipsum, simulque dirigere eum debet.