12 GBAECO-BOMAN SUBGICAL INSTBUMENTS ores of a very low quality. The greater part of the so-called steel of which battleships are made is got from a ferruginous mud with only 30 per cent, of iron, less than there was left in the scoria after the Boman founder had done with it. To the impurities already existing in this we add others, because the coal we use contains sulphur. It is getting rid of these impurities that makes the production of steel such a roundabout process with us. We forget that, with primitive methods but fine ores and a fuel devoid of sul- phur, the production of steel of fine quality is as easy a process as the manufacture of iron, in fact the only difference between the method of procuring iron and steel under these circumstances is the length of time the process is allowed to go on. The ancient founders used the finest ores, often containing 75 per cent, of iron, and, working with charcoal fuel, which was nearly pure carbon, they could produce steel as easily as iron. The differ- ence between steel and iron is that steel contains carbon, and, by allowing the ore to remain longer in contact with the charcoal, steel is formed, so that a founder setting out to make iron with a pure ore and a pure fuel like charcoal, may, if he is not careful, turn out steel of fine quality. This primitive method of making steel is still in vogue in India, Burma, Borneo, China, &c, and very fine qualities of steel are produced. The majority of the tools found in the earliest Greek colonies on the Nile—Naukratis and Daphnae—are of steel or iron, although those of the Egyptians among whom they were living (circa 600 b. c.) were of bronze. The classical medical writings themselves are sufficient evidence of the quality of the steel available in those times. Galen (ii. 683) says that the best quality of steel (which came from Norica) yielded a knife which neither blunted easily nor bent or chipped. 'E/C (TlbripoV be €(TTCO TOVTO TOV KaWCaTOV, ol6v 7T€p TO N(DpiKOV eortv, tva \xriT a(x{3\vvriTaL ra)(e&)y, \xr\T avaKafXTTTr}TaL rj Opavrjrai. This shows that the Greek surgeon appreciated good steel, and what I have said will show that there was plenty of it