KNIVES D 2 all, and it is still more doubtful whether Vulpes is justified in postulating a special instrument for doing so, and as this instrument is of phlebotome shape it is more likely to have been a phlebotome than anything else. It is of bronze, 8 cm. long and 9 mm. in the broadest part of the blade. The handle is neatly decorated with raised ring ornamentation. The following account of the discovery of a phlebotome in excavating some graves along the line of the old Watling Street Eoad, in the neighbourhood of Wroxeter, is given by C. Eoach Smith in the Gentleman s Magazine (1862, pt. ii. p. 677): 'Several sepulchral interments have been met with of a character similar to those usually found in Soman cemeteries. In some of them objects of particular interest were found, with urns and other earthen vessels; as, for instance, the fragments of a circular mirror in the bright, shining, mixed metal commonly known as 'speculum' metal; and what appears to be a surgeon's lancet, contrived in a very ingenious manner. The point for penetrating the flesh is of steel, not unlike that in use at the present day. It is surmounted by a guard to hinder it from cutting too deeply, and above this is a handle, which is bow-shaped, and of bronze.' J. Corbet Anderson, in The Roman City at Wroxeter, p. 92, says it was embedded in the remains of a case in which it had been carried, and he gives an illustration of it (PI. VII, fig. 5). A similar object is classified as a surgical instrument in the Louvre, but both these articles are I believe detached mirror handles. The passage quoted from Hippocrates shows that the ordinary phlebotome was not guarded in this way. A phlebotome of the principle of the fleam is figured by Albucasis and the method of using it in dividing the frontal vein by striking it with a comb is described. There is also a similar instrument in the Naples Museum, from Pompeii, which is classed as a veterinary instrument (PL VIII, fig. 3). It is probable, however, that such an instrument was used by Eoman physicians, as the offices of surgeon and veterinarian were often held by the same individual in