GYNAECOLOGICAL INSTRUMENTS, ETC. 149 Si quando autem is maior non videtur nisi rupta cervice extrahi posse, findendus est; cuius repertor Ammonius ob id Ai^ord/xo? cognominatus est. Id hoc modo fit: uncus iniicitur calculo sic ut facile eum concussum quoque teneat, ne is retro revolvatur; turn ferramentum adhibetur crassi- tudinis modicae, prima parte tenui, sed retusa, quod admotum calculo, et ex altera parte ictum, eum findit. {If at any time it seems too large and impossible to be extracted without splitting the cervix, it is to be split, The originator of this is Ammonius, hence called the lithotomist. It is performed in this manner. A scoop is put over the calculus in such a way that it easily holds it even when struck from sliding back; then there is applied an instru- ment of moderate thickness, slender at the tip, but blunt, which being placed against the calculus and struck on the other end splits it' (VII. xxvi). The above paragraph really gives us all the information we possess about the instrument. It is evidently a slender chisel. A passage in Aretaeus [Morb. Citron, ii. 9) is held by some to refer to lithotripsy (digital). The reading, how- ever, is dubious. Rectal Speculum. Greek, tbpobiaaToktvs, ixiKpbv hio-nrpiov, KaroTTrrjp. The earliest mention of the rectal speculum is to be found in the treatise on fistula by Hippocrates : "Ttttlov KaraKkivas tov avdpu)TTOV KaTouTrjpL KCLTibuv to biafit- fipGafJievov tov apxov. ' Laying the patient on his back and examining the ulcera- ted part of the bowel by means of the rectal speculum' (iii. 331). Again, a little further on, he mentions its use in the treatment of piles ; and Paul (VI. lxxviii) says: ' With regard to blind fistulae Leonidas says : " We dilate the anus, as we do the female vagina, with the anal or small speculum " ' (tw tbpobiCKTToXtL (r<L /x6/c/)(p btoTTTpLy Aeyco) diaoretAcu tt]V ebpav o)S yvvaLKtlov koKtiov). There is a rectal speculum in the Naples Museum (No. 78,031). It is a two-bladed instrument, working with a hinge