62 GRAECO-ROMAN SUEGICAL INSTRUMENTS XV. PL XV, fig. 4 shows a very coarse, thick specimen. The scope of the cyathiscomele in medical art is evidently like the flat spathomele to act occasionally as a sound, but mainly to mix, measure, and apply medicaments. Some are adapted for use as curettes. But the large number in which this instrument occurs would of itself indicate that it was used for lay as well as medical purposes. Many are toilet articles. An interesting discovery of two typical specimens in the grave of a lady artist was made in Vendee in 1847. Among a number of colour pots and alabaster mortars for rubbing down and mixing colours was an etui similar to the typical cylindrical instrument case of the ancient surgeon, and in this were two spoon probes like the one shown in PL XIV, fig. 1. Evidently they were favourite instruments of the painter, and had been used by her for mixing and preparing her colours.1 The form of cyathiscomele, in which the two lateral halves of the scoop meet at an angle (PL XIV, fig. 1), has a tendency to split along the ridge in the middle of the scoop if roughly handled. One of these, to which this accident has happened, is in the Naples Museum (PL XV, fig. 3) and has an interesting history. In 1847 Vulpes described it as a guard for dividing the fraenum linguae, and successive writers have copied this ever since, and it is so described in the catalogue. As the photograph shows, it is only a spoon probe which had been trod on or otherwise damaged, and which had split down the centre, or rather near the centre, for the crack has deviated at its termination from the midline. The termination of the notch thus formed has quite a differ- ent appearance from the figure by Vulpes. The accident is not an uncommon one. There is in the Capitoline Museum an instrument to which precisely the same has happened, and I have a probe in my own possession which has split, and which with a little manipulation would make a beauti- ful duplicate of the one in the Naples Museum (PL XV, fig. 1 Blumner, Technologie und Terminologie der Gewerbe und Kunste bei Griechen und R'6me?'n, vol. iii. p. 458.