102 G RAECO-ROM AN SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS material but of any other substance. If other things are not to be had a small cup or a narrow mouthed jar will answer the purpose. When it has fastened on, if the skin has previously been cut with a scalpel it extracts blood; but if it be entire, air.' Paul says: 'When we are about to apply the empty instrument, having placed the limb in an erect position, we fasten it to the side, for if we apply the light above when lying down, the wick falling upon the skin with the flame burns in a painful manner, and for this there is no necessity. It is necessary that the size of the instrument be proportionate to the part to which it is applied, and on that account there is great difference of cupping-instruments with regard to the smallness and greatness of size. Moreover those which are made with longer necks and broader bellies are possessed of a strong power of attraction' (VI. xli). From Oribasius {Med. Coll. VII. xvi) we learn that some- times the lips were flat (kitfaeha ra x€^€a) and sometimes concave (o-eo-tjutco/z^a ra x€^€a)- This does not, however, mean that the border was guttered, but that the whole lip instead of lying in one plane was arched. From a passage in Aretaeus we learn that one reason for the cup being bellied out above was that there was oil floating free in the instrument, which might otherwise escape and scald the patient. Aretaeus says: 'Apply plenty of heat so as to warm the part as well as attract. The cup should be light earthenware (Kepa/ueow Kovcpov) and adapted to the side (apixo(ov rfj irXevpa), or bronze with flat lips (7rpr]vrj tcl x*&ca) so as to comprehend the parts affected with pain, and we are able to place inside it much fire with oil, so that it may keep alive for a considerable time. We must not apply the lips closely to the skin, but allow access to the air so that the fire may not be extin- guished ' (JDe Morb. Acut, i. 10). Antyllus says there are three materials of which cups are made, glass, horn, and bronze. He rejects the silver ones because they heat too readily. The bronze are the ones most commonly used. Glass is used where we wish to mark the quantity of blood extracted. Horn ones are