104 GBAECO-BOMAN SUEGICAL INSTEUMENTS to the description of Celsus. They were brought from Shetland, where they were in use until comparatively recent times. Prosper Alpinus, who visited Egypt in the sixteenth century and wrote a book on the state of medicine in that country, found these cupping-horns in use there, and he gives drawings of the instruments he saw (PI. XXXVII, fig. 1). The horns used were those of young bulls,highly polished and with a small hole at the tip, by which the air was extracted by suction. To close this a small tab of parchment was taken into the mouth, and moistened and affixed by the tongue. The Egyptians also used cupping-vessels of glass, specially shaped and worked by suction. PI. XXXVI, fig. 2 shows the shape illustrated by Prosper Alpinus. The method of using fire with cups was not known to the Egyptians at the time when Alpinus wrote (De Med. Aegyptiorum, ed. 1541, lib. ii. ch. xii. p. 139). Horn cups worked by suction are spoken of in the Hindoo Vedas. It is interesting to find that these horn cupping-vessels are still in use in some parts of Africa, and one, the property of a Hausa barber-surgeon, was presented to the Aberdeen Anatomical Museum by Sir "William Macgregor (Proc. Aberdeen Anat. Soc. 1900-2). An interesting form of cup is described by Hero of Alexandria (b.c. 285-222). Hero's description is quite in- telligible, although it would be difficult to give an accurate translation that would be readily understood. I shall con- tent myself with summarising his account. The figure (PI. XXXVII, fig. 2) shows a cup of ordinary flattened form, divided into two by a diaphragm. Two tubes pass through the fundus, one passing through the diaphragm, the other not. Each of these tubes is fitted with another which is open at its inner end,but closed at its outer end and provided with a small crossbar to rotate it. Each of these sets of tubes is perforated by small openings. In the case of the short tube these are outside the cup, in the case of the long tube they are inside the cup, in the chamber shut off by the diaphragm. By