142 GEAECO-EOMAN SUEGICAL INSTEUMENTS Arrow Scoop. Greek, Kvadio-Kos AtoKAeios. A scoop for extracting arrow heads is thus described by Celsus (VII. v): Latum vero telum, si conditum est, ab altera parte educi non expedit, ne ingenti vulneri ipsi quoque ingens vulnus^ adiiciamus. Evellendum est ergo genere quodam ferramenti quod AiOKkeCov KvaQLanov Graeci vocant, quoniam auctorem Dioclem habet: quern inter priscos maximosque medicos fuisse iam posui. Lamina, vel ferrea vel etiam aenea, ab altero capite duos utrimque deorsum con versos uncos habet; ab altero duplicata lateribus, leviterque extrema in earn par- tem inclinata quae sinuata est, insuper ibi etiam perforata est. Haec iuxta telum transversa demittitur ; deinde ubi ad imum mucronem ventum est paulum torquetur, ut telum foramine suo excipiat; quum in cavo mucro est, duo digiti subiecti partis alterius uncis simul et ferramentum id extra- hunt et telum. ' But a broad weapon if buried should not be extracted from a counter opening, lest to one large wound we add another; therefore it is to be extracted with a special variety of instrument which the Greeks call the Scoop of Diocles, since Diocles invented it. I have already stated that he was one of the most eminent of the old practitioners. Its blade of iron, or even of bronze, has at one end two hooks, one at each side turned backwards. At the other end it is folded over at the sides, and the end is slightly curved up towards that part which is bent. Moreover in it there is a perforation. This is introduced crosswise near the weapon, then when it comes near the point it is twisted a little so that it receives the point in the hole. When the weapon is in the cavity two fingers placed under the hooks at the other end simultaneously extract both the instrument and the weapon.' This description seems very definite until we attempt to reconstruct the instrument, when it becomes evident that more than one construction may be put on some parts of it. PI. XLV, fig. 4, shows the instrument as conceived by me.