148 GBAECO-EOMAN SUBGICAL INSTEUMENTS the incision is made, without requiring extraction. But if it does not of itself start out we must extract it with the instrument called the stone extractor' (tov KlOovKkov) (VI. lx). Adams translates Kl0ov\k6$ by 'forceps for extracting stone but this is not quite a justifiable translation. The instru- ments whose names end in -ovXkos, and which are derived from e'AKco, are certainly in many instances forceps, e.g. (3€\ov\k6s, a forceps for extracting weapons, but in other cases they are as certainly not. I need only refer to tyPpvoyXKos, which is conclusively described as a hook for extracting the dead foetus. Thus while it is possible that the \l6ov\k6s may have been a forceps, the etymology of the word does not entitle us to translate by any term more definite than 'stone extractor'. Galen (xiv. 787) uses the word Ai0o\a(3os, which has a more definite meaning. The majority of words compounded of -kdfios means some variety of forceps, e. g. crapKokdfios, tumour vulsellum. The etymo- logical evidence thus leaves the matter open, with a slight balance in favour of there having been a forceps. I should have had no hesitation in translating ki6o\a(3os to mean a forceps, had it not been that Celsus evidently had no cogni- zance of a stone forceps. Galen, however, lived after Celsus, and we may note that the Arabians used such an instru- ment. Albucasis says that if the stone does not start out it must be seized with a forceps or a hook, and failing removal by these means it is to be broken up with forceps. One forceps in the Naples Museum, from the house of the phy- sician, seems to be suited for the operation (PI. XLVI, fig. 3). The handles are short in proportion to the blades, and it seems better suited to grasp some substance inside the bow than between the jaws. The unfinished condition of the tips of the handles indicates that they had been inserted into handles of wood. Lithotrite. Latin, ferr amentum. A sort of chisel by which a calculus was split is thus de- scribed by Celsus: