33 KNIVES certain parts of the body which have a swift current of blood which it is not easy to stop. Such are varices and certain other veins. Therefore, it is necessary in these to make narrow openings, for otherwise it is not possible to stop the flow. Yet it is sometimes necessary to let blood from them. But in places not dangerous, and about which the blood is not thin, we use the lancets broader (irXaTVTtpois XPwOaL tols fia\aipCois), for thus and not otherwise will the blood flow.' The phlebotome appears to have been a convenient instru- ment for all sorts of operations besides phlebotomy, especially for the opening of abscesses and the puncture of cavities containing fluid, and for fine dissecting work. Paulus Aegineta mentions its application for the excision of fistula lachrymalis (VI. xxii), the removal of warts (VI. lxxxvii), slitting the prepuce in phimosis (VI. lv), incising the tunica vaginalis in excision of hydrocele sac (VI. lxii), opening abscesses (VI. xxvii), dissection of sebaceous cysts (VI. xiv). Galen (xiv. 787) mentions its use in dissecting open an imperforate vagina. Celsus has no special word for phlebotome. He always refers to it by the general term scalpellus. Theodoras Priscianus, whose Latin takes curious forms, gives us a transliteration of the Greek term: Convenit interea prae omnibus etiam his flebotomum adhibere, convenit etiam eos ventris purgatione iuvari (Euporiston, xxi. 66). Hippocrates in the famous passage on the surgical treat- ment of empyema (ii. 258) says: ' Incise the skin between the ribs with a bellied scalpel, then let a phlebotome (dfu/3eA.ei) which has been wound round with a rag, leaving the breadth of the thumb nail at the point, be pushed in.' 'Ofu^eA^s literally means sharp-pointed. The term occurs in the Iliad, e.g. applied to an arrow (iv. 126), but Galen in his Lexicon expressly states that Hippocrates by it means the phlebotome. In his treatment of empyema Paulus Aegineta uses not the phlebotome but a sharp curved MILNE £)