20 GEAECO-EOMAN SUEGICAL INSTEUMENTS Finds of Instruments. Finds of ancient surgical instruments, though not by any means common, are still sufficiently numerous for specimens to have found their way into most of our larger museums; and private collectors have here and there acquired considerable numbers. The most prolific source has been the excavations at Herculaneum and Pompeii, which have now been systematically pursued for nearly three hundred years, while the objects found have been deposited in the National Museum at Naples. In 1818 a physician's house with a large number of surgical instruments was discovered in the Strada del Consulare of Pompeii, and two chemists' shops have also been found with instruments in them. Besides these there is a large number of instruments from other finds in the two buried cities. The custom of burying personal effects along with the ashes of a deceased person, which prevailed among the Eomans from the second to the fourth century, has preserved to us a number of interesting finds. In 1880 M. Tolouse, a civil engineer in Paris, in executing some alterations in the neighbourhood of the Avenue Choisy, discovered the grave of a surgeon, containing a bronze pot full of surgical instruments. Among these were numerous forceps and vulsella, ointment tubes, bleeding cup, scalpel handles for blades of steel, probes, and spatulae. Sixty-six coins of the reigns of Tetricus I and II showed that the grave belonged to the end of the second or the beginning of the third century. The find was reported by M. Tolouse in a volume entitled Mes fouilles dans le sol du vieux Paris (Paris, 1888). In 1892 the find was fully described by Professor DenefTe of Ghent, in the Revue Archeologique, under the title £ Notice descriptive sur une trousse de medecin au inme siecleand reprinted, with photogravures, in 1893 in a monograph Mude sur la trousse d'un chirurgien Gallo- Romain du inme siecle (Antwerp, 1893). It is con- venient to refer to this find as that of the ' Surgeon of