84 GRAECO-ROMAN SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS quae magis laniant si retrorsus quam si contra eximatur. Sed inde aperta via caro diduci debet ferramento facto ad similitudinem Graecae litterae Y; deinde, ubi apparuit mucro, si arundo inhaeret propellenda est donee ab altera parte apprehendi et extrahi possit (VII. v). Variant readings are V and A. The Aldine edition has The reading I have adopted is Daremberg's; but whichever is correct matters little, as all indicate a bifurcated instrument, except the Aldine, which would indicate a three-pronged one. There are several bifurcated specilla in the British Museum (PI. XXII). One in the Orfila Museum, Paris, of slender construction, carries a hook at the other end. It is from Herculaneum (PL XXI, fig. 1). A plain variety is shown in PL XXI, fig. 6. The specimen shown in PL XXI, fig. 3 is interesting as showing a possible fallacy. It has considerable affinity to the Roman netting-needle, and may not be a probe at all. The typical netting-needle has, however, blunt points, and the planes in which the forks lie are at right angles to each other. Blunt Dissectors. In his chapter on Angiology (or Division of the Temporal Blood Vessels) for headache and ophthalmia (VI. v). Paul mentions the use of dissectors: ' Having therefore first shaven the hairs of the temples we make an examination by palpation, applying warm fomentations or even a fillet round the neck, and mapping out the vessels with ink as they become apparent, we stretch the skin to either side with the fingers of our own left hand and those of an assistant, and make a superficial incision along the vessel. Then cutting down and retracting with hooks and exposing the vessel with dissectors (be efu/xei/«rn;- poav) we must raise it up completely isolated. If it be small, having stretched it and applied torsion we may divide it through in such a way as to remove a piece of it at one stroke.5 The typical scalpel handle ends in a leaf-shaped dissector, and Celsus always describes blunt dissection as being per- formed with the manubriolus of the scalpel. We have,