GYNAECOLOGICAL INSTEUMENTS, ETC. 145 ! size of a No. 10 English. The curve is considerably greater than that of the Naples specimen (Un Hopital Militaire i Eomain, planche ix). The female catheter in the Naples Museum is 0-98 m. long, and of the same diameter as the male one. It is straight (PL XLV, fig. 2) Bladder Sounds. Had the ancients solid bladder sounds ? They must have been well aware of the characteristic grating sensation conveyed to the skilled hand on striking a stone with a metal instrument, for we have several references in the classics to the manoeuvre of pushing back, by means of a catheter, a stone impacted in the urethra. Eufus of Ephesus (Uepl \idi<ao-r}s KtWecos) says of impacted urethral calculus : ' Those that are stuck fast push back with the catheter if you prefer not to do lithotomy' (kpdhovras ovv d w OeXots T€[iveLv a-n&aai rw av\C(TK(o). Soranus (II. xviii) says if a stone is the cause of dystocia we must push it out of the neck of the bladder into the bladder with a catheter (/caflenjp). The word Eufus uses puts it beyond doubt that a hollow tube is meant, or we might have argued that KaOeTrip did not necessarily mean a hollow tube, since Hippocrates uses it in the sense of a uterine plug (ii. 830). Yet strange to say, the sensation conveyed to the hand and ear on I striking a stone with a metal instrument is nowhere defi- nitely given as a cardinal symptom by a classical writer. Eufus describes the symptoms of vesical calculus at length and finishes with instructions for searching the bladder. The word he uses (pjWis) at first sight seems to indicate jbhat this was done with a sound, but it turns out to be ioimanual rectal examination only which he describes. The use of the sound as a staff in lithotomy, or as a dilator of i strictured urethra, was not known to the ancients, and j;hus we have no evidence from the literature that a solid bougie existed. Some instruments have come down to us, However, which seem undoubted solid bladder sounds.' MILNE t