150 GEAECO-EOMAN SUEGICAL INSTEUMENTS in the middle. It is 0-15 m. in length, and the greatest stretch of the blades is 0-07 m. It represents an instrument used to dilate the vagina as well as the rectum, and got its name ' small dilator ' in contradistinction to the other vaginal speculum, which we shall see was worked by a screw, and was called the speculum magnum. The rectal speculum was also called KaTo-nrr\py in contradistinction to the vaginal speculum which was called hio-nrpa. In Galen's Lexicon they are explained as follows: KaTonTrjpL, tw KaXovjjihco kbpobLacTToXei, axnrtp ye kclI hionrpa 6 yvvciLK&v hiaaToXevs. ' The catopter, which is called the anal dilator, in the same way as the diopter is called the female dilator.' PI. XLVI, fig. 1 shows one of two similar rectal specula from Pompeii (Naples Museum). Vaginal Speculum. Greek, hionrpa ; Latin, speculum magnum matricis (late). Soranus is the first author who makes mention of the speculum specially made for the vagina. The original Greek of this chapter of Soranus is lost, but we have a Latin translation of it preserved to us by Moschion. The heading of this chapter in Soranus, which was No. xxxiv, was Utpl hoTTTpio-ixov. I shall give part of this chapter from Moschion : Qua Disciplina Oegano aperiendae sint Mulieres. Scio me retro ad inspiciendam altitudinem mulieris fre- quentius organi mentionem fecisse quod Graecitas dioptran vocat. Et quoniam nisi insinuata fuerit disciplina quatenus hoc ipsud fieri possit, occurrente necessitate obstetrices facere non audent, idcirco placuit nobis ut etiam hoc gynaeciis adderemus, ut ex rebus huic corpori necessariis nihil dimi- sisse videamur. Itaque supinam iactans earn quae inspici habet, accipies fasciam longam et in media parte eius duobus laqueis factis, ita ut inter se cubitum unum habeant laquei illi, duabus vero manibus mulieris missis, medietatem quae interest cervici eius inducis. Deinde reliqua fasciae sub anquilas missa ad manus alligabis, ita ut patefacti pedes ventri eius cohaereant. Deinde accepto organo et uncto priapisco, quern Graeci loton dicunt, in aliquantum ad prunas