42 GEAECO-EOMAN SUEGICAL INSTEUMENTS fecit rectum, in summa parte labrosum, in ima semicircula- tum acutumque. Id receptum inter duos digitos, indicem ac medium, super pollice imposito, sic deprimebat ut simul cum carne si quid ex calculo prominebat incideret, quo consequa- batur ut semel quantum satis esset aperiret (VII. xxvi). ' Here many have used the scalpel. Meges (since it is rather weak and may cut down upon some projecting part, and while the tissues overlying that are divided it may not divide those where there is a hollow underneath, but may leave a portion which requires to be divided afterwards) made an instrument straight, with a projecting lip at the heel and rounded and cutting at the tip. This, held between the two fingers, index and middle, the thumb being placed on the top, he pushed down so as to divide not only tissues but any projecting portion of the calculus, and as a consequence at one stroke he made a sufficient opening.' Etangs in his edition of Celsus gives as his idea of the instrument described an instrument of the shape indicated in the accompanying diagram (PL VIII, fig. 6). Thus he makes the cutting edge a concave semicircle, and therefore we may dismiss his conjecture, for a cutting edge on this principle would never cut its way into the bladder in the manner described by Celsus. Daremberg (Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1847, p. 163, &c.) con- jectures an instrument which seems to me to be nearer the true interpretation (PL VIII, fig. 4). This instrument, with some modification, I would accept. The lunated handle figured by Daremberg is not strictly speaking what is meant by labrosum, and summa parte I take to refer to the back part of the blade, and not to the back part of the instrument as a whole. Rectum I take to indicate that the instru- ment was straight and not a curved bistoury. I conceive that the lithotomy knife of Meges was only a modification of the one in general use, and that in order to enable it to be held more firmly in the manner described by Celsus, Meges raised a lip on the handle at the heel of the blade, and in order to allow it to cut its way into the stone itself to some extent (which was his avowed object) he rounded