70 GEAECO-EOMAN SUEGICAL INSTEUMENTS ' Then a needle is to be applied, sharp so as to penetrate, but not too fine.' Sextus Platonicus (Med. ex Animalibus) says that cataract is depressed with a specillum. A full description of the operation is given by Paul: ' We measure off a nucleus' breadth (oa-ov TTvprivo^riX-qs) from the part called the iris and in the direction of the outer eanthus, then mark with the olivary end of the couching needle (iTvprjvi irapaKevTrjpLov) the place to be perforated. If it is in-the left eye, we work with the right hand, and vice versa. Bringing round the pointed end of the perforator, which is round at the tip (kol avao-Tpe\j/avT€s ttjv 6.Kpr\v crTpoyyvkr]v Kara to irepas vTiapyovcrav tov K^vrripiov), we push it firmly through at the part which was marked out until we come to an empty space. The depth of the perforation should be as great as the distance of the cornea from the iris. Then raising the needle to the apex of the cataract (the bronze of it is plainly visible through the transparent part of the cornea) we depress the cataract to the underlying parts. After the couching of the cataract we gently extract the needle with a rotatory movement' (VI. xxi). It will be seen from Paul's vivid description that the couching instrument consisted of a handle with a nucleus at one end, to measure off the spot at which to perforate, and a needle at the other. We saw that the outfit of the oculist Severus contained one such instrument (PI. XVI, fig. 2). The same combination is not infrequently met with. In the Museum at Aarau there are four from the station at Vindonissa. I have one in my collection which is interesting as showing a screw thread for fitting on a cover to protect the needle (PI. XVI, fig. 7). It was found in Bedfordshire. It reminds one very strongly of the couching needle figured by Pare. Other handled needles were used in eye work as cauteries. Of trichiasis Celsus says (VII. vii): Si pili nati sunt qui non debuerunt, tenuis acus ferrea ad similitudinem spathae lata in ignem coniicienda est: deinde candens, sublata palpebra sic ut eius perniciosi pili in conspectum curantis veniant, sub ipsis pilorum radicibus ab angulo immittenda est ut ea tertiam partem palpebrae