34 GEAECO-EOMAN SUEGICAL INSTEUMENTS bistoury; however, in opening the abdomen for ascites it is the phlebotome he recommends: ' We take a curved bistoury or a phlebotome and, having with the point of the instrument dissected the skin that lies over the peritoneum, we divide the peritoneum a little higher up than the first incision, and insert a tube of bronze.' All these various applications of the phlebotome are consistent with the supposition that the phlebotome was the same as that figured in the catalogues of the present day. Heister says: Spectant hue primo loco ea quae Tab. 1 sub litt. A & B (PL VII, figs. 6, 7) exhibentur, scalpellum nempe minus et maius; vulgus lancettas eadem nominant. Serviunt eadem, praesertim minora, venis incidendis, quare phlebotoma Graecis vocantur; sed et abscessibus aperiendis, imprimis maiora; ideoque Gallis etiam lancettes a Vabsces appellari consueverunt. A bronze blade of this shape is shown in PI. VII, fig. 3. It was found near Eome. The identity in shape of the abscess knife and the phlebotome holds good to-day. The best example of the phlebotome is in the Cologne Museum. It was found in the Luxemburgerstrasse along with the other contents of a surgeon's case. It is all of steel, with a square handle and blade of myrtle leaf shape (PI. VII, fig. 2). There is in the Naples Museum an instrument which is of this shape, and Vulpes (Tav.VI,fig. 1) has described it as a lancet for bleeding. The instrument, however, is formed of a blade of silver set in a handle of bronze, so that it can scarcely be regarded as a cutting instrument (see PI. XIX, fig. 2). I look upon it as an unguent spatula. There is, however, an instrument of bronze of phlebotome shape in the Naples Museum. It was found in the house of the physician in the Strada del Consulare of Pompeii, and it was described by Vulpes as an instrument for removing the eschar formed by a cautery, as it was found lying alongside a small trident-shaped cautery. It is doubt- ful whether the eschar formed by a cautery was removed at