BONE AND TOOTH INSTEUMENTS 127 a piece of the skull where the diseased portion was larger than eonld be comprehended by the modiolus of a trephine. The part to be removed was surrounded by perforations with the drill and the intervening spaces were divided with chisels or raspatories. Celsus says : At si latius vitium est quam ut illo comprehendatur, terebra res agenda est. Ea foramen fit in ipso fine vitiosi ossis atque integri ; deinde alterum non ita longe, tertium- que, donee totus is locus qui excidendus est his cavis cinctus sit. Atque ibi quoque, quatenus terebra agenda sit, scobis significat. Turn excisorius scalper ab altero fora- mine ad alterum malleolo adactus id quod inter utrumque medium est excidit; ac sic ambitus similis ei fit qui in angustiorem orbem modiolo imprimitur (VIII. iii). Paul says: ' If a weapon be lodged deep in bone of considerable thick- ness it may be bored out with drills ' (rpvirdvoLs) (VI. lxxxviii). Aretaeus (ed. Adams, p. 467) says that exposed bones are to be surrounded with perforations by means of the drill and thus reduced (reper/ow \PV 7T€plk6ttt€lv to. yvfxvd). The boring parts of drills are not unfrequently found. The most ancient illustrations known to me of drills driven by thongs are in the work by Vidus Vidius (Chirurgia e Graeco in Lat. Conversa, V. Vidio. Florent. interprete c. nonn. eiusd. commentariis. Lutec. Paris., 1544). Vidius shows three arrangements for driving these drills with thongs: the first method consists simply of a thong attached to the shaft of the drill (PL XLII, fig. 4); the second consists of a bow with the string of the bow wound once round the shaft (PI. XLII, fig. 5); and the third consists of a crosspiece with a hole in the centre of it through which the shaft passes, and having strings from the end of the crosspiece to the top of the shaft (PI. XLII, fig. 3). Primitive arrangements truly, yet all three methods of producing rotary motion are to be seen in use at the present day, and be it known that some of the most delicate boring performed by the hand of man at the present day is done with drills turned by the thong stretched across a bow.