BONE AND TOOTH INSTEUMENTS 137 be avoided wherever possible. Caelius Aurelianus says death had followed in some cases, and that in the temple of Apollo at Delos there hung a tooth forceps of lead as a reminder for operators to exert little force in tooth extraction (Pass. Tard. II. iv). Scribonius Largus (Comjp. liii) is equally pessimistic : Ad dentium dolorem quamvis plurimi dicant forcipes remedium esse, multa tamen citra hanc necessitatem scio profuisse. Celsus (VII. xii) says extraction may result in injury to the temples and eyes, and fracture or dislocation of the jaw may occur. He recommends therefore to free the tooth all round down to the socket, then to shake it repeatedly till it has been thoroughly loosened, and remove it with fingers or forceps. If the tooth be hollow, it should be plugged with lint or lead to prevent it breaking under the forceps. The tooth should be pulled out straight, lest the alveolus be broken. Stumps are to be removed with the forceps which the Greeks call pi(dypa. Paulus Aegineta (VI. xxvii) bids us scarify down to the socket and loosen the tooth gradually by shaking with a tooth extractor (dbovrdypa) and extract it. Supernumerary teeth are, if fast, to be rasped down with a !|graving tool; if loose, to be extracted with tooth forceps i|(8ia ttjs obovrdypas). There is no ancient forceps which can Iwith certainty be set down as a tooth forceps, although some have looked upon the Pompeian forceps (see p. 135) as a tooth extractor. Although its shape is not otherwise :unsuitable for this purpose its jaws are not particularly flwell adapted for seizing a tooth, as they are not hollowed linside. It may be noted that the tooth forceps was evi- dently a 'universal', as no special variety is ever mentioned jbeyond the two I have given—'tooth' and 'stump'. Whatever the shape of the Graeco-Eoman forceps was it jseems to have been a handy instrument for many different ^manipulations. Soranus (ii. 63) says that in impaction of jthe foetal cranium we may open the head and remove the tjbones with a bone forceps or a tooth forceps (dardypas rj