GYNAECOLOGICAL INSTEUMENTS, ETC. 151 calefacere (debes), deinde sine quassatione priapiscum in- icere, susum scilicet axe posito, iubere etiam ministro ut aperiendo organo axem torquere incipiat, ut paulatim partes ipsae aperiantur. Cum vero post visum organo tollere volueris, ministro iubere ut iterum axem torqueat quo organum claudi possit, ita tamen ut cum adhuc in aliquantum patet sic auferatur, ne universa clusura aliquas teneat et nocere incipiat. We have also preserved by Paul a chapter by Archigenes on abscess of the womb (VI. lxxiii), in which the different parts of the speculum are again named, and from it also we learn that there were different sizes of the instrument pro- portioned to suit different ages. The patient having been fixed in the lithotomy position in the manner described by Soranus: ' The operator is to make the examination with a speculum (hioiTTpa) proportioned to the age of the patient. The person using the speculum should measure with a probe the depth of the woman's vagina, lest the priapiscus of the speculum (rod ttjs bwiTTpas Xcdtov)being too long it should happen that the uterus be pressed on. If it be ascertained that the tube is longer than the woman's vagina, folded compresses are to be laid on the labia in order that the speculum may be laid on them. The priapiscus is to be introduced while the screw (top kox^lov) is uppermost. The speculum is to be held by the operator. The screw is to be turned by the assistant, so that the blades of the tube (t&v cfjLTTkrja-fidrcov rov Xoitov) being separated, the vagina may be expanded.' We have little difficulty in recognizing among the instru- ments found in Pompeii three of the vaginal specula re- ferred to in these passages. All are excellent specimens of the instrument maker's skill. They are in the Naples Museum. The first discovered (No. 78,030) was found in the house of the physician at Pompeii. The blades are at right angles to the instrument (PI. XLVII), and when I closed form a tube the size of the thumb. On turning the j screw a cross-bar forces the two upper blades outwards, till I sufficient dilation is got for operative purposes. The diameter of the tube at its maximum of expansion is