ORGAN OF CIRCULA TION. 508 The arrangement of the muscular fibres of this auricle differs in no respect from that of the right side. The VENTRICLES, in all warm blooded animals, constitute the bulk of the heart. They are characterized by the great thickness of their walls, and have a fluid capacity in excess of that of the auricles. The right ventricle, by the experiments of Robin, is said to contain about one-eighth more than that of the left side. It is by the powerful action of the ventricles, that blood is pro- pelled through the systemic and pulmonary vessels. The cavities of both ventricles are conoidal in form and pre- sent a triangular-shaped section. The cavity of the right ven- tricle is broader and shorter than that of the left ventricle. The inner surface of both of the ventricles present for in- spection prominent muscular ridges and papillae, called columnce carnece. These are of three distinct varieties; the first variety being attached to the wall of the heart by their entire length, the second by the two extremities only, and the third by one extremity only. From these columnae carneae, fibrous cords, called chordce tendinece arise and pass to the free border of the mitral and tri- cuspid valves, which close the two auriculo-ventricular openings. These fleshy columns, the columnae carneae, interlace in every direction, giving the internal surface of the ventricles a reticulated appearance. This arrangement evidently assists in the complete expulsion of the contents of the ventricle during its contraction. The walls of the left ventricle are thicker than those of the right ventricle. Bouillard gives from his researches, the thickness of the left ventricle as seven lines, and that of the right ventricle as two lines and a half. The muscular fibres of the ventricles are arranged in two lay- ers, a superficial and a deep set. The superficial layer is common to both ventricles. The fibres composing it arise from fibrous rings at the auriculo-ventricular orifices, and pass in a spiral di- rection from right to left, from the base to the apex of the heart. At this point they dip into the substance of the heart, and, passing to its interior, become lost in the columnae carneae, which are chiefly formed by these fibres. The deep set of fibres are circular, and invest each ventricle separately. The muscular fibres of the heart differ, in four ways, from those of voluntary muscles in their microscopical appearance and ar- rangement. They are, in the first place, stnaller in their size than ordinary muscular fibres and are granular in their structure; again they join with each other, while ordinary muscular fibres run as separate structures from their point of origin to their