ANG10LOGY. 3/0 This space is covered by the integument, the platysma mus- cle and the superficial and deep cervical fascia. It contains the following structures: ( Subclavian (3rd portion). 3 Arteries. •< Supra-scapular. (Transversalis colli. 5 Veins ... * Subclavian (occasionally). Supra-scapular. Transversalis colli. External jugular. Small vein crossing the middle of the clavicle from the cephalic vein. 3 Nerves.. Descending branches of the cervical plexus. Brachial plexus (formed by 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th cer- vical and 1st dorsal nerves). The nerve to the subclavius muscle. Glands.... Lymphatic glands. These various structures are arranged within this triangle in the following manner. The subclavian artery lies just below the level of the clavicle, curving outwards and downwards, from the buter border of the scalenus anticus muscle, to the lower border of the first rib. The level of this artery is often higher than the normal, and may, in extreme cases, reach a point one inch and a half distant from the upper border of the clavicle. Occasionally also it passes in front of, or pierces the scalenus anticus muscle, thus changing or obliterating the limits of its three portions. The subclavian vein usually lies behind the clavicle, and, for that reason, is only occasionally seen in this space. It may, how- ever, in extreme cases, reach the highest point at which the artery is ever perceived, and, in a few instances, it has been known to pass behind the scalenus anticus muscle in connection with the subclavian artery. The brachial plexus lies above the artery and in close contact with it. The supra-scapular vessels run transversely along the clavicular margin of this space, and the transversalis colli vessels, traverse its upper angle in the same direction. The external jugular vein runs vertically downwards, either close to, or tmderneath, the outer margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and terminates in the subclavian vein. The transversalis colli and supra-scapular veins often form a plexus in front of the subclavian artery.