NEUROLOGY. 464 the brain. These fibres are not to be confounded with the fibres of the spinal nerves, some of which are distributed in a totally dif- ferent manner within the substance of the cord, although some accompany the proper fibres of the columns. The fibres of the anterior columns of the spinal cord are chiefly prolonged into the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata, although they also assist to form the olivary fasciculus and the inferior peduticles of the cerebellum. The fibres of the lateral columns of the cord are prolonged into the pyramid of the medulla oblongata, and also in the fasciculi teretes and the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. The fibres of the posterior columns of the cord are prolonged into the restiform bodies of the medulla oblongata, and the fasciculi teretes. The fibres of the roots of the spinal nerves are distributed within the substance of the spinal cord as follows. Those of the ANTERIOR ROOTS pass at first horizontally till they reach the anterior horn of grey matter, where they divide into three sets which are distributed as follows: {Pass through the white commissure to the opposite side of the spinal cord. Are then distributed to the anterior and lateral columns of that side. (Ascending fibres to gray substance of same side. Descending fibres to gray substance of same side. Antero-posterior fibres to gray substance of same side. / \ , , j To antenor and lateral columns of the side of the spinal cord at (3) uuter set. -j which the nerve entered. Those of the POSTERIOR ROOTS enter at first the substantia gelatinosa of the side opposite to the peripheral distribution of the nerve, since the posterior spinal fibres decussate; and at that point they also divide into three sets, which are distributed as follows ( \ r>hV *■ j These fibres pass upwards and downwards in company with the (I) U lque se . -j proper fibres of the columns of the spinal cord. , . T . j Pass through the gray commissure of the cord to the opposite side. (2) in erna se . ^re tjien distributed to the lateral and posterior columns of that side. (To the anterior and lateral columns of that side of the spinal cord at (3) Outer set. s which the nerve entered. These fibres intermingle with those ( of the anterior roots.