279 MUSCLES OF THE ARM. ACTION OF THE MUSCLES OF THE ARM. The biceps first supinates the hand and then flexes the fore- arm ; it also renders tense the fascia of the forearm by its aponeu- rotic tendinous expansion. The brachialis anticus muscle, from its anatomical situation, forms a most important defence to the elbow joint which it covers. The brachialis a?iticus muscle also flexes the forearm, and, in cases where the forearm becomes a fixed point, this muscle and the biceps tend to flex the arm upon the forearm, as illustrated in the act of climbing. The triceps extensor cubiti is the antagonist of the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles, and is an extensor of the forearm upon the arm. It becomes therefore a powerful agent in the act of striking a blow with the hand, acting in connection with the pectoralis major and the coraco-brachialis. The triceps extensor cubiti, from its relation to the shoulder joint, forms a formidable barrier to displacement of the head of the humerus downwards or backwards. When the arm and the forearm are extended, the triceps muscle may assist the teres major and the latissimus dorsi muscles in drawing the humerus back- wards. NERVOUS SUPPLY OF THE MUSCLES OF THE ARM. The anterior group is supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The posterior group is supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve. POINTS OF SURGICAL INTEREST PERTAINING TO THE MUSCLES OF THE ARM. In those forms of fractures of the humerus, occurring imme- diately above the condyles, the muscles of the arm are agents in producing the deformity. If the fracture be oblique, from above downwards and forwards, the lower fragment is drawn upwards and backwards by the combined force of the biceps, brachialis anticus and the triceps muscles ; but if the obliquity be in the opposite direction, the displacement of the lower fragment is for- wards and upwards. In fracture of the olecranon process of the ulna, the triceps muscle produces a displacement of the fragment upwards for a distance varying from one-half an inch to two inches (provided the