432 ANGIOLOGY. The lymphatics of the thorax maybe divided into those situa- ted upon the walls of the chest and those connected with the viscera. The parietal set are arranged, as in other portions of the body, into a superficial and a deep layer of lymphatic glands and vessels; while the visceral lymphatics are connected with the lungs and bronchi, the heart, the oesophagus, and the thymus gland. The lymphatics of the upper extremity comprise a superficial and a deep layer of lymphatic vessels and a superficial and a deep layer of lymphatic glands. The superficial layer of lymphatic vessels are more numerous upon the inner than upon the outer side of the arm ; while the deep layer of vessels ac- company the larger arteries of the forearm and of the arm, and open into the glands of the axilla and the subclavian region. The lymphatic glands of the upper extremity comprise two or three small superficial glands, in the vicinity of the inner con- dyle of the humerus, and a chain of deep lymphatic glands, which are most abundant in the vicinity of the brachial, axillary, and, subclavian arteries. The lymphatics of the abdomen, like those of the chest, com- prise a parietal set and a visceral set. The parietal set are situa- ted in the hypogastric, lumbar, and epigastric regions, and accom- pany the epigastric, the circumflex iliac, and the lumbar arteries. The visceral set are connected with the following organs : I. prin- cipally with the intestine, where they number over one hundred, and are called the mesenteric glands ; 2. with the liver, where they are arranged upon its upper surface, its under surface, and in the portal canals; 3. in the stomach, where they are placed beneath the peritoneum and also in the submucous coat ; 4. in the spleen, where they form a superficial and a deep set; and 5. in the kidney, where a superficial and deep set is also present. The lymphatics of the pelvic cavity consist of glands and lym- phatic vessels. The vessels are distributed over the entire sur- faces of the various organs of the pelvis, while the glands form chains upon the external and internal iliac arteries, and are also present in large numbers upon the sacrum and in front of the lumbar vertebrae. The lymphatics of the lower extremity comprise a superficial and a deep set of vessels, and a superficial and a deep set of glands. The superficial lymphatic vessels arise from the integu- ment of the foot and terminate either in the lymphatic glands of the groin or of the popliteal space ; while the deep set of lym- phatic vessels accompany the tibial and peroneal arteries in the