534 ORGANS OF DIGESTION ing portion of the duodenum. In exceptional cases, however, it opens by a separate papilla of its own. The pancreas consists of a glandular structure, arranged as a racemose or conglomerate gland, and is similar in its appearance to the salivary glands. The arteries are derived from the splenic and the pancreatico- duodenal arteries. The veins open into the portal system, while its lymphatics open into the lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. The spleen is one of the accessory organs of digestion, and is situated in the left hypochondriac region of the abdomen, where it embraces the left extremity of the stomach. It is oval in its form, is of a dark reddish-blue color, and is connected to the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum. It presents for exami- nation two surfaces, two extremities, and two borders. The outer surface is convex, and is in relation with the dia- phragm. It corresponds with the 9th, loth and nth ribs. The inner surface is concave and, at its middle portion, it presents a vertical fissure, called the hilnm, where the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics enter. It is in relation with the stomach, the tail of the pancreas, and the diaphragm. The upper extremity is attached to the diaphragm by the sus- pensory ligament of the spleen. The lower extremity is in relation with the splenic flexure of the colon. The anterior border is thin, and presents a notch at about its centre. The posterior border is thick, and is in relation with the left kidney. The spleen is one of the ductless glands of the body, and is therefore classed with the thyroid and the thymus glands, and the supra-renal capsules. It consists of an investing serous, and a fibro-elastic coat, which enclose the proper substance of the spleen. The substance of the spleen consists of a soft, pulpy mass, of a reddish-brown color, which is contained in meshes of fibro-elas- tic tissue, derived from the elastic coat of the spleen, since that coat is prolonged into the interior of the organ as sheaths upon