575 THE UTERUS. True ligaments. Two round ligaments. Formed by the peritoneum. Two broad ligaments. Two anterior ligaments. Two posterior ligaments. The anterior ligaments connect it with the bladder The posterior ligaments connect it with the rectum. The broad ligaments extend from the sides of the organ to the sides of the pelvis, and form three folds, which enclose, respec- tively, the ovaries, the Fallopian tubes, and the round ligaments, in their order from behind forwards. The round ligaments arise at the superior angle of that organ, and, after passing in the anterior fold of the broad ligament of either side, enter the inguinal canals and terminate in the labia majora. The tubular process of the peritoneum, which accom- panies this ligament, in the inguinal canal, is called the canal of Nuck; but it seldom exists, as a distinct canal, except in the foetus. Coats. The muscular coats of the uterus are three in number and are called respectively, the outer, the middle, and the inner layers. The outer layer is the thinnest stratum of the three, and is ar- ranged as transverse fibres, which extend upon the various liga- ments of the uterus, after they reach the borders of that organ. The middle layer is a thick stratum, and consists of fibres which run in every direction. The inner layer is arranged as two cones, whose apices cor- respond to the orifices of the Fallopian tubes, and which become united in the median line of the uterus. The direction of its fibres varies, therefore, with the portion of the uterus which is ex- amined, being circular, in some localities, and transverse in other situations. The serous coat covers the anterior surface, for its upper three-fourths, the fundus, and the whole of the posterior sur- face of the organ. The mucous coat differs in its appearance in the body and in the cervix of the organ, as follows: In the Body. Is smooth. Is thin. Is firmly adherent to the uterus. Has ciliated epithelium upon it. Has utricular follicles. Has a thin secretion. In the Cervix. Is thrown into rugae. Is thick. Is loosely attached. Has squamous epithelium. Has glands of Naboth. Has a thick and viscid secretion.