TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 233 Occipital Triangle. In front, by the posterior margin of the stemo-mastoid muscle. Behind, by the trapezius muscle. Below, by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. f Splenius. The floor is formed by the J Levator anguli scapulae, following muscles: j Scalenus medius. I. Scalenus posticus. Subclavian Triangle. Abpve, by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. Below, by the clavicle. In front, by the posterior margin of the stemo-mastoid muscle. The contents and relations of these triangles will be consid- ered under the chapters descriptive of the vessels of the head and neck. SURGICAL RELATIONS OF SPECIAL MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Between the internal and external pterygoid muscles, lie the internal maxillary artery and vein ; and the dental and gustatory nerves separate the internal pterygoid muscle from the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone. Across the buccinator muscle, run the facial artery and vein ; and this muscle is perforated by Steno’s duct, which opens into the mouth opposite to the 2nd molar tooth of the upper jaw. The hypoglossal nerve passes between the fibres of the genio- hyo-glossus. The gustatory nerve crosses the upper margin of the hyo-glossus, the lingual nerve crosses its middle portion, while, beneath it, lies the lingual artery. The external carotid artery is separated from the internal car- otid artery and the jugular vein by the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo- glossus muscles, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve lies upon the outer side of the same muscle. The stemo-mastoid muscle serves as a guide to the common carotid artery, as its inner border lies in close relation to it, and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, which also lie in close relation to this large vessel, require to be drawn towards the median line of the neck in case its ligature is demanded. The scalenus anticus muscle lies immediately in front of the second portion of the subclavian artery, and the brachial plexus Anterior to the muscle but in close relation to it, lies also the phrenic nerve, and the subclavian vein. The cervical plexus of nerves lies upon the levator anguli scafr ulce and the scalenus medius muscles and is covered in by the sterno-mastoid muscle.