118 SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. bounded, above, by the public arch, behind, by the tip of the coc- cyx, and, laterally, by the tuberosities of the ischia. The lateral walls of the outlet are furthermore formed by the sacro-sciatic ligaments. The plane of this outlet corresponds to an axis drawn from a point, midway between the tuberosities of the ischia, to the middle of the base of the sacrum. The coccy-pubic (antero-pos- terior) diameter in the male sex is usually about 3J inches, while the bi-ischiatic (transverse) diameter is usually about 3J inches. Differences in Sexes. The bones of the pelvis differ, in their appearance and char- acter, in the two sexes. Thus, in the female sex, the pelvic bones are much lighter and more slender than in the male, the mus- cular impressions are less distinct, the ilia are more expanded, the pelvis is broader from side to side, and the iliac spines are more widely separated. The inlet of the pelvis in the female is much larger than in the male and is more nearly circular, since the' sacro-vertebral angle is much less prominent. The cavity is more shallow arid more capacious than in the male, and the spines of the ischium do not project so far into the pelvis. The outlet is more expanded and more dilatable, since the coc- cyx is anchylosed at a much later date. The pubic arch has a wider space, its edges are more everted and the tuberosities of the ischia are more widely separated. Points of Surgical value. The anterior superior spine of the ilium is employed as a fixed point from which measurements of the lower extremity are taken, and it is also of value in determining the relative angle of the pel- vis to the median line of the trunk, which is often a point of great diagnostic value. Pressure upon the two spines is often employed to detect the existence of fracture of the pelvic bone or of sacro- iliac disease. The spine of the pubes is a valuable guide in the diagnosis be- tween the inguinal and femoral varieties of hernia, and, since it lies directly over the external abdominal ring, it serves also as an anatomical guide to that opening. This bony prominence also lies on a line with the upper border of the trochanter major of the femur, in the erect attitude.