63 ANTERIOR REGION OF THE SKULL. capacious in proportion to the parietal. The skulls of different races of men frequently present characteristic types as was first distinctly pointed out by Camper. The size of the skull in the various nations often exhibit marked differences; thus in the Hindoo and the ancient Peruvian, the smallest skulls are discov- ered, while among the Scandinavian races and the Caffre, the most massive skulls are found. Among rude tribes various characters are often found, which serve to distinguish their skulls from those of civilized nations; among these characters may be mentioned a prominence of the temporal ridges, a greater width of the zygo- matic arches and of the anterior nares, a greater length and strength of the jaws and a projection forwards of the incisor teeth, so that both sets of teeth meet at a sharp angle instead of per- pendicularly as in cultivated nations. Irregularities of form, if such exist in the skull, are due either to mechanical causes or to a premature obliteration of certain of the sutures of the skull, known by the name of synostosis. ANTERIOR REGION OF THE SKULL. The face is bounded, above, by the nasal eminences and the upper margins of the orbit, and, below, by the prominence of the chin. On either side of the face, the malar bones and the ramus of the jaw establish its outline. The cavity of the nose is marked, anteriorly, by a heart-shaped opening in the face which is termed the opening of the anterior nares. Across the line of junction of the frontal base or the forehead and the bones of the upper jaw, can be traced a line of separation called the transverse suture of the face. It begins at the external angular process of the frontal bone and extends to the median line, at the root of the nose. It separates the frontal bone, suc- cessively, from the malar, the sphenoid, the ethmoid, the lachry- mal, the superior maxillary and the nasal bones. In the mesial line of the face, is also seen a suture which sep- arates the two nasal bones, above, and the two superior maxillary bones, below, while, even in the lower jaw, the symphysis of the chin indicates the previous existence of a foetal suture. The various points of interest pertaining to the osteology of the face have been considered in the special descriptions of the individual bones which compose it. The face as a whole is of oval form. It presents an irregular surface which is excavated by four large cavities, viz., the orbits and nasal fossae, in which are lodged two principal organs of spec- ial sense.