509 VALVES OF THE HE A FT. point of insertion, being enveloped in an investing sheath. In the third place they are, as a rule, beyond the control of the zmll} although they possess the striated appearance of voluntary mus- cle ; and finally they are destitute of sarcolemma. In each of the ventricles, two orifices are perceived; of these, the auriculo-ventricular openings, have been already con- sidered in the description of each of the auricles, the other two are termed respectively the aortic and pulmonary openings, and serve to allow of the escape of the blood, during the contraction of the ventricles, into the arteries bearing the same name as these openings. That portion of the right ventricle, which approaches the ori- fice of the pulmonary artery, is conical in shape and is called the conus arteriosus, or infundibulum. That part of the left ventricle adjoining the root of the aorta is sometimes called the aortic vestibule of Sibson. Its walls are fibrous in character, and it remains uncollapsed during systole and disastole. Valves of the Heart. The valves of the heart are four in number, and close the two auriculo-ventricular, the aortic, and pulmonary openings. The mitral valve and the tricuspid valves perform the first office, in the left and right heart respectively; while to the aortic and pulmonary valves the name “ semilunar ” is applied, from the shape of each of the three flaps, of which they are composed. The MITRAL VALVE, which closes the left auriculo-ventri- cular opening, consists of two segments or flaps, which, when closed together, prevent the regurgitation of blood from the left ventricle into the left auricle. Its flaps have no inherent rigidity, as exists in the semilunar valves, but are prevented from passing into the auricle by the chordae tendineae, which serves to attach them, either to the columnae carneae, or directly to the walls of the heart. These chordae tendineae are also present in the same rela- tion to the tricuspid valve in the right heart. The two flaps or segments forming the mitral valve are of unequal size, the largest segment lying in front and the smaller one posteriorly. The larger segment, when not closed, lies nearly over the aortic orifice, and is supposed to prevent the blood from entering the aorta, during the distension of the left ventricle. The mitral valve is situated, in health, at a point correspond- ing with the 3d intercostal space, upon the external surface of the chest, and about one inch from the left border of the sternum.