ANGIOLOGY. 392 of the axillary artery. It proceeds along the lower border of the subscapular muscle, in a direction backwards and downwards, and gives off, midway in its course, a large vessel the dorsalis scapulce branch. From this point it extends, considerably diminished in size, to the inferior angle of the scapula, accompanied by the sub- scapular nerve. This artery supplies the subscapular, serratus magnus, teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles, and anasto- moses directly with the posterior scapular branch of the trans- versalis colli artery. The dorsalis scapuloe branch turns backwards from the sub- scapular artery, about one inch and a half from the point of ori- gin of that vessel. It is larger than the direct continuation of the subscapular. It leaves the axilla through a triangular space bounded, above, by the teres minor; below, by the teres major; and in front, by the long head of the triceps. Three sets of branches are then given off by the dorsalis scapulae, one to the subscapular fossa, one to the infra-spinous fossa and one to the axillary border of the scapula. The first set supplies the subscapular muscle and anastomoses with the posterior scapular and supra-scapular vessels. The second set (properly a continuation of the vessel itself) supplies, after winding around the axillary border of the scapula, the con- tents of the infra-spinous fossa; while the third or median branch runs along the axillary border of the scapula, passing between the teres major and minor muscles and anastomoses, at the inferior angle of the bone, with the posterior scapular artery. The circumflex arteries are the two last branches of the axillary artery. They arise from the third portion of that vessel, below the pectoralis minor muscle close to the commencement of the brachial artery, and are called circumflex from the course which they take around the neck of the humerus. They are distin- guished as anterior and posterior from the direction which they respectively take around the bone. The posterior circumflex artery is the larger of the two vessels. It passes backwards immediately after its origin and winds around the humerus, lying in a quadrilateral space situated between the bone and the long head of the triceps muscle, and bounded above by the teres minor and below by the teres major muscles. It is accompanied by the circumflex nerve. This artery terminates within the deltoid muscle and upon the shoulder joint. It an- astomoses with the anterior circumflex, the acromial thoracic and the supra-scapular arteries. The anterior circumflex artery arises lower down than the pos-