THE RADIUS. 13 7 The Radius. The radius is the external of the two bones of the fore-arm, and is so called from its resemblance to the spoke of a wheel. It is small above, where it forms a small part of the elbow joint, and large below where it enters largely into the structure of the wrist joint. It is prismatic in form and curved, the convexity of the bone looking outwards, in order to afford more powerful lever- age to the pronator radii teres muscle and to increase the breadth of the fore-arm. It presents for examination, 1st, an upper ex- tremity, 2nd, a lower extremity, 3rd, a shaft. Upper Extremity. This is smaller than the lower extremity. It pre- sents the following points of interest, 1st, a head, 2nd a neck, 3rd, a tuberosity. The head of the radius is cylindrical in form and cup-shaped above. The cup articulates with the lesser head of the humerus, and the inner and broader edge of the head corresponds to the groove between the lesser head of the humerus and the trochlea. The inner and broader part of the cylin- drical surface of the head articulates with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, while the outer narrower part plays within the orbicular ligament. The neck of the radius is that constricted and rounded portion of the bone which supports the head. On its posterior surface, it presents a slight ridge for the attachment of the supinator brevis. The tuberosity of the radius is situated at the lower and inner part of the neck. It is rough behind for the insertion of the biceps muscle, and in front, it is smooth and is covered by a bursa. The tubercle of the radius can be felt only on ex- treme pronation of the hand and on the posterior sur- face of the fore-arm, slightly below the head of the bone. The head of the radius can be felt to rotate at a depression in the skin, just below the bend of the elbow upon the posterior surface of the forearm, when the forearm is extended. This point is of surgical value in deciding upon a possible displacement of the head of that bone.