337 STRUCTURE OF THE ARTERIES. tinction to the elastic fibres of the inner coat, which are arranged in a line parallel with the axis of the vessel. In the largest arter- ies\ this coat is very thick, yellow in color, and highly elastic, but as the vessels decrease in size it becomes thinner and is finally lost when the arteries approach the capillaries. The external coat consists mainly of connective tissue. It is thin in the largest arteries, but becomes as thick and often thicker than the middle coat, in arteries of small calibre. It consists of two layers, an external layer of connective tissue and an internal layer of elastic fibres, until the vessels decrease to a medium calibre, when the internal elastic coat becomes lost; the external coat, however, remains and gradually becomes thinner as the capillary vessels are approached. The arterial coats, taken as a whole, are extremely thin, in proportion to the size of the vessel, in certain special localities, among which may be especially mentioned the cavities of the cranium and of the spinal canal. The arteries of the body are enveloped, as a rule, in a fibro-areolar investment, termed their sheaths. In the extremities, this sheath is usually continuous with the deep fascia; but, in the thigh, at its upper portion, it is formed by the iliac fascia of the pelvis and the transversalis fascia of the abdomen, and, in the neck, by a prolongation of the deep cervical fascia. This sheath is loosely connected to the ex- ternal coat of the artery by areolar tissue and in many cases it affords protection to nerves and veins accompanying the artery. The external coat of the larger arteries is supplied with blood- vessels, like the organs of the body. These nutrient arteries are called vasa-vasorum. They arise either as branches of the artery which they supply, or from a neighboring vessel, at a point dis- tant to their seat of distribution. Minute veins accompany these arteries and return their blood, by means of the venae comites, which lie in close connection with the artery. Arteries are also supplied with nerves, which are chiefly de- rived from the sympathetic system but also partly from the cere- bro-spinal nerves. Upon the large arterial trunks these nerves form intricate plexuses, while, to the smaller arteries, single nerve filaments are distributed. The method of termination of the nerve filaments is still a matter of doubt.