ORGAN OF SIGHT. 578 THE EYE. The organ of vision is situated within the cavity of the orbit, and is there retained by its muscles, by the optic nerve, and by areolar tissue and the conjunctival attachments. The eye may be described as consisting of three coats, and three refracting media, namely : Coats of the eye. Refracting media. Sclerotic coat and the cornea. Aqueous humor of the eye. Choroid coat and the iris. The lens and its capsule. The retina. The vitreous humor and its hyaloid membrane. The SCLEROTIC COAT of the eye consists of a strong fibrous membrane, which covers the posterior five-sixths of the entire globe of the eye, and which is continuous, in front, with the cornea. Its outer surface is white in color and affords attachment to the muscles of the eye-ball. It is covered by the ocular reflection of the conjunctiva, Its inner surface is brown in color and is in close relation with the choroid coat, to which it is attached by a cellular membrane, called the lamina fusca. It is also grooved for the transmis- sion of the ciliary vessels and nerves. To this surface of the sclerotic coat of the eye, is attached the ciliary muscle, at its an- terior portion; and a circular groove may be perceived in this region, which marks the outer wall of the canal around the cir- cumference of the iris, the canal of Schlemm. At the posterior portion of the eye-ball, the sclerotic coat is pierced by the optic nerve and is continuous with the sheath of that nerve. It is also perforated, at about this point, by the arteria centralis retinae, and by numerous nerve filaments. The term lamina cribrosa is applied to this portion, on account of its numerous openings. The CORNEA is the covering of the anterior sixth of the eye- ball and is continuous with the sclerotic coat, from which it differs however, in its transparency, its structure, and its curve. Its cir- cumference is nearly circular in its outline, and it is more promi- nent than the rest of the eye-ball, since its curve forms an arc of a smaller circle. The degree of its curvature varies greatly, how- ever, both in individuals, and as age advances. The cornea has been found to consist of the following struc- tures :