361 BRANCHES OF OPTHALMIC ARTERY. the supra-orbital foramen in company with the supra-orbital nerve, and supplies the pericranium, the muscles and the integument of the forehead. The ethmoidal arteries are two in number, which pass through the ethmoidal foramina, into the cavity of the cranium. They supply the dura mater of the brain, the mucous membrane of the nose, the ethmoidal cells and the frontal sinuses. The palpebral arteries are two in number and form an arterial circle around the free margin of the eyelids, and supply the mucous membrane of the nasal duct. The frontal artery supplies the pericranium, muscles, and in- tegument of the frontal region. The nasal artery is distributed to the root of the nose, and * affords a free communication with the nasal and angular branches of the facial artery. The short ciliary arteries vary from twelve to fifteen in number and almost completely enclose the optic nerve. They enter the back of the globe of the eye and supply the choroid coat and the ciliary processes. The long ciliary arteries, two in number also enter at the back part of the eye and supply the ciliary ligament. They form two arterial circles, one around the circumference, and the other around the free margin of the iris, which are connected by inter- mediate branches of communication. The anterior ciliary arteries form an arterial circle around the front part of the eyeball near the circumference of the cornea. The muscular branches of the ophthalmic artery are two in number and supply the muscles of the orbit. The arteria centralis retinae is one of the smallest branches of the ophthalmic artery. It pierces the sheath and substance of the optic nerve about one-quarter of an inch behind the eye-ball, and runs, embedded within it, until it reaches the retina, where it is distributed. In the foetus, a small branch of this vessel passes directly through the vitreous humor within the posterior chamber of the eye, and is distributed to the posterior surface of the cap- sule of the lens. The anterior cerebral artery is contained in the longitudii fissure of the brain. It is connected to its fellow by an artei^ two lines in length, called the anterior communicating artery. This is the shortest artery in the body and forms the anterior boundary of the circle of Willis. The middle cerebral artery is the largest branch of the internal carotid and is a direct continuation of that vessel. It is contained