ORGAN OF RESPIRA TIGN. 552 monary veins, which empty their blood by four large orifices, into the left auricle of the heart. This set of vessels has little if any- thing to do with the nutrition of the lung substance, but is in- tended alone for the purpose of promoting oxygenation of the blood, after it has become impregnated with carbonic acid by its circulation through the systematic capillaries. The bronchial vessels comprise the bronchial arteries, whose main trunks are derived from the thoracic aorta ; and the bronch- ial veins, which empty into the vena azygos, upon the right side, and, upon the left side, into the left superior intercostal vein. These vessels supply the lung substance with nutrition, and have nothing to do with the process of oxygenation. The lymphatic vessels are arranged in two sets, called the su- perficial and the deep set, and terminate in the bronchial glands. The nerves are derived from the anterior and the posterior pulmonary plexuses, which are formed by filaments from the pneumogastric nerves and from the sympathetic. The cellular tissue, between the lobules of the lung, serves to bind the component parts of the lung together. In the foetus this tissue is imperfectly developed, so that the lobules of the lung can be easily separated from each other, but, in the adult, such a separation is impossible. In this tissue, as age advances, a peculiar coloring matter, composed of animal matter and car- bon, is deposited. THE PLEURA. The serous covering of the lung consists, like other serous membranes, of a shut sac, and invests the entire lung as well as its root. As each lung has a pleura of its own, the two sacs are distinct and separate, although they meet at the point of junc- tion of the anterior borders of the two lungs, which corresponds with the middle of the sternum. Each pleura may be traced as two folds over the outer and inner surfaces, the apex, the base, and the root of the lung which it invests. It is thin and adherent, where it invests the diaphragm, and where it comes in direct contact with the lung substance; and it is thicker and less adherent, where it lines the parietes of the chest. The reflection of the pleura, which binds the root of the lung to the upper surface of the diaphragm, is called the ligamentum pulmonis latum. That portion of the pleura^ which invests the apex of the lung,