593 THE COCHLEA. 3. The lamina spiralis. 4. The scala tympani. 5. The scala vestibuli. 6. .The scala media. The modiolus is the central axis of the cochlea, and is brbader at its base than at its apex, thus presenting a conical form. The apertures, mentioned as pertaining to the base of the cochlea, are in reality, openings in the base of the modiolus. Its apex becomes expanded and blends with the walls of the cupola. The cavity of the modiolus is called the tubulus centralis modioli, and, from this central canal, numerous smaller canals open to the outer surface of the modiolus and transmit small vessels and the filaments of the cochlear nerve. The spiral canal is a space between the modiolus and the outer wall of the cochlea. It is so called from its spiral di- rection, since it makes two and a half complete turns around the modiolus. It gradually decreases in size as it ascends, and terminates in a cul-de-sac, called the cupola, which corresponds- to the apex of the cochlea. It communicates with three open- ings as follows : The fenestra rotunda, which is closed during life by the membrana tympani secundaria. The opening into the cavity of the vestibule, which has already been described. The opening of the aquceductus cochlece, which transmits a small vein to the inferior surface of the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone. The lamina spiralis is a bony projection, which separates the spiral canal partially into its component parts, by winding around the modiolus and by extending only about one-half of the dis- tance across the cavity of the cochlea. This thin osseous zone consists of two layers, between which the filaments of the coch- lear nerve pass, and the intervening space between its edge amd the outer wall of the cavity of the cochlea is filled by a mem- brane, called the membrana basilaris, which is continuous with the periosteum covering the lamina spiralis. The scala tympani is that portion of the spiral canal of the cochlea, which lies below the lamina spiralis and the membrana basilaris. Its name is applied from its termination at the fenes- tra rotunda, which is situated upon the inner wall of the tym- panum, and which is closed by the membrana tympani secundaria. It communicates with the aquaeductus cochleae. The scala vestibuli is situated above the lamina spiralis and the