SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. IOO Posterior Surface. This surface of the sternum is smoother than the anterior, is slightly concave, and is marked, in the region of the gladiolus, by the same three transverse lines seen upon its anterior surface, but which are much less distinct. It gives attachment to the follow- ing structures. (1) The sterno-hyoid muscle. (2) The sterno-thyroid muscle. (3) The triangularis-sterni muscle. (4) The median fasciculus of the diaphragm. (5) The posterior chondro-sternal ligaments. Superior Border. This portion of the sternum is of extreme thickness. It pre- sents, in its centre, a notch termed the inter clavicular notch, and, on either side of this notch, two depressions termed the clavicular facets. These facets are for the articulation of the clavicle with the sternum. Lateral Borders. The lateral borders of the sternum present seven articular notches or depressions for the articulation of the costal cartilages of the ribs. Of these seven depressions, the manubrium has two, one high up and one just at its point of junction with the gladi- olus, and the gladiolus has five, the last one being at its point of junction with the ensiform appendix. Muscles. The sternum or breast-bone affords attachment to 9 pairs of muscles and to I single muscle, viz., the diaphragm. These muscles may be thus classified on a basis of the loca- tion of their point of attachment to the sterum. ( Sterno-cleido-mastoid. To the upper portion of the bone 3 muscles •< Sterno-hyoid. ( Sterno-thyroid. f Rectus abdominis. , r _ , I Obliquus abdominis externus To the lower portion of the bone \ f ■{ Obliquus abdominis internus (1 single muscle. transversalis abdominis. [ The Diaphragm (single). To the anterior surface of the bone 1 muscle Pectoralis Major. To the posterior surf ace of the bone 1 muscle Triangularis Sterni. Articulation. The sternum articulates with the two clavicles, and with the cartilages of the seven true ribs and the common cartilage of the three false ribs.