529 THE LIVER. The round ligament is a fibrous cord which consists of the ob- literated umbilical vein of the foetus. It is contained in the free margin of the longitudinal ligament, until it reaches the anterior border of the liver, when it passes through the longitu- dinal fissure on the under surface of that organ, and is contin- ued, from that point, as the remains of the ductus venosus, in the fissure of that name, as far back as the inferior vena cava. Fissures. The five fissures of the liver are grooves upon its under sur- face, which separate the five lobes of the liver. The longitudinal fissure is a deep groove which extends from the anterior border to the centre of the organ, as the umbili- cal fissure, and, from that point, it is continued, as the fissure for the ductus venosus, to the posterior border of the liver. It joins the transverse fissure at a right angle ; this point of junction mark- ing the line of division between its two portions, viz., the umbili- cal fissure and the fissure for the ductus venosus. It is occa- sionally bridged over by a band of liver tissue, called the pons hepatis. The fissure for the ductus venosus is the posterior half of the longitudinal fissure of the liver, which lodges in the foetus, the ductus venosus, and, in the adult, a slender fibrous cord, which the obliterated remains of that vessel. The transverse or portal fissure is two inches in length, and is the deepest fissure of the liver. . It extends transversely across the organ and joins the longitudinal fissure, at about its middle, at a right angle. It gives passage to the vessels of supply of the liver, and affords a point of exit for the hepatic duct. The rela- tions of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct and the portal vein, within this fissure, are from right to left, as follows : the hepatic duct lies to the right, the portal vein lies between the artery and the duct, but behind them both; and the hepatic artery lies to the left. The connective tissue which holds these parts together is called the capsule of Glisson. It extends into the substance of the liver and invests the branches of each of these vessels. The fissure for the gall-bladder lies parallel with the longitudi- nal fissure of the liver, and extends from the anterior border of that organ to a point nearly corresponding to the right extremity of the transverse fissure. The fissure for the vena cava is occasionally a complete canal,, and extends from the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the posterior border of the liver, where it joins the fissure of the