THE BLADDER. 56l The pelvic fascia. The obliterated hypogastric arteries. The ureters. The vasa deferentia, (in the male sex). It is covered by peritoneum, above and behind the obliterated hypogastric arteries, while, in its other portions, it is destitute of such a covering, since it rests upon the pelvic fascia. The apex of the bladder is attached to the umbilicus by the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and it is covered, behind that point, by the peritoneum. The base or fundus of the bladder is in relation, in the male sex, with the second portion of the rectum, while, in the female sex, the anterior wall of the vagina and the neck of the uterus is in relation with it. That portion of the male bladder, which is in close relation with the rectum, corresponds with a triangular space which is bounded as follows : In front, by the prostate gland. Laterally, by the vesiculse seminales. Behind, by the reflection of the peritoneum. The neck of the bladder is surrounded, in the male sex, by the prostate gland. In the erect position of the body, in both sexes, the neck of the bladder is the lowest part of that organ, and is directed downwards and forwards. The bladder has five true and five false ligaments, the latter of which are formed by reflections of peritoneum. These liga- ments may be enumerated as follows: True ligaments. False ligaments. Two anterior or pubo-prostatic. Two posterior false ligaments. Two lateral ligaments. Two lateral false ligaments. Superior ligament or the urachus. Superior false ligament. The pubo-prostatic ligaments extend from the pubes to the prostate gland and the neck of the bladder. The lateral ligaments, of the true set, are formed by the pelvic fascia, and are attached to the sides of the prostate gland and the sides of the bladder. The superior ligament or the urachus consists of a fibro-mus- cular cord, which connects the apex of the bladder with the umbilicus. The posterior false ligaments contain the obliterated hypo- gastric arteries.