THE RADIUS. 139 dicis and the extensor communis digitorum, both of which are inclosed in one synovial sheath. 4. A half groove, which is completed by the head of the ulna and which transmits the extensor minimi digiti and its sheath. This portion of the radius is slightly concave, in front, and, in its upper portion, is small and rounded; while, lower down, it becomes larger and prismatic. It presents an anterior, a posterior, and an internal border, and an anterior, a posterior, and an external surface. The anterior border extends from in front of the tuberosity to the base of the styloid process. It is prominent in its upper portion, where it forms the so- called oblique line of the bone, and it gives attachment to the supinator brevis, the flexor sublimis digitorum and the flexor longus pollicis muscles. In its lower portion, it affords attachment for the pronator quad- ratus muscle. The posterior border extends from the back of the neck of the bone to the posterior portion of the sty- loid process. It is mtfst distinct in its middle third. The internal border extends from the back of the tuberosity to the sigmoid cavity, where it bifurcates. It is sharp and very distinct in its middle third, and affords attachment to the inter-osseous ligament. The anterior surface is narrow and concave, in its upper three-fourths, and broad and concave in its lower fourth. It affords attachment to the flexor longus pol- licis, in the upper portion of the bone, and to the pronator quadratus, in its lower fourth. It presents a little above its middle the orifice of the nutrient fora- men. The posterior surface is narrow and rounded in its upper portion and broad and convex in its lower por- tion. It affords attachment, at its upper part, to the supinator brevis muscle, and, at its middle portion, where it is rough and slightly concave, to the extensor primi internodii pollicis and a few fibres of the exten- sor ossis metacarpi pollicis. The external surface is convex and affords attach- ment, in its* upper portion, to the supinator brevis