no SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. one inch and a half behind the anterior extremity of the crest, and the inferior curved line arises at the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium. The three surfaces for the attachment of muscles lie above and between the three curved lines of the dorsum ilii. From them arise the gluteus maxinus, the gluteus medius and the gluteus minimus muscles. The dorsum of the ilium presents also, (i) a triangular segment of the acetabulum (comprising about -f of the whole cavity), (2) the upper portion of the rim of the acetabulum, and (3) a groove (sometimes a ridge) from which arises the reflected tendon of the rectus muscle. Inner Surface. This surface of the ilium presents the following parts: (1) The internal fossa or venter of the ilium. This is bounded below by the linea ileo-pectinea and presents, at its inferior part, a nutrient foramen. (2) The sacro-iliac surface. This portion of the bone is for articulation with the sacrum. It is covered with cartilage, and gives attach- ment to the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. (3) A portion of the inner surface of the true pelvis. This portion of the ilium corresponds to the segment of the acetabulum previously described. Upper Border or Crest. This portion of the ilium is convex from before backwards, is curved into a segment of a circle, and, at its posterior portion, is concave from side to side, and, in its anterior portion, it is convex from side to side. It is thickest behind and in front, and thinnest at the sides of the ilium. It is divided into three lips, an outer lip, an interspace called the interstice or middle lip, and an inner lip. To the outer lip are attached three muscles, viz., the latissimus dorsi, the obliquus abdominis externus, the tensor vaginae femoris, and the fascia lata of the thigh. To the inner lip are attached three muscles, viz., the transver- salis abdominis, the quadratus lumborum, and the erector spinae. To the middle lip is attached the obliquus abdominis internus. Anterior Border. This portion of the ilium is long, concave in form and nearly vertical in direction. It presents, as the border is examined from above downwards, the following points :