ARTHROLOGY OR SYNDESMOLOGY. 88 fasciculi, into the margins of the cotyloid notch of the acetabulum. The SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE of the hip joint embraces the greater part not only of the head, but also of the neck of the femur, and it invests the capsular ligament, the cotyloid ligament, the ligamentum teres and the cavity of the acetabulum. It communicates often, through a small opening in the capsu- lar ligament of the hip joint, with a bursa situated beneath the psoas and the iliacus muscles. The vessels of the hip joint are derived from the obturator, the accessory obturator, the sciatic, and the internal circumflex arteries. The nerves of the hip joint are derived from the great sciatic, the obturator, the accessory obturator, and branches from the sacral plexus of nerves. Movements of the Hip Joint. The movements of the hip joint comprise those of flexion, ex- tension, adduction, abduction, rotation and circumduction. Of these motions, flexion is freer than extension ; of the lateral move- ments, abduction is the freest, unless flexion be combined with adduction so that one limb passes in front of the other; while circumduction is much less free in the hip than in the shoulder. Flexion at the hip joint is checked by the approximation of the soft parts and by the ischio-femoral ligament. Extension at the hip joint is checked by the iliofemoral liga- ment. This movement of the hip is confined to a few degrees only from the line of a perpendicular, in the erect attitude, if the pelvis be prevented from participating in the movement and thus affording an apparent and not a real movement within the joint. Abduction at the hip joint is checked by the Y or iliofemoral ligament and is limited to an arc of less than 90 degrees, if the pelvis be prevented from participating in the movement. Adduction at the hip joint is checked by the inner fork of the Y or iliofemoral ligament, except when the thigh is flexed and that ligament is thus relaxed, when the ischiofemoral ligament assists in limiting this movement of the femur. Rotation outwards of the femur at the hip joint is checked by the ligamentum teres and by the outer fork of the Y or iliofemoral ligament. Rotation inwards of the femur at the hip joint is checked by the ischiofemoral ligament. The entire arc of rotation, which the femur is capable of per- forming, is about one-quarter of a circle or 90 degrees.