ORGANS OF GENERA TION. 5 66 the middle lobe of the prostate, and resembles, in its shape, the female organ of conception. The seminal ducts open into the anterior part? of the prostatic portion of the urethra. The MEMBRANOUS PORTION of the urethral canal is contained between the two layers of the triangular ligament of the perineum. It is so called from the character of its coats, which are almost entirely destitute of erectile tissue, and which are therefore ex- tremely thin. This portion of the urethra allows of great latitude of motion to the penis, and, from the absence of abundant erec- tile tissue, the danger of fracture of that organ, when erected, is therefore greatly diminished. The membranous portion of the urethra is shorter upon its lower than upon its upper surface, on account of the projection backwards of the bulb of the urethra, which encroaches upon its lower surface. The ducts of Cowper’s glands are perceived upon the sides of this portion of the urethra, external to its coats, on their way to open into the bulb of the urethra. The SPONGY PORTION of the urethra comprises the remainder of the canal, and is contained within the corpus spongiosum. It is about six inches in length, and presents two enlargements, one at either end, called the bulb of the urethra, and the fossa navi- cularis. The bulb of the urethra is situated at the posterior part of the corpus spongiosum, and the fossa navicularis is situated at the an- terior extremity, within the glans penis. Both of these localities are of larger calibre than the balance of the spongy portion, and possess points of surgical interest, which render their anatomical situation important. The urethra has three coats, called, respectively, the muscular, the mucous, and the erectile coats. The muscular coat consists of a layer of involuntary or un- striped muscular fibres, which lie under the mucous coat of the canal. Two voluntary muscles are also connected with the urethra, which are not properly a portion of the muscular coat of the canal, but which are of physiological importance in assisting in the voidance of urine and the ejaculation of semen. These two muscles are called the compressor urethrae and the accelerator urinae. \ They are usually described in connection with the anat- omy of the perineum. The mucous coat of the urethra extends throughout the entire length of the canal, and is covered, for the greater portion of its