ANGIOLOGY. 426 The right vena azygos arises either from the lumbar vein, the inferior vena cava, or the right renal vein. It passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and here lies upon the right side of the thoracic duct, and behind and to the right of the aorta. It empties into the superior vena cava, on a level with the 3d dor- sal vertebra, having previously received the ten lower intercostal veins of the right side, the vena azygos minor, the right bronch- ial vein, and several small oesophageal, mediastinal and spinal veins. The vena azygos minor arises either from the left lumbar vein or from the left renal vein. It leaves the abdominal cavity through an opening in the left crus of the diaphragm, and, having collected the blood of the five lower intercostal veins of the left side, and some small mediastinal, oesophageal, and spinal veins, it crosses the spinal column behind the aorta and the thoracic duct and opens into the vena azygos major, on a level with the 6th dorsal vertebra. The left superior azygos vein collects the blood from the upper intercostal veins of the left side, and terminates in the vena azygos major. It may be absent. PORTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS. The portal vein, which carries blood to the transverse fissure of the liver, is formed by the junction of four large veins, viz.: Gastric vein. Splenic vein. Superior mesenteric vein. Inferior mesenteric vein. The gastric vein empties the blood of the stomach either into the main portal trunk or into the right branch of the portal vein. The splenic vein arises by five or six branches, which emerge from the hilum of the spleen; and it also receives blood from the veins which correspond to the branches of the splenic artery. The superior mesenteric vein receives blood from those veins which correspond to the branches of the artery of the same name. The inferior mesenteric vein also receives, as tributaries, veins corresponding to the branches of the artery of the same name. This vein affords an outlet, in the rectum, for portal blood, in case of portal obstruction. The portal system will be considered, in detail, under the de- scription of the liver.