BONES OF THE FACE. 43 the groove which corresponds to the situation of the superior meatus of the nose. Upon the inner surface of the body, is furthermore seen a groove, which enters into the formation of the nasal duct, by its articulation with the lachrymal and the inferior turbinated bones. The aperture of the Antrum of Highmore is also perceived upon this surface of the body of the bone. It is a very large opening in the disarticulated bone, but during life or in the com- plete skull it is of small size, being diminished by the articula- tions of the ethmoid, lachrymal, inferior turbinated and palate bones. Two other points remain upon this surface which deserve notice. The first is a vertical groove which helps to form the posterior palatine canals, and the second is a rough surface which is traversed by the vertical groove previously mentioned, and which affords attachment for the articulating surface of the palate bone. (3.) Upper or orbital surface of body. This portion of the superior maxillary bone forms the greater part of the floor of the orbit. Upon its inner border, it is bounded by a thin edge of bone which articulates with the lachrymal bone, the os planum of the ethmoid bone and the orbital process of the palate bone. Upon its outer border, it is bounded by a rounded margin which forms a part of the spheno-maxillary fissure, while, in front, it forms the lower part of the circumference of the orbit. Upon this surface of the bone is seen, at its posterior portion, the infra-orbital groove, which becomes the infra-orbital canal at the anterior portion, near to the circumference of the orbit. This canal transmits the infra-orbital nerve. A depression for the in- inferior oblique muscle of the eye is also perceived. (4.) The Antrum of Highmore. This cavity in the body of the superior maxillary bone is also called the maxillary sinus. Its walls correspond to the three surfaces of the body of the bone. They are very thin, and contain the infra-orbital, the anterior dental and the posterior dental canals. Its aperture communicates with the middle meatus of the nasal fossa and is of small size in the living subject. The 1st and 2nd molar teeth project through its floor, and, in case of abscess of the antrum, these teeth are often drawn to es- tablish drainage.