343 THE AORTA AS A WHOLE. Aneurism of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta most frequently develops on its right extremity and the poste- rior aspect of the vessel. At this point many important rela- tions exist, which render the development of a tumor an inevita- ble associate of symptoms referred to other localities. The trachea, oesophagus and thoracic duct lie in the closest relation posteriorly ; the recurrent laryngeal nerve winds around the aorta on the left side ; and the large arterial trunks given off from its convex or upper border furnish the blood supply to the head and the upper extremities. Thus the pressure of an aneurismal tumor in this locality, by affecting the bronchi or the trachea, may produce dyspnoea cough, haemoptysis and stridulous respiration ; by affecting the oesophagus, deglutition may be impaired or destroyed ; by creat- ing pressure on the thoracic duct, the patient may die of inanition. Pressure upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve has often pro- duced symptoms so analogous to those of inflammation of the larynx, that tracheotomy has often been performed from an error in diagnosis. By an obstruction of the innominate artery, either partial or complete, the radial pulse of the right side may be either dimin- ished in its volume or entirely absent. By pressure upon the innominate yeins, the venous return from the head and upper extremities may be impaired and thus cyanosis, oedema, and diminished temperature, of the parts, in which the circulation is obstructed, may result. When an aneu- rismal dilatation of the aorta develops to a great size in an upward direction, it may simulate aneurism of the arteria innominata, by appearing above and to the right of the sternum ; and, by reaching the brachial plexus of nerves in the neck, it may produce shoot- ing pains running down the upper extremity to the tips of the fingers. Aneurism of the descending portion of the arch of the aorta is usually situated upon the left side of the vessel and develops in a backward direction. By pressure, it most frequently causes absorption of the adjoining ribs and bodies of the vertebrae. It may, however, produce also symptoms referable to pressure upon the trachea, left bronchus, oesophagus and of the right or left lung. In case of spontaneous rupture of the sac, the blood may be poured out into the pleural cavity (usually that of the left side) ; or in rare cases, into the trachea, left bronchus, oesophagus, orinto the substance of the left lung. In this variety of aneurism, an intercostal neuralgia of a severe and constant type, is produced