141 BONES OF THE CARPUS. BONES OF THE CARPUS. The carpal bones are eight in number and are divided into two rows of four bones each. The bones which enter into the forma- tion of the upper row are thus named, from without inwards, trans- versely across the wrist. 1, the scaphoid, 2, the semilunar, 3, the cuneiform, 4, the pisiform. The bones which comprise the second row of the carpus may be thus enumerated in their order from without inwards. 1, the trapezium, 2, the trapezoid, 3, the os-magnum, 4, the unciform. The SCAPHOID BONE is named from its resemblance to the shape of a boat, being broad at one end, narrowed at the other like a prow and convex upon one side. It presents a narrow extremity which is called its tuberosity, and which may be felt at the back of the wrist, on the inner side of the extensor tendons of the thumb, a broad end, a convex and a concave surface, a convex and a con- cave border. It articulates with five bones, viz., the semilunar bone, the trapezium, the trapezoid, the os magnum, and the radius. The SEMILUNAR BONE is so called from a cresentic cavity and a somewhat cresentic outline. It presents four articular surfaces a con- cave, a convex, and two lateral, and two surfaces which are called the dorsal and the palmar. It articulates with five bones, viz., the rad“ ius, the scaphoid, the os magnum, the cuneiform, and the unciform. The CUNEIFORM is wedge-shaped, and is best distinguished from the other carpal bones by an isolated facet for the articulation of the pisiform bone. It presents three surfaces, a rough, a con- cave, and a smooth, a base, which is articular, and an apex, which is rough and pointed. It articulates with three bones, viz., the semilunar, the pisiform, and the unciform. The PISIFORM BONE may be recognized by its small size and by possessing a single articular facet. It is the smallest of the bones of the carpus, is of an ovoid form and is placed ver- tically in front of the cuneiform bone, where it can be felt upon the palm of the hand, just below the ulna. It possesses four sides and two extremities. One of these sides is articular, one rounded, one concave and one convex in form. It articulates with one bone only, viz., the cuneiform bone. The TRAPEZIUM is very irregular in shape, but it may be dis- tinguished by a deep groove for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle. It possesses three surfaces, one articular and one oval in form, the other marked by three facets and three rough borders. It articulates with four bones, viz., the scaphoid, the