OCCIPITAL BONE. *9 (7.) The anterior condyloid foramina, which are situated in front of the condyles and which transmit the hypog- lossal nerves. (8.) The posterior condyloid foramina, which lie behind the condyles and which transmit a vein to the lateral sinus of the skull. Occasionally no foramen is present and a fossa takes its place. (9.) The jugular processes, which lie on the outer side of the condyle and which give attachment to the recti cap- itis laterales muscles and to the lateral occipito-atloid ligaments. (10.) The basilar process, which forms the anterior projection of the occipital bone and which articulates with the body of the sphenoid bone. (n.) The pharyngeal spine, which is a bony projection upon the basilar process for the attachment of the tendin- ous raphe and the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. (12.) Two rough depressions upon the basilar process for the recti capitis antici majores and minores muscles. Inner Surface. The inner surface of the occipital bone is concave in its shape and is divided into four fosses by two crucial ridges of bone, which at their point of intersection form the internal occipital protuber- ance, at the centre of which is a depression which corresponds to the torcular Herophili. The upper division of this crucial ridge of bone ascends to the superior angle of the occipital bone, and is deeply grooved for the superior longitudinal sinus and for the attachment of the falx cerebri. The inferior division is termed by some anatomists the inter- nal occipital crest. It descends to the foramen magnum where it bifurcates. It gives attachment to the falx cerebelli. The lateral divisions of this crucial ridge form the inferior boundaries of the two superior or cerebral fossae, and the superior boundary of the inferior or cerebellar fossae of the occipital bone. They are deeply grooved for the attachment of the lateral sinuses and the tentorium cerebelli. At the lower portion of the bone upon its inner surface, is seen again the internal margin of the foramen magnum, which has already been described, and, near the sides of this large opening, appear also the internal orifice of the anterior condyloid foramina. Upon the internal surface of the basilar process is seen the basilar