ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 520 Its nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and sympa- thetic. THE STOMACH. The stomach, or the chief organ of digestion, is situated in the left hypochondriac, the epigastric, and a pa$*t of the right hypo- chondriac regions. It consists, like the intestinal canal, of four coats, viz., the serous, the muscular, the cellular, and the mucous coats. It presents for examination two surfaces, an anterior and a posterior, two extremities, two curvatures or borders, and two openings. The anterior surf ace is in contact with the under surface of the liver, the diaphragm, and the anterior wall of the abdomen. The posterior surface is covered with peritoneum, and, by it, is separated from the great vessels of the abdomen, the solar plexus of nerves, the pancreas, and the diaphragm. The splenic end, or fundus of the stomach, is connected with the spleen by the gastro-splenic omentum. The pyloric end is in relation with the wall of the abdomen, the under surface of the liver, and the neck of the gall-bladder. The greater curvature gives attachment to the great omentum and lies above the transverse colon. The lesser curvature is connected to the diaphragm by the gastro-phrenic ligament, and, to the transverse fissure of the liver, by the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum. The oesophageal or cardiac opening corresponds to the level of the 9th dorsal vertebra. The pyloric opening is situated at the pyloric extremity. Coats of the Stomach. The serous coat of the stomach covers its whole surface, except at the points of attachment of the gastro-splenic, the greater, and the lesser omenta. The muscular coat consists of three sets of fibres, called from their direction, the longitudinal, the circular, and the oblique fibres. The circular fibres form a sphincter muscle, at the pylo- ric orifice ; the longitudinal fibres are continuous with those of the oesophagus and the intestinal canal; while the oblique fibres are a continuation of the circular fibres of the oesophagus. The cellular coat serves for the division of the blood-vessels, before they enter the mucous membrane of that organ. The mucous membrane of the stomach is thick at the pyloric