452 ANGIOLOGY. the crus cerebri, and runs downward and forward to a point just behind the fissure of Sylvius, almost exactly opposite the place from which it started. In this lower portion of its course it is often designated as the “gyrus hippocampi'* The Floor of the Brain. The base of the brain, upon its under surface, is formed mainly by the inferior surface of each hemisphere of the cerebrum. The various points of interest exposed to view, on the under surface of the cerebrum, in or near the median line, are here ar- ranged in the order in which they are met with, from before backwards. 1. Longitudinal fissure. 2. Corpus callosum and its pe- duncles. 3. Lamina cinerea. 4. Olfactory nerves. 5. Fissure of Sylvius. 6. Anterior perforated space. 7. Optic commissure. 8. Tuber Cinereum. 9. Infundibulum. 10. Pituitary body. 11. Corpora albicantia. 12. Posterior perforated space. 13. Crura cerebri. The longitudinal fissure separates the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. The corpus callosum is the great transverse commissure of the brain and connects the two hemispheres. The lamina cinerea is a thin layer of grey matter which con- nects the corpus callosum with the tuber cinereum, passing be- neath each of the optic tracts, near the optic commissure. The fissure of Sylvius separates the anterior lobe of the cere- brum from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and lodges the middle cerebral artery. It has been described in preceding pages. The anterior perforated space admits vessels to the corpora striata. The optic commissure or chiasm is formed by the union of the optic tracts, in front of the tuber cinereum. From it the two optic nerves are given off. It is composed of four varieties of fibres, as follows: 1. The inter-cerebral fibres, which pass from one hemisphere of the cerebrum to the other. 2. The inter-retinal fibres, which connect the retina of one eye with that of the other. 3. Longitudinal fibres, which connect the brain with the retina of the same side. 4. Decussating fibres, which connect the hemispheres of the