S9 THE HIP-JOINT. Points of Surgical Value Pertaining to the Hip. The hip-joint is so constructed that atmospheric pressure alone will support the weight of the limb, even after all the soft parts around the joint have been divided. If air be allowed, how- ever, to enter into the joint, by perforation of the acetabulum from within the pelvis, the limb will immediately drop. The anterior superior spine of the ilium is a valuable aid in recognizing the nature of injuries of the hip joint, since the rela- tion of the trochanter of the femur to this point is altered in dis- location and fracture of that bone. A valuable9guide to amputation at the hip joint is afforded by a furrow, which runs, from the angle between the scrotum and the thigh, outwards towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. This furrow lies directly over the capsule of the joint, and when fluid is present within the joint, this furrow is obliterated and a prominence is often present. The great trochanter of the femur is a most important guide to the diagnosis of diseased conditions and injuries of the hip- joint. Its upper border is situated, when normally placed, on a level with the spine of the pubes and about three-quarters of an inch lower than the articular head of the femur. It is superficially placed, and is separated from the integument only by the fascia of the gluteus maximus muscle and a bursa which lies beneath it. Nelatons guide, to detect any displacement of the femur at the hip joint, consists of a line drawn from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the most prominent part of the tuberosity of the ischium. This line should cross the upper border of the trochanter of the femur, and it also crosses the centre of the cavity of the acetabulum. To properly apply this test, the thigh should be semi-flexed and slightly adducted. In performing reduction of the dislocations of the femur at the hip joint by motion, a valuable guide is afforded to the inex- perienced surgeon as to the direction of the head of the femur during the various movements required, by remembering that the head of the femur will look in the same general direction as does the inner surface of the internal condyle of that bone. The Y or ilio-femoral ligament is a most important factor in the reduction of dislocations of femur at the hip joint by motion, since it affords a point of resistance to the steps of abduction, rotation and extension, which are required to accomplish the reduction of that bone.