499 PLEXUSES OF THE SYMPATHETIC. Solar or epigastric plexus. Phrenic plexus. Coeliac plexus. Gastric plexus. Hepatic plexus. Superior mesenteric plexus. Suprarenal plexus. Renal plexus. Spermatic plexus. Aortic plexus. Hypogastric plexus. Pelvic plexuses. Most of these plexuses, as their names would indicate, are de- veloped upon some vessel and are continued upon its branches; some of the plexuses, above mentioned, are formed to a greater or less extent by nerves derived from larger and more important plexuses ; while others possess, from the parts to which they are distributed, special importance. The carotid and cavernous plexuses are developed upon the internal carotid artery ; the former just before, and the latter after its entrance into the cavernous sinus. The cardiac plexuses are termed the superficial and the deep ; and the two coronary plexuses are secondary to them, since they derive from them their principal filaments, although the pulmon- ary plexuses also assist to form them. The superficial cardiac plexus is situated beneath the arch of the aorta and in front of the right pulmonary artery, while the deep, or great cardiac plexus is situated between the trachea and the arch of the aorta. The anterior coronary plexus accompanies the left coronary artery, while the posterior coronary plexus accompanies the right coronary artery. They are both formed by branches from the cardiac and pulmonary plexuses. The solar or epigastric plexus lies behind the stomach and surrounds the ccelic axis and the root of the superior mesenteric artery. It consists of a network of nerves and ganglia, the two largest of which ganglia lie in front of the crura of the diaphragm, and, from their shape are called the semi-lunar ganglia. The solar plexus is mainly formed by the splanchnic nerves and the right pneumogastric nerves, although the left pneumogastric and both of the phrenic nerves have been traced to it. By means of this plexus, the phrenic, the coeliac, the superior mesenteric, the suprarenal, the renal, the spermatic, and the ovarian plexuses are, to a greater or less extent, formed.