548 ORGANS OF RESPIRA TION. since they are no longer required as a protective measure against obstructed entrance to air. Within the substance of the lung the bronchial tubes divide and subdivide dichotomously until they reach a diameter of about one-fiftieth of an inch, when they penetrate the various lobules of the lung, and, since they then pass between the air cells, they are called intercellular passages. The bronchial tubes, within the substance of the lung are usually found to be placed between corresponding branches of the pulmonary artery and vein. THE LUNGS. The essential organs of respiration are contained within the cavity of the thorax and are characterized by their light density, their porous structure, their crepitation on pressure, and their elasticity. At the time of birth, their color is of a pinkish white, but, in the adult, a mottled grey color is developed, and, as age advances, the mottling becomes darker and frequently almost black. The lungs present for examination an outer and an inner sur- face, an anterior and a posterior border, a base, and an apex. * The outer surface is convex, and, at its posterior portion ex- tends deeper in the cavity of the chest than in its anterior portion. Upon either side, may be perceived a deep fissure which extends obliquely downwards and forwards from the region of the apex towards the base ; and, in the right lung, another fissure which extends obliquely upwards and forwards from about the central point of the fissure above mentioned. These fissures divide the lungs into their respective lobes. The left lung is divided into two lobes, while the right lung is divided into three. The lower lobes of both lungs are of large size. In the right lung, the mid- dle is the smallest of the three lobes. The outer surface of each lung lies in close relation with the parietes of the chest and is sep- arated from it by its pleural investment. The inner surface of the lung is concave, and, upon the left side, is deeply excavated in order to afford a space for the heart and the pericardium. This surface of the lung assists in forming the space called the middle mediastinum of the chest, in which are contained the heart, the pericardium, all the great vessels con- nected with the heart, the phrenic nerves, and the bifurcation of the trachea. The anterior border of the lung is shorter than the posterior