ARTERIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The arterial trunk, which furnishes blood to the upper limb, continues undivided from the commencement of the subclavian artery, at a point corresponding, on the right side, to the right sterno-clavicular articulation, and, on the left side, at the aortic arch, till the elbow is reached on either side. This continuous vessel however has been given names in different portions of its course according to the regions of the body through which it passes. This division, however artificial it may be, serves greatly to facilitate reference and to aid in the description of the vessel. From the commencement of the vessel as far as the outer border of the first rib, the name subclavian artery is applied, from its position beneath the clavicle; from the first rib to the lower border of the teres major muscle, which marks the termination of the axillary space posteriorly, it is named the axillary artery; and from this point to the bifurcation at the bend of the elbow it is termed the brachial artery. THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. In most cases, the description of one side serves for both ; but this is not true of the subclavian artery since this vessel arises, on the two sides, from different points, and therefore causes ex- treme variations in the relations of the first portion of the course of the subclavian artery of the right and the left side. It has been customary therefore to divide the subclavian artery, of each side, into three distinct portions, since by so doing the descrip- tion of the vessel may be greatly simplified. These three por- tions are indicated by the relation which the vessel bears to the scalenusanticus muscle; the first portion extending from the point of origin of the subclavian, on each side, to the inner border of this muscle; the second portion, on each side lying behind this muscle, as the artery passes over the first rib ; and the third por- tion lying to the outside of the external border of the same mus- cle and extending to the point of termination of the subclavian artery, at the lower border of the first rib. Each of these parts will now be examined in detail. The first portion of the artery will require, however, a separate description for the right and the left side, since in it alone, is there any mate- rial difference in the anatomical description of the two vessels.