THE HEART. The heart is the hollow muscular organ which propels the blood in the arteries, during life. It is situated within the thoracic cavity, between the lungs, with its base nearly parallel with the median line, and its apex corresponding to the 5th inter- costal space and situated one inch to the left of a perpendicular line drawn through the left nipple. It is five inches in length, three and one-half inches in breadth, and two and one-half inches in thick- ness. In the male, it weighs from ten to twelve ounces, and in the female from eight to ten ounces. It has four distinct cavities, which are named the right and left ventricle, and the right and left auricle. Of these, the ven- tricles are the more capacious and their walls are of greater thick- ness. They are lined by a serous membrane, called the endocar- dium, which is continuous with the lining coat of the blood- vessels. The heart is attached at its base, by means of the aorta, to the posterior wall of the thorax, while its apex is free and capable of a limited amount of motion. The whole organ is enveloped in a fibrous sac, called the per- icardium, which is attached, at the base of the heart, to the great vessels, and which is lined internally by a serous membrane. It contains normally about one dram of fluid, for the purpose of lu- brication. It is continuous, belov^ with the central tendon of the diaphragm, and is separated from the chest wall, except at a limited area, by lung tissue. The relative weight of the heart to that of the body varies greatly in the foetus and in the adult, and it shows also a variation in the two sexes, but by no means in so marked a degree. Thus, in the foetus, the heart represents one-fiftieth of the entire weight of the body; while, in the adult male, it represents only one one-hundred and sixty-ninth, and, in the adult female one one-hundred and forty-ninth of the total weight. The area upon the anterior surface of the chest which corres- ponds to the situation of that portion of the heart, where it is in close relation to the chest wall and is uncovered by lung tissue, can be approximately defined by describing a circle, whose di-