20 BONES OF THE HEAD. groove, in which lie the pons Varolii and the medulla oblongata, and, upon each side of the basilar groove, are two smaller grooves which partly lodge the inferior petrosal sinuses. Borders. The occipital bone presents for examination two superior borders and two inferior borders. The superior borders articulate with the parietal bone of each side of the cranium, and by so doing form the lambdoidal suture. The inferior borders articulate with the mastoid and petrous portions of the temporal bone and assist in forming the jugular foramen or the foramen lacerum posterius. Angles. The occipital bone has four angles, the superior, the inferior, and two lateral angles. The superior angle is formed by the approximation and union of the two superior borders of the bone. It is received between the two parietal bones of the skull and assists in forming the so- called posterior foritanelle, which is a triangular space bounded on either side by the parietal bones and behind by the occipital bone and which is uncovered by bone at the time of birth. The inferior angle is situated at the end of the basilar process of the occipital bone and joins with the body of the sphenoid bone, to which it becomes ossified at about the eighteenth or twentieth year of age. The lateral angles are received between the posterior inferior angles of the parietal bone and the mastoid portions of the tem- poral bones. It presents upon its inner surfaces a portion of the grooves for the attachment of the lateral sinuses. Muscles attached to the Occipital Bone. To the occipital bone are attached twelve pairs of muscles, all of which arise from its exterior surface. These twelve pairs of muscles may be thus classified : {Occipitofrontalis. Trapezius. Sterno-cleido- mastoid. Between the curved lines (2) { gPLENros Capitis. Between the inferior ( Obliquus Capitis superior. curved line and for- (3) ■< Rectus Capitis posticus major. amen magnum ( Rectus Capitis posticus minor. ) Superior constrictor of pharynx. Rectus Capitis Anticus Major. Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor. wTo jugular process (i)-{ Rectus Capitis lateralis. Muscles at- tached to Oc- cipital bone. (12.) Total 12