122 BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 4. A deep vertical groove, which affords attachment for the lower portion of the subscapularis muscle. Posterior Surface. The posterior surface or dorsum, of the scapula is divided by a bony ridge, called the spine of the scapula, into two unequal por- tions. The upper one is called the supra-spinous fossa, and the lower one the infra-spinous fossa. The posterior surface of the scapula is alternately concave and convex, being, from side to side, thrown into alternate ridges and depressions. The supra-spinous fossa is the smaller of the two. It is smooth, broadest at its internal portion, and affords attachment to the supra-spinatus muscle. The infra-spinous fossa is convex at its centre, and concave upon either side of its central portion. It presents the following points for examination, in addition to two processes, viz., the spinous and the acromion. 1. Internal oblique ridges, for the attachment of the infra- spinatus muscle. 2. A rough apponeurotic ridge, running parallel with the exter- nal border of the scapula, which separates the fossa of the infra-spinatus muscle from the free edge of the bone. 3. A marginal space, external to the ridge above mentioned. This space affords attachment, from above downwards, to the teres minor and teres major muscles, and occa- sionally to a few fibres of the latissimus dorsi muscle. The SPINOUS PROCESS of the scapula is a prominent triangular- shaped process, which crosses the dorsum of the scapula obliquely, near the line of junction of the upper and the three lower fourths, and which is continuous, at its outer extremity, with the acromion process. It presents two surfaces and three borders for exami- nation. The surfaces, are called the upper and lower surfaces of the spine. They are both concave and enter into the con- struction, respectively, of the supra-spinous and the infra-spinous fossae. They afford attachment to the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus muscles. The borders are called the anterior, posterior, and external borders. The anterior border is continuous with the body of the scapula.