530 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. ductus venosus. In this fissure is perceived a deep fossa, at the bottom of which the hepatic veins of the liver escape to open into the inferior vena cava. Lobes. The five lobes of the liver present the following points of in- terest. The right lobe is very large, equalling or exceeding in size the combined volume of the four remaining lobes. It occupies the right hypochondriac region, and is separated from the left lobe by the suspensory ligament, upon its upper surface ; upon its lower surface, by the longitudinal fissure; and, in front, by a deep notch upon its anterior border. Its under surface presents five points of interest, viz., the transverse fissure, the fissure for the gall-bladder, the fissure for the inferior vena cava, and two shal- low depressions, which lodge the hepatic flexure of the colon and the right kidney with its supra-renal capsule. •' The left lobe of the liver is situated in the epigastric and the left hypochondriac regions, and is smaller than the right lobe and flattened in its form. It occasionally extends to the spleen with which it then bears a relation, as well as with the stomach ; but with the latter it always lies in close relation. The lobulus quadratus is so called from its square outline, and lies upon the under surface of the liver. Its boundaries are as follows ; In front, by the free margin of the lobe. Behind, by the transverse fissure. On the right, by the fissure for the gall bladder. On the left, by the umbilical fissure. The lobulus Spigelii lies at the back part of the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and is bounded as follows. In front, by the transverse fissure. Behind, by the free margin of the lobe. On the right, by the fissure for the vena cava. On the left, by the fissure for the ductus venosus. The lobulus caudatus is so called from its resemblance to a tail to the right lobe. It connects the right lobe to the lobulus Spigelii, and separates the transverse fissure from the fissure for the vena cava. Vessels. The vessels of the liver are five in number, and present the following points of interest. The hepatic artery arises from the coeliac axis, and enters the