6oo PERINEAL VESSELS AND NER VES. the psoas and iliacus muscles, and with the fascia transversalis. It splits, at the point of attachment between it and the fibres of the levator ani muscle, into two layers, which are called the ob- turator, and the recto-vesical fascice. It covers the sacral plexus of nerves and the pyriformis muscle, and is perforated by the in- ternal iliac vessels. The obturator fascia forms a canal for the pudic vessels and nerves. It gives off a thin layer to the third portion of the rectum, which is called the anal or the ischio-rectal fascia, and is attached to the pubic arch and the sacro-sciatic ligaments. The recto-vesical fascia forms the pubo-prostatic ligaments, and . encloses the prostate gland and the prostatic plexus of veins. It also forms the true lateral ligaments of the bladder, and sends a prolongation between the bladder and the rectum, which invests the vesiculae seminales. It is situated upon the inner surface of the levator ani muscle. The ARTERIES of the perineum have been described in the chapter of this work upon angiology, but the surgical importance of each may be here mentioned. The pudic artery, of each side, lies close to the ramus of the pubes and the ischium, and is liable to be wounded in lithotomy, if the incision be carried too far outwards. The artery of the bulb is a source of serious hemorrhage in lithotomy, if the incision be made too far in front; and, in urethro- tomy of the deeper portions of that canal. It enters the bulb of the urethra, between the two layers of the triangular ligament. The transverse perineal artery lies parallel with the muscle of the same name, and is almost always wounded in the lateral opera- tion for stone, since that muscle is usually divided. The inferior hemorrhoidal artery is distributed to the lower part of the rectum and the anus. The superficial perineal artery distributes its branches to the scrotum and the dartos. Its branches are usually divided in any incision which involves the superficial fascia of the perineum. The NERVES of the perineum are in relation with the arteries of fhe same name.