VENTRICLES OF ENCEPHALON. 445 Lateral Ventricles (boundaries). In front Brain substance and anterior cornu. Behind. Brain substance and posterior cornu. Externally Brain substance and middle cornu. Internally Septum lucidum. Above Corpus callosum. Below (6 points of interest).. r Corpus striatum. Taenia semicircularis. Optic thalamus. Choroid plexus of veins. Corpus fimbriatum. L Fornix. Each of the lateral ventricles presents three prolongations into the brain substance which are known as the anterior, middle, and posterior cornua, and which have been mentioned in the boundaries of the main cavity. The anterior cornu passes forwards and outwards over the anterior extremity of the corpus striatum. The middle cornu is curved like the horn of a ram, and the direction of its five curves may be represented, in their order from the ventricle to its point of termination, by the initial letters, B. O. D. F. I. On its floor is seen, (i) an eminence called the hippo- campus major; (2) a few rounded masses resembling the paw of an animal and called the pes hippocampi; (3) an eminence called the pes accessorius or eminentia collaterals ; (4) a projection formed by a continuation of the posterior pillar of the fornix called the corpus fimbriatum ; (5) a continuation of the pia mater into the interior of the brain forming the choroid plexus; (6) a serrated band of grey matter, the fascia dentata; and (7) the transverse fissure of the brain. The posterior cornu curves backwards, downwards and out- wards into the occipital lobe of the cerebrum, and then backwards, downwards and inwards. On its floor is a longitudinal eminence called the hippocampus minor. In the table of boundaries it will be perceived that upon the floor of each lateral ventricle are present two of the ganglia of the brain, viz., the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus; a semi- circular-shaped band of fibres between these ganglia called the tcenia semicircularis, which extends from the anterior crus of the fornix to the middle or descending cornu; a plexus of veins de- rived from the pia-mater of the brain, and called the choroid plexus; a portion of the corpus fimbriatum, which has been de- scribed in connection with the middle cornu ; and the fornix, which will receive a special description in subsequent pages of this volume.