i8o ARTHROLOGY OR SYNDESMOLOGY. shaft. This ligament possesses three openings, through which the prolongations of the synovial membrane upon the tendons of the above named muscles take place. The vessels of this joint are derived from the circumflex and the supra-scapular arteries. The nerves of the shoulder-joint are derived from the circum- flex and the supra-scapular trunks. The movements of the shoulder-joint are very free and embrace all the varieties possible to joints. The Elbow Joint. This is a ginglymus articulation between the lower end of the humerus and the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna and the head of the radius. It has four ligaments, as follows: I. The anterior ligament, which connects the inner condyle and the anterior portion of the humerus, with the orbicular ligament of the radius and with the under surface of the coronoid process of the ulna. II. The. posterior ligament, which connects the apex and sides of the olecranon process of the ulna, to the lower end of the posterior surface of the humerus, above the margin of the olecranon fossa. III. The external lateral ligament, which connects the external condyle of the humerus with the orbicular ligament of the radius. IV. The internal lateral ligament, which connects the internal condyle of the humerus with the inner border of the coronoid and olecranon processes of the ulna. The synovial membrane of this joint lines the coronoid and the olecranon fossae of the humerus and also dips down between the articular surface of the superior radio-ulnar articulation. It is also reflected over the anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments of the joint. The vessels of this joint are derived from the superior and inferior profunda, the anastomotica magna, and the radial, ulnar, and interosseous recurrent arteries. The nerves to this joint are derived from the ulnar and the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The movements of the elbow joint consist of flexion and ex- tension only, although, from the direction of the articulating sur- faces of the humerus, the hand during flexion moves in a plane internal to the direction of the axis of the shaft of the humerus.