ACTION OF MUSCLES OF PERINEUM. 263 the voluntary control of the bladder and not to the existence of elastic fibres or a contractile sphincter at its neck. This theory of the action of the muscle seems confirmed by certain observed facts during the physiological acts in which the levator ani muscle plays so important a part. Thus, in the act of defecation, while the feces are entering the cavity of the rec- tum and while the levator ani and sphincter ani are fully relaxed, the flow of urine becomes almost uncontrollable, from the corre- sponding relaxation of the urinary apparatus. On the other hand, during the expulsive efforts of the rectal muscles in emptying the contents of the rectum, the evacuation of the urine becomes im- possible, from the contracted condition of the levator prostatae muscle. The accelerator urince muscle also performs functions of great physiological interest. By its fibres, the bulb of the urethra is compressed, and, furthermore, the dorsal vein of the penis is ob- structed by an anterior loop of fibres enclosing the body of that organ. This muscle is undoubtedly an agent in the ejaculation of semen and in the expulsion of the last few drops of urine from the urethral canal; while, by compression of the dorsal vein, it also contributes to the persistence of the state of erection of the penis. The erector penis, in antagonism to its naturally presupposed function, exerts no power over the erection of the genital organ. From its attachments, it may slightly compress the sheath and contents of the corpus cavernosum but it probably serves with its fellow, to maintain a firm and steady position of the organ when in a state of erection. The transverse perinoei muscle, through its insertion into the central tendinous point of the perineum, tends to assist the har- monious action of the other muscles by affording for them a fixed point of resistance. The compressor urethrce muscle, from its situation and action, is sometimes called the “ constrictor urethrce.” It encloses only the membranous portion of the urethral canal, and is principally in action during the expulsion of the last drops of urine and the ejaculation of semen. It exerts no influence upon erection of the penis and none in the ejaculation of the secretions of Cowper’s glands, whose ducts open anteriorly to it. It is a powerful ad- junct in the ejaculation of irritants, when injected into the ure- thral canal, in which act it is assisted by the involuntary muscular fibres of the urethral walls. In the female the sphincter vagince, which is analogous to the accelerator urinae muscle in the male, controls the external orifice