URINARY ORGANS. 558 The VESSELS of the kidney are derived from the renal artery and terminate in the renal vein ; but, as the circulation of the kid- ney has some points of special interest connected with it, a rapid enumeration of the parts, to which special names have been ap- plied, seems demanded. The renal artery first divides into four or five primary branches, and subsequently into as many subdivisions as there are columns of Bertin, into each of which two vessels enter. These vessels, at the base of each pyramid, join with their fellow of the opposite side, to form arterial arches over each pyramid. These arterial arches give off branches which ascend into the cortical portion of the kidney, and descending branches which sup- ply the pyramids with nutrition. Each ascending branch subdivides, along its entire course, into arteries, which go to the various Malpighian bodies, and which are called “ afferent vessels” Each afferent vessel forms, within the Malpighian body, an arterial tuft, called the “Malpighian tuft” The vessels of each Malpighian tuft again unite to form a single vessel called the “ efferent vessel.” The question of the arterial or venous character of the efferent vessel is not yet posi- tively decided. The efferent vessels of the various Malpighian tufts, after their escape from the capsule of Muller, immediately break up into a venous plexus upon the convoluted portions of the uriniferous tubes. From these venous plexuses, veins ascend to the surface of the kidney, where they form stellate plexuses, called the stars of Verheyen. The veins of the kidney return in the same general way as the arteries entered, and therefore comprise both descending and as- cending veins, which assist in forming venous arcades. These subsequently form the primary veins of the kidney, which unite to form the renal vein. The blood which is distributed to the kidney passes, therefore, through the following named vessels Before its exit from the organ. 1. Renal artery. 2. Primary branches of renal artery. 3. Arterial arcades (over the bases of the pyramids). 4. Ascending and descending branches. 5. Afferent arteries. 6. Malpighian tufts. 7. Efferent vessels.