542 ORGAN OF PHONA TION. Insertion. Into the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Nervous supply. The recurrent laryngeal nerve. Action. To constrict the superior aperture of the larynx during the second act of deglutition. Of these muscles, the arytenoideus and the thyro-epiglottideus are situated in the median line, while the other muscles are spread out upon those surfaces of the cartilages of the larynx which are not situated in the median line of the body. Ligaments. The ligaments of the larynx may be divided into two sets as follows : Extrinsic Ligaments. Intrinsic Ligaments. Thyro-hyoid membrane. Crico-thyroid membrane. Lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments. Hyo-epiglottic ligament. Crico-thyroid capsular ligaments. Posterior crico-arytenoid ligaments. Thyro-epiglottic ligament. Crico-arytenoid capsular ligaments. It will thus be perceived that the three extrinsic ligaments of the larynx connect the organ with the hyoid bone, and that the six intrinsic ligaments serve to bind the component parts of the organ together. The names which are applied to the various lig- aments indicate the parts which they connect. The lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments connect the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage to the hyoid bone. The thyro-hyoid membrane connects the upper border of the thyroid cartilage to the hyoid bone. The crico-thyroid membrane connects the inferior border of the thyroid cartilage with the cricoid cartilage. The capsular ligaments enclose the articulations between the thyroid and the cricoid cartilages on either side, and also the articulations between the cricoid cartilage and the two arytenoid cartilages. The posterior crico-arytenoid ligaments connect the bases of the arytenoid cartilages with the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage. The thyro-epiglottic ligament connects the apex of the epiglottis with the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage. The hyo-epiglottic ligament connects the anterior surface of the epiglottis with the upper border of the hyoid bone.