ANGI0L0GY. 4io The OBTURATOR ARTERY usually arises from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac artery. It has frequent abnormalities of origin, however, which are of great surgical importance, since in some cases the operation for strangulated femoral hernia is complicated by an inevitable wounding of this artery. In one, out of three and a half cases, it arises as a branch of the epigastric artery; in one out of seventy-two cases, it arises both from the in- ternal iliac and the epigastric arteries; while occasionally it arises from the external iliac artery. It is said to arise from the epigas- tric more frequently in females than in males. This artery passes through the obturator foramen, and subse- quently sends an articular branch to the hip-joint, which enters the joint through the cotyloid notch. It anastomoses with the circumflex and sciatic arteries. The sciatic artery is the largest of the two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac artery. It passes through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the pyrifor- mis muscle, and between the great sciatic nerve and the pudic vessels and nerve. It gives off the following branches. Muscular. Coccygeal. Inferior gluteal. Articular (to hip joint). Comes nervi ischiadici. The PUDIC ARTERY is the smallest of the two terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac artery. It descends in front of the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus of nerves, till it reaches the great sacro-sciatic foramen, through which it escapes in company with the pudic nerve. It then winds around the spine of the ischium and again enters the pelvis, in company with the pudic nerve, through the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. The guide to the pudic artery, as it passes over the spine of the ischium, consists of a line drawn from the posterior supe- rior spine of the ilium to the outer side of the tuberosity of the ischium; the junction of the middle and the lower thirds of this line will be found to lie directly over this artery. The pudic artery gives off six branches in the vicinity of the perineum, as follows: 'Inferior hemorrhoidal. Superficial perineal. t Dorsal artery of the penis. The inferior hemorrhoidal branches supply the lower part of the rectum and the anus, having previously crossed the ischio-rectal fossa.