THE SACRUM. 105 ridges and grooves are present, is called the lateral mass of the sacrum, and results from the blending together of the anterior portion of the transverse processes and the bodies of the five pieces of the sacrum. Posterior Surface. This surface of the sacrum is narrow, convex and uneven. In the median line, as the surface of the bone is examined, there is perceived, (1) Three or four tubercles, which represent the spinous processes of the blended vertebrae. (2) A longitudinal groove, on each side of the tubercles, which correspond to the articular pro- cesses of the vertebrae. (3) A series of indistinct tubercles, the lower two of which are blended together and form the sacral cor- nua, or horns of the sacrum, which articulate with similar cornua upon the coccyx. (4) Four posterior sacral foramina, which are smaller than those upon the anterior surface, and which transmit the posterior branches of the sacral nerves. The posterior sacral foramina are directly opposed to the anterior, and hence it is pos- sible for a pointed instrument to pass through both and wound the pelvic; viscera. (5) A series of eminences, often called the pos- terior transverse processes of the sacrum, and which correspond to similar eminences upon the anterior surface. The space contained between these latter named eminences and those tubercles in the median line is called the sacral groove, which is continuous, above, with the vertebral groove, and which gives origin to the erector spinae muscle. Lateral Surfaces. The lateral surface of the sacrum is broad, above, and gradually becomes narrower and narrower, as the lower extremity of the bone is approached. The upper portion is termed the auricular surface, from its resemblance to the auricle or pinna of the ear. This portion is covered with cartilage, and serves the purpose of articulation with the ilium. Posterior to the auricular surface, are several deep and rough depressions for the insertion of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. As the lateral surface becomes narrowed, a thin border is perceived, which affords attachment for the sacro-sciatic ligaments and for a few fibres of the gluteus maximus muscle, and which terminates in the inferior lateral angle of the sacrum. Below this angle is perceived a deep notch, which is occasionally transformed into a foramen by the articulation of the transverse process of the Coccyx with the sacrum. This foramen gives passage to the 5th sacral nerve.