THE HA SAL FOSSAE. 69 (6.) The inferior meatus of the nose, the largest of the three passages, lies in close proximity to the floor of the nasal fossa, being situated between it and the inferior turbinated bone. It presents the interior or nasal opening of the lacrymal or nasal duct, and the upper opening of the anterior palatine canal. Openings of the Nasal Fossae. Besides the anterior and the posterior openings of the nasal cavities, there are eight other openings in each fossa, which are shown in the following table: Each Nasal Fossa has eight openings, which are situated^ as follows: Total, 8 The frontal sinuses, which communicate with the nasal fossae, have an important relation to the operation of trephining for wounds of the frontal region. They do not exist in children, since the tables of the skull do not begin to separate until the age of puberty. The absence of marked prominences over the region of these sinuses does not necessarily indicate their small size, since the sinuses are often formed at the expense of the inner wall of the cranium. Animalculae and small insects have been known to obtain an entrance into the cavity of the frontal sin- uses, through the nose. The external aperture of the nose, in the living subject, lies on a lower plane than the floor of the nasal cavity, so that the nose must be pulled upwards, if a full view of the nasal cavity is to be obtained from in front. The inferior turbinated bone can be per- ceived only by dilating the ala of the nose. Since the cavity of the nasal fossa is narrower in the transverse diameter, even in the inferior meatus, than in the perpendicular direction, any instrument introduced to remove foreign growths of extraneous bodies should be opened in the longest axis of the inferior meatus. 1 Sphenoidal sinus. In the superior meatus (3) ■< Spheno-palatine foramen. In the middle meatus (3) In the inferior meatus w | ( Posterior ethmoidal cells. f Maxillary sinus, or antrum, j Anterior ethmoidal cells. Frontal sinus, through the infundi- bulum. Lower opening of the nasal duct. Naso-palatine canal.