ORGAN OF PHONA TION. 533 To its outer border, are attached the crico-arytenoideus muscle, and the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. This border affords articulation also for the inferior cornu of each ala of the thy- roid cartilage. The lower border is connected with the first ring of the trachea. The upper border affords attachment, in front and at its sides, to the crico-thyroid membrane and the crico-arytenoidei laterales muscles; and it also presents, at its posterior part, two oval facets for its articulation with the arytenoid cartilages. The cricoid cartilage is a valuable surgical guide to the air passage, since it is always perceptible even in fat necks. It cor- responds to the level of the lower border of the fifth cervical vertebra. It is also of surgical value, in affording a guide to the point of crossing of the omo-hyoid muscle over the common carotid artery, since a horizontal line drawn across the neck on a level with this cartilage will cross the line of the carotid at the same point. The ARYTENOID CARTILAGES are two in number and resemble in their form a truncated pyramid. They rest upon the posterior portion of the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, upon which they are capable of motion. Each cartilage presents for examination three surfaces, a base and an apex. The anterior surface affords attachment to the false vocal cord. The posterior surface affords attachment for the arytenoideus muscle. The internal surface is covered with mucous membrane and looks towards the corresponding surface of the opposite car- tilage. The base presents a smooth concave depression for articulation with the cricoid cartilage, and also two projections, which are called the anterior and posterior angles of the arytenoid cartilage. The anterior angle is long and pointed, and affords attach- ment for the true vocal cord and for the thyro-arytenoideus muscle. The posterior angle is short and rounded, and affords attachment for the crico-arytenoideus lateralis and the crico-arytenoideus pos- ticus muscles. The apex affords articulation for the cartilage of Santorini. The CORNICULA LARYNGIS or the CARTILAGES of SANTORINI are two small nodules of yellow elastic cartilage which articulate with the apices of the arytenoid cartilages.