472 NEUROLOGY, carotid filaments and the large petrosal branch of the facial nerve. The branches of distribution of Meckel’s ganglion are as follows: By its anterior palatine branch, to the hard palate and nares. By its posterior palatine branch, to the tonsils and soft palate. By its superior nasal branch, to the nares and antrum. By its naso-palatine branch, to the roof of the nose, the septum, and the hard palate. By its pterygo-palatine branch, to the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Otic Ganglion. This ganglion is situated on the inferior maxillary nerve, just below the foramen ovale. Its sensory root arises from the auriculo-temporal nerve. Its motor root arises from the internal pterygoid nerve. Its sympathetic root springs from a plexus on the middle men- ingeal artery. Its branches of distribution supply the tensor palati .and the tensor tympani muscles. SUBMAXILLARY GANGLION. This ganglion is situated between the gustatory nerve and the submaxillary gland. It is about the size of a pin’s head. Its sensory root arises from the gustatory nerve. Its motor root arises from the chorda tympani nerve. Its sympathetic root arises from a plexus around the facial artery. Its branches of distribution supply the submaxillary gland and its duct. The fifth nerve, before its division into branches, has devel- oped upon its sensory portion a swelling, called the Gasserian ganglion, which is crescentic in shape, and which is situated at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve passes, through the foramen rotundum, into the spheno-maxillary fossa, then into the infra-orbital canal, then through the infra orbital foramen, upon the face. It is thus divided into three distinct portions, from each of which branches are given off, as shown on page 466 of this work. The inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve joins, after its exit through the foramen ovale, with the motor root of that nerve, and thus becomes both a motor and a sensory ?ierve.