ORGAN OF SIGHT. 584 nasal duct. It lies in the lachrymal groove and is crossed, in front, by the tendo oculi, and behind, by the tensor tarsi muscle. The lower punctum lachrymalis is larger and more exter?ial than the upper, and the mouths of both are directed backwards so as to afford the most easy and direct access for the tears. In facial paralysis, cicatrices, or other conditions which tend to alter the direction of the mouths of these ducts, the tears no longer are assisted to flow in their proper channels, and they escape over the cheek. The tendo oculi, to which the cartilages and the muscles of the eyelids are attached, lies over the lachrymal sac, and, by being made tense during the shutting of the eyelids, is supposed to create alternating pressure upon the sac and thus to act as a pump to draw the tears into the nasal duct. The nasal duct is a membranous canal, three-quarters of an inch in length, and is contained within the osseous canal, formed by the superior maxillary, the lachrymal, and the inferior turbinated bones. Its lower orifice is partially closed by a fold of the mucous membrane of the nasal cavity. This canal is narrowest at its middle portion. Its lower opening is within the inferior meatus of the nasal cavity, and is situated about one-quarter of an inch behind the bony edge of the nose. THE EAR. The organ of hearing is composed of the following divisions. 1. The external ear. 2. The middle ear or tympanum. 3. The internal ear or labyrinth. External ear. The external ear consists of two distinct portions called the pinna or auricle, and the external auditory canal. The PINNA is composed of cartilage, and forms that projec- ting portion which assists in directing sound into the external auditory canal. Its surface is irregular in form, and certain names are applied to the various depressions and elevations upon it. The concha is the central depression which leads to the audi- tory canal. The tragus is a conical projection on its under surface, which is usually^covered with a few hairs. The anti-tragus is an eminence of smaller size, situated behind the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch called the m- cisura antitragica.