5oo NEUROLOGY. The aortic plexus, which is also formed largely by the solar plexus, but partly also from other sources, is situated in front of the aorta, between the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. The hypogastric plexus covers and lies between the two com- mon iliac arteries, and is in close relation with the promontory of the sacrum. The pelvic plexuses are two in number and are situated on either side of the rectum. They are formed by the hypogastric plexus, the sacral ganglia, and the first four sacral nerves. They assist in forming numerous small plexuses, which accompany the various branches of the internal iliac artery, and to which names have been applied, corresponding to the artery upon which the filament are distributed. The CORDS OF COMMUNICATION which exist between the various parts of the sympathetic system of nerves, may be divided into the following sets. 1. Those connecting the. ganglia of the cranium, as well as the prevertebralganglia, to the cranial nerves. 2. Those connecting the prevertebral ganglia with each other, thus forming the two grand cords of the sympa- thetic system, upon either side of the vertebral column. 3. Those connecting the various prevertebral ganglia to the spinal nerves, which are usually two for each ganglion. 4. Those connecting the prevertebral ganglia to the visceral ganglia. 5. Those connecting the various ganglia of the viscera with each other. The BRANCHES OF DISTRIBUTION of the sympathetic nerves pass, as a rule, through some of the above mentioned plexuses, and are then scattered among the various organs contained within the thoracic and the abdominal cavities, or are distributed to the various arteries of the trunk, the head and neck, the upper extremity, or the lower extremity. Among the more important nerves, which belong to the sym- pathetic system, may be mentioned the following. 1. The superior cardiac nerves. 2. The middle cardiac nerves. 3. The inferior cardiac nerves. 4. The great splanchnic nerve. 5. The lesser splanchnic nerve. 6. The small splanchnic nerve.