5S BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. III. Chopart’s operation consists in removing all the bones of the foot except two, viz., the os calcis and the astragalus; Hey’s, in removing all the bones of the foot except those of the tarsus. IV. All of the tarsal bones articulate with four bones with the following exception: Os calcis, with two bones. External Cuneiform, with six bones. TARSAL BONES. The seven bones entering into the formation of the tarsus have been previously enumerated under the description of the bones of the foot. Each one, however, presents certain points of interest, and each will therefore receive a special description. ASTRAGALUS. This bone may be recognized by a rounded head, a broad articular facet upon its convex surface, and two articular facets, separated by a deep groove, upon its concave surface. This bone is divisible into six surfaces, a superior, an inferior, an external, an internal, an anterior and a posterior. It articulates with four bones, viz., the tibia, the fibula, the os calcis and the scaphoid. OS CALCIS. This bone may be distinguished by its large size and oblong shape, also by a large and irregular portion which forms the head, and which is directed forwards, and by two articular portions upon its upper surface, which are separated by a deep groove. The os calcis posesses six surfaces, viz., a superior, an inferior, an external, and an internal, an anterior and a posterior. It articulates with two bones, viz., the astragalus and the cuboid. The os calcis affords attachment to eight muscles as follows : r The Os Calcis affords at- | tachment to eight mus--| cles, as follows: To the upper surf ace... .(i)-{ Extensor brevis digitorum. f Abductor pollicis. To the under surface.. ,(4)1 Fl«°r digitorum. J i Abductor minimi digiti. f Flexor accessorius. (Gastrocnemius. To tht posterior surface .(3) •< Plantaris. ( Soleus. The plantar fascia derives its attachment from the under sur- face of this bone. SCAPHOID. This bone is so called from its resemblance to a boat. It pos-