BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 144 named in numerical order from the external or radial side of the hand, 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, 5th. They are classed as long bones, and are divisible into a head, shaft and base. The head is directed towards the fingers while the base articulates with the carpal bones. The head is rounded at the extremity, and, at each side, is flattened for the insertion of strong ligaments. The shaft is prismoidal in shape and, on each side, is deeply marked for the attachment of the interossei muscles. The base is quadrilateral and roughened for the insertion of tendons and ligaments. It possesses three articular surfaces, one at each side for the adjoining metacarpal bones, and one at the extremity for articulation with the carpus. The metacarpal bone of the thumb is one third shorter than the rest; the articular surface of the head is less round, and the base has a single articular surface which joins the trapezium. The metacarpal bones of the different fingers may be thus dis- tinguished from each other: In the index finger, the base is very large and has four articular surfaces. In the middle finger, a projecting process exists upon the radial side of the base, and two small facets upon its ulnar lateral surface. In the ring finger, the base is small and square and possesses two small circular facets, which correspond with those of the middle metacarpal bone. In the little finger, the metacarpal bone has only one lateral articular surface. Articulations of the Metacarpal Bones. The metacarpal bones articulate,at their bases, as follows: ist Metacarpal bone, with one bone, 2ND Metacarpal bone, with three bones, 3RD Metacarpal bone, with one bone, \ Trapezium. ( Trapezium. •< Trapezoid. ( Os MAGNUM. -{ OS MAGNUM. 4th Metacarpal bone, with two bones, j 5tmetacarpa*l, 5th Metacarpal bone, with one bone, -{ Unciform. The head of each metacarpal bone articulates, however, with a phalanx. Muscles Attached to Metacarpal Bones. All the flexors and extensors of the wrist joint, with the ex- ception of the palmaris longus, are inserted into the base of a metacarpal bone.