579 STRUCTURE OF THE EYE. The anterior epithelial coating (two or three layers). The anterior elastic layer. The body of the cornea, (fifty or sixty layers of cells). The posterior elastic layer. The posterior epithelial coating, (one layer). The CHOROID coat of the eye is a vascular and pigmentary layer, which is continuous, in front, with the iris, the ciliary pro- cesses, the ciliary muscle, and the ligamentum pectinatum. This layer possesses a dark brown color, is thickest at its pos- terior portion, lies between the sclerotic and the retina, and allows of the passage of the vessels, which are distributed to the anterior portions of the eye. It is pierced by the optic nerve, at its pos- terior portion; and, on its outer surface, it is grooved for the vessels which it transmits, while, on its inner surface it is smooth and lies in contact with the retina. The choroid coat may be described as consisting of three dis- tinct layers, namely: The external or venous layer (layer of venae vorticosae). The middle or capillary layer (tunica Ruyschiana). The internal or pigmentary layer. The choroid coat of the eye is prolonged, in the anterior part of that organ, into a curtain-like expansion behind the iris, to which the name il ciliary processes ” is applied, since it presents numerous folds. These processes are similar in their structure to the choroid, but are less vascular. They are attached to the suspensory ligament of the lens, and to the adjacent portion of the retina. The IRIS is a perforated curtain, which prevents the entrance of light into the chamber of the eye, except through the opening within it, which is called the pupil. It is continuous, at its free edge, with the ciliary muscle, the ciliary processes, the choroid coat, and, by means of the ligamentum pectinatum, with the cornea and the sclerotic coat of the eye. A canal extends around the circumference of its attached border, which is called the sinus circular is iridis or the canal of Schlemm. The posterior surface of the iris is purple in color, and is called, from its resemblance to the inside portion of a grape skin, the uvea. The anterior surface of the iris varies in its color in different individuals, and is marked by wavy lines which converge. The iris is composed of a stroma formed by two sets of mus- cular fibres, the circular and the radiating set; and, in addition, some pigment cells, which give color to the pupil.