NEUROLOGY. 442 GANGLIA. The brain consists of twelve distinct ganglias, which may be enumerated as follows: {Cerebrum. Cerebellum. Medulla oblongata. f Olfactory bulbs (2). I Corpora striata (2). Nine smaller ganglia.. (9). ^ Optic thalami (2). Tubercula quadrigemina (2). — f Tuber annulare. Total, 12 The CEREBRUM fills the greater part of the cavity of the skull, excepting the posterior fossa which contains the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. It consists of two distinct lateral halves, called the hemispheres of the cerebrum, which are separated by a longitudinal fissure. This fissure contains one of the prolonga- tions or septa formed by the dura mater, called the falx cerebri. The anterior and middle portions of each hemisphere rest on the bony floor of the skull, while the posterior portion of each is sep- arated from the upper surface of the hemispheres of the cerebel- lum by a prolongation of the dura mater, called the tentorium cerebelli, which affords it support and prevents injury to the brain in case of concussion being transmitted to it through the spinal column. The cerebellum lies within the posterior fossa of the skull and is divided into two lateral hemispheres, which are connected by a median lobe. It is in relation, above, with the posterior portion of the cerebrum ; and, in front, with the medulla oblongata. The medulla oblongata is the upper enlarged part of the spinal cord. It is contained in the posterior fossa of the skull; lying upon the basilar groove of the occipital bone and situated ante- rior to the cerebellum and between its two hemispheres. The olfactory bulbs are connected with the hemispheres of the cerebrum by two bands, called the olfactory tracts; and are situ- ated upon either side of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. As their name indicates, they are the two ganglia of the special sense of smell, and are connected with the olfactory nerves. The corpora striata are two ganglia, situated within the sub- stance of the hemispheres of the cerebrum, one on either side; and which lie in front of the optic thalamus of each hemisphere- They are prominently seen upon the floor of each of the lateral ventricles of the brain. The optic thalami are two ganglia, placed within the substance