THE BRAIN AS A WHOLE. 46 GENERAL SUMMARY. The grey matter of the brain is arranged in two main divisions, occupying two different localities. These divisions comprise: First, the exterior convolutions, forming the cortex of the brain and spread out upon its surface; and, secondly, the interior cere- bral ganglia, situated at its base, and known as the corpus stria- tum and optic thalamus. The white matter, on the other hand, is derived from a con- tinuation of the longitudinal columns of the spinal cord, which pass upward through the medulla oblongata to the interior cerebral ganglia and then continue their course to terminate in the convo- lutions. In the cerebro-spinal system, counting from without inward, there are three principal deposits or centres of grey matter: 1st. Thz grey matter of the spinal cord, extending upward on the floor of the fourth ventricle, and around the aqueduct of Syl- vius, forming what is known as the grey matter of the medullary canal. 2d. The mterior cerebral ganglia at the base of the brain. 3d. The convolutions of the hemispheres. There are also three sets of fibres, forming the white sub- stance : 1st. The nerves and nerve-roots, connecting the external or- gans of the body with the grey matter of the medulla. 2d. The fibres connecting the grey matter of the medulla oblongata with the interior cerebral ganglia. 3d. Those uniting the interior cerebral ganglia with fat convo- lutions of the cortex. Of the nine ganglia, which have been named as the smaller ganglia of the brain, four are situated outside of the brain, viz., the two olfactory and the tubercula quadrigemina; and five within the substance of the brain, viz., the corpus striatum of either side, the optic thalamus of either side, and the tuber annul- are, which is located in the substance of the pons Varolii. The copora striata enter into the formation of the lateral ven- tricles ; the optic thalami enter into the formation of both the lateral and the third ventricles. The tubercula quadrigemina can be exposed, by separating the posterior lobe of the cerebrum from the cerebellum, when it will be seen at the point of junction of the two. The sinuses of the brain have already been considered in the chapter upon the venous system.