MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. 243 covering that opening, viz., the inter columnar fascia becomes spread out upon the hernial sac as a fifth covering, and the two layers of the superficial fascia of the abdomen and the skin com- plete the eight layers, which must be divided to reach the cavity of the sac. In direct inguinal hernia, the sac starts with the same two coverings, viz., the peritoneum and the sub-peritoneal tissue. Since it does not enter the internal ring, it receives the transversalis fascia, without any specially designated portion of that tissue, as was the case in the indirect variety. As it does not enter the inguinal canal, it does not recieve the cremaster muscle as a cov- ering, but it acquires in its place, as a fourth layer, the conjoined tendon which lies behind the external abdominal ring and thus protects this part which would otherwise be weak. The hernial protrusion now escapes from the external ring, acquiring, as the indirect variety did, the intercolumnar fascia for its fifth layer, and, with the two layers of the superficial fascia of the abdomen and its integument, the sum total of its coverings tallies with that of the indirect variety of hernia, viz., eight. In the FEMORAL REGION, the sac starts from the same original coverings, viz., the peritoneum and the sub-peritoneal tissue. At the femoral ring, it acquires, as a covering, the septum crurale which opposes its exit from the abdomen and which becomes ex- panded over the surface of the tumor as it passes through that opening. As it traverses the femoral canal, the tumor becomes invested with a fourth layer, viz., the crural sheath, in which the femoral vessels are enclosed. At the saphenous opening, the cribriform fascia, which encloses that orifice, is acquired as a fifth layer ; and the two external in- vestments which remain consist of one layer only of superficial fascia and the integument of the upper portion of the thigh. In recapitulation, we may then state that both forms of ingui- nal hernia have eight layers of investments to the sac, while in the femoral variety only seven layers exist, since the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the thigh is continuous with the cribriform fascia, by which the saphenous opening is enclosed.