MYOLOGY. 242 may assist the memory by representing through its five letters the prominent italicised parts, in their order. H. The Femoral Canal. This canal is one-half of an inch in lengthy and ex- tends from the femoral ring to the upper part of the saphenous opening, in the thigh. It has the following boundaries: In front. (3 structures)... Behind. (2 structures).... Externally. (2 structures). Internally. (4 structures). This canal is closed, at its upper opening, (the femoral ring) by a fibrous septum called the septum crurale, which is protruded, therefore, as a covering to all hernial tumors in this region; and, at its lower opening, this canal is also closed by a fascia, perforated by veins and called, for that reason, the cribriform fascia. Coverings of Inguinal and Femoral Hernia. In connection with the muscles of the abdomen, the various coverings in which hernial protrusions are encased may properly be considered. In the INGUINAL REGION, abnormal inguinal protusions of ab- dominal viscera or omentum may escape either indirectly, in which case they enter at the internal ring and pass through the whole length of the inguinal canal before they escape at the ex- ternal abdominal ring; or directly, in which case the abdominal walls are directly perforated behind the external abdominal ring, and, in consequence, the hernial protusion fails to enter either the internal ring or the inguinal canal. In both of these varieties, every hernial protusion starts with two coverings before it enters the abdominal wall. These two coverings are the peritoneum and the sub-serous connective tissue. When the indirect variety enters at the internal abdominal ring, it becomes invested with a third covering, viz., the infun- dibuliform process of the transversalis fascia, which is prolonged from this point around the cord and the testicle. Within the in- guinal canal, the cremaster muscle is next acquired as its fourth layer. As it escapes from the external abdominal ring, the fascia (Poupart’s ligament. < Fascia transversalis. ( Falciform process of tne fascia lata, j Iliac fascia. ( Pubic portion of fascia lata. Femoral vein. Femoral septum. f Fascia transversalis. (Iliac fascia. Gimbernat’s ligament. Deep crural arch.