ORGAN OF HEARING. 592 I* been described as pertaining chiefly to the inner wall of the ves- tibule. The fovea semi-elliptica is a small oval depression, whose trans- verse diameter is the longest, and which corresponds to the situa- tion of the utricle. It is perforated by small foramina, forming the so-called macula cribrosa, for the transmission of filaments of the utricular and ampullar branches of the vestibular nerve. The SEMI-CIRCULAR CANALS are three in number, and are situated posterior to, and above tire cavity of the vestibule. They are called the superior, the posterior, and the external canals. Each one lies at a right angle to the other two. The superior canal is directed vertically, and its axis lies at a right angle with the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The posterior canal is also directed vertically, but its axis lies parallel to the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The external canal is directed horizontally outwards and back- wards. Each canal presents a dilated extremity, called the ampulla, and the superior and posterior canals join with each other at their outer extremities, while the inner extremities of the superior and the posterior canals, and both extremities of the external canal open into the cavity of the vestibule. The ampullce of the three canals are all situated at that extrem- ity which opens into the vestibule. The horizontal or external canal has, however, only one ampulla, although both ends com- municate with the vestibule. The function of the semi-circular canals is not positively de- termined. By some, they are supposed to appreciate the direc- tion of sound, while by others, they are supposed to have some influence in maintaining equilibrium. The COCHLEA is an excavation in the substance of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, which resembles the interior of the shell of the snail, and which is situated in front of the vestibule. The bay looks inwards, and corresponds to the bottom of the internal auditory canal. It is pierced by numerous small fila- ments of the cochlear branch of the auditory nerve. The apex is directed forwards and outwards. It presents the following points of interest, to which special names have been applied. 1. The modiolus or central axis. 2. The spiral canal.