BONES OF THE HEAD. 26 their separation enclose and form the optic foramen for the pass- age of the optic nerve and the opthalmic artery. Pterygoid Processes of the Sphenoid. These processes consist of two thin plates of bone, which are joined together anteriorly and which enclose between them the pterygoid fossa. These two plates, by their separation, form a triangular notch below, which articulates with the pterygoid process of the palate bone. The pterygoid processes present for examination an anterior and a posterior surface, and an internal and external pterygoid plate. The posterior surface constitutes the pterygoid fossa which gives origin to the external pterygoid muscle. The upper portion of the anterior surface forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. It presents also the orifice of the Vidian canal, at about its point of junction with the body of the sphenoid bone. The external pterygoid plate is broad, thin, and inclined out- wards. It forms the inner wall of the zygomatic fossa, and the outer wall of the pterygoid fossa. It gives attachment to the internal and external pterygoid muscles. The internal pterygoid plate is long and narrow. Its outer surface forms the inner boundary of the pterygoid fossa, and its inner surface forms the outer boundary of the posterior nares. It presents at its apex the hamular process,which reflects the tendon of the tensor palati muscle, and, at its base, it presents the scaphoid fossa for the origin of the same muscle. Articulation of the Sphenoid Bone. The sphenoid bone articulates with 12 bones which may be thus classified : The Sphenoid bone articulates with Four single or Mesial bones. { Two of Cranium I Four pairs of bones. ■< ^ ( Two of the Face f Occipital. J Ethmoid. 1 Frontal. [Vomer, j Temporal. \ Parietal, j Malar. I Palate. Of these twelve bones, all the remaining bones of the cranium comprise seven, and the remaining five are bones of the face. Foramina of the Sphenoid Bone. The sphenoid bone presents 12 formina,which are arranged in six pairs. These formina transmit five of the twelve pairs of