290 MYOLOGY. ; and pronators in their action, while those on the posterior surface perform the functions of extension and supination. They may, however, be here enumerated under the following heads : J f The supinators. (2) A. Muscles acting upon the hand as J The pronators.. (2) a whole (10) I The flexors of the wrist, (3) [The extensors ' “ “ (3) B. Muscles acting on the fingers in common (3)] | The flexors / s j Sublimis digitorum. ' '( Profundus digitorum. 1 The extensor... (i)-{ Communis digitorum. I [ Thumb • (3) C. Extensors of special fingers (5) ' J Little finger..., ■ (1) 1 (index “ .... (1) D. Flexors of special fingers (i)-{ Flexor longus pollicis. E. Extensor of forearm • • • (i)-{ Anconeus. GENERAL NERVOUS DISTRIBUTION TO THE FOREARM. The nervous supply to the muscles of the forearm, considered as a whole, is as follows: To the anterior surface. .(8 muscles.) To the posterior surface (12 muscles.) The median nerve supplies 6^ muscles. The ulnar nerve supplies.... 1^ muscles. The interosseous nerve supplies. .. .9 muscles. The musculo-spiral nerve supplies.. .3 muscles. Total, 20 GENERAL SUMMARY OF THE MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM. All the flexors and extensors of the wrist are inserted into the base of a metacarpal bone, except the palmaris longus muscle. Of the twenty muscles of the forearm, all except one, the anconeus, act directly or indirectly upon the hand. Of these twenty muscles, fifteen cross the wrist joint, and the remaining five, the anconeus, 2 pronators and 2 supinators, are inserted into the bones of the forearm. Of these fifteen muscles which cross the wrist joint, six cross in front and nine cross pos- teriorly to the joint. The'position of the tendons is shown in the following table: The flexor tendons of the fingers and of the thumb pass, at the wrist joint, through a large synovial sheath, which is situated underneath the annular ligament and which extends upwards for a space of about one and a half inches in the forearm, and down- wards to the centre of the palm. This synovial sheath communi- cates with the separate sheaths of the thumb and the little finger but does not communicate with those of the other fingers.