BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 41 j The superficial perineal branch supplies the integu- ment of the scrotum and labia. The artery of the bulb supplies Cowper’s glands and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. The dorsal artery of the penis penetrates to the sus- pensory ligament and supplies the integument, glans penis, and prepuce. The ILIO-LU MBAR ARTERY arises from the posterior division of the internal iliac artery. It supplies the muscles of the lumbar and iliac regions. The LATERAL SACRAL ARTERIES are usually two in number. They supply, through the anterior sacral foramina, the contents of the spinal canal; and, after escaping through the posterior sac- ral foramina, the skin and muscles on the back of the sacrum. The GLUTEAL ARTERY is the largest branch of the internal iliac artery, and is a direct continuation of its posterior trunk. It passes through the great sacro-sciatic foramen above the pyrifor- mis muscle and supplies, by its superficial and deep branch, the glutei muscles and the integument over the sacrum. The surgical guide to the gluteal artery, at its point of escape, consists of a line drawn from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the upper border of the great trochanter of the femur, when that bone is rotated inwards ; the junction of the upper and the middle thirds of this line will be found to lie over this artery, as it emerges from the sciatic notch. Collateral Circulation. The principal agents in carrying on the circulation in the parts supplied by the internal iliac, after that artery be tied, would be (1) The anastomosis of the uterine and ovarian arteries. (2) The anastomosis between opposite vesical arteries. (3) The hemorrhoidal branches of the internal iliac with those from the inferior mesenteric. (4) The obturator artery, by means of its pubic branch, with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the epigastric and inter- nal circumflex. (5) The circumflex and perforating branches of the femoral, with the sciatic. (6) The gluteal with the posterior branches of the sacral ar- teries. (7) The ilio-lumbar with the last lumbar. (8) The lateral sacral with the middle sacral. (9) The circumflex iliac with the ilio-lumbar and gluteal.