URINARY ORGANS. 560 SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES. These are small crescentic bodies, of a yellowish-brown color, which lie upon the upper and front part of the kidney. They weigh about two drachms each. The left capsule is the largest and highest in its situation. They are ductless glands. They consist of a fibrous capsule, a striated cortical substance, an imperfectly developed medullary structure, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. They are supposed, by some, to be a part of the sympathetic system ; by others, to be a ductless gland only; and by Kolliker, to perform both functions, the medullary part being the nervous portion, and the cortical part the glandular. THE BLADDER. The bladder differs in its situation in the two sexes ; and also in its situation and its shape, whether it be distended or empty. In the male, when empty, it is deeply situated behind the pubes and in front of the rectum ; while, in the female, it lies in front of the uterus and the vagina. The shape of the bladder is conical in children, and reaches a higher point within the pelvis than in the adult; while the adult bladder is rounded in form, when moderately distended, and egg- shaped when fully distended. The male bladder, when distended, lifts the peritoneum for a distance of about two inches above the pubes, and thus affords a space where puncture or incision can be made without danger of injury to the peritoneum. The bladder presents for examination the following parts, namely : four surfaces, an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces, and an apex, a base, and a neck. The anterior surface is uncovered by peritoneum, and is in relation with the following structures. The pubes. The pubo-prostatic ligaments. The triangular ligament of the urethra. The anterior wall of the abdomen (in children and in adults, if distended). The posterior surface is separated, by the intestine, from the rectum, in the male, and, in the female, from the uterus. It is covered by peritoneum. The lateral surfaces are in relation with the following struc- tures :