36 BONES OF THE HEAD. (2.) The zygomatic process. This process first projects out- wards and subsequently curves forwards. It is broad and flattened in form and presents two borders (an upper and lower), two surfaces (outer and inner), an apex and a base. The upper border is thin and affords attachment to the temporal fascia. The lower border is thick and shorter than the upper, and affords attachment to the masseter muscle. The outer surface is convex in shape while the inner surface is concave. Ta the latter surface the masseter muscle is attached. The apex is serrated and articulates with the malar bone. The base is formed by three roots called the anterior, middle and posterior root of the zygoma. The an- terior root is broad and directed transversely across the skull at its base. It forms a bony eminence called the eminentia articularis, which lies in front of the articulation of the lower jaw. The middle root of the zygoma forms the posterior boundary of the glenoid fossa, while the posterior root of this process forms the point of origin of the tempo- ral ridge. (3.) The glenoid fossa. This is a depression of quite large size which is comprised between the anterior and the middle roots of the zygomatic process. It is divided into two parts, an anterior and a posterior, by a fissure called the Glaserian fissure, which affords a passage, (1) for the laxator tympani muscle, (2) for the tym- panic artery, and (3) for the processus gracilis of the malleus. A canal, called the canal of Huguier, is present in this portion of the bone, for the transmis- sion of the chorda tympani nerve. The anterior part of the glenoid fossa is articular, and is covered with cartilage which is also prolonged over the eminentia articularis. It receives the articular head of the lower jaw. The posterior part of the glenoid fossa is bounded behind by the vaginal process, and the auditory pro- cess (both of which belong to the petrous portion of the bone), and by Jhe middle root of the zygomatic process. It lodges the parotid gland and is not for the purpose of articulation.