JOINTS OF THE TARSUS. 197 The first connects the sides of the scaphoid and cuboid bones. The second connects the sides of the internal and middle cuneiform bones. The third connects the sides of the middle and external cuneiform bones. The fourth connects the external cuneiform bone to the cuboid. Articulation of the two rows of tarsal bones. Two arthrodial articulations are present between the two rows of the tarsus; the first of which exists between the astragalus and the scaphoid bones, and the second between the os calcis and the cuboid bone. The ligaments of these articulations are seven in number, and may be enumerated as follows : 1. The superior astragalo-scaphoid ligament, which connects the upper surfaces of the astragalus and the scap- hoid. 2. The superior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, which also connects the os calcis and cuboid bone, on their superior aspect. 3. The long calcaneo-cuboid ligament, which connects the under surface of the os calcis with the bases of the 2d, 3d, and 4th metatarsal bones. It is the longest ligament of the tarsus. It converts the groove, on the under surface of the cuboid bone, into a canal for the passage of the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. 4. The short calcaneo-cuboid ligament, which connects the under surfaces of the os calcis and the cuboid bones. This ligament is very broad and is lined by the syno- vial membrane which exists in the articulation between these bones. 5. The interosseous or internal calcaneo-cuboid ligament, which directly connects the os calcis and the cuboid bones. It is very broad and strong and is blended, at its origin, with the superior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. 6. The superior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which connects the os calcis with the outer side of the scaphoid bone. This ligament and the internal calcaneo-cuboid liga- ment arise from the same point, and by separating, in front, form a resemblance to the letter Y. 7. The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which connects the os calcis with the under surface of the scaphoid bone. This ligament is lined, upon its upper surface, by a