Il6 SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. Attached to the femur. (9 muscles.) The Descend- ing Set. (151 muscles.) Attached to the bones of the leg. (6 mus-" cles.) T o external aspect (4) Tensor vaginae femoris. Gluteus maximus. Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. To internal aspect (5) ' Iliacus. Pectineus. - Adductor longus. Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. {Sartorius, Rectus femoris. Gracilis. To posterior aspect f Biceps flexor cruris. (ham string mus-(3) •< Semitendinosus. cles.) ( Semi membranosus. The internal set (5 muscles) The external set (6 muscles) f Compressor urethra. Erector penis. J Transversus perinei. 1 Levator ani. ) forming floor of ( Coccygeus. f pelvis. ' Pyriformis. Gemellus superior. Obturator internus. Gemellus inferior. Obturator externus. Quadratus femoris. This arrangement of the muscles attached to the os innomin- atum, while it enables the student to recollect their names, serves also other purposes. I. Thus, the anterior group of the ascending set, arising from the upper and anterior borders of the os innominatum, are the identical muscles that form the antero-lateral wall of the abdomen, and, with one exception, consti- tutes the group of muscles connected with the ensi- form cartilage of the sternum. II. The descendmg set are the muscles that produce shortening of the limb when the neck of the femur is fractured. III. The external set are those that produce eversion of the foot, in the same accident. IV. The internal set are not only the muscles that form the floor of the pelvis, but are also those which guide the surgeon in operations on the perineum. V. The descending and external set, if taken together are the muscles which affect the movements of the lower ex- tremity on the pelvis. VI. By means of these two sets, we can deduce how many muscles must be divided in amputation at the hip joint. It is evident that the descending and external sets, as thus arranged, with the exception of one mus- cle, are the only ones that are divided; so that all we