INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 35 7 The situation of the middle meningeal artery corresponds to a point on the exterior surface of the skull situated one inch and a half behind, and one half inch above the external angular process of the frontal bone. The small meningeal branch enters the cranium through the foramen ovale. The inferior dental branch enters the inferior dental canal and is accompanied by a nerve of the same name. The four branches given off in the pterygoid portion of the ves- sel are distributed to the muscles of mastication. The alveolar branch, supplies the gums, some teeth in the upper jaw, and the antrum. The infra-orbital branch, accompanies the superior maxillary nerve, in its passage through the infra-orbital canal. The descending palatine branch enters the posterior palatine canal and subsequently supplies the hard palate, the gums and the palatine glands. It can be felt in the mouth on the inner side of the last molar tooth. The vidian branch passes through the vidian canal, and sup- plies the Eustachian tube, the pharynx and the tympanum. The pterygo-palatine branch, so called from the canal through which it passes, supplies the Eustachian tube and the pharynx. The nasal or spheno-palatine branch, so called from the fora- men of that name through which it passes, supplies the mucous membrane of the nose, the antrum and the sphenoidal and the ethmoidal cells. INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The internal carotid artery arises at the bifurcation of the common carotid artery, on a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and, after ascending through the neck, it passes through the carotid canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone, into the cavity of the cranium. During its passage through the neck, it lies in front of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. After its passage through the carotid canal, it ascends along the side of the sella turcica and curves upwards by the anterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone. It then pierces the dura mater and divides into its terminal branches. This vessel is remarkable for the number of abrupt curves that it presents in the different portions of its course. These curves are explained as an effort on the part of nature to offer a mechan-