TEMPORAL ARTERY. n f* r cends vertically between the internal carotid artery and the lat- eral wall of the pharynx, till it reaches the base of the skull. This artery gives off three sets of branches of distribution, as follows: 1st, those distributed to muscles and nerves, called the ex- ternal set, since they are directed outwards. 2nd, those distributed to the pharynx, which pass towards the median line of the body. 3rd, those distributed to the meninges of the brain, called the vertical set, since they pass upwards to reach the cav- ity of the cranium. The meningeal branches of this artery enter the cavity of the skull through the jugular foramen, the foramen lacerum basis cranii and the anterior condyloid foramen. They are distributed to the dura mater. TEMPORAL ARTERY. This artery is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the external carotid artery and appears to be its direct continuation upon the exterior surface of the skull. It arises slightly below the condyle of the lower jaw, in the substance of the parotid gland, and does not become superficial for the first inch of its course. This artery may be located on the exterior of the skull, at a distance of one and a quarter inches behind the external an- gular process of the frontal bone. It may be compressed at the point where it crosses the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. It gives off the following branches : Branches to the parotid gland. Branches to the masseter muscle. Branches to the temporo-maxillary articulation. The transverse facial artery. The middle temporal artery. The anterior auricular artery. The anterior temporal artery. The posterior temporal artery. The transverse facial branch runs forwards parallel with the parotid or Steno’s duct, and between it and the zygoma. There are five temporal arteries in the body, four of which in- clude the temporal artery and its three temporal branches, while the deep temporal artery is given off from the internal maxillary. The temporal artery has been tied to relieve excessive vas- cular supply of the orbit, eye, or meninges of the brain. It is sel-