ETHMOID BONE. 33 In the median line,near the point of junction of the vertical and the horizontal portions of the frontal bone, is perceived a small foramen called the foramen ccecum. This foramen is usually- completed by the articulation of the ethmoid bone with the fron- tal, but may occasionally exist independently of that bone. It transmits a small vein to the longitudinal sinus, and a prolonga- tion of the falx cerebri. Above this foramen lies a prominent ridge of bone, called the frontal crest, which is continued upwards into a vertical groove for the attachment of the falx cerebri, and which corresponds to the situation of the superior longitudinal sinus of the dura mater. On the lateral portions of this surface of the frontal bone are perceived impressions which correspond to the convolutions of the brain, and which are called the cerebral impressions, and, run- ning over the surface of the bone are seen numerous small grooves in which are lodged the branches of the anterior and the middle meningeal arteries. Angular Processes. The angular processes of the frontal bone are four in number, two of which are situated at the extreme ends of the bone, and are termed the external angular processes, while the remaining two are located at the centre of the face near to the inner angle of the orbital cavity, and are called the internal angular processes of the frontal bone. External Angular Processes. These processes are thick and strong, and afford articulation for the two malar bones. They also enter into the formation of the anterior part of the temporal ridge. Internal Angular Processes. These projections of the frontal bone are thin and afford a point of articulation for the lachrymal bones. They furthermore bound the so called nasal notch which affords articulation for the nasal bones, and the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. They also, by their point of junction, form a sharp long projection to which the name nasal spine is applied. Orbito-nasal or Horizontal Portion. This portion of the frontal bone comprises two orbital plates of bone, separated by a notch into which the ethmoid bone is re- ceived, and which for that reason is called the ethmoid notch.