THE HUMERUS. I29 The ARTICULAR SURFACE is longest in the trans- verse direction and is sloped obliquely so as to descend lower internally than externally. It is also more prominent, anteriorly to the condyles. It may be di- vided into a radial portion (called also the head) and an ulnar portion (called also the trochlear portion). The radial portion consists of a small rounded emi- nence situated on the front part of the bone. It is separated from the trochlear portion of the bone by a narrow groove for the inner border of the head of the radius, and, at its upper part, is a slight depression which receives the head of the radius when the fore- arm is flexed. The ulnar or trochlear portion occupies the anterior and posterior portions of the bone. The inner border descends lower than the outer, so that the axis around which the ulna rotates is directed downwards and in- wards. In front of the trochlea, is a depression called the coronoid fossa to receive the coronoid process of the ulna, during flexion of the forearm, and, behind the trochlea, a depression called the olecranon fossa to re- ceive the tip of the olecranon process of the ulna, dur- ing extension of the forearm. They are lined by the synovial membrane and are separated only by a thin plate of bone. Their margins afford attachment to the anterior and the posterior ligaments of the elbow joint. The INNER CONDYLE, of the humerus is situated a little lower than the outer and is more prominent. It affords attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the elbow joint and also to the following muscles, viz.; pronator radii teres, flexor carpi ulnaris, palmaris long- us, flexor sublimis digitorum and flexor carpi ulnaris. The EXTERNAL CONDYLE, of the humerus is situated higher than the inner. It affords attachment to the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint and also to the following muscles, viz.: extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, extensor mini- mi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and the supinator brevis. Shaft of Humerus. This portion of the bone is cylindrical above, while, below, it is prismatic and flattened from before back-