SUMMAR Y OF CRANIAL NER VES. 473 The auriculo-temporal nerve is pierced by the middle menin- geal artery. The FACIAL nerve, as is represented in the table of its branches, on page 467, pursues a very indirect course. It passes successively through the internal auditory canal, the aqueductus Fallopii, the stylo-mastoid foramen, and is then distributed upon the face. In each of these four portions, it gives off branches, some of which are of great importance. The facial nerve supplies all the mus- cles of expression. The large petrosal branch escapes into the cranium through the hiatus Fallopii; it then passes out of the skull, through the foramen lacerum medium ; then unites with filaments of the caro- tid plexus to become the Vidian nerve; and then passes through the Vidian canal to join with Meckel’s ganglion. The chorda tympani nerve passes first through a canal, parallel with the aqueductus Fallopii; it then enters the tympanum through the iter chordae posterius; then runs along the upper border of the drum membrane of the ear; then enters the iter chordae anterius, then passes through the canal of Huguier; then joins the gustatory nerve, between the two pterygoid muscles; and is subsequently distributed to the lingualis muscle and the submaxillary gland. By some authorities, the origin of this nerve is traced to a filament called the portio intermedia, or the nerve of Wrisberg. This nerve is now supposed to give to the gustatory nerve the power of appreciating taste, and for that reason is classed by some as a nerve of special sense. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve gives the sense of taste to the posterior third of the tongue. Its tympanic branch is called Jacobson s nerve and is distributed to the internal structures of the ear. This nerve has two ganglia developed upon it, one of which is called the ganglion of Andersch, and the other the jugular ganglion. The PNEUMOGASTRIC nerve, called also the vagus nerve, is one of the most important nerves in the human body-. In the neck, it bears an intimate relation to the internal and common carotid arteries and to the internal jugular vein ; by its laryngeal branches, it controls the muscles of voice ; by its cardiac branches, it exerts a powerful influence over the heart’s action ; by its pulmonary branches, it becomes the great excitory nerve of respiration; while, by its gastric and hepatic branches, it exerts some influ- ence upon the digestive functions. It has two ganglia upon it, one in, and one below the jugular foramen, which are called, re-