THE COCCYX. 107 Articulation. The sacrum articulates with two mesial bones (the 5th lumbar vertebra and the coccyx), and with one pair of bones (the ossa innominata), making a total of 4 bones. THE COCCYX. The coccyx or huckle bone, so called from its resemblance to a cuckoo’s beak, consists of four and sometimes of five bones, which are incomplete and. rudimentary vertebrae. These vertebrae are incomplete, since they are deficient in pedicles, laminae, and in spinous processes, as well as in a spinal canal and intervertebral foramina. They are also rudimentary, since the transverse and articular process are distinguishable in the first two, while the others are reduced to mere nodules of bone. The first segment of the coccyx occasionally exists as a sepa- rate piece and is by far the largest of the five segments. Its superior articular process is sometimes prolonged into cornua, which articulate with the sacrum and help to form a foramen for the 5th sacral nerve. The gradual diminution in the size of the pieces gives to the coccyx a triangular form, the base of which corresponds to the sacrum. The borders of the coccyx are narrow and give attachment, upon either side, to the sacro-sciatic ligaments and the coccygeus muscle. The apex of the coccyx is rounded and gives attachment to the tendon of the external sphincter ani muscle. Occasionally the apex of the coccyx is bifid and it may be deflected to one side. Muscles of the Coccyx. The coccyx affords attachment to 5 pairs of muscles, which may be thus classified: The Coccyx affords attachment to 5 muscles, as follows :... . f To the Posterior surface 2 i Glueeus Maximus. I 0 tne Postenor surface, 2 -j Extensor Coccygis. ■j To the anterior surface, 1 -{ Levator Ani. | To the margin or side, 1 -j Coccygeus. To the apex or tip, 1 Sphincter Ani. Centres of Ossification. The coccyx is developed by four centres of ossification, one for each piece of the bone. Articulations. The coccyx articulates with one bone, viz., the sacrum.