32 BONES OF THE HEAD. the ethmoid at about the end of the first year of life, and the lateral masses develop their full expanse of surface, through the formation of the ethmoidal cells, at about the sixth year of age. THE FRONTAL BONE. This bone is situated in the anterior portion of the cranium. * Its direction is both vertical and horizontal since it consists of two portions which form nearly a right angle with each other. The vertical part is called the frontal portion of the bone, and the horizontal part is termed the orbito-nasal portion. The frontal portion of this bone presents for examination, an exterior and interior surface, and two strong processes termed the external angular and internal angular processes. The orbito-nasal portion of the bone, presents for special ex- amination two orbital plates, and a notch between them called the ethmoidal notch. Frontal or Vertical Portion. Exterior Surface. This surface is convex in shape, and forms the forehead. It presents in the median line either an existing suture or a median depression which indicates the point of junction of the two lateral halves of this portion of the frontal bone. Ossification becomes complete in this region, a few years after birth, except in rare cases where the suture is not obliterated. Below this median suture is a prominent elevation of bone termed the nasal eminence. On either side of the median suture, are two round elevations of bone of quite large size, which are termed the frontal eminences. Above the upper margin of the orbital cavity, to which the name supra-orbital arch is applied, are perceived two prominent ridges of bone, which are produced by the projection forwards of that portion of the frontal bone, which covers the frontal sinuses. These ridges are called the super-ciliary ridges. At about the inner third of the supra-orbital arches, are per- ceived two notches for the transmission of the supra-orbital ves- sels, and the supra-orbital nerve. These notches are called the supra-orbital notches^or, in case a complete foramen exists in place of the notch, the opening is called the supra-orbital foramen. Interior Surface. This surface of the vertical portion of the frontal bone is concave and presents the following points of interest.