ARTHROLOGY OR SYNDESMOLOGY. !/ 4 the transverse processes of the lower of the two vertebrae, with which the head of each rib articulates. The ligaments of these joints are three in number, viz. : I. The posterior costo-transverse ligament, which extends from the apex of the transverse process of the vertebra to the outer part of the tubercle of the rib. II. The middle costo-transverse ligament, which connects the front of the transverse process of the vertebra to the posterior portion of the neck of the rib. III. The anterior costo-transverse ligament, which connects the lower border of the transverse process of that vertebra which lies above the rib, to the upper border of the neck of the rib below. Chondro- Sternal Articulation. These articulations are situated between the extremities of the costal-cartilages of the seven upper ribs, on either side, and the margins of the sternum. The first articulation is a synar- throdial joint, since it presents no synovial membrane, while the other six are arthrodial in character. The ligaments of these articulations are as follows : I. The capsular ligament, which blends with the anterior and posterior ligaments. II. The a7iterior chondro-sternal ligament, which connects the front of the sternum with the front of the co$tal-car- tilage. III. The posterior chondro-sternal ligament, which connects the back of the sternum to the back of the costal- cartilage. IV. The chondro-xiphoid ligament, which connects the xyphoid appendix to the front of the sixth or seventh costal- cartilage. An interarticular fibro-cartilage exists in the second articula- tion only and is attached between the manubrium and the gladi- olus, on the one hand, and the tip of the costal-cartilage, on the other. Chondro-Costal Articulation. These articulations exist between the outer extremity of each costal-cartilage and the depression on the outer end of the corres- ponding rib. These parts are bound together by the blending of the periosteum and the perichondrium. Chondro-Chondral Articulation. These articulations are formed by the joining together of the