532 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. The method of origin of the biliary ducts is a matter of uncer- tainty. The lymphatic vessels consist of a superficial and a deep set. They principally accompany the blood-vessels. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus and from the left pneumogastric and the right phrenic nerves. The substance of the liver may be said to consist principally of liver cells, arranged in groups, to which the name lobules is ap- plied. These lobules are connected together by connective tissue, blood-vessels, ducts, and lymphatics. Each lobule is polygonal in shape, on transverse section, and leaf-shaped, on perpendicu- lar section, and measures about one-twentieth of an inch in diam- eter. It consists of the following component parts : 1st. Liver cells. 2d. A plexus of lobular veins. 3d. The central or intra-lobular vein. 4th. A plexus of lymphatic vessels. 5th. A plexus of nerves. 6th. A plexus of bile ducts (possibly). The external bile ducts comprise the following parts which de- serve special consideration. 1st. The hepatic duct. 2d. The cystic duct. 3d. The ductus communis choledochus. 4th. The gall bladder. The hepatic duct is formed by the junction of the two large excretory ducts of the right and left lobes of the liver. It is con- tained between the two layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum. The cystic duct, the duct of the gall-bladder, is about one inch in length. It assists to form the ductus communis chole- dochus. The ductus communis choledochus is formed by the junction of the cystic and the hepatic ducts, and is about three inches in length. It descends between the head of the pancreas and the descending portion of the duodenum, and, after perforating the muscular coat of the intestine, it opens into the cavity of the duodenum at the summit of a small papilla upon its inner wall, at a point about three inches from the pyloric orifice of the stomach, and usually in common with the duct of the pancreas. The gall-bladder is a pear-shaped sac, intended as a reservoir for the bile. It is three or four inches in length, and is capable of containing from eight to twelve drachms. It lies in a fissure upon