THE TYMPANUM. ’ 537 5. The ridge of bone, which indicates the course of the aquae - ductus Fallopii, as it passes backwards and downwards. The POSTERIOR WALL presents the openings of the mastoid cells, which are contained within the mastoid process of the tem- poral bone. The ANTERIOR WALL presents four points of special interest as follows: 1. The internal opening of the Eustachian tube, which is situated near to the floor of the cavity. 2. The opening for the tensor tympani muscle, which is situated near to the roof of the cavity. 3. The anterior pyramid, which is a prominence of bone sur- rounding the opening for the tensor tympani muscle. 4. The processus cochleaformis, which is a thin plate of bone between the openings of the Eustachian tube and the canal of the tensor tympani muscle. The FLOOR corresponds to the jugular fossa of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and lies directly above it. It pre- sents a small opening, through which Jacobson’s nerve enters the tympanum. The ROOF is separated from the cranial cavity by a thin plate of bone, and corresponds to a depression on the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Bones of the Tympanum. The tympanum has, within its cavity, three small bones, which serve to connect the membrana tympani with the annular ligament which covers the opening of the fenestra ovalis, and thus to allow of the transmission of the sound impulse to the scala vestibuli of the internal ear or labyrinth. These three bones are called the malleus, the incus, and the stapes. The MALLEUS, so called from its resemblance to a hammer, is the most external bone and is connected to the membrana tympani by a process called the manubrium, which is inserted between the mucous and the fibrous coats of that membrane. It presents the following points of interest: A head. A neck. The manubrium. A processus gracilis. A processus brevis. The head articulates with the incus, and is connected to the roof of the tympanum by a suspensory ligament.