THE KIDNE Y. 555 upper pieces of the sternum, the internal mammary arteries and veins, and the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles. The posterior surface is concave, and rests upon the pericardi- um, the arch of the aorta, the left innominate vein, the four large arterial trunks given off from the upper portion of the transverse arch' of the aorta, and the anterior aspect of the trachea. The intimate structure of the thymus gland presents the fol- lowing points of interest. 1. The investing capsule. 2. The central cavity or reservoir. 4. The lobules. The capsule sends trabeculae into the substance of the gland, and invests its entire outer surface. The reservoir, the central cavity, is of large size, and pene- trates into the lobes and lobules of the gland. The lobules vary in size from a pin’s head to that of a pea, and are bound together by areolar tissue. They are divided into primary and secondary lobules, the latter of which are con- tained within the former, and, of necessity, are of smaller size. The arteries of the gland are derived from the following sources. 1. The internal mammary arteries. 2. The inferior thyroid arteries. 3. The superior thyroid arteries. 4. Occasional branches from the common carotid and subcla- vian arteries. The veins open into the left innominate vein, and into the thyroid veins. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric nerves and the sympathetic system. THE KIDNEY. The kidneys are two glandular organs, which are situated upon either side of the body, in the back part of the abdominal cavity. They extend from the nth rib to the level of the crest of the ilium, although the right kidney usually lies somewhat lower than the left, on account of the liver. The kidneys are each about four inches long, two inches broad and one inch in thickness. They each present for examination two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The anterior surface is in relation, upon the right side, with the right lobe of the liver, the descending duodenum, and the as-