TEMPORAL BONE. 3 7 Inner Surface. The inner surface of the squamous portion of the temporal bone is concave in its shape and presents marked cerebral im- pressions and grooves channelled in its substance for the protec- tion of the middle meningeal artery and its branches. Circumference. The circumference of the squamous portion of the temporal bone is very thin above and posteriorly, at which portions it is bevelled internally for articulation with the parietal bone. In front, the margin is thick and is slightly bevelled upon its external surface. It articulates, at this latter point, with the great wing of the sphenoid bone. B. Mastoid Portion. This portion of the temporal bone is so called from its resem- blance to a nipple. It is situated at the posterior part of the bone. Its outer sur- face is rough and perforated by numerous small foramina, one of which is of large size and is termed the mastoid foramen. It transmits a vein to the lateral sinus. The tip of this portion of the temporal bone is called the mastoid process. It affords attachment to three muscles; viz., the sterno-mastoid, the splenius capitis and the trachelo-mastoid. Upon the inner side of this process is perceived a deep groove called the digastric groove, which affords attachment to the pos- terior belly of the digastric muscle. Still further inwards a second groove, parallel to the digastric, is perceived, and to this the name occipital groove is given, since the occipital artery is lodged within it. The inner surface of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone forms a part of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull, and it is deeply grooved for the lateral sinus. The superior border of the mastoid portion is thick and serrated as is also the posterior border. The former articulates with the inferior angle of the parietal bone and the latter with the lower border of the occipital bone. C. Petrous Portion. The petrous portion of the temporal bone is so called from its extreme density (7rerpof,rock). It is pyramidal in form and is di- rected forwards and inwards, being wedged in between the sphen-