ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 516 palate, and which correspond, in their situation, to the angle of the jaw. They contain twelve or fifteen large spaces within their substance, from which smaller follicular depressions extend into the structure of the gland. These spaces and depressions are lined by a continuation of the mucous membrane and the epe- thelial layer of the throat. The tonsils are in close relation with the internal carotid and the ascending pharyngeal arteries. The TONGUE presents for examination a base, an apex, an upper surface or dorsum, and an under surface. The tongue is composed of a median fibrous septum, of a hyo- glossal membrane, of a mucous membrane, which is extremely thick upon its upper surface, of an extrinsic and an intrinsic set of muscles, and of vessels and nerves. The base of the tongue is attached to the hyoid bone, to the epiglottis, and, by means of muscles, to the soft palate and to the pharynx. The dorsum of the tongue contains three varieties of papillae, called the filiform papilla, the fungiform papilla, and the circum- vallate papilla, by which the special sense of taste is chiefly per- formed. The first set lie upon the sides of the tongue, the sec- ond set in the centre of the dorsum, while the third set are ar- ranged, in the form of a semi-circle, at the base of the tongue. These papillae are named from their peculiar shape and forma- tion. The under surface of the tongue is connected with the hyoid bone and the lower jaw. Its mucous membrane is reflected, over the floor of the mouth, to the inner surface of the gums, and, in front, forms a prominent fold, called the froenum lingua. The extrinsic muscles of the tongue comprise the stylo-glossus, the hyo-glossus, the genio-hyo-glossus, and the palato-glossus muscles. The intrinsic muscles of the tongue comprise the transverse lingual fibres, the superior lingual fibres, the inferior lingual fibres, and the perpendicular fibres of the organ. The glands of the tongue comprise two sets, namely, a follicu- lar set, which are aggregated upon the posterior third of the dor- sum of the tongue, and a racemose set, which lie upon the dor- sum, the sides, and the under surface of the tongue. Glands of the Mouth. The salivary glands are three in number, and are called the parotid, the submaxillary, and the sublingual glands. The parotid gland lies below and in front of the external ear,