393 BRACHIAL ARTERY. terior circumflex and is smaller in its size. It passes outwards and forwards under the coraco-brachialis and the inner head of the biceps muscle, and thus reaches the bicipital groove of the humerus. At this point, it usually divides into two branches, one of which passes upwards along the long head of the biceps muscle and is distributed to the shoulder joint and the head of the bone; while the other continues outwards in its original direc- tion, and, after supplying the deltoid muscle, anastomoses with the posterior circumflex and the acromio thoracic vessels. In the accompanying table is represented, in a tabulated form, the branches of the axillary artery which are given off in each of its three portions, as well as the more important sub-divisions of each. A Table of the Branches of the Axillary Artery. Axillary Artery. (7 branches.) 'In its 1 st portion..(2) Superior thoracic. Acromial thoracic. 1 SThoracica longa. Thoracica alaris. Subscapular. [ Acromial branches. •< Thoracic branches. ( Humeral branches. -{ Dorsalis scapulae. . In its 3rdportion.{2) Posterior circumflex. Anterior circumflex. Total, 7 BRACHIAL ARTERY. The brachial artery is a direct continuation of the axillary artery. It commences at the lower border of the tendons of the teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles, which form the posterior boundary of the axillary space; and divides into the radial and ulnar arteries at a point opposite the neck of the radius, which is situated about half an inch below the bend of the elbow. This artery runs in a groove on the inner and anterior aspects of the arm, and its course may be represented by a line drawn from the centre of the axillary space to a point midway between the condyles of the humerus. It is in relation with the inner borders of the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles ; and the latter muscle, whose outlines are very distinct upon the arm, is used as an anatomical guide to the artery. Relations. In front of this artery, the median nerve passes, at about the centre of its course; since this nerve crosses from the outer to the inner side of the vessel.