7 5 BASE OF THE SKULL. nares, and is slightly less than one inch in length. It presents in the median line of the bone, the two following points of interest. (i.) The pharyngeal spine, to which is attached the median raphe and the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. (2.) Two rough depressions, upon each side of the pharyngeal spine, for the attachment of the rectus capitis anticus major and the rectus capitis anticus minor muscles of the respective sides. D. The Quadrangular Spaces. These spaces at the base of the skull are formed by the under surface of the occipital bone, by the squamous and petrous por- tions of the temporal bone, and by the greater wingoi the sphen- oid bone. They are situated upon each side of the basilar pro- cess of the occipital bone, and are each bounded as follows. In front, by a line extending from the base of the pterygoid process to the root of the zygoma. Externally, by a line from the root of the zygoma to the mas- toid process. Behind, by a line from the mastoid process to the anterior extremity of the condyles of the occipital bone. Internally, by a line from the condyle to the base of the pterygoid process. Its four angles correspond, therefore, to the four following points, viz.: (1.) Condyle of the occipital bone. (2.) Base of the pterygoid process. (3.) Anterior root of the zygomatic process. (4.) Tip of the mastoid process. This quadrangular space is divided into two parts by an oblique line directed from before backwards and outwards. This line extends from the pterygoid process to the mastoid process, and, in its course, it includes the following points of interest which will here be simply enumerated, as their function has already been given in previous pages of this volume. (1.) The foramen lacerum medium. (2.) A roughened surface for the attachment of the levator palati and the tensor tympani muscles. (3.) The inferior orifice of the carotid canal. (4.) The vaginal process of the temporal bone. (5.) The styloid process of the temporal bone. (6.) The stylo-mastoid foramen.