THE ULNA. 135 a posterior, and an external border, and an anterior, a posterior, and an internal surface. The borders are best marked in the upper two-thirds of the shaft, and the surfaces are all three broader in the upper portion of the bone than in the lower. The anterior border extends from a ridge on the inner surface of the coronoid process to the front of the styloid process. It affords attachment for the flexor profundus digitorum and the pronator quadratus muscle. The posterior border extends from the lower and posterior portion of the olecranon to the back portion of the styloid process. It affords attachment, in its upper part, to the aponeurosis common to the flexor carpi ulnaris, the extensor carpi ulnaris and the flexor profundus.digitorum muscles. The external border divides into two branches, above, which form the boundaries of the lesser sigmoid cavity. It here embraces a roughened surface, for the attach- ment of the supinator brevis muscle. In its middle portion it is very prominent, and it here affords at- tachment to the interosseous ligament. The anterior surface is concave in its upper three- fourths, where it affords attachment for the flexor pro- fundus digitorum muscle, and, in its lower portion, it gives attachment to the pronator quadratus muscle. Upon this surface, at the junction of its upper and middle third, is perceived the opening of the nutrient canal of the ulna, which is directed upwards. The posterior surface presents, at its upper portion, a triangular surface, bounded externally by an oblique ridge. This triangular space affords attachment for the anconeus muscle, while the oblique ridge, forming its outer border, affords attachment for the supina- tor brevis muscle. Below this point the posterior sur- face of the shaft is divided by a vertical ridge, into an inner portion, which is very narrow, and an outer por- tion, which is broad, and which embraces the remainder of the surface. The narrow inner portion affords at- tachment to the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle, although in some instances it is merely covered by it, and the outer or broader part affords attachment, from above downwards, to the four following muscles, viz.: the