30 BONES OF THE HEAD. called the ethmoid cells. These cells may be divided into an an- terior and a posterior set. The lateral masses of the ethmoid present for special examina- tion the following six surfaces. An anterior surface, A posterior surface, An upper surface, An outer surface, An inner surface, An under surface. The anterior surface presents broken cells which are rendered complete by the articulations of the lachrymal bone and the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. The posterior surface, like the preceding surface, is character- ized by numerous half cells, which are rendered complete by the articulations of the sphenoidal turbinated bone and the orbital process of the palate bone. The upper surface of each lateral mass presents a number of half cells which are rendered complete by the articulation of the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone. Two grooves may also be here perceived which are rendered complete canals by articulation of the frontal bone, and are called the anterior and the posterior ethmoidal foramina. The under surface presents the projecting mass of bone termed the unciform process of the ethmoid. This process articulates with the inferior turbinated bone, and also assists in forming the inner wall of the antrum of Highmore. Upon this surface of the lateral mass of the ethmoid is also perceived, the inferior surface of the middle turbinated bone or process, as it is sometimes called. The inner surface of the lateral mass of the ethmoid forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossae. It presents from above downwards the following parts which have been specially named. (1) The superior turbinated process or bone. This is small in its size, and consists of a thin lamella of bone which lies in the posterior part of the nasal fossa. (2) The superior meatus. This canal opens anteriorly and communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells. (3) The middle turbinated process or bone. This consists of a convoluted plate of bone which ex- tends along the whole length of the lateral mass of the ethmoid.