419 THE PLANTAR ARTERIES. perineal artery, which anastomoses, at the outer side of the tar- sus, with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries. The muscular branches of the posterior tibial artery are dis- tributed to the soleus and the deep layer of muscles. The nutrient artery of the tibia is very large and runs towards the ankle. The internal calcanean branches supply the integument about the heel and the fat about the tendo Achillis. They are also dis- tributed to the muscles on the inner side of the sole of the foot. They are occasionally derived from the external plantar artery. PLANTAR ARTERIES. The plantar arteries are branches of bifurcation of the poste- rior tibial vessel. The INTERNAL PLANTAR artery is the smallest of the two, and ends, at the extremity of the first metacarpal bone, in a small branch which runs along the inner border at the great toe. The EXTERNAL PLANTAR artery passes at first outwards, and then forwards, upon the sole of the foot, as far as the base of the 5th metatarsal bone. It then turns obliquely inwards to the in- terval between the bases of the 1st and 2d metatarsal bone, where it joins with the communicating branch from the dorsalis pedis artery, and thus completes the plantar arch. The first portion of the course of the external plantar artery may be described, upon the sole of the foot, by a line drawn from the hollow behind the inner malleolus to the base of the 5th metatarsal bone; but, from this point, its course runs transversely across the sole of the foot, where it lies in relation with the bases of the metatarsal bones. Branches. The external plantar artery gives off two sets of branches, which comprise ten vessels as shown in the following table. External Plantar. (2 sets of branches.) 3 Posterior perforating. 7 Digital. 4 plantar interosseous branches. 3 anterior perforating. Total, 10 The posterior perforating branches pass through the back part of the three outer interosseous spaces, and anastomose with the dorsal interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery. The digital branches are divided into two sets, as is shown in the table above.