549 THE LUNG. border and comes in contact with the corresponding border of the opposite lung at about the middle of the sternum ; but, below that point, the two diverge and leave a portion of the pericardium exposed. The posterior border of the lung is more vertical in direction, and is longer than the anterior border. It differs also in being thicker and more rounded than the anterior. The base of each lung is broad, concave, and directed obliquely downwards and backwards. It is in relation with the diaphragm, and its circumference is received into the groove formed between the diaphragm aud the internal surface of the ribs. The base of the left lung descends lower in the thorax than that of the right lung, since the liver is situated upon the right side. The upper border of the liver, therefore, although it corresponds to the level of the ninth dorsal vertebra at its highest point, would still be wounded were any injury received in the anterior aspect of the chest, which caused perforation at the space between the sixth and seventh ribs, provided the intervening lung were like- wise perforated. The apex of each lung passes up into the root of the neck for about an inch above the first rib, where it lies in close relation with the first and second portions of the subclavian artery, and under the cover of the scaleni muscles. The ascent of the apex of the lung into the neck has a bear- ing upon the diagnosis of tuberculous disease, which usually is first developed in this region of the lung; and also upon the di- agnosis of injuries received at the root of the neck, since, if the lung be involved, a peculiar crackling sound, due to the infiltra- tion of air into the surrounding tissues, will often, be detected. The root of the lung is that portion where the bronchus, the pulmonary and bronchial vessels, the lymphatic vessels, and the nerves, derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic plexuses, are afforded a means of entrance into the lung. These parts are bound together by areolar tissue, and are enclosed in a pro- tective covering formed by the pleura. The following relations, between important structures, exist within the root of the lung and are deserving of special mention. A. From before, backwards. 1. The pulmonary veins, and the anterior pulmonary plexus. 2. The pulmonary artery. 3. The bronchus, with its vessels, lymphatics, and the posterior pulmonary plexus.