38 BONES OF THE HEAD. oid bone! and the basilar process of the occipital bone. It con- tains all the bony cavities of the ear within its interior and po- sesses therefore great anatomical importance. It presents for examination three surfaces, three borders, a base and an apex. Base of Petrous Portion. This is the only exposed part of the petrous portion, and is situated at the side of the cranium. It presents (i) an opening in it called the meatus auditor ius ext emus, which corresponds to the opening of the external cartilage of the ear, and (2) a bony ring which surrounds this opening called the auditory process, to which the external cartilage of the ear is attached. Apex of Petrous Portion. This part of the petrous' portion of the temporal bone lies at the base of the skull, and is the innermost part of the entire bone. It allows of the passage of the internal carotid canal and forms the posterior and outer boundaries of the foramen lacerum medium or foramen basis cranii. The petrous portion of the temporal bone is properly there- fore a truncated pyramid, its apex not finishing in a perfect point, and it is also, as regards its direction, a pyramid laid upon its side rather than one standing upon its base, since its apex points in- wards rather than upwards. Anterior Surface. This surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone forms the posterior boundary of the middle fossa of the base of the skull and presents the following points of anatomical interest. (1 ) The internal opening of the carotid canal, which transmits the carotid artery and the carotid plexus of the sym- pathetic system of nerves. (2.) The depression for the Gasserian ganglion of the 5th pair of cranial nerves. (3.) The hiaius Fallopii. This foramen transmits the large petrosal nerve, and the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery. (4.) The foramen for the small petrosal nerve, and occasionally a separate foramen for the petrosal branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. (5.) An eminence produced by the superior semi-circular canal of the internal ear.