MYOLOGY. 204 whole length of a muscle, like the plumes of a pen, the name penniform is applied. Examples of this type are present in the peronei muscles. If short fibres converge to both sides of a tendon, which extends for its wrhole length, the muscle is called bipenniform, as in the rectus femoris, while a muscle is said to be radiated, when its fibres converge from a broad, flat surface to a narrow tendinous insertion, as in the temporal muscle. The nomenclature of muscles is defective and often confusing. Muscles maybe named (i) from their situation ; as the peroneus, tibialis, etc. (2) From their form, as the trapezius, triangularis, del- toid, etc. (3) From their function, as flexors, extensors, pronators, abductors, levators, tensors, etc. (4) From their attachments, as the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, etc. (5) From their divisions, as the biceps, triceps, digastric, compiexus, etc. In all voluntary muscles and also in the muscular fibres of the heart, the primitive fasiculi present fine dark lines or strice run- ning transversely across the fibre in curved or parallel lines. Longitudinal striae are also detected, but these mark only the direction and number of the ultimate fibres or fibrillae. The striated variety of muscular fibre is present in all the vol- untary muscles, and also in those of the pharynx, the larynx, the upper half of the oesophagus, the heart, the walls of the venae cavae and the muscles of the ear. The unstriped or involuntary muscular fibres are found in the lower half of the oesophagus, and the whole of the remaining gastro-intestinal tract; in the trachea and the bronchi; in the gall bladder and the ductus communis choledochus ; in the pelvis and the calices of the kidney, the ureters, the bladder and the urethra ; in the female sexual organs, viz., the vagina, the clitoris, the uterus, the Fallopian tubes and the broad ligaments ; in the male sexual organs, viz., the penis, the urethra, the prostate gland, Cowper’s ducts, the vesiculae seminales, the vas deferens, the epididymis and the dartos; in the skin and mucous membranes ; in the ducts of certain glands, as in Wharton's and Cowper’s ducts; and finally in the walls of the arteries, veins and lym- phatics. The muscles may be divided for the sake of convenience of description, into the four following classes, as follows: A. Muscles of the Head and Neck. B. << “ TRUNK. C. u “ UPPER EXTREMITY. D. M “ LOWER EXTREMITY.