NEUROLOGY. 462 The weight of the brain averages about 49 ounces in the male, and about 44 ounces in the female, but it appears to bear a gen- eral relation to the intellectual capacity of the individual. The spaces between the convolutions of the brain substance are called sulci. The so-called grey matter of the convolutions is arranged in alternate layers of grey and white nerve tissue, which vary from four to six in number. The cells of the brain are usually characterized by prolongations from their bodies and are therefore termed polar cells. They are divided, however, into four classes, viz., apolar, monopolar, bipo- lar and multipolar, in accordance with the number of poles which they present. The ventricles of the brain-contain more or less fluid, which is called the ventricular fluid; and the general ventricular cavity of the brain communicates, through a hole in the floor of the fourth ventricle, with the cavity of the subarachnoidean space. The level of the base of the anterior portion of the cerebrum corresponds to a line drawn between two points situated just above the external angular processes of the frontal bone. The axis of the base of the brain in the anterior and middle fossce of the skull may be approximately represented by a line drawn from the external angular process of the frontal bone to the upper part of the external auditory meatus. The level of the posterior lobe of the cerebrum corresponds to a line drawn from the upper part of the external auditory meatus to the external occipital protuberance. THE SPINAL CORD. The spinal cord is sixteen and a half inches long, and extends from the upper border of the atlas to the lower border of the 1st lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in the cauda equina. It weighs one ounce and a half, when divested of its membranes. It presents two enlargements, situated in the cervical and the lum- bar regions, which are called the cervical and the lumbar en- largements. The spinal cord presents four columns, called the anterior, the lateral, the posterior, and the posterior-median columns; and five fissures, called the antero-median, the postero-median, the an- tero-lateral, the postero-lateral, and, in the cervical region, a fis- sure, described by Sappey, called the postero-intermediary fissure. The spinal cord gives origin to thirty-one pairs of nerves, each