SUMMARY OF CRANIAL NERVES. 471 The relations in the cavernous sinus will be found in the de- scription of that sinus, in the chapter upon the veins. In the sphenoidal fissure, the 4th nerve, and two branches of the ophthalmic pass above the external rectus muscle of the eye, viz., the frontal and lachrymal branches ; while four nerves pass between the two heads of that muscle, in the following order from above downwards ; viz., the superior division of the 3d nerve, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, the lower division of 3d and the 6th nerve. In the orbit, three nerves lie above the muscles in close contact with the periosteum, viz., the ones which pass above the external rectus muscle, in the sphenoidal fissure ; and the other four nerves lie in the same order from above downwards in the orbit, as they did between the two heads of that muscle. Each of the FIFTH PAIR of nerves after its exit from the skull, has connected with it four ganglia of the sympathetic system ; each of which receives a motor, a sensory, and a sympathetic nerve filament, and which gives off subsequent branches of distribution. These ganglia are called the ciliary ganglion (ophthalmic or len- ticular), the spheno-palatine or Meckel’s ganglion, the Otic gang- lion, and the submaxillary ganglion. The formation and distri- bution of each of these ganglia is as follows. Ciliary Ganglion. This ganglion is often called the ophthalmic ganglion, from its relation with the ophthalmic artery and nerve, and the lenticular ganglion, from its shape. It is the size of a pin’s head, and is situated at the back of the orbit, upon the outer side of the optic nerve. Its sensory root arises from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Its motor root arises from the third cranial nerve. Its sympathetic root arises from the cavernous plexus. Its branches are distributed to the ciliary muscle and the iris. Meckel’s Ganglion. This ganglion* called the spheno-palatine ganglion, is con- nected with the second division of the fifth pair of cranial nerves. It is situated in the spheno-maxillary fossa,and is of large size. Its sensory root arises from the superior maxillary nerve. Its motor root is derived from the Vidian nerve (by means of a branch of the facial). Its sympathetic root is derived from the carotid plexus. The two latter roots of Meckel’s ganglion are both conveyed to it by means of the Vidian nerve, which, in reality consists of