CSTEOLOGY OF THE HEAD. 17- OSTEOLOGY OF THE HEAD. The head is composed of two great divisions, viz.: The 8 bones entering into the formation of the cranium may be subdivided into 4 single or mesial bones and 2 pairs of bones, as is represented in the following tabular arrangement: The mesial or single bones are enumerated in this table in their order from behind forward and may be remembered by the initial letter of each, O. S. E. F., which bear some resemblance* to the old method of spelling Joseph. As explained in the introductory pages upon osteology, these bones, like all mesial bones, lie in the median plane of the body and articulate upon either side with • pairs of bones. It will thus be understood that when pairs of bones are spoken of, that one lies upon the right and one upon the left of the median plane of the body. The mesial bones are also often called symmetrical bones, since they are capable of being divided into two similar parts. In describing the bones of the cranium certain words will be encountered by the reader, the meaning of which deserve to be clearly understood before entering into the study of osteology. In anatomy the words external and internal are used to ex- press the relation of a bone or any separate structure, as a whole, to the mesial plane of the body. The words exterior and interior, when applied to a bone, are used to express the relation of the surfaces to the centre of the cavity which it contributes to form. This applies particularly to the skeleton of the cranium, thorax and pelvis. The words anterior and posterior, indicate the relation of any part to the ventral or dorsal plane of the body. The words superior and inferior, express the relation of any part to the central point of the body. The word beneath is applied to parts more distant from the surface. It must be constantly borne in mind that the words superior, inferior, anterior, posterior, above and below, have reference to Bones of the Cranium. Pairs of Bones (2) Total 8 Temporal. Parietal.