492 NEUROLOGY. SUMMARY OF THE NERVES OF THE SACRAL REGION. The SACRAL PLEXUS is seen, in the preceding tables, to be formed by the four upper sacral nerves, and, in addition, by the lumbo-sacral cord. It is triangular in shape and rests upon the pyriformis muscle. It is covered by the pelvic fascia and the two terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac artery. The lumbo-sacral cord, which by some is not included in the sacral plexus of nerves, gives origin to the superior gluteal nerve, which, for that reason, is occasionally omitted from the branches of the sacral plexus. The SUPERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE accompanies the gluteal ves- sels through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and in this situation, lies above the pyriformis muscle. Its branches are shown in a preceding table. The SMALL SCIATIC NERVE accompanies the sciatic vessels through the lower part of the great sacrosciatic foramen, and, in this situation, lies below the pyriformis muscle. Its distribution is given in the preceding table. The GREAT SCIATIC NERVE arises by five heads, viz., the lum- bo-sacral cord and the upper four sacral nerves, and is, in reality, a direct continuation of the sacral plexus. It is the largest nerve of the body, and escapes from the cavity of the pelvis, through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, where it lies on the outer side of the pudic vessels and nerve. It sends an articular branch to the hip- joint, supplies four muscles to the back of the thigh, and, by its terminal branches, supplies all the muscles of the leg and foot. The great sciatic nerve can be most easily felt at the fold oi the nates, by pressing between the great trochanter of the femur and the tuberosity of the ischium. The sitting posture of the body, therefore, if directed long towards one side, is liable to pro- duce numbness of the parts supplied by this nerve, on account of the pressure created upon the main nerve trunk. The PUDIC NERVE arises from the lower part of the sacral plexus and accompanies the pudic artery through both the greater sacrosciatic foramen and the lesser sacrosciatic foramen. Through the former it escapes from the cavity of the pelvis, and, through the latter, it again enters the cavity of the pelvis, having, between these two foramina, wound around the spine of the ischium. This peculiar course of the pudic artery and nerve has been ex-