VALVES OF THE HEART. 511 direction towards the attached margin of the valve, except at two narrow lunated spots, called lunulce, on each side of the nodule, where only the reduplicated endocardium exists, thus rendering the valve extremely thin at these points. During the passage of blood from the ventricles, during the systole of the heart, the segments of these valves disappear within recesses in the coats of the aorta and pulmonary artery, the sinuses of Valsalva, thus affording uninterrupted escape for the blood-current; but, during the diastole of the ventricle, when the current of blood in the large vessels is checked, and partly thrown back by their own elastic coats, these segments become immediately expanded and effec- tually close the orifice at the entrance to the tube. It is during the period of closure of the semilunar valves, that we are en- abled to perceive the function of the corpora Arantii and the thin lunated portion of each of the three segments. These segments when closely approximated, being circular in shape, would leave a central orifice were not the cartilaginous nodules so formed as to completely fill the empty space; while the thinned condition of the valve assists in a more perfect adap- tation of these cartilaginous nodules, than would be ensured were the valves rigid and unyielding. The segments of the semilunar valves differ from those of the mitral and tricuspid valves in the following respects. 1st. They possess from their form and large supply of fibrous tissue, an inherent rigidity and tenacity of shape, not present in the auriculo-ventricular valves. 2d. They open out of the ventricle and not into its cavity. 3d. They possess no chordce tendinece, being able to resist pres- sure without assistance. The semilunar valves of the aortic and pulmonary orifices also differ from each other in the following points of interest. 1st. The segments, composing the aortic valve, are thicker and stronger than those of the pulmonary valve. 2d. The lunuloe are more distmct in the aortic valve. 3d. The corpora Arantii are larger and more prominent in the aortic valve. 4th. The openmgs of the coronary arteries are in close relation with the aortic valves. 5th. The sinuses of Valsalva, in the aorta, (sinuses aortici) are deeper than those in the pulmonary artery, in order to accommodate the increased thickness of the segments of the aortic valve.