THE ANKLE-JOINT. 195 2. The posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament, which connects the back part of the external malleolus with the back part of the lower end of the tibia, and is similarly arranged to the anterior. 3. The interosseous ligament, which connects the con- tiguous rough surfaces of the tibia and the fibula, and which forms the chief bond of union between the bones. 4. The transverse ligament, which connects the back portion of the external malleolus with the back portion of the tibia, near to the internal malleolus. The synovial membrane of this joint is derived from that of the ankle-joint. The Ankle-Joint. This is a ginglymus articulation between the astragulus and the lower extremities of the tibia and the fibula. The two mal- leoli of these bones enter prominently into this articulation. The ligaments of this joint are four in number as follows: 1. The anterior ligament, which connects the tibia with the astragalus, by the margins of their articular surfaces. 2. The posterior ligament, the fibres of which are mainly transverse and which is continuous with the inferior posterior tibio-fibular ligament. 3. The internal lateral ligament, which is also called the deltoid ligament. This ligament consists of a superficial set of fibres, which connect the internal malleolus of the tibia with the inner part of the scaph- oid, the lesser process of the os calcis, the back part of the inner surface of the astragulus, and the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament; and a deep set of fibres which connect the apex of the internal malleolus of the tibia with the inner surface of the astragalus. 4. The external lateral ligament. This ligament consists of three separate fasiculi, as follows: The anterior fasciculus, which connects the external malleolus with the astragalus, in front of its articular facet. The middle fasciculus, which connects the apex of the external malleolus with the outer surface of the os calcis. The posterior fasciculus, which connects the back part of the external malleolus with the astragalus, behind its external articular facet.