394 ANGIOLOGY. Behind the artery, the superior profunda branch takes its origin and the musculo-spiral nerve is in intimate relation. On the inner side of the artery, the internal cutaneous nerve and the basilic vein are in relation, for the greater portion of its course; while, in its upper part, the idnar nerve is in close re- lation, and, in its lower part, the median nerve is also in close contact. On the outer side of the artery, the humerus is in close relation, as well as the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles. At the bend of the elbow, the brachial artery has relations in front, with the median basilic vein, the anterior branches of the internal cutaneous nerve and the bicipital fascia. Behind the vessel, the elbow joint and the brachialis anticus muscle are per- ceived. On the inner side of the artery, the pronator radii teres muscle and the median nerve are present; while on the outer side of the artery, the tendon of the biceps, the supinator longus, and the musculo-cutaneous and the musculo-spiral nerves are present. The brachial artery can be most effectually compressed at about its centre, since it lies in close relation to the tendon of the coraco-brachialis muscle at this point. The relations of the brachial artery, at the bend of the elbow, are frequently designated, to assist the memory of students, by the three letters T. A. N., which represent, from without inwards, the following parts, viz., i. Tendon of biceps. 2. Artery. 3. Median nerve. Branches. The branches of the brachial artery, including the two ter- minal branches, are seven in number as enumerated in the fol- lowing table: A Table of the Branches of the Brachial Artery. Muscular (coraco-brachialis, biceps, brachialis anticus.) Nutrient branch to humerus. Superior profunda. Inferior profunda. Anastomotica magna. Radial ! j Terminal branches. The muscular branches are irregular in their number and point of origin, and are distributed to the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus muscles. The nutrient artery supplies the humerus with blood and Brachial Artery. (7 branches.)