228 MYOLOGY. larynx, thus closing the superior opening of the larynx and pre- venting the entrance of food into its interior. The prevertebralgroup of muscles flex the head, by the action of the recti capitis antici muscles; they also flex the cervical portion of the spinal column, by means of the longi colli muscles, and they rotate the head upon the spinal axis, when the recti capitis antici and laterales are in action. The spinal column, in the cervical region, may be also bent to one side and flexed, when the three scaleni muscles of either side act independently, provided the trunk be a fixed point, or they may assist in preserving it in an erect posture when acting in unison. These muscles however become, during\ inspiration, powerful elevators of the first and second ribs, as in this case, the spinal column becomes the fixed point of resistance, and the thorax is therefore acted upon. The posterior cervical group of muscles serve mainly the pur- pose of controlling the erect position of the upper portion of the spine and maintaining the poise of the head. With the excep- tion of the rectus capitis major and the inferior oblique muscles, which produce rotation of the head, the others either tend to incline the head to one side, when acting singly, or to draw it backwards, when the pairs act simultaneously. We may say then in summary of the muscles acting upon the head, or upon the cervical portion of the spinal column and thus indirectly affecting the head, that, each pair of muscles produce a different effect when acting singly or in unison. Thus the head may be simply inclined to one side by the pla- tysma, sterno-mastoid, splenius, complexus, and the scaleni, when acting singly, or flexion or extension of the head will be produced, if the muscles act in pairs. The head may be flexed upon the neck by the recti capitis antici majores and minores, and the chin approximated to the chest by the longi colli and sterno-mastoid muscles, which cause flexion of the cervical portion of the spine ; but to accomplish these effects the muscles of each side must contract simultane- ously. The muscles included in the supra and infra-hyoid groups may also greatly assist in flexion of the cervical portion of the spine. The head may be rotated by the movements of the atlas upon the axis, produced chiefly by the action of the recti capitis antici and laterales, the recti capitis postici majores and the obliqui su- periores, althoug others muscles may produce rotation of the head as an indirect rather than a direct effect of their contraction. The head is drawn backwards by the simultaneous action of the following pairs of muscles, viz., the recti capiti postici majores