ANGI0L0GY. 390 The thoracic branches of the axillary artery and their accom- panying veins lie close to the pectoral muscles, which form the anterior wall of the space, and the long thoracic artery runs close to the lower border of that muscle. In the back part of the space, in contact with the lower por- tion of the subscapularis muscle, lie the subscapular artery and vein ; and the three subscapular nerves are distributed to the mus- cles of this locality. Winding around the lower border of this muscle, the dorsalis-scapulce artery (a branch of the subscapular) and its accompanying vein can be perceived; and, at the outer extremity of the muscle near the shoulder joint, the posterior cir- cumflex artery and vein and the circumflex nerve curve backwards towards the shoulder. Upon the inner or thoracic side of the axilla no large vessels exist, but the posterior thoracic and the intercosto-humeral nerves can be here detected. The former of these nerves supplies the serratus magnus muscle and is often called the “ external re- spiratory nerve of Bell,” since it lies external to the chest and affects inspiration, and was so named by Bell in consequence. The intercosto-humeral nerve is a branch of the second inter- costal nerve which crosses the axillary space and descends along the inner side of the arm, to join the lesser internal cutaneous nerve. BRANCHES OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. The branches of the axillary artery are seven in number, two of which are given off from the first portion of the vessel, two from the second portion, and three from the third portion. These branches are as follows : From Ist portion (2) j Superior thoracic. r v ' ( Acromial thoracic. FromW^»....(2)|“k;nS; {Subscapular. Anterior circumflex. Posterior circumflex. Total, 7 We thus have four branches (those arising from the first and second portions of the artery) which are distributed to the mus- cles of the external aspect of the chest; one large branch (the subscapular) to the muscles of the shoulder; and two smaller ves- sels (the circumflex) which supply the shoulder joint and the upper portion of the arm.