24 BONES OF THE HEAD. (2.) The vaginal processes. These processes of bone are situated on each side of the rostrum. They articulate with the alae of the vomer. (3.) The pterygo-palatine grooves. These grooves are situated externally to the vaginal processes of the sphenoid. They form, by their articu- lation with the sphenoidal processes of the palate bones, the so-called pterygo-palatine canals, which transmit the pterygo-palatine artery and the pterygo- palatine nerves. Posterior Surface. This surface of the body of the sphenoid bone articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone, and becomes ossified to it at the age of eighteen or twenty. It is quadrilateral in form. Greater Wings of the Sphenoid. The greater wings of the sphenoid bone are large irregular shaped masses which can only be thoroughly described by division into the following parts : (1.) A superior or cerebral surface. (2.) An external surface. (3.) An anterior or orbital surface. (4.) A circumference. The superior or cerebral surface, forms a part of the middle fossa at the base of the skull. It presents for examination four foramina, which allow of the exit of nerves from, or the entrance of vessels to the cavity of the cranium. These foramina may be thus enumerated from before backwards: (1.) The foramen rotundum which transmitsSuperior maxillary nerve. {Inferior maxillary nerve. Small petrosal nerve. Small meningeal artery. (3.) The foramen Vesalii “ “ -{A small vein. (4.) The foramen spinosum “ “ -{ Middle meningeal artery. The external surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid bone is divided by a bony ridge called the pterygoid ridge into a su- perior and an inferior portion. The superior portion assists in the formation of* the temporal fossa. The inferior portion assists in forming the zygomatic fossa, and at its posterior portion it presents a bony promin- ence, called the spine of the sphenoid, which affords at- tachment for the«internal lateral ligament of the jaw and also for the laxator tympani muscle.