II7 THE PEL VIS IN GENERAL. have to do is to add the descending set (15) to the ex- ternal set (6), and we get 21 muscles, By adding the psoas magnus, which does not arise from the os inno- minatum, we obtain 22, the number divided in this amputation. The Pelvis in General. The pelvis is usually divided for convenience of description into the false and the true pelvis and includes a bony canal which is formed by the four bones previously mentioned. The FALSE PELVIS comprises that superior expanded portion of the ring which corresponds to the iliac fossae. Its walls are deficient, in front, between the anterior borders of the ilia and the horizontal rami of the pubes, and deficient also, behind, between the posterior superior iliac spines and the sacrum. The TRUE PELVIS comprised the inferior or constricted portion of the ring and presents for examination, (1) . A brim or inlet. (2) A cavity. (3) A lower opening or outlet. The BRIM or the superior circumference of the true pelvis is heart-shaped. It is bounded, in front, by the crest and the spine of the pubes, behind, by the anterior border of the base of the sacrum and by the sacro-vertebral angle, and, laterally, by the ilio- pectineal line. The plane of this opening looks upwards and for- wards. Its axis is represented by a line drawn from the umbili- cus to the middle bone of the coccyx, and, in an erect posture of the body, this axis forms an angle of from 6o° to 65Q with the horizontal plane, since the base of the sacrum lies about 3f inches above the upper border of the symphysis pubis. The diameters of this opening vary in the male and female pelvis, the male pelvis being the smaller by about one-half an inch in each of the diame- ters usually recorded. The CAVITY of the true pelvis consists of a short curved canal which connects the superior and inferior openings. It is shallow in front, and here measures from i-J- to 2 inches in height. At its middle portion, it is the broadest, and, at its posterior portion, it is very deep, since it runs along the concavity of the sacrum and of the coccyx, and here measures from 4\ to 5^ inches, in the male sex. The antero-posterior, lateral and oblique diameters of the cav- ity of the true pelvis of the male are the same, and average about inches in length. The lower circumference or OUTLET of the true pelvis is