556 THE URINAR Y ORGAN'S. cending colon; while, upon the left side,, it is in relation with the tail of the pancreas, the descending colon, and the lower portion of the spleen. This surface is convex, and is covered in part by peritoneum. The posterior surface is flat, and is in relation with the crus of the diaphragm, the nth and 12th ribs, the psoas magnus muscle, the aponeurosis of the transversalis, and the quadratus lum- borum muscle. This surface is not covered with peritoneum. The superior extremity is the largest and the thickest of the two extremities of the organ, is directed inwards, and is capped by the suprarenal capsule. The inferior extremity is small, flattened in shape and is directed outwards. It corresponds nearly with the crest of the ilium. The outer border is convex, and is directed outwards and * backwards. The inner border is concave, is directed forwards and down- wards, and is marked by a depression or fissure, called the hilum of the kidney, which leads into the cavity of the organ and which gives passage, from before backwards, to the renal vein, the renal artery, and the ureter. The kidney is enveloped in a fibrous capsule, which is thin, smooth, and firm, and which is loosely connected with the sub- stance of the organ. On a longitudinal section of the organ being made, the kidney is perceived to consist of two portions, which differ in their color, appearance, and general structure. The inner portion, which is called the medullary portion of the kidney, is arranged in the form of pyramids, from eight to eighteen in number, whose bases are directed towards the surface of the organ and whose apices are directed inwards and terminate as little projections, to which the name papillae is applied, into the cavity of the kidney. This portion of the kidney is dark in color, striated in appear- ance, and of dense consistence ; and is formed by the straight uriniferous tubes, (the tubes of Bellini), and by looped uriniferous tubes, (the tubes of Henle). Each of the large pyramids of the medullary substance is called a 11 pyramid of Malpighi,” and, as before stated, these pyramids vary from eight to eighteen to each kidney. The outer portion of the kidney, which comprises about three- fourths of the ^ntire organ, is termed the cortical substance of the kidney. It is soft in consistence, reddish in color, and granular in