THE EXTERNAL EAR. 585 The helix is the external curved margin of the cartilage of the ear. The fossa of the helix is the groove which lies underneath the helix, throughout nearly its whole extent. The antihelix is a prominence upon the cartilage of the ear which lies nearly parallel with the helix. It forms the posterior boundary of the central depression or concha, and, at its upper portion, it bifurcates to form a depression called the fossa. The fossa of the antihelix is bounded by the bifurcation of the antihelix, and also in front by the helix. The lobule of the ear is the soft pendulous portion, which hangs from the lower part of the cartilage of the ear. The cartilage which composes the pinna is not an entire struc- ture, but is deficient in some places, where it is joined together by ligaments. The cartilage, as a whole, is also united to the skull by certain ligaments, which are called the extrinsic ligaments of the pinna, in contra-distinction to the ligaments which connect the separate parts of the cartilage, which are called the intrinsic ligaments of the pinna. The muscles of the pinna are also divided into an intrinsic and an extrinsic set, since some act upon only parts of the cartilage, while others act upon the whole pinna. The integument which covers the cartilage of the pinna is very closely adherent and is richly supplied with sebaceous glands, es- pecially in the regions of the concha and the fossa of the helix. It is also supplied with vessels and nerves. The EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL is that portion of the exter- nal ear, which extends from the concha inwards to the membrana tympani of the ear. It is one and a quarter inches in length, and is directed differently in different portions of its course. If the pinna be drawn upwards and backwards, however, the canal will be rendered more nearly straight. Its floor is longer than its roof on account of the obliquity of the membrana tympani. This canal is usually divided into a cartilaginous and a bony portion, the former of which is a continuation of the pinna, and the latter is comprised within the temporal bone. The cartilagmous portion is about one-half of an inch, in length, and is firmly attached to the circumference of the external auditory meatus in the temporal bone. At the upper and back part of the canal, the cartilage is absent and is replaced by fibrous tissue. The osseous portion is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and, at its outer extremity, is expanded into a rough margin for the attachment of the pinna.