COSTAL CARTILAGES. 97 The inner or under surface presents a short and slight groove. The tubercle and the angle are close together. Tenth Rib. The head of this rib has only a single articular facet. Eleventh Rib. This rib has no neck, no tuberosity and but a single articular facet upon its head. Twelfth Rib. This rib has no neck, no angle, no tuberosity, no groove. Its head has but a single articular facet. Costal Cartilages. The costal cartilages (from costa—a keeper—because they are the guardians of the organs of the chest) compose about one- fifth of the entire circumference of the chest, the ribs, sternum and the vertebrae forming the remaining four-fifths of the circum- ference. They are 12 in number on each side and are arranged as follows: The first seven connect the corresponding true ribs to the sternum. The next three do not connect with the sternum but are joined to the cartilage of the rib next above. The last two are not attached in front. The costal cartilages decrease in breadth from the first to the last as do the spaces between the ribs. They increase in length from the first to the seventh costal car- tilage and they diminish from the eighth to the twelfth. The direction of the costal cartilages also varies in the different portions of the thorax. The first cartilage is directed obliquely downwards, the second cartilage lies horizontally, the third is di- rected slightly upwards, the last two cartilages follow the direc- tion of the ribs to which they are attached, while all the remaining cartilages follow the direction of the ribs for a short distance and then ascend more and more obliquely either to join the sternum or the costal cartilage next above it. The costal cartilages all taper towards their sternal end except- ing the first and the second. The sixth, seventh, eighth and the ninth are enlarged at their points of articulation with each other. The costal cartilages present the following parts of interest: (1.) Anterior surfaces. These are convex in shape, and looks upwards and for- wards.