VA RIE TIES OF AR TICULA TIONS. j 69 Suture means union of bone by a series of processes and indentations, which fit into each other. It is often divided as follows: Sutura dentata, where the interlocking processes are large and extensive, as in the sagittal and lam- bdoidal sutures. Sutura serrata, where the interlocking processes are smaller and more regularly distributed, as in the temporary suture of the frontal bone. Sutura limbosa, where the articular surfaces are bev- elled, and one overlaps the other, as in the fronto- parietal suture, Harmonia means a mere apposition of two rough bony sur- faces, as is found between the two halves of the upper jaw and in the temporo-parietal suture. Schindylesis means the insertion of a thin plate of bone into a £left, formed by the separation of the two plates of another bone, as is perceived in the articulation of the rostrum of the sphenoid bone with the vomer. Gomphosis means the implantation of one bone into a process of another bone, of which the teeth, by their insertion into the alveolar process of the jaws, afford examples. Enarthrosis means the articulation of a globular head of a long bone into a cup-shaped cavity. It is also called^ the ball-and-socket joint, and an example of it is af- forded in the articulation of the femur at the hip. Arthrodia comprises all articulations of surfaces which are flat or nearly so. It admits of only a gliding movement, which movement is never extensive. An example of this form of articulation is afforded where the acromion process of the scapula joins with the clavicle. Ginglymus, or hinge-joint, includes all joints which admit of either an angular, a lateral, or a rotary motion. By some anatomists, the latter form of articulation is called diarthrosis rotatorius. Examples of the gingly- mus form of articulation are present in the knee, ankle, elbow, in the articulation of the head of the radius and the ulna, and in the articulation of the atlas with the axis. Joints admit of seven varieties of motion, viz. .• 1. Flexion. 2. Extension. 3. Adduction,