495 NERVES OF LEG AND FOOT. SUMMARY OF THE NERVES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. The nerves of the leg and foot are indirectly derived from the great sciatic nerve; since its two terminal branches supply these regions, by the aid of numerous branches of their own, to which special names have been applied. The EXTERAL POPLITEAL or PERONEAL NERVE is the smaller of the two terminal branches of the great sciatic nerve, but, since it passes along the outer side of the popliteal space, it bears no special relation to the popliteal artery. It divides into the anterior tibial and the musculo-cutaneous nerves, about one inch below the head of the fibula. From its close relation with the biceps muscle it is liable to be divided in tenotomy of that muscle. The anterior tibial nerve bears a relation to the anterior tibial artery, and also to the dorsalis pedis artery, by means of its internal branch. Its points of distribution are given in detail, in the preceding tables. The musculo-cutaneous nerve runs between the peronei muscles and the extensor longus digitorum, and divides, after piercing the deep fascia, into its terminal branches, at about the lower third of the anterior aspect of the leg. The INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE is the largest of the two terminal branches of the great sciatic nerve. In the popliteal space, it lies in intimate relation with the popliteal artery and vein. At the lower border of the popliteus muscle, after giving off articular and muscular branches, and a branch to assist in forming the external saphenous nerve, it becomes the posterior tibial nerve. The posterior tibial nerve is at first internal and posterior to the posterior tibial vessel, but soon passes to the outer side. It divides into the two plantar nerves in an interval between the inner malleolus and the heel. The internal plantar nerve supplies the integument of three and a half toes on the inner side of the footi in addition to some muscles. The external plantar nerve supplies the integument of one and a half toes on the outer side of the foot in addition to some muscles.