ANGIOLOGY. 408 ternal iliac artery. As it descends obliquely upwards and in- wards in the subperitoneal areolar tissue, it passes behind the inguinal canal and to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, and encircles the vas deferens in the male, and, in the female, the round ligament. It then ascends behind the sheath of the rectus muscle and, at its termination anastomoses with the supe- rior epigastric branch of the internal mammary artery. The union of these two vessels establishes the longest anastomosis in the human body. The epigastric artery gives off two branches as follows : 1. A cremasteric branch, which descends upon the spermatic cord, and supplies the cremaster muscle. 2. The pubic branch, which descends behind the pubes, on the inner side of the femoral ring, and which anastomoses with the obturator artery. The circumflex iliac artery arises near Poupart’s ligament, and runs upwards and outwards, along the inner lip of the crest of the ilium, to join with the gluteal artery. Collateral Circulation. The principal anastomoses in carrying on the collateral circu- lation, after the application of a ligature to the external iliac, are, (1) The ilio-lumbar with the circumflex iliac. (2) The gluteal with the external circumflex. (3) The obturator, with the internal circumflex. (4) The sciatic with the profunda femoris. (5) The mternal pudic with the external pudic, and with the internal circumflex. When the obturator artery arises from the epigastric, the ex- ternal iliac is supplied with blood by branches, either from the internal iliac, the lateral sacral, or from the internal pudic. The epigastric branch receives its supply after the external iliac is tied from the internal mammary and inferior intercostal arteries, and from the internal iliac, by the anastomoses of its branches with the obturator. INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The internal iliac artery, one of the branches of bifurcation of the common iliac, is a short trunk, which extends from the sacro- iliac synchondrosis to the upper border of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior trunk. Its length is usually about one and a half inches.