THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. The vessels which convey the blood from the heart to the systemic capillaries are cylindrical tubes gradually decreasing in size as they recede from the central organ. To them the name of arteries was given, before the circulation of blood was discov- ered or their function suspected, from the belief that they con- tained atmospheric air, and it was not until the time of Galen that this doctrine was refuted. It was he who first directed attention to the fact, that, while in the dead body the vessels were for the most part empty, still, in the living body, they con- tained the blood. The distribution of the arterial system is compared by a prominent author to a highly ramified tree, whose main trunk consists of the aorta, and whose ramifications extend in all direc- tions towards the periphery of the body and the organs con- tained within its numerous cavities. So extensive are these ram- ifications that but few of the essential parts of our structure es- cape their presence, among which, however, may be mentioned the hairs, the nails, the epidermis, cartilage and the cornea of the eye. Nature has considerably protected this important part of her organism from injury, by concealing the larger trunks by invest- ing muscles and by placing them on that aspect of the limbs, the flexor side as a rule, which is least liable to be exposed to vio- lence or to injury. She has moreover encased the main trunk of the arterial tree within two cavities, protected largely by bony walls, and, where not completely so protected, has covered it with soft and elastic viscera and afforded it shelter by the close proximity of the vertebral column. The branches of arteries vary greatly in their mode of origin and in the angle at which they leave the parent trunk. We occasionally find a short vessel suddenly dividing into numerous branches at the same point, as is the case in the coeliac and thyroid axes; again an artery will send off shoots along its entire length and still preserve its identity as the more important trunk, as is evidenced in the external carotids, the axillary, the brachial, the radial, the ulnar, and the arteries of the lower ex- tremity. We find in the third place frequent dichotomous divi- sions of large arteries to which the term bifurcation is applied, as for example, the division of the abdominal aorta into its two terminal branches, the common iliacs; and the common carotid into its terminal branches, the external and the internal carotid arteries.