569 THE TESTICLE. The seminal tubes, after their escape through the mediastinum testis, are called vasa recta, and these again, by joining with each other, form a collection of tubes, called the rete testis. The rete testis forms, in the region of the globus major of the epididymis, some fifteen or twenty ducts called vasa efferentia, which perforate the testicle and escape into the epididymis. The vasa efferentia soon become convoluted and grouped into conical shaped bundles, called coni vasculosis which constitute the greater portion of the globus major. The coni vasculosi finally empty into the canal of the epididy- mis, which consists of a tube, that measures about twenty feet in length, and which opens into the vas deferens. This tube con- stitutes the true structure of the epididymis. It is usually con- nected with an additional tube, called the vas aberrans of Hallers which occasionally opens into the vas deferens, but usually ends in a blind extremity. The VAS DEFERENS is the tube, by which the semen is con- veyed from the epididymis to the point of origin of the ejacula- tory duct. Its course is as follows : 1. Along the inner side of epididymis and the testicle. 2. Along the back part of the spermatic cord, to the external abdominal ring. 3. Through the two rings of the abdomen and the inguinal canal. 4. Between the bladder and the rectum, to the inner side of the vesicula seminalis. 5. Joins, at the base of prostate, with the duct of the vesicula seminalis, to form the ejaculatory duct. The vesiculce seminales are two sacculated pouches, which act as reservoirs for semen, and which are filled by a regurgitant current from the vas deferens of either *side. They are about two and a half inches in length, and are situated between the bladder and the second portion of the rectum. They consist of a tube, coiled upon itself, which measures about six inches in length. The ejaculatory ducts are formed, by the junction of the ducts of the vesiculae seminales and the vasa deferentia, upon either side of the body. They are about three-quarters of an inch in length, and they terminate at the anterior extremity of the prostatic por- tion of the urethra, upon either side of the verumontanum.