ANGIOLOG Y. 35<5 dom used for bleeding, although it is very superficial, since the temporal fascia, from its inelasticity, renders subsequent compres- sion difficult and also prevents the free escape of blood. INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. This artery is the deep terminal branch of the external carotid ; which, in size if not in direction, is a continuation of that vessel. It pursues a winding course, under cover of the ramus of the jaw, from its point of origin, where it is concealed by the parotid gland, till it reaches the .spheno-maxillary fossa, where it gives off its terminal branches. This artery is usually divided into three portions for conve- nience of description, as follows : 1. The maxillary portion. 2. The pterygoid portion. 3. The spheno-maxillary portion. The maxillary portion extends from its point of origin to the anterior border of the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw. The pterygoid portion of this, vessel is defined by its attach- ment to muscles through its muscular branches; although it is named from its relation to the external pterygoid muscle, on which it rests. The spheno-maxillary portion is contained in the spheno-max- illary fossa, which it enters through an interval between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle. At this point the artery lies in close relation to Meckel’s ganglion. The branches of the internal maxillary artery are fourteen in number, four of which are given off in the first portion, four in the second portion and six in the third portion. The names of these branches, in the order in which they are given off, will be found in the table of the distribution of the external carotid artery and its branches. The tympanic branch enters the tympanum through the fis- sure, of Glaser. The middle meningeal branch enters the cranium through the foramen spinosum. Its branches are distributed as follows : 1. Branches to the Gasserian ganglion. 2. Petrosal branch, which enters the hiatus fallopii and accom- panies the facial nerve. 3. Orbital branches, which anastomose with the vessels of the orbit. 4. Temporal branches, which perforate the temporal bone and join the deep temporal artery, in the temporal fossa.