547 THE BRONCHI. THE BRONCHI. The right and left bronchi commence at the bifurcation of the trachea, at a point corresponding to the 3d dorsal vertebra, and a little to the left of the median line of the spinal column. The right bronchus is wider than the left, and lies more hori- zontally. It is about one inch in length, and enters the root of the right lung on a level with the 4th dorsal vertebra. In its course, it lies behind the superior vena cava and the right auricle of the heart, while the right pulmonary artery lies at first below, it, but becomes anterior to it, before it enters the lung. The vena azygos major arches over it, passing from behind forwards. The left bronchus is the smaller of the two, is more oblique in its direction, and is nearly two inches in length. It enters the root of the left lung on a level with the 5th dorsal vertebra. In its course, it passes beneath the arch of the aorta, and in front of the descending portion of the arch of the aorta, the oesophagus, and the thoracic duct. The pulmonary artery of the left side lies at first above it, and then in front of it. The bronchi present the same general appearance on section as does the trachea, since the cartilaginous rings are continued in the bronchi, even after they enter the substance of the lung. These rings are evidently intended by Nature as a source of protection against any outside pressure which might produce impairment to the free entrance of air into the lung. The bronchi, immediately after their entrance into the lung, divide into large primary divisions, which, in the right lung, are two in number, and, in the left lung, are three in number. This point may be easily remembered by recalling the fact that the primary divisions of the bronchial tubes are in antagonism to the respective number of lobes which each lung presents, since the right lung has three lobes and two main bronchi; while the left lung has two lobes and three main bronchi. The cartilaginous rings of the bronchi extend to the second or third bifurcation of the bronchus within the lung substance, when the rings give place to plates of cartilage, scattered within the walls of the bronchial tubes. These plates of cartilage disappear altogether when the tubes reach a diameter of about one-thirtieth to one-fiftieth of an inch,