THE INFERIOR MAXILLAR V BONE. 59 Ramus. This portion of the lower jaw is quadrilateral in form and pre- sents the following points, which deserve special mention: (i.) Thz internal surface. This surface of the ramus of the jaw presents, near its middle, the aperture of the inferior dental canal, for the passage of the inferior dental vessels and nerve, in front of which is also per- ceived the spine of the ramus, for the attachment of the inter- nal lateral ligament of the jaw. A prominent groove called the mylo-hyoidgroove also exists upon this surface, in which lie the mylo-hyoid vessels and nerve, and behind this is seen a roughened surface, for the attachment of the internal pterygoid muscle. (2.) The external surface. On this surface are seen numerous oblique ridges for the at- tachment of the masseter muscle. (3.) The upper border. This portion of the bone presents three points of interest, viz.: the coronoid process, the condyloid process, and the sig- moid notch. The coronoid process is triangular in form and affords attach, ment to the temporal muscle. At its lower and ante- rior part is perceived a groove which is continued down- wards upon the alveolar process and which affords attachment to the buccinator muscle. The condyloid process consists of two parts, viz. : the condyle and the neck. The condyle is oblong in its form and convex from side to side and from before backwards. The long axis of the con- dyle, if prolonged inwards and slightly backwards, would meet its fellow at about the region of the anterior bor- der of the foramen magnum in the occipital bone. It articulates with the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone. The neck of the condyloid process is flattened from before backwards and is convex on its posterior surface. In front, it is hollowed out into a cavity, the pterygoid fossa, for the attachment of the external pterygoid muscle, and externally it presents a tubercle, for the attachment of the external lateral ligament of the jaw. The sigmoid notch is a deep depression of a semilunar shape, lying between and separating the two processes. It is crossed by the masseteric vessels and nerve. (4.) The anterior border. This border of the ramus is continuous with the external ob-