203 MUSCLES IN GENERAL. MYOLOGY. The muscles are the active organs of motion, constituting the source of power that is applied to the various levers represented by the component parts of the skeleton. The movements pro- duced are the result of that peculiar property, possessed by mus- cles, of shortening themselves, which is called muscular con- tractility. Muscles are of two great classes. A. Muscles of Animal Life or Voluntary Muscles. B. Muscles of Organic Life or Involuntary Muscles. The first class are under the control of the will, and comprise the muscles of locomotion, respiration, expression and some others. The second class are entirely withdrawn from the control of the will, such as those of the heart, of the arteries, of the intestinal canal, and of the various organs. When we employ the term “ muscular system ” we refer to the first class or voluntary muscles. The muscles of the body may be connected either with the bony skeleton, the ligaments of joints, the cartilaginous structures or the integument. When attached to ligaments only, do muscles come in direct contact, however, with the part on which they are destined to act, since, when attached to bone and cartilage, the fibres are connected with the periosteum and perichondrium, and, when the action of the muscle is directed upon the integument, the fibres are usually connected with the subcutaneous areolar tissue. Muscles vary greatly, (1) in their general form, (2) in their method of arrangement as regards their tendon, and (3) in their size. The various forms of muscles are influenced by their situation and the function which they are destined to perform. In the limbs, they are usually of an elongated form, when superficially situated, and broad, when deeply placed. In the trunk, they are, as a rule, broad, flattened or expanded, since they form either the parietes of cavities or are spread out upon the bony wall of the chest or pelvis. We therefore employ such terms as long, short, broad, expanded, etc., as indicating peculiar conformations or types of muscles. As regards the arrangement of the muscular fibres to the ten- dons to which they are attached, an equal diversity is perceived. The long muscles usually present a tendon at either one or both extremities, towards which longitudinal fibres converge. When shorter fibres converge to the side of a tendon, which runs for the 1 Hf