108 SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. OS INNOMINATUM. The os innominatum (bone without a name) or coxal bone is formed by the union of three distinct bones, each of which has two names, as follows: (1) The Ilium or Haunch bone. (2) “ Ischium or Seat bone. (3) “ Pubes or Share bone. It is a large, irregular, flat bone, constricted towards its mid- dle portion and expanded above and below. It is also so twisted upon itself, that its superior expanded portion is directed inwards, at its posterior part, and outwards at its anterior part, while its inferior portion is curved inwards, anteriorly, as far as the median line of the body. The three portions of which it is composed, remain distinct until about the 14th year of age, when they be- come united as one bone. These three portions, the ilium, the ischium and the pubes will be considered therefore separately, after first describing two important portions of the bone which do not properly pertain to either of the three divisions alone. These two important portions are, (1) The acetabulum or cotyloid cavity, and (2) The obturator or thyroid foramen, or foramen ovale. ACETABULUM OR COTYLOID CAVITY. This cavity serves the purpose of affording an articular sur- face for the head of the femur. It is deep, hemispherical in shape and is composed of three parts. Of these three parts, the ilium forms a little less than two-fifths, including, however, the largest portion of the articular ring; the ischium forms a little more than two-fifths of the whole cavity, including the largest proportion of its central depressed portion ; the pubes form the balance of the acetabulum or about one-fifth of the whole. The direction of the cavity of the acetabulum is downwards, forwards and outwards. It is surrounded, for the greater part of its circumference, by a ring or elevated margin of bone for the attachment of the cotyloid ligament, which deepens the cavity. This ring is deficient, how- ever, in front and below, and is most extensively developed at its posterior portion. The cotyloid notch is an opening, in margin of the acetabulum, leading into its central depressed portion, which transmits the nutrient vessels to the joint and which is continuous with the central depressed portion.