482 NEUROLOGY. SUMMARY OF THE NERVES OF THE UPPER EX- TREMITY. The BRACHIAL PLEXUS consists of three cords, called the outer cord, the inner cord, and the posterior cord. The outer and inner cords are formed directly by the anterior branches of the spinal nerves, while the posterior cord is formed independently of the ‘spinal nerves, by a branch given off from each of the other two cords. This plexus of nerves lies between the scalenus anticus and the scalenus medius muscles, and is very broad at its com- mencement, but becomes constricted as it enters the arm. The brachial plexus of nerves bear an important surgical rela- tion to the second and third portions of each subclavian artery, and to the first and second portions of each axillary artery. The third portion of each axillary artery bears relation to its branches, but not to its main cords. The brachial plexus, within the neck, is pierced by the trans- versalis colli artery. The following branches of special import- ance are given off above the line of the clavicle. 1. A communiating branch, which completes the phrenic nerve. 2. The posterior thoracic nerve, which arises by two heads, one from the fifth and one from the sixth cervical nerves, and which is distributed to the serratus magnus muscle. Since it assists inspiration, and as it passes down upon the external aspect of the chest, it is frequently called the “external respiratory nerve of Bell." The brachial plexus of nerves, below the level of the clavicle, lies to the outside of the first portion of the axillary artery, while in the second portion of that vessel, its three cords surround it, and, in the third portion of that vessel, the branches of each of the three cords bear a relation to the artery. The MEDIAN NERVE is the most important branch of the outer cord, and bears relations with the brachial artery, in the arm and at the bend of the elbow. It passes between the two heads of the pronator radii teres muscle, and is distributed, in the hand, to the integument of the outer three fingers and half of the palm. The muscles supplied by this nerve are shown on page 479 of this volume, and also in a table inserted in the chapter on myology.