519 THE (ESOPHAGUS. muscles, as well as their source of nervous supply, can be found in the chapter on myology. Mucous Membrane. The mucous membrane is covered with squamous epithelium, below the level of the floor of the nares ; and, above that point, with columnar ciliated epithelium. It contains three varieties of glands, namely, simple follicular, compound follicular, and race- mose glands. The latter variety are most abundant in the upper part of the pharynx. Arteries. The arteries are four in number, viz., the ascending pharyn- geal, the pterygo-palatine, the descending palatine, and branches of the superior thyroid artery. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the pharyngeal plexus. THE OESOPHAGUS. The oesophagus is a musculo-membranous tube, which com- mences in the median line of the neck, opposite to the 5th cer- vical vertebra and the lower border of the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, and terminates, after passing through the diaphragm, at the cardiac opening of the stomach, on a level with the Q)th dorsal vertebra. It is nine inches long, and has relations, in the neck, with the trachea, the left lobe of the thyroid gland, the left re- current laryngeal nerve, the left common carotid artery; and, in the thorax, with the bifurcation of the trachea, the left bronchus, the arch of the aorta, the thoracic duct, the vena azygos major, the heart and pericardium, and the pneumogastric nerves. It passes through the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm, in com- pany with the pneumogastric nerves. Its muscular fibres consist of a longitudinal and a circular set. Its cellular coat forms a loose connection between its muscular and mucous coats, and contains its arteries, before they enter the mucous membrane. Its mucous me7nbrane is pale in color, is very thick, is thrown into longitudinal folds, except when the bolus of food is passing through it, and contains small compound racemose glands, which are most abundant in its lower part. Its vessels are principally derived from the thoracic aorta, and its veins empty into the vena azygos major.