ARTHROLOGY OR SYNDESMOLOGY. 182 1. The anterior radio-ulnar ligament, which connects the anterior margin of the sigmoid cavity of the radius to the anterior portion of the head of the ulna. 2. The posterior radio-ulnar ligament, which connects the posterior margin of the sigmoid cavity to the pos- terior portion of the head of the ulna. A triangular fibro-cartilage also extends from the lower mar- gin of the sigmoid cavity to the depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna. This cartilage is lined, both upon its upper and lower surfaces, by synovial membrane, derived re- spectively from the radio-ulnar and the radio-carpal articulations, and is blended, at its margins, with the other ligaments of the joint. The synovial membrane of this joint is very largely developed and is termed the membrana sacciformis. It occasionally com- municates with the synovial membrane of the wrist joint through an opening in the centre of the triangular fibro-cartilage. The Wrist Joint. This articulation is regarded by some as an enarthrodial, and by others as an arthrodial joint. It is formed by three of the upper row of carpal bones, viz., the scaphoid, the semilunar and the cuneiform, and by the lower surface of the radius and the trian- gular fibro-cartilage of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. The ligaments of this joint are four in number and may be enumerated as follows: I. The external lateral ligame?it (radio-carpal), which connects the apex of the styloid process of the radius to the scaphoid, the trapezium, and the anterior annular liga- ment of carpus. II. The internal lateral ligament (ulno-carpal), which connects the apex of the styloid process of the ulna with the cuneiform and the pisiform bones, and with the anterior annular ligament of the carpus. III. The anterior liga7nent, which connects the head of the ulna and the anterior margin of the radius and its styloid process, with the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones. It is occasionally attached to the os magnum. IV. The posterior ligament, which connects the posterior margin of the radius with the scaphoid, semilunar and cuneiform bones. The vessels of the wrist joint are the anterior and posterior carpal branches of both the radial and the ulnar arteries, th j