64 THE SKULL IN GENERAL. The Bony Orbit. The orbital cavities are two in number, one on either side of the nasal fossae. Each cavity is of the form of a quadrilateral pyramid whose axis looks outwards and forwards. Each is com- posed of seven bones, as follows: (Frontal. Mesial bones (Sphenoid. f Superior Maxillary. Pairs of bones / x J Lachrymal. The three mesial bones, mentioned above, enter into the forma- tion of both orbits, while one of each pair compose the remainder of each orbit. It will thus be perceived that only eleven bones are present in the two orbits. Each orbit communicates with one cavity, four fossae and one canal. The following table will illustrate the means of communi- cation with each of these, as well as the names of the parts to which the orbit has access. The Orbit communi- cates with the fol- lowing parts of the skull f One cavity... • I (Through optic fora- ( < men and sphenoid- ■< ( al fissure. ( j i { Four fosses .. j Through the spheno- [ maxillary fissure and -< nasal duct. J One Canal.... ‘ Cranium. Nasal. T emporal. Zygomatic. Spheno-maxillary. Nasal duct. The orbit presents for examination the following parts: A roof, a floor, an inner wall, an outer wall, four angles, a circum- ference or base, and an apex. The roof of the orbit is formed by the fol- lowing two bones : The floor of the orbit is formed by the fol- lowing three bones : The inner wall of the orbit is formed by the following four bones in their order, from before backwards : The outer wall of the orbit is formed by the following bones in their order, from be- fore backwards: Orbital plate of Frontal. Lesser wing of Sphenoid. Orbital surface of the Superior Maxilla. Orbital process of the Malar. Orbital process of the Palate. Nasal process of the Superior Maxilla. Lachrymal. Os planum of the Ethmoid. Body of the Sphenoid. Orbital process of Malar. Orbital surface of the great wing of the Sphenoid. The points of interest pertaining to each of these special localities are as follows: Roof of the orbit, (i.) The lachrymal fossa for the lachrymal gland.