ORGAN OF CIRCULA TION 5io The two segments of the mitral valve arise from the fibrous rings situated at the auriculo-ventricular opening, and consist of a reduplication of the endocardium, or lining membrane of the heart, strengthened by a layer of fibrous tissue and a few muscu- lar fibres. The chordae tendineae are attached to the segments of the mitral valve in three situations. 1st, at the edge nearest the point of origin, 2d, at the centre of each segment, where the valve is specially thickened for that purpose, and 3d, at the marginal border of each segment. The same arrangement can also be found at the tricuspid valve, but the number of tendinous fibres attached to the mitral valve, is much smaller than those of the tricuspid valve, and their size and strength is greatly increased, to bear the excessive strain dependent on the powerful contraction of the left ven- tricle. The TRICUSPID VALVE is situated in the right ventricle and closes the right auriculo-ventricular opening. It consists of three segments or flaps which are triangular in shape, and to which the chordae tendineae of the right ventricle are attached. Like the mitral valve, its segments possess no inherent rigid- ity. They are, however, adherent to each other at that portion of their free margins, which is nearest the fibrous ring from which they arise, and they thus form a continuous membranous band at the immediate circumference of the auriculo-ventricular opening. The largest of the three segments is placed at that portion of the auriculo-ventricular orifice, which is nearest to the pulmonary artery, and doubtless serves to prevent the blood from entering that vessel during the auricular systole of the heart. The chordce tendinece attached to the segments of the tricus- pid valve are finer and more numerous than those attached to the mitral valve. The SEMILUNAR VALVES protect the aortic and thz pulmonary orifices of the heart. By them the blood, thrown from the cavi- ties of the two ventricles, is prevented from again returning to the heart during its period of rest or diastole. They consist of three semi-circular folds so attached to the walls of the arteries as to present a concave surface, which looks towards the cavity of the vessel when the valves are closed. The free margin of each segment is thicker than in its central portion, being strengthened, in that part, by a bundle of tendinous fibres. It presents also a fibro-cartilaginous nodule, called the “cor- pus Arantii.” From this nodule, tendinous bands radiate in every