456 NEUROLOGY. the lateral ventricles on each side, and below with the third ventricle. The corpus callosum is a thick stratum of transverse fibres, ex- posed at the bottom of the longitudinal fissure. It connects the two hemispheres of the brain, forming their great transverse com- missure ; and forms the roof of a space in the interior of each hemisphere, the lateral ventricle. It is about four inches in length, extending to within an inch and a half of the anterior, and to within two inches and a half of the ^posterior part of the brain. It is somewhat broader behind than in front, and is thicker at either end than in its central part, and is thickest behind. It pre- sents a somewhat arched form, from before backwards, and termi- nates anteriorly in a rounded border, which curves downwards and backwards, between the anterior lobes to the base of the brain. In its course, it forms a distinct bend, named the knee or genu, and the reflected portion, named the beak or rostrum, is attached to the anterior cerebral lobe, and is connected, through the lamina cinerea, with the optic commissure. The reflected portion of the corpus callosum gives off, near its termination, two bundles of white substance, which, diverging from one another, pass back, wards, across the anterior perforated space, to the entrance of the fissure of Sylvius. They are called the peduncles of the corpus callosum. Posteriorly, the corpus callosum forms a thick, rounded fold, which is free for a little distance, as it curves forwards, and is then continuous with the fornix. On its upper surface, its fibrous structure is very apparent to the naked eye, being col- lected into coarse, transverse bundles. Along the middle line, is a linear depression, the raphe, bounded laterally by two or more slightly elevated longitudinal bands, called the striae longitudin- als or nerves of Lancisi; and, still more externally, other longi- tudinal striae are seen, beneath the convolutions, which rest on the corpus callosum. These are the striae loyigitudinales laterales. THE MESO-CEPHALON. The parts which help to form the connecting link between the cerebrum, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata, when taken as a whole, are termed the meso-cephalon. Under this head certain parts are included which have been already described in detail, since they pertain chiefly to other regions, while some others have been only casually referred to. The meso-cephalon comprises the following structures :