STRUCTURE OF THE EYE. 581 with the expanded fibres of the optic nerve. It is often divided into two layers, called the ganglionic, and the nervous layer. The arteries of the retina are derived from the arteria centralis retinae, which pierces the optic nerve before it enters the eye. The AQUEOUS HUMOR of the eye is contained within a space between the anterior surface of the lens of the eye and the pos- terior surface of the cornea. This space contains also the iris, which floats in the aqueous humor, and, by some anatomists, the cavity of the aqueous humor is divided, by it, into an anterior and a posterior aqueous chamber. The aqueous humor differs slightly from water, as it contains chloride of sodium and a trace of other solid matters. The LENS of the eye is a double convex, transparent body, whose convexity is most marked at its posterior surface. It is en- closed in a capsule of its own, and is held in position by a suspen- sory ligament. It is situated between the iris and the vitreous humor, and its circumference is surrounded by a canal, called the canal of Petit. The structure of the lens consist of superimposed layers which are parallel with the surfaces of the lens, and each of these layers may be also subdivided into three segments, which are of nearly equal size. The capsule of the lens is very elastic arid brittle in its nature, and, when ruptured, it tends to curl up spontaneously. It affords attachment to the suspensory ligament of the lens, and is attached, behind, to the hyaloid membrane. It is separated from the anterior surface of the lens, by a layer of cells, which, after death, absorb moisture and break down into a fluid, called the liquor Morgagni. The suspensory ligament of the lens is sometimes called the zonula of Zinn. It is attached to the capsule of the lens and is separated from the hyaloid membrane by the canal of Petit. Its anterior surface is thrown into small radiating folds, called the processus zonulce, which are received between the ciliary pro- cesses. The VITREOUS HUMOR is contained within the posterior cham- ber of the eye, between the posterior surface of the lens and the retina. It is enclosed in a capsule, called the hyaloid membrane, and it is excavated, in its anterior portion, for the reception of the lens. The hyaloid membrane is closely attached to the posterior sur- face of the capsule of the lens, and forms the posterior boundary of the canal of Petit.