179 THE SHOULDER JOIjVT. are usually described in connection with the acromio-clavicular articulation. Ligaments of the Scapula. The scapula has connected with it two ligaments, which do not properly belong to any joint, but which are usually described in connection with the acromio-clavicular articulation. These two ligaments are as follows : I. The anterior or coraco-acromial ligament. This ligament connects the acromion process of the scapula with the outer border of the coracoid process, and thus completes the vault above the head of the humerus. II. The transverse or supra-scapular ligament. This ligament extends from the base of the coracoid process to the inner margin of the supra-scapular notch. It converts this portion of the bone into a foramen, which transmits the supra-scapular nerve. Shoulder-J oint. This is an enathrodial joint and is formed by the globular head of the humerus and the glenoid cavity of the scapula. It possesses three ligaments which are as follows: I. The capsular ligament, which connects the neck of the scapula, at the margin of its glenoid cavity, to the anatomical neck of the humerus. II. The coraco-humeral ligamcyit, which connects the coracoid process of the scapula with the anterior part of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. It is intimately blended with the capsular ligament. III. The glenoid ligajnent, which is a fibro-cartilaginous ring, triangular on section, attached to the circumference of the glenoid cavity. It is continuous, above, with the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle. The synovial membrane of the shoulder-joint is prolonged, as a sheath, upon the tendon of the biceps, the tendon of the subscap- laris, and the tendon of the infra-spinatus muscles. It communi- cates with a bursa beneath both the infra-spinatus and the sub- scapularis muscles. A bursa between the upper part of the cap- sular ligament and the deltoid muscle also exists, but it does not communicate with the synovial membrane of the shoulder joint. The capsular ligament is remarkably loose and is attached around the glenoid cavity outside of the glenoid ligament, and to the humerus, where the neck springs from the tuberosities and the