CA VITIES OF THE HEART. 50; size during the contraction of the auricle, and thus regurgitation of blood into the venae cavae is partially obstructed, although the absence of valves at their auricular openings prevents their total closure during the systolic action of the heart. The coronary veins, however, are provided with one or two valvular folds, the coronary valves, which exclude the possibility of regurgitation of venous blood into the muscular substance of the heart. During foetal life, the right auricle allows of the passage of blood from the vena cava ascendens, through the muscular sep- tum, into the adjoining auricle. The opening for this purpose is called the “foramen ovale” and the blood from the descending vena cava is prevented from entering it by a septum called the Eustachian valve, which deflects the upper current of blood into the right ventricle, while it causes the inferior current to pass through the foramen ovale. After birth, however, this valve de- creases greatly in size, and the communication between the auri- cles becomes destroyed by the closure of the opening ; so that, in adult life, a simple depression in the auricular septum termed the ‘‘ fossa ovalisand a circumscribing ring called the annulus ovalis • or isthmus of Vieusseus, mark the seat of its former existence. The aperture between the auricles fails, however, to become entirely closed in about fifty per cent of all the hearts opened for inspection, a small aperture being usually discovered on the up- per margin of the fossa ovalis; but it is too small in extent to have any important effect upon the muscular power of the auricle. Two other points only within this cavity require mention, one of which is a small tubercle, supposed by Lower to assist in directing the current of blood through the tricuspid orifice, and called, from the discoverer, the “ tubercle of Lower ; ” and certain small prominent muscular columns, in the auricular appendix, to which the name “ musculipectinati ” has been applied, from their supposed resemblance to the teeth of a comb. The cavity of the right auricle has been ascertained to be capable of containing about two ounces of fluid when moderately distended. The LEFT AURICLE of the heart is slightly smaller than the right auricle, and has thicker walls ; measuring from one-half to two lines in thickness. It receives blood from the lungs, by the four pulmonary veins, which empty into its cavity by four distinct openings. These openings have no valves. The left auricle, like that of the right side, opens into the corresponding ventricle, by an auriculo-ventricular orifice which is closed by the mitral valve.