ARTHROLOGY OR SYNDESMOLOGY. 178 III. The inter clavicular ligament, which connects the inner extremities of both clavicles with the margin of the sternum and with each other. IV. The costo-clavicular, or rhoinboid ligament, which connects the under surface of the clavicle to the cartilage of the first rib. V. The capsular ligament, which extends from the circumfer- ence of the head of the clavicle to the sternum. The interarticular fibro-cartilage, present between the bones of this joint, moves freely with the clavicle. This joint admits of slight movements in almost every direction. The sterno-clavicular articulatio?i is an important surgical local- ity, since the innominate artery and the points of origin of the subclavian and the carotid arteries, upon the right side, and the common carotid artery, upon the left side, are in close relation. The innominate vein, upon the left side, and the apices of the lungs, upon both sides, are also present in this region. Acromio-Clavicular Articulation. This is an arthrodial joint and possesses five ligaments, which are as follows: I. The superior acromio-clavicidar ligament, which extends from the upper part of the outer end of the clavicle to the upper surface of the acromion process of the scapula. II. The inferior acromio-clavicular ligament, which connects the under surface of the outer end of the clavicle to the under surface of the acromion process of the scapula. III. The trapezoid ligament, which connects the upper surface of the coracoid process of the scapula to the under surface of the clavicle. This ligament is sometimes described as one fasciculus of the coraco-clavicular ligament, of which the conoid ligament forms the remainder. IV. The conoid ligament, which connects the base of the cora- coid process of the scapula to the conoid tubercle ,of the clavicle. An interarticular fibro cartilage is present between the bones which form this joint, and is attached to the superior acromio- clavicular ligament. This joint has usually but one synovial membrane. The con- oid and trapezoid ligaments are not properly those of a joint, but