47 SUPERIOR MAXILLAR Y BONE. THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. This bone assists in the formation of the following parts: {The roof of the mouth. The floor and outer wall of the nose. The floor of the orbit, j The zygomatic fossa. \ The temporal fossa. \ The spheno-maxillary fissure. (The pterygo-maxillary fissure. The bone, as a whole, may be described as presenting a body and four processes, viz., the malar, nasal, alveolar and palate pro- cesses, each of which will be separately described. A. The Body. This portion of the bone is hollow. Its cavity is termed the antrum of Highmore. The body of the superior maxillary bone may be divided into three surfaces and its central cavity. (i.) Outer or facial stir face of body. This portion of the body of the bone is convex in its form. It presents, as the bone is examined from within outwards, several points which have been specially named. The incisive fossa, or myrtiform fossa, is a depression in the outer surface of the body of the bone, near the median line, for the attachment of the depressor alae nasi muscle. The canine fossa is a large, deep depression situated immed- iately below the infra-orbital foramen, and it affords attachment for the levator anguli oris and the compressor naris muscles. The foramen immediately above it transmits the infra-orbital vessels and nerve. The maxillary tuberosity is situated behind a vertical bony ridge upon the outer surface of the body of the bone. It affords articulation for the tuberosity of the palate bone. (2.) Inner surface of body. This portion of the bone is divided into two unequal parts by its palate process. The portion below this process forms the anterior part of the roof of the mouth, while the portion lying above the palate process forms the largest part of the outer wall of the nasal cavity, and presents the following points of spec- ial interest. The inferior turbinated crest, a ridge of bone separating two wide and deep grooves, which run in an antero-posterior direction and which correspond to the middle and inferior meatuses of each of the nasal fossae. The superior turbinated crest, a ridge of bone surmounting 3 cavities, 2 fossae... 2 fissures.