506 ORGAN OF C/RCULA TIOAT, ameter shall be two inches, taking as its centre a point midway be- tween the left nipple and the end of the sternum. The external surface of the heart is traversed by two grooves which mark the division into its four separate cavities. These grooves are called the interventricular and the auriculo-ventric- ular grooves. The first lies between the two ventricles on the anterior and posterior surface of the heart, and runs longitudin- ally, or in the long axis of that organ; while the second marks the junction of the auricles and ventricles, and runs transversely across the heart. Cavities of the Heart. The RIGHT AURICLE receives the venous blood from the two venae cavae and empties it into the right ventricle. The right auricle presents a principal cavity or sinus and a small appendix, resembling in shape the ear of a dog, and called for that .reason the auricular appendix. It has two large openings in its interior, for the vena cava as- cendens and the vena cava descendens; and a smaller opening,; called the coronary sinus, for the coronary vein which returns the blood from the substance of the heart itself. It presents also an- other large opening, called the auriculo-venticular opening, through which the blood flows into the ventricle and which is closed during the contraction of the ventricle by the tricuspid valve. This opening in health should have a capacity sufficiently large to admit three fingers of an adult. The cavity of the right auricle presents also small mmute ori- fices called the “foramina TJiebesiifi at which points venous blood from the small veins of the heart is returned. These openings are sometimes closed by reduplications of the endocardium, al- though their orifices are so minute as to be probably occluded by muscular pressure when the auricle is in a state of contraction. The walls of this cavity are thinner than in any portion of the heart, measuring only a line in thickness. They are composed of two layers of muscular fibres, arranged as an external and an internal set. The outer layer is common to both of the auri- cles, while the internal layer is distributed to each auricle sepa- rately. The internal muscular layer consists of looped and cir- cular bands of muscle. The former arise from fibrous rings, situated between the auricle and the ventricle, while the circular fibres encircle the auricular appendix, and the openings of the veins, into which they extend for a short distance. It is through these circular fibres, that the venous openings are diminished in