497 S YMPA THE TIC NER VES. THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The sympathetic nerves are called the nerves of organic life, in contra-distinction to the cerebro-spinal nerves, which are called the nerves of animal life. The term “ sympathetic ” was originally applied to them from the belief that, by means of these nerves, distant organs were made to undergo similar changes through sympathy. This system of nerves controls, to a great extent, nutrition and growth, since its filaments are principally distributed to the muscular coat of the blood- vessels ; and, by effecting the contraction or relaxation of these muscular fibres, they are enabled to increase or diminish the calibre of the blood-vessels and thus proportionately to increase or diminish the amount of blood distributed to the various por- tions of the body. The sympathetic nerves are distributed, like those of the cerebro-spinal system, to ail portions of the human body, and are thus enabled to affect the various tissues which enter into the formation of the human framework. The main nerve and its branches are most extensively distributed, either in connection with, or in relation to, the larger trunks of the cerebro-spinal sys- tem, and its points of special interest are found in the cranium, the cervical region and in the thoracic, abdominal and pelvic cavities. The sympathetic system of nerves may be stated, in general, to consist of the following parts: * 1. Ganglia. 3. Branches of distribution. 2. Cords of communication. 4. Plexuses. The GANGLIA of the sympathetic system, are chiefly in rela- tion either with the main divisions of the cerebro-spinal axis, the vertebral column, the various sensory nerve trunks, or the various viscera. They may be divided therefore into those of the cranium, the prevertebral set, the ganglia of the spinal nerves, and the ganglia of the viscera. Within the cranium, and in its immediate region, there are found the following ganglia: Ganglion of Ribes. Gasserian ganglion. Meckel’s ganglion. Ciliary ganglion. Otic ganglion. Submaxillary ganglion.