NEUROLOGY. 498 Of these ganglia, five are connected with the great sensory nerve of the face, namely, the 5th cranial nerve ; while the remain- ing one, namely, the ganglion of Ribes, is situated upon the anter- ior communicating artery and serves to connect the sympathetic nerves of the two sides of the body. With each of the thirty-one pairs of nerves, which arise from the spinal cord, there is found to exist a ganglion upon the pos- terior or sensory root of the nerve. These ganglia may properly be classed with the Gasserian ganglion and the ganglia on the roots of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves; since they indicate, simply, the intimate communication which exists between the sensory nerves of the cerebro-spinal system and the sympathetic nerves, in contra-distinction to the absence of such affinity in the motor nerves of the cerebro-spinal axis. In the cervical region, three ganglia of the sympathetic system exist which are called as follows : Superior cervical ganglion. Middle cervical ganglion, {thyroidganglion). Inferior cervical ganglion. The first of these is the largest and is situated opposite to the 2d and 3d cervical vertebrae; the second is the smallest of the three, and is situated upon the inferior thyroid artery, at a point opposite to the 5th cervical vertebra; while the third is situated between the neck of the 1st rib and the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and is in relation with the superior inter- costal artery. The prevertebral set of ganglia are situated in the vicinity of the head of the ribs and are smaller than the cervical ganglia just mentioned, which, however, properly belong to this set. This group includes the three cervical ganglia just mentioned, eleven ox twelve dorsal ganglia, four or five lumbar ganglia, five sacral ganglia, and one, which is located upon the coccyx, and which is called the ganglion impar. The ganglia connected with the viscera are numerous and are placed principally in the thoracic and the abdominal cavities. The PLEXUSES of the sympathetic system of nerves are very numerous. The more important ones are as follows: Carotid plexus. Cavernous plexus. Meningeal plexus. Facial plexus. Cardiac plexuses. Coronary plexuses.