VEINS OF THE DURA MATER. 423 SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. The sinuses of the skull are channels, formed by the dura mater, for the transmission of blood, although their inner coat is formed by a continuation of the inner or serous coat of the veins. They are fifteen in number and may be divided as fol- lows : f Superior longitudinal sinus. Inferior longitudinal sinus. Single Sinuses (5)-; Straight sinus. Circular sinus. [Transverse sinus. f Occipital sinuses. I Lateral sinuses. Pairs of Sinuses (5H Cavernous sinuses. 1 Superior petrosal sinuses. ( Inferior petrosal sinuses. The superior longitudinal sinus commences at the foramen coecum, through which it frequently communicates with the veins of the nose and with a vein from the frontal sinus, and runs backwards along the upper margin of the falx cerebri, till it reaches the torcular Herophili. It receives the superficial veins of the convexity of the hemispheres, and veins from the diploe and the dura mater; and also the parietal veins from the pericra- nium, at the posterior extremity of the sagittal suture. The situation of the superior and inferior longitudinal sinuses of the dura mater may be represented upon the external portion of the cranium by a line drawn over the middle line of the con- vexity of the skull from the root of the nose to the external occip- ital protuberance. The inferior longitudinal sinus runs along the free margin of the falx cerebri and opens into the anterior extremity of the straight sinus, behind the venae Galeni. The straight sinus runs downwards and backwards along the line of junction of the falx cerebri with the tentorium cerebelli and opens into the torcular Herophili. It receives blood from the venae Galeni, the inferior longitudinal sinus, the inferior median cerebral vein, and the superior cerebellar veins. The circular sinus is enclosed in a ring of dura mater, which surrounds the pituitary body. Its posterior half is larger in cali- bre than its anterior. The transverse sinus crosses the basilar groove and connects the two cavernous and inferior petrosal sinuses of either side. It is sometimes double. The occipital sinuses are contained in the falx cerebelli, and,