BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. i5o muscle. The so-called intertrochanteric line of the femur extends from the greater trochanter to the lesser, and forms the inferior boundary of the neck of the bone. The lesser trochanter is small and conical in shape and affords attachment to the psoas and iliacus muscles. Lower Extremity. The lower extremity of the femur is broad and is expanded into two prominent processes, called the external and internal condyles, separated by a notch, behind, called the inter-condyloid notch which lodges the two crucial ligaments. Of these two condyles, the outer is the broadest and longest, so that if the bone be placed vertically it pro- jects full one-half inch below the inner, since the shaft of the bone is directed inwards towards the median line and therefore requires additional length upon that side. The outer condyle affords attachment for the exter- nal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, the popliteus muscle, and the gastrocnemius muscle. The inner condyle affords attachment for the inter- nal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle. The points of bone upon either condyle of the femur, called the tuberosities of the condyles, give at- tachment to the lateral ligaments. They are situated behind and not in front of the centre of motion. Shaft. The shaft of the femur is rounded in front and covered with muscles, but behind it is raised into a rough and prom- inent ridge called the linea aspera. Of all the bones in the body it most nearly resembles a cylinder. It is not quite straight, but is slightly curved in^front. At the lower extremity of the bone, the linea aspera di- vides into two ridges, called the external and internal condyloid, which descend to the two condyles of the femur and enclose a triangular space, called the popli- teal space, upon which rests the popliteal artery, while, above, two lines can be traced from the linea aspera to the trochanters. The internal condyloid ridge is less marked than the external, and presents a broad and shallow groove, for the passage of the femoral artery.