VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 3^1 The first three branches, upon both sides of the body, arise close together, a space, varying usually from one-half of an inch to an inch, existing between the point of origin of the vertebral and the commencement of the vessel, upon the right side ; while upon the left side, the distance from the point of origin of the sub- clavian to the point of origin of the vertebral varies, in the larger percentage of cases, from one and a quarter to two and one-eighth inches. VERTEBRAL ARTERY. The vertebral artery arises, in the average of dissections, at a point situated about one-third of an inch from the inner border of the scalenus anticus muscle towards the median line, upon the right side of the body; while upon the left side, it is almost invar* iably present at the point of abrupt change in the course of the subclavian artery, as it arches over the first rib, which however corresponds tp nearly the same relative point. The left vertebral artery is usually the larger than the right, and, at its point of origin, its axis lies more nearly in the direct line of the current of blood than that of the right side. This per- haps accounts for the increased size of the left vertebral artery. The vertebral artery, upon either side, ascends through a fora- men in the transverse process of each of the first six cervical ver- tebrae, and after pursuing a winding course at the base of the skull, enters the cranium through the foramen magnum and terminates, in front of the medulla oblongata, by uniting with its fellow of the opposite side to form the basilar artery. The vertebral artery, previous to its entrance to the skull, is contained within a triangidar space, which is bounded, internally by the rectus capitis posticus major muscle; externally, by the obliquus capitis superior ; and, below, by the obliquus capitis in- ferior muscle. On the left side of the body, the thoracic duct passes in front of the vertebral artery, on its way to empty into the subclavian vein. Within the canal, formed by the transverse processes of the vertebrae, the vertebral artery is accompanied by a plexus of sym- pathetic nerves, and by the vertebral vein, which lies in front of the artery. The cervical nerves, at their escape from the intervertebral foramina, lie behind the vertebral artery as it ascends through the bony canal. Within the cavity of the skull, as the artery winds around the