543 VESSELS AND NERVES OF LARYNX. Cavity of the Larynx. The interior of the larynx is divided into two portions, by the margins of the true vocal cords, and the space between the arytenoid cartilages. This opening is termed the rima glottidis, and measures, in the adult, from three-quarters of an inch to an inch in length. The shape of this opening varies, since it is affected by all the muscular efforts required in respiration and in the production of sound. During tranquil breathing, it is trian- gular in shape with its base directed backwards, while, in violent respirations, it is lozenge-shaped, and, when sound is produced, it is transformed into a narrow slit. The true vocal cords lie below the false vocal cords, and con- sist of strong bands of yellow elastic tissue, which is continuous with, the crico-thyroid membrane, and which is in relation with the thyro-arytenoideus muscle. They are inserted into the an- terior angles of the arytenoid cartilages, and the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage. The superior aperture of the larynx is triangular in form and is bounded, in front, by the epiglottis, and, upon either side, by the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The false vocal cords are situated higher up in the larynx than the true vocal cords, and extend from the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage to the anterior surface of the arytenoid cartilages. In making an incision through the crico-thyroid membrane, the vocal cords are liable to be wounded, and the direction of the incision should therefore be transverse, and as near to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage as possible. The space, which exists upon either side, between the true and the false vocal cords is called the ventricle of the larynx. A space exists between the thyroid cartilage and the superior vocal cord, called the sacculus laryngis, which is a prolongation of the ventricle of the larynx, and which is covered by the thyro- epiglottideus and the two thyro-arytenoid muscles. It contains the openings of a large number of mucous glands, whose secretion serves to lubricate the true vocal cords. Mucous Membrane. The mucous membrane of the larynx is continuous with that ‘ of the pharynx and of the trachea. It is thin and of a pale pink color, and is covered, below the level of the superior vocal cords, and also, in front, as high as the middle of the epiglottis, with