526 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. only to some organs, a complete covering to others, while por- tions of organs are destitute of any peritoneal covering. Below will be found enumerated the conditions of the various viscera of the abdominal cavity, in respect to their peritoneal covering. Covered with Peritoneum. Liver (almost entirely). Stomach (almost entirely). Spleen. Duodenum, ascending portion. Jejunum. Ileum. Transverse arch of colon. Sigmoid flexure of colon. Upper third of rectum. Ovaries. Posterior portion of bladder. Uterus. The mesentery, which connects the small intestine with the abdominal parietes, has its root from the left side of the 2nd lum- bar vertebra to the right sacro-iliac synchondrosis. It extends therefore over a space of about six inches. The anterior border of the mesentery is from twenty to twenty-five feet in length, while its breadth is about four inches. It contains, besides the small intestine, the arteries, veins, glands, and lacteal vessels of the mesentery. The great or gastro-colic omentum consists of four layers, of which the most anterior and the most posterior layer belong to the greater cavity of the peritoneum, and the two internal layers belong to the lesser cavity. The two anterior layers descend from the greater curvature of the stomach and from the spleen, while the two posterior layers ascend to the transverse colon. The lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum extends from the trans- verse fissure of the liver to the lesser curvature of the stomach. Its free border, on the right side, contains the hepatic artery, the bile duct, and the portal vein, and forms the anterior boundary of the foramen of Winslow, which connects the greater and lesser cavities of the peritoneum. The relations of these parts in the transverse fissure of the liver, are as follows : duct, vein, artery, (D. V. A)., from right to left, the vein lying slightly behind the hepatic artery and the hepatic duct. The ligaments, which are formed by the peritoneum, comprise one of the stomach, four ligaments of the liver, five ligaments of the bladder, six ligaments of the uterus, and the suspensory lig- ament of the spleen. Partially covered with Peritoneum. Duodenum (descending and transverse por- tions). Colon, ascending and descending. Rectum, middle portion. Vagina (upper part of). No covering of Peritoneum. Rectum, lower part. Bladder, lower part and neck. Bladder, anterior surface.