229 ACTION OF MUSCLES OF NECK, et minores, complexi, obliqui superiores, splenii capitis et colli, trapezii and trachelo-mastoidei. The sixth or palate group of muscles are essentially muscles of deglutition. By their action the palate is raised and made tense, the opening of the posterior nares is protected from regurgitation of food, the tongue and fauces are made to assist in expelling the bolus of food into the pharynx and the orifice between the pillars of the fauces is diminished in size, thus also assisting in the re- tention of the food within the proper channels. The constrictor muscles of the pharynx (the seventh group,) are also muscles of deglutition. They act subsequently to the action of the elevators of the hyoid bone and the larynx. They are also, important muscles in singing, since they tend to modulate the high notes. The eighth group of muscles, the laryngeal group, consist of seven pairs and one single muscle. Of these, four pairs and one single muscle (the arytenoideus) act upon the vocal cords and control phonation. The action of these muscles is as follows: Muscles which stretch the vocal cords “ “ relax “ “ “ . “ “ open the glottis “ “ close the glottis .The'CRico-THYROiD muscles. The THYRO-ARYTENOID muscles. .The CRICO-ARYTENOID POSTICI. The i CRIC°-ARYTENOID laterales. ] ARYTENOIDEUS. The three muscles which are attached to the epiglottis act as follows: Aryteno-epiglottideus superoris. Muscle compressing the superior opening of' the larynx during deglutition 1 MUSact^degkrit^n.f^'’. d“"ng. ,th? | Thyro-epiglottideus. Muscle compressing the sacculus laryngis.. -{ Aryteno-ePiglottideus inferoris. The origin and insertion of the muscles of the larynx as well as their nervous supply, which have been omitted in this chapter, will be found fully described in subsequent pages of this work, since they can only be clearly understood by a previous descrip- tion of that organ. NERVOUS SUPPLY. In the following pages will be found the muscles of the neck tabulated with their nervous supply indicated by lines running from each of the muscles to the source of its motor function. These tables also show the number of muscles supplied by each nerve, as well as the number of sources, from which each muscle is supplied, in case more than one motor nerve to the muscle exists.