453 INTERNAL PORTION OF CEREBRUM. cerebrum with the retina of the opposite side; and which cross each other at the point of union of the optic tracts. The tuber cinereum is a lamina of gray matter which extends from the corpora albicantia to the optic commissure, to which it is attached in front. In the median line,it is prolonged into the infundibulum. The infundibulum is a process of brain substance which con- nects the base of the brain at the floor of the third ventricle with the pituitary body. It is hollow, and, in the foetus, affords a chan- nel of communication between a cavity in the pituitary body and the third ventricle of the brain. The corpora albicantia or mamillaria are two round, white eminences, situated in front of the posterior perforated space and united to each other in the median line. They are formed by the anterior crura of the fornix and are sometimes called the bulbs of the fornix. The posterior perforated space performs the same function for * the optic thalami as did the anterior space for the corpora striata. The crura cerebri connect the cerebrum with the spinal cord, the cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata. Through them pass the fibres which enter the corpora striata and the optic thalami, and which subsequently radiate to the convolutions of the cere- brum. They form, in connection with the optic tracts, the bound- aries of a lozenge-shaped space, called the inter-peduncular space. The pituitary body lies in a cavity on the upper surface of the body of the sphenoid bone, called the sella turcica. Internal Parts of the Cerebrum. The white or peduncular fibres of the cerebrum connect (i) the grey matter of its surface with the anterior cerebral ganglia (the corpora striata and optic thalami), which fibres are called the corona radiata ; and (2) the interior cerebral ganglia with the pons Varolii, thus forming the crura cerebri. Within the hemispheres of the cerebrum are contained the following points of special interest: (1) the ventricles, whose points of interest have already been described ; (2) four ganglia, viz., the corpora striata and the optic thalami; and (3) two great commis- sures, viz., the corpus callosum and the fornix. The corpus striatum is divided into two parts. One of them is the intra-ventricular portion, visible from the lateral ventricle, which has a bulging anterior extremity or head, and a slender