ANGIOLOG Y. 378 These branches of communication vary with the point at which the ligature is applied to the subclavian artery. Should the first portion of that artery be tied, the vertebral affords a direct blood supply to the arm through the circle of Willis ; and the princeps cervicis (a branch of the occipital artery), joins with the profunda cervicis (a branch of the superior inter- costal artery). The superior thyroid (a branch of the external carotid) also sends blood into the inferior thyroid (a branch of the thyroid axis); while the superior epigastric (a branch of the inter- nal mammary artery) anastomoses with the deep epigastric (a branch of the external iliac artery). The intercostal branches of the thoracic aorta also anastomose with the branches of the axillary artery upon the chest wall. If the second portions be ligated, the direct blood supply is no longer cut off from the branches of the subclavian, viz , the thy- roid axis, the internal mammary, the vertebral, and the superior intercostal arteries. The collateral circulation therefore gains in the number of points of communication, but loses some of those previously mentioned. Thus the vertebral no longer becomes of aid, since it arises internal to the point of ligature. The infe- rior thyroid no longer needs an indirect current from the superior thyroid since it receives a direct supply from the subclavian artery. The internal mammary no longer needs to draw on the deep epigastric for blood, since it now has also its normal supply unimpaired. The internal mammary artery, however, from its direct sup- ply, sends blood to the empty thoracic branches of the axillary. The supra-scapular artery (a branch of the thyroid axis) joins with the acromio-thoracic (a branch of the axillary). The trans- versalis colli (through its posterior scapular branch) sends blood to the sub scapular artery (a branch of the axillary) ; and the dors- alis scapulae branch of the subscapular artery anastomoses with the subscapular branch of the thyroid axis. To recapitulate then, as a guide to memory, these various points of anastomosis after ligation of the subclavian artery has been performed we have the following: