GENERAL INTRODUCTION. 3 In this diagram we see that the main anatomical elements of the body are divided into the solid and the fluid elements. The fluid elements are placed upon the left hand, while the solid ele- ments are arranged upon the right hand side of the page. The two main divisions given off from the central unit or man, are named respectively, hygrology, or the doctrine of the fluid elements, and stereology, or the doctrine of the solid elements. STEREOLOGY is subdivided into sarcology,or the doctrine per- taining to the softer tissues of the body, and skeletology, or the doctrine of the bony framework of the body. Sarcology is shown to include, (i) myology, or the doctrine of the anatomy of the muscular system. (2) neurology,or the doctrine of the anatomy of the nervous system. (3) splanchno- logy or the doctrine of the anatomy of the internal viscera. (4) angiology,oY the doctrine of vessels. (5) adenologytor the doctrine of glandular structures. (6) dermatology, or the doctrine of the skin, and (j) genesiology,or the doctrine of the generative organs. SKELETOLOGY is shown to include both syndesmology, or the doctrine of the anatomy of the joints, and osteology, or the doc- trine of the anatomy of the special bones. FLUIDS. The fluids of the body are divided also in this diagrammatic chart into, (1) The formative, which include the lymph and chyle, (2) The Blood or permanent fluid, and (3) The secretive, which comprise the recrementitious fluids, which are appropriated by the body, and the excrementitious fluids, which are cast off as unfit for nutritive processes. Each of these respective heads will be treated of in this vol- ume, and the description of the various points of anatomical in- terest, pertaining to each, will be so tabulated and arranged, as to afford, to the student, the greatest possible help in the acquisition of accurate and practical anatomical knowledge. All points in Anatomy, which are as yet matters of doubt, will be purposely either omitted or left in question, since it is the desire and inten- tion of the Authors to publish a volume containing only anatomi- cal facts rather than to enter upon speculative ground.