THE AXIS. 3 7 Articular Surfaces .. f C (i.) The body. The Superior set rest upon •< (2.) The pedicles. ' * (3-) The transverse processes. They are large, flat and circular. They look upwards and outwards. The Inferior set are smaller in size and look downwards and forwards. The point of attachment of the check ligaments to the odon- toid process of the axis is marked by two , ough impressions, upon its sides, near to its apex. The two tubercles, produced by the bifid condition of the spi- nous process of the axis, serve for the attachment of the muscles which rotate the head upon the spine. THE AXIS. The axis or the second cervical vertebra is so called from its odontoid process which allows of movement of the atlas upon it. It presents the following points of interest: BODY. This i-s much thicker in front than behind. It is triangular in shape. It is prolongued downwards so as to overlap the third cervical vertebra. The Odontoid process (so called from its resemblance to a tooth.) Gives attachment to the occipito-odontoid ligament, and, laterally, to the check liga- ments (lateral occipito-odontoid.) This articulates with the Atlas, in front* Behind, it lies in relation with the trans- verse ligament. This is constricted into a channel for the transverse ligament. PEDICLES. These are strong and thick and lie beneath the superior articular surface, on either side. They coalesce with the sides of the body and the root of the odontoid. Notches. The superior notches are very shallow and lie be- hind the superior articular surfaces. The inferior notches are very deep and lie in front of the inferior articular surfaces. Laminae. These are very thick and strong in the axis. SPINAL FORAMEN. This opening is smaller than that of the atlas, but it is still very large. SPINOUS process. This process of the axis is bifid, thick, and deeply grooved upon their inferior surface. Transverse processes. These processes of the axis are small and pointed. The foramen, at their bases, inclines obliquely upwards and outwards. This process presents. ■< f (1.) An apex., (2.) A body.... | ^(3.) A neck |