TEMPORAL BONE. 35 and that the remainder consist of five pairs, of which one pair belongs to the cranium, and four pairs belong to the face. Muscles attached to the Frontal Bone. The frontal bone affords attachment to three pairs of muscles. These three pairs of muscles are all situated upon the exterior surface of the cranium, and are as follows: Muscles attached to the Frontal Bone (3 pairs.) Orbicularis Palpebrarum. CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII. Temporal. Development of the Frontal Bone. The frontal bone is developed from two centres of ossification, one for each lateral half of the bone. At birth the bone consists of two pieces which afterwards become united by means of a suture running from the sagittal suture to the root of the nose. This suture in rare cases remains open throughout life. It is called the frontal suture. THE TEMPORAL BONE. The temporal bones are situated upon either side of the base of the cranium. They are called “ temporal” (tempus, time), be- cause grey hairs first appear in the region of these bones. These bones are very irregular in shape and consist of an ap- parent union of three distinct portions,which have been named respectively the squamous, the mastoid and the petrous portions of the bone from certain characteristics which are prominent in each. These portions will be described separately, and the points of anatomical interest pertaining to each will thus be more clearly set forth than if the bone be described as a whole. A. Squamous Portion. This portion of the temporal bone is so-called from its resem- blance to a scale. It is a thin semi-circular plate of bone which lies upon the side of the skull, higher up than either of the other portions of the temporal bone. It presents for examination two surfaces and a circumferential border. Outer Surface. This surface of the squamous portion is convex in shape and enters into the formation of the temporal fossa. It presents for examination, (i.) The temporal ridge, which forms, however, only a small portion of the whole of the entire bony ridge known by this name. This ridge is situated at the posterior portion of the squamous portion of the bone.