ANGIOLOGY. 430 THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. The lymphatic system of the body possesses the property of absorbing certain materials from the tissues and conveying them into the circulation. The name “ lymphatics ” was originally ap- plied to these vessels from the appearance of the fluid which is contained within them, which has a resemblance to water (lym- pha, water). The lymphatic system includes various glands, called lym- phatic glands, through which the lymphatic vessels pass ; also innumerable small lymphatic vessels, which are scattered through- out every part of the body ; and, finally, the lacteal vessels, which are the lymphatic vessels of the small intestines, but to which the name lacteals was applied, from the fact that they contained a milky fluid after or during the process of digestion. These lac- teal vessels also pass through glands, called mesenteric glands, and finally, empty their contents, through the thoracic duct, into the subclavian vein of the left side. The coats of the lymphatic vessels are delicate and nearly transparent, and the fluid, contained within them, can be readily perceived through their walls. They contain a few valves, which are located regularly along their course, and which give to the lymphatic vessels an occasionally beaded appearance. In almost all portions of the body the lymphatic vessels are arranged in a superficial and a deep set, the former of which lie either near the integument or in the submucous tissue, while the latter lie in close relation to the larger blood-vessels, and, al- though fewer in number, are individually of larger size than those of the superficial set. These two sets, however, frequently com- municate with each other, and, in their total aggregate, vastly exceed the veins in number, but as a rule are much smaller in size. Certain structures in the body are said to be destitute of lym- phatics, among which may be mentioned, the substance of the brain and spinal cord, the tendons of muscles, cartilage, the eye, the nails, the hair, the placenta, and the umbilical cord. The ly7nphatic glands, called also conglobate glands, are usually of a pinkish gray color, to which rule there are but few exceptions, and are situated in the course of the lymphatic and lacteal ves- sels. They usually have a hilus along one border and are divided into a cortical and medullary portion; the latter occupying the centre of the gland except at the hilus, where it becomes super- ficially situated. The vessel which supplies the gland, previous