THE INTESTINAL CANAL. 521 orifice and thin at the cardiac extremity. It has a honey-combcd appearance, due to depressions upon its surface, called aveoli, into which depressions the glands of the stomach empty. It contains two kinds of glands, called peptic and mucous follicles, and a few scattered solitary glands, along its lesser curvature. The latter are considered by some as not true solitary glands, but as masses of lymphoid tissue. The peptic follicles are situated near the cardiac extremity, and consist of tubes which are lined, in their upper fourth, with columnar epithelium, and, in their deeper portion, with nucleated cells. The mucous glands are situated near the pyloric extremity, and are subdivided into from two to six tubular branches, which are lined, throughout their whole extent, with columnar epithelium. Vessels, Nerves, and Lymphatics. The vessels, lymphatics, and nerves of the stomach have been described in preceding chapters of this work. THE INTESTINAL CANAL. The intestinal canal extends from the pyloric orifice of the stomach to the anus. It comprises the three divisions of the small intestine, and the three divisions of the large intestine. It is partly ingestive and partly egestive in function, since the small intestine performs the greater part of absorption of the food, and aids also in the diges- tive processes ; while the large intestine does not participate in either. The intestinal canal comprises the following parts, which de- mand a special description. Intestinal canal f! Duodenum. Jejunum. Ileum. f Caecum f Ascending colon. T . . I _ , Transverse colon. Large intestine. ...-(Colon < I Descending colon* f Rectum [ Sigmoid flexure. The DUODENUM, so called from its correspondence, in length, to the breadth of twelve fingers, is ten inches long and is divided into three portions, called the ascending, the descending, and the transverse portions. Its shape is something like that of a horse-shoe, and its three portions measure respectively two and one-half inches, three and one-half inches, and four inches in