THE PERINEUM. 598 Arteries Nerves f Pudic artery, j Artery of the bulb. ■I Transverse perineal artery. Inferior hemorrhoidal artery. [ Superficial perineal artery. ( Inferior hemorrhoidal. •< Superficial perineal. (Pudic. Other important structures. 'Membranous portion of the urethra. Bulbous portion of the urethra. Prostatic portion of the urethra. - Rectum. Prostate gland. Cowper's glands. Neck of the bladder. The SKIN of the perineum is dark in color, is freely movable, is covered with short crisp hairs, and is thrown into a median raphe, which is supplied with abundant sebaceous follicles. The TWO GROUPS of MUSCLES have already been described in the chapter pertaining to myology. The SUPERFICIAL FASCIA of the perineum is in close relation with the skin, and is composed of two layers, called the superficial and the deep layers. The superficial layer is continuous with the subcutaneous fas- cia of the thighs, and is heavily ladened with fat. It is thick, and areolar in structure. The deep layer is fhin and aponeurotic in structure, and lies in close contact with the muscles of the perineum, and serves to bind them down to the root of the penis. It is attached, upon either side, to the rami of the pubes and ischia, thus enclosing the entire perineal structures, and, posteriorly, it becomes blended with the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, after passing beneath the lower border of the transversus perinei muscle. It is continuous, in front, with Buck’s fascia. Buck’s fascia, so called from the American surgeon, who first, in 1846, made its existence prominently recognized, is a con- tinuation of the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia for- wards upon the penis as far as the glans penis ; the body of which organ it completely invests, and, with the suspensory ligament of which, it is continuous, above. This fascia, which now is fre- quently demonstrated, seems to establish the fact that the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perineum is not continuous, in front, with the dartos of the scrotum, as is stated in many of the exhaustive treatises. In cases of urinal infiltration of the perineum, this fascia modifies, until perforated, the direction of