THE HIP-JOINT. 187 Circumferential, (2 ligaments.) j transverse. f Capsular. Connecting, (3 ligaments.) ■< Ilio-femoral. ( Round orligamentum teres. The cotyloid ligament of the hip joint is an incomplete fibro- cartilaginous ring, which is triangular in section, and which is attached, by its base, to the margin of the acetabulum. It is deficient at the cotyloid notch and its sharp free edge closely embraces the head of the femur. Its function is to deepen and to alter the shape of the bony cavity of the acetabulum. The transverse ligament of the hip is a continuation of the cotyloid ligament, which extends from one side of the cotyloid notch to the other, and thus transforms it into a complete foramen. The capsular ligament of the hip arises from the margin of the acetabulum, from the transverse ligament, and, by a few fibres, from the edge of the obturator foramen, and is inserted into the base of the neck of the femur, above ; in front, into the anterior intertrochanteric line ; and, behind, into the posterior intertrochanteric line of the femur. The capsule of the hip joint has three accessories, viz., the ilio-femoral or Y ligament, the ischio-femoral ligament and the pubo-femoral ligament. These three accessory ligaments are all continuous with the fibres of the cap- sular ligament and limit the motions of the joint in certain directions. The ilio-femoral or accessory ligament arises at the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and is inserted into the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line. The lower portion of this ligament is bifurcated, and the two forks are called, respectively, the inner and the outer. This ligament is sometimes called the “ Yligament ” of the hip joint, as it somewhat resembles that letter in shape. It is of great surgical importance, since it materially aids in reduction of dislocations at the hip- joint by movements of the femur. The round ligament or ligamentum teres of the hip joint arises from a depression in the head of the femur in its posterior and inferior quadrant, and is inserted, by two