A TABLE REPRESENTING THE FORAMINA COMMUNICATING WITH THE INTERIOR OF THE' CRANIUM, AND THE ORGANS WHICH THEY TRANSMIT. FORAMEN. PARTS PASSING TgflROUGH THE VARIOUS FORAMINA. SINGLE, OR MESIAL. IN THE ANTERIOR FOSSA. 5 pairs. IN THE I. Anterior Fossa. Foramen Caecum ... II. Posterior Fossa. Foramen Magnum Ethmoidal Fissure ... ... Olfactory Foramina Anterior Ethmoidal Canal (Fronto-Ethmoidal) Posterior Ethmoidal Canal (Fronto-Ethmoidal) Optic Foramen Foramen Lacerum Orbilale (Sphenoidal F issure, Sph< tal foramen) Foramen Rotundum Transmits a small vein from the lining membrane of the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus, and some- times one from the frontal sinus, and Badges also a fold of the dura mater. % Medulla oblongata and its envelopes, the vertebral arteries, and the spinal accessory nerves. The nasal nerve, and the anterior ethmoidal) artery. Filaments of the olfactory nerve and the nasal branches of the ethmoidal arteries. Anterior ethmoidal artery and the nasal nerve. Posterior ethmoidal artery and vein. Optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery. The third, fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth cranial nerves, and filaments of the sympathetic ; & opthalmic vein, a branch of the lachrymal artery, and some- times the lachrymal artery itself, theffllmtal branches of the middle meningeal artery, and a process of the dura mater. Superior maxillary nerve, or second branch of the trifacial or fifth cranial nerve. MIDDLE FOSSA. 8 pairs. IN THE POSTERIOR FOSSA. *Foramen Vesalii ... Foramen Ovale ... I.. Foramen Spinosum Foramen Lacerum Medium (Spheno-Petrosal, Foramen basis cranii) Small Foramen Hiatus Fallopii A small vein, one of the emissary veins ofBantorini. The two roots of the inferior maxillary jjeijve, or third branch of the fifth cranial nerve, the lesser petro- sal nerve, and the small meningeal artery, a branch of the internal maxillary. Middle meningeal artery, the two meningeal jveins, and filamentsof the sympathetic from the cavernous plexus. Internal carotid artery, the carotid plexus, Pie large petrosal nerve, and a meningeal branch from the as- cending pharyngeal artery. Lesser petrosal nerve. Large petrosal nerve, a branch of the middle meningeal artery, which anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid artery, a branch of the posterior auricujlar. Meatus Auditorius Interims Aqueduct of the Vestibule Foramen Lacerum Posterius (Occipito-Petrosal, jugular) *Mastoid Anterior Condyloid *Posterior Condyloid Facial and auditory nerves, and the auditory artery, a branch of the basilar. A small artery and vein, and a process of ffie dura mater. Glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spijnal accessory nerves ; the internal jugular vein, and meningeai branches from the ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries. A small vein which establishes a communication between the occipital vein and lateral sinus, and occasion- ally a small arterial twig from the occipital, called the mastoid artery, which ramifies in the dura mater. The hypoglossal nerve and a meningeal brapeh from the ascending pharyngeal artery. Posterior condyloid vein, establishing a ccffiSmunication with the vertebral vein and lateral sinus. The number of foramina communicating with the interior of the cranium) varies from 36 to 42 : 2 at vertex, rest at base. Of these, one, [called the Parietal, on each side of the sagittal sature, transmits a small vein and sometimes a smali artery, a branch of the occipital. Of the remaining 40, 2 are in the mesial plane : viz., the foramen crecuni and the foramen magnum. Of the remaining 38, 5 pairs are found in the anterior fossa, 8 in the middle fossa, and 6 in the posterior fossa. The foramina are arranged in regular order from before backwards. The names printed in red indicate the Foramina through which one or more of the Cranial nerves pass ; those underlined in red indicate the Foramina of ^xit of branches. Frequently absent—thus causing variations in the number of foramina present