49 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. (B.) The Malar Process. This portion of the superior maxillary bone is triangular in form and presents for examination three surfaces. Its anterior surface is concave in form and forms a part of the canine fossa. Its posterior surface is also concave in its form and enters into the construction of the zygomatic fossa. Its superior surface is roughened for articulation with the malar bone. (C.) The Nasal Process. This process,like the one preceding, is of a triangular form. It presents for examination two surfaces and two borders. The outer surface is concave and affords attachment for the obicularis palpebrarum, and the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi muscles and also for the tendo oculi. The inner surface presents for examination the following points of interest: (i.) A roughened portion, for articulation with the ethmoid bone. (2.) A superior turbinated crest, which articulates with the middle turbinated bone of the ethmoid, which has been described in connection with the inner surface of the body of the bone. (3.) An inferior turbinated crest, which separates the two grooves corresponding to the middle and the inferior meatuses of the nose. The anterior border of the nasal process is thin and is serrated, at its upper portion, for articulation with the nasal bone, while, at its lower portion, it becomes continuous with the margin of the anterior opening of the nasal fossa. The posterior border presents a groove which helps to form the nasal duct. This groove articulates, at its inner margin, with the lachrymal bone, while its outer margin forms a part of the cir- cumference of the orbit and terminates in the lachrymal tubercle. (D.) The Alveolar Process. The alveolar process of the superior maxillary bone forms, upon either side, the horse-shoe curve of the line of the teeth. It is much thicker at its posterior portion than in front, since the teeth are wider behind, and it presents, in the adult, articulations or alveoli for eight teeth, and, in the child, for five teeth only.