ANGIOLOGY. 360 A Table of the Branches of the Internal Carotid Artery. internal car- otid ARTERY. (8 branches.) In petrous portion ... ,(i branch).. -{ Tympanic. I Arterise receptaculi. Opthalmic artery. (13 branches). In cavernous portion (3 branches) < Anterior meningeal. “ ( Ophthalmic. f Anterior cerebral. f In cerebral portion... .(4 branches)-! cerebral. v ' | rostenor communicating. [Anterior choroid. Palpebral. Lachrymal. Supra-orbital. ’ Orbital branches (6) - Ethmoidal. | Pos^rior Frontal. [Nasal. ^ Ocular branches (6) Muscular., j iXrior? !Long. Short. Anterior. .Arteria centralis retinae. The tympanic branch enters the tympanum through a foramen of minute size in the carotid canal. The arterice receptaculi include several branches, which are distributed to the pituitary body, the Gasserian ganglion, the walls of the cavernous sinus and the adjacent dura mater. The anterior meningeal branch supplies the dura mater of the frontal region of the skull. The OPHTHALMIC ARTERY is a large trunk which escapes from che cavity of the skull, through the optic foramen, where it lies on the outer side of the optic nerve. Within the orbit this vessel crosses the optic nerve, to reach the inner side of the orbit, and passes forwards to the inner angle of the eye, where it divides into two terminal branches, the nasal and frontal, and anasto- moses with the facial artery. The branches of this artery are twelve in number although the number is often given as nine, by leaving out the subdivisions of the ethmoidal, muscular and ciliary sets. They are divided into two groups called, respectively, the orbital group and the oc- ular group. The branches of each of these groups are shown in the preceding table. The lachrymal branch is the largest branch of the opthalmic artery and it supplies the lachrymal gland and conjunctiva of the upper eyelid. It anastomoses with the deep temporal, the trans- verse facial, the middle meningeal, and the palpebral arteries. The supra-obital branch of the ophthalmic artery passes through