248 MYOLOGY. prominently effect either inspiration or expiration, although some of these muscles have not yet been described in this volume. MUSCLES OF INSPIRATION. Muscles of ordinary inspiration. Ordinary auxiliary muscles. ' Diaphragm. Scalenus anticus. Scalenus medius. - Scalenus posticus. External intercostals. Sternal portion of internal intercostals. 12 Levatorf.s cost arum, j Serratus posticus superior. "I Sterno-mastoid. f Levator anguli scapulae. Trapezius (superior portion,) Extraordinary auxiliary muscles.... •< Pectoralis minor. | Pectoralis major (inferior portion.) (^Serratus magnus. All of these muscles tend to increase the capacity of the chest, when the thorax ceases to be the fixed point of resistance. They are therefore muscles of inspiration. MUSCLES OF EXPIRATION. {Osseous portion of the internal intercostals. Infra-costales. Transversalis abdominis. ( Obliquus abdominis externus. , . . . Triangularis sterni. Auxiliary muscles in expiration.^ OBLIQU„s ABDOminis internus. f Sacro-lumbalis. The muscles included in this table are capable*of directly dimin- ishing the capacity of the chest, and are therefore muscles of ex- piration. During inspiration, the vertical measurement of the cavity of the chest is increased from two to three inches, and the heart is drawn downwards by the diaphragm, on account of the attach- ment of the pericardium to its central tendon. The cavity of the thorax is diminished in its vertical diameter, during the passive condition of the diaphragm, or when the ab- dominal viscera are enlarged or distended ; hence the oppression felt in the chest after a full meal, or from distension of the stomach or intestines with gas. The diaphragm may, however, be an important agent in other acts than those of inspiration and expiration, since, in a state of contraction, it compresses the oesophageal opening of the stomach through its muscular fibres. It is therefore to be remembered that the cardiac end of the stomach is closed during inspiration, and thus the possibility of regurgitation of its contents from the pressure of the diaphragm is prevented.