91 VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE. the vertebrae and partly by the inter-articular fibro-cartilages in- serted between the bodies of each of the vertebrae. In counting the vertebrae upon the living subject, friction along the spinous processes will render them prominent. The spines of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae can- not easily be felt, since they recede from the perpendicular line, in order to allow of free extension of the neck. In the cervical region’the spinal opening is broad and triangu- lar in its shape. In the dorsal region the spinal opening is small and circular in its shape. In the lumbar region the spinal opening is triangular in shape and intermediate in its size. Within the cavity of the sacrum, the spinal opening is large and triangular above, small and flattened in the middle of the bone, and, below, the posterior wall of the canal is often deficient. The spinal column, if considered as a whole, often exhibits a slight lateral curvature, whose convexity is directed towards the right side of the trunk. This is probably the result, however, of excessive use of the right arm in preference to the left, since an opposite curvature has been occasionally noticed in persons who have habitually used the left hand in preference. On a lateral view of the spinal column4 we notice, in addition to the curves previously mentioned, the following points: (1.) The antero-posterior diameters of the bodies of the true vertebrce increase steadily, from above downwards, till the last lumbar vertebra is reached. (2.) The pedicles of the cervical region are concealed. (3.) The intervertebral foramina increase in size, from above downwards. (4.) The intervertebral foramina change their relation to the transverse processes, since, in the cervical region, they lie between the transverse processes, while, in the dorsal and lumbar regions, they lie in front of those processes. (5.) The transverse processes change in their relation to the pedicles and the articular processes, as indicated in the table below. Relation of the Transverse Process of the Vertebra. Transverse Process. Pedicle. A rticular Process. In the cervical region. In the dorsal region. In the lumbar region. Outside of Behind Behind In front of Behind In front of