573 THE VAGINA. The aperture of the vagina is surrounded by the sphincter vaginae muscle, and, in the virgin, is often closed by the hymen. The internal organs of generation of the female comprise, 1. The vagina. 2. The uterus. 3. The appendages to the uterus. The VAGINA is a musculo-erectile tube, which serves to estab- lish a communication between the cavity of the uterus and the external world. It is curved to accommodate itself to the axis of the pelvic cavity, and measures about four inches in length, upon its anterior wall, and from five to six inches, upon its pos- terior wall. The anterior wall of the vagina is in relation with the urethra and the base of the bladder ; the posterior wall is in relation with the rectum, in its lower three-fourths, and, in its upper fourth, it is covered by peritoneum ; while its lateral walls are in relation with the broad ligaments of the uterus, the levator ani muscle, and the pelvic fascia. The coats of the vagina are three in number, and are called, from within outwards, the mucous, the erectile, and the muscular coats. Near to the aperture of the vagina, may be perceived two points of anatomical interest, called the bulbs of the vestibule, and the glands of Bartholine. The bulbs of the vestibule consist of two distinct plexuses of veins intermixed with erectile tissue, which are supposed to be analogous to the two halves of the bulb of the male urethra. Thz glands of Bartholine are situated upon either side of the vaginal aperture, and are analogous to the glands of Cowper, in the male sex. The vagina serves the three-fold purpose, of a channel for the escape of menstrual blood, a means of exit for the child in parturi- tion, and a means of entrance for the seminal fluid to the cavity of the uterus. The FEMALE URETHRA, although not properly one of the organs of the genital apparatus, differs markedly from that of the male, and is best considered in connection with the vagina, since it is contained between its coats. This canal is about one and a half inches long, and possesses a very high degree of dilatability. It passes between the coats of the anterior wall of the vagina, and opens at the posterior part of the vestibule. It pierces, like the urethra of the male sex, the triangular ligament of the female perineum, and is surrounded