DEVELOPMENT OF VERTEBRAL. 89 Structure of the Vertebrae. The structure of a vertebra differs in the different parts of the bone. The body is composed of light spongy cancellous tis- sue, having a thin coating of compact tissue on the surface, which is perforated by numerous orifices, some being of large size, for the passage of vessels. In the interior of the body are one or two large canals which converge either to one large aperture or to sev- eral smaller apertures upon its posterior surface. These canals serve for the reception of the veins which con- vey the blood from the bone. The arch of each vertebra and the processes projecting from it are covered by a thick layer of compact tissue. Development of the Vertebrae. A vertebra, as a rule, originally consists of three primary carti- laginous portions, one for each lamina and its subsequent processes, and one for the body. In the sixth week of foetal life, ossification commences in the laminae, and two weeks later, in the body. At 16 years of age three secondary centres of ossification ap- pear. One of these (occasionally two) is for the spinous process, and one for each transverse process. At about the 21st year of age, two new secondary centres of ossification appear in the form of two plates, situated upon the upper and the lower surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae. Thus we have three primary and five secondary centres of ossi- fication in each of the vertebrae, and it is not until the 30th year of life that the entire skeleton of the vertebral column is thor- oughly ossified and all the component parts of each vertebra united. Exceptions to this general rule of development, however, may be found in the axis, atlas, vertebra prominens, and in the lumbar vertebrae. In the ATLAS, ossification commences, before birth, from two centres, located in the lateral masses, and progresses backwards rapidly into the posterior arch, while the anterior arch is entirely cartilaginous at the date of birth. By the 2nd or 3rd year the ossification of the posterior arch is completed, and the anterior arch is either gradually encroached upon or a special centre of ossification appears within it. In the ATLAS six centres of ossification are required, before birth, for its development. Two of these are in the body of the odon- toid process, one is for the body of the bone, one for each of the lateral masses, and one for the apex of the odontoid process.