THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 79 SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. The skeleton of the trunk may be sub-divided into three parts, as follows: The VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The THORAX. The BONY PELVIS. THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The true vertebral column is composed of twenty-four bones, placed one above the other, and extends from the occipital bone above, to the sacrum below. These bones are termed the true vertebra, in contradistinction to the sacrum and the coccyx, which are termed the false vertebra. The vertebrae are named in numerical order, from above down- wards, or, in other words, from the occipital bone to the sacrum, according to the region in which they are situated. Hence the name of any particular vertebra must be expressed by two adjec- tives ; one indicating the region in which it is situated, and the other the place it occupies in that region. In the cervical region, there are three vertebrae, which, in addi- tion to the numerical, have also special names, viz., the first cer- vical or atlas, the second cervical or axis, and the seventh cervical or the vertebra prominens. Before proceeding to the description of the vertebrae, it will be well to consider the nature and function of this important portion of the skeleton, which may be thus stated : 1st. It provides a column to sustain the weight of the head and trunk. 2d. It affords a canal to lodge an important organ, the spinal cord. 3d. It affords, by means of numerous intervertebral foramina, a means of communication between the spinal cord and the various parts of the body, through the spinal nerves. 4th. It affords, by means of its spinous and transverse pro- cesses, a system of levers upon which the muscles of the trunk may act. 5th. As the column must be flexible and elastic in order to allow of the various motions of the trunk, it must consist of a number of pieces united together by means of cartilage and liga- ments. 6th. In order to afford greater security to the connection be- tween important parts than would be ensured by ligaments only,