THE HA SAL FOSS AS. 67 Into the formation of each of the nasal fossae, nine bones enter, and fourteen into that of both, as shown by the following table: Total, 14 Each of the nasal fossae presents for special examination the following component parts: A roof, a floor, an inner wall, an outer wall, an anterior opening, a posterior opening. The ROOF of each nasal fossa is narrow and forms an arch, and its longest axis lies in the antero-posterior direction. It presents the following points, which have been previously mentioned in the descriptions of the nasal, frontal, ethmoid and sphenoid bones, each of which participates in its construction. (1,) The anterior portion of the arch of the roof, which is formed by the nasal bone and the nasal spine of the frontal bone. (2.) The horizontal portion of the roof, which is formed by the under surface of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. (3.) The posterior portion of the arch of the roof, which is formed by the body of the sphenoid bone. (4.) The opening into the sphenoidal sinuses which lies at the posterior portion of the roof. (5.) The olfactory foramina and the nasal slit. The FLOOR of each nasal fossa is concave, from side to side, and is formed by the palate processes of the superior maxillary bone and the palate bone. It possesses for examination the following points of interest: (1.) The suture between the two bones forming the floor. (2.) The upper orifice of the anterior palatine canal. (3.) The anterior nasal spine of the superior maxillary bone. (4.) The posterior nasal spine of the palate bone. (5.) The crest upon both the bones forming the floor, which articulates with the vomer. The INNER WALL of each of the nasal fossae consists of the vertical septum which separates the two. It is formed principally of two bones, and, to a small extent, by five other bones, as is shown by the following enumeration: The Nasal Fossae have 14 bones which enter into their formation, viz. : 5 pairs of bones Mesial bones Superior maxillary, Lachrymal. Palate. Inferior turbinated.