INTERNAL TARTS OF CEREBRUM. 455 beneath the corpus callosum, with which it is continuous behind; but it is separated from it, in front, by the septum lucidum. It may be described as consisting of two symmetrical halves, one for either hemisphere. These two portions are joined together, in the middle line, where they form the body of the fornix, but are sep- arated from one another in front and behind ; in front, forming the anterior crura, and behind, the posterior crura of the fornix. The body of the fornix is triangular in form ; narrow in front, broad behind. Its upper surface is connected, in the median line, to the septum lucidum, in front, and the corpus callosum behind. Its under surface rests upon the velum interpositum, which sep- arates it fropi the third ventricle, and the inner portion of the optic thalami. Its lateral edges form, on each side, part of the floor of the lateral ventricles, and are in contact with the choroid plexuses. The anterior crura of the fornix arch downwards towards the base of the brain, separated from each other by a narrow interval. They are compose^ of white fibres, which descend through a quantity of grey matter in the lateral walls of the third ven- tricle, and are placed immediately behind the anterior commissure. At the base of the brain, the white fibres of each crus form a sud- den curve upon themselves, spread out and form the outer part of the corresponding corpus albicans. The anterior crura of the fornix are connected, in their course, with the optic commissure, the white fibres covering the optic thalamus, the peduncle of the pineal gland, and the superficial fibres of the taenia semicircularis. The posterior crura of the fornix, at their commencement, are intimately connected by their upper surfaces with the corpus callosum ; diverging from one another, they pass downwards into the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, being continuous with the concave border of the hippocampus major. The lateral thin edges of the posterior crura have received the name corpus fimbriatum, already described. On the under surface of the for- nix, towards its posterior part, between the diverging posterior crura, may be seen Some transverse lines, and others longitudinal or oblique. This portion of the fornix has been termed the lyra, from the fancied resemblance it bears to the strings of a harp. Between the anterior pillars of the fornix and the anterior ex- tremities of the thalami optici, an oval aperture is seen on each side, the foramen of Monroe. These two openings descend to- wards the middle line, and, joining together, lead into the upper part of the third ventricle. These openings communicate with