THE MOUTH. 517 and is of large size. Within it, are contained large vessels and nerves, which are forced to pass through it, either to reach the skull or to escape from its cavity. Its duct is called Steno s duct. It opens opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, by penetrating the substance of the cheek and running obliquely beneath its mucous membrane. The submaxillary gland is intermediate in size between the parotid and the sublingual glands. Its duct is called Wharton s duct. It is about two inches long, and opens at the summit of a small papilla on the side of the froenum of the tongue. The submaxmillary gland lies in close relation with the facial artery, and the submaxillary ganglion. The sublingual gland is the smallest of the three glands of the mouth. It is of an elongated shape, and lies beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, where it forms a prominence near the fraenum of the tongue. Its ducts are from eight to eighteen in number, and are called the ducts of Rivinus. They open into the mouth, near the fraenum linguae or into the duct of Wharton. One of the ducts of Rivinus is longer than the others and is often called the duct of Bartholine. Within the cavity of the mouth the following points maty be felt and perceived, which have a practical bearing. 1. The coronoidprocess of the lower jaw, whose anterior border is quite prominent. 2. The hamular process of the sphenoid bone, which can be felt behind the last molar tooth of the upper jaw. 3. The lower portion of the pterygoid fossa and the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone, in about the same situation as the hamular process. 4. A space between the coroiioid process and the tuberosity of the lower jaw, where deep temporal abscesses may require puncture. 5. The posterior palatine artery, which escapes at the inner side of the last molar tooth, and about one-third of an inch in front of the hamular process of the sphen- noid. 6. Thepterygo-maxillary ligament, which forms a prominent fold behind the last molar tooth, when the mouth is wide open. 7. The gustatory nerve, whose situation close to the last molar tooth of the lower jaw can be detected by the sense of extreme tenderness to pressure. This nerve is often