THE LIVER. 52 7 THE LIVER. The liver is the largest glandular organ in the body, and is mainly intended for the secretion of bile, although other func- tions of perhaps equal importance are performed by it. It is sit- uated in the right hypochondriac, the epigastric, and the left hypochondriac regions ; and it weighs from three to four pounds, when of normal size. It measures from ten to twelve inches in a transverse direction, from six to eight inches in the antero- posterior direction, and about three inches in the vertical direc- tion, in its thickest portion, which corresponds with the back por- tion of the right lobe. The liver presents for examination an upper surface, an under surface, an anterior border, a posterior border, a right extremity, and a left extremity. The upper surface is convex, and lies in relation with the dia- phragm. It is divided into two lobes of unequal size, called the right and left lobes of the liver, by a fold of peritoneum called the suspensory or broad ligament of the liver. The under surface is also divided by a fissure, called the longi- tudinal fissure, into two unequal portions, which form the right and left lobes. It presents also certain portions of the liver substance to which the names lobulus quadratus, lobulus Spi- gelii and lobulus caudatus are applied; and also certain grooves, to which the names fissures are given, and which contain, respec- tively, the vena cava, the gall-bladder, and the ductus venosus, and a deep depression called the transverse fissure, or the gateway of the liver, where the portal vein and the hepatic artery enter, and the hepatic duct escapes. This surface is in relation with the stomach and duodenum, the hepatic flexure of the colon, and the right kidney and its supra-renal capsule. The right extremity is thick and rounded, and is in relation with the diaphragm and ribs. The left extremity is thin and flattened, and is in relation with the stomach and sometimes with the spleen. The anterior border corresponds, in male adults, with the free border of the ribs, but, in women and children, frequently extends below it. It affords attachment, by a deep notch, to a portion of the broad ligament of the liver. The free border of the liver can be most easily detected, by the uneducated hand, belovu the ensi- form cartilage, since it extends in this region, nearly half the dis- tance between the end of the sternum and the umbilicus.