184 ARTHROLOGY OR SYNDESMOLOGY. The synovial membranes of the carpus are five in number, and are situated as follows: Lower end of the ulna. Sigmoid cavity of the radius. Upper surface of the triangular inter- articular fibro-cartilage. Above 1 -^ower enc^ ra-dius. I Interarticular fibro-cartilage. J Scaphoid. Semilunar. Cuneiform bones, f The contiguous surfaces of the proxim- al and distal rows of carpal bones. The third is very extensive and lines the fol- I The contiguous surfaces of the distal lowing parts | row of carpal bones. I The carpal extremities of the inner four (_ metacarpal bones, The fourth is situated between the trapezium and the metacarpal bones of the thumb. The fifth is situated between the cuneiform and the pisiform bones. The first (membrana sacciformis) lines the following parts: The second lies above the bones of the carpus and lines the following j. arts " The furrow between the thick skin of the palm and the skin of the forearm, on the anterior surface of the wrist, is a guide to the upper border of the annular ligament and the articulation be- tween the first and second rows of the carpus. Carpo-metacarpal Articulations. The trapezium and the metacarpal bone of the thumb are united by a capsular ligament and are lined by a separate synovial membrane. The four inner metacarpal bones unite with the carpus by four arthrodial joints, which are formed as follows: 2nd. Metacarpal bone and trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum. 3rd. Metacarpal bone and os magnum. 4th. Metacarpal bone and os magnum and unciform. 5th. Metacarpal bone and unciform. The ligaments of these joints are called the dorsal, the palmar, and the interosseous ligaments. The dorsal ligaments are two in number to each metacarpal bone, with the exception of the fifth, which has but one. The palmar ligaments are three in number and are connected with the third metacarpal bones. The interosseous ligaments connect the third and fourth meta- carpal bones to the os magnum and the unciform bones. Metacarpo-Metacarpal Articulations, The metacarpal bone of the thumb is not connected to the other bones of the metacarpus.