470 NEUROLOGY. Apparent Origin of the Cranial Nerves. (1) Olfactory nerve .From the olfactory bulbs. (2) Optic nerve By the optic tracts, from the corpora quad* rigemina. (3) Motor oculi nerve Front part of pons Varolii. (4) Trochlear nerve Upper part of valve of Vieussens. (5) Trifacial nerve Side of the pons Varolii. (6) Abducens nerve Corpuspyramidale, close to pons Varolii. (7) Facial nerve Lateral tract of medulla oblongata. (8) Auditory nerve Linece transversce of 4th ventricle. (9) Glosso-PHARYNGEAL nerve Groove between olivary and restiform bodies in medulla oblongata. (10) Pneumogastric or vagus nerve. .. .Lateral tract of medulla oblongata. (11) Spinal accessory nerve Lateral tract of medulla oblongata and the spinal cord (to 5th cervical). (12) Hypoglossal nerve Groove between olivary and pyramidal bodies in medulla oblongata. The first pair of cranial nerves resemble the nerves of the sympathetic system, since they are small in size, soft in texture, and destitute of the white substance of Schwann. The olfactory tracts, by some anatomists, are described as a part of the olfac- tory nerve. The second pair of cranial nerves are each pierced by the arteria centralis retinae, and are distributed to one of the layers of the retina. An association of an important character exists between these nerves and the third pair of nerves, which regulates the adap- tation of the pupil to the amount of light required by the eye. The third pair of nerves, from their association with the ciliary ganglia of the orbits, control the contraction of the pupils, in ad- dition to being the great motor nerves of the muscles of each eyeball. The first four pairs of cranial nerves, in addition to the first branch of the fifth pair (ophthalmic nerve), have important relations within the cavernous sinus, before their exit from the cranial cav- ity ; and they bear relations also with each other, both during their passage through and after their exit from the sphenoidal fissure, and subsequently within the orbit. The nerves which go to the orbit comprise the 2nd, 3d and 4th cranial nerves, the ophthalmic branch of the 5th, the orbital branches of the superior maxillary nerve and of Meckel’s gang- lion, and the 6th nerve. Some of these nerves have important relations in one or all of the three following situations: I. In the cavernous sinus. 2. In the sphenoidal fissure. 3. In the cavity of the orbit itself.