ANGIOLOGY. 352 The lingual artery lies, at first, in close relation to the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, to which its direction is nearly parallel, and then suddenly ascends in nearly a perpendicular direction, to the under surface of the tongue, where it is again deflected and passes in a tortuous course towards the tip of the tongue, under the name of the ranine artery. It lies in relation with the middle constrictor muscle, in its first portion ; but is subsequently crossed by the tendon of the digastric muscle and also by the stylo-hyoid and the hyoglossus muscles. It is separated from the hypoglossal nerve by the hyo- glossus muscle. In the mouth, its ranine branch is extremely superficial and its pulsation can often be detected by the finger. The lingual artery is often divided, near its point of origin, in cases of cut-throat or it may be involved in injuries to the mouth or in deep ulcerations of the tongue. FACIAL ARTERY. The facial artery arises most frequently at a distance of about one inch from the bifurcation of the common carotid artery. It is the largest branch of the external carotid artery and its course may be divided, for convenience of description, into a cervical portion and a facial portion. The cervical portion passes obliquely upwards and forwards, beneath the body of the lower jaw, to the submaxillary gland, in which it lies imbedded in a groove. The facial portion extends upward over the body of the jaw, crossing at the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle, and ascends upwards and forwards across the cheek to the angle of the mouth ; it then passes up the side of the nose, and terminates at the internal canthus of the eye, under the name of the angular artery. This artery is remarkable for its tortuosity, and its pulsations can easily be detected by the finger at the point where it crosses the angle of the body of the jaw. It is accompanied, throughout its entire course by the facial vein, which, unlike the artery is not tortuous ; but, upon the face, it is separated from it by a con- siderable interval. It is crossed, in the face, by the branches of the facial nerve; and the infra-orbital nerve lies beneath it. The branches of the facial are ten in number, four of which are given off in its cervical portion, and the remaining six upon the face.