Ill THE ISCHIUM. (1) The anterior superior spinous process. This portion of the ilium gives attachment to three muscles and one ligament. The muscles are the sar- torius, the iliacus, and the tensor vaginae femoris. The ligament is called Poupart's ligament. (2) A notch, for the lower fibres of the sartorius muscle and for the external cutaneous nerve. (3) The anterior inferior spinous process. This gives attachment to the straight tendon of the rectus muscle. (4) A broad, shallow groove, for tne passage of the psoas magnus and the iliacus muscles, from the cavity of the pelvis. Posterior Border. This portion of the ilium is shorter and more horizontal than the anterior border. It presents for examination the following points: (1) The posterior superior spinous process, for the erector spinae muscle and for the oblique sacro-iliac ligament. (2) The posterior inferior spinous process, for part of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. (3) The upper border of the great sacro-sciatic notch. THE ISCHIUM. The ischium is the lower, posterior and thickest portion of the os innominatum. It bounds the obturator foramen behind and in its lower portion, and presents for examination the following com- ponent parts: (1) The body of the ischium. (2) “ tuberosity of the ischium. (3) “ ascending ramus of the ischium Body of Ischium. This portion of the bone possesses three surfaces; called re- spectively the exterior, interior and posterior surfaces, and three borders called the anterior, the outer and the inner borders. The exterior surface embraces a little more than two-fifths of the acetabulum, including the lower part of its rim, a portion of the colytoid notch, and the greater portion of its central depres- sion. It also exhibits a deep groove along its length, for the pas- sage of the tendon of the obturator externus muscle, and it as- sists in forming the posterior part of the circumference of the ob- turator foramen, from which portion arise the obturator externus and the adductor magnus muscles.