ART1CULA TION OF RADIUS AND ULNA. 8l Radio-Ulnar Articulations. The bones of the forearm are connected together at their upper extremities, their shafts, and their lower extremities. Thus three articulations are formed, called the superior, the middle and the inferior. Superior articulation. This is a lateral ginglymus joint between the circumference of the head of the radius and the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. The opposing surfaces of bone are covered with cartilage and a synovial membrane is interposed between them, which is continu- ous with that of the elbow joint. Its only ligament is called the annular or orbicular ligament. The orbicular ligament is a strong flattened band of fibrous tissue, which forms four-fifths of the circumfer- ence of a circle and which surrounds the upper part of the neck of the radius. It is attached to the anterior and the posterior margins of the lesser sig- moid cavity of the ulna. The inner surface of this ligament is lined with a synovial membrane, while the outer surface affords attachment for the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint. Middle articulation. The shafts of the ulna and the radius are joined, at their con- tiguous borders, by two ligaments, as follows: The oblique or round ligament, which is a narrow fasciculus extending downwards and outwards from the tubercle, at the base of the coronoid process of the ulna, to the shaft of the radius, one half inch below its tubercle. The interosseous ligament, which is a broad and thin plane of aponeurotic fibres, extending, obliquely downwards and inwards, from the interosseous ridge on the radius to that of the ulna. It is deficient, above, commencing about one inch below the tubercle of the radius; is broader in its middle portion than at either extremity ; and, through the space left by its deficiency above, the posterior interosseous vessels pass. Inferior articulation. This is a lateral ginglymus joint formed by the head of the ulna and the sigmoid cavity of the radius. These surfaces are covered with cartilage and are connected together by the following ligaments.