74 THE SKULL IN GENET A L. Each of these regions at the base of the skull contains points deserving of enumeration and they will therefore be individually described. A. Roof of the Mouth. This portion of the base of the skuII is formed by the palate processes of the two superior maxillary bones and by the horizon- tal plates of the two palate bones. It is bounded, at its circum- ference, by tfie alveolar border of the two superior maxillary bones. It is concave in form, uneven upon its surface, and presents a crucial suture, which indicates the four bones which compose it. It presents, from before backwards, the following points of interest. (i.) The lower openings of the anterior palatine canals. (2.) The foramen of Stenson, in the mesial line. (3.) The foramina of Scarpa for the naso-palatine nerves. (4.)'The posterior palatine foramina. (5.) The accessory palatine foramina for the small palatine nerves. (6.) A transverse ridge of bone for the aponeurosis of the tensor palati muscles. B. The Posterior Aperture of the Nares. These large openings (one on either side of the mesial line) are bounded separately as follows: The POSTERIOR NARES are bounded as fol-" lows: C Horizontal plates of the Palate bone. Below by the •] Posterior nasal spine of the Palate bone. • Internal pterygoid plates of the Externally by the.. Sphenoid bone. Hamular process of Sphenoid. Internally by the... Vomer. Above by the ^ Body of the Sphenoid bone. -I These apertures allow of communication between the nasal cavities and the upper portion of the pharynx. Superiorly, there is perceived at the margin of these apertures, near to the body of the sphenoid bone, two points deserving of* mention, viz.: (1.) The expanded alee of the vomer. (2.) The pterygo palatine canals. C. Under Surface of the Basilar Process. The basilar process of the occipital bone lies at about the cen- tre of the base of the skull, in the mesial line. It is situated between the foramen magnum and the posterior aperture of the