THE KNEE JOINT. l9 % of the muscles of the calf, and formed chiefly of verti- cal fibres, but they are looked upon by many as a part of the capsular ligament. The internal lateral ligament of the knee connects the inner tuberosity of the femur with the inner tuberosity and the upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia. It is very broad and is equal in strength to the two ligaments in the opposite side of the joint. The external lateral ligament of the knee joint consists of two portions, a long and a short portion. The long por- tion connects the outer tuberosity of the femur to the outer part of the head of the fibula; while the short portion connects the outer tuberosity of the femur with the apex of the styloid process of the fibula. The capsular ligament of the knee joint lies beneath the other ligaments above mentioned, and in close relation with the synovial membrane of the joint. It is attached, above, to the lower end of the femur, just above its ar- ticular surface ; in front, to the upper border and the sides of the patella; and, below, to the margins of the head of the tibia and to the semilunar fibro-cartilages of the knee-joint. It is an incomplete investment of the joint, since it is present only where deficiencies exist between the other extrinsic ligaments. The internal semilunar fibro-cartilage covers the corresponding articular surface of the upper end of the tibia. It is narrower and longer than the external. Its convex border is blended with the capsular ligament of the knee-joint. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage covers the external articular surface of the end of the tibia. Its anterior extremity is blended with the anterior crucial ligament, while its posterior extremity is blended with the pos- terior crucial ligament. The two semilunar fibro-cartilages of the knee serve to increase the exte?it and the depth of the tibial sockets and also to modify their form to a perfect adaptation to the curves of the femoral condyles, during flexion and extension of the joint. The transverse ligament of the knee-joint is a small slip of fibres which connects, transversely, the two semilunar cartilages and which is situated near to their anterior extremities.