ANGIOLOGY. 333 THE AORTA. The aorta, the main trunk of the arterial system, arises at the upper portion of the left ventricle, at a point corresponding with the inferior surface of the semilunar valves and located on the external aspect of the chest, at the left edge of the sternum, be- tween the costo-sternal articulations of the third and fourth ribs. This point of origin corresponds, posteriorly, to the sixth dorsal vertebra, when the respiratory act reaches the end of expiration. The aorta may be divided into two distinct portions, viz., the THORACIC PORTION, and the ABDOMINAL PORTION. The thoracic portion of the aorta may be subdivided into a curved portion called the ARCH OF THE AORTA and a dorsal por- tion to which the name THORACIC AORTA is usually applied in contradistinction to the arch, although the name is, in reality, a misnomer unless the arch itself be included. The first portion, or the ARCH OF THE AORTA,‘consists of three divisions or segments, called the ascending, transverse and descending portions of the arch. These segments, at their points of junction, reveal different degrees of curvature, giving to the arch, as a whole, an inter- rupted and not a continuous curve. The ASCENDING PORTION of the arch commences at the infe- rior surface of the semilunar valves and passes upwards, at an angle towards the right side of the body, for a distance which varies from two to three inches. It becomes continuous, at its termination, with the transverse portion, at a point correspond- ing, externally, with the right side of the sternum, at its junction zvith the second rib. The direction of the first portion of the aorta is such that a continuation of the axis of the left ventricle, when that organ is in repose, impinges upon the convex surface of the aorta at a spot nearly corresponding to the point of junction between the ascending and transverse portions of the arch, but this point must vary somewhat, during life, with the rotary movement of the heart. Here is situated a bulging of the aorta, in health, called the sinus magnum, and it is here that we first detect disease in the form of atheromatous degeneration and aneurismal dilatations. This fact seems certainly to accord with the approximate an- atomical accuracy of this statement of the direction of the ventricular axis, since the current of blood, being thrown with the greatest force in the direct axis of the ventricle would, of