ANGI0L0GY. 420 The plantar interosseous arteries supply digital branches to the plantar surface of three and a half toes on the outer side of the foot. The anterior perforating arteries pass through the front part of the outer three interosseous spaces, and, like the pos- terior perforating, join with the dorsal interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery. THE VEINS OF THE BODY. The system of veins which accompany the arteries of the various portions of the body,‘are in many instances given the same name as the artery which they accompany, thus rendering a separate description of them unnecessary; while, with others, their points of origin are too irregular to admit of any positive statements concerning them. Certain venous trunks possess a greater importance than others, since either from their situa- tion, their tributaries, or their relation to other parts, they are associated with points of practical interest and value. Some veins unlike the arteries contain valves in their interior, which consist of pouches adherent to their walls, and which tend, when present, to prevent the backward flow of blood, when the circulation is in opposition to gravity. We therefore fail to find them in the larger venous trunks, where the circulation^ if in opposition to gravity, is assisted greatly by the vacuum created within the thorax during the act of inspiration; and in certain veins, where the current of blood is accelerated by gravity, as in the neck, Nature, no longer requiring these valves as a protective measure, has omitted them either entirely or in part. Veins admit of a three-fold division, viz., into superficial veins, deep veins, and sinuses. The superficial veins return the blood from the integument and the superficial structures of the body, and take their course, as a rule, between the layers of superficial fascia, until they reach con- venient situations for their termination in the deep veins. Since they are usually unaccompanied by arteries, they are the ones selected as a rule, for venesection. The deep veins are usually enclosed, in the limbs, in the sheath of some large artery which they accompany; but, if the accompanying artery be of secondary calibre, these deep veins are usually placed upon either side of the artery and are termed vence comites.