23 SPHENOID BONE. (4.) The olivary process, just behind the optic groove, and in front of the sella turcica. (5.) The pituitary fossa or sella turcica, so called since it lodges the pituitary body of the brain, and from its re- semblance to a turkish saddle. This fossa is bounded in front by the middle clinoid processes, and the cir- cular sinus of the brain is situated within it. (6.) Dorsum sellee,or the back of the saddle. This portion of the bone is grooved or notched at the sides for the passage of the 6th pair of cranial nerves, and at its superior angles it gives off the two posterior clinoid process for the attachment of the tentorium cerebelli. (7.) The cavernous groove, which is perceived upon each side of the body and which is curved like the letter S. This groove lodges the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus. Anterior Surface. The anterior surface of the body of the sphenoid bone has a direction which is nearly vertical. It presents for examination the following points of anatomical interest and importance : (1.) The sphenoidal crest. This portion of the bone articulates with the perpen- dicular plate of the ethmoid bone. (2.) The openings into the sphenoidal sinuses. These openings extend into the body of the bone, ren- dering it hollow and greatly decreasing the weight of the bone, in proportion to the surface which it presents. (3.) The sphenoidal turbinated boiies, or “ Bones of Bertin.” These bones partially close the openings of the sphen- oidal sinuses and articulate with the os planum of the ethmoid ; upon their sides and at their inferior por- tion, they articulate with the orbital processes of the palate bones. Under Surface. This surface of the bone enters into the formation of the nasal fossae. It presents for examination the following points of in- terest : (1.) The rostrum of the sphenoid. This thin plate of bone is received into a correspond- ing slit-like depression in the vomer between its two alae. It is, in reality, but* a continuation downwards of the sphenoidal crest.