ORGANS OF GENERA TION. 572 GENITAL ORGANS OF THE FEMALE. The external genitals of the female comprise the following parts, which are specially named: 1. The mons veneris. 2. The labia majora. 3. The labia minora or nymphae. 4. The clitoris. 5. The meatus urinarius. 6. The vestibule. 7. The hymen. 8. The aperture of the vagina. The mons veneris is a collection of fat, in front of the pubes. It is covered with hair after puberty, and it forms a rounded eminence, which serves as a protection against injury to the deeper parts, during coition or in case of accidental violence. The labia majora are the two anterior and the thickest lips of the vulva. They form, by their points of junction, the anterior and the posterior commissures of the vulva. They are covered exter- nally by integument and mucous membrane, and they contain, in their interior, areolar and dartoid tissues. The nymphce are two small folds which are attached above, thus forming a preputial covering for the clitoris, and which are lost, below, upon the sides of the labia majora. The clitoris is the analogous organ to the penis in the male sex. It differs from that organ, however, in being smaller in size and imperforate, and in possessing no corpus spongiosum. It has analogous muscles, and possesses a suspensory ligament, two crura, a glans, a body, and a prepuce. The meatus urinarius is situated upon the upper wall of the vagina, at a point about one inch below the clitoris. The vestibule is a triangular space, at the upper and anterior part of the vulva, which is bounded, upon either side, by the nymphae, and, behind, by the meatus urinarius. The hymen is a fold of mucous membrane, which varies greatly in its form and its extent. It may be a complete septum, which en- closes the entire outlet of the vagina, or a perforated septum, with one central orifice or numerous smaller openings, or, finally, a semilupar fold with a free concave border. In some cases, the’ hymen is absent, and, in others, the remnants only of a previous hymen exist, in the form of ^mall irregular eminences, called ca- runculce myrtiformes.