THE FEMALE PERINEUM. The perineum of the female differs from that of the male in its size, and somewhat in its construction. It extends, from a line drawn between the two tuberosities of the ischia, upwards to the symphysis pubis, and is tria?igutar in its form. It is perforated by the opening of the vulva, which cor- responds to the situation of the scrotum of the male, and which embraces the external orifice of the vagina; and it extends upwards between the rectum and the posterior wall of the vagina, as a tri- angular-shaped prolongation, sometimes called thz perineal body. The lower commissure of the vulva is separated from the anal opening by a space of about an inch, although the anus is rela- tively farther back than in the male. At the superior commissure of the vulva, may be perceived the clitoris, which is analogous to the penis of the male, and which possesses the same muscles. The superficial fascia, as in the male, consists of two layers, but both are incomplete on account of the aperture of the vulva. This fascia is continued forwards into the labia majora, as high up as the clitoris; and it thus supports the analogy between the labium and the scrotum. It becomes joined to the deep perineal fascia, after passing beneath the lower border of the transversus perinei muscles. The triangular ligament or the deep perineal fascia of the female is rendered less apparent than in the male by the large aperture of the vagina, but it nevertheless presents two distinct layers which transmit the urethra, as in the male sex. The muscles of the female perineum comprise one not met with in the male, which is situated at the orifice of the vagina, and to which the name sphincter vagince has been applied, from its cir- cular arrangement. It is analogous to the accelerator urinae mus- cle of the male; which is not present in the female, as the clitoris has no corpus spongiosum, and as the urethra is not called upon foi* forcible ejaculation. The arteries and nerves of the perineum of both sexes are identical in their situation and their general distribution. The perineum of the female performs an important function, since it tends to support the posterior wall of the vagina, and, indirectly, the anterior vaginal wall, the bladder, and the uterus. Laceration of the perineum, therefore, is, in the female, a most serious condition, if not promptly relieved by surgical measures.