443 COMMISSURES OF ENCEPHALON. 4 of the hemispheres of the cerebrum posterior to the corpus stria- tum of either side. They assist to form the floor of the lateral ventricles and also the sides of the third ventricle of the brain. The tubercula quadrigemina are four small rounded eminences, separated by a crucial suture. They are considered as forming, together, two single-ganglia. They are situated on the exterior of the brain, at or near the point of union of the cerebrum and cerebellum ; and they can be best exposed by lifting the posterior portion of the cerebrum from the tentorium cerebelli. The term nates and testes is frequently applied to them from, a fancied re- semblance to those parts in miniature. The tuber annulare is a ganglion situated in the substance of the pons Varolii. By some the term is used as synonomous with the pons Varolii ; while, by others it is regarded only as its dis- tinct ganglionic centre. Later on, in a description of the component parts of the brain in detail, many points pertaining to these ganglia will be considered, which are now omitted in this general description, since it is impossible to enter into detail without the frequent use of terms which have not, as yet, been mentioned. COMMISSURES. In addition to the ganglia, which we have been considering, certain connecting bands of brain substance exist, which are called commissures. These may be divided into two sets, viz : the longi- tudinal and the transverse. Each of these sets include portions of the brain, to which special names have been applied. Long itudinal commissures (Which lie with their long axis in the antero-posterior direction). f Olfactory tracts. Striae longitudinales. I Taenia semicircularis. Crura cerebri. | Processes e cerebello ad testes. (iiL Peduncles of the pineal gland. Fornix. Infundibulum. Lamina cinerea. Gyrus fornicatus. (Fasciculus unciformis. Transverse commissures (Which run in the transverse direction). f Anterior of 3rd ventricle. Middle of 3rd ventricle. Posterior of 3rd ventricle. Corpus callosum. (9) •{ Pons Varolii. Valve of Vieussens. Fornix. Posterior medullary velum. Optic commissure. Total, 20