99 THE STERNUM. which the four middle ones are joined together before adult life, while the upper and the lower points remain as distinct and sep- arate portions, till age becomes somewhat advanced. The various portions of the sternum, mentioned above, present the following points of interest. Manubrium (the handle). This is the thickest part of the sternum. It forms the upper portion of the bone and is broadest above, and narrowest where it joins the gladiolus. It articulates with the sternal end of the clavicle and the first costal cartilage and unites, in part, with the second costal cartilage. Gladiolus (the sword). This portion of the sternum is situated in the central portion of the bone. It is long and blade-like in shape (from which it derives its name) and is broadest a little below its centre. It unites with the third, fourth, fifth and sixth costal cartilages, and, in part, with the second and with the seventh. It is sometimes perforated by the sternal foramen. Ensiform or Xiphoid Appendix (tip of the sword). This terminal portion of the breast bone may be either broad, pointed, or forked in its shape. It is occasionally perforated and sometimes it is deflected towards one side. It articulates, in part only, with the seventh costal cartilage. It gives attachment to the following structures: (1) The linea alba. (2) The anterior abdominal aponeurosis. (3) The inner fibres of the rectus abdominis muscle. Anterior Surface. The anterior surface of the sternum varies in its configuration in the three segments forming that bone. In the manubrium, it is convex from side to side and concave from above downwards; in the gladiolus it is flat and traversed by Three horizontal lines which indicate the location of the original four segments, which subsequently united. In the xiphoid appendix, it is occasionally curved. It gives attachment to the following structures : (1) The sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. (2) The pectoralis major muscle. (3) The chondro-sternal ligaments. (4) The chondro-xiphoid ligaments.