ARTHROLOGY OR S YNDESMOLOG Y. 198 synovial membrane continued from the anterior cal- caneo-astragaloid articulation. The articulation between the astragalus and the scaphoid is the only enarthrodial joint of the tarsus. In this joint, the round head of the astragalus is received into a 'concavity formed by the following structures: 1. The posterior surface of the scaphoid. 2. The anterior articulating surface of the os calcis. 3. The upper surface of the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. It possesses only one ligament, the superior astragalo-scaphoid, which is a broad band connecting the neck of the astragalus with the upper surface of the scaphoid. The inferior calcano-scaphoid ligament supplies the place of an inferior ligament to this joint. The synovial membranes of the tarsus are four in number, and are situated as follows : Synovial mem- branes of the - tarsus I One for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. One for the two fol- (Anterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. lowing points :... ( Astragalo-scaphoid articulation. One for the calcaneo-cuboid articulation. Articulation of the scaphoid and the three cuneiform bones. The articulations of the three cuneiform bones. One for the fol-J The articulation of the external cuneiform bone and lowing points : | the cuboid. The articulations of the middle and external cunei- form bones and the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones. Tarso-Metatarsal Articulations. This set of articulations comprises a number of arthrodial joints, which are formed as follows : 1st metatarsal bone and internal cuneiform. 2d metatarsal bone and all three cuneiform bones. 3d metatarsal and external cuneiform. 4th metatarsal and external cuneiform and cuboid. 5th metatarsal bone and cuboid. As is perceived in the second of these articulations, the three cuneiform bones form a deep recess into which the second meta- tarsal bone is received. This fact renders disarticulation of the tarsal bones from the metatarsus extremely difficult. The ligaments, which enter into the formation of these above named joints, may be divided into three sets as follows : I. A dorsal set, which connect each metatarsal bone with the corresponding tarsal bone. The second metatarsal bone has 'three dorsal ligaments, one for each of the cuneiform bones.