55 7 THE KIDNE Y. appearance. It sends prolongations between each of the pyramids of Malpighi, which prolongation are called the columns of Bcrtin. The cortical substance of the kidney is found to consist of the fol- lowing component parts : 1. Uriniferous tubes, of various forms. 2. Malpighian bodies or corpuscles. 3. Blood-vessels. 4. Nerves. 5. Lymphatics. 6. Connective tissue, (inter-tubular stroma). 7. A granular matrix. The varieties of URINIFEROUS TUBES, which are met with in the kidney, are named as follows: 1. The convoluted tubes, so named from their twisted course. These tubes form the greater portion of the cortical substance of the kidney, and are continuous, at one extremity, with the Mal- pighian corpuscles, and, at the other extremity, with the looped tubes of Henle. The looped tubes of Henle are so called from the course which they take, and from their discoverer. They form an anastomosing link between the convoluted tubes and the straight uriniferous tubes, although an additional variety of tube is now believed to exist between these points, to which the name communicating tube has been applied. The tubes of Henle are subdivided into a descending and an ascending portion, since they form a loop extending into the medullary portion of the kidney. The straight uriniferous tubes are also called the “ tubes of Bellini." They have been also named, when found in the corti- cal portion, the tubes of Ferrein. The tubes of Bellini compose the greater portion of the medullary substance of the kidney, and give to that portion of the organ the striated appearance, which is characteristic of it. The tubes of Ferre in are a direct extension of the straight tubes of Bellini upwards into the cortical portion of the kidney. They are generally arranged in the form of small pyramids, to which the name “ pyramids of Ferrein ” is applied. The Malpighian bodies or corpuscles are, in the majority of instances, a dilated extremity of a convoluted uriniferous tube, and average about one one-hundred and twentieth of an inch in diameter. They consist of an investing capsule, called the “ cap- sule of Muller" and a tuft of blood-vessels, called the “ Malpig hian tuft."