126 BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The posterior border extends from the rhomboid impression to the conoid tubercle, and forms the posterior boundary of the sub- clavian groove. The superior border is continuous with the posterior border of the flattened portion of the bone and affords attachment to the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. The anterior surface is convex and is continuous with the upper surface of the flattened portion of the bone. It is covered externally by the platysma muscle, and affords attachment, at its inner portion, to the sterno-cleido-mastoid and pectoralis major muscles. The posterior surface is concave and, at its external portion, is narrowed as it becomes continuous with the posterior border of the flattened portion of the bone. It frequently gives origin, at its inner portion, to some of the fibres of the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle, and, near its centre, it presents the orifice of the nutrient canal of the bone, which is directed outwards. The inferior surface is narrow at its inner portion, but, exter- nally, it is broader and becomes continuous with the under surface of the flattened portion of the bone. It presents, from within out- wards, the following points: I. An articular facet, which articulates with the cartilage of the first rib. II. The rhomboid impression, for the rhomboid or coraco- clavicular ligament. III. The subclavian groove, for the subclavius muscle. Outer or Flattened Portion. This portion of the clavicle presents for examination an ante- rior and a posterior border and a superior and an inferior surface. The anterior border is thin, concave, and affords attachment to the deltoid muscle. The posterior border is thick, convex, and affords attachment for the trapezius muscle. The superior surface is roughened for the deltoid and trape- zius muscles. The inferior surface presents, at its inner portion, a promin- ence of bone, called the conoid tubercle, for the insertion of the conoid ligament, and an oblique line for the insertion of the trapezoid ligament. Inner or Sternal End. This end of the clavicle is larger than the shaft of the bone and is triangular in form. Its articular facet is continuous with