THE KNEE-JOINT. 1-93 6. Occasionally, it is found to be continued into the superior tibio-fibular articulation. The vessels of the knee-joint are derived from the five articular branches of the popliteal artery, from the anastomotica magna, and from the recurrent branch of the tibial artery. The nerves are derived from the anterior crural, the obtura- tor, the internal popliteal, and the external popliteal nerves. Points of Surgical Interest Pertaining to the Knee. The tubercle upon the outer side of the head of the tibia has a surgical value, since it indicates the level to which the condyles of the femur descend and the lowest limit of the synovial membrane of the kn^e-joint. In operations in the vicinity of the lower end of the femur, the knee should be flexed, in order to draw downwards the cul-de-sac of the synovial membrane of the joint which lies beneath the tendon of the quadriceps extensor muscle. Deviations of the ligamentum patellae from the perpendicular line indicate some displacement of that bone. The patella lies almost entirely above the condyles of the femur, when the knee-joint is extended, and, during flexion of that joint, it lies in the inter-condyloid fossa and more upon the external condyle than upon the inner. In the act of kneeling the patella protects the knee-joint. A large deposit of fat beneath the ligamentum patellae is pro- vided as a means of packing all vacancies which exist between the bones, during the various movements of the joint. This de- posit of fat, when the knee is extended, protrudes upon either side of the patella and often gives an apparent sense of fluctuation, which might lead to a suspicion of fluid within the joint. In the region of the ligamentum patellae, there exist three bur see ; one deep bursa, under the ligament and separating it from the tibia; and two between it and the integument, the upper of which when enlarged creates a swelling called the house-maid’s knee. The bony projection on the inner side of the lower extremity of the femur, for the attachment of the fibres of the adductor magnus muscle, corresponds to the level of the upper part of the trochlea ; a point useful in excision of the knee-joint. The movement of outward rotation at the knee-joint is checked by the lateral and the crucial ligaments, and is affected by the degree of flexion of the joint which, at the same time, exists.