FASCIA OF THE PERINEUM. 599 the infiltration, in a forward or upward direction, and is therefore of great surgical importance. The DEEP PERINEAL FASCIA, or the triangular ligament of the perineum, serves to support the urethra and the prostate gland, and to close the anterior part of the outlet of the pelvis. It is composed of two layers, called the anterior and the posterior layers, each of which take a different course, and, between which, is contained the space called the cavity of the triangular liga- ment. The anterior layer is thicker than the posterior, and extends downwards and forwards upon the membranous portion of the urethra, and becomes blended with the bulb of the urethra, be- fore it passes to its insertion into the central tendinous point of the perineum. It is attached, above, to the pubic arch and the sub-pubic ligament, and, upon either side, to the rami of the pubes and the ischia. The posterior layer of the triangular ligament has the same points of origin and insertion as the anterior layer, which has just been described. It passes upwards and backwards, and, after passing in front of the apex of the prostate gland, it descends to become inserted into the central tendinous point of the peri- neum, at which point it becomes continuous with the pelvic fas- cia. It bears an intimate relation, after leaving the apex of the prostate gland, to the posterior wall of the membranous portion of the urethral canal. The urethra passes through the triangular ligament, at a point situated about one inch below the symphysis pubis. An obstruc- tion to the introduction of a catheter is often encountered at this point, since the point of the instrument is liable to impinge against this fascia. The cavity of the triangular ligament is the space contained between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia. It contains the following structures. The membranous portion of the urethra. The compressor urethrae muscle. The pudic vessels. The pudic nerve. The artery of the bulb. The nerve of the bulb. The glands of Cowper, and their ducts. Fat, and connective tissue. The PELVIC FASCIA is continuous, above, with the fascia over