590 ORGAN OF HEARING. The ARTERIES of the tympanum are derived from the follow- ing sources: Forming an arterial circle around the \ Tympanic branch of internal maxillary. membrana tympani. \ Stylo-mastoid branch of posterior auricular. Distributed to other portions of the tym- panum. Petrosal branch of middle meningeal. Tympanic branch of internal carotid. Branches of ascending pharyngeal. The VEINS empty into the middle meningeal and the pharyngeal veins. The NERVES are derived from the following sources: Branch of otic ganglion -{To tensor tympani muscle. Tympanic of facial nerve •{To stapedius and laxator tympani muscles. Tympanic of glosso-pharyn- f -p0 ^ mucous membrane. ( Carotid plexus, geal (Jacobson s nerve). I 3 Great pe^osal nerve- ^facial nerve*3”1 ^l3nC ° ^Communicating branches to ( Otic ganglion. Thz. cavity of the tympanum is lined with a mucous membrane, and, through the Eustachian tube, communicates with the cavity of the pharynx. It is through this latter communication, that air is permitted to enter the cavity of the tympanum, and thus the membrana tympani is allowed to vibrate between two bodies of air whose density is equal, and thus to truly perceive the quality and tone of the notes which it is called upon to record. The abnormal sounds, perceived when the Eustachian tube is obstructed by swelling of the mucous lining during attacks of severe influenza, are due, in great measure, to the impaired en- trance and exit of air. It is customary for gunners, when fir- ing large cannon, to stand with the mouth open, since, by so doing, the vibrations of the air produced by the explosion are transmitted through the Eustachian tube as well as through the auditory canal, and, by neutralizmg each other, the drum mem- brane stands almost motionless, and little if any sound is per- ceived. THE INTERNAL EAR OR LABYRINTH. The internal ear consists of a series of cavities channelled out of the temporal bone, called the osseous labyrinth. It is lined, throughout its whole extent, by a thin fibro-serous membrane, whose function is to secrete a fluid called the liquor Cotunnii or the perilymph, in which fluid floats a membranous sac, which resembles in its shape the outline of the osseous labyrinth, and