THE TRACHEA 545 THE TRACHEA. The trachea is a cartilagino-membranous tube, which extends from the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, at a point corresponding to the 5th cervical vertebra, to the 3d dorsal vertebra, where it bifurcates into the right and left bronchus. It is rounded in its form, and is composed of cartilaginous rings connected together by a fibrous membrane. It is lined upon its interior surface with a mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the larynx. The cartilages are usually twenty in number, and each forms two-thirds of a circle. They are supplied at their incomplete portion, which lies posteriorly, with muscular fibres, to which the name trachealis muscle is applied. The first and last of these cartilages present special character- istics. The lower edge of the last cartilage is prolonged downwards at its centre, and presents the openings of two imperfect rings which form the commencement of the bronchial tubes of either side; while the first cartilage is thicker and broader than the rest. The fibrous membrane, which connects the cartilages of the trachea with each other, embraces both surfaces of each carti- lage by dividing into two layers, which unite with each other at its upper and lower border. The muscular fibres of the trachea are situated chiefly at its posterior portion, between the incomplete portion of the cartilagi- nous rings, and consist of a longitudinal and transverse set. The mucous membrane is pink in color, and is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium. The glands are of the conglomerate variety, and are found scat- tered beneath the mucous membrane, and also between the layers of the fibrous membrane which connects the cartilaginous rings. The arteries of the trachea are derived from the inferior thy- roid and the bronchial arteries, and the veins terminate in the thyroid plexuses and in the bronchial vein. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric, the recurrent laryngeal, and the sympathetic. The length of the trachea is four and one-half inches. It corresponds to the length of the pharynx, and is one-half of the