VEINS OF THE TRUNK. 425 neck and it is rendered prominent by putting the sterno-mastoid muscle into action, or by anything creating pressure upon the lower end of the vein, which corresponds with the middle of the clavicle. The INTERNAL JUGULAR vein is a continuation of the lateral sinus of the skull. It extends from the jugular foramen, down- wards, to the subclavian vein, where it has one pair of valves. This vein is in relation with the internal carotid artery and the common carotid artery, being contained in the sheath of the lat- ter vessel, and also with the 9th, 10th, nth and 12th pairs of cranial nerves (according to the classification of Soemmering). The RIGHT INNOMINATE vein is an inch and a half in length, is smaller than that of the left side, and is nearly vertical in direc- tion. It is separated from the right lung by the pleura and the right phrenic nerve. It joins the left innominate vein, below the cartilage of the first rib, to form the superior vena cava. The LEFT INNOMINATE vein is three inches in length, and de- cends obliquely from the left sterno-clavicular articulation to its point of junction with the right innominate vein. The SUPERIOR VENA CAVA is a thick trunk, about three inches in length, which enters the pericardial sac, about an inch and a half above the heart, and terminates at the upper and front part of the right auricle. It has no valves. The INFERIOR VENA CAVA is formed by the junction of the two common iliac veins, at the right side of and between the 4th and $th lumbar vertebrce. It lies on the right side of the abdom- inal aorta and passes behind the border of the mesentery, the transverse portion of the duodenum, the pancreas, and the portal vein. It is also lodged in a groove in the posterior border of the liver, where the hepatic veins join it. It perforates the central tendon of the diaphragm and thus enters the pericardial sac ; and subsequently terminates at the lower and back part of the right auricle of the heart. Its length is about eight inches. THE AZYGOS VEINS. These veins serve as a connecting link between the superior and inferior vence cava. They also collect the blood from the intercostal spaces. They are three in number, and are called as follows. Vena azygos major, or right azygos. Vena azygos minor, or left lower azygos. Left superior azygos.