25 SPHENOID BONE. The anterior or orbital surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid bone is quadrilateral in shape. It assists in forming the outer wall of the orbit, and it also enters into the formation of the sphenoidal, and the spheno maxillary fissures. It articulates with the frontal and the malar bones. It presents a small bony prominence, called its spine, to which is attached the lower head of the external rectus muscle. The circumference of the greater wing of the sphenoid bone serves the combined functions of articulation with other bones and the completion of foramina and fissures. From the back portion of the body of the sphenoid, as you progress towards the spine of its greater wing, the circumference of the wing assists in forming the anterior margin of the foramen lacerum medium, and it also articulates with the petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the spine of the greater wing to its tip, the circumference of the wing articulates with the squamous portion of the temporal bone. This articulating surface is bevelled upon its inner aspect, in the inferior portion of its length, and upon its outer or exterior aspect, in its upper or superior portion. From the tip of the greater wing to the front portion of the body, there exists a triangular surface for the articulation of that portion of the sphenoid with the frontal bone. The balance of this portion of the circumference of the wing forms the lower boundary of the sphenoidal fissure. Lesser Wings of Sphenoid. (Processes of Ingrassias.) These processes are long, thin, and of a triangular shape. They present for examination two surfaces, two borders, a base, and an apex. The upper surface is smooth, and forms a part of the anterior fossa, at the base of the skull. The under surface forms the back portion of the roof of the orbit and the upper boundary of the sphenoidal fissure, which transmits the 3rd, 4th, the opthalmic branch of the 5th, and the 6th nerve, the opthalmic vein, a branch of the lachrymal artery, and a process of dura mater. The anterior border articulates with the frontal bone. The posterior borders form, at their inner extremities, the anterior clinoid processes. The base is connected to the body by two roots which by