* 240 MYOLOGY. muscle, thus enclosing it in a kind of sheath, and, reuniting on the inner border of this muscle, the tendon becomes continuous with its fellow of the opposite side, and assists in forming the linea alba. The anterior layer of this aponeurosis becomes blended, in its passage over the rectus muscle, with the tendon of the external oblique muscle ; and the posterior layer, during its passage behind the rectus muscle, also becomes continuous with the tendinous aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis muscle. In the lower fourth of the rectus muscle, however, the aponeu- rosis of the internal oblique does not separate into lamellae, but passes, with the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis, en- tirely in front of that muscle. Of these muscles the following prominent points also deserve special mention, as the parts have important surgical relations to hernial protrusions. A. Poupart’s Ligament. This ligament is formed by the lower fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and ex- tends from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubis. B. Gimbernat’s Ligament. This ligament is a reflection of fibres derived from Poupart's ligament, backwards and inwards, to the pec- tineal line. C. The Pillars of the External Ring. The external and the internal pillars of the external abdominal ring are formed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. They enclose an opening, called the external abdominal ring, one-half to three- quarters of an inch in length, for the transmission of the spermatic cord, in the male, and the round liga- ment, in the female. D. Triangular Ligament. This ligament is formed by fibres, reflected from Gimbernat's ligament, which extend behind the inter- nal pillar of the external abdominal ring, to the linea alba. E. The Intercolumnar Fascia. This is a prolongation of the spermatic fascia, which extends between the two pillars of the external abdominal ring, and which renders the opening of the external abdominal ring almost square in shape.