THE PALA TE BONES. 55 off a projection called the maxillary process, which helps to close the orifice of the antrum. The posterior border of the palate bone articulates with the inner plate of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. The upper border of the same plate presents an anterior process, called the orbital process, and a posterior projection, termed the sphenoidal process. These two processes are separated by a deep notch which forms, by its articulation with the sphenoid bone, the greater part of the spheno-palatine foramen, which transmits the spheno-palatine nerves. C. The Pterygoid Process. This process of the palate bone fits into the notch between the two plates of the pterygoid process of the ethmoid bone, and it presents for examination a posterior surface, two lateral sur- faces, and an inferior surface. The posterior surface enters into the formation of the ptery- goid fossa. The two lateral surfaces are roughened for articulation, with the pterygoid plates of the ethmoid bone, and with the superior maxillary bone. The under surface of this process forms a portion of the roof of the mouth, and presents for examination the external and posterior small palatine foramina, which transmit the external and posterior palatine nerves. D. The Orbital Process. This process projects upwards and outwards from the anterior portion of the upper border of the vertical plate of the palate bone. It presents three articular surfaces, and two non-articular surfaces. The three articular surfaces are named, respectively,the an- terior, posterior, and internal. They articulate, in this order, with the superior maxillary bone, the sphenoid bone, and the ethmoid bone. The non-articular surfaces are called the superior or orbital, and the external or zygomatic. The former forms a portion of the floor of the orbit, and the latter forms a portion of the anterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. These two non-articular surfaces are separated from each other by a rounded border, which forms a portion of the spheno-max- illary fissure.