353 OCCIPITAL ARTERY. The facial artery, through its numerous branches, anastomoses with the following vessels. 1. The opposite facial, through the branches which reach the median line. 2. The internal maxillary, through four of its branches, viz., the infra-orbital, the nasal, the inferior dental, the posterior palatine. 3. The lingual, through its sublingual branch. 4. The internal carotid, through its ophthalmic branch. 5. The temporal, through its transverse facial branch. 6. The ascending pharyngeal, in the pharynx and the soft palate. By means of the fourth of the anastomoses above mentioned, the internal and the external carotid arteries have a free point of collateral circulation ; while the second group of anastomoses serves also to establish a free communication between the superficial and the deep branches of the external carotid artery. The facial artery is liable to be the source of serious hemorrh- age in wounds of the lip or in operations about the mouth or lips. The angular artery (the terminal branch of the facial) has a point of practical surgical interest connected with it, from its re- lation to the lachrymal sac; since it passes through it along the inner border of the orbit, and, in case of operation for lachrymal fistula, the sac should therefore be opened upon its external por- tion in order to avoid a wound to this vessel. OCCIPITAL ARTERY. The occipital artery arises from the posterior part of the ex- ternal carotid, nearly opposite to the point of origin of the facial artery. Its point of origin corresponds therefore nearly to the lower border of the digastric muscle. This artery is partially covered, at its point of origin, by the parotid gland, and the hypo-glossal nerve winds around it. The course of this vessel is long and winding, passing at first perpendicularly in front of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae ; making a sharp turn opposite the atlas; passing in a horizontal direction along the base of the skull to the occiput ; and then ramifying beneath the integument. It is in point of size, usually the sixth of the eight branches of the external carotid artery. It crosses, in its course, the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the spinal accessory and pneumogastric nerves.