86 SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. THE ATLAS. This bone presents for examination |^A spinal foramen. It lies between the occipital bone and the axis. It corre- sponds to the first cervical vertebra but has received a special name from its function (supporting the globe of the head). The following points of anatomical interest pertaining to this bone are deserving of notice ; „ , (Anterior. 2arches ) Posterior. 2 lateral masses. The Anterior Arch presents The posterior arch presents f (i) Convex in shape. r/x \ ) (2) A Uibercle in its centre, for v ' I the attachments of ligaments [ and the longus colli muscle, f (1) Concave in shape. , N . . . r I (2) An oval facet in its centre, (2.) A posterior surface -j v for ,he a'iculalion of the’ ( odontoid process of the axis. (3.) An upper and lower border. To which are at- tached the deep occipito-atloid and the deep anterior atlo-axoid ligaments. ✓ x ~ r 1 Superior intervertebral artery, (1.) Grooves for the... <T } ■ ■ . . u , . 7 1 * l Inferior intervertebral artery. (2.) A tubercle for the rectus capitis posticus minor. (1.) Four tubercles.. | 2 Inferior-1 j ^or t^e transverse ligament. The LATERAL MASS- ^ es present (2.) 2 transverse processes, which are large, and are perforated by a large foramen (vertebral.) (3.) 2 Sup. Articu- j Large, oval, concave. lar surfaces ( Looking upwards, inwards and backwards. (4.) 2 Inf. Artie, f Smaller, flat and circular. surfaces... ■< Looking downwards and inwards. The spinal foramen is large and is divided, by the transverse ligament, into an anterior and posterior space. The anterior space lodges the odontoid process of the axis, and the posterior space lodges the upper portion of the spinal cord and its membranes. In the atlas, the a?iterior arch forms about one-fifth only, while the posterior arch comprises about two-fifths of the circumference of the entire bone. The grooves upon the posterior arch, for the passage of the in- ter-vertebral arteries, lie upon its anterior and under surfaces, and are occasionally complete foramina. The superior articular surfaces, by their shape and direction, allow of the nodding motion of the head, while the inferior articu- lar surfaces allow of a movement of rotation only.