483 NERVES OF UPPER EXTREMITY. The ULNAR NERVE is the most important branch of the inner cord of the brachial plexus. It bears an important relation to ths elbow-joint at the inner condyle of the humerus, where it passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. It is frequently jarred by blows, in that vicinity, giving the sensa- tion, called ‘‘injury to the funny bone.” In the incision of the elbow-joint, this nerve has particularly to be avoided. It sup- plies the elbow and wrist joints, and the integument of the internal one and a half fingers, on both the palmar and the dorsal surface of the hand. The muscles supplied by this nerve are shown on page 480 of this volume, and in a previous table under myology. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE pierces the coraco-brachia- lis muscle and is often called, for that reason, the “perforans Casserii.” The CIRCUMFLEX NERVE is an important branch of the pos- terior cord-of the brachial plexus and supplies the shoulder-joint, the deltoid and teres minor muscles, and the integument of the shoulder. It accompanies the posterior circumflex vessels. The MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, and is the largest branch of that plexus. At the external condyle of the humerus, which it reaches by passing around that bone in the spiral groove, it divides into two nerves called the radial and the posterior interosseous nerves. Before its division, it supplies two muscles of the arm and three of the forearm, and the integument of portions of both the arm and forearm. The RADIAL NERVE, a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, lies on the outer side of the radial artery and in close relation to it in the middle portion of the forearm. It supplies the outer side and the ball of the thumb, and the integument of the outer three and a half of fingers, upon the back of the hand. The POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE, a branch of the mus- culo-spiral, supplies all the muscles on the back of the forearm, ex- cepting the three which are supplied by the musculo-spiral before this nerve was given off. It also sends a filament to the wrist- joint. 1