SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. 112 The interior surface forms the lower part of the lateral boundary of the true pelvis and the posterior portion of the circumference of the obturator foramen. It gives attachment to the obturator internus muscle and presents for examination two or three large foramina for vessels, and a groove for the passage of the pudic vessels and the pudic nerve. The posterior surface is quadrilateral in shape, is smooth upon its surface and is broader above than below. It gives attachment to four muscles, viz., the pyriformis, obturator internus and the two gemelli. The anterior border of the ischium is very thin and affords at- tachment for the obturator membrane. The outer border is thick and short. The inner border is long, and exhibits the following points of interest: (1) The lower portion of the great sacro-sciatic notch. (2) The spine of the ischium. (3) The lesser sacro-sciatic notch. The greater and lesser sacro-sciatic notches are converted into complete foramina by the sacro-sciatic ligaments and give passage to important structures, as follows: The great sacro-sciatic notch transmits (1) The Gluteal vessels. (2) The Superior gluteal nerve. (3) The Pyriformis muscle. (4) The Pudic vessels and nerve. (5) The Sciatic vessels and nerves. (6) The nerve to the Obturator internus mus- cle. S(i) The Obturator internus muscle. (2) The Pudic vessels (re-entering). (3) The Pudic nerve (re-entering). The spine of the ischium affords attachment to, (1) the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, (2) to the following three muscles, viz., the gemellus superior, coccygeus and the posterior fibres of the levator ani. Tuberosity of the Ischium. This prominent portion of bone is situated upon the lower and back part of the body of the ischium. It presents for consid- eration, (1) an outer lip, (2) an inner lip, and (3) four roughened spaces between the two lips. The outer lip affords attachment to three muscles, viz., the gem- ellus inferior, the quadratus femoris and the adductor magnus. The inner lip affords attachment to two muscles, viz., the transversus perinei and the erector penis or clitoridis, and also to