APPENDAGES TO THE EYE. 583 is a fold of mucous membrane, which often encloses a piece of cartilage. The upper eyelid is the largest of the two lids, and is the most movable, since it connected to the levator palpebrae muscle. When the eye is shut, the eyeball is moved upwards and in- wards so that the cornea is covered by the upper lid. This is explained as a measure on the part of Nature to protect the cor- nea from dirt and also to prevent the entrance of light into the eye in case of separation of the eyelids. The lower lid, when in the act of closing, is not only raised, but is also drawn inwards for a distance of about one-twelfth of an inch, by which movement all particles of dust remaining, as well as any excessive moisture, is swept towards the inner canthus. The eyelids are composed of the following parts, which are specially named: Integument. Subcutaneous areolar tissue. Fibres of the orbicularis muscle. The tarsal cartilages. Tarsal ligaments. The tendo oculi. The tensor tarsi muscle. The levator palpebrae muscle (in upper lid). Palpebral conjunctiva. Meibomian glands. Eyelashes. The conjunctiva is usually divided into two portions, called the palpebral and the ocular portions. The palpebral portion is the thickest, the most opaque, and the most vascular. The ocular portion is often divided into the corneal and the sclerotic portions, since they differ somewhat in their construction. The LACHRYMAL APPARATUS comprises the lachrymal gland, the lachrymal canals, the lachrymal sac, and the nasal duct. The lachrymal gland is situated in a depression in the roof of the orbit, and is about the size of an almond. It gives off six or eight ducts, which empty into the upper fold of the conjunctiva. The lachrymal canals commence at minute orifices, upon the margin of the lids, called the puncta lachrymalia, and pass in a curved direction, at either border of the lacus lachrymalis, till they terminate in the lachrymal sac, which receives the tears as they escape. The lachrymal sac is the upper and the dilated portion of the