114 SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. The posterior surface is smooth and concave from side to side. It gives attachment to two muscles, viz. : the obturator internus, and the levator ani, and it also affords insertion for the pubo- prostatic ligaments, and for the anterior true ligaments of the bladder. The upper border of the body of the pubes presents four points of especial interest and value. These are the angle, the crest, and the spine of the pubes, and the commencement of the ilio- pectineal line. The angle of the pubes corresponds to the points of decussa- tion of the internal pillars of the external abdominal rings. The crest of the pubes affords attachment, posteriorly, to the conjoined tendon of the external oblique and transversalis mus- cles, and, anteriorly, to the rectus abdominis and pyramidalis muscles. The spine of the pubes affords attachment to Poupart’s liga- ment and the external pillar of the abdominal ring. The line a ilio-pectinea affords attachment for the conjoined tendon, Gimbernat’s ligament and triangular ligament. The inner border of the body of the pubes presents a rough oval facet, which forms a part of the symphysis pubis. The outer border of the body of the pubes is thin and affords attachment to the obturator membrane. Horizontal Ramus. The portion of the pubes designated by this name helps to form the brim of the true pelvis. It presents for examination three surfaces and one extremity. The upper surface gives attachment to the pectineus muscle, and presents a continuation of the pectineal line and an eminence called the pectineal eminence, to which the psoas parvus is attached. The under surface presents a groove for the obturator vessels and nerve and a sharp margin, which forms a portion of the cir- cumference of the obturator foramen. The posterior surface forms a part of the anterior boundary of the true pelvis. It affords attachment to some of the fibres of the obturator internus muscle. The outer extremity of the horizontal ramus of the pubes forms the pubic portion of the acetabulum, or about one-fifth of the whole cavity. Descending Ramus. This portion of the pubic bone is thin and flattened. It is