ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 524 1. Valvulce conniventes, which are crescentic reduplications of the mucous and submucous coats, extending into the intestine for about two-thirds of its circumference. They begin about two inches below the pyloric orifice of the stomach and are largest and most numerous im- mediately below the opening of the pancreatic duct and in the middle of the jejunum, while they nearly disappear in the lower part of the ileum. 2. Villi, which are minute projections on the mucous membrane, about one thirty-fifth of an inch in height, and which are conical, cylindrical, or club-shaped. They are most numerous in the upper part of the small intestine. 3. Glands or Crypts of Lieberkiihn, which are minute tubular depressions, found all over the small intestine and even in the large intestine and stomach. They are lined with columnar epithelium. 4. Solitary glands, which are most abundant in the lower part of the small intestine, and which are usually situated upon the free margins of that tube, at a point most distant from its border of attachment. These glands are also arranged in groups along the course of the intestine, which are called Peyers patches. The total number of these patches varies from twenty to thirty. 5. Brunner s glands, which are small conglomerate glands, and which exist chiefly in the duodenum and the com- mencement of the jejunum. The LARGE INTESTINE differs, in its construction, from the SMALL INTESTINE in the following respects. 1. It is only about one-quarter of the length of the small in- testine. 2. It is sacculated, while the small intestine is not. 3- It is much larger in its diameter. 4. It is much less movable, being attached, for the greater portion of its length, closely to the parietes of the abdomen, and the parts to which it bears relation. 5. The valvulce conniventes are indistinct, and, in some places, absent. 6. The villi are either absent or are few in number. 7. The glands of Brunner are absent. 8. The solitary.glands and Peyers patches are absent, except- ing at its upper portion. 9. The tubular glands of Lieberkiihn are larger and more nu- merous than in the small intestine.