THE SPIKAL CORD. 463 of which arises by two roots, called the anterior and posterior roots, which subsequently unite to form a single nerve. The posterior root of each spinal nerve, being sensory in its function, has developed upon it, like all sensory nerves, a gang- lion. The anterior root has no ganglion, since it is a motor nerve. The grey matter of the spinal cord, which is best seen upon a transverse section of the cord, consists of two crescentic masses, each of which are situated in one of the lateral halves of the spinal cord, and which are joined together by a transverse commis- sure. These two crescentic masses form, by their extremities, the anterior and posterior horns of grey matter, within either half of the cord. In each of the posterior horns, a collection of cells at the extremity of the horn is termed the substantia gelatinosa ; while a group of cells at the inner side of the posterior horn, is called the posterior vescicular column. The anterior roots of the spinal nerves arise from the region of the anterior horn, while the posterior roots of the spinal nerves arise from the region of the posterior horn of grey matter. The thirty-one pairs of nerves, which are given off from the spinal cord, form, by their anterior branches, plexuses of nerves, in various parts of the body. The four most important plexuses, so formed, are called the cervical, the brachial, the lumbar, and the sacral plexuses. The nerve fibres of the posterior columns of the spinal cord decussate throughout the entire length of the cord, while those of the anterior columns decussate only in the medulla oblongata. The spinal cord is perforated, throughout its centre, by a canal, which opens, at its upper part, into the 4th ventricle of the brain, and which is lined, throughout, with columnar ciliated epi- thelium. The commissure of the spinal cord, which connects the two lateral halves and which limits the depth of the two median fis- sures of the cord, consists of two parts called the white and the grey commissures. The white commissure lies anteriorly; and the grey commissure connects the cresentic masses of grey matter in the lateral halves of the cord. The white nerve substance of the spinal cord entirely surrounds the grey matter except at the posterior grey commissure of the cord. The fibres of the columns of the spinal cord pass upwards and downwards for variable distances and connect the cells of the different segments of the cord together; although some fibres are supposed to pass uninterruptedly upwards to the ganglia at