ORGAN OF CIRCULATION. 512 Vessels and Nerves of the Heart. The heart substance derives its nutrition from blood conveyed to it by the coronary arteries, during the diastole of the heart ; the propelling power of the coronary circulation being the force of gravity and the elastic recoil of the aorta, although it is as- sisted by the relaxed condition of the walls of the heart. The veins of the heart comprise I. the great cardiac vein, 2. the S7naller or anterior cardiac veins, and 3. the vence cordis mini- nice {yence Thebesii). These veins accompany the arteries and return their blood into the cavity of the right auricle. The lyinphatic vessels of the heart terminate in the right lym- phatic ducts and in the thoracic duct. The nerves distributed to the heart assist in forming the superficial and the deep cardiac plexuses, and also the posterior and the anterior coronary plexuses. These plexuses are formed by sympathetic nerve fibres, derived from various sources, and by filaments from certain cranial nerves. A description of these plexuses and their distribution will be given in the pages descrip- tive to the sympathetic system. Rings of the Heart. The heart has four fibrous rings within its substance, which are situated at the two arterial and the two auriculo-ventricular openings. These rings serve as points of attachment for the mus- cular fibres, for the valves of the heart, and for the coats of the blood- vessels. THE PERICARDIUM. The pericardium is a fibro-serous sac, which contains the heart and the commencement of the large vessels. It is conical in shape and is attached, at its base, to the central tendon of the diaphragm, and, at its apex, to the great vessels, upon which it is prolonged for a space of two inches. It is continuous above, with the deep layer of the cervical fascia; it is in relation, posteriorly, with the roots of the lungs, the oesophagus, and the descending aorta; it is invested, laterally, by the pleura,and is in close relation with the phrenic nerve; and in front, the thymus gland, the lungs, the pleurae, the sternum and the left costal cartilages are in close proximity to it.