NEUROLOGY. 458 THE MEDULLA. OBLONGATA. This ganglion of the brain is the upper and enlarged part of the spinal cord and extends from the lower border of the pons Varolii to the point of decussation of the anterior pyramids of the spinal cord, which point corresponds nearly to the upper border of the atlas. Its anterior surface rests upon the basilar groove of the occipital bone, while its posterior surface forms a portion of the fourth ventricle and is continuous with the posterior surface of the spinal cord. The medulla oblongata is divided into two lateral halves by an anterior and a posterior median fissure, the former of which is interrupted, in part, by the decussations of the anterior pyramids. Each half of the medulla oblongata presents the following points to which a special name has been applied : 1. The anterior pyramid, which is formed by the anterior and the lateral columns of the spinal cord. 2. The olivary body, which is a prominent oval mass behind the pyramid, from which it is separated by a groove, called the groove of the hypoglossal nerve. 3. The lateral tract, which lies behind the anterior pyramid and the olivary body and in front of the restiform body of the medulla. It is continuous with the lateral col- umn of the cord. The groove between it and the restiform body gives origin to the 9th, 10th, and nth nerves. 4. The restiform body or the fasciculus cuneatus is the outer and larger portion of the posterior portion of the medulla. 5. The posterior pyramid or fasciculus gracilis is the inner por- tion of the posterior part of the medulla and is chiefly formed by the fibres of the posterior columns of the spinal cord. It enters into the formation of the 4th ventricle of the brain. The grey matter of the medulla oblongata is scattered through- out its entire substance and has special interest, since, in the 4th ventricle, it affords separate nuclei, from which the 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, nth, and 12th nerves are said to arise either in part or entirely. In the medulla, are supposed to exist the nerve centres for the performance of the acts of respiration, deglutition, phonation, mas- tication, and expression ; and centres for the vaso-motor nerves of the sympathetic system and for the cardiac nerves. It will