54 BONES OF THE FACE. Its superior or nasal surface is smooth and concave in form, and forms the posterior portion of the floor of the nose. Its inferior or buccal surface is roughened and helps to form the roof of the mouth. It presents the following points of interest. (i.) A transverse ridge, for the attachment of the aponeurosis of the tensor palati muscle. (2.) A deep groove, which assists in forming the posterior palatine canal. (3.) The external and posterior small palatine foramina, which transmit the external and the posterior palatine nerves. Its anterior border is serrated for articulation with the palate process of the superior maxillary bone. Its posterior border is free and affords attachment for the soft palate. Its inner border is thick and is surmounted by a ridge of bone, which, by articulation with its fellow, forms a groove with which the vomer articulates. The posterior extremity of this border, when united to its fellow of the opposite side, forms the posterior nasal spine to which the azygos uvulae muscle is attached. (B.) The Vertical Plate. This portion of the bone has two surfaces and three borders which demand description. The inner surface exhibits, like the palate process and inner surface of the body of the superior maxillary bone, a superior and middle turbinated crest, and two grooves for the superior and middle meatuses of the nose. The outer surface presents for examination the following points of special anatomical importance. (1.) A smooth surface, which forms the inner wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. (2.) A vertical groove, which assists in forming the posterior palatine canal. (3.) A roughened surface, with which the superior maxillary bone articulates. (4.) A smooth surface, situated in front of the vertical groove, which forms part of the inner wall of the antrum. (5.) A roughened surface, with which the pterygoid process of the sphenoid articulates. This surface is situated be- low the one for articulation with the superior maxillary bone. The anterior border is thin and irregular in shape. It sends