5i« ORGANS OF DIGESTION. divided, in this situation, to relieve pain in cancer of the tongue. 8. A space behind the last molar tooth, of sufficient size to allow of introduction of a tube for the purpose of feeding a patient,suffering from spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the lower jaw. THE PHARYNX. The pharynx is a musculo-membranous sac, four inches and a half in length, which extends from the base of the skull to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, where it be- comes continuous with the oesophagus. It is bounded, above, by the petrous portion of the temporal bone and by the basilar process of the occipital bone; behind, it is in relation with the recti capitis antici muscles, the longi colli muscles, and the first five cervical vertebrae ; below, it is continu- ous with the oesophagus ; in front, it is incomplete, and is at- tached, from above downwards, to the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, the lower jaw, the base of the tongue, the cornua of the hyoid bone, the stylo-hyoid ligament, the thyroid cartilage, and the cricoid cartilage; laterally, it is in relation with the styloid process of the temporal bone, the sty- loid and pterygoid muscles, the internal carotid artery, the inter- nal jugular vein, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal and sympathetic nerves ; and, in its lower portion, with the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland, the common carotid and lingual arteries, the sterno hyoid muscle, and the lin- gual nerve. Openings. The pharynx has seven openings, as follows : the two posterior nares, the openings of the two Eustachian tubes, the opening into the mouth, the superior aperture of the larynx, and the opening into the oesophagus. Coats. The pharynx has three coats, which, from without inwards, are called the muscular, the fibrous, and the mucous coats. The mid- dle coat is often called the pharyngeal aponeurosis. Muscles. The pharynx has five muscles, viz., the superior constrictor, the middle constrictor, the inferior constrictor, the stylo-pharyngeus and the palato-pharyngeus. The origin and insertion of these