ORGAN OF SIGHT. 580 The arteries of the iris are derived from the long ciliary arte- ries, and from those of the ciliary processes. The nerves of the iris are derived from the ciliary nerves, which are intimately associated with the 3d pair of cranial nerves, at the ciliary ganglion of the orbit. It is through this nerve, that the reflex act of contraction of the pupil is performed, when the optic nerve is oppressed by an excessive amount of light within the chamber of the eye. The RETINA is the nervous layer of the eye, by which the spe- cial sense of vision is afforded. During life, the retina is translu- cent and of a pinkish color, but, after death, it becomes opaque and whitish in appearance. The retina lines the posterior four-fifths of the eye, and is carried forwards to the base of the iris. Its external surface lies upon the choroid coat, which affords for it a dark background, while its internal surface lies in contact with the hyaloid mem- brane of the vitreous humor. Its anterior margin is called the ora serrata, from its ragged outline. Upon the posterior portion of the retina may be perceived the following points of interest: The colliculus, where the optic nerve escapes. The yellow spot (macula lutea, limbus luteus of Sommering). The fovea centralis, in the centre of the yellow spot. The orifice of escape of the arteria centralis retinae. The structure of the retina, although still a subject of investi- gation, presents the following points of practical anatomical im- portance. The pigmentary layer. The layer of Jacob’s rods and cones. The layer of granules, or the middle layer. The layer of expanded nerve fibres and of nerve cells. The membrana limitans. The rods and the cones, which form the characteristic feature of the external layer, are arranged perpendicularly, and the bulb- ous ends of the cones are directed towards the internal surface of the retina. No rods are present in the macula lutea. The granules of the middle layer vary in their size and appear- ance, and this layer is therefore, by some, subdivided into from three to\five layers. These layers are traversed by fibres, called sustentacular fibres or the fibres of Muller. The nervous layer is the most internal, except the membrana limitans, and the nerve cells, contained within it, communicate