THE TESTICLE. 567 extent, with columnar epithelium. In the fossa navicularis, how- ever, the epithelial covering is of the squamous variety. The mucous coat differs in its color in certain portions of the canal, being pale in the prostatic portion, and of a deeper red color in the two remaining portions. It is also smooth in the prostatic portion, and is thrown into longitudinal folds in the remaining portions, except when the canal is distended with urine. Thz glands of the mucous coat are called the glands of Littre, and are of surgical importance, since their mouths open forwards, and thus often afford an obstruction to the introduction of instru- ments into the bladder. They are most abundant in the spongy portion of the urethra. The erectile coat of the1 urethra is very extensively developed in the spongy portion, since it forms the corpus spongiosum, and it is also distributed as a thin layer over the membranous and the prostatic portions. In the latter situation, the erectile coat forms the caput gallinaginis. The urethral canal of a child is longer in its membranous por- tion, in proportion to the entire length of the canal, than in the adult, since the prostate gland is small and imperfectly developed. The curve of the urethra of the child is also greater than in the adult, since the bladder is placed higher up in the abdomen ; and the coats of the canal furthermore are thin and delicate, and are, therefore, liable to be injured in attempts at catheterism. THE TESTICLE. The testicle is the organ which secretes the seminal fluid. It is of oval form, and is suspended by the spermatic cord. Within the scrotum, it hangs obliquely, and presents an upper and lower extremity, two lateral surfaces, and an anterior and a posterior border. It is protected by the following external coverings: Integument of the scrotum. Dartos of the scrotum. Intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia. Cremasteric layer. Fascia propria or infundibuliform process. Tunica vaginalis, (two layers.) The integument of the scrotum is closely united to the dartos, and is divided, by the median raphe of the scrotum, into two lat- eral halves.