351 BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL CAROTID. f Superior thyroid. From its anterior aspect (4) -j [ Internal maxillary. {Occipital. Posterior auricular. Temporal. From its posterior and internal aspect.. (1) ■{ Ascending pharyngeal. BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. Of the eight branches which are given off from the external carotid artery, some have no special importance, save their branches of distribution, which can be easily acquired from the tabular arrangement which has previously been given. It has been deemed sufficient therefore to enumerate only those points pertaining to the separate vessels or their branches, which pos- sess some surgical interest. SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY. This artery is fourth, in point of size, of the branches of the external carotid. It arises, on the average, about one-eighth of an inch from the point of bifurcation of the common carotid. It has four branches, three of which are constant. The sterno- mastoid branch is often called the descending cervical branch. The superior thyroid artery supplies the muscles of the hyoid bone, the sterno-mastoid and neighboring muscles, the muscles, mucous membrane and glands of the larynx, and the upper and outer surface of the thyroid gland. It can often be distinctly felt by placing the finger upon the upper and front portion of the thy- roid gland. The crico-thyroid branch is often wounded in the operation of laryngotomy, while the sterno-mastoid branch possesses a surgical importance from its relation to the sheath of the common carotid artery. The superior laryngeal branch has, in several instances, caused fatal hemorrhage in attempts to relieve oedema glottidis by puncture. LINGUAL ARTERY. The lingual artery arises at a point situated about three quar- ters of an inch above the point of bifurcation of the common car- otid artery, and, in point of size, is third of all the branches of the external carotid. In every three and a half cases, this artery, however, arises by a common trunk in connection with some other vessel. The branches of the Exter- nal CAROTID artery are j given off as follows: I