ANGIOLOGY. 362 in the fissure of Sylvius, where it divides into three branches ; one supplying the anterior lobe of the brain; a posterior supplying the middle lobe; and a middle supplying the island of Reil. This artery upon the left side is the most frequent seat of em- bolic obstruction, since the upward current of blood finds a nearly ' straight channel from the aortic arch to this vessel; the right side presenting a less direct channel on account of the angle at which the innominate artery leaves the aortic arch. The posterior communicating artery serves to join the internal carotid artery with the posterior cerebral branch of the basilar artery. This artery helps to form the arterial circle at the base of the brain, called the circle of Willis. The anterior choroid artery is distributed to the middle cornu of the lateral ventricle of the brain. Circle of Willis. A remarkable anastomosis exists between the vessels at the base of the brain by which the circulation not only of the brain but also of all structures entering into the formation of the head and neck, to a great extent, is equalized; and by which the re- sults of any obliteration of one or even two of the larger vessels may be speedily remedied by a corresponding enlargement of the others. This anastomosis, which is known as the circle of Willis, results from a series of communications between the following arteries. 1. The two anterior cerebral arteries are connected by the an- terior communicating artery. 2. The anterior cerebral arteries, which assist in forming the circle are direct branches of the internal carotid artery of either side. 3. The internal carotid arteries of each side are united to the two posterior cerebral arteries by the posterior commun- icating branches. 4. The posterior cerebral arteries themselves arise from a single trunk, viz., the basilar artery. Thus, from before backwards, we perceive the anterior com- municating artery, next the two anterior cerebrals, next the in- ternal carotid trunks, next the two posterior communicating ar- teries, next the two posterior cerebral arteries, and finally the basilar artery, where the last mentioned vessels converge. Within the space or area, enclosed by this vascular circle, may be found the following parts, in their respective order from before backwards.