VENTRICLES OF ENCEPHALON. 447 The points of interest pertaining to the floor of this ventricle will be found separately considered under the description of the under surface of the cerebrum. THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. This cavity of the brain is rhomboidal in form and is comprised between the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and the cerebellum. It is enclosed, inferiorly, by the pia mater which binds these parts together. It is situated on a plane below the level of the base of the brain. It communicates with the cavity of the third ventricle by means of the iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum or aqueduct of Sylvius ; and also with the sub-arach- noidean space of the brain and spinal cord, by means of an opening in the pia mater, near the floor of the ventricle. Into this cavity, the pia mater of the brain is prolonged as a vascular fold, called the choroid plexus, which derives its blood chiefly from the inferior cerebellar artery. By some authorities, this ventricle is considered to be a dilated portion of the central canal of the spinal cord; and the aqueduct of Sylvius is also regarded as a continuation of the same canal. Fourth Ventricle (boundaries). . .Posterior surface of medulla and pons Varolii. .. Substance of the cerebellum, j Valve of Vieussens. ( The cerebellum. . .Processus e cerebello ad testes, j Posterior pyramids. ( Restiform bodies. The floor of this cazdty presents for examination the following points, which have been specially named. The posterior median fissure. The orifice of the central canal of the spinal cord. The locus cceruleus (named from its blue tint). The tcenia violacea (also of blue color). The fasiculi teretes (two spindle-shaped elevations). Various eminences, indicating the position of the nuclei of origin of certain of the cranial nerves. Fifth VENTRlCLE*(boundaries). This ventricle is formed by a separation of the two layers of the septum lucidum and is situated between the two lateral ven- tricles. It is bounded, above, by the corpus callosum, and it usually contains fluid. In the foetus, it communicates with the In front. Behind Above ! Above Below