298 MYOLOGY. cept in the thumb, represents the number of muscles acting upon it singly, in addition to the tendons of the three muscles acting in common upon the fingers. Table of the Muscles Divided in Amputatation at any of the Joints of the Upper Extremity. Muscles passing over two joints. HEAD AND NECK TRUNK Muscles passing over one joint. 1 Sterno-cleido-mas- 1 toid. _ L 2 Sterno-hyoid. 3 Omo-hyoid. J 1 Pectoralis major. 2 Latissimus dorsi. 1 Biceps flexor cubiti. 1 3 Triceps exten.cubitiJ 1 Flexor carpi radialis- 2 Palmaris longus. 3 Flexor sublimis dig. 4 Flexor carpi ulnaris. 5 Extensor car. radial- is longior. 6 Ex. carpi rad. brev. 7 Extensor communis digitorum. 8 Extensor min. digiti 9 Extensor carpi ulna-j ris. 1 Subclavius. 2 Pectoralis minor. 3 Serratus magnus. 4 Trapezius. 5 Levator anguli scap- ulae. 6 Rhomboideus minor. 7 Rhomboideus major. 1 Deltoid. 2 Supra-spinatus. 3 Infra-spinatus. 4 Teres minor. 5 Teres major. 6 Subscapularis. 7 Coraco-brachialis. 1 Brachialis anticus. 2 Pronator radii teres. 3 Anconeus. 4 Supinator longus. 5 Supinator brevis. 1 Flexor long, pollicis. 2 Flexor profund. dig. 3 Ex. ossis meta. pol. 4 Ex. primi. int. pol. 5 Ex. sec. int. pollicis. 6 Extensor indicis. In this table four knives are represented as placed succes- sively between the trunk and shoulder joints; the shoulder and the arm ; the arm and forearm ; and the forearm and hand ; thus indicating the amputations to be performed. On one side of the knives, are arranged the number of muscles crossing one joint, and, on the other side, the number of muscles crossing two joints., before their insertion into a bone. The lines crossing the blade of the knife indicates the sets of muscles divided ; and the numbers at the extremity of those lines indicate the total of each of these sets of muscles. As an example, the first knife makes an imaginary amputation between the trunk and the shoulder, thus removing the scapula and the clavicle. The blade is crossed by three lines, indicating that three sets of muscles are divided. These lines, if traced to their termination, disclose the three sets of muscles to be as follows: