ANGIOLOGY. 342 transverse portions of the arch. It is a matter of surgical inter- est that, at this point, is thoracic aneurism most frequently de- veloped and atheromanous changes most frequently detected, and the explanation of this fact seems to be justly an anatomical one. The situation of the innominate artery being just above this weak point, and so placed that the current of blood by im- pinging upon the roof of the arch shall subject it to a strain second only to that borne at the sinus magnum, will also explain why this vessel is the next most frequently affected either with atheromatous degeneration or aneurism. The left carotid, from its anatomical situation, is still less frequently involved than the innominate, as it is subjected to less strain ; while the left sub- clavian artery, from its situation and the angle at which it leaves the arch (nearly ninety degrees), is so ensured against excessive pressure that it is rarely the seat of aneurismal dilitations. The ascending portion of the arch, being enclosed within the pericardium and being also the most frequently affected with aneurismal disease of any vessel in the arterial system, presents symptoms not in common with aneurismal sacs in other locali- ties and which allow of an explanation on a purely anatomical basis. If the aneurismal sac be situated low down, in the region of the aortic sinuses, the right coronary sinus of the heart becomes pressed upon early, from enlargement of the tumor in the ante- rior direction, since the regurgitation of blood produces the greatest pressure upon that aspect of the vessel, and the nutrition of the heart may thus be interfered with. In the more advanced stages of development, however, the tumor may by pressure im- pede either the current in the pulmonary artery, or in the supe- rior vena cava ; or it may possibly interfere with the free action of the right auricle or even of the right ventricle. Thus cyanosis, distended jugulars, a bruit in the pulmonary artery on ausculta- tion, or irregular hearts action may ensue. If the aneurism of the ascending arch be higher up, as is most common, the tumor develops, as a rule, to the right of the median line, and, when of large size, tends to approach the ante- rior aspect of the thorax. We frequently therefore find the ster- num and the ribs of the right side undergoing rapid absorption and a pulsating tumor develops in the locality of the manubrium. By pressure of the tumor upon the neighboring parts, symptoms referred to the right lung and those to impairment of the trachea, main bronchi or oesophagus, may also simultaneously develop.