THYMUS GLAND. 554 The lateral lobes are broader below than above, since they be- come constricted at the isthmus of the gland. They are about two inches long, at their broadest part, and three-quarters of an inch in depth. They extend from the inferior cornua of the thy- roid cartilage of the larynx, to the level of the fifth cartilage of the trachea. The isthmus of the thyroid gland connects the two lateral lobes and lies transversely across the trachea on a level, in the majority of subjects, with the third or the fourth ring, although the line of crossing varies. The 'pyramid or third lobe of the thyroid gland is often absent, but, when present, it is situated between the hyoid bone and the isthmus, to both of which it is often attached, although it may be connected to the lateral lobe of either side. The thyroid gland is enclosed within a capsule, and is com- posed of a multitude of small closed vesicles, which are flattened somewhat by pressure, and which are connected together by are- olar tissue. It has no duct, and its function is not positively known. The arteries are remarkable for their size, and for their fre- quent anastomoses. The veins open into the superior, the middle, and the inferior thyroid veins. The nerves are derived from the middle and the inferior cer- vical ganglia of the sympathetic. THE THYMUS GLAND. The thymus gland is a soft lobulated mass of a pinkish-grey color, which is situated in the upper part of the anterior medias- tinum, and in the lower part of the neck, at the time of its most extensive development, which occurs at the end of the second year. When fully developed, this gland weighs about half an ounce, and measures nearly two inches in length, but, as atrophy soon begins, it decreases rapidly in size, and, by the age of puberty, almost all signs of glandular structure have disappeared. The thymus gland, when fully developed, presents a base, an apex, an anterior surface, and a posterior surface. The base rests upon the upper portion of the pericardial sac. The apex often reaches to the lower border of the thyroid gland. The anterior surface is convex, and is in relation with the two