72 THE SKULL IN GENERAL. This fossa communicates with the temporal fossa, beneath the zygomatic arch, and also with the orbit and the spheno-maxillary fossa. The following table illustrates the channels of communi- cation between these three cavities. The Zygomatic fossa communicates f Beneath the zygomatic arch with the \ Temporal fossa. Through the spheno-maxillary fis- sure with the | Through the pterygo-maxillary fis- j Spheno-maxillary fossa. Orbital fossa. sure with the ( The spheno-maxillary fissure is a large sized space situated between the sphenoid and malar bones, on the outside, and the superior maxillary and palate bones, on the inside of the opening. The malar bone, however, does not always enter into its formation. It joins at a right angle with the pterygo-maxillary fissure, which exists between the superior maxillary bone and the ptery- goid process of the sphenoid bone, and thus affords an opening into the spheno-maxillary fossa. This fissure is the means of communication between the orbit, on the one hand, and three cavities, viz., the temporal, zygomatic and the spheno-maxillary fossae, on the other. It transmits the infra-orbital artery, the superior maxillary nerve and its orbital branches, and the ascending branches of Meckel’s ganglion. This fissure is horizontal in its direction, and is situated at the outer and back part of the orbit. The pterygo-maxillary fissure is situated between the tuber- osity of the superior maxillary bone and the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. It joins the spheno-maxillary fissure, at a right angle, and trans- mits the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery, in its passage from the zygomatic fossa to the spheno-maxillary fossa. It is vertical, in direction, and is rather an elongated interval between the bones mentioned above, than a true fissure. Spheno-maxillary Fossa. The space, called by this name, is a narrow and elongated cavity, triangular in form, comprised between the pterygoid pro- cess of the sphenoid bone and the tuberosity of the superior max- illary bone. It is bounded as follows : c Above by the... The Spheno-maxillary f /ro„, b the 170CCA ic nnn n H pn a c J J fossa is bounded as follows j Under surface of the body of the l Sphenoid bone. Superior maxillary bone. Behind by the j Pt^|°id prOCeSS 0f the SPhenoid y Internally by the... -{ Vertical plate of the Palate bone.