92 SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. (6.) The transverse processes of the dorsal region, on account of their inclination backwards, describe a greater curve than the bodies of that region. (7.) The spinous processes of the dorsal region, on account of their inclination downwards, describe a lesser curve than do the bodies of the vertebrae of that region. On viewing the spinal column posteriorly, we notice the fol- lowing points of difference in the cervical, dorsal and lumbar regions: ( Broad and shallow in the cervical region. (i.) The Vertebral groove is < Narrow and deep in the dorsal region. ( Narrow and shallow in the lumbar region. (2.) The lamince are not equidistant from each other in all parts of the spinal column, being widest apart in the lumbar region and nearest together in the middle of the dorsal region. (3.) The width between the tips of the transverse processes of the vertebrae also varies greatly. It increases, from above downwards, in the cervical region, diminishes in the dorsal region, and again increases in the lumbar region, till it reaches its maximum at the base of the sacrum. The superior articular facets of the spinal column look up- wards in the cervical region, outwards in the dorsal region, and inwards in the lumbar region. It will thus be seen that the cer- vical vertebrae can be most easily dislocated. This important point can be easily remembered by writing the three last vowels, I, O. U., and over them the initial letters of the regions of the spine, in their order from below upwards, thus indicating the direction of the facet in each region. L. D. C. = Lumbar. Dorsal. I. O. U. = Inwards Outwards. Cervical. Upwards. The length of the true spinal column i. e. above the sacrum, is usually one-third of the height of a perfectly proportioned man. Each vertebra has three primary centres of ossification, and five complimentary centres. The three primary centres of ossification are as follows : j laminae 2 The five complimentary centres are as follows: 3 f For upper surface.... 1 J For lower surface 1 J For trans. processes,.. 2 f For spinous process... 1 ~5