391 BRANCHES OF AXILLARY ARTERY. The superior thoracic branch is small in size, and arises either from the axillary artery as a direct branch, or from a trunk in common with the acromial thoracic. Its seat of origin is usually just above the upper border of the pectoralis minor muscle. It passes forwards and inwards between the pectoral muscles and is distributed to these muscles and the wall of the chest. It anastomoses with branches of the internal mammary artery, and the intercostal vessels of the first and second intercostal spaces. The acromial thoracic branch arises from the anterior aspect of the axillary artery, and is a large and, by far the most con- stant branch of this vessel. It passes forwards at the level of the upper border of the pectoralis minor muscle, and soon divides into two sets of branches which pass in opposite directions, one going inwards to the chest wall, and the other outwards to the acromion process of the scapula. Its thoracic branches supply the serratus magnus and the pectoral muscles, and anastomose with the inter- nal mammary and intercostal arteries, and with the thoracic branches of the axillary. The acromial branches may be divided into an ascending and a descending set. The former pass upwards to the upper surface of the acromion process, and there anasto- mose with branches of the supra-scapular and posterior circum- flex arteries. The latter pass downwards, in company with the cephalic vein, in the interval formed between the inferior edge of the deltoid and the substance of the pectoralis major muscle, and sends branches of nutrition to both of these muscles durine its descent. The thoracica longa runs along the lower border of the pec- toralis minor muscle in a direction forwards and inwards till the mammary gland is reached. It has been called by some anato- mists the “ external mammary artery ” from this peculiarity of course and distribution. It sends branches to the serratus mag- nus and the pectoralis major and minor muscles, and anastomoses with the intercostals and the internal mammary arteries. It sends also branches to the lymphatic glands and the cellular tissue of the axillary space. The thoracica alaris is often wanting. It is distributed, when present, to the glands and areolar tissue of the axilla. Its place is supplied, when the artery is wanting, by branches of the sub- scapular and the acromial and long thoracic arteries. The SUBSCAPULAR ARTERY is the largest branch of the axil- lary. It arises from that vessel close to the lower border of the subscapular muscle, and is the last branch of the second portion