50 BONES OF THE FACE. (E.) The Palate Process. This portion of the bone presents for examination two sur- faces and three borders. The upper surface is concave, from side to side, and forms a portion of the floor of the nasal fossa. It presents, in its an- terior portion, a foramen called the incisor foramen, or the fora- men of Stenson. This foramen leads into a canal, called the ante- rior palatine canal, as do also two smaller foramina, which can be seen only from the under surface of the palate process and which are called the foramina of Scarpa. The foramina of Stenson transmit the anterior palatine vessels and the foramina of Scarpa transmit the naso-palatine nerves. The under surface of the palate process of the superior maxillary bone is concave and forms the anterior portion of the roof of the mouth. It has a rough surface and is channelled by a groove (occasionally by a complete canal) for the protection of the posterior palatine vessels and the anterior or great palatine nerve. At its posterior part, is seen the lower orifice of the pos- terior palatine canal. The inner border of the palate process is raised into a ridge which, with its fellow, forms a groove for the vomer. At its an- terior extremity, a projection, called the anterior nasal spine, is perceived. The anterior border of the palate process forms the lower part of the anterior aperture of the nasal fossa. The posterior border of the palate process articulates with the horizontal plate of the palate bone. Muscles attached to the Superior Maxillary Bone. Orbicularis palpebrarum. Levator labii superioris alaequa nasi. Levator proprius labii su- perioris. Levator anguli oris. Compressor naris. Depressor alae nasi. Orbicularis oris. Inferior oblique of the Eye. Buccinator. Masseter. External pterygoid. r To nasal process. The Superior Max- illary bone gives j attachment to ii muscles, as follows: To body, r Outer surface... Facial surface... Orbital surface.. (2) (4) (i) (i) To alveolar process (i) To malar process (i) To the tuberosity O) Total, II