522 OX GAN'S OF DIGESTION. length. It presents, on the inner wall of its descending portion, the openings of the pancreatic and bile ducts, which are usually contained within a small papilla upon its mucous surface. The JEJUNUM, the second portion of the small intestine,com- mences at the left of the 2d lumbar vertebra and is crossed by the superior mesenteric artery. It is larger and thicker than the ileum, and, as no line of division exists, its point of termination, and therefore its length, must remain a matter of measurement only. Its name is given to it from the fact that this portion of the intestine is usually found empty after death. Its length is usually given as two-fifths of the balance of the small intestine, after the length of the duodenum has been deducted. The coils of the jejunum lie in the immediate vicinity of the umbilicus, while those of the ileum lie below that level. The ILEUM comprises the remaining three-fifths of the balance of the small intestine, after the length of the duodenum has been deducted, and terminates at the ileo-ccecal valve, where it joins the first division of the large intestine. Its name is given from its twisted course. The CAECUM, the first division of the large intestine, is a cul- de-sac, about two and a half inches in length and the same in width, which is situated in the right iliac fossa of the abdomen, where it is retained in position by a fold of the peritoneum, called the meso-cczcum. It presents a tubular prolongation, called the appendix vermiformis, which varies from two to six inches in length, is of the diameter of a goose quill, is connected with the lower and back part of the caecum, and is usually directed up- wards and inwards behind it and is there retained by a fold of peritoneum. The ileo-ccecal valve, called also the ileo-colic valve, and the valve of Bauhin and of Tulpius, is formed by two cre- scentic folds of the mucous and submucous coats of the intestine and by the circular fibres of the intestine. The COLON, or second portion of the large intestine, is usually subdivided, from the direction of its course, into four distinct por- tions, called respectively the ascending colon, the transverse colon, the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure. The ascending colon extends upwards to the under surface of the liver where it curves to the left, forming the hepatic flexure of the colon; the transverse colon, called also the arch of the colon, continues from this point to the left hypochondriac region, where it bends downwards, forming the splenic flexure of the colon ; the descending colon extends from this point to the crest of the ilium, where it becomes the sigmoid flexure, and, finally,