395 RADIAL ARTERY. enters the nutrient canal of that bone, passing downwards towards the elbow joint. The superior profunda branch accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve in the groove of the same name. It gives an articular branch to the elbow joint. The inferior profunda branch bears a close relation to the ulnar nerve. The anastomotica magna forms an arch, above the olecranon fossa of the humerus, with the articular branch of the superior profunda artery. The last three branches of the brachial artery, by anastomosis with each other and with recurrent branches from the vessels of the forearm, afford nutrition to the elbow joint and the investing structures. If compression of the brachial artery is required in the upper part of the arm, the force should be directed upon the artery from within outwards ; and, if in the lower part of the arm, from before backwards. The most favorable situation, however, is near the point of insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle. The lower part of the brachial artery, on account of its rela- tion to the veins most commonly opened in venesection, is of great surgical interest. The median basilic vein, which is the largest and most prominent, lies in close relation with the brachial artery, and, in case it should be selected for the operation, that portion of the vein which is not in contact with the artery, should be opened. RADIAL ARTERY. The radial artery is the smallest of the two terminal branches of the brachial artery, and takes its origin at a point, one-half of an inch below the bend of the elbow. It passes down along the outer side of the anterior surface of the forearm to the styloid process of the radius. It then curves around the outer side of the carpus beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, to the upper part of the first interosseous space of the hand, where it passes between the two heads of the abductor indicis muscle ; then over the bases of the metacarpal bones, passing beneath the flexor tendons, the lumbricales muscles and the nerves of the palm of the hand, till it reaches the base of the 5th metacarpal bone, where it inosculates with the communicating branch of the ulnar artery, and thus forms the deep palmar arch. The deep palmar arch lies about a finger s breadth above the