397 ULNAR ARTERY. The superficialis voice branch completes, by its junction with the main trunk of the ulnar artery, the superficial palmar arch. The posterior carpal branch, by anastomosing with the poste- rior carpal branch of the ulnar artery, forms the posterior carpal arch, beneath the extensor tendons of the forearm. This arch gives off dorsal interosseous branches to the third and fourth spaces of the hand, which anastomose with the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch. The metacarpal branch corresponds to the dorsal interosseous artery of the second space. It arises beneath the extensor ten- dons of the thumb. The dorsalis indicis and the dorsalis pollicis, correspond to- gether, to a first dorsal interosseous artery, supplying the back of the thumb and the outer side of the back of the index finger. The princeps pollicis and the radialis indicis corresponds to- gether, to a first palmar interosseous artery, supplying both sides of the palmar surface of the thumb and the outer side of the front part of the index finger. The perforating branches of the radial artery are three in num- ber and pass through the three inner interosseous spaces to an- astomose with the corresponding dorsal interosseous arteries. The deep palmar interosseous branches of the radial artery are usually three or four in number. They descend in front of the interosseous spaces, and, at the base of the fingers, join with the superficial palmar interosseous branches from the superficial pal- mar arch, and then bifurcate to form digital branches to three and a half fingers on the inner side of the hand. ULNAR ARTERY. The ulnar artery is the largest branch of bifurcation of the brachial artery, and arises, like the radial artery, from a point opposite the neck of the radius or half an inch below the bend of the elbow. This artery is deeply situated, till it reaches the middle of the inner border of the forearm, where it becomes superficial and en- ters into close relation with the ulnar nerve. It crosses the ante- rior annular ligament of the wrist, on the outer side of the pisi- form bone and slightly in front of the ulnar nerve. From this point the ulnar artery crosses the palm of the hand, in front of the flexor tendons and the terminal filaments of the median an i ulnar nerves, and, by joining with the superficialis voloe branch of the radial, it forms the superficial palmar arch.