431 IMPOR TANT L YMPHA TIC VESSELS. to its entrance, divides into branches, which are called the affer- ent vessels of the gland, and the vessels which escape from the glands are called the efferent vessels. Within the gland the lym- phatics form a plexus and are much thinner than elsewhere, since they lose their external coat, which becomes continuous with the capsule of the gland. The largest vessels of the lymphatic system are known as the thoracic duct and the right lymphatic duct. The THORACIC DUCT commences in a dilated pouch, called the receptaculum chyli, which lies in front of the 2d lumbar ver- tebra, behind the aorta and between it and the vena azygos major. It receives the trunks of all lacteal vessels and four or five large trunks, from the lumbar lymphatic glands. It passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and, in its course through the chest, is situated behind the oesophagus, and for a portion of its course, between the aorta and the vena azygos major. On a level with the 4th dorsal vertebra, it inclines towards the left side of the body and passes behind the arch of the aorta and the first portion of the left subclavian artery. On a level with the 7th cervical vertebra, it arches forwards above the pleura and in front of the scalenus anticus muscle, and opens into the angle of junction of the left internal jugular and the left subcla- vian veins, which opening is guarded by a pair of valves. Through- out its course it contains valves which give it, at intervals, a con- stricted appearance, and it also varies in its size, being largest at its upper and lower portions. It is the common trunk of all the lymphatics of the body, excepting those of the right side of the head, neck, and thorax, and the right upper limb, right lung, right side of the heart, and part of the convex surface of the liver. It is about sixteen and a half inches long. The RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCT is a short thick trunk, about one line and a half in diameter, and about one inch in length, which collects the lymph from those portions of the body, which are unconnected with the thoracic duct. It opens into the angle of junction between the right internal jugular and the right subclavian veins, this opening being also guarded, as on the left side of the body, by a pair of valves. The lymphatics of the head and neck consist of superficial and deep lymphatic vessels and superficial and deep lymphatic glands. The important vessels accompany the larger arterial trunks of the head and neck, while the glands are principally situated in the lateral regions of the neck and in the vicinity of the base of the skull and the angle of the lower jaw.