ANGIOLOG Y. 418 sal interosseous artery, and supplies digital branches to the dorsum of one and a half toes on the inner side of the foot. The communicating branch dips downwards between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, and, by joining with the external plantar artery completes the plantar arch. It also gives off, on the sole of the foot, digital branches to one and a half toes on the inner side of the foot. POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. This artery arises, as a branch of bifurcation of the popliteal artery, at the lower border of the popliteus muscle. It divides in the vicinity of the internal malleolus, into the two plantar arte- ries. The most frequent point of division into the plantar arte- ries may be described by a line drawn from the tip of the internal malleolus to the middle of the convexity of the heel, which will intersect the artery at its point of bifurcation ; and any variations from this point are usually below rather than above the level of this line. The internal popliteal nerve is, at first, posterior and internal to the artery, but it soon crosses to its outer side. The direction of the posterior tibial artery may be indicated by a line drawn from the central point of the upper part of the calf to a point behind the ankle and one half inch posterior to the tibia, where the artery can often be felt to pulsate. Branches. The posterior tibial artery gives off seven branches, including its two terminal trunks, as is shown in the following table. Posterior Tibial Artery. (7 branches.) r f Muscular. P I J Nutrient to fibula. ’ j Communicating with post tibial. ^Anterior peroneal. Muscular branches. Nutrient to tibia. Communicating to peroneal. Internal calcanean. Internal plantar, j „ External plantar. ( Terminal branches. The PERONEAL branch is given off about one inch below the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and it extends to the outer side of the os-calcis, where it joins with the external malleolar and the external plantar arteries. It supplies the soleus, the three pe- ronei, and the muscles of the deep layer of the leg. It also gives off a nutrient artery to the fibula, a communicating branch to the posterior tibial artery, and a large branch, called the anterior