THE INTESTINAL CANAL. 523 this latter portion terminates in the rectum, at a point opposite the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis. The close relation of the colon to the gall bladder often causes a staining of that portion of the intestine after death. The ascending colon is bound down by the peritoneum to the quadratus lumborum muscle and the right kidney ; the transverse colon is extremely movable, since it is comprised between the two ascending layers of the great omentum ; the descending colon is also partially connected to the left kidney, the left crus of the diaphragm, and the quadratus lumborum muscle; while the sigmoid flexure of the colon is again freely movable, being re- tained only by a loose fold of peritoneum. The RECTUM commences at the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis and terminates at the anus. It is about eight inches long and is divided into three portions called, respectively, the upper, the middle, and the lower portions. It is smooth and cylindrical in form, and, in this respect, differs from the other portions of the large intestine, which are ,saculated. The first portion extends to the third piece of the sacrum, and is about four inches long. It is almost completely surrounded by a fold of peritoneum, called the meso-rectum, and rests upon the sacral plexus of the left side. The middle portion extends from the third bone of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx, and is about three inches long. It is in relation, in the male sex, with the triangular space at the base of the bladder, which corresponds to the trigone, and also with the vesiculse seminales and the under surface of the prostate gland. This relation is of surgical importance, if puncture of the bladder through the rectum be attempted. The lower portion of the rectum extends from the tip of the coccyx to the anus, and is about one inch in length. It is invested by the two sphincter muscles of the rectum and by fibres of the levator ani muscle; and is separated by a triangular space, called the perineum, from the bulb of the urethra, in the male, and from the vagina in the female. The large and SMALL INTESTINE each consist oi four coats, viz., the serous, the muscular, the cellular, and the mucous coats. The serous coat is formed by the peritoneum, the muscular coat consists of circular and longitudinal fibres, the cellular coat affords an opportunity for the division of vessels before they enter the mucous membrane, and the mucous coat forms the internal lining of the tubes. The small intestine contains the following points of interest.