SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. io 6 Base of Sacrum. This portion of the sacrum has the appearance of a lumbar vertebra. Thus the body, pedicles, laminae, spinous and trans- verse processes, etc., belonging to the 1st sacral vertebra may be discerned. The spinal foramen is large and triangular, the artic- ular processes are similar to those of the lumbar vertebrae, but more widely expanded, while the body is prominent and forms a part of the sacro-vertebral angle. Apex of Sacrum. The apex of the sacrum curves downwards and forwards, and presents a small oval surface, articulating with the first bone of the coccyx. Sacral Canal. The sacral canal is large and triangular in shape, at the upper portion of the bone, but it becomes small in size and flattened, at the lower portion. In this latter situation the posterior wall is incomplete, from the non development of the laminae and the spinous processes, hence the serious effects of injuries to this part. Sloughs from bed-sores, in this region sometimes open into the spinal canal. Into it open, laterally, both the anterior and posterior sacral foramina. These foramina, as well as the sacral canal, transmit only branches of the cauda equina, since the spinal cord itself extends only to the 2nd lumbar vertebra. Development of the Sacrum. The sacrum is developed by 35 centres of ossification, since it consists of 5 vertebrae. These centres are arranged as follows: The bodies of the 5 vertebrae have each 3 centres. Total, 15 The arches of each vertebra have 2 centres. “ 10 The lateral masses of the sacrum have each 3 centres. “ ' 6 The lateral surfaces of the sacrum have each 2 centres. “ 4 Muscles of the Sacrum. Total, 35 The sacrum affords attachment to eight pairs of muscles, as follows: The Sacrum affords attach- ment to 8 muscles, as fol- lows : To its anterior surface 1 muscle^ Pyriformis. To its base 1 muscleIliacus. To its side 1 muscleCoccygeus. To its posterior surf ace 5 muscles - Latissimus Dorsi. Erector Spin^e. Multifidus Spin,e. Gluteus Maximus, Extensor Coccygis.