ANGIOLOGY. 424 passing backwards and upwards from the posterior border of the foramen magnum, they open into the torcular Herophili. The lateral sinuses commence at the torcular Herophili and pass outwards, upon either side of this cavity, in the posterior attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli to the base of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; they then curve down- wards and inwards in a groove in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and also in the occipital bone, and terminate, at the jugular foramen, in the internal jugular vein. These sinuses receive blood from the cavernous sinus, through the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses, and, from the inferior cerebral and the inferior cerebellar veins, and, occasionally, from some veins of the diploe. The course of the greater part of the lateral sinuses of the dura mater corresponds to a line drawn upon the external por- tion of the skull from the external occipital protuberance to the anterior border of the mastoid process. The cavernous sinuses are large and short. They extend, on either side of the sella turcica, from the sphenoidal fissure to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. They com- municate with each other, through the circular and transverse sinuses, and, with the lateral sinuses, by the two petrosal sinuses. In the inner ivall of this sinus, separated from the blood by the lining membrane of the sinus, are the following structures, viz. The internal carotid artery, the 6th nerve, the carotid and cavern- ous plexuses of the sympathetic system. In the outer wall of this sinus, are enclosed the following structures, in their order from above downwards and from without inwards; viz., the third, the fourth, and the ophthalmic nerves. The superior petrosal sinuses extend along the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and are enclosed by the tentorium cerebelli. They serve to connect the cavernous and the lateral sinuses of the same side. The inferior petrosal sinuses lie in a groove in the petro-occipi- tal suture of the skull, and serve to connect the cavernous sinus of either side with the points of termination of the lateral sinuses, in the jugular foramina. The EXTERNAL JUGULAR vein commences in the substance of the parotid gland and descends down the neck superficially, to open into the subclavian vein. It has two valves, one situated at its point of termination, the other about an inch and a half above the clavicle. The external jugular vein is the chief superficial vein of the