125 THE CLA VICLE. The Scapula affords at- tachment to 16 muscles, as follows : To surfaces. (5) To processes .(5W 'o dorsal surface. (4) To costal surface. (1) fTo spinous and acro- mion To coracoid. (2) (3) {To superior border... (1) To axillary border.... (1) To vertebral border... (3) l To the posterior superior angle (1) Total, 16 {Supra-spinatus. Infra-spinatus. Teres minor. Teres m^jor. -{ Subscapularis. j Trapesius. 1 Deltoid. fPectoralis minor. }-Biceps flexor cubiti. [ Coraco-brachialis, Omo-hyoid, -{ Triceps extensor cubiti. {Rhomboideus minor. Rhomboideus major. Serratus magnus. Levator anguli scapulae. Articulation. The scapula articulates with two bones, viz., the humerus and the clavicle. Development. The scapula develops by seven centres of ossification, as fol- lows : One for the body—which appears at the 8th week of foetal life. Two “ " coracoid pi'ocess—which appears during the 1st year of age. Two “ “ acromion process— “ “ “ “ 15th and 16th year of age. One “ “ inferior angle— “ “ “ “ 16th “ “ One “ “ posterior border— “ “ “ “ 17th “ <# THE CLAVICLE. The clavicle (clavis, a key) or collar bone, is the most elastic bone in the body. It is usually classed as a long bone, although in its structure, it resembles rather a short bone. In shape it is curved like an italic {/) and is convex, anteriorly, and rounded, jn the inner two-thirds of the bone. In its outer third, it is anteriorly concave, and flattened, from above downwards. It presents for examination, first, an inner or cylindrical por- tion, second, an outer or flattened portion, third, an inner or sternal end, and fourth, an outer or acromial end. Inner or Cylindrical Portion. This portion of the bone presents for examination the follow- ing points: an anterior, a posterior, and a superior border, and an anterior, a posterior, and an inferior surface. The anterior border is continuous with the anterior border of the flattened portion of the bone, and affords attachment to the pectoralis major muscle.