275 MUSCLES OF SC A P ULO-HUMERA L REGION. fibres assist the latissimus dorsi and the teres major in drawing the arm backwards. The supra-spinatus muscle assists the deltoid in raising the arm from the side, and tends to fix the head of the humerus firmly in its socket. The infra-spmatus and teres minor muscles tend to rotate the arm outward, when the arm hangs at the side ; but, when the arm is raised, they help to sustain it in that position or to carry it backwards. The supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor and subscapularis muscles, in consequence of their close connection with the capsular ligament, may be styled “ capsular muscles ”; and when they all act together, they press the head of the humerus against the glen- oid cavity and thus prevent dislocation. The teres major muscle assists the latissimus dorsi in drawing the arm downwards and backwards, when previously raised, and also to rotate the arm inwards, when it hangs parallel to the chest wall. It assists also in drawing the trunk forwards, when the arm is made a fixed point, in which act it is greatly aided by the pec- toralis major and minor and the latissimus dorsi. An illustration of this function is seen in the act of climbing, or of walking upon crutches. The coraco-brachialis muscle assists in the acts of flexion and of elevation of the arm. NERVOUS SUPPLY OF MUSCLES FORMING THE SCAPULO-HUMERAL GROUP. The nerve supply of this group of muscles is as follows : The circumflex nerve supplies (2) j XeleTminor. The suprascapular nerve supplies (2) -j jnfr^spTnTtus!’ The subscapular nerve supplies (2) | Tere^major^* The musculo-cutaneous nerve supplies (1) -{ Coraco-brachialis. 7 POINTS OF SURGICAL INTEREST PERTAINING TO THE SCAPULO-HUMERAL GROUP OF MUSCLES. There are two important spaces formed in this region, into the composition of which the teres major and teres minor muscles of this group enter, and through which the circumflex and dorsalis scapulce vessels pass. These spaces are formed as follows :