THE LIVER. 53* transverse fissure of the liver. It is the vessel of nutrition of the organ. It probably terminates in the lobular plexus of veins in the centre of each of the lobules of the liver, but, according to some authorities its branches do not extend into the lobules. The portal vein is the main trunk of the portal system, and conveys blood from the intestinal tract, the stomach, and the spleen, to the transverse fissure of the liver. Its relations to the hepatic artery and duct, at this point, have been given in the de- scription of the transverse fissure. The portal vein gives off the following branches: 1st. Right and left portal. 2d. Vaginal branches. 3d. Inter-lobular branches. 4th. Lobular branches. The first two branches are distributed to the lobes of the same names. The vaginal brayiches are the main trunks of the portal sys- tem, after the vessels enter the substance of the liver. The inter-lobular branches are given off by the vaginal branches within the portal canals, and pass between the lobules of the liver. They give off converging branches, called lobular branches, which penetrate the substance of the lobules and assist to form the cen- tral vein of each lobule, to which the name intra-lobular vein is applied. The numerous lobular branches of each interlobular vein anastomose within the lobule and thus form what is called the lobular plexus of veins. The openings of the portal canals of the liver can be discerned from those of the hepatic veins, on section of the liver, since the latter stand wide open, being closely attached to the substance of that organ, while the portal veins are either entirely or par- tially closed, on account of the connective tissue which intervenes between them and the walls of the liver (capsule of Glisson). The hepatic veins are a direct continuation of the veins of the portal system, within the substance of each lobule of the liver. They arise from the lobular plexus of veins, and in reality, begin as the central or intra-lobular vein of each lobule. These intra- lobular veins escape at the base of each lobule as the sub-lobular veins, and these, by their union, assist to form'the so-called hepa- tic veins. The hepatic veins open into the inferior vena cava, at a deep depression in the posterior border of the liver. The biliary ducts are the vessels which convey the bile from the liver, and which form, by their union, the hepatic duct.