ORGANS OF GENERA TION. 564 ischium and from either of the ascending rami of that bone, and partly also from the descending rami of the pubes, and, after meeting beneath the symphysis, they pass, side by side, till they join, in front, to form a rounded extremity, which fits into a de- pression in the glans penis. The grooves, between the corpora cavernosa, contain the dorsal vessels and nerves, above, and the corpus spongiosum, below. The fibrous sheath, which invests the corpora cavernosa, forms a septum between them for the posterior two-thirds of their ex- tent, after they join in the median line, but is deficient in the an- terior third, thus affording a communication between the cav- ities of each. The comb-like fibres, which mark the gradual disappearance of this septum, form the “ septum pectiniforme." The corpus spongiosum commences at the point of union of the corpora cavernosa, in a swelling called the bulb of the corpus spongiosum, where it is penetrated by the membranous portion of the urethral canal; and passes forwards as an erectile tube, which encloses the urethra, till it expands into its anterior ex- tremity, the glans penis. The glans penis is the anterior extremity of that organ, and is protected by a prolongation of the integument of the penis, to which the term prepuce is applied. It presents the following por- tions to which special names have been applied: The meatus, or mouth of the urethra. The cervix, or constricted portion. The corona, or ridge of the glans. The frcenum preputii, or bridle of the prepuce. The integument of the penis differs from the integument of other localities, in being destitute of fat, in being darker colored, and in being more loosely connected to the adjacent parts. The ERECTILE TISSUE of the penis is composed of three sets of vessels, called, Afferent arteries. Efferent veins. Venous plexuses. The afferent arteries of the penis are chiefly derived from the artery of the bulb, and the artery of the corpora cavernosa; and they assist in forming capillary plexuses and long tortuous arte- ries, called helicine arteries. Theyefferent veins of the penis emerge from the corona glandis, from the upper and lower surfaces of the corpora cavernosa, and from the root of the penis. Those which emerge from the three first situations empty into the dorsal vein of the penis, while