2 y6 MYOLOGY, (A.) A quadrilateral space bounded by the surgical neck of the humerus, the teres minor, the subscapular head of the triceps, and the teres major. It gives passage to the posterior circumflex artery and vein and to the cir- cumflex nerve. (B:) A triangular space bounded by the triceps, teres minor, and teres major muscles. It gives passage to the dor- salis scapulce artery and vein. The subscapularis is a powerful defence to the front of the shoulder joint, and tends to prevent displacement of the hu- merus forwards. The teres minor and infraspinatus muscles pro- tect the joint posteriorly; and the supra spinatus muscle and the projection of the acromion process of the scapula, shield the upper portion of the articulation. In the varioiis forms of fracture of the humerus, which are met with above the junction of the middle and upper third of that bone, these muscles produce special forms of displacement of the fragments, which are of great value in determining the seat of fracture. Thus in case of the separation of the greater tubercle of the humerus, the fragment is drawn by the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles into close contact with the dorsum of the scapula; while the humerus is rotated inwards by the subscapularis, teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles (since the antagonistic force of the external rotator muscles is removed) and the arm is approxi- mated to the chest and drawn forwards by the pectoralis major. In case of fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus, the upper fragment is slightly elevated by the muscles attached to the greater and lesser tuberosities; and the lower fragment is drawn inwards by the pectoralis major, the latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. In some cases, the deltoid muscle produces also a displacement of the lower fragment obliquely outwards from the chest and occasionally elevates it to a marked degree. In case of fracture of the shaft of the humerus below the point of insertion of the teres major muscle, the upper fragment will be