THE PUBES. 113 the crus penis or clitoridis and to the falciform expansion of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The four rough spaces, between the two lips, give attachment to the adductor magnus, the semimembranosus, the common ten- don of the semitendinosus and the biceps, and to the great sacro- sciatic ligament. They are denominated the two superior and the two inferior spaces. Ascending Ramus of the Ischium. This portion of the bone is thin and flattened. Its direction is upwards and it bounds the obturator foramen inferiorly. It joins with the descending ramus of the pubes and presents for examination, (1) an outer surface, (2) an inner surface, (3) an upper border, and (4) a lower border. The outer surface is rough and gives attachment to three muscles, viz., the gracilis, the obturator externus and the adductor magnus. The inner surface is smoother than the outer and affords at- tachment for the obturator internus muscle. The upper border is thin and sharp and serves as a point of attachment for the obturator membrane. The lower border is rough and thick and gives attachment to three muscles (the gracilis, the erector penis or clitoridis and transversus perinei) and also to the crus penis or clitoridis, the deep perineal fascia and the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia. THE PUBES. This bone forms the anterior and inner portion of the os inno- minatum. It bounds the obturator foramen above and in front and may be subdivided for convenience of description into (1) A body. (2) A horizontal ramus. (3) A descending ramus. The body of the Pubes. This portion of the bone is quadrilateral in its shape and is flattened, from before backwards and outwards. It presents for consideration the following portions: (1) An anterior surface, (2) a posterior surface, (3) an upper border, (4) an inner border, and (5) an outer border. The anterior surface is rough and slightly excavated. It gives attachment, from above downwards, to five muscles, as follows: The adductor longus, the obturator externus, the adductor brevis, the abductor magnus, and the upper portion of the gracilis.