172 ARTHROLOGY OR SYNDESMOLOGY. The transverse ligament divides the ring of the atlas into two portions, and embraces the neck of the odontoid process of the axis. It extends between the tubercles, on the inner surface of each of the lateral masses of the atlas. This ligament gives off two fasciculi, one of which passes vertically upwards, and the other downwards, and thus form, with the transverse band, the so-called cruciform ligament. The capsular ligaments surround the two arthrodial articulations. There are four synovial membranes connected with this joint, one lining the inner surface of each of the capsular liga- ments, one between the anterior surface of the odontoid process and the posterior surface of the anterior arch of the atlas, and the other between the posterior surface of the odontoid process and the transverse ligament of the atlas. B. ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL The vertebrae are joined together by their bodies, their laminae, their articular processes, their spinous processes, and their trans- verse processes. The Bodies are united by three sets of ligaments, viz. .* I. Intervertebral discs. These are lenticular-shaped discs of fibro-cartilage, which are firmly adherent to the bodies of the ad- joining vertebrae. II. The anterior common ligament. This ligament joins the bodies of the vertebrae, in front, and extends from the axis to the sacrum. It is attached also to each of the intervertebral discs of fibro-cartilage between the vertebrae. III. The posterior common ligament. This ligament extends between the posterior sur- faces of the bodies of all the vertebrae from the axis above to the sacrum below. It is continuous, at its upper portion, with the occipito-axoid ligament. The ARTICULAR PROCESSES are united by two ligaments called the capsular ligaments, which are lined internally by a synovial membrane. The LAMINAE are joined together by highly elastic bands, one on either side, called the ligamenta subflava. The SPINOUS PROCESSES are joined together by two ligaments.