94 SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. The ribs are of three kinds and are named as follows: 1st. True Ribs (7 in number), which articulate with the sternum by their own cartilages. 2nd. False Ribs (3 in number), which have a common cartilage which does not reach the sternum. 3rd. Floating Ribs (2 in number), which are movable, at their anterior extremity, in the walls of the abdomen. The ribs increase in their length, from above downwards, from the first to the seventh, when the maximum length is attained. The lower four decrease in length from the eighth to the last. The breadth of the ribs increases steadily from the first to the last, as does also the width of the intercostal spaces. The obliquity of the ribs increases from the first to the ninth, and decreases from the ninth to the twelfth rib. The ribs are both curved and twisted upon themselves, this curve being most marked in the vicinity of the posterior angle of the bone. The angle of the ribs is farther from the head of the bone, as you descend from above downwards. The rib is the most vascular bone, in proportion to its size, in the human body. The vessels of the rib run near to its lower border, and, in tap- ping the chest, the trochar should be inserted as near to the up- per border of the rib as possible in order to avoid haemorrhage from injury to these vessels. The spines of the dorsal vertebrae, on account of their obliquity, do not lie on a level with the heads of the ribs which correspond to their bodies, but nearly with the level of the rib next below. This rule, however, does not apply to the eleventh and twelfth vertebrae. This point is of value in judging of the situation of the individual ribs, on the posterior surface of the thorax. Each rib presents for anatomical examination a shaft and two extremities. The posterior extremity presents a head, a neck and a tubercle. The following points of interest pertaining to these particular localities will be found embodied in the description given below. (1.) Posterior Extremity. Head of Rib. (1.) This portion of the bone presents two oblique facets, which are for the purpose of articulation with the bodies of two adjoining vertebrae.