MYOLOGY. 27 o Serratus Magnus. Origin. By nine fleshy digitations, from the outer surface and the upper border of the eight upper ribs. (The 2nd rib having two digitations). Insertion. Into the whole length of the anterior lip of the pos- terior border of the scapula. Nervous supply. From the posterior or long thoracic nerve. ACTION OF THE EXTRINSIC MUSCLES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The action of these muscles is demanded in various move- ments of the head, scapula and the humerus, If the head be made a fixed point, the trapezius muscle helps, through its upper fibres, to elevate the point of the shoulder, as in the acts of sup- porting weights, shrugging the shoulders, etc.; while, by means of its middle and lower fibres, a partial rotation of the scapula upon the side of the chest is produced. When the shoulders are fixed, both of the trapezii muscles, if acting together, will draw the head directly backwards; or, if only one act, the head will be drawn towards the corresponding side. The latissimus dorsi muscle, if the trunk be the fixed point, acts upon the arm and draws it downwards and backwards and subse- quently rotates the arm inwards, as is illustrated in the act of scratching the gluteal region. If this muscle acts in connection with the pectoralis major and the teres major muscles, the arm is adducted and closely approximated to the chest wall. If the arm be made a fixed point, the latissimus dorsi may assist in forcible inspiration by elevating the lower ribs (as is illustrated in the attitude assumed by asthmatic patients) ; or if it act in connec- tion with the pectoral and abdominal muscles, while the arms are made a point of resistance, the whole trunk may be drawn forward or upward, as is illustrated in the acts of climbing or walking upon crutches. The levator anguli scapulce raises the angle of the scapula, after it has been depressed by the trapezius ; and, if the shoulder be a fixed point, it may tend to incline the neck to the corresponding side. The rhomboid muscles, by carrying the angle of the scapula backwards and upwards, often produce a slight rotation of the