336 ANGIOLOGY. The large arteries, as a rule, pursue nearly a straight course but this like all rules has its exceptions. Frequently, however the configuration of certain parts demands tortuosity of vessels even of large calibre. This we see exemplified prominently in the facial artery, which, in the region of the lips and mouth, is extremely tortuous as are also its labial branches; since the in- cessant movements of the parts would be restricted, were the supplying vessels distributed in a line of direct transit to the parts destined to be supplied by them. In the uterus also we find the arterial vessels extremely tortu- ous. This has been explained on the ground that, during uterine expansion, the arteries were thus enabled to bear with ease a strain that might otherwise be dangerous to the nutrition of the organ if not even to the arterial coats themselves. Finally the internal carotids and the vertebral arteries, al- though running a course nearly if not absolutely straight, until near their entrance to the skull, suddenly become bent into a series of short and abrupt curves, as an evident attempt of nature to reduce the velocity of the blood current in the cerebral capil- laries, by the friction produced by the constantly deviating channel through which it is forced to pass. STRUCTURE OF ARTERIES. The arteries are composed of three coats; an internal serous or epithelial coat, a middle or elastic coat, and an external or cellular coat. To the first, the name of tunica intima, and to the last, the term tunica adventitia, has been applied by Kolliker, to whose investigations much of our present knowledge on this sub- ject is due. The two inner coats are easily detached from the external coat, and, from their inherent elasticity, they even tend to separate spontaneously when a ligature is applied to a vessel with a suf- ficient degree of pressure to divide them without injury to the external coat. The internal coat, however, is more adherent to the middle coat, since maceration is required to produce a sepa- ration. When the artery is fully distended the internal coat is smooth and offers little opportunity for friction to the blood current, but when the vessel is empty, as after death, this coat is thrown into longitudinal and transverse folds. The middle coat of the arteries is distinguished from the in- ternal coat by the circular arrangement of its fibres, in contradis-