THE PUBES directed downwards and outwards and joins with the ascending ramus of the ischium. It presents for examination two surfaces, an anterior and posterior, and two borders, an inner and an outer. The anterior surface is roughened and affords attachment to four muscles, viz. : the adductor brevis, the adductor magnus, the obturator externus, and the gracilis. The posterior surface is smoother than the anterior and af- fords attachment to the obturator internus muscle. The inner border is rough, thick and everted, especially in the female pelvis. It affords attachment to two muscles, the com- pressor urethrae and the erector penis or clitoridis, and also to the crus penis or clitoridis and to the deep perineal fascia and the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia. Its outer border is thin and sharp and affords attachment to the obturator membrane. Muscles attached to the Os Innominatum. The 36 muscles attached to the os innominatum may be clas- sified into four sets, as follows : (1) The ascending set, comprising io muscles. Of these, 5 form the anterior wall of the abdomen, and 5 form the posterior wall of the abdomen. (2) The DESCENDING set, comprising 15 muscles. Of these, 9 are inserted into the femur, and produce shortening of the thigh in case of fracture of that bone, and 6 are inserted into the bones of the leg. (3) The INTERNAL set, comprising 5 muscles. These muscles all pass towards the median line of the body and form the muscles of the perineum and the floor of the pelvis. (4) The EXTERNAL set, comprising 6 muscles. These muscles all pass directly outwards from the os innominatum. The special muscles included under these various groups are shown in the following table: The Ascending Set (10 muscles.) Anterior set (5 muscles). 'Rectus abdominis. Pyramidalis. - Obliquus abdominis externus. Obliquus abdominis internus. ^ Trans vers alis abdominis. f Latisstmus dorsi. Erector spinas. Posterior set (5 muscles). -{ Quadratus lumborum. I Multifidus Spin/e. [ Psoas parvus.