444 NEUROLOGY. These various commissures are situated in different portions of the brain, and the consideration of each, where deemed impor- tant, will be found in subsequent pages, under the description of those regions where they are chiefly developed. It will be seen by the preceding tables that the fornix is both a longitudinal and a transverse commissure. The brain is convoluted upon its external surface, in order to afford a larger expanse of grey nerve matter, which is most ex- tensively distributed to this region. Within its substance, it con- tains five cavities, which have been respectively named as follows. The two lateral ventricles. The third ventricle. The fourth ventricle. The fifth ventricle. The two lateral ventricles are contained in the two hemispheres of the cerebrum ; the fifth ventricle is situated between the two lat- eral ventricles; the third ventricle is situated between the two optic thalami; and the fourth ventricle is comprised between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. The two lateral ventricles and the fifth ventricle lie upon the same plane, within the brain substance; the third ventricle lies on a plane below that of the lateral ventricles, and reaches the floor of the brain ; while the fourth ventricles lies below the plane of the hemispheres of the cerebrum, being situated in the region of the medulla oblongata. The two lateral ventricles communicate with the third ventri- cle through the foramina of Monroe; and the third ventricle communicates with the fourth ventricle, through a canal termed the iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum. Each of these ventricles have special boundaries, which merit description. THE LATERAL VENTRICLES. These two cavites are situated within the substance of the hemispheres of the cerebrum. They can be best exposed by separating the hemispheres, and by dividing, at the bottom of the median fissure, the great transverse commissure of the hemis- pheres, called the corpus callosum, upon either side, at its line of junction with the cerebrum. A cavity will be thus perceived to exist within each hemisphere, which presents a central portion or body and three cornua. The various points of interest pertaining to the central cavity or body, can be best described by enumerat- ing its boundaries.