58 BONES OF THE FACE. (i.) The symphysis of the chin, which is a vertical ridge situ- ated in the median line. (2.) The mental process or the process of the chin, from which is given off an oblique line, called the external oblique line of the jaw, which becomes continuous with the anterior border of the ramus and which affords attach- ment to the depressor labii inferioris and the depressor anguli oris muscles. (3.) The incisive fossa, which is situated above the oblique line of the jaw, and which affords attachment to the levator menti muscle. (4.) The mental foramen, which lies externally to the incisive fossa and which transmits the mental vessels and nerve. (5.) A space above the oblique line, which affords attachment to the buccinator muscle, and one, below the oblique line, for the attachment of the platysma myoides. The interior or buccal surface, of the lower jaw is concave from side to side, and convex, from above downwards. It pre- sents the following points for special description : (1.) A median depression, corresponding to the symphysis an- teriorly. (2.) The superior and inferior pairs of genial tubercles, which are located upon either side of the median depression, and which afford attachment to the genio-hyo-glossus and the genio hyoid muscles. (3.) The mylo-hyoid-ridge, which corresponds to the oblique line on the outer surface of the bone. It affords at- tachment for the mylo-hyoid muscle. (4.) The sublingual fossa for the sublingual gland, which is situated on either side of the genial tubercles, near to the symphysis. (5.) A rough depression, which is situated below the mylo- hyoid ridge, for the attachment of the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. (6.) The submaxillary fossa, for the submaxillary gland, which is located at the external portion of the body of the bone, below the mylo-hyoid ridge. The superior border of the body of the bone, is thickest where the back teeth are inserted, and presents in the adult sixteen alve- oli, and in the child ten alveoli. The inferior border of the bone, is thickest anteriorly, where it is slightly everted.