THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 8l 5*is convex, from side to side, is slightly concave, from above downwards, has small foramina upon it for the transmission of blood-vessels (is concave, from side to side. The posterior surface.. k is fiat, from above downwards. (has one or more apertures for the venae basis vertebrarum, !is concave. is roughened for the intervertebral fibro-cartilage. is bordered, at its circumference, by a prominent rim of bone. )is concave. is roughened for the intervertebral fibro-cartilage. is bordered, at its circumference, by a prominent rim of bone. (2.) The Spinal Foramen. The spinal foramen may be rudely compared to a pentagonal arch, the base of which corresponds to the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra, the piers of which are the pedicles, and the vault of which is formed by the laminae. (3.) The Spinous Process. This projects backwards from the point of junction of the laminae. (4.) The Transverse Processes. These are two in number, one on each side. They project outwards from the sides of the arch. (5.) The Articular Processes. These are four in number, two on each side, and are called, from their position on the vertebra, the superior and the inferior. They are usually situated at the point of junction of the pedicles with the laminae, but they vary. The articular processes also vary as to the direction to- wards which their surfaces are directed. The superior ones usually look backwards and the inferior ones look forwards. (6.) The Pedicles. The pedicles project backwards and slightly outwards from the point of junction between the anterior and posterior surfaces of the body. They are scooped out, on their upper and lower borders, so as to form the notches, which are generally deeper upon the lower than upon the upper border. These notches contribute to the formation of the intervertebral foramina. (7.) The Notches. These notches, when the vertebrae are superimposed upon each other, form the so-called intervertebral foramina, through which the spinal nerves escape, and vessels enter.