29 ETHMOID BONE. 5th. It affords a protective bony covering for the ethmoidal cells and at the same time it constitutes a large part of the inner walls of the two orbital cavities. This orbital portion of the bone is termed the “ os planum.” The ethmoid bone may be divided, for the convenience of description into the following three portions: (A.) The horizontal or cribriform plate. (B.) The perpendicular plate. (C.) The two lateral masses. Horizontal or Cribriform Plate. This portion of the ethmoid bone is received into the eth- moidal notch of the frontal bone. It forms the roof of the nose and a portion of the floor of the anterior fossa of the skull. It presents the following points of interest: (1.) The Crista galli process. This elevation of bone, so-called from its fancied resemblance to the comb of a cock, affords attachment to the anterior ex- tremity of the falx cerebri, and it also articulates with the frontal bone, thus completing the foramen coecum. (2.) Three rows of minute foramina; situated upon either side of the crista galli process. These foramina transmit the olfactory nerves. (3.) A fissure for the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. This fissure is situated in the front portion of the cribriform plate. Perpendicular Plate. This portion of the ethmoid bone descends from the under sur- face of the cribriform plate and assists in forming the nasal septum. It is more or less inclined towards one side, in the large major- ity of subjects, and it presents numerous grooves for the protec- tion of the filaments of the olfactory nerves. The perpendicular plate of the ethmoid is of an irregular pen- tagonal form and has five borders, viz: an upper, an antero-supe- rior, an antero-inferior, a postero-superior, and a postero-inferior. The upper border is continuous with the crista galli. The antero-superior border articulates with the nasal bone. The antero-inferior border joins the cartilage of the nose. The postero-superior border articulates with the sphenoid. The postero-inferior border articulates with the vomer. Lateral Masses. These portions of the ethmoid bone are cuboid in their gen- eral form and enclose a large number of irregularly shaped cavities