367 SUPERIOR CAROTID TRIANGLE. concealed from view by the edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which overlaps them. The external and internal carotids lie, side by side, on a line corresponding to the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, which corresponds to their point of origin ; the external carotid lying to the inner side. Above this line are seen, within this triangle, the first five branches of the external carotid, three of which (the superior thy- roid, lingual, and facial arteries) pass forwards towards the me- dian line of the neck ; one passes backwards (the occipital artery); while the remaining one (the ascending pharyngeal artery) runs upwards nearly parallel with, and to the inside of, the internal carotid artery. The veins, with the exception of one (internal jugular) corres- pond to and accompany the arteries of the same name, while the internal jugular vein runs in connection with the internal and common carotid arteries, lying to the outer side of each, and re- ceive the blood from the other five veins contained within this triangle. The nerves contained within this space are numerous, and of great surgical importance. Upon the sheath of the common carotid, lies the descendens noni nerve, not having yet reached the filaments of the communi- cans noni nerve. The hypoglossal nerve curves around the occipital artery and crosses in front of both the carotids. The sympathetic nerve lies behind the sheath of the common carotid; within this sheath, lies the pneumogastric nerve; and, on thz outer side of the larger vessels, the spinal accessory nerve runs for a short distance, before it pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle. The branches of the superficialis colli and facial nerves ramify underneath the platysma muscle and above the deep cervical fascia. On the inner side of the internal carotid artery, just below the hyoid bone, the superior laryngeal nerve may be perceived, on its way to the larynx; while, lower down and in the same relation to the artery, the external laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve can be detected. The upper part of the larynx and the lower part of the pharynx, which lies behind the former, are also perceived on the inner wall of this space. The SUBMAXILLARY TRIANGLE corresponds to that portion of the neck lying immediately below the lower jaw. It is covered by the integument, the superficial cervical fascia, the platysma muscle, and the deep cervical fascia.