234 MYOLOGY. The anterior jugular veins pass underneath the sferno-maitoid muscle, at its lower portion, while the external jugular vein crosses in front of it, at its upper portion, and lies parallel to its posterior border, in its course down the neck. The posterior external jugular vein lies between the splenius and the trapezius muscles. The longus colli muscles are in relation, posteriorly, on each side, with the jirst portiori of the subclavian artery, while the sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles lie in relation anteriorly with the same portion of that artery. THE MECHANISM OF THE ACT OF DEGLUTITION. The act of deglutition requires for its performances not only the cooperation of a large number of those muscles, included in the various groups in the region of the head and neck, but it requires, in addition, that these muscular contractions be performed in a direct order of succession and at a time when their action will directly and properly affect the bolus of food. The act of deglutition has therefore been divided, for con- venience of description, into three distinct stages, as follows: 1st period, comprising the passage of the bolus to the isth- mus of the fauces. 2nd “ comprising the passage of the bolus through the pharynx into the oesophagus. 3rd “ comprising the passage of the bolus through the oesophagus. In the first period, the muscles under the control of the will, viz.y those of the tongue, lower jaw and soft palate become im- portant factors. The mouth is first closed to assist the tongue in its action, since its attachments to the lower jaw impair its movements when the mouth is open. The tongue now becomes increased in width, save when the suction of liquids is performed, and the bolus is pressed by the tongue against the hard palate and slid backwards until it touches the soft palate. The tensor palati and the palato-glossus muscles now contract, and thus a partial resistance is made to further progress backwards of the bolus. In the second period the control of the bolus is lost. A series of rapid muscular contractions of a reflex type ensue, which drive the bolus through the fauces and pharynx till it reaches the oesophagus.