NEUROLOGY. 454 posterior continuation, like a tail, called the “ caudate nucleus" of the corpus striatum. The other part is the extra-ventricular portion. It is not visible from the lateral ventricle, but is im- bedded in the substance of the brain. In some planes of section it shows a tolerably regular lens-like figure, and is therefore called the Ulenticular nucleus.” According to this nomenclature, the optic thalamus is a separate and complete ganglion by itself; while the corpus striatum consists of two portions, namely, an intra-ventricular portion, or the caudate nucleus, and an extra- ventricular portion, or the lenticular nucleus. The name “ corpus striatum ” is often applied, however, to the intra-ventricular or caudate portion, while the other part is known simply as the “lenticular nucleus.” The corpus striatum, if taken as a whole, has the shape of a ring if viewed laterally, after a section has been made which completely exposes the lateral ventricle and its prolongations into the brain substance. This annular form is due to the tail-like projection from the body of the ganglion, which curves over the posterior extremity of the optic thalamus and then descends into the inferior cornu of the ventricle, following its curve as far as the anterior extremity of that cornu. It thus encircles the crus cerebri and the internal capsule, and it is sometimes called the surcingle of the corpus stri- atum from this peculiarity in its course. * That portion of white substance, running upward and outward, between the corpus striatum and the lenticular nucleus, is known as the “ internal capsule.” The corpus striatum differs from the optic thalamus in respect to the arrangement of its grey matter; since, in the former, the nerve fibres pass through its gray matter in distinct bundles, while, in the latter, the fibres are intermixed with the gray matter giving it a uniform color and appearance. The thalamus opticus (posterior cerebral ganglion) is of oval shape and rests upon the corresponding crus of the hemispheres. It is bounded, on the outer side, by the corpus striatum and the taenia semicircularis. The part which is seen in the lateral ven- tricle is called the anterior tubercle; while the part situated be- neath the fornix is called the posterior tubercle. Each of the thalami optici enters into the construction of both lateral ventri- cles and the third ventricle. Its gray matter is evenly distributed between the nerve fibres which pass through it, thus giving it a uniform color. The fornix is a longitudinal lamella of fibrous matter, situated