THE SUBMAXILLARY TRIANGLE. 369 region receive special names from their situation. As veins are extremely liable to vary in their situations, nothing can be posi- tively asserted as to their exact relations, save in the case of a few special veins, as the internal jugular vein for example. The OCCIPITAL TRIANGLE is the largest division of the pos- terior triangle of the neck. It is covered by the integument, the superficial fascia, the platysma muscle and the deep cervical fascia. Its contents may be thus enumerated: Within this surgical triangle these parts are thus arranged. The artery runs along the lower portion of the triangle, in a direction nearly horizontal, and the transverse cervical vein ac- companies it. The posterior external jugular vein, passes from above down- wards, between the splenius and the trapezius muscles, in a line nearly parallel with the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, till it opens into the external jugular vein, at about its centre. The spinal accessory nerve is directed obliquely across this space, after escaping from the sterno-mastoid muscle, which it pierces, till it reaches the trapezius muscle, to which some of its terminal filaments are distributed. The branches of the cervical plexus are very superficial in their situation and' ramify subcutaneously over the entire space. The SUBCLAVIAN TRIANGLE is much smaller than the preced- ing triangle and lies between the inferior border of the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle and the clavicle. Its dimensions admit of variations in size, being dependent upon, I. The height of the omo-hyoid muscle in the neck. 2. The extent of the at- tachment of the trapezius muscle. 3. The extent of the clavicu- lar portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and 4. The position of the arm, which, if raised, greatly diminishes the size of this space by altering the relative position of the clavicle to the omo-hyoid muscle, or if depressed, tends to increase its normal area. I Artery.. . -{ Transversalis colli. Veins | ( Transversalis colli vein. \ Posterior external jugular. Glands j A chain of lymphatics running from the mastoid \ process to the root of the neck.