159 TARSAL BONES. sesses two surfaces, viz., an anterior .and a posterior; two bor- ders a superior and an inferior; and two extremities—one broad, the other pointed and thick. The anterior surface is marked by three facets which articu- late with the three cuneiform bones. The posterior surface is concave to articulate with the head of the astragalus. On the internal and lower portion of the bone is a projection, termed the tubercle of the scaphoid, for the insertion of the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle. Externally is sometimes perceived a facet for articulation with the cuboid. The scaphoid bone articulates with four bones, viz., the astra- galus, and the three cuneiform bones. In rare instances, it artic- ulates with the cuboid. It affords attachment to only one muscle, viz., the tibialis pos- ticus muscle. CUBOID. This bone is so called from its form. It presents three artic- ular surfaces, viz., an anterior, a posterior and an internal; and three non-articular surfaces, viz., a superior, an inferior and an external. The superior non-articular surface helps to form the dorsum of the foot; the inferior is grooved for the peroneus longus muscle. The posterior articular surface joins the os-calcis ; the anterior articulates with the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, while the internal articulates with the external cuneiform bone. It will thus be perceived that the cuboid bone articulates, like most of the tarsal bones, with four bones, viz., the os calcis, the external cuneiform and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. The cuboid affords attachment to one muscle, viz., the flexor brevis pollicis. CUNEIFORM BONES. These three bones are all six-sided and wedged-shaped. They each present a dorsal surface, a plantar surface, a posterior surface, an anterior surface and two lateral surfaces. The posterior surfaces articulate with the scaphoid, the anterior surfaces articulate with the metatarsal bones, the lateral surfaces articulate with each other, and, in some cases, with other bones, viz, the metatarsal bones and the cuboid. The dorsal and plantar surfaces of each of the cuneiform bones have no special points of interest, save in the internal cuneiform