59<5 ORGAN OF HEARING. to the organ of Corti, in. the scala media of the cochlea, and to the mernbrana basilaris. The ARTERIES of the internal ear are derived chiefly from three sources, viz.: 1. The auditory artery (a branch of the basilar artery). 2. The stylo-mas.toid artery (a branch of the posterior auri- cular artery). 3. The petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery. MECHANISM OF HEARING. In the act of hearing, the vibrations, produced within the mem- brana tympani by the waves of sound, are transmitted to the mem- brane covering of the fenestra ovalis, by means of the chain of bones within the cavity of the tympanum, and, through secondary vibrations produced within this membrane, the impulse is trans- mitted to the fluids of the vestibule. According to some author- ities, the jarring of the otoliths against the filaments of the vestibular nerve affords, at this latter point, a perception of the intensity of the sound which is being appreciated by the ear. The vibrations now travel along the fluids of the scala vesti- buli of the cochlea and of the semicircular canals, thus passing in tw’o different directions. In the semicircular canals, according to some observers, the direction from which the sound springs is perceived, while the vibrations carried along the scala vestibuli are transmitted to the filaments of the auditory nerve in the organ of Corti and those connected with the mernbrana basilaris, thus affording the perception of the note and the quality of the sound perceived. After reaching the apex of the cochlea, the vi- brations are transmitted from the scala vestibuli downwards along the course of the scala tympani till they reach the mernbrana tympani secundaria, which covers the fenestra rotunda, where the vibrations are lost; being no longer transmitted, on account of the absence of any conducting medium. The free entrance of air to the cavity of the tympanum, or the middle ear, affords an equal density of air upon either side of the mernbrana tympani, and thus insures a vibration of that mem- brane in absolute unison with the vibrations of the sound which it is called upon to record. The function of the organ of Corti, of the mernbrana basilaris, or of the otoliths, cannot be stated with any positive degree of cer- tainty, since new discoveries are constantly being made ; although some theories of their function have been given above. The minute construction of the scala media and its contained organs can be found by reference to more exhaustive treatises.