SYNOPSIS OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE HEART, AND THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD. The Organs of Circulation are—ist. The Heart. 2d. Arteries, yi. Capillaries. \th. Veins. Tie Heari is a conical-shaped organ, situated in the thorax in such a manner that its base looks upwards, backwards, and to the right, while its apex looks downwards, forwards, and to the left. ; is a hollow organ. In its interior are four cavities, viz.: two Auricles and two Ventricles. The Auricles are situated at the base, and the Ventricles, especially the left, towards the apex of the cone These cavities are designated respectively the Right and Left Auricle, and the Right and Left Ventricle. The cavities of the right side have no direct communication with those on the left, being separated by a vertical partition called a “ Septum ; ” that portion which separates the Auricles being termed " Ser.-am Auriculanim.” while that which separateslhe Ventricles is called “ Septum Ventriculorum.” When the the term “Septum Cordis ” is employed in an absolute manner, the Septum of the Ventricles is invariably meant. Between the cavities of the same side there is a free communication by an opening, called the Auriculo-Ventricular, through which the blood passes. Cirri ties on the right side of the Septum, consisting of the Right Auricle and Right Ventricle, are frequently known by the name of the “ Pulmonic Heart,” and contain venous blood ; while that portion on 1 he left, containing the Left Auricle and Left Ventricle, is styled the “Systemic Heart,” and contains arterial blood. Into each Auricle there are five openings ; by four of these, the mouths of veins, the blood enters, and by one, the Auriculo-Ventricular, blood passes out into a Ventricle. Into each Ventricle there are two openings, viz.: the Auriculo-Ventricular and the Arterial. By the former the blood enters, by the latter it leaves the Ventricle. •A: each verting of a Ventricle is placed a valve, one of which, called the Auriculo-Ventricular, allows the blood to enter the cavity from the Auricle, but prevents it from passing back ; the other, named Arterial, allows the blood to leave the Ventricle, but prevents it from returning. It thus appears that there are four valves employed in the transmission of the blood through the Heart, viz.: one between the Right Auricle and Right Ventricle, called “ Tricuspid,” and another between the Left Auricle and Left Ventricle, named “ Mitral,” and sometimes “ Bicuspid.” The two other valves are situated in the Pulmonary Artery and the Aorta, and are known respectively as the “ Pul- monic ” and “ Aortic ” valves. —The contraction of the walls of the cavity is called its “ Systole," and the relaxation its “ Diastole.” When we speak of the “ Systole ” and “ Diastole ” of the Heart, we invariably refer to the condi- tion of the Ventricles. —The contraction and dilatation of cavities of the same generic name are synchronous and isochronous, while those of different generic names are alternate. Thus, the two Auricles are in a state of con- traction and dilatation at the same time, as is also the case with the Ventricles, but when the Auricles are contracting the Ventricles are dilating, and vice-versa. —On listening over the region of the Heart, two sounds are heard, known as the “ First ” and “ Second ” sounds. When the first sound is heard, the Ventricles are contracting and the Auricles are dilating, while during the second sound, the Auricles and the Ventricles are filling with blood. —During the first sound of the Heart, the Auriculo-Ventriculnr valves are shut and the Arterial valves are are open ; while,, during the second, the Auriculo-Ventricular valves are open, and the Arterial valves are closed. —When an abnormal sound proceeds from a valve that should be shut, it Shows that the blood is taking a retrograde direction, and is called Regurgitation ; when proceeding from a valve that should be open, it then is said to be “ Obstruction.” —With regard to the course of the blood through the Heart, il may be stated in general terms that,when the blood leaves an organ whose name begins with V, it enters one whose name begins with A, and vice-versa ; while in the tissues, when it leaves an organ beginning with A. it enters one beginning with C, and passes into one beginning with V, as shown by the following diagram : Cava Descending, Cava Ascending, Coronary Veins, and Foramina Thebesii.