457 THE MESO-CEPHALON. (1) The pons Varolii. (2) The crura cerebri. (3) The inferior peduncles of the cerebellum. (4) The superior peduncles of the cerebellum. (5) The valve of Vieussens. (6) The tubercula quadrigemina. (7) The pineal gland or conarium. The pons Varolii is the great transverse commissure which binds the hemispheres of the cerebellum to each other and to the medulla oblongata. It passes across the front of the medulla and lies on a plane between that of the superior and inferior peduncles of the cerebellum. Its lateral portions are often called the mid- dle peduncle of the cerebellum. The crura cerebri comprise the peduncular fibres of the cere- brum, in contra-distinction to the commissural fibres and the cor- ona radiata. They are three-quarters of an inch in length, and extend from the upper border of the pons Varolii to the corpora striata and the optic thalami. They are crossed by the optic tracts, and they form the posterior boundary of the inter-pedun- cular space. Each crus contains a central mass of grey matter called the locus niger. The fibres of each crus, which pass above this central mass, form a layer called the tegmentum, while those which pass below it form a bundle called the fasciculated portion. The valve of Vieussens is a thin lamina of white matter which forms the roof of the aqueduct of Sylvius. It presents a median ridge, called the frenulum. The tubercula quadrigemina (nates and testes) are situated above the valve of Vieussens and posterior to the third ventricle of the cerebrum. Bands of white matter, called brachia anteriora connect the two nates or anterior lobes with the optic thalami and the optic tracts ; while similar bands, called brachia posteriora con- nect the testes or posterior lobes with the same parts. The nates are larger and darker colored than the testes. The pineal gland or conarium is a small conical body of a red- dish-grey color situated between the nates. It has two processes on each side, called the superior and inferior peduncles of the pineal gland. The superior set run forwards over the inner surface of each optic thalamus and become united to the anterior crura of the fornix; while the inferior set descend vertically upon the inner surface of each optic thalamus. This gland has one or two small cavities which often communicate with the third ventricle of the cerebrum. The contents of these cavities is termed the acervulus cerebri.