ANGIOLOGY. 428 a surgical importance, as venesection is most often performed in this locality. The cephalic vein ascends the arm in a groove at the outer side of the biceps muscle, and ends in the axillary vein, between the coracoid process of the scapula and the clavicle. It has one pair of valves at its point of termination. The basilic vein ascends the arm in a groove at the inner side of the biceps muscle, and terminates in the axillary vein, with which it is continuous. The axillary vein corresponds, in its situation and length, with the artery of the same name. It lies upon the inner side of this vessel. The subclavian vein, which is the direct continuation of the axillary vein, also corresponds, in length and direction, with the artery of the same name. Its relations to the artery, however, are slightly different in the three portions of that vessel, but it lies, as a rule, in front of the artery and on a plane below it. It receives, in addition to the blood from the arm, the contents of the external, the internal, and the anterior jugular veins. VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The veins of the lower extremity consist of a superficial and a deep set. These two sets include the following veins: Superficial Veins. .(2) \ ^‘eroal or short saphenous. v ' l Internal or long saphenous. {Popliteal. Femoral. External iliac. The short saphenous vein extends from the outer side of the dorsum of the foot and opens into the popliteal vein. It has two valves, near to its point of termination. The long saphenous vein extends from the inner side of the dorsum of the foot and opens into the femoral vein, at a point about one and a half inches below Poupart’s ligament. This vein accompanies the long saphenous nerve, for the greater portion of its course, and contains from two to six valves, which are most abundant in the thigh. The popliteal vein lies superficial and external to the artery of the same name. It receives the blood from the short saphe- nous vein, and the venae comites of the arteries of the leg. The femoral vein lies posteriorly to the artery, in Hunter’s canal, but reaches the inner side of that vessel, in Scarpa’s space.