446 NEUROLOGY. THE THIRD VENTRICLE. This is a narrow median fissure comprised between the two optic thalami. Its floor is situated on a lower relative plane than that of the two lateral ventricles and is formed by the structures comprised in the inter-peduncular space at the base of the brain. It communicates with both the lateral and with the fourth ven- tricles. It is exposed by turning back the body of the fornix from the floor of the lateral ventricles, and by the subsequent re- moval of the velum interpositum, which forms the root of the ventricle. Third Ventricle (boundaries). In front Behind.. Sides ... Above... ( Crura of fornix. I Anterior transverse commissure, j Posterior transverse commissure. (Iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum. j The optic thalami. I Peduncles of the pineal gland, j Velum interpositum (pia mater). ( Under surface of the fornix. Below (5 points of interest).. - ’Lamina cinerea. Tuber cinereum. Infundibulum. Corpora albicantia. w Posterior perforated space. This ventricle is crossed by three bands or commissures, called respectively, the anterior, the middle or soft, and the posterior commissures. The anterior is composed of white nerve sub- stance, the middle of gray or vesicular substance, and the poste- rior of white nerve tissue. Between the crura of the fornix and the optic thalami, in the an- terior portion of the ventricle, are the foramina of Monroe, which transmit the vessels of the velum interpositum to form the cho- roid plexuses of the lateral ventricles. On the floor, in the foetus, the cavity of the pituitary body communicates with this ventricle by a canal through the infun- dibulum. This canal sometimes remains pervious. Posteriorly, this ventricle communicates with the fourth ven- tricle by a passage, beneath the posterior commissure, called the iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum. This ventricle of the brain may therefore possess four open- ings, as follows: Foramina of Monroe (2). Opening into the fourth ventricle. Opening of the infundibulum (in the foetus only).