57*5 ORGANS OF GENERA TION. The VESSELS comprise branches of the uterine and the ova- rian arteries, the accompanying veins, and the lymphatic vessels of the fundus and of the cervix. The NERVES are derived from the inferior hypogastric and the ovarian plexuses, and from the third and fourth sacral nerves. The APPENDAGES to the uterus comprise the following struct- ures : The Fallopian tubes The ovaries. The ligament of the ovary. The organ of Rosenmuller. The Fallopian tubes commence at the upper extremities of the cavity of the body of the uterus, where they each present a small opening, called the internal opening of the tube, and extend outwards, in the middle fold of the broad ligament of the uterus, to expand into a trumpet-shaped extremity, called the fimbriated extremity of the tube, since it is surrounded by a fringe-like series of processes, the fimbriae, which connect the outer extremity of the tube to the ovary. This tube is perforated by a canal which transmits the ovum, during the period of menstruation. The Fallopian tube is composed of three coats, the serous, the mus- cular, and the mucous coats. The serous coat is composed of a reflection of the peri- toneum. The muscular coat is formed by a continuation of the longi- tudinal and the circular fibres of the uterus. The mucous coat is lined with ciliated epithelium, and is con- tinuous, externally, with the peritoneum. The OVARIES are two oval bodies, which lie in the posterior fold of the broad ligament, below the external extremities of the Fallopian tubes. They are composed of a serous coat, a fibrous coat, called the tunica albuginea, and a stroma. The serous covering invests the entire structure, except at its anterior margin, where the hilum of the organ may be perceived. The tunica albuginea differs, in no way, from the fibrous coat of all those organs, where this covering is firm and dense. The stroma or the true substance of the ovary is principally composed of small sacs, called Graafian vesicles or ovisacs, in a condition of more or less perfect development. Each of these vesicles may vary, in point of size, from one- eightieth to one-sixth of an inch in diameter, according to its