BONES OF THE HEAD. 28 The process of ossification, between and in these separate pieces,takes place in the following order: The great wings and external pterygoid plates are first formed during the 2nd month of foetal life. Each internal pterygoid plate is then formed, and becomes united to the external plate at about 4J months of foetal life. The two centres for the development of the body of the bone are situated underneath the sella turcica. This portion of the bone ossifies after the middle of foetal life, and is detached from the greater processes of the bone even at the time of birth. The lesser wings are formed by a separate centre for each. They become united at about the 8th month of foetal life. Ossification begins in the sphenoidal turbinated bones at the end of the 3d year. At birth the sphenoid usually consists of the 5 following pieces: (1.) The body joined to the lesser wings. (2.) The 2 greater wings. (3.) The 2 pterygoid processes. The greater wings become united to the body during the first year, but the turbinated bones do not unite until the 10th or 12th year of age. THE ETHMOID BONE. This bone of the cranium is of a peculiarly light and spongy texture. It is cuboid in shape and projects downwards between the orbital plates of the frontal bone. It enters into the forma- tion of the orbital cavities and the nasal fossae. This bone serves five important functions in the structure of the skull and face. 1st. It affords attachment to a strong fold of dura mater, called the falx cerebri or greater falx, which separates the two lateral halves of the brain, and which, by the separation of its two laminae, furnishes two channels for blood, termed the superior and the inferior longitudinal sinuses of the skull. 2nd. It presents a number of small foramina for the trans- mission through its cribriform plate of the filaments of the olfac- tory nerves. 3rd. It forms a large part of the septum which separates the two nasal cavities from each other. 4th. It affords a large expanse of surface upon which the fila- ments of the olfactory nerves may be distributed. This portion of the bone comprises the so-called superior and middle turbinated bones.