123 THE SCAPULA. The posterior border is broad and thick, and affords attachment to the trapezius muscle, by a ridge of bone termed its upper lip, and, by a similar ridge termed its lower lip, the deltoid muscle takes its origin. The external border is concave in form and is lost, above, upon the acromion process, and below, upon the neck of the scapula. The ACROMION PROCESS, of the scapula projects over the glen- oid cavity of that bone, and forms the tip or prominence of the shoulder. It is flattened and somewhat triangular in shape and presents for examination two surfaces, two borders and an apex. The superior surface of this process is subcutaneous and roughened for the attachment of a few fibres of the deltoid and the trapezius muscles. The inferior surface, is concave, smooth, and lies in close re- lation to the capsule of the shoulder joint, a bursa being usually interposed. The outer border affords attachment to the deltoid muscles. The inner border affords attachment for the deltoid and trape- zius muscles, and also present an oval facet for the articulation of the outer extremity of the clavicle. The apex affords attachment for the coraco-acromial ligament. Borders. The borders of the scapula are three in number and are called respectively, the superior or cervical border, the external or axil- lary border, and the internal or vertebral border. To the latter border, the term base of the scapula is often applied. The superior border is short and very thin. It presents the supra-scapular notch, which is converted into a foramen by a transverse ligament, beneath which ligament the supra-scapular nerve passes. It affords attachment to the omo-hyoid muscle. The axillary border is very thick and affords attachment for the long head of the triceps and a part of the subscapularis muscle. The vertebral border is long, thin, and prominent opposite the root of the spinous process. It affords attachment, oy its ante- rior lip, to the serratus magnus muscle; by its posterior lip, to the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus muscles; and by the inter space between the two, to the levator anguli scapulae, the rhom- boideus minor and the aponeurosis of the rhomboideus major muscle.