ANGIOLOGY. 416 The popliteal artery bifurcates into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, at a point situated one inch below the level of the tubercle of the tibia; and the peroneal artery is given off two inches below the tubercle. If amputation be performed, there- fore, one inch below the level of the knee joint, only one large % artery will require a ligature ; if two inches below the knee, two large arteries will require a ligature, viz., the anterior and pos- terior tibials; if three inches below the knee, three large arteries will require a ligature, viz., the two tibials and the peroneal. Branches. The following table enumerates the seven branches of the popliteal artery, which are given off within the popliteal space. POPLITEAL ARTERY. (7 branches.) ' Superior external articular. Superior internal articular. Inferior external articular. „ Inferior internal articular. Azygos articular. Muscular branches.. j fXior'or sural. Cutaneous. The muscular branches are distributed, above, to the hamstring and vasti muscles ; and, below, to the gastrocmenius and plantaris muscles. The cutaneous branches supply the integument of the back part of the leg. The superior articular branches supply the femur, the knee- joint, and the vasti muscles. The azygos articular branches pierce the posterior ligament of the knee-joint and supply its internal structures. The inferior articular branches, which pass beneath the lat- eral ligament of the knee-joint upon either side, form an arterial anastomosis in front of the knee. ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. This artery arises at the bifurcation of the popliteal artery, at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and, passing between the two heads of the tibialis posticus muscle and through an opening in the interosseous membrane, extends down the front of the leg to the ankle-joint, where it becomes the dorsalis pedis artery. The anterior tibial nerve is, at first external, then anterior, and then external to this artery, in its course down the leg. This artery has two vence comites, which lie upon either side of it. The anterior tibial artery corresponds in its direction with the