BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 138 Lower Extremity. This portion of the radius is large, thick and quad- rilateral in form. It presents for consideration five surfaces, two of which are articular, viz., the lpwer and the inner, and a styloid process. The inferior surface is concave, triangular in shape, and is divided by a slight ridge, running from before backwards, into an outer, large, triangular portion for articulation with the scaphoid bone, and an inner, small portion which is quadrilateral and which articulates with the semilunar bone. The internal surface or sigmoid cavity of the radius is narrow, concave, and articulates with the head of the ulna. The anterior siirface is excavated and affords at- tachment to the pronator quadratus. Its lower margin is prominent and affords attachment to the anterior ligament of the wrist joint. The external surface is prolonged downwards into a bony prominence called the styloid process. This process is thick and conical in shape, and affords at- tachment, at its base, to the supinator longus, and, at its apex, to the radio-carpal or external lateral liga- ment of the wrist joint. On the outer surface of this process, is a shallow groove directed obliquely downwards and forwards and divided into two grooves by a slight bony ridge. The anterior groove transmits the tendons of the ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the posterior groove transmits the tendon of the extensor primi internodii pollicis, both of which muscles are enclosed in one synovial sheath. The posterior surf ace is convex and gives attachment, below, to the posterior ligament of the wrist joint. It presents, from without inwards, the following points of interest. 1. A broad and shallow groove which transmits the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and the extensor carpi radialis brevior muscles, both of which are enclosed in one synovial sheath. 2. A narrow and deep groove for the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 3. A broad and shallow groove for the extensor in-