I92 ARTHROLOGY OR SYNDESMOLOGY. The anterior crucial ligament of the knee-joint arises from the tibia, between the anterior extremities of both semi- lunar fibro-cartilages, and is inserted into the inner and back part of the outer condyle of the femur. The posterior crucial ligament of the knee-joint is directed nearly vertically from a point of the tibia, between the posterior extremities of both semilunar fibro-cartilages, , to the anterior and outer part of the inner condyle of the femur and to the front of the inter-condyloid notch. The two crucial ligaments prevent the sliding of the tibia upon the femur in a forward or backward direction. The synovial membrane of the knee-joint is the largest in the body. In its reflections, it forms the following parts which deserve attention. 1. A cul-de-sac, which extends upwards beneath the extensor muscles of the thigh for an inch or two above the articular surface of the femur. This cul-de-sac is supported, during the movements of the joint, by'the suberureus muscle, which is inserted into it. It is sometimes replaced by a bursa, which, however, usually communicates with the knee-joint. 2. On each side of the patella, it forms a pouch beneath the aponeuroses of the vasti muscles, which pouch invests the corresponding condyle of the femur. 3. At the lower border of the patella, it gives off a process' called the ligamentum mucosum which is attached, in front, to the inter-condyloid notch of the femur; and two other processes, called the ligamenta alaria, which pass obliquely from the sides of the liga- mentum mucosum and which fit into the space between the tibia, patella and femur. The ligamentum mucosum tends to support the synovial membrane of the joint, when both the flexor and extensor muscles are relaxed during the erect attitude, as when the body leans against some external object. 4. It invests the semilunar fibro-cartilages, except at their convex and attached margins, and also surrounds the crucial ligaments except at their posterior portion. 5. It extends beneath the capsular ligament under the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, and is prolong- ed, through an opening in the capsular ligament of the joint, beneath the tendon of the popliteus muscle.