93 THE THORAX. Important Anatomical Relations of Special Vertebrae. (t) The superior opening of the larynx. (2) The bifurcation of the common carotid artery. The 3rd Cervical Vertebra corresponds to (3) The point of origin of the external and internal carotid arteries. (4) The upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic system of nerves. (1) The lower end of the larynx. (2) The upper end of the trachea. The 5th Cervical Vertebra corresponds to (3) The lower end of the pharynx. (4) The origin of the oesophagus. (5) The middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic system of nerves. (1) The termination of the duodenum. (2) The commencement of the jejunum. (3) The lower border of the pancreas. (4) The upper root of the mesentery. (5) The origin of the superior mesen- teric artery. (6) The commencement of the thoracic The 2nd Lumbar Vertebra corresponds to duct. (7) The opening of the ductus com- munis choledochus. (8) The commencement of the vena portae. (9) The termination of the spinal cord. (10) The commencement of the cauda equina. (11) The crura of the diaphragm THE THORAX. The thorax is composed of 37 bones and 24 cartilages. Of these 37 bones 12 have already been considered as the dorsal ver- tebra, leaving the 24 ribs and the sternum to complete the unde- scribed bony portion of the thorax. THE RIBS. The ribs, twelve in number on each side, are osseous arches, extending from the vertebral column to the sternum. Their pos- terior four-fifths consists of bone and constitutes the rib, properly so called, while the anterior fifth is cartilaginous, and is called the costal cartilage. The term “ rib ” is used as a substantive ; when we have an adjective we are obliged to resort to the latin name. The ribs are named in numerical order, from above downwards, without regard to the character of the rib. In this respect the principle of the nomenclature of the ribs differs from that of the vertebral column. The ribs arise from either side of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae and unite, in front, with the exception of the last two ribs, with the sternum, either directly by its own car- tilage or indirectly through the intervention of the common cos- tal cartilages.