ARTHROLOGY OR SYNDESMOLOGY. 196 The synovial membrane of the ankle-joint invests the inner surfaces of the ligaments and sends a prolongation upwards be- tween the tibia and the fibula, for a short distance. The vessels of the ankle-joint are derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and from the terminal branches of the anterior peroneal arteries. The nerves of the ankle-joint are derived from the anterior tibial nerve. The movements of the ankle-joint consist of flexion and exten- sion and a slight amount of lateral motion when the foot is ex- tended. Articulations of the Tarsus. Articulations of the bones of the first row. The astragalus and the os calcis, form two arthrodial articu- lations and are joined by three ligaments, which are as follows : 1. The interosseous calcaneo-astragalcid ligament, which con- nects the two bones directly, and which forms the chief bond of union. It is one inch in breadth and is very thick and strong. 2. The external calcaneo-astragaloid ligament, which connects the two outer surfaces of the bones with each other. It lies in front of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. 3. The posterior calcaneo-astragaloid ligament, which connects the back part of the astragalus with the upper portion of the os calcis. It is a short, narrow band and is directed obliquely backwards and inwards. The synovial membranes of this joint are twro in number, one to each articulation. The anterior synovial membrane is continued between the astragalus and the scaphoid. Articulation of the bones of the second row. The scaphoid, the cuboid and the three cuneiform bones, are connected by arthrodial articulations, the ligaments of which may be divided into three sets as follows: 1. The dorsal set, which are numerous small bands somewhat irregular in their attachments, which pass from each bone to the neighboring bones. 2. The plantar set, which are less dense than the dorsal, and which are also irregularly attached. 3. An interosseous set, which are four in number and which connect the three cuneiform bones with the cuboid and with each other, and also the scaphoid and the cuboid bones. They are arranged as follows: