NEUROLOGY. 43$ cervical vertebra, at which point it becomes continuous with the spinal cord. The spinal cord extends from the plane of the upper border of the atlas to the lower part of the 1st, or the upper part of the 2nd lumbar vertebra,where it becomes divided into a bundle of nerves, called, from their resemblance to a horse’s tail, the cauda equina, and terminates in a slender filament, called the filum ter- minate or central ligament of the spinal cord. The nerves, which proceed from the cerebro-spinal axis, are 43 in number, and are symmetrically arranged upon either side of the body. They may be divided as follows: A. Cranial Nerves Twelve pairs f Cervical j Dorsal B. Spinal Nerves. (31 pairs.) { Lumbar I Sacral [ Coccygeal ... Total, 43 “ A cerebral or cranial nerve is one which arises from some portion of the cerebro-spinal axis, and which passes through one or more foramina of the cranium. They are named, in numerical order, from before backwards, in the order in which they escape from the base of the cranium. The term cerebro-spinal nerve, is applied to any nerve, which arises from any portion of the cerebro-spinal axis ; and is used in contra-distinction to the nerves derived from the sympathetic system of the body. Each of the nerve filaments of the cerebro-spinal system, ex- cepting in the substance of the brain and the spinal cord, is com- posed of the following parts : A sheath, called the neurilemma or epineurium. A central portion, called the axis cylinder, which is composed of grey nerve matter. An investing substance of a whitish color, called the “ white substance of Schwann,” which is situated between the neurilemma and the axis-cylinder. This substance is not always present. It is often called the medullary sheath, and also the endoneurium of the nerve. The small isolated spots, on cerebro-spinal nerves where the white substance of Schwann is wanting, are called nodes of Ran- vier. In the olfactory nerves, although belonging to the cerebro- spinal system, the white substance of Schwann is absent through- out their entire extent. 12 pairs. . 8 “ .12 5 “ ■ 5 “ 1 “