NEUROLOGY. 450 ternal surface, called the median longitudinal, the fissure of Sylvi- us, the fissure of Rolando, and the externalparieto-occipital fissure. These fissures separate the lobes of the hemispheres and are of value in describing the situation of certain special convolutions on the external surface of the cerebrum. The median longitudinal fissure separates the two hemispheres of the cerebrum. The fissure of Sylvius extends from the anterior perforated space, at the base of the brain, to about the middle point on the outer edge of the hemisphere. It then divides into a short anterior or ascending limb, and a long posterior or horizontal limb. It con- tains the central lobe or island of Reil. The triangular-shaped por- tion of brain comprised between these two limbs is called the “ operculum." The fissure of Rolando extends between the frontal and the parietal lobes, from the longitudinal fissure to the outer extremity of the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius. It is accompanied by two convolutions having a similar direction, one in front of it and one behind, which are called the “ anterior and posterior central convolutions." The external parieto-occipital fissure extends from the median longitudinal fissure, at a point midway between the origin of the fissure of Rolando and the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, on the external surface of the cerebrum, for a distance of about an inch. It may be often indistinctly defined. It marks the division between the parietal and occipital lobes. Inner Surface of the Cerebrum. If we open the great longitudinal fissure and look at the inner surface of the hemisphere, we see the general arched form of its convolutions. A little above the corpus callosum is an impor- tant longitudinal fissure—the fissura calloso-marginalis. It runs for some distance parallel with the upper border of the corpus callosum, and then turns upward, in an ascending branch, to the upper border of the hemisphere. In the occipital portion of this surface is the fissura parieto- occipitalis, directed obliquely downward and forward, and the fissura calcarina, nearly horizontal. These two fissures meet in front at an acute angle, and include between them a wedge-shaped lobule, the cuneus. In front of the cuneus is a quadrangular lobule, the prcecuneus, bounded behind by the fissura parieto-occipitalis, artd anteriorly