THE SKULL IN GENERAL. 62 C Inter-parietal or Sagittal. rIn the mesial I Occipito-sphenoidal or Basilar line of the-{ Spheno-ethmoidal. Skull (5) j Spheno-frontal. f Ethmo-frontal. At the Vertex, v j Fronto-parietal or Coronal (one on either side) of the Skull^' (Occipito-parietal or Lambdoidal (one on either side) Spheno-parietal (one on either side) Tempero-parietal j Squamo-parietal. (one on either side) ( Masto-parietal. Occipito-temporal (Occipito-petrQsal. (one on either side) | Occipito-mastoidal. Spheno-temporal (Spheno-petrosal. (one on either side) | Spheno-squamosal. The masto-parietal suture used formerly to be called the “ad- ditamentum sutura squamosa,” and the occipito-mastoid suture was termed the “ additamentum sutura lambdoidalis.” These two sutures, if taken together, constitute the mastoid suture. The inter-parietal suture in children, and occasionally in adults, is prolonged through the frontal bone to the nose under the name of the frontal suture. It thus appears that between the bones of the cranium the 17 sutures, as shown above, exist, but, by assigning special names to portions in which the constituent parts of the temporal bone enter, this number will be increased by six, making in all 23, and if the frontal suture be included the total number will be 24. THE DIFFERENCES IN THE FORM OF THE SKULL. The skull presents variations in form which are dependent either upon age, sex, or national characteristics. In the earlier stages of foetal life, the posterior part of the cranium is greatly in excess of the anterior portion ; but as de- velopment proceeds, the parietal region increases rapidly in its size, and subsequently the frontal region is greatly augmented. During the first years of childhood, the upper part of the skull develops more rapidly than its base. The proportion of the face to the entire bulk of the skull gradually increases from the date of birth, at which time it forms only one-eighth of the entire bulk, till adult life is attained, when the proportion reaches nearly one-half. The female skull is smoother, lighter, and generally of smaller size than that of the male, and other points of distinction exist. The face is smaller in proportion to the cranium, the muscular prominences are less marked, the frontal sinuses are smaller, the iaws are narrower, and the frontal and occipital regions are less Cranium. At the sides of the Skull' (4)- At the base of the Skull' (4)