404 ANGI0L0GY. The gastric branch supplies the lesser curvature of the stomach. It is often called coronaria ventriculi. The hepatic branch gives off three specially-named arterial trunks, viz., the pyloric, the gastro-duodenalis, and the cystic. The pyloric branch supplies the pyloric end of the stomach. The gastro-duodenalis branch of the hepatic, by dividing into two branches, whose names can be found by re- ferring to the table of the branches of the abdominal aorta, supplies the greater curvature of the stomach and a portion of the duodenum. The cystic branch of the hepatic supplies the gall bladder and the liver. The hepatic artery bears important relations, at the transverse fissure of the liver with the hepatic duct and the portal vein. It will be found described more in detail in the description of that organ. The splenic artery, by its four, branches whose names are given in the table of the branches of the aorta, supplies the pancreas and the splenic end and greater curvature of the stomach ; although its main distribution, as its name indicates, is to the spleen. The superior mesenteric artery arises from the front of the aorta behind the pancreas, between which and the duodenum, it passes to be distributed between the layers of the mesentery. Its five branches, mentioned in the table of the branches of the abdominal aorta, are distributed to the various portions of the mesentery and to the whole length of the small intestine, ex- cepting the upper part of the duodenum. It also supplies the caecum and the ascending and transverse portions of the colon. This artery assists in forming, by its colica dextra and colica media branches, the largest anastomosis in the human body. The suprarenal branch of the aorta is distributed to the supra- renal capsula. The renal branches of the aorta are two in number and are distributed to the kidneys, the ureter, and the suprarenal cap- sule. The spermatic branches of the aorta are the longest arteries in the body, and, after passing through the inguinal canal, are distributed to the testicle of either side, in the male; and, in the female, to the ovaries of either side, the round ligament, and the labia.