f I45 THE PHALANGES The metacarpal bone of the thumb affords attachment to three muscles, viz., the flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the first dorsal interosseous. The metacarpal bone of the index finger affords attachment to five muscles, viz., the extensor carpi radialis longior, the flexor carpi radialis, the first and second dorsal interossei and the first palmar interosseous muscle. The metacarpal bone of the middle finger affords attachment to four muscles, viz., the extensor carpi radialis brevior, the ad- ductor pollicis and the second and third dorsal interossei mus- cles. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger affords attachment to three muscles, viz., the third and fourth dorsal interossei and the second palmar interosseous muscle. The metacarpal bone of the little finger affords attachment to five muscles, viz., flexor carpi ulnaris, the extensor carpi ulnaris the opponens minimi digiti, the fourth dorsal and the third palmar interosseous muscles. Phalanges. The phalanges are the bones of the fingers. They are named from their arrangement in rows the first, second and third, from the metacarpal bone forwards, and are fourteen in number,— three to each finger, and two to the thumb. They are classed as long bones and are divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The shaft is compressed from before backwards, convex on its posterior surface, and, in front, is flat with raised edges. The metacarpal extremity of the first row of phalanges is a simple concave articular surface, but of the other two rows, it con- sists of a double concavity separated by a slight ridge. The digital extremities of the first and second rows of pha- langes present a pulley-like surface, which is concave in the middle and convex upon either side. The terminal extremity of the phalanx of each finger is broad, rough and expanded into a semi- lunar crest. Muscles Attached to the Phalanges. The deep flexor of the fingers in common is attached to the third phalanges, the superficial flexor of the fingers in common is inserted into the second phalanges, and the common extensor of the fingers is attached to the second and third phalanges. In the thumb, the first phalanx affords attachment to four muscles, viz., the adductor pollicis, the flexor brevis pollicis, the