ANGIOLOGY. 354 The occipital artery may be felt at the middle of a line diaivn from the occipital protuberance to the mastoid process of the tem- poral bone. This artery gives off four branches, as can be seen in the table of the branches of the external carotid artery, previously given. The arteria princeps cervicis, the large branch of the occipital artery, possesses surgical importance, since it affords a source of collateral circulation in case of ligature of the common carotid artery. The relation of the occipital artery to the hypoglossal nerve, which winds around it, has been explained as a possible effort on the part of nature to protect this nerve from tension during the protusion of the tongue; since it is forced to descend for some dis- tance before becoming looped around the vessel, and thus is afforded great latitude of motion and a proportionate ability to endure strain from the elasticity of the artery, which would be absent were this nerve wound around a bony prominence. POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY. This vessel is of small size and arises from the posterior aspect of the external carotid artery, in the vicinity of the apex of the styloid process of the temporal bone, or at a point about two inches from the point of bifurcation of the common carotid artery. It is crossed by the facial nerve, in front; and by the spinal accessory nerve, behind, at a point corresponding to the junction of the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process of the tem- poral bone. The stylo-mastoid branch of this artery bears a close relation to the facial nerve, at the stylo-mastoid foramen, where that nerve escapes. Theauricular branches are distributed to the back part of the cartilage of the ear. The muscular branches are distributed to the stylo-hyoid, the sterno-mastoid, and the digastric muscles. This artery supplies several branches to the parotid gland. The posterior auricular artery can be often felt at the apex of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. ASCENDING PHARANGEAL ARTERY. This artery arises from the posterior part of the external car- otid, at a point situated in about three quarters of an inch from the point of bifurcation of the common carotid artery. It as-