335 THE ARTERIES IN' GENERAL. sis; each of which is sufficient to carry on the entire circulation of the limb when required to do so. By this arrangement of vessels, in the upper extremity, a chain of anastomoses may be traced along the margins of the scapula and the inner edge of the arm, till the circulation of the forearm and palmar arches is reached. From the angle of the eye, the blood can thus flow succes- sively through arterial anastomoses along the nose, mouth, cheeks, neck, and, by means of the internal mammary and deep epigastric arteries, along the entire chest and abdomen, till it reaches the vessels of the lower extremity. A similar chain of anastomotic channels can be traced from the pharynx, along the oesophagus, stomach and intestines, till the rectum be reached. The vessels of the brain and spinal cord, in a similar way, can be communicated with, throughout the length of the spinal cord, by means of small vessels, which hold numerous anastomoses with the intervertebral, intercostal, lumbar and sacral arteries. The third axiom is that: C. Every artery anastomoses with itself, by means of its branches. ' As interesting examples of this, may be mentioned the branches of the external carotids, which anastomose in the neck ; and those of the internal carotids, which communicate in the brain. The branches of the coeliac axis around the stomach, the cor- onary arteries within the heart, and the ciliary arteries around the iris, also illustrate this rule. While the articular arteries, espe- cially those of the knee; the branches of the obturator artery, around the foramen of that name, and the anastomoses of the vessels supplying the sphincter muscles of the body, are further proofs how thoroughly nature has protected the tissues from any- thing tending to produce impaired arterial supply. It is due however to the general capillary circulation through- out the body, that nature so readily endures the privation of blood, dependent upon ligature of main trunks; since, by them, a so-called collateral circulation is rapidly accomplished, the cap- illaries undergoing a process of dilatation and thus greatly in- creasing their carrying capacity. There is one more general statement in reference to the ar- rangement of the arterial system to which attention should be directed previous to entering into regional anatomy, and that is the direction of the vessels in the various regions of the body.