449 FISSURES OF CEREBRUM. inner surface, flattened, and in contact with the opposite hemis- phere, the two inner surfaces forming the sides of the longitudinal fissure ; and an under surface or base, of more irregular form, which rests, in front, on the anterior and middle fossae at the base of the skull, and, behind, upon the tentorium cerebelli. Each hemisphere presents five principal lobes and four impor- tant fissures which mark the boundaries of each lobe. These may be enumerated as follows: The Principal Lobes of the Cerebrum. Each hemisphere has five principal lobes, which are called the anterior or frontal lobe, the parietal lobe, the posterior or occipital lobe, the central lobe or the island of Reil, and the middle or temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The frontal lobe comprises the anterior half of the hemisphere and is bounded, below, by the fissure of Sylvius, and, behind, by the fissure of Rolando. Its lower portion rests upon the or- bital plate of the frontal bone and it has been called by some authors the orbital lobe. The parietal lobe is situated behind the frontal lobe, on the convexity of the cerebrum. It extends downwards as far as the fissure of Sylvius. It is bounded, in front, by the fissure of Rolando, and, behind, by the parieto-occipital fissure. The occipital lobe is separated from the parietal lobe by the parieto-occipital fissure and rests upon the tentorium cerebelli. The temporo-sphenoidal lobe projects into the middle fossa of the skull and lies below the parietal and the oqcipital lobes. It is bounded in front by the fissure of Sylvius. The central lobe is also called the island of Reil and lies in the fissure of Sylvius. It is triangular in shape and is overlapped by the frontal and the temporo-sphenoidal lobes. It consists of six short and straight convolutions, called the gyri operti. Internally it corresponds with the outer surface of the lenticular nucleus, and it is that part of the cortex of the brain which is in the most immediate proximity to the ganglia within the substance of the cerebrum. Externally it is concealed from view, because that portion of the cerebral hemisphere included between the two branches of the Sylvian fissure projects downward from above, and overhangs it like a cover. For that reason this portion is named the “ operculum." The Principal Fissures of the Cerebrum. Each hemisphere of the cerebrum has four fissures on its ex-