ANGIOLOG Y. 366 Within this triangle the common carotid artery lies in its sheath ; in which are also enclosed the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve, the vein lying outside of the artery and the nerve between and behind the artery and the vein. In front of and upon this sheath are seen the filaments of the descendens and communicans noni nerves; while, in front also, the filaments of the superficialis colli nerve ramify between the deep cervical fascia and the platysma muscle, and the middle thyroid vein frequently crosses the artery. Behind the sheath are seen the inferior thyroid artery, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve; and the vertebral vein and artery lie upon the floor of the triangle between the scalenus anticus and the longus colli muscles, below the level of the 6th cervical ver- tebra. On the inner side of the sheath, the trachea, the lower portion of the larynx and the thyroid gland can be discerned. Within this triangle the common carotid is tied, if the seat of election be below the omo-hyoid muscle. The SUPERIOR CAROTID triangle is covered by the integu- ment, the superficial cervical fascia, the platysma muscle and the deep cervical fascia, and lies immediately above the preceding triangle and anterior to the sterno-mastoid muscle. It contains the following structures: o 8 Arteries.. 'Common carotid (bifurcaiion of). External carotid. Internal carotid. J Superior thyroid, j Lingual. Facial. Occipital. f Ascending pharyngeal. 6 Veins... Internal jugular. Superior thyroid. Lingual. Facial. Occipital. [ Pharyngeal. 8 Nerves.. 'Facial branches (cranial). Superficialis colli (branch of cervical plexus). Descendens noni (branch of the hypoglossal). Hypoglossal (cranial). Pneumogastric (cranial). Spinal accessory (cranial). Superior laryngeal (branch of pneumogastric). External laryngeal branch of superior laryngeal. 2 Organs.. Lower part of pharynx. Upper part of larynx. Within this triangle the three larger vessels of the neck, viz., the common, external, and internal carotid arteries, are somewhat