385 SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. Branches. The branches of the internal mammary artery are eight in number, as follows. Comes nervi phrenici. Anterior intercostal. (Superior phrenic). Pericardiac. Musculo-phrenic. Mediastinal. Perforating. Sternal. Superior epigastric. The superior phrenic branch accompanies the phrenic nerve in its course through the chest; and, like that nerve, is distributed to the diaphragm. The mediastinal branches supply the thymus glands and the connective tissue of the anterior mediastinum. The pericardic branches supply the upper portion of the peri- cardium. The sternal branches supply the triangularis sterni muscle, and both surfaces of the sternum. The anterior intercostal branches are two in number to each intercostal space. They supply the intercostal and pectoral mus- cles, and also the mammae and the integument. They anasto- mose with the posterior intercostal vessels, which are branches of the thoracic aorta. The musculo-phrenic branch is one of the terminal branches of the internal mammary. It penetrates the diaphragm at the 8th or 9th rib, and terminates at the last intercostal space. The superior epigastric artery is a terminal branch and a direct continuation of the internal mammary vessel. It becomes super- ficial upon the wall of the abdomen at the 7th costal cartilage, and lies behind the sheath of the rectus abdominis muscle. This artery anastomoses with the deep epigastric artery (a branch of the external iliac) and with its fellow of the opposite side. SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. This artery arises from the posterior part of the subclavian artery, near its lower border and close to the inner border of the scalenus anticus muscle. Its course is at first directed backwards. It gives off, early in its course, one important branch (the pro- funda cervicis) which anastomoses with the princeps cervicis ar- tery (a branch of the occipital) and thus establishes an important collateral circulation. The main artery bends downwards and backwards in front of the neck of the 1st rib and often of the 2d rib, and terminates either in the first or second intercostal space.