413 FEMORAL ARTERY. lies upon the inner side of the artery, but, lower down, upon the posterior aspect of the vessel; 3. The anterior crural and long saphenous nerves, which lie upon the outer side of the artery; and 4. The internal cutaneous nerve and branches of the genito- crural nerve which lie in front of the artery. The sartorius muscle is the main guide to the femoral artery, and can be made prominent underneath the integument by in- structing the patient to raise the leg. The direction of the femoral artery can be defined upon the surface of the body by drawing a line from the centre of Poupart’s ligament to the tubercle on the inner side of the femur near to the knee, to which the fibres of the adductor magnus muscle are attached. The femoral artery lies beneath this line for the upper two- thirds of its extent. Compression of the femoral artery high up in its course should be made immediately below Poupart’s ligament and in a direction upwards and backwards, so as to impinge the artery against the pubes. Compression of the femoral artery, may also be made near to the apex of Scarpa’s triangle, and the pressure should, in this case, be directed outwards so as to crowd the artery against the shaft of the femur. The incision for ligature of the femoral artery in scarpa’s tri- angle should commence about a hand’s breadth below Poupart’s ligament and should be continued in a line of the artery for about three inches. By this incision the profunda femoris is avoided and the artery is tied below its branches. Branches. The superficial epigastric branch passes through the saphenous opening and then upwards and inwards, in the superficial fascia of the abdomen. The superficial circumflex iliac branch pierces the fascia lata and is distributed to the crest of the ilium. The superficial externalpudic branch passes through the saphe- nous openingzxuS. crosses the spermatic cord or the round ligament to reach its point of distribution, in the integument of the abdo- men, scrotum, and labia. The PROFUNDA FEMORIS branch or deep femoral artery is by some authors described as a branch of bifurcation of the femoral artery. It arises from the outer and back part of the femoral artery, one or two inches below Poupart’s ligament; and nearly equals, in point of size, the superficial part of the femoral artery.