551 THE LUNG. The bronchial tubes have already been described, as sub- divisions of the main bronchus. The lobules of the lung are arranged upon the terminal extrem- ities of the smaller bronchial tubes, like leaves upon the twigs of a tree. Each lobule is, in its form and general appearance, a minature lung, which is pyramidal in its outline, and whose base is directed outwards. The average size of each lobule is about one-twelfth of an inch. It is usually divided, in its interior, into compartments, called air cells, whose diameters vary from one seventy-second to one two-hundredth of an inch. The interior of each lobule reveals not only the different com- partments, called the air cells, but also communicating passages between these air cells, which are continuations of the bronchial tubes, and which are called the intercellular passages of the lobule. These passages vary from four to nine in number to each lobule, and their walls are characterized by saccular dilatations. They differ in their construction from the bronchial tubes in that they possess no cartilage, muscular fibres, or glands, and in that the epithelium which invests their walls is of the squamous variety in place of the ciliated variety, which lines the bronchial tubes. The air cells, or alveoli, are small chambers which are con- tained within the lobules of the lung, and which are separated from each other by thin septa, named alveoli. The variations in their size has been already mentioned. Each air cell consists of the following component parts, in their order from within out- wards, which enter into the construction of the walls. 1. Pavement epithelium. 2. A basement membrane. 3. Six plexuses ' Pulmonary arteries. Pulmonary veins. Bronchial arteries. Bronchial veins. Nervous plexus. „ Lymphatic vessels 4. Elastic tissue of the lungs. These four layers may be compared, in order to assist mem- ory, to the construction of the ordinary partitions between the rooms of a dwelling, where the paper represents the epithelial covering ;,the plaster, the basement membrane ; the laths, the six plexuses; and the brickwork behind all, the elastic tissue of the lobule. The pulmonary vessels comprise the branches of the pulmonary artery, which carries blood from the right ventricle, and the pul-