ORGAN OF //FARING. 586 The mtegument of this canal is thin and closely adherent to the cartilaginous portion. It contains hair follicles and sebaceous glands, near its external opening, and numerous ceruminous glands throughout its entire length. Middle ear or tympanum. The cavity of the middle ear is situated between the external auditory canal and the labyrinth of the ear, from side to side ; be- tween the carotid canal and the mastoid cells, from before back- wards ; and between the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the jugular fossa, from above down- wards. It presents for examination the following parts: An outer wall. An inner wall. A posterior wall. An anterior wall. A floor. A roof. The OUTER WALL is formed by the membrana tympani, and by the small portion of bone surrounding it. It presents two open- ings for the chorda tympani nerve, called the iter chorda posterius and the iter chorda anterius or the canal of Huguier, and a fissure called the fissure of Glaser. Through this latter opening, pro- trudes the long process of the malleus, and, through it, enters also the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and, according to some authorities, the tendon of the laxator tympani muscle, while by others the existence of such a muscle is denied. The INNER WALL presents the following points of interest, to which special names have been applied: 1. The promontory^ which is a large rounded eminence formed by the first turn of the cochlea. Its surface is grooved for the filaments of Jacobson’s nerve. 2. The fenestra ovalis, which is an opening into the vesti- bule, and which is closed by the stapes and its annular ligament. 3. The fenestra rotunda, which is an opening into the scala tympani, and which is closed by the internal membrane of the tympanum (membrana tympani secondarial) 4. The pyramid, which is the enclosing cavity of the sta- pedius muscle, and, at the apex of which, the orifice, through which the tendon of that muscle escapes, may be perceived.