ANGIOLOGY. 39<5 level of the superficial palmar arch, and in making incisions in the palm of the hand for pus, it is well to remember that the superficial palmar arch lies at about the junction of the inferior and middle thirds of the palm ; and that the middle line of the individual fingers is the line of safety, below the level of the arch, since the digital arteries run in the spaces between the metacar- pal bones. Relations. The relations of this artery within the forearm are principally muscular, except in the middle third of the artery, where the radial nerve lies in close relation with the outer side of the vessel. The radial artery is frequently ligated in cases of wounds either of its trunk or of some of its branches or in case of aneur- ism. If the artery should be tied in its middle third the radial nerve and the veins which accompany the artery must be avoided. Branches. The radial artery gives off twelve distinct branches; four of which are given off in the forearm ; four at the back of the wrist, and four in the palm of the hand. The following table gives the names and location of these various branches. A Table of the Branches of the Radial Artery. ' In the forearm. (4) Radial recurrent. Muscular branches. Anterior carpal. Superficialis volae. Radial Artery. h (12 branches.) f Posterior carpal. \ 3rd dorsal interosseous. I r (4th dorsal interosseous. At back of wrist (4) -{ Metacarpal—or 2nd dorsal interosseus. I Dorsalis pollicis. j Correspond to a 1st dor- ^ Dorsalis indicis. ( sal interosseous. f Princeps pollicis. j Correspond to a 1st pal- In the palm of J Radialis indicis. ( mar interosseous, the hand... (4)1 Perforating—(3 in number). — f Deep palmar interossei—(3 or 4 in number). Total, 12 The recurrent branch of the radial anastomoses with the supe- rior profunda and the interosseous recurrent arteries. The muscular branches of the radial artery are distributed to the muscles on either side of it. The anterior carpal branch passes beneath the deep flexor tendons, and, with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery, forms an anastomosis, which gives off branches to the articulations of the carpus.