ANGIOLOGY. 382 medulla oblongata, it is located between the hypo-glossal nerve and the anterior branch of the suboccipital nerve. Branches. The branches of the vertebral artery are six in number and may be divided into two sets, viz., those given off within the neck and those given off within the cranium. The branches comprised in each set will be found enumerated in the table of the branches of distribution of the subclavian artery on page 380. The lateral spinal branches enter the cavity of the spinal axis through the intervertebral foramina. The muscular branches, which are given off in the vicinity of the atlas, supply the deep seated muscles of the cervical region. The posterior spinal branch arises from the vertebral artery after its entrance to the cranium. It anastomoses, through the intervertebral foramina with small cervical and dorsal vessels. The anterior spinal branch unites, at the border of the fora- men magnum, with the artery of the opposite side to form a com- mon trunk. The posterior meningeal artery ramifies between the dura mater and the bone, in the posterior fossa of the skull. The inferior cerebellar artery is the largest branch of the vertebral and arises from that vessel near the pons varolii. It passes between the hypo-glossal and thepneumogastric nerves. This artery supplies blood to the choroid plexus within the substance of the brain. BASILAR ARTERY. This vessel is formed by the union of the two vertebral arte- ries and is so-called, since it lies upon the basilar process of the occipital bone. It extends from the posterior to the anterior border of the pons varolii. Branches. This artery bifurcates into the two posterior cerebral arteries and, in its course, gives off the anterior cerebellar, the posterior cerebellar, and transverse branches. One of the transverse branches accompanies the auditory nerve within the auditory canal, and is called the auditory artery. Another of the transverse branches, which is of large size, receives the name of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery. The superior cerebellar branch and the posterior cerebral artery are separated, at their point of origin, by the third cranial nerve.