562 URINARY ORGANS. The lateral false ligaments connect it with the sides of the pelvis. The superior false ligament is a reflection of peritoneum, over the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric arteries, to the region of the umbilicus. The COATS of the bladder are four in number, and are called, from without inwards, as follows: The serous coat. The muscular coat. The cellular coat. The mucous coat. The serous coat is formed by the peritoneum, and is deficient in certain portions of the organ. It is most marked upon the posterior surface, the sides, and the posterior portion of the base of the bladder. The muscular coat consists of three distinct sets of fibres dis- tributed over the entire organ, and two additional sets connected with the ureters. The former group are named, respectively, the external longitudinal fibres, the intermediate circular fibres, and the internal longitudinal or sub-mucous fibres. The two sets of fibres connected with the ureters comprise a transverse set, which connect the orifices of the tubes ; and the muscles of the ureters proper, which connect each tube with the middle lobe of the prostate gland. The cellular coat of the bladder is situated between the mus- cular and the mucous coats of that organ, and is most closely attached to the mucous coat. The mucous coat of the bladder is of a light color, and is loosely connected to the muscular coat, except at two specially designated localities within that organ, called the trigonum vesicas and the uvula vesicce. In cases where the muscular coat of the bladder has undergone changes, either of hypertrophy or of separation of its fibres, the mucous lining of the organ is thrown either into proportionate ridges or depressions, thus forming the so-called fasciculated bladder, and the sacculated bladder. The trigonum vesicce is a triangular space at the base of the interior of the bladder, which is distinguished by its pale color and the close intimacy which exists between its mucous and muscular coats. It is bounded as follows : In front, by the urethral opening. Behirld, by the orifices of the ureters. Laterally, by two folds of mucous membrane. This space corresponds to that portion of the bladder, which