SKELETON OF THE TRUNK. 9o The 7TH CERVICAL or VERTEBRA PROMINENS differs in its process of development from the other vertebras, in that the ante- rior root of its transverse process is developed as a separate piece from the rest of the bone, thus requiring one additional centre of ossification. In rare instances, this portion continues to develope separately, and becoming lengthened, constitutes the so-called “ cervical rib.” The LUMBAR VERTEBRAE have two additionl centres of ossifica- tion (besides those peculiar to the vertebrae in general) for the tu- bercles which project from the back part of the superior articular surfaces. In rare cases, the transverse process of the lumbar ver- tebra may develope as a distinct and separate piece unconnected with the body, thus constituting the so-called “ lumbar rib.” VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE. The spinal column as a whole (including the sacrum and the coccyx), when viewed in front, resembles two pyramids united by their respective bases at a point which corresponds with the junction of the sacrum with the last lumbra vertebra. The upper pyramid when viewed more closely may be again compared to the union of three smaller pyramids, the first having its apex directed upwards and including the six lower cervical vertebrce, the second including the first four dorsal vertebrce and diminishing in size from above downwards, while the third extends from the fourth dorsal vertebra to the sacrum and presents a uniform increase in size as you approach the pelvis. If viewed laterally, the spinal column presents several curves which correspond with certain anatomical regions of the body and which are named the cervical, dorsal, lumbar and pelvic curves of the spine. These curves have their exact boundaries, as follows: The cervical curve (convex an- teriorly.) The dorsal curve (concave ante- riorly.) The lumbar curve (convex an- teriorly.) Thepelvic curve (concave ante- riorly.) It will thus be seen that the spinal column as a whole, if viewed laterally, resembles somewhat in its shape the letter S. These curves are produced partly by the shape of the bodies of Origin. From the apex of the odontoid process of the axis. Termination. At the middle of 2d dorsal vertebra. Origin. From the middle of the 2d dorsal vertebra. Termination. At the middle of the 12th dorsal ver- tebra. ( Origin. From the middle of the 12th dorsal vertebra. ( Termination. At the sacro-vertebral angle. Origin. From the sacro-vertebral angle. Termination. At the tip of the coccyx.