THE MALE URETHRA. 565 those which emerge from the root, empty into the prostatic plexus of veins and the pudic vein. The venous plexuses of the erectile tissue of the penis are de- veloped to a remarkable degree and are extremely intricate. THE URETHRAL CANAL. The urethral canal of the two sexes differs to so great a degree, that the female urethra will be considered in the description of the female genitals, and the urethra of the male sex alone will be here considered. The male urethra is about eight and a half inches in length, and is usually divided into three portions, called from their situa- tion, the prostatic, the membranous, and the spongy portion. The urethra is also often divided into two portions, called the fixed portion, which lies beneath and behind the pubic arch, and the pendulous portion, which is included within the spongy por- tion of the penis. The curve of these two portions differs; the former presenting a concavity which looks upwards, and the latter a concavity which looks downwards. The former division of the urethra, however, best affords a clear idea of the situation, the function, and the surgical import- ance of the parts contained. The PROSTATIC PORTION comprises that part of the urethral canal which pierces the prostate gland. It is spindle-shaped, is the most dilatable and the widest portion of the urethral canal, and measures about one inch and a quarter in length. Upon its floor, may be perceived the following points of special interest: The verumontanum or caput gallinaginis. The prostatic sinus. The sinus pocularis or uterus masculinus. The orifices of the seminal ducts. The orifices of the pro static ducts. The first point of interest, above mentioned, is so-called from its form and from a fancied resemblance to the comb of a rooster. It is often also called the “ urethral crest.” It consists of a lon- gitudinal ridge, three quarters of an inch in length, and is, by some, supposed to be the chief seat of sensation during sexual intercourse. The prostatic sinuses are situated upon either side of the veru- montanum, and, into them, open the ducts of the prostate gland. The sinus pocularis is a small cul-de-sac, which extends into