ANGIOLOGY. 386 Opposite the neck of the 1st rib, the first dorsal ganglio?i of the sympathetic system lies upon the inner side of this vessel. This vessel sends branches I. To the first or second intercos- tal spaces (intercostal branches). 2. To the posterior spinal mus- cles, 3. To the spinal cord and its membranes. The profunda cervicis branch runs upwards in the neck, be- tween the complexus and the semispinalis colli muscles, as high as the axis, where it anastomoses with the arteria princeps cervi- cis and with branches of the vertebral artery. It supplies the muscles in the neighborhood of its course. THE AXILLARY ARTERY. The axillary artery is a direct continuation of the subclavian artery and intervenes between that artery, above, and the brachial artery, below. It commences at the lower border of the first rib and terminates at the lower border of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles, which mark, posteriorly, the inferior limit of the axilla. In its course, this artery passes through the axillary space ; and its direction varies with the relative position of the arm to the trunk. When the arm hangs freely by the side, the artery describes a curve whose concavity looks downwards and inwards towards the chest; while, when the arm is extended at a right angle to the body, this vessel is nearly straight, and, if the limb be eleva- vated to a perpendicular position, the artery is rendered concave with its concavity looking upward. This artery is deeply seated during the upper portion of its course, but becomes superficial near its point of termination, and most markedly so when the arm is raised. At the lower portion of the axillary space, therefore, pressure can be readily applied to the artery and its circulation easily controlled. This pressure should however always be directed outwards, since the humerus alone affords a resistance sufficient to ensure compression of the vessel. This vessel is usually described as consisting of three distinct portions, which, like the subdivisions of the subclavian artery, depend upon the relation of the vessel to a muscle, viz., the pec- poralis minor muscle. The first portion of the artery lies above this muscle ; the second portion lies beneath it; and the third portion lies below it. These three portions differ in their relations, and in their sur- gical importance. They will therefore be considered separately.