535 CONTENTS OF EACH REGION. its vessels. This pulpy mass is perceived, by the microscope, to consist of the following elements ; 1st. Malpighian corpuscles. 2d. Colored elements. 3d. Colorless elements. The Malpighia?i corpuscles are whitish bodies, which vary from one twenty-fifth to one-sixtieth of an inch in size, and are devel- oped principally upon the arteries. The larger ones are percep- tible to the naked eye. The colored elements are composed of free blood corpuscles, pig- ment granules, and crystalline bodies whose composition resembles haematin. The colorless elements consist of cells, with and without nuclei, free nuclei, and finely granulated matter of an albuminous char- acter. The VESSELS of the spleen comprise the splenic artery and its branches, the splenic vein, and the lymphatics of that organ. The splenic artery is very tortuous and of large size. It divides, at the hilum of the spleen, into five or six branches which supply the various portions of the organ. Some of its branches open into spaces in the substance of the spleen, called lacunce, while others open directly into veins. The splenic vein carries the blood from the spleen, and assists in forming the portal vein. The lymphatics of the spleen open into the thoracic duct. The nerves are derived from the solar plexus, the semi-lunar ganglia, and the right pneumogastric nerve. REGIONS OF THE ABDOMEN. The abdomen is usually described as consisting of three zones and nine distinct regions. The three zones of the abdomen are represented by describing two horizontal lines across the anterior surface of the abdomen, which shall respectively join the highest points of the crests of the two ilia with each other, and the two cartilages of the ninth pair of ribs. The two lines, which subdivide these three zones, and thus form nine spaces or regions, descend, upon either side, from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the middle of Poupart's ligament. The spaces or regions, situated at the sides of the trunk, are named as follows, from above downwards. The two hypochondriac regions. The two lumbar regions. The two iliac regions.