563 ORGANS OF GENERA TION. The dartos is the contractile layer of the scrotum, and forms a septum between the two testicles, called the “ septum scroti.” The external spermatic fascia is derived from the margins of the external abdominal ring during the descent of the testicle. The cremasteric layer consists of a thin covering of the fibres of the cremaster muscle, gathered by the testicle during its descent. The fascia propria is a covering of the testicle, which cor- responds to that process of the transversalis fascia, which ac- companies the testicle in its descent through the inguinal canal. , The tunica vaginalis is derived from the peritoneum, and, like other serous membranes of the body, consists of a visceral and a parietal layer. It cbmmunicates, soon after the descent of the testicle, with the cavity of the peritoneum, but afterwards closes and becomes a shut sac. The EPIDIDYMIS is an appendix to the testicle, which lies on the posterior border, and the back part of the outer surface of that organ. Its upper extremity or head is attached to the testicle, and gives passage to its efferent ducts. Its central portion, called its body, is attached to the posterior border of the testicle by the tunica vaginalis. • Its lower extremity is pointed, and is attached to the testicle by a dense band of fibrous tissue. The testicle has, in addition to its serous layer, which has been already mentioned, a fibrous and a vascular layer. The fibrous layer is called the tunica albuginea, and lies under- neath the serous covering of the organ. It is reflected, at the posterior and upper border of the organ, into the interior of the testicle, where it assists in supporting the vessels, nerves, and excretory ducts of the organ, and also, by forming trabecula, it divides the testicle into compartments, which contain the sub- stance of the gland. The vertical septum, which is formed in the interior of the gland by the tunica albuginea, is called the me- diastinum testis or the corpus Highmomanum. The vascular covering is called the tunica vasculosa. The ves- sels, contained within this covering, penetrate into the substance of the gland and supply it with blood. The glandular structure is composed of lobules, each of which may be shown to consist of a few small tubules, called tubuli scminiferi. The length and size of these tubes has been vari- ously estimated, and an equal diversity exists as regards their number.