ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 528 The posterior border is in relation with the aorta, the inferior vena cava, and the diaphragm; to the latter of which it is attached. The liver is covered with peritoneum, with the exception of a small portion, situated at its posterior border, where the peri- toneum is absent. The liver has five lobes, five ligaments, five fissures, and five vessels, as follows. Ligaments. Suspensory or broad. Right lateral. Left lateral. Coronary. Round. Vessels. Hepatic artery. Portal vein. Hepatic veins. Hepatic duct. Lymphatic vessels. Lobes. Right lobe. Left lobe. Lobulus quadratus. Lobulus Spigelii. Lobulus caudatus. Fissures. Longitudinal. Fissure for vena cava. Transverse. Fissure for gall bladder. Fissure for ductus venosus. Ligaments. The longitudinal ligament (broad, falciform, or suspensory- ligament) receives its various names from its direction, its width, its shape, and its function. Its base, or broadest portion is at- tached to the posterior surface of the sheath of the rectus muscle of the right side, as low down as the umbilicus, and to the under surface of the diaphragm. It hepatic margin extends from the anterior border of the liver to its posterior border, and is con- tained in the groove, on the upper surface, between the right and the left lobe. This ligament consists of two layers of peritoneum ; and the anterior portion of its free edge contains, between its two layers, the round ligament of the liver. The two lateral ligaments are triangular in shape, and are com- posed of two layers of peritoneum. They serve to connect the extremities of the posterior border of the liver to the diaphragm. The coronary ligament also connects the posterior border of the liver to the diaphragm and is composed of two layers of peri- toneum ; but it differs from the lateral ligaments of the liver in that it is connected with the middle portion of the posterior border, while the lateral ligaments are attached at either extremity of that border. The coronary ligament is divided into two parts, by a deep notch or canal, in which is lodged the inferior vena cava, and at which point the hepatic veins of the liver commmunicate with that vessel.