595 THE LABYRINTH. The Membranous Labyrinth. The membranous labyrinth is a closed sac which is contained within the osseous labyrinth. It is prolonged into the semi-cir- cular canals, and lines the vestibule, and, according to some authorities, the canalis cochleae of Reissner. The portion contained within the vestibule consists of two sacs, called the saccule and the utricle, which do not communicate with each other, except indirectly through the aquaeductus vesti- buli. The saccule is afforded a free communication with the prolon- gation of the membranous labyrinth into the scala media, through a small canal called the canalis reuniens, and lies in relation with the fovea hemispherica. The utricle opens into the prolongations of the membranous labyrinth within the semicircular canals, and lies within the de- pression of the fovea semielliptica. The membranous semicircular canals are only one-third of the size of the osseous canals, except at the ampulla, where they nearly fill the entire space. They open into the utricle by five open- ings, since one opening is common to two canals. The membranous labyrinth, as a whole, is filled with a fluid, called the endolymph, and is separated from the osseous labyrinth by an external fluid, called the perilymph. Upon its membranous structure, which lies between these two fluids, ramify the minute filaments of the vestibular nerve. Small bodies, called otoliths, are found upon that portion of the membrane, which invests the saccule and utricle, in close re- lation to the point of distribution of the nerves. These bodies are supposed by some to afford, by jarring against the nerve fila- ments, appreciation of the intensity of sound. The NERVES of the internal ear are derived from the auditory nerve, wfii'ch, at the bottom of the internal auditory canal, divides into two branches called the vestibular and the cochlear nerves. The vestibular nerve divides into three branches, which pass through small openings at the bottom of the internal auditory canal and are distributed to the ampullae, the utricle, and the sac- cule. In the two latter situations, these nerve filaments bear a close relation to the masses of calcareous material, previously de- scribed as the otoliths. The cochlear nerve divides into numerous small filaments, which enter openings in the base of the modiolus, and, after passing into its central canal, escape from the small canals which are di- rected outwards towards the lamina spiralis, and are distributed