13 GENERAL OSTEOLOGY. Composition of Bone. With the exception of the teeth, bone is the hardest structure of the human body, and is composed of two distinct elements, viz., the Organic or Animal constituents, and the Inorganic or Mineral constituents. The organic elements of bone may be most clearly demonstrated by subjecting a bone to the prolonged action of a diluted solution of nitric or muriatic acid, when the mineral ingredients will be found to have been dissolved, and the bone, although still retaining its original bulk and form, will pre- sent a degree of flexibility, which will admit of its being tied into a knot without danger of fracture. On the other hand, if a bone be subjected to extreme heat the animal ingredients will be consumed and the bone will then be found to be extremely brittle and to be greatly decreased in its weight. The organic constituents of bone form about one-third of the entire bone, and the inorganic constituents the remaining two- thirds. The various substances, revealed by a chemica'l analysis of the organic and inorganic constituents found in bone, are shown in the following table: Organic matter, Gelatin and bloodvessels and fat 33.30 ’Phosphate of lime 51.04 Carbonate of lime 11.30 Inorganic or earthy matter Fluoride of calcium 2.00 Phosphate of magnesia 1.16 ,Soda and Chloride of Sodium.. 1.20 100.00 The relative proportions between the organic and the inor- ganic elements of bone differ in the various portions of the skele- ton, and also at different periods in life. Thus the bones of the head and the long bones in the ex- tremities contain more earthy matter than the bones of the trunk. The bones of the upper extremity also contain more than the corresponding bones of the lower extremity. The humerus contains a greater proportion of inorganiq matter than the radius or the ulna, and the femur more than the tibia and the fibula. The metacarpal and metatarsal bones are only slightly richer in earthy matter than the bones of the trunk. As age advances, the mineral elements of bone tend to in- crease. This is most especially marked in the long bones of the extremities and in the bones of the head; both of which localities in foetal life seem to be deficient in earthy salts as com-