103 THE THORAX IN GENERAL. (14) The pneumogastric nerves. (15) The phrenic nerves. (16) The splanchnic nerves. (17) Lymphatic vessels and glands. These parts will be found described under the respective heads to which they properly belong. The thorax of the female differs from that of the male in the following respects: 1. It has a smaller general capacity than the male thorax. 2. The sternum is shorter. 3. The superior opening is larger in proportion to the lower. 4. The upper ribs are more movable. This latter peculiarity is explained as a device of nature to af- ford easy respiration during the period of pregnancy. In fleshy persons, it is often difficult to count the ribs, and, as it is often necessary to definitely locate certain points upon the external surface of the chest, the following guides may prove of value; 1. The nipple of the male usually corresponds to the interval between the fourth and fifth ribs and is situated about three-quar- ters of an inch external to their cartilages. 2. The scapula extends to the space between the seventh and the eighth ribs. 3. The lower border of the pectoralis major muscle is nearly parallel with the fifth rib. 4. A line drawn around the chest on the level of the nipple intersects the sixth rib at the point midway between the sternum and the spinal column. As this is the seat of election in tapping the chest, this guide has a practical value. 5. As the ribs incline downwards from their point of attach- ment to the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, it is to be remembered that the level of a rib on the anterior aspect of the chest does not correspond to the level of the same dorsal verte- bra, and a guide may be afforded in estimating the approximate relation of any given point by remembering that the tip of the sternum is nearly on a level with the 10th dorsal vertebra. 6. The junction of the first and the second bones of the ster- num corresponds to the anterior extremity of the 2nd rib, and this point can usually be detected by a transverse ridge upon the sternum. THE PELVIS. The remaining four bones, pertaining to the trunk, which