334 ANGIOLOGY. As regards the angle of separation of arterial branches from the main trunk we find an equal diversity. Some form an obtuse angle, some a right angle, and a few an acute angle with the trunk from which they spring. It is to be remembered, however, that, while these arterial branches are always individually smaller in size than the vessels from which they spring, that the area of the supplying trunk never equals the combined area of its branches. Authors of works upon anatomy frequently compare the arterial system to a cone, whose apex only resembles the area of the aorta and whose enormous base corresponds to the combined areas of the capilla- ries which owe their circulation to its original contents. The smaller arteries, in course of their distribution to the va- rious parts of the body, communicate freely with each other in almost all portions of the body by what is termed anastomosis or inosculation ; but, where such a communication occurs between vessels of larger calibre, great necessity is perceived to exist for unimpaired freedom and activity of circulation. Thus we find this condition prominent in the brain, especially at the circle of Willis, and also in the mesentery, where vessels of large size com- municate ; since, in these situations, circumstances tending to im- pede the circulation in any one trunk might otherwise be attended with consequences of the gravest import. This condition is also perceived in the circulation of the hand and foot. Three axioms may be here stated as regards the communica- tion of arteries, which deserve attention and which may assist memory. A. Every artery anastomoses with its fellow, excepting in the extremities and a few vessels distributed to viscera. As interesting examples of this fact, may be mentioned the anastomoses between the two anterior cerebral arteries, by the an- terior communicating branch ; between the two obturators, by a transverse branch; between the vertebral arteries, by their union to form the basilar; between the epigastric arteries, by a trans- verse branch; between the two external carotids, by the union of nearly all of their branches ; and between the intercostals and the upper lumbar arteries of each side, by encircling the trunk. The second general axiom is as follows: B. Every artery anastomoses with the vessel immediately above and below it. As marked examples of this fact, we find, in the lower limb, the branches of the external iliac artery and those of the femoral artery forming a great posterior and a minor anterior anastomo-