THE PENIS. 5<53 lies in intimate relation with the rectum, and it is in this space that puncture of the bladder, through the rectum, is performed ; since the close contact of the organs, and the almost entire absence of connective tissue, renders the escape of the urine, in other channels, difficult. The uvula vesica is an elevation of the mucous lining of the bladder, situated near to the mouth of that organ. It is sup- posed, by some of the more recent investigators, to assist in preventing the escape of the urine, by being lifted by the ante- rior fibres of the levator ani muscle, and thus applied, as a valve, to the internal orifice of the bladder. In this region, the mucous coat is in very close relation with the muscular coat of the bladder. The VESSELS of the bladder comprise arterial branches, derived from the internal iliac artery; and its veins open into the vein 01 the same name, after having formed an intricate plexus upon the sides and the base of the organ. The lymphatics communicate with the glands of the lumbar region. The NERVES arise from the hypogastric and sacral plex- uses ; from the former of which the upper portion of the organ is supplied/while, from the latter, the base and the neck of the organ are supplied. THE PENIS. The genital organ of the male sex consists of erectile tissue, enclosed in three compartments, called the two corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum. Each of these compartments is enclosed in a sheath of its own, which is composed of fibrous tissue, and, by prolongations of these sheaths inwards, called tra- becula, each of the three compartments is subdivided into numer- ous minute spaces, in which are contained the blood-vessels of the erectile tissue of the organ. The two corpora cavernosa lie, side by side, upon the upper surface of the penis, while the corpus spongiosum lies behind the other two compartments, being contained in the groove between the corpora cavernosa. At the anterior extremity of the organ, this portion of the penis expands into a conical shaped mass, called the glans penis, which embraces and conceals the anterior extremity of the two corpora cavernosa, which, at this point, become united. The corpora cavernosa arise from the two tuberosities of the