SURGICAL TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 365 SURGICAL TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. The vessels of the head and neck, if examined collectively, are contained within certain spaces of a triangular form, whose boundaries are defined by the borders of certain muscles, and whose contents are of great surgical interest, as the various struc- tures bearing relation to those vessels which have already been separately described, can in this way be studied from a surgical standpoint. In each of these various triangles important operations are being constantly performed and only, by a thorough knowledge of their contents and relations of each, can such operations be skilfully or safely executed. In the chapter of this volume upon the muscles of the neck, will be found a diagrammatic illustration of these triangles and sub- sequent explanatory text, in which the boundaries and floor of each are given. It will be needless therefore to repeat them here since the muscular boundaries and the floor of these triangles are properly and best considered under the head of myology. Without entering, therefore, into a description of the limits of the various triangles, the gross contents of each will first be enumerated, in order to assist the memory of students and sub- sequently the relations of the more important structures will be given. The INP'ERIOR CAROTID triangle is situated low down near the root of the neck and anterior to the sterno-mastoid muscle. It is covered by the integument, the superficial cervical fascia, the platysma muscle, the deep cervical fascia, the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid muscles and the anterior margin of the tendon of '-he sterno-mastoid muscle. It contains the following structures which possesses surgical importance. { Common carotid. 3 Arteries.. ■< Inferior thyroid. ( Vertebral. 1 Internal jugular. 3 Veins.... ■< Vertebral. (Middle thyroid, 6 Nerves.. - ' Superficial^ colli; branch of cervical plexus). Pneumogastric. Descendens noni; (branch of hypoglossal nerve). Communicans noni ; (branch of cervical plexus). Recurrent laryngeal; (branch of pneumogastric). Sympathetic. ( Trachea. 3 Organs.. *< Thyroid gland. ( Lower part of larynx.