SEES H-Zr£f ... .••.».•• r :•The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: rt hilDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21526886THE BREAKFAST BOOK.LONDON : PRINTED BY W. CLOWES AND SONS, STA1TFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS,THE BREAKFAST BOOK: gl Cflokcrjr-glook for % ^Taming Peal, OK BREAKFAST TABLE; COMPRISING BILLS OF FAKE, PASTIES, AND DISHES ADAPTED FOE ALL OCCASIONS. t LONDON: RICHARD BENTLEY, 8, NEW BURLINGTON STREET, ^ubltsljcr in ©rtinarg to $cr i/Hajrstg. I860.3PREFACE. What shall we have for dinner, is a question easily answered; but what can we have for breakfast is quite another thing. The object of this work is to solve the domestic difficulty. In the first chapter will be found assembled together the principal viands which are more or less in daily request for our ordi- nary breakfasts. Most of the articles enumerated are of a homely description. The second chapter is devoted to such quickly-dressed dishes as may be readily prepared at a short notice. They are alike suitable for ceremonial or domestic repasts. The succeeding chapters, with the exception of the one upon the subject of fish, treat principally of comes- tibles that housekeepers may prepare at leisure, and keep in readiness until wanted. At the end are bills of fare for the several seasons hVI PREFACE. of the year. These may bo consulted, and selections made from them, in accordance with the means, tastes, and requirements of different housekeepers. Generally speaking, breakfasts may be classed under four heads: the family breakfast, the dejeuner a la fourchette, the cold collation, and the ambigu. The first is with us entirely made up of hors d'ceuvres, or by-dishes, either hot or cold, which are served without sauce. In a dejeuner a la fourchette things are introduced in courses, similar to a dinner. Cold collations need scarcely be defined: almost all recherche' things are proper for them, provided they are prepared for the purpose, so as to produce an ornamental effect. The ambigu is an entertainment of a very heterogeneous character, having a resemblance to a dinner, only that everything is placed upon the table at once ; and releves, soup, vegetables, and hot entremets, are held to be ineligible. Our every- day breakfasts are in a small way served en ambigu, inasmuch as broiled fish, cold pasties, devilled bones, boiled eggs, cold ham, etc., all appear together. As a rule, dishes of grilled or tossed meat are to be preferred before those dressed after other methods;VU PEEFACE. but bear in mind, that in the Italian tongue, the name of the morning meal is represented by the word collezione, or collection ; and though it may be beyond our scope to banquet our guests with buffalo humps, reindeer tongues, lordly peacocks, stately swans, or Strasbourg pies, less pretending materials are seldom wanting to give the attractive variety which should constitute a collezione. Browning Rill, Nov., 1865.CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. Pages 1-24. Things most commonly served for Family Breakfasts. Anchovies — Beefsteaks — Bloaters—Brain Cakes, etc.— Brawn— Caviare—Cod—Cold boiled Beef—Cold Game or Poultry—Cold Ham—Cold Meat—Cold Tongue—Collared Meat or Fisli— Curries — Devilled Bones, etc.—Dried Sprats — Eggs — Fresh Fish—Fried Potatoes and Bacon—Fried Eggs and Bacon— Frizzled Bacon—Hough of Ham—Hunter’s Beef—Kippered Fish—Meat and Fish Pies—Mutton Chops—Omelettes—Oysters —Pickled Fish—Pork Cutlets—Potted Meat, Game, or Fish— Preserved Sardines and Tunny-fish—Bed or White Herrings— Sausages—Slices of Ham—Slleep’s Tongues—Sheep's Kidneys —Shrimps, Prawns, or Crayfish—Smoked Haddock—Scolloped Meat, Game, or Fish—Smoked Salmon—Strasbourg or York- shire Pies—Sweetbreads—Yeal Cutlets. CHAPTER II. Pages 25-39. Made Dishes, etc., which may be quickly prepared. Blanquettes of Cold Meat—Broiled Game, etc.—Calfs Liver and Bacon—Capilotade of Poultry—Civets of Game—Croquettes of Meat, etc.—Cold Meat, en persillade—Coquilles, or Scalloped Meat, etc.—Curries—Dolpettes of Cold Meat—Fillets of Meat, etc., en papillotes—Fried Poultry, Game, etc.— Game, etc., a la minute—Ham Toast—Hashed Game, etc.—Marinade of ColdCONTENTS. X Poultry, etc.—Mayonnaise of Cold Game, etc.—Meat Rolls —Minced Poultry, Meat, etc.—Miroton of Cold Meat—Poultry, etc., a la chipolata—Rissoles—Salmis of Game—Salmis (coldj— Sportsman’s Salmis—Salad of Game, etc.—Truffles—Vinaigrette of Cold Meat. CHAPTER m. Pages 40—43. Sauces suitable fob Breakfasts generally, and Cold Collations. Anchovy Butter—Chutney Sauce—Cold Curry Sauce—Lobster Butter—Lopresti Sauce—Mayonnaise Sauce—Montpellier Butter —Ravigote Sauce—Remolade Sauce—Shrimp, or Prawn Butter. CHAPTER IV. Pages 44—63, Savory Pies for eating cold. Beefsteak Pie—Calf’s-feet Pie—Calfs-head Pie—Chicken, or Fowl Pie—Duck Pie—Giblet Pie—Goose Pie—Ham Pie—Hare Pie —Kidney Pie—Lamb’s-head Pie—Lamb Pie—Mutton Pie— Ox-cheek Pie—Partridge Pie—Pate de Pithiviers—Perigord Pie —Pheasant Pie—Pic-nic Pie—Pigeon Pie—Pork Pie—Rabbit Pie—Sausage Pie—Small Patties—Strasbourg Pie—Sweetbread Pie—Terrine of Hare—Turkey Pie—Veal Pie—Venison Pie— Woodcock Pie—Yorkshire Pie. CHAPTER V. Pages 64—77. Savory Puddings, Sausages, and Dishes requiring time TO PREPARE THEM. Devonshire White Pudding—French White Pudding—Game Pud- dings—Puddings a la Biclidieu—Strasbourg Puddings—DriedCONTENTS. XI Sausages—Bologna Sausage—Cervelas, or Smoked Sausage— Lyons Sausage — Italian Sausage—Spanish Sausage—Fresh Sausages, etc.—Mutton Sausages—Pork or Beef Sausages— Truffle Sausages—Veal Sausages—Venison or Game Sausages —Cake of Veal or Poultry—Calfs-liver Cake—Galantines— Game Cake—Ham Cake—Italian Cheese—Meat, Game, etc., in Jelly—Pic-nic Cheese—Poultry, etc., en daube—Poultry, rolled —Boasted or Braised Game or Poultry—Boiled Meat. CHAPTEB VI. Pages 7S—95. Collaeed, Pickled, and Potted Meat, etc. Beef, a.la mode—Breakfast Beef—Collared Beef—Collared Calf’s Head—Collared Pig’s Head—Collared Sucking Pig—Collared Veal—Collared Venison—French Bcouf, ecarlate—Goose, pre- served as at Bayonne—Hams and Bacon—Hambourg, or Dutch Beef— Hunters’ Beef—Imitated Boar's Head—Marbled Veal — Mock Brawn —Pickled Brisket—Pickled Goose or Duck- Pickled Palates—Pickled Partridges or Pigeons — Pickled Thrashes or Snipes—Pickled Veal or Turkey—Pork Cheese- Potted Beef—Potted Birds—Potted Cheese—Potted Cold boiled Beef—Potted Game or Poultry—Potted Hare—Potted Babbits— Potted Tongue—Potted Venison—Preserved Babbits—Smoked Goose—To pickle a Tongue—Venison Beef. CHAPTEB VII. Pages 9G—117. FISH. Fish, boiled—Fish, broiled—Fish, fried—Fish, tbssekor saute—Fish, au gratin Baked Fish—Fish, roasted—Fish, collared—Anchovy Sandwiches and canapes—Anchovy Toast—Buttered Crab- Buttered Shrimps—Brandade of Cod-Fish—Casserole of Fish —Croquettes of Fish—Dressed Crab—Dried Salmon and otherCONTENTS. XII fisli—Fish Pnsto—Fish, with Parmesan Cheese—Galantine of Salmon—Hot Crab—Mayonnaise of Fish—Omelettes of Fish— Oyster Loaves—Oysters and Macaroni—Oyster Sausages—Piece of Salmon with Montpellier Butter—Pickled Mackerel or Sal- mon—Piclded Cockles and Mussels—Pickled Smelts—Pickled Oysters—Potted Fish—Potted Oysters—Salad of Fish—Scal- loped Fish—Scotch Woodcock — Smelts in Jelly—Smoked Salmon—Prawn or Shrimp Pudding—Spanish Pickle—To Cure Salmon. CHAPTER VIII. Pages 118-127. FISH PIES. Carp Pie—Cod Pie—Eel Pie—Fish Patties—Flounder or Flat-fish Pie—Herring Pie—Lobster Pie—Lobster Patties—Mackerel Pie —Mixed Fish Pie—Salmon Pie—Salt or Stockfish Pie—Shrimp Pie—Sole Pie—Tench Pie—Trout or Grayling Pie—Turbot or Brill Pie—Oyster or Mussel Pie—Oyster Patties. CHAPTER IX. Pages 128—139. BILLS OF FARE FOR BREAKFASTS THROUGHOUT THE YEAR.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. CHAPTER I. Things .most commonly served for Family Breakfasts. ANCHOVIES. Some housekeepers send these to table either simply in the jars in which they were imported, or merely laid out in a dish, without the slightest attempt at decoration or good arrangement. Pro- perly, they should be treated as followsTake six or eight pickled anchovies, wash them in vinegar and water, bone them, and cut the flesh in neat slices ; dispose them prettily in a dish, with a garnish of the chopped hard-boiled yolks and whites of eggs, kept separately, a little parsley or chervil, and a few capers. Sprinkle with olive oil, and serve. See also Anchovy Toast, Canapes, Anchovy Sandwiches, etc. BEEFSTEAKS. Beef or rather rump steaks, for broiling, should not be much more than half-an-inch thick, or they2 TIIE BREAKFAST BOOK. will bo hard on the outside before they are done through. Pepper them well, but do not salt them until previous to serving them, or the gravy will be drawn. Do them over an ardent fire, and only turn them once. When tossed, or as it is commonly called, fried, the pan should be made hot, then rubbed over with fat, and the steak put in. A quick fire is requisite. When done, pepper and salt it, and lay upon the top some pieces of either fresh or anchovy butter. Garnish with cresses, or little heaps of finely shred shalot, gherkins, or scraped horse-radish. Some prefer a beefsteak rolled, or served upon a sauce made by pouring a wineglassful of madeira, sweet ale, chili vinegar, or ketchup, into the pan, after the meat is taken up; or having an oyster or tomato sauce apart. Remember, whether tossed or broiled, beefsteaks should be done quickly; never suffer them to go to sleep over the fire. BLOATERS. These maybe scraped, peppered, rubbed over with oil, and either broiled, tossed in butter, or toasted ' before the fire. They are also very good if soaked in oil, and baked in a brisk oven. Drain, and serve them with crisp parsley. For an entree they may be done thus:—Bone and skin the flesh, and place it in buttered paper cases, upon a layer of chopped mush- room, parsley, and chives, cover with some of the3 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. sauce, dust bread-crumbs on the top, and broil upon a gridiron, over a gentle fire. Bloafers are likewise excellent potted, to form fish-paste, which see. Ihey are rightly in season from the commence- ment of October to the end of December. BRAIN-CAKES, ETC. The brains of the ox, hog, or calf, if properly treated, are very delicate eating, and admit of various ways of preparation. In almost all cases they require to be first blanched, by soaking in cold water, and afterwards thrown into boiling water seasoned with vinegar and salt. W hen cold, they may be sliced, and fiied in butter, or made into coquilles (scallops). These need the addition of Parmesan cheese. Or they are exceedingly good as a mayonnaise. Inter- sperse pieces of cold brains with hard-boiled eggs and ornamental-shaped slices of cold tongue, pickles, etc.; sauce with a mayonnaise or ravigote sauce, and decorate with lumps of jelly, olives, sliced lemon, etc. Or directly the brains have been plain boiled, toss them in butter, and serve them a la maitre d’hotel, or with either a shrimp or anchovy butter. For brain-cakes, beat the blanched brains to a smooth paste, add shred sage, seasoning, and egg, sufficient to give them the requisite consistency; fry them of a fine brown.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 4 BRAWN’. This can generally be procured either at the pastiycooks or provision merchants; but as it is expensive to purchase, those who are partial to it should prepare it at home. When served in slices, it should be cut rather thin, and garnished with fresh parsley ; but if sent to table ih bulk, a white napkin should be arranged under it in the dish. The differ- ence between brawn and pork-cheese consists in the skin of the meat being chopped-up and mixed with the other ingredients in the latter article, instead of being used to envelope it in, as is done in brawn. CAVIARE. Caviare, or preserved sturgeon-roe, is sold, pressed and unpressed, in canisters. In the latter, or whole state, it is employed in meat pies, ragouts, etc. Pressed, or in the form of a paste, it may be eaten spread upon bread and butter; with dry toast, or cut in thin slices, it may be tossed in olive oil, and served with lemon juice. COD. After salt cod has been properly soaked in water and vinegar, it may be cut into neat collops, wipedTHE BKEAKFAST BOOK. 5 diy, peppered, well rubbed over with olive oil, and grilled until thoroughly browned; squeeze lemon over them, and serve. Or slices may be dipped into butter and fried. If ready-dressed, see Brandade of Codfish, Fish Croquettes, Fish with Parmesan Cheese, Curries, and Coquilles of Fish. Mustard, scraped horse-radish, and vinegar, are generally sent to table with salt fish. t COLD BOILED BEEF. This, when intended to be introduced upon the breakfast-table, should, previously to boiling, be care- fully boned, and skewered together in as nice a form as possible, and when cold, arranged in a white cloth. If served in slices, it should not be cut quite so thin as ham would be. Vide Vinaigrette, Bemolade, Persillade, Cold Beef, Potted, etc. Some people make bubble-and-squeak with slices of cold boiled beef, fried with cold cabbage, but it is an inelegant and not over-wholesome dish. COLD GAME OK POULTRY. When either poultry or game is dressed expressly to appear at table cold, particular care should be taken to make it look as well as possible. For this purpose it is almost invariably first roasted, either plain or larded. When anything more recherche is aimed at, it may be boned and made into a galantine andTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. G braised. If served already cut up (unless when tied together again with white ribbon), the superior parts only should be made use of, and these should be tastefully garnished. For a collation, or a dejeuner a la fourchette, it is preferable arranged in a salad or a mayonnaise, or en aspic (in jelly). Ready-dressed game or poultry forms admirable curries, rissoles, croquettes, devils, scallops, salmis, etc. COLD HAM. A cold boiled ham is a welcome object at even the most distinguished tables. Epicures frequently prefer York hams to those of Bayonne or Westphalia. In curing the latter sugar is used, and the flavour of the Bayonne hams is owing to wine lees being employed in the pickle, while the superiority of York hams is due to the goodness of the salt made use of. Hams should always be neatly trimmed before being boiled ; and unless they are exceedingly high dried, they are better without being soaked in water previously to boiling. Small-sized hams should be chosen for break- fast eating; for where the party in the house is not large, one gets tired of the sight of a frequently-pre- sented joint of meat. Lately very miniature breakfast hams (some under six pounds in weight), are offered in the shops; but these are too suspiciously small to be tempting. Ham cannot reasonably be cut too thin. The remains of a ham are capable of being7 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. made use of as ham toast; in forcemeat; as ham cake; as an omelette; and as ham pie (see these things). Hams are sometimes roasted. To do them in this way, they are soaked in wine, the rind removed, and then slowly roasted. They should be well glazed, and served Cold upon a white napkin. Hams are likewise to he coated over with melted suet or a coarse paste, and slowly baked. COLD MEAT. By this is commonly understood a joint of meat which has done duty at dinner the day before; and from carelessness housekeepers are often prone to introduce the most insipid joints, rather thau take the trouble to prepare from them anything more relishing:. The most admissible articles are cold roast beef, cold roast spare-rib, cold boiled pickled pork or gammon, etc. As for cold mutton and veal, in a general way, they should be avoided in favour of something more tasty and appetizing. "When meat is dressed purposely to appear cold, it should, if possible, be rolled. x COLD TONGUE. Ox or neats’ tongues are held in higher estimation in England than they are elsewhere. They have the one great recommendation of making a show and of not8 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. being costly. "When cured at home they are not half the price charged for them at the provision shops. When served, they should he agreeably decorated with ornamentally-cut paper. The remains of a cold tongue are very useful as a savoury addition to other meats. It is also very good au gratin (with bread- crumbs), potted, sliced, and devilled, grilled in paper cases, warmed up with Parmesan cheese, and forms a variety of made dishes. For extraordinary occasions, a tongue should be larded and glazed, or collared. COLLARED MEAT OR FISH. Scarcely anything is more convenient in house- keeping than collared meats. When once made they will, if properly attended to, keep well for some months. When presented at table in the piece, it should be surrounded with a white napkin, and a slice should be first removed from the top, so as to show a fresh cut. If served in slices, they should be garnished with fresh herbs or pickles. By way of variety, slices can be dipped into beaten egg and tossed in butter over a quick fire, or it may be used in sandwiches, or eaten with toast. CURRIES. Either poultry, fish, flesh, or game, whether previ- ously dressed or not, may be quickly converted into9 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. a dish of curry. With the exception of mutton, which makes the most admirable of curries, white meats are considered the most suitable for this kind of dish. Beef, for some unfounded reason, is rarely curried. For ordinary repasts, a bordering of boiled rice round the dish may he omitted, sliced lemon serving the same purpose. Cold meat makes as good a curry as that dressed expressly. Cold boiled cod- fish browned, with a few onions, and curried, is excellent. DEVILLED BOXES, ETC. The members of cold roasted poultry, game, rabbits, etc., should be slightly scored across in the thick places, then dipped into oil or liquid butter, and seasoned very highly with red and black pepper, salt, and, if approved of, a little curry-powder, then broil them over a pretty quick fire. Serve with a squeeze of lemon upon a chutney or piquante sauce. Cold chickens, pigeons, young ducks, and such things, when they are devilled whole, should be first split open at the back. \\ hen meat bones are devilled, some cooks merely first dip them into strong mixed mustard before they are grilled. DRIED SPRATS. These are seldom in the market until after 5th November. They should be separately wiped, as10 TIIE BREAKFAST BOOK. they are seldom over clean after undergoing the pro- cess of curing; then either toast them before the fire, or skewer them in rows and broil them quickly over a clear fire. Serve them as hot as jmu possibly can. EGGS. Although there are upwards of a hundred recog- nized methods of dressing eggs, almost the only established way in which they appear by themselves at family breakfasts, is a la coque, or boiled in their shells. The French manner of performing this is to make some water boiling hot, then take it off the fire, place the eggs in it, and let them remain exactly five minutes. Serve them enveloped in a white napkin, or in egg cups. Plover’s eggs require full ten minutes boiling, and may be sent to table hot or cold. FRIED POTATOES AND BACON. Though a very homely dish, this is a very difficult one to dress satisfactory, unless care and attention be bestowed upon it. In -the first place, the bacon should be neither too thick nor too thin; it should be done quickly and thoroughly without being burnt. The cold boiled potatoes should be well chopped and peppered before they are put into the frying-pan, and turned about without intermission until the steam arises freely from them, for nothing is more objec-THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 11 tionable than when they are barely warmed. The fire should be pretty brisk, but not fierce. Put the potatoes into a dish, and arrange upon them the slices of bacon en couronne (in a circle), round the margin. FRIED EGGS AXD BACOX. The slices of bacon or ham should be as nearty as possible of a size, and not too thick. Toss them in a frying pan until they are nicely browned, then break your eggs into the pan, and when they are sufficiently set firm, trim them neatly and place them upon the meat. The eggs may be poached, if preferred; they are then less rich, but not nearly so savoury. FRESH FISH. Fish being such an important adjunct to the break- fast table, 1 have devoted a chapter specially to it, which see. FRIZZLED BACOX. Eashers, whether of bacon or ham, are quite an English institution; you will never even meet with the mention of them in Continental cookery-books. The meat should on no account be cut thick, and pains should be taken that it should be done to such a degree as to eat somewhat crisp, the fat being deli- cately browned. The most preferable way to dress12 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. it, is to toast it before the fire, either in a Dutch oven 01 in a bacon-toaster ; but it is often broiled or tossed in a frying-pan. The latter method answers well enough for bacon, but it is apt to make ham soft. The rind should be taken off before cooking, and the ham may be peppered; bacon is better without seasoning. HOUGH OF HAM. A hough or knuckle of ham is a neat little dish for a small breakfast, being just enough to be dis- posed of at once. It is always served cold, and is sometimes accompanied with sliced hard-boiled eggs, interspersed with tufts of parsley, cresses, or other herbs. . hunter’s beef. Hunter’s beef, hung beef, Dutch beef, and pressed beef, are most useful household provisions, and if cured at home are less expensive in the end than even less pretentious articles. After they have been served a certain time in bulk, they can with great advantage be potted, or introduced in slices devilled, or era persillade, vinaigrette, omelettes, etc. KIPPERED FISH. If the fish be large cut it into long-shaped pieces, and dip them into oil, and broil them slightly.THE BEEAKFAST BOOK. 13 Should the fish he done entire, it may he scored in the thick fleshy parts, so as to let the heat reach it equally and quickly, as it ought not to he much dressed. Mackerel is exceedingly good simply toasted, and served with a little pounded loaf sugar sprinkled over it. MEAT AND FISH PIES. The value of savoury pies cannot he too highly insisted upon; they redeem the character of any meal, whether breakfast, luncheon, pic-nic, or supper. Even in summer they will, if well compounded, keep for several days; but care should he observed to put them by in a dry place, otherwise the crust becomes limp. Raised pies should invariably be served upon a damask napkin folded under them in the dish. Vol a vents being served hot, and requiring a good deal of pains to prepare them, we have omitted giv- ing, although very generally served at dejeuners a la fourcliette; the less aristocratic raised pies which we have contented ourselves with introducing are more in request for family repasts, and are most useful on account of their suitability for cold collations. See chapter upon Savoury Pies. MUTTON CHOPS. Ti'ith the exception of sheep’s kidneySj mutton chops are, beyond any other description of freshTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 14 meat, the most generally consumed for breakfast. Properly cut and well cooked they are as admirable a viand as we can command; but, unfortunately, the above conditions are not frequently observed. On the Continent mutton-chops are mostly had from the best end of the neck, which is faultlessly divided into cutlets of an uniform thickness; these are divested of all the bone, with the exception of a por- tion of the rib; the skin is removed from the fat, the meat is made into a regular shape, it is smartly flat- tened with a side-stroke from the chopper, and when dressed is dipped into dissolved butter, and either tossed or grilled over a gay fire, and served with a clear gravy in the dish, and garnished with pickled gherkins or capers. Or they are broiled in paper cases a la Maintenon. A steak of mutton cut from a tender leg, and sprinkled with bread-crumbs and Parmesan cheese, then broiled, is a favourite dish in the South of Europe. Serve with tomato sauce. OMELETTES. Take four or six eggs, according to the size of the omelette required, break them into a basin, remove the treadles, add to the eggs, salt, pepper, and a table- spoonful of either milk or water : heat some lard or butter in a frying-pan, pour in the eggs, and fry them upon a brisk fire until the under side of the omelette is nicely browned. Observe, it should not15 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. be turned in the pan. Eoll it or fold in the ends as you put it into the dish. Besides the foregoing ordi- nary omelette, the following things may be em- ployed :—bacon, ham, tongue, dried sausage, kidney, Gruyere cheese, asparagus tops, truffles, oysters, cold meat, poultry, game or fish, green peas, tomatoes, mushrooms, savoury herbs, etc. When meat of any kind is used it may be either pounded to a paste and mixed with the eggs, or merely minced and put into the frying-pan, the eggs being afterwards poured upon it. For a cheese omelette the Gruyere should be chopped up and strewn upon the eggs after they are in the pan. Parmesan cheese should be first grated and beaten up with the eggs before frying the ome- lette. Truffles, mushrooms, and peas, require to be stewed and placed upon the eggs, as soon as they are set on the under side in the frying pan. Veal kid- ney should be similarly prepared. OYSTERS. For dejeuners a la fourchette oysters are preferable au natural (undressed), but for family breakfasts they are considered more savouiy if broiled or fried. ^ hen they are scalloped, they are better if baked in a side-oven rather than before the fire, as in the latter method it often happens that the oysters are not suf- ficiently cooked. They are delicious if left in tieTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 16 deep shell, and a little lemon-juice, bread-crumbs, and pepper sprinkled over them ; add a bit of butter, then place them upon a gridiron over a brisk fire, and let them remain till they begin to get plump. To fry oysters the larger sort should be chosen, beard and season them, dip them into a batter or beaten egg, and fry them quickly ; serve with crisp parsley. Or they may be wanned up in a little cream, and dished with small sippets of toast. Abroad they are frequently formed into a ragout with Spanish chesnuts. They may likewise be made into patties, omelettes, etc. See also Curry, Oyster- loaves, Oysters and Macaroni, etc. PICKLED FISH. No housekeeper should neglect, when any kind of fish is plentiful, to provide a supply for pickling. If made into a fresh pickle—that is, when some of the liquor is used in which the fish is boiled—it will only keep for a week or two, but when regularly preserved in strong vinegar and spices it will con- tinue good for many months. At the provision shops hermetically-sealed canisters of fresh fish are sold : this is exceedingly well-flavoured in its way, but is expensive on account of the small quantity contained in each canister.17 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. PORK CUTLETS. In Spain, a pork cutlet and poached egg, with a squeeze of orange juice, constitute the breakfast of most of those who can afford to procure the luxury. The pork, which in its living state has been fattened upon sweet chestnuts, is cooked by being immersed in boiling olive oil, and rightly it merits its popularity. In England, pork chops or cutlets are usually not so esteemed : rubbed over with powdered sage, they are most commonly broiled, but as they need some time to cook, they are often found to be either smoky, burnt, underdone, or hard. They are better if boned, peppered, skewered round like little fillets, and tossed in butter. Serve garnished with barberries, and sauced with horseradish, tomato or piquante sauce. Pickles and mustard apart. POTTED MEAT, GAME, OR FISH. A very small quantity of any kind of cold meat can be converted into a paste and potted, and in this way make a much more refined-looking dish than it otherwise would. Slightly warm the outsides of the moulds, and turn it out to serve. Garnish with branches of bay or savoury herbs. Or, tolerably thin slices may be cut out and laid in a dish, with a deco- ration of green parsley; it may likewise be spread between thin bread-and-butter, or eaten with dry toast. cTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 18 , PRESERVED SARDINES AND TUNNY-FISH. English people unfortunately entertain so strong a prejudice against anything prepared with oil, that in many houses the practice exists of dipping preserved sardines or tunny-fish into boiling water before they are deemed acceptable as an eatable; better forego the fish entirely than subject it to such treatment. They may be sent to table in the same manner as anchovies—which see. If preferred hot, dip them into beaten egg, and fry them, or serve them in croquettes, coquilles, petits pates, omelettes, etc. RED OR WHITE HERRINGS. As these can be procured throughout the year they deserve to be specially noticed. They are most generally tossed, toasted, or broiled, being first split open down the back. With a good fire they are done in a few moments. Besides these methods, they may be dressed thus : take the flesh from the sides, free from bone and skin ; throw it into boiling milk, ale, or water; let it remain two or three minutes, take it up, and either nib it over with fresh butter, and serve hot with buttered eggs, or let it become cold, arrange it upon a dish, mask it with herbs, and sprinkle it plentifully with olive oil. To do them with bread-crumbs, trim off the fins, tail, and head,19 TIIE BREAKFAST BOOK. open them at the back, dip them into dissolved butter, and then into a mixture of bread-crumbs, chopped herbs, and spices; repeat this operation, and broil them. In the South of Europe salt her- rings are divested of their heads and tails, then put into boiling water for ten minutes, and afterwards served with very thin slices of lemon or sour apples and onion; olive oil and mustard apart. SAUSAGES. It is the usual practice to simply toss sausages in lard or butter, for if broiled they are apt to become smoky before they are properly done. As they take some time to cook, first prick them with a needle to prevent the skins from breaking. Garnish with pickled red cabbage, or apples sliced and tossed till nicely browned. Observe that underdone sausages are execrable. SLICES OF HAM. There is, after all, hardly anything more accept- able to the epicure than a savoury rasher of ham. It should be broiled upon or toasted before a brisk fire, then rubbed over with fresh butter, and sprinkled with pepper. Eggs fried or poached may be served with the ham if approved of. If you have reason to believe that the ham is too salt, dip the rashers for a moment or two into boiling water before cooking. See also Ham Cake, Ham Toast, Omelettes, Ham Pie, etc.20 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. sheep’s tongues. Though certainly not a recherche comestible, sheep’s tongues have tboir admirers. The tongues may be procured ready dressed at the provision warehouses, and eaten cold, or they may be prepared at borne. Blanch them, that is to say, plain boil them until they will skin easily, and then simmer them in stock until they are tender. "When cold you can slit them down the middle, rub them with butter, and brown them before the fire; or dip them into bread-crumbs and butter, and broil them; or do them with chopped herbs, etc., in paper cases ; or sprinkle them with Parmesan cheese, and place them in an oven till they are browned. They may likewise be served cold with a ravigote sauce, or curried or devilled. Pickles, tomato, Lopresti, or chutney sauce should be sent to table with them. sheep’s kidneys. Custom seems to have established but one method of dressing sheep’s kidneys for breakfast, namely, a la brochette, or broiled. Split them open, but do not entirely divide them. Put a fine skewer through them to prevent their warping or closing together again: place them, inside downwards, upon a grid- iron : as soon as they feel pretty firm turn them, and —.k*. , .....21 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. directly the gravy is well risen take them up; pepper, salt, and add to each a good piece of butter rubbed in some boiled parsley, squeeze a lemon over them, and put them into a hot dish. It is also admissible to toss them in butter, or cut them into thin slices, season them, dip them into batter, and fry them. They are also capital devilled, or chopped small after they are dressed, and made into croquettes or an omelette—for this purpose one kidney i6 sufficient for a moderate-sized omelette. SHRIMTS, PRAWN, OR CRAYFISH. When perfectly fresh, these and shellfish generally are peculiarly appropriate for breakfasts, or any other light repast, as they make such an ornamental effect at table. Dish them up carefully by arranging a white napkin in the form of a pyramid, and putting the fish round it: intersperse with fresh parsley.— See also Shrimp Pudding, ditto Butter, Patties, Cro- quettes, etc. SMOKED HADDOCK. This should be moistened with olive oil, placed upon a gridiron, and merely warmed through: indeed in some parts of Scotland it is sliced and eaten without being dressed at all. Many cooks subject it to the same treatment as salt cod, kippered fish or red herrings, to which you can refer.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 22 SCALLOPED MEAT, GAME, OR FISH. hen comestibles of any kind are scalloped they are done in scallop or pilgrim shells, or tin patty- pans made to resemble them. A very small quantity of cold meat goes a great way when scalloped, bread-crumbs, chopped egg, mashed potatoes, or forcemeat being added to fill up, Bake, broil, or do them in a Dutch oven before the fire, and serve in the shells. SMOKED SALMON'. Dried salmon needs very little cooking. It may be sliced and broiled in oiled paper cases, or tossed in butter or olive oil, and served with lemon juice; or throw it into boiling water, and at the end of a few minutes take it up, and when cold arrange it as a salad, or with a rcmolade or ravigote sauce. STRASBOURG, OR YORKSHIRE PIES. The former of these are generally imported from the country in which they are made, but the latter may be very successfully prepared at home. The crust of Yorkshire pies is not intended to be eaten, but is kept to preserve the contents of the pasty ; to avoid the inconvenience attending this arrange- ment, thick earthenware dishes, with covers to them,23 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. are now to be procured at the leading provision shops: these dishes are called terrines, and in them we can preserve our pies, or portions of pies, in safety. Meat pasties may also be made in these terrines, using them in place of crust, and merely lining them with thin slices of bacon fat or a layer of forcemeat or both: put some of the same upon the top, place on the cover, and bake as you would an ordinary pie. If preferred, the pies when cold can be turned out of the terrines by first laying the dishes for a few moments in boiling water. SWEETBREADS. These require to be blanched or parboiled, to whiten them. This being done, rub them with butter, and roast them, or cut them lengthwise, dip them into egg and bread-crumbs, and either fry them or broil them in paper cases; or, without cutting them, put into an oven and bake them; or slice them cross- wise, and toss them in butter. Serve them with tomato sauce, and decorate them with slices of lemon or barberries, or very delicately-cut slices of toasted ham, bacon, or tongue. They are also capable of be- ing converted into rissoles, scallops, or croquettes, and are exceedingly delicious curried. Cold sweet- breads are excellent as a mayonnaise, or with a remo- lade or ravigote sauce.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 24 VEAL CUTLETS. Chops or cutlets of veal require a good deal of careful cooking. They may he broiled with a coating ot herbs, etc., in paper cases, but are really preferable for the breakfast-table simply tossed. AY hen cut thin enough, they need not be beaten before they are dressed, for if the veal is quite fresh there is no fear of its not being tender. Garnish with sliced lemon and small pieces of toasted bacon. WITH MARMALADE OR PRESERVED FRUITS OF DIFFERENT DESCRIPTIONS, AND NARBONNE HONEY, ETC. The foregoing constitute the chief comestibles current with most classes for the breakfast-table. In the following chapter are given some made dishes which are expeditiously dressed, indeed the majority of them may be prepared under half an hour. Bagouts, stews, fricandeaux, and fricassees, are purposely omitted, their name being legion, and a more considerable time being involved in their cooking than could be afforded by the generality of housekeepers.25 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. CHAPTER II. Made Dishes, etc., which may be quickly prepared. BLANQUETTES OF COLD MEAT. Take the white meat of cold roast turkey, rabbit, fowl, veal, or lamb, divest it of skin, cut it up arid lay it in a stewpan. Clean and slice a few button mushrooms, throw them into lemon-juice and water; drain them, and toss them in butter and white stock, season to taste, and pour it hot on the meat; let it come to almost a boil, thicken with cream, and decorate the dish with small sippets of toast.' BROILED GAME, ETC. The principal joints of birds, such as the wings and thighs, may be dijiped into butter, and then into bread-crumbs, and grilled. Partridges, pigeons, and chickens may be done by first splitting them open at the back. The haunches of rabbits should have the shank-bones removed. As a rule, broiled poultry isTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 2G preferable devilled, tliat is, rubbed over with hot spices before being dressed. Serve dry, or with a sauce made with the juice of a lemon, a glass each of Chili vinegar, wine, and ketchup, a dessert-speonful of Bengal chutney, aud a cup of gravy; add Cayenne pepper, if not sufficiently spiced. Steaks, or cutlets of pork, veal, lamb, or beef do better if cut as collops, that is to say, in pieces of a uniform size and thick- ness, without bone. It is a vexed question whether these should be turned frequently, or only once during the operation of broiling; but if the fire is precisely as it should be, and the meat of the requisite thick- ness, or rather thinness, once turning will be enough. Place them upon a hot gridiron rubbed with suet; watch the cutlets, and immediately there are indica- tions of the gravy rising, turn them, and when the gravy comes to the surface of the top-side, the meat is done. With a good fire, mutton and beef are done in a quarter of an hour, but veal and pork require at least twenty minutes. calf’s liver and bacon. This is commonly tossed in butter; the liver sliced moderately thin, is first dressed, and the rashers of bacon afterwards; serve garnished with the latter. Calf’s liver may also be fried: dip the slices into seasoned beaten egg and olive oil, and fry quickly. In France, similarly shaped pieces of liver and bacon27 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. are skewered together, then dipped into oil, and sub- sequently sprinkled with bread-crumbs, and broiled ; season and serve. When tossed without the bacon, a glass of wine may be poured into the pan, and served in the dish, with the liver arranged en couronne round. CAPILOTADE OF POULTRY. This is a speedy way of warming up cold roasted fowl, turkey, rabbit, or pigeon. Chop up some shalot, and, if you have them, three or four mushrooms, sprinkle them over with flour, fry them in butter, and add two tablespoonfuls of gravy with some pepper and salt, and a glass of white wine. Cut up the meat, and simmer it for a quarter of an hour in this pre- paration. Serve with a garnish of pickled gherkins. CIVETS OF GAME. A civet is merely an expeditious method of dressing the flesh of hare, rabbit, or venison. Cut it into mo- derately small pieces. Toss a few slices of bacon in butter until both are well browned, put in the venison* hare, or rabbit, do it over a brisk fire for five minutes, add some capers and ready-dressed small onions, also herbs and mushrooms; let it simmer for nearly twenty minutes, and serve with sippets of toast round the dish. Remember the sauce should not be thickened in any way, except that the blood from the hare may be added.28 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. CROQUETTES OF MEAT, ETC. Mince any kind of cold meat, game, fish, or poultry, season it well; mix it with some gravy, thickened almost to a paste with yolk of eggs. Make it either into halls or rolls, dip them twice successively into eggs and bread-crumbs, and fry them brown. The lean should predominate one-third over the fat, or the croquettes will not be sufficiently firm. This is a relishing way of employing cold meat. COLD MEAT, EN PERSILLADE. Slice the meat, arrange it in a dish, pepper it, place some bits of butter on it, strain on it some shred parsley and shalot, moisten it with gravy, thickly sprinkle it with rasped toast, and put it into an oven for a quarter of an hour. A little Parmesan cheese may bo added if the flavour is approved of. COQUILLES, OR SCALLOPED MEAT, ETC. In the English way of scalloping, the cold meat is chopped up, seasoned, and mixed with bread-crumbs : rightly the bread-crumbs should only be placed upon the top. Take any kind of cold roast meat, cut it into exceedingly thin slices of about an inch across, season it well, pour over it enough wine, gravy, andTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 29 melted butter to moisten, place it in buttered scallop shells, sprinkle bread-crumbs pretty thickly on the top, and place them in a hot oven till well browned. Some sliced mushrooms are a great improvement. Cold rabbit, hare, sweetbreads, poultry, ox palates, calves’ brains, foie gras, veal, and different kinds of fish, are specially adapted for coquilles. Serve in the shells. CURRIES. With Oriental people it is mutton, with the French it is veal, and with the English it is chicken, which most frequently form dishes of curry. Eabbit, too, is par- ticularly good curried; but it is an unpardonable error to make use of flour in the composition of this dish. When cold meat is warmed up as a curry, it is only requisite to cut it up, and toss it in butter, then pour in some curry, mixed in either wine, gravy, milk, or lemon-juice and water. It may subse- quently be thickened with tomato sauce, yolks of eggs, or cream. Fried onions, apples or cucumbers are often added. Serve surrounded with capsicums or other strongly-spiced pickles. For a curry made with meat not previously dressed: first, toss in butter some neat rashers of bacon ; when done, take them up and put in the meat, which should be cut into moderately-sized pieces; if a rabbit or a fowl, the thick parts of the joints should have the flesh scored across; toss it till done, then pour in the curry,30 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. mixed as above directed; replace the bacon, stir it about till the meat is well coloured, and dish it up with the sauce poured over it. There are no fixed rules for the quantity of curry to be used; tastes differing and the strength of the powder varying; but it should always be pi quant e in flavour. A few chopped pickles, such as gherkins, shalots, etc., are an advisable addition. DOLPETTES OF COLD MEAT. Prepare the meat as for a hash—or some hashed meat that has become cold will answer the purpose—• add to it some bread-crumbs, enough to stiffen the consistency, mix it together with the yolk of eggs, shape it into small balls, dip them into egg, roll them in bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and fry them brown. Glaze them or serve them with tomato sauce. FILLETS OF GAME, ETC., EN TAPILLOTES. When things are said to bo en papillotes they are entirely enveloped in folds of greased paper, en caisse they are merely laid in paper cases; in both instances thin slices of bacon fat are to be placed next to the paper, and forcemeat added at discretion. For papil- lotes, cut up and partially dress the meat by tossing it in butter, let it grow cold, well oil or smear over with butter some sheets of paper, lay in the bacon fat,THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 31 spread forcemeat over the meat, place more bacon fat upon the top, fold it carefully up, and do it on a grid- iron over a gentle fire until brown on both sides. The haunches of hares and rabbits should be larded. Cold tongue sliced, or sweetbreads, or sheep’s tongues, halved, are very delicate done in this way. To do anything en caisse : turn up the edges of some pieces of oiled paper, put in some bacon fat, then the meat, which may previously have been roasted, spread more bacon fat on the top, sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, and put them into a brisk oven until nicely browned. To judge whether the oven be of the right heat, first try in it some bits of paper, and if they do not scorch put in the cases of meat. FRIED POULTRY, GAME, ETC. Cut it up, put it into a bowl with slices of onion, parsley leaves, crushed pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon, or its equivalent, in white-wine vinegar. At the end of half an hour drain the meat, and wipe it dry; flour it, and fry it brown in butter, heap it upon a dish, and surround it with fried eggs. GAME, ETC., A LA MINUTE. In this manner may be dressed venison cutlets, young rabbits, leverets, larks, pigeons, chickens, mutton and lamb steaks, small birds, slices of calf's or lamb s liver, etc. Cut up the meat, season it and32 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. toss it in plenty of butter for from five minutes to a quarter of an bour, according to thickness. Small birds may be left whole, but poultry, hares etc., should be cut up. Pigeons, partridges, grouse, and such things, are to be simply quartered. "When the meat is done, either thicken the hutter with a little flour, add some white wine, and send to table decorated with sippets, or glaze the meat by first putting in a table- spoonful of jelly, and stirring all well about, and afterwards pour some gravy into the pan ; when hot, add this to the dish of meat and serve. Game has a finer flavour if tossed in oil. The foregoing method differs from the ordinary way of tossing, inasmuch as the sauce is thickened. Eather thin fillets of plumed game, etc., may be dressed in the above manner, and arranged in a circle round the dish, placing a glazed sippet of toast between each fillet. After cutting off the fillets, the remainder of the bird does very well split open, grilled, and served with a remolade or chutney sauce. HAM TOAST. Scrape or pound some cold ham, mix it with beaten egg, season with pepper, lay it upon buttered toast, and place it in a hot oven for three or four minutes. Dried salmon, smoked tongue, potted meats, or any other relishing viands answer equally well upon toast. - ..... ..THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 33 HASHED GAME, ETC. Detach the skin ancl sinews from cold meat of any kind, chop it fine, and put it into a stewpan •with suffi- cient strong stock; season with pepper, nutmeg, and salt; thicken it with cream, and let it nearly boil. Serve with a garnish of poached eggs placed alter- nately—with small sippets of bread tossed in oil. With white meats fried oysters may take the place of the poached eggs. Hashed calf’s head should have the brains made into small cakes fried for a garnish. With game, some chopped savoury herbs may be em- ployed. Hashed meat is sometimes served en croustade, i.e. upon pieces of toast. Cut some slices of bread, either heart-shaped or circular, remove some of the crumb from the middle, fry them in butter, lay some hash upon them, place a poached egg Upon each, and serve as hot as possible. marinade of cold poultry, etc. Cutup cold roasted chickens, wood-pigeons, turkey, rabbit, or game ; divest it of skin, and let it soak for nearly an hour in oil, wine, lemon-juice, or vinegar • season with sliced shalot, bruised bay leaves, pepper,’ salt, and shred herbs. Drain it, dip it into beaten eggs, and fry it either in oil or butter till it is well browned. Serve garnished with fried parsley. Some epicures prefer an onion or two cut up and fried with the meat. DTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 34 ' MAYONNAISE OF COLD GAME, ETC. Remove tlie skin from the flesh of cold roasted chicken, turkey, rabbit, partridge, or pheasant, cut up the meat, free from bone, put it into a bowl with salt, pepper, oil, chopped herbs, etc. Stir all together, and place it in a dish; put a circle of jelly round the edge ; pour in a mayonnaise sauce (vide), and decorate it with hard-boiled eggs, slices of anchovy, pickled gherkins, capers, branches of tarragon, chervil, etc. MEAT ROLLS. Cut some very nice little thin fillets from any kind of meat not previously dressed, lay a small por- tion of forcemeat upon them, roll them round, tie them once across with a bit of thread, moisten them outside with yolk of egg, dust them over with bread-crumbs, season with pepper, put them upon a spit, and baste them with butter; ten minutes will do them, ben them to table with gravy in the dish, garnished with sliced lemon, crisped parsley, or scraped horse-radish. minced poultry, meat, etc. After divesting the cold meat of every particle of sinew and gristle, mince it fine, and either simply season it, and put it into some boiling gravy, andTHE BKEAKFAST BOOK. 35 thicken it with butter, rolled in a small quantity of flour or add chopped mushrooms, sliced truffles, cucumbers, or onions, first tossed in butter; a little anchovy butter, white wine, or lemon-juice may be added. Decorate the dish with glazed sippets. Remark : the meat should not be allowed to boil after it is added to the gravy. MIR0T0N OF COLD MEAT. Beef, veal, and poultry, are considered the best suited for mirotons. Chop up two onions, fry them in butter until well browned, add a table-spoonful of gravy; with this mix some cold meat, minced fine, a tew bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and a beaten egg. Put it into a buttered mould, bake it till browned on the top, turn it out into a dish, and serve hot or cold. With veal add ham or tongue, and, if you like, some hard-boiled eggs, chopped small. POULTRY ETC., A LA CHIPOLATA. Cut up and season a rabbit, chicken, or pigeon, fry it quickly in butter, then add half a dozen small. sausages; when these and the meat are done, take both up and put into the pan a dessert-spoonful of flour, some mushrooms, and a glass each of white wino and gravy; when this comes to a boil, return the meat and sausages, and add a dozen blanched Spanish chestnuts; give it a boil up, and serve as hot as36 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. possible. Ortolans, larks, and small birds generally, and fillets of capon or turkey, are excellent done thus. RISSOLES. Correctly speaking, rissoles are nothing more than fried patties. Thin slices of cold fish, flesh, fowl, game, cheese, or forcemeat, are to be laid between a very thin paste, the edges of which are to be then well fastened together. Fry them in hot lard or fiiture. Serve garnished with crisped parsley. SALMIS OF GAME. This method of serving is exclusively adapted to plumed game, such as cold roasted partridges, phea- sants, plovers, quails, snipes, moor-fowl, wild ducks, ortolans, thrushes, etc. The smaller birds should be left whole; those of medium size, such as quails and small partridges should be merely halved; but when unusually large, they, as well as pheasants, require to be cut up. ' Femove the skin from the cold loasted game, divest it of the head, feet, pinions, and neck, put it into a stewpan with the juice of a lemon, two table-spoonfuls of gravy, a couple of glasses of wine, salt, spices, shalot, and shred lemon rind. Do it quickly for eight or ten minutes. Serve it arranged round the dish between sippets of toast; pour the sauce into the middle.37 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. COLD SALMIS. After warming up the game in gravy, as directed ihove, let it cool; dip the pieces into slightly-melted elly, place them in a dish, and garnish plentifully fvith lumps of jelly. sportsman’s salmis. Cut up cold roasted birds, season them highly, and svarm them up in three dessert-spoonfuls of salad oil, i glass of red wine, the juice of a lemon, and a little rf the grated rind. "When quite hot, serve with the sauce poured into the dish. SALADS OF GAME, ETC. The kind of meat most esteemed for a salad, is cither pheasant, turkey, fowl, or rabbit. After it has been roasted and grown cold, cut up the meat, trim it, remove the skin from the best or white parts, put them into a bowl and season them, then arrange them in a dish; place round them the quartered hearts of white lettuces, and hard-boiled eggs also cut into four. Decorate with capers, gherkins, capsi- cums, fillets of anchovy, stoned olives, chopped herbs, shred shalot, etc. Pour over it a salad mixture of oil,THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 38 vinegar, etc., and serve. You may intersperse it witli small thin slips of ham, tongue, or anything else you may fancy. TRUFFLES. When things are said to he a la Perigueux, it is to he understood that they are flavoured with truffles—the most admired truffles being obtained from the neigh- bourhood of Perigueux. Truffles should be chosen of as round a shape as possible. Clean them with a brush and cold water, and serve them after any of the following fashions. Wrap them in thin slices of bacon fat, then roll them up in thick oiled paper, and do them in wood-ashes, or bake them in an oven. Or slice them and toss them in butter; serve with a thickened sauce of white wine and gravy. Or do them in a stewpan, lined with thin slices of bacon fat; add a bruised bay leaf, salt, and pepper, and enough champagne to cover them. Serve them in a napkin; this manner is called en serviette. Or mince them and toss them in olive-oil; add a little chopped parsley, pepper, a glass of white wine, and the same quantity of gravy. They may likewise be put into petits pates; or, with the addition of ham and baccn fat, they maj7 be formed into a tourte.39 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. VINAIGRETTE OF COLD MEAT. Cut some cold boiled beef into small thin slices, arrange them in a dish, and season them with pepper, salt, chopped pickles, chervil, tarragon, vinegar, and oil. Decorate it with fillets of anchov}’-, gherkins, capsicums, and capers. Eemember not to stir it up before serving. Cold tongue or sausage may be sub- stituted for the cold heef.40 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. CHAPTER III. Sauces, suitable fob Breakfasts generally and Cold Collations. ANCHOVY BUTTER. Take six Gorgona anchovies, pick the flesh from the hone, fins, etc., pound it as fine as possible, and mix with it an equal weight of fresh butter. This is very relishing, either served upon dry toast, or as a sauce to other preparations. CHUTNEY SAUCE. Take eight ounces each of tamarinds, minced apples, tomatoes, pulped medlars, sultana raisins, grocers’ currants, garlic bruised, ginger powdered, and brown sugar; the grated rinds and juice of four lemons, four ounces each of salprunella and red chillies bruised, a good handful of green mint chopped, and six pints of strong vinegar. Let this41 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. be all well mixed together. Keep it in a warm place for a month, and it will be fit for use; but age im- proves it. COLD CURRY SAUCE. Pound the hard-boiled yolks of six eggs, and add gradually four large dessert-spoonfuls of olive oil, one dessert-spoonful of strong curry-powder, and a good bit of Cayenne pepper. Mix with it sufficient lemon- iuice to make it of the proper consistency to pass through a tammy. A sauce enragee is like the fore- going, with the exception of the curry-powder and iemon-juice, a little saffron taking the place of the •ormer, and more oil being used to give it the re- quired moisture. These sauces are invaluable with levilled dishes. LOBSTER BUTTER. Pound the eggs which are found under the tail of l hen lobster, and when they form a fine paste, mix -vith them an equal weight of very fresh butter, and )ass it through a tammy. LOPRESTI SAUCE. Take six ounces each of the best mustard in powder md curry-powder, half an ounce of Cayenne pepper, our ounces of mustard-seed, three ounces of bruised42 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. garlic, eight ounces each of sliced shalots and salt; put it into a jar with three pints of very strong •vinegar. Tie it down close, and keep it in a wann place by the fire for a week. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. Beat together the yolks of two raw eggs, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper; gradually add a sufficiency of fresh olive oil, and continue heating the whole until a smooth cream is formed. This sauce may he made to look green by adding a small quantity of spinach-juice. MONTPELLIER BUTTER. Take two pickled anchovies, a dessert-spoonful of capers, two or three gherkins, some peppercorns, the hard-boiled yolks of four eggs, a dessert-spoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a shalot; add the raw yolk of one egg. Pound all together in a mortar, until a soit of stiff cream is the result. Pour in enough olive oil to allow of its being passed through a sieve. After- wards let it remain to become firm. Use as required for a cold sauce, with fish or meat. RAVIGOTE SAUCE. Take the hard-boiled yolks of six eggs, a pinch each of the leaves of well-cleaned tarragon, chervil,THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 43 salad-bumet, mustard and cress, chives, and a tea- spoonful of capers, half a dozen gherkins, two ounces of preserved tunny-fish, and half a dozen anchovies. Pound all to a paste, then add a pound of the best fresh butter, two ounces of olive oil, and the juice of a lemon. Season with Cayenne pepper, mix well together, and keep it in a cool place. REM0LADE SAUCE. With equal quantities of oil and vinegar, mix a table-spoonful of the best mustard; add the raw yolks of two eggs, and a tea-spoonful each of finely- shred shalots and savoury herbs. Season with pep- per and salt, and use as wanted, either for a salad mixture, or as a sauce for cold meat. A Tartar sauce is similar to the above, but omitting the eggs. SHRIMP OR TRAWN BUTTER. After picking them from their shells, pound the fish in a mortar, add a corresponding weight of fresh butter and some Cayenne pepper. Place the mixture in a bain-marie, and when the butter is melted, pass it through a strong sieve. Servo it cold as a hois d’ceuvre. Remark : if intended to be kept for any length of time, the butter employed should have been previously clarified.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 44. CHAPTER IV. Savoury Pies for eating Cold. As this is not an elementary work upon cookery, I shall not give detailed instructions for compounding pie-crusts, presuming that in every household there is some one who can make pastry good enough for the purpose. At the same time, I am fully convinced that pastry-cooks, like poets, are bom, not made; for unless they are inherently light and cool of hand, quick, and careful, no given directions can qualify them successfully in this branch of domestic economy. There is, of course, a great similarity in the method of making all meat pasties; hut when they are to he served cold, it is a rule that the meat should be first slightly tossed, or partially roasted, before it is made into a pie. This process is believed to add a greater amount of flavour, and to insure the pie keeping better than it otherwise would. To have a good effect, pasties should not be made large for the45 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. breakfast table, and when a raised pie can be con- veniently had, it is more desirable than one made in a dish. BEEF-STEAK PIE. Have a very tender rump-steak; do not beat it if you can avoid it, as beating only draws out the gravy. Cut it into moderately small pieces, trim off the outer skin, and if too thick, remove some of the fat. Tut the meat into a frying-pan which has been rubbed with butter and made quite hot. Just brown both sides of the meat, take it up, pepper it well, lay it in your dish, which should be edged with a good crust, pour in a good breakfast-cupful of strong gravy, seasoned with a little essence of anchovy or shrimp; but observe when either of these is used, salt should be omitted, as nothing is more objectionable than a predominance of the flavour of salt in a pie. Cover with a lid of crust, and bake for an hour in a tolerably quick oven. Custom has quite established a taste for the addition of fish with beef; thus oysters are often introduced in steak-pies, and lobster-sauce sometimes chosen with them. The oysters may be first bearded, peppered, dipped into yolk of egg, and slightly browned in a pan, or chopped up raw, and with other things made into forcemeat balls ; these should be partially fried or poached before they are em- ployed. Some epicures like a small quantity ofTIIE BREAKFAST BOOK. 46 Parmesan cheese, or some shred shalot sprinkled over the meat; but such peculiar flavours had better be avoided, though, if you can manage it, a gravy made from game of any kind, especially hare, is a material improvement. calf’s-feet pie. There are sweet as well as savoury calfs-feet pies ; the former are composed of currants, candied peel, wine, etc. For the latter, boil a pair of feet in plenty of water, until you can remove the bones easily, then line a terrine with thin slices of fat bacon, over this spread some rich forcemeat, put in the meat of the feet, add some mushroom-powder or truffles sliced, and some thin slices of cold tongue or smoked sausage, season well with pepper. Pour in a little strong gravy and a glass of brandy, cover with more forcemeat and bacon fat, put on the top of the terrine, and bake for an hour and a half in a rather slow oven. The flavour may be varied by substituting oysters, caviare, or other things, fur the tongue, truffles, etc. Remark; the liquor in which the feet were boiled can be converted into jelly, but should not be put into the pie. Calves’ sweetbreads, or kidney sliced, seasoned, tossed in butter, and mingled with the calf’s feet, will be found to imjirove the pie greatly.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 47 calf’s-head pie. Boil a small calf’s head or half a large one, take all the meat from the hones, hlanch and keep the brains separately, skin the palate, tongue, etc., and cut the latter into thin slices. Season with spices according to taste. Shake the meat for a few moments in a hot pan over a brisk fire. Put a rim of crust round your dish, lay in the meat, filling up with the yolks of eggs hard-boiled, pieces of the brains, forcemeat balls, and a little minoed anchovy. Finish with a cupful of good gravy, and cover with a crust. A few flat sausages may take the place of the forcemeat balls, but they must be very highly seasoned, or the pie will be insipid. Oysters are likewise admissible. CHICKEN OR FOWL PIE. Carefully pluck, draw, and clean your birds. If chickens, simply split them open at the back; but if a fowl, cut it up. Eub the meat well with pepper, dip it into liquid butter, and broil it slightly over a clear fire. Make some rich forcemeat balls, bein'*- particular to use scraped marrow or bacon fat instead of suet; dispose the balls and the hard-boiled yolks of eggs amongst the meat when cold, and make it as a raised pie, or in an ordinary dish with a rim and48 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. top of crust. If it should he a raised pie, no gravy should be added; hut otherwise pour in a cupful of relishing gravy. Should you prefor the chickens to remain whole, lay them with their breasts upwards. Some very thin slices of bacon may be added, if approved of, or you may lard the birds instead. DUCK PIE. Prepare a couple of young ducks, by scalding and drawing them; cut off their heads, necks, feet, and pinions; boil these down with the gizzards, an anchovy, and some seasoning, to make half a pint of strong gravy. Remove the fat from the insides of the birds, put in a good deal of pepper, rub them outside with butter, and roast them for twenty minutes before a quick fire; let them grow cold, cut them up, lay them with the livers in a dish edged with crust, add the strained gravy, the juice of a Seville orange, and a table-spoonful of stoned olives. Put on a lid of paste and hake for an hour. For a raised pie, hone the ducks and pour in some jelly after the pie is dressed. G1BLET PIE. Take two sets of goose giblets; reserve the livers, and boil the rest until perfectly tender; bone them, cut the gizzards and livers in halves, skim and reduce j49 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. • the liquor, season according to taste. When cold, lay the meat in the dish along with some collops of very tender rump-steak; add shred lemon peel and the gravy, which should be strong enough to jelly when cold; cover with a crust, and bake for an hour and a-half. In some parts of England a pudding of rich forcemeat is placed in the middle of the pie, and the meat arranged round. GOOSE PIE. For a green-goose pie, bone a couple of young geese, by first opening them down the backs; pepper them, and lay them one within the other; put them into a dish with a crust, and pour in a rich seasoned gravy, made from the bones and giblets; or make it into an oval-shaped raised pie, adding the gravy after the pie is baked. The livers of the geese may be made into a forcemeat with a few truffles, etc. A finer goose pie is made by boning a full-grown goose and a large capon; season both with spices; lay the capon inside the goose, and place upon the capon a small ox-tongue which has been boiled, skinned, and divested of the root end. Put the above in a thick raised crust, or in a terrine, garnished with some forcemeat, etc. Bake it for two hours, and fill up with jelly before serving. A pigeon may be substi- tuted for the tongue, and the capon may be larded, if convenient. E50 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. HAM PIE. Take some small slices of cold boiled bam, pepper them well. Cut up a fine fowl; toss it in butter till it begins to brown. Line a dish with a good paste; lay in first some ham, then some fowl; fill up the spaces with the yolks of hard-boiled eggs ; add some mushroom powder, strew in some spices ; cover with a layer of ham, pour in some gravy, put on a top crust, and bake it for an hour and a half. Eemember, the ham should only be in the proportion of one-third the weight of the fowl, or the pie will taste too salt. Calves’ sweetbreads are very good, employed instead of the fowl. HARE PIE. Cut up a full-grown hare, make a forcemeat with the liver, season it pretty highly with grated lemon- peel and spices; bjit do not use herbs if you intend the pie to keep. Add half a pound of butter, and jug the hare in a close-stopped vessel for an hour. When cold, place all together in a crust, add a glass of port wine, and bake in a gentle oven for two hours. The meat of a leveret should be merely tossed in butter before being made into a pie, some strong beef gravy being added.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 51 KIDNEY PIE. Have a very fresh calfs kidney, with a good deal of the fat about it. Cut it into slices, and. toss it quickly over a clear fire, but do not let the gravy be drawn. Beat some of the fat in a mortar, together with an equal weight of cold tongue, ham, or Bologna sausage, season well with spices, and make into forcemeat balls, with eggs, etc. Lay the meat in the dish or crust; add the forcemeat, a few hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and half a dozen sweet macaroons soaked in Madeira wine; sprinkle in some spices; pour in sufficient gravy. Bake for an hour. The kidney from a cold roasted loin of veal may be used, if not over-done; and oyster or sausage meat (first fried) substituted for the forcemeat. lamb’s-head pie. Take two lambs’ heads; open them, and clean them carefully, especially about the roots of the tongues; cut away the objectionable parts, but do not remove the brains. Pepper the heads, and lay them open in a dish, the cheek sides upwards; put some butter on them, and bake for an hour in a gentle oven. Take the flesh from the bones, cut the tongues and brains into slices, and when cold place all together in a dish with a rim of crust. Pour in the gravy52 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. which came from them in baking, add a little essence of anchovy, Cayenne pepper, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Cover with a lid of paste, and bake for half an hour, or until the crust is done. If pre- ferred, it may be made into a raised pie. LAMB PtE. Take a shoulder of lamb ; bone it, highly season it with spices, etc., sprinkle over it a little whitc^ sugar, roll it tight, and roast it for twenty minutes, basting ■ it with butter. Let it grow cold, cut it into slices, squeeze a lemon over it, pack it in a raised crust and bake it for an hour. When done, pour in melted • jelly of any particular flavour approved of. A few sultana raisins or grocers’ currants, soaked in biandy, are often employed in this pie. mutton pie. Commonly this is made with chops, either first tossed or stewed, or neither; it is far superior, if you take a fine loin of mutton, and cut the meat from it lengthwise, or saddle fashion; trim otf all skin, suet, sinew, and superfluous flat, season the meat with plenty of pepper, and just toss it in a hot pan of butter for five minutes. When cold, place it in a dish edged with crust; add a little salt, a glass of port wine, and pour over it a gravy made by boiling down the bones of a well-hung woodcock, grouse, or otherTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 53 feathered game; by this means the pie will be equal to a venison pasty. Cover with a lid of crust, and balce for an hour. Some epicures prefer the addition of a small quantity of Parmesan cheese; or, four or five days before making into a pie, they rub the loin of mutton with sugar, and let it soak in a mixture of equal parts of vinegar and red wine. When a raised pie is preferred, the gravy should not be poured in until after the pie is baked. OX-CHEEK PIE. Carefully clean the cheek, season it well with spices, rub it over with fresh butter, and bake it gently till quite tender ; skin the palate, and cut the meat into suitable-sized pieces; place it in a raised crust or pie-dish, add a little salt, a few forcemeat balls made with oysters, pour in a glass of Madeira, and the gravy Rendered by the meat while baking ; put on a top crust, and bake for an hour in a slow oven. An ounce of truffles may be introduced with advantage. PARTRIDGE PIE. Draw and singe the birds, cut off their feet and pinions, and either truss and lard them, or split them open at the back, and after broiling them a little, line them with a forcemeat of game, or thin slices of bacon fat; or, instead of this, they may bo stewed for a54 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. time in very good game gravy until the birds are quite tender. Well-season them, and put all to- gether in a raised crust, or in a pie-dish with a rim of paste ; cover with a lid of the same, and bake for an hour. Some cooks are in the habit of laying a veal cutlet under the bmls, and also add hard-boiled eggs, forcemeat, etc. When truffles are employed, this pie is called a pate a la Perigueux, and the cele- brated Terrines cle Nerac are simply partridge pies made without paste, in covered dishes, lined with forcemeat, etc. PATE DE PITHIVIERS. This is a pasty composed of either larks, thrushes, snipes, plovers, or such like birds ; each should be filled with a very delicate forcemeat, and wrapped in a very thin slice of bacon fat. Season them highly, and put them into a raised pie with the usual addi- tion of forcemeat and bacon fat. Bake for two hours in a moderately-heated oven, and serve cold. PERIGORD PIE. This is made of different kinds of feathered game, mixed together. The birds should be larded, and interspersed with a high-flavoured forcemeat. This pie requires much baking, and should he enveloped in buttered, paper, unless the heat of the oven can be conveniently regulated.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 55 PHEASANT PIE. Prepare your bird by singeing, drawing, etc. Ex- tract the gall from the liver; pound tbe latter in a mortar, together with the meat from the breast of a partridge, two good teaspoonfuls of Bengal chutney, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter. Put this inside the pheasant, baste it with butter, and roast it for a quarter of an hour before a quick fire. Let it grow cold, sprinkle it with salt, cut it up, add some pepper, place it in a dish edged with paste, and pour over it a little gravy made by boiling down the remainder of the partridge. Cover with a crust, and bake for an hour. Note: when gravy is recom- mended, it should not be compounded at random; a very strong decoction of meat, simply seasoned with pepper and salt, is all that is wanted ; any vegetables boiled with it would only cause the pie soon to turn sour, and besides give it a brothy taste. The pheasant may be boned and larded, if preferred, and i made into a raised pie. PIC-NIC PIE. Make some rich light pie-crust, roll it out as for a roley-poley pudding. Tako some very tender rump, steak, carefully cut of an uniform thickness, removeTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 5G every particle of sinew, skin, and fat; pepper it well, dip it into either olive oil or liquid butter, and broil it for five minutes over a clear fire, turning it once; lay it upon the paste, which should he some- what larger than the steak; add a little salt, and strew over it either some chopped mushrooms or sliced truffles. Make it into a roll, securely fastening the edges with white of egg; glaze it with some of the same, and hake it for an hour. It does not signify whether the steak is in one piece or not, so long as it quite covers the middle of the paste. Slices cut as steaks from a tender leg of mutton may he treated in the same way. PIGEON PIE. After being plucked, cleaned, and drawn, the feet, necks, and pinions should be removed; the pigeons may either be stewed till tender and put whole into a pie, together with the liquor they were boiled down in, or they may he rubbed over with butter, then slightly broiled, and each cut into quarters ; or the birds may be seasoned, and laid in a dish with their breasts downwards upon a fine rump-steak. Some cooks put a forcemeat ball into each, or a piece of anchovy butter, or pepper them inside, and place a thin slice of bacon fat in each, and strew hard-boiled yolks of eggs between them. A timbale of pigeons is made by lining a well-tinned stewpan with a raised paste, then putting57 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. in the birds, adding a lid of crust, and baking it slowly for two hours; let it grow cold in the tim- bale ; when wanted, warm it slightly, and turn it out. French cooks mostly mince the meat which is added to a pigeon pie. Sweetbreads are an excellent addition. PORK PIES. A loin of young pork, sliced, deprived of its rind, and some of the fat removed, makes a very good pie, if properly seasoned. It may be baked in a dish with a top and sides of crust; but pork pies generally are made in a raised form ; for this the meat should be boned, and the fat and lean equally distributed, and packed close, no gravy being added : these pies require to be well baked. By way of variety, half the pork may be made into sausage-meat, adding a little dried sage, and enveloping morsels of it in thin fillets of the remainder of the pork. For family use, delicious pies are made by frying a porker’s liver in butter, and when cold pounding it in a mortar, to- gether with a corresponding weight of bacon fat, and some spices; blanch the brains of the porker, and slice them, as well as the two kidneys and some of the lean meat. Season all well. Lay the forcemeat of liver inside a raised crust, put in the meat and one or two bruised bay leaves; add a lid of crust, and bake it for two or three hours, according to size.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 58 RABBIT PIE. Tliis is considered such an English dish that on the Continent it goes by the name Pale anglais. Take the best joints of a couple of rabbits, cut them into pieces; season them highly, and toss them in butter till they are half done. Make a forcemeat with the livers and a like weight of bacon fat, a little anchovy- butter, or a few oysters; season with sliced lemon rind, etc. Make it up as a timbale—that is, in a stewpan lined with crust, or in an ordinary dish ; if in the latter way, pour in some strong gravy. Bake for an hour and a half. A large Ostend rabbit may be boned and larded with ham ; or, when rabbits are plentiful, slices may be cut from the whole length of their backs, and wrapped round rolls of sausage meat, and packed in a raised must. SAUSAGE PIE. Skin some Lyons or Bologna sausage ; cut it into tolerably thin slices; divide these into quarters. Cover a pie-dish or stewpan with paste; lay in the sausage, interspersing it with peppered collops of veal or sweetbreads, and lumps of fresh sausage-meat, spiced, but not salted. If this sausage-meat can con- veniently be made with the flesh of game or poultry, it is a great improvement. Pork cutlets may be59 THE BEEAKFAST BOOK. employed in place of veal. Put on a lid of paste, and bake in a slow oven for two hours, if a large pie. SHALL PATTIES. The principal thing to be observed in making small patties is that the paste be exceedingly good; very little meat should be put in them, or they will be heavy. The game, meat, or poultry employed must be first pounded to a paste, or simply minced fine. Chopped mushrooms and truffles may be added. Cocks-combs, foies gras, ham, tongue, sausage, veal kidney, forcemeats of various kinds, caviare, sweet- breads, etc., are suitable for small patties. Imme- diately before baking your petits pates, brush over the tops with egg. Twenty minutes will bake them. STRASBOURG PIE. Make a rich forcemeat with fat and lean pork, truffles, spices, etc. Get ready a raised crust, line it with thin slices of bacon fat, upon which spread a layer of forcemeat. In the middle place two very fat goose-livers, seasoned; add more truffles and forcemeat, finish with sliced bacon fat, a bruised laurel leaf, and a lid of crust. Fasten it very well where the paste joins. Bake it for two hours in a moderately hot oven.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 60 SWEETBREAD PIE. Blanch two calves’ sweetbreads, pepper them, and toss them in butter for five minutes; add half their weight of bearded oysters, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the yolks of some hard-boiled eggs dipped into essence of anchovy, and peppered. Place all together in a dish with an edge of crust, pour in a little gravy and Madeira wine. Cover Avith a top of crust, and hake for an hour. TERRINE OF HARE. Bone a fine hare, save the prime parts, and make a mince of the remainder, adding the blood, the liver, a clove of garlic, and a pound of lean pork; season with salt, cloves, and pepper. Line a covered pie- dish with thinly-sliced bacon fat, put in part of the mince, a few sliced truffles, the meat of the hare, and the rest of the mince; pour in a glass of brandy, place two 'or three bay-leaves on the top, and some more slices of bacon fat. Hermetically fasten on the cover of the terrine by luting it with a little paste, and bake slowly for three hours. Serve cold. • TURKEY PIE. Pick, singe, and draw the bird ; open it down the back; bone, and lard it with tongue or ham. Pub it61 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. over with butter, and bake it a little in a brisk oven. Make a forcemeat of the liver with veal, or the white meat of poultry, oysters, spices, marrow, mushroom powder, etc. When cold, cut up the turkey, and either make it into a raised pie, surrounded with forcemeat and thin slices of bacon fat, or with these two ingredients put it into a terrine without the addi- tion of paste. A few blanched Spanish chesnuts may be employed in this pie. If made into an ordinary pie, boil down the bones and giblets until there is just enough gravy to pour into the dish. The turkey may be kept whole if preferred, and the meat from the breasts of pullets, or the backs of rabbits, used to fill up with. The yolks of hard-boiled eggs may be employed at discretion. A raised pie requires to be baked two hours, an ordinary pie one hour. VEAL PIE. Some cooks advocate stewing the meat before it is made into a pie, but if the veal is fresh killed, and the meat cut from across the loin longitudinally, it can- not fail to be tender. First toss it quickly in butter, and either cut it into small collops, and roll them round portions of forcemeat, composed of pounded ham, "s eal fat, etc., and make it into a raised pie, or make it into an ordinary pie, with gravy and seasoning, and half an ounce of unpressed caviare to each pound of veal. Without the latter, or forcemeat, it is some-THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 02 times served as a sweet pie, by employing raisins, grocers’ currants, candied fruit, etc., in its composi- tion. A savoury veal pie is improved by a few stoned olives and the yolks of some hard-boiled eggs. It should be highly seasoned with red and white pepper, nutmeg, etc. Bake according to size. VENISOX PIE. Cut your meat into moderately small pieces; boil down the bones to make gravy. Season the meat, and properly distribute the fat and the lean in a dish edged with crust. Pack the venison pretty close, cover with a lid of crust, and bake slowly for four hours. If preferred, the venison may be first jugged for two or three hours, to make it tender, and after- wards put into a raised pie. WOODCOCK PIE. Pick clean and singe your birds; take out the trail, make it into a forcemeat with the livers, some bacon fat, etc. Split open the woodcocks at the backs, rub butter upon them, dust them plentifully with pepper, and broil them a little over a clear fire. When cold, lard them and make them into a raised pie in the usual way. Snipes similarly treated are excellent.THE BEEAKFAST BOOK. 63 YORKSHIRE PIE. Bone a large goose, a turkey, and a conple of ducks, first splitting them open at tlie backs. Boil down an old hare with plenty of spices, until the bones fall freely from out of the flesh. Make it with other things into a rich forcemeat; add it to the birds, and place them inside a thick, raised crust ; fill up at the sides with two or three braces of partridges or woodcocks, cover it perfectly close, and bake it four hours. When done, pour in the hare gravy and some fresh butter, just molted, fasten up the hole, and keep it for at least a week before cutting it. Of course this pie can be modified by using a duck, a fowl, and a partridge, instead of the first-mentioned birds, and filling up with hard eggs, flat sausages, ham balls, or small birds, etc. In all cases the breasts of the birds should be placed up- wards.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. GT CHAPTER V. Savoury Puddings, Sausages, and Dishes requiring time to PREPARE THEM. SAVOURY PUDDINGS. By these we do not mean .puddings made with a crust, such as are served as entremets at a dinner, but small spiced puddings, which come under the denomi- nation of hors d'oeuvres, or by-dishes suitable for break- fasts, and other light repasts. In place of paste they are enclosed in skins, and are broiled or tossed, as fancy dictates. The skin from the necks of geese and turkeys, when left in lengths sufficient for the purpose, are very convenient when the regular skins cannot be procured from the butchers. DEVONSHIRE WHITE PUDDINGS. Take a pound of shred pork fat, a quarter of a pound of cleaned currants, half a pound of grated bread, half a pint of clotted cream, a quarter of a pound ofTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 65 loaf sugar, and the yolks of six and the whites of two raw eggs. Mix these ingredients well together, fill the skins, and boil them for half an hour. Eoast, fry, toss, or broil them, as wanted. Plainer puddings are composed of herbs, swelled groats, boiled onions, or leeks, suet, or chopped fat. .Very rich puddings may be made with beef marrow, blanched almonds, cream, eggs, spices, sugar, and sweet wine. FRENCH WHITE HJDDINGS. Take equal parts of the white meat of cold fowl, bread-crumbs, boiled onions, and cream. Pound the meat to a paste, season it well, add the other ingre- dients, mix all together with the yolks of two raw eggs; put it into skins, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. Grill them in paper cases, or toss them in butter, before serving. When cream cannot be procured use milk. GAME PUDDINGS. Season and beat to a paste the flesh and liver of a cold roasted pheasant or hare. Make a little strong gravy by boiling down the bones, etc. Mix sufficient bread-crumbs in this, add the meat, with a third its weight of scraped veal fat. Make it of the requisite consistency with fresh raw eggs, and either put it F66 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. into skins, or roll portions of it in flour, and poach them in boiling water. When cold, dip them suc- cessively in butter and bread-crumbs, and broil or fry them brown. PUDDINGS A LA RICHELIEU. These are made similarly to the preceding, with the exception that the flesh of either poultry or game may be used, and mashed potatoes and buttei are substituted for the bread-crumbs and gravy. Black puddings are not bad in their way, but they are not among the things we would make to set before our friends. STRASBOURG PUDDINGS. Chop up the livers of two fat geese, add an equal weight of pork fat, minced very fine, and four onions boiled in gravy; sprinkle in a little dried sage, add pepper and salt, mix together with bread-crumbs and cream; put it into skins, and treat in the usual way. Hog’s or calf’s liver, first boiled, and a third of bacon fat added, may be employed as above, and rice boiled in milk may take the place of bread crumbs.07 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. DRIED SAUSAGES. BOLOGNA SAUSAGES. Take of beef suet, bacon, beef, pork, and veal, of each half a pound; cbop all fine; add some shred sage, marjoram, and penny-royal; season highly with pepper and salt. Fill it into large skins. 1 rick them with a needle, boil for an hour, and hang to dry. CERYELAS, OR SMOKED SAUSAGE. Chop together the lean of pork and bacon fat, letting the latter predominate one-fourth. Season it with pepper, salt, coriander, allspice, and nutmeg. Put it into skins, make them into lengths, -smoke them for three days, then boil them in a liquor sea- soned with herbs, vinegar, etc., and either serve cold upon a napkin, or slice and toss them in butter. LYONS SAUSAGE. One pound of beef, two pounds each of fat bacon and fresh pork; chop the beef and pork very fine and merely cut up the bacon in square pieces. Season with coarse pepper and saltpetre. Put it into skins tie them in lengths, and put them into a pan • sprinkle them with saltpetre, and let them remain a68 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. week; then smoke them for three or four days, and afterwards steep them for forty-eight hours in red wine, with the addition of sage, thyme, and hay leaves. Smoke them again, and keep them wrapped in paper till wanted. ITALIAN SAUSAGE. Take the leg and shoulder of a young porker, remove the fat and rind, and with a knife scrape the lean into a paste. Add half its weight of bacon fat, roughly cut up; season with pepper, cloves, mace, and nutmeg. Stuff the mixture into skins, and smother them in pounded saltpetre for eight days. Smoke them till sufficiently dry, and afterwards rub them with olive oil and the ashes from burnt vine branches. SPANISH SAUSAGE. Roughly cut up equal parts of the fat and lean of a full-grown hog. Beat together some salpiunella, pi- mienta, or Spanish red pepper, cayenne, a clove or two of garlic, and a small quantity of powdered turmeric. Soak the whole in half Malaga wine and strong vinegar for a week; put the mixture into large ox skins, and keep them in a dry place. Toss slices in olive’ oil, and serve, garnished with pickled green capsicums.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 69 FRESH SAUSAGES, ETC. MUTTON SAUSAGES. Beat together in a mortar a pound of the lean of tender raw mutton, half a pound of veal fat, three anchovies, four ounces of bread, two dozen fresh oysters, bearded, two boiled onions, two raw eggs, and plenty of seasoning. Moisten with the oyster liquor and a little lemon-juice. Put it into small shins, and prick them with a needle before frying them. PORK OR BEEF SAUSAGES. For ordinary sausages Three pounds of fat and two pounds of lean pork, well-seasoned and finely chopped; add half a pound of bread-crumbs, soaked in milk. If intended to be made into flat sausages, mix with the beaten yolks of eggs. For Oxford sausages, add finely-shred herbs, according to taste. The above sausage-meat will keep well for a week or ten days, if properly seasoned. Excellent beef sausages are made by mincing equal parts of fat and lean of tender beef, with or without the addition of bacon fat. Season well with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of shred shalot and parsley. A good bit of bread, soaked in Rhine wine, makes the sausage lighter.70 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. TRUFFLE SAUSAGES. To one pound of lean pork add half a pound of bacon fat and three ounces of fresh truffles; season ■with salt and spices; chop it fine; mix with it a glass of champagne or some lemon-juice, and proceed as with other sausages. VEAL SAUSAGES. Take one pound each of lean veal and bacon fat, four anchovies, the hard-boiled yolks of four eggs, a little powdered sage, pepper, salt, and the juice of a Seville orange. Pound all in a mortar, and put into skins. VENISON OR GAME SAUSAGES. Yenison, hare, pheasant, or any kind of game is suitable. Take two pounds of the raw flesh, carefully remove every particle of skin, sinew, etc., and mince the meat with half its weight of very sound bacon fat. Season it well with salt and pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a glass of brandy. Make them up in skins, or with the addition of egg, roll them in flour, and fry them, first dipping them into butter and bread crumbs. Capital sausages are made with the flesh of rabbits, kid, goose, or turkey.71 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. CAKE OF VEAL OR rOULTRY. Cut rather thin slices of the uncooked meat of fowl, rabbit, veal, or turkey; add a third of cold ham. Line a plain mould or tin with well-buttered paper, season the meat with white and red pepper, and shred lemon peel; lay it in your mould, strewing amongst it minced hard-boiled eggs; mix in two raw eggs, beaten up in a glass of brandy. Cover with buttered paper, and bake slowly for three hours, Turn it into a dish, and when cold decorate it with jelly. calf’s liver cake. Pound in a mortar equal quantities of bacon fat and fresh calf s liver; add a little veal fat and cold ham; season with pepper. Intersperse among it lumps of cold tongue and small mushrooms; add eight raw eggs; mix well together and put it into a stewpan lined with slices of bacon fat. Lay some of the same on the top of the cake, cover with the lid of the stewpan, and bake for three hours. Turn it out when cold by slightly heating the outside of the mould. Glaze the cake, and decorate it with crusts ornamented with jelly. Lamb’s liver done in this manner is very good.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 72 GALANTINES. Capon, duck, goose, hare, lamb, sucking-pig, partridge, pheasant, rabbit, salmon, turkey, veal, venison, and Welsh mutton, are among the things chiefly made into galantines. Much the same mode of operation is pursued in regard to each. The piece of meat is to be carefully boned, seasoned inside, and filled with forcemeat, pieces of tongue, sausage, game, bacon fat, truffles, etc., put in layers. Sew it up, try to make it retain its original form, fasten it securely in a cloth, and do it for some hours in a rich consomme. Let it grow cold in the liquor, which should subsequently bo reduced, clarified, and in the form of jelly used as a decoration to the galan- tine. Serve it upon a white napkin. The two shoulders of Welsh mutton should be employed to make a galantine; either the breast or shoulder of veal also answers for the same purpose. The heads of sucking-pigs, hares, and rabbits, should not be boned. Hard-boiled yolks of eggs, oysters, blanched sweet almonds, chesnuts, pistachio nuts, foies gras, veal fat, garlic, bay leaves, lemon-juice and rind, chopped pickles, anchovies, etc., enter into the com- position of the stuffing. When well executed, a galantine is a very handsome dish for any kind of collation. It is invariably served cold. Easped bread may be used to mask it with if you cannot glaze it.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 73 GAME CAKE. Take an undressed hare, or any other kind of game, cut the flesh from the hones, add to it the same weight of fresh calfs liver, ham, and bacon fat. Pound all in a mortar, together with the liver of the game; season it with spices, salt, and a little shalot, and a glass of rum. Mix it with half-a-dozen fresh raw eggs, and if it is a hare add the blood. Line a mould with slices of bacon fat; put in alternate layers of game paste and sliced truffles; cover with more bacon fat; place some thick paper on the top, and bake it for three hours. Let it grow cold in the mould, and slightly warm it to turn it out. HAM CAKE. Take cold boiled ham, cut up equal parts of the fat and lean; season well with spice; beat it to a paste in a mortar; add one-fourth of fresh butter, put it into a mould, and bake it for twenty minutes ; let it become cold, and turn it out when wanted, first dipping the mould for a few moments into boil- ing water. A fresh egg or two may be added if ap- proved of. Tongue cake or cold beef cake is made in the same manner. If possible it should be glazed with jelly when served.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 74 ITALIAN CHEESE. Chop up the liver of a young porker with two thirds the same weight of bacon fat and one-third of fresh fat pork, season it with spices and shred sage, mix with it four raw eggs, and put it into a stewpan lined with bacon fat; place some of the latter upon the top, cover it close with the lid, and hake it for three hours. Turn it out to serve cold. Glaze it, and decorate it with jelly. MEAT, GAME, ETC., IN JELLY. For a stylish breakfast nothing can be prettier than things served en aspic or in jelly. In this way may be treated small birds, pigeons, partridges, sweet- breads, chickens, lamb-cutlets, fillets of game, or the white meat of poultry, small collops of veal, poached eggs, etc. Let any of the above be nicely dressed and grown cold. Take a mould, pour into it a little melted jelly, and when this is firm place in your birds, fillets, or cutlets, which have been previously tossed in butter. Arrange them carefully, with a view to their looking well when reversed upon a dish. Fill the mould with more dissolved jelly, and when quite set immerse the mould for a few moments in boiling water, and turn the jelly upon a dish. Kernark: the birds should be placed in the mould withTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 75 their breast downwards, so as to be in the right position when turned out. Decorate with pieces of ornamental jelly, etc. PIC-HIC CHEESE. Make a raised crust as for a pasty. Boil until tender half a pound of Neapolitan macaroni — twenty minutes will do it; drain, and add to it a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two ounces each of scraped Parmesan and Gruy6re cheese, and pepper and salt. Put it over a fire in a stewpan, and stir it for five minutes. When nearly cold put it into the raised crust, add a top of paste to it, and bake for half-an-hour. When done fill it up with fresh butter sufticiently melted. Serve upon a napkin folded in a dish. POULTRY, ETC., EH DAUBE. Most of the things suitable for galantines, and many others, may be done an daube. This differs from a galantine by the meat being larded upon the outer surface, and not being stuffed inside. Braise it for a considerable time; glaze it before serving, and sur- round it with large lumps of jelly. If you cannot conveniently manage the braising, you may merely roll the meat and roast it. Serve it either cn aspic or simply glazed and garnished with jelly.76 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. POULTRY ROLLED. Bone a fat fowl and a duck, season them plenti- fully with spices and salt, place them one upon the other, and let them remain for two days ; then make them into a very tight roll, and fasten it in a cloth with collaring tape. Bake it in a pan with a good deal of sweet lard, oil, or fresh butter to baste it with. W hen done take it out, but do not uncover till cold. Either serve it as it is or put it into a preserving jar, and fill it up with clarified butter. Cut it in rather thin slices when you help it. A goose and a turkey are capital rolled in this way, and if a cold boiled# tongue is enclosed inside the fowl it conduces to keep the birds, and looks ex- ceedingly well when cut up. ROASTED OR BRAISED GAME OR POULTRY. When game or poultry is purposely roasted to be served hot or cold for breakfasts, great care should be taken to have it as nicely browned as possible; and as it is upon these occasions mostly served without sauce, it should be nicely garnished with herbs or cresses. Unless when braised, poultry and game are better not stuffed. Should you require to serve any left from dinner, do not send it to table partially dis- membered, but cut it up nicely, and if but little, eke77 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. it out by placing a small slice of cold ham, tongue, sliced hard-boiled eggs, fillets of anchovies, dried sausage, or anything calculated to improve the ap- pearance of the dish as well as add to its contents. Poultry and game may be larded and braised instead of roasted, then decorated with jelly or glazed sippets. ROLLED MEAT. Whenever necessity compels us to introduce butchers’ meat cold at our breakfast table, we should prepare it beforehand Dy having it boned, rolled, and glazed, as it is then a more agreeable object than when presented in the form of a joint. The pieces most fitted for the purpose are ribs of beef, fore-quar- ter of lamb, loin of veal, leg of Welsh mutton, neck of pork, shoulder and breast of veal, loin or shoulder of mutton. These may be first larded or not. When boned, well season the meat on the inner side, and add a little game forcemeat; roll it up very tight, fasten it securely, and braise, bake, or roast it. Glaze it highly before serving.78 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. s CHAPTER VI. Collahed, Pickled, axd Potted Meat, etc. BEEF 1 LA MODE. Choose a piece of the round of veiy tender beef, lard it, and braise it in a liquor made by the addition of a calfs foot, knuckle of veal or beef bones, herbs, spices, white wine, bruised bay leaves, and a glass of brandy. Let it do slowly for six hours. Take it up. Clarify the gravy until it forms a fine jelly, and gar- nish your meat with it when cold. Some cooks elaborate this dish by stuffing the beef with a rich forcemeat, but this method is not correct. When wine cannot be bad use a little very good ale. The jelly may be coloured red with a small quantity of cochineal. An easy way of braising is to place the meat, with the necessary adjuncts, in a pot, tie it down with thick oiled paper, and place it for some hours in a moderately heated oven.79 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. BREAKFAST BEEF. Take twelve pounds of tender beef, wash it and wipe it dry, rub it with half an-ounce each of salt- petre and salprunella, and one ounce of bay salt, all finely beaten. Two hours later nib it well with half a pound of brown sugar : at the end of another two hours add more salt and bay salt. Let it lie eight- and-forty hours. Drain it, and hang it in a very dry but not warm place.* In ten days it will be ready for use. Soak it in sour beer for a few hours before dressing it. Then boil or braise it like hunter’s beef. COLLARED BEEF. Bone a good-sized piece of the flank of tender beef, remove the skin, rub it with equal parts of saltpetre, salprunella, and bay salt, half a pound of brown sugar, and a pound of common salt. Let it stay for a week, basting it daily. Wipe it, and rub it well with plenty of spices, roll it up very tight, fasten it in a cloth, and boil it for six hours. Take it up, and put it under a press until cold. COLLARED CALF’S HEAD. Have a head with the skin on, as for mock turtle soup; split it open, take out tho bones, soak it tillTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 80 pretty white; then spread over it plenty of seasoning, half a pound of shred beef marrow, two dozen bearded oysters chopped small, and some sweet herbs. Lay the ears also inside the head. Make it into a compact roll. Wrap it in a cloth, and bind it tightly with tape. Boil it for two hours, and when almost cold take it up ; tighten the binding, and keep the head in a collaring pickle made with salt water and vinegar. Slices of ham or tongue and hard-hoiled eggs may take the place of the oysters. If the head is intended to be kept for any length of time, the collaring pickle should be re-boiled at the end of every four days. COLLARED PIG’S HEAD. Procure a very plump head that has been nicely scalded. Salt it for a week, boil it for an hour, bone it, cut it in half, lay the snout end of one side towards the neck end of the other, season it well with pepper, place the ears inside, and, if you please, add the boiled flesh of an ox foot or some fresh lean pork. Fasten in a cloth, tie it tightly with tape, and boil it in a seasoned liquor till perfectly tender. When cold, unbind it, and put it under a weight, and if intended to be kept, place it in a pickle until wanted.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 81 COLLARED SUCKING PIG. Choose a very nicely-cleaned sucking pig ; bone it entirely, rub the inside with pepper, salt, and powdered herbs; roll it up as tight as possible, bind it in a cloth, tie it securely, and put it into a boiling liquor made with water, a quart of vinegar, a hand- ful of salt, some cloves, mace, pepper-corns, and savoury herbs. Boil softly till tender. Take it out, and when nearly cold tighten the bandage; place the pig in a pan, and pour over it the cold liquor in which it was boiled. Some housekeepers put the pig into a sort of caudle made of oatmeal, white wine, and spice, but this proceeding is not absolutely necessary. COLLARED VEAL. Bone a largo fat breast of veal; rub it over with egg, and strew upon it spices, salt, shred herbs, lemon peel, and an anchovy, or small slices of pickled tongue or ham. Add likewise, if convenient, the meat from a boiled pair of calves’ feet. Boll it very tight in^ cloth, and tie it securely with tape. Sim- mer it for three hours in salt and water. When cold put it into a pickle of vinegar, and water enough to cover it. GTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 82 COLLARED VENISON. Take the bone, sinew, and skin from part of tbe side of venison ; ^ird it with, fine bacon fat; season it; tie it with collaring tape when rolled tightly. Put it into a large deep pan, with some biuised bay leaves and fresh butter ; cover the pan with a coarse paste, and bake it for five hours. Drain it, and place it in a large preserving-pot or wide-mouthed jar. Cover it with fresh clarified butter, and keep it close stopped. Turn it out of the pot to serve, and deco- rate it with branches of bay leaves or holly, etc. FRENCH BCEUF ECARLATE. Take part of the leg of beef; bone it, lard it, and rub it with finely-powdered spices, salt, and salt- petre. Put it into a pan with some bruised juniper- berries, thyme, and a clove of garlic. Cover it down close, and let it remain six days; turn it, and leave it for six days longer. Drain it; fasten it in a cloth; put it into boiling water well seasoned with herbs, etc Let it simmer for four hours. Allow it to grow cold in the liquor. Unbind it, and serve upon a damask napkin. Decorate it with branches of herbs, etc. You may glaze it or not, according to fancy.83 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. GOOSE PRESERVED AS AT BAYONNE. From some very fat geese cut the thighs and wings, retaining upon them nearly all the flesh from the bodies of the geese. Remove*the principal part of the bone. Rub the meat with salt and saltpetre, and sprinkle it with shred hay leaves, thyme, etc. Leave it thus for a day and night. Melt down the apron fat of the geese ; strain it. Dip the pieces of goose into water to remove the brine, etc., wipe them quite dry, put them into the fat, and simmer them slowly until they are quite tender. Drain them, and when cold pack them in pots, and pour over them the goose fat, which should be merely warm enough to run. Keep them covered in a cool place until wanted. HAMS AND BACON. French cooks, after drawing the juice from the meat, place it in a brine made with salt, saltpetre, and wine lees and water in equal parts, a good deal of savoury herbs being first infused in the liquor. "When the hams have remained a month in this, they are drained, smoked, and subsequently rubbed over with vinegar and wine. English housekeepers fre- quently prefer an admixture of spices with the pickle, and likewise employ strong beer, oak chips, juniper-84 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. berries, sugar or treacle, sweet-wort, or other'ingre- dients ; but the French method is the best. Hams may be made from legs of mutton, veal, or beef; these should be properly trimmed and treated as pork hams, observing that for mutton and veal a fort- night in the pickle is sufficient. Smoke them and boil them before they are put away for keeping. Cut them in rashers, as you would an ordinary ham, and fry, toss, or broil. I shall not give any instructions about the curing of bacon. The denizens of towns invariably purchase it ready dried, and dwellers in the country mostly adhere to their own family re- cipes. J should observe that foi foicemeat, larding, braising, etc., the bacon employed should have had no saltpetre used in its curing, or the other meat will be made hard and red by it. HAMB0URG OR DUTCH BEEF. Remove all the fat, and rub the beef with sugar, salt, and saltpetre ; turn it daily for twelve or fifteen days ; drain and wipe it, enclose it in a cloth, press it, and smoke it in the fumes of damped sweet hay for three days. AY hen ready it may be used as a relish, cut in rashers and broiled, or tossed in butter. If dressed whole, boil it for two hours, wrapped m a cloth. Spices may be added to the pickle if ap- proved of.85 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. hunter’s beef. Rub into a well-hung round of beef, first boned, salt, saltpetre, spices, and sugar, in the proportion of an ounce and a half each of saltpetre and sugar, half an ounce of spice, and four ounces of common salt, to each dozen pounds of meat. Baste and turn it in the liquor for three weeks. Before dressing it wash it in clean water. Bind it in a cloth, put it into a baking-dish with half a pint of wine or strong ale at the bottom of the dish; throw a good deal of shred suet over the meat, cover it with a coarse paste, and bake it for six hours. Do not remove the paste, etc., until the beef is cold. Serve decorated with parsley, with a white napkin under it. Beef prepared thus will keep good for a considerable time. IMITATED boar’s HEAD. Have the head of a hog cut off nearly half-way down to the shoulders, so as to retain a good part of the neck. Bone it carefully, sprinkle it, as well as the meat from the bones, with saltpetre; put it into a pan with bruised laurel-leaves, sage, cloves, thyme, crushed pepper, juniper-berries, and coriander seeds. Cover it„ close, and let it remain a week; drain it, and stuff it with the loose flesh, slices of ham, tongue, truffles, fat and lean pork, seasoned like the head;THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 86 tie it tight in a cloth, simmer it for six hours in a liquor made rich with the bones, savoury herbs, etc. Let it become cold in this, then remove the covering, and serve the head upon a white napkin, folded in the dish. Garnish it with branches of holly, bay, 01 herbs. You must endeavour to keep the head as much as possible in its original form. MARBLED VEAL. Take some cold roasted fillet of veal, season it v illi spices, and beat it in a mortar. Skin a cold diied tongue, cut it up, and pound it to a paste, adding to it nearly its weight of fresh butter; put some of the veal into pots, then strew in lumps of the pounded tongue, put in another layer of veal, and again more tongue; press it down, and pour clarified buttei on the top. This cuts very prettily, like veined marble. The dressed white meat of either fowl, rabbit, or turkey, will answer for the purpose as well as veal. MOCK BRAWX. Have a piece of the belly of pork of the size you require. Take also the head; sprinkle them well with salt and saltpetre, and let them lie four or five days. Open the head, boil it till tender, bone it, and cut up the meat. Lay the piece of pork upon a board, spread upon it the superior parts of two oxTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 87 feet, add the boiled meat of the head, roll it up as tight as possible, enclose it in a sheet of tin, boil it for five hours, stand it on one end to drain, and put a heavy weight inside the tin, at the other end, to press it down firm. Next day unbind it, and keep it in water and vinegar till wanted. PICKLED BRISKET. Take some brisket of beef that has been salted and property boiled, cut it into square pieces, and when quite cold put it into a deep dish with some bruised bay leaves, and pour upon it plenty of vinegar, spiced according to taste. Let it remain a fortnight. To serve it, cut it into slices rather thicker than rashers of bacon, and toss them in a pan of hot butter. PICKLED GOOSE OR DUCK. Pluck and singe the bird, put it for five minutes into boiling water; take it out, wipe it dry, pepper it highly inside, and put it into a large jar; fill it up with equal quantities of red wine and vinegar strongly spiced; tie it down, stand it inside a pot of ■water, and simmer it gently until done. “While still hot, pour some melted beeswax on the top, and keep it in a cool place.88 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. PICKLED OX PALATES. Simmer ox palates for four hours in a liquor sea- soned with salt and spices; take them up, pack them in jars, strew spices upon them, and pour over them equal quantities of white wine and strong vinegar ; add a few bruised bay leaves, and cover close. Cocks’ combs also are excellent pickled, but require less dressing than the ox palates. PICKLED PARTRIDGES OR PIGEONS. Bone them, lard them with ham or tongue on the inner side, rub plenty of spices into them ; trass them in what fashion you please. Plunge them for two or three minutes into boiling water; drain and dry them. Boil together equal quantities of Madeira wine and vinegar, with some pepper, nutmeg, and bruised bay leaves. Put in the birds, simmer them for twenty minutes; take them up, boil and skim the pickle a little longer, and when all is cold put it together in stone jars; cover them down securely. PICKLED THRUSHES OR SNIPES. Carefully pluck the birds, cut off the heads and feet, and roast or bake them, but do not baste them.89 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. Put them into pickle-jars with some pepper and shred lemon peel; add plenty of white wine vinegar, cover them well down, and keep in a cool place. PICKLED VEAL OR TURKEY. Take either a fine piece of leg of veal or a large turkey, hone it, and bind it tightly in a cloth. Boil together a quart each of vinegar, white wine, and water, add a tablespoonful of salt. After skimming this liquor, put in the veal or turkey; let it simmer gently for an hour and a half; take it up, reduce and skim the pickle, and when cold pour it over the meat, which should not be taken out of the cloth till required for the table. Garnish with fennel branches. Serve a cold sauce of vinegar, sugar, Cayenne pepper, and olive oil apart. This is an admirable imitation of pickled sturgeon. PORK CHEESE. Boil a well-cleaned porker’s head that has been previously pickled. When done, bone it, cut it up small, and immediately put it into a buttered mould. Place a weight upon it, and turn it out when wanted. Garnish with parsley leaves. Remark: the head should have been scalded, and not singed, for this purpose.90 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. POTTED BEEF. Cut two pounds of lean beef in slices, rub them with cocbineal, salt, pepper, and put them together for four-and-twenty hours. Bake them with vinegar or ale, enough to cover them. Drain them, and when cold, beat them in a mortar; add a pound of fresh butter, and seasoning to taste. Put the paste into pots, place them in the oven until quite hot, with- draw them, and when cold cover the tops with clari- fied butter. POTTED BIRDS. Woodcocks, partridges, ortolans, grouse, pigeons, quails, and small birds, are potted in much the same manner. Pluck them very carefully, singe and draw them, wipe them quite dry inside, but do not wash them. Season them, put butter to them, and bake them. When done, drain them, and next day pack them in pots and pour clarified butter over them. The heads of moor-game should not be concealed under the butter. The pinions and feet should be removed from pigeons and partridges, and the beaks of woodcocks should be skewered through the thighs, one leg being first drawn through the other. The legs of grouse, larks, and small birds are to be arranged in like manner. The larger birds may be cut up so as to pack the closer, and save butter.91 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. POTTED CHEESE. Pound four ounces of rich Cheshire cheese with two ounces of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of powdered loaf sugar, a hit of mace, and a glass of white wine. Press it into a deep pot, and keep it close covered. POTTED COLD BOILED BEEF. Separate it from skin and muscle, pound it in a mortar, together with a few honed anchovies and sufficient fresh butter; spice it according to taste, and finish in the usual way. Kemark : many cooks, after putting the meat-paste into pots, place the latter for a few minutes in a hot oven, for the pin-pose of condensing the meat as much as possible, and thereby excluding the air. POTTED GAME OR POULTRY. Take the cold remains of game, poultry, or rabbits, divest the meat of bone, skin, etc., season it with salt and plenty of Cayenne pepper, pound it in a mortar, together with an equal quantity of scraped cold bacon fat and a little anchovy. Press it well down in pots, and pour clarified butter over. Keep in a cool place.92 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. POTTED HARE. Cut up a well-hung hare, pack it in a deep dish, with the liver, and plenty of very fresh butter; tie it down with oiled paper, and bake it till tender. Drain it, and when cold pick the meat from the hones, skin, and sinew; season it highly, and beat it to a paste, adding the cold water that you have taken off the gravy from the hare. Put it into pots, press it down well, pour clarified butter upon the tops, and tie down tight. POTTED RABBITS. Take the best parts of some full-grown rabbits, such as the haunches and loins ; remove the superfluous bone, rub the meat well in a mixture of spices, pack it in a dish, put in plenty of sweet lard, and bake slowly for two hours. Take the pieces of rabbit out of the lard, drain them, and when cold put them into pots, and cover them with butter that has been well clarified. POTTED TONGUE. Take a fine ox tongue, rub it with a quarter of a pound of moist sugar and an ounce of saltpetre ; let it remain for four or five days ; boil it till tender in a liquor enriched with wine, spices, bruised bay leaves,THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 93 etc. Skin it and cut it up; pound it in a mortar together with a pound of fresh butter, add pepper, nutmeg and mace. Put it into pots, pour clarified butter on the tops, and tie down close. A dried tongue first boiled, or cold ham, may be potted in this manner. POTTED VENISON'. Eub the venison with vinegar. An hour after wipe it, and rub it with port wine; season it with salt and spices. Put it into a pie-dish with a pound of fresh butter and a pint of port, cover it with a coarse paste or stout oiled paper, and bake it well. If a large piece it should remain in the oven for some hours. Drain it, let it grow cold, extract the sinews, bone, etc., beat the meat in a marble mortar, together with the butter skimmed off the gravy that was rendered in baking, press it down in pots, add a top layer of clarified butter, and tie it close for keeping. PRESERVED RABBITS. Take some young rabbits, bone them, lard them inside with bacon fat, ham, or tongue; season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Make them into I'olls, tie them tightly, pack them in a stewpan with herbs, spices, a little garlic, and enough olive oil to cover them. Do them gentlv for an hour. Let them be-THE BKEAKFAST BOOK. 94 come cold, cut them into thick fillets, put them into pots, and cover them with fresh oil. Tie skins over them, and they will keep well for a length of time. I SMOKED GOOSE. Open a fine fat goose down the hack, wipe it diy, wash it well with vinegar, then rub in half a pound each of brown sugar and salt and an ounce of salt- petre ; rub it well, and baste and turn it regularly for a fortnight. Drain it, sew it in a piece of muslin, and smoke it till dry. Cut it in slices. This is very relishing devilled for breakfast. TO CURE A TONGUE. A French tongue a Vecarlate is done thus : ipe the tongue quite dry, then trim off part of the root; sprinkle it with two ounces of saltpetre, put it into a pan with thyme, peppercorns, bay leaves, savoury herbs, etc.; boil two handfuls of salt in enough water to cover the tongue ; when this brine is cold pour it over and let it lie six days. Blanch the tongue, and dress it in a flavoured liquor for two hours. Do not take it out till cold. When tongues are to be smoked add half a pound of brown sugar to the salt, and use no water with the pickle. Tongues are frequently enclosed within ox-guts before they are cured. Pigs’, sheep’s, or calves’ tongues may be salted in the same manner.95 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. VEXIS0X BEEF. Take six pounds of tender beef, cut it up, rub into it four ounces of brown sugar, and one of powdered saltpetre. Let it lie two days. Wipe it dry, and put it to soak for twenty-four hours in equal parts of red wine and vinegar. Drain it well and bake it, with the addition of a good deal of fresh butter, until the meat is perfectly tender. Take it up, and when cold beat it to a paste in a mortar, using with it the cold butter from the dish in which it was baked. Add pounded cloves, cayenne, and black pepper. Place it in pots in the usual way.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 90 CHAPTER VII. Fish. No kind of comestible is more deservedly popular for the breakfast-table than fish, whether fresh or in a state of preservation. It is known to be easy of di- gestion, yet nourishing; quickly cooked, relishing, capable of being prepared in a greater number of ways than even poultry cr game ; and the better sorts, such as turbot, soles, salmon, lobsters, etc., are in season nearly the whole year round. The only dis- advantage attending it is, that the necessary quantity of fresh fish cannot always with certainty be obtained ; but as a set off against this we can generally procure some kinds dried, smoked, or kippered, and when the supply of fresh fish is abundant we can ourselves salt, pickle, collar, or pot it to a sufficient extent to ensure our being provided with a reserve for a considerable time. Sea fish is generally supposed to be preferable to river or pond fish, the first being esteemed higher and finer flavoured than fresh-water fish; yet, who97 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. would have the temerity to choose a piece of cod before a cutlet of sturgeon? or a herring ora mackerel, he it ever so good, to a Rhine carp or a Thames salmon ? FISH BOILED. Unless it be certain sorts of shell-fish, such as oysters, etc., and those kinds of fish which are smoked or otherwise cured, almost all fish may be boiled; but for a breakfast dish it is not so relishing dressed in this mann'er, and is rarely so served, relevees being inadmissible. When, however, it is required boiled, and intended to be introduced hot, the dish should be garnished with a few fried oysters, or some slices of the same kind of fish highly seasoned, and tossed in plenty of fresh butter. If it is to appear at table cold, some red wine should be added to the liquor in which the fish is boiled, and a cold sauce of oil, etc., served apart; thus treated, fish is said to be au bleu. Turbot, perch, bream, bass, carp, soles, and salmon are mostly cooked in this way; and, sent to table with a folded damask napkin under them, are perfectly admissible for a breakfast dish. When you have any plain boiled fish remaining from dinner, which you purpose warming up as an omelette, curry, or other way, be careful to have it broken into flakes, and boned before it has become cold, otherwise it will become so hard and unmanageable as to need re-warming before it can be made anything of. Remember, when you can get HTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 98 it, to use sea water for boiling your fisb in; but failing this, a little salt and a cupful of vinegar, added to a sufficiency of spring water, will answer tbe purpose. Fish of a slender form, other than flat-fisb, should have their tails neatly skewered in their mouths, so as to keep the bodies curled round. For garnish to boiled fish, tufts of parsley, chervil, or fennel, scraped horse-radish, pickles, or sliced lemon may be placed on the rim of the dish, outside the folded napkin. FISH BROILED. Shad, barbel, brill, plaice, Yarmouth bloaters, mackerel (first split down the back), herrings, cod- sounds (first parboiled), mullet (scored across the back), haddocks (split open), soles, sprats (skewered together in rows), whiting, dace, crimped cod (pre- viously scalded), turbot, or salmon (in slices), and eels. These are the kinds of fish usually grilled for breakfast. Simply rub them over with oil and season- ing after they have been properly cleaned, and broil them upon a well-heated gridiron over a clear fire ; or they may be enclosed in oiled paper, and served m the envelopes in which they were broiled. In either way the gridiron should be thoroughly rubbed over with fresh beef suet, and made exceedingly hot. That the fish may be made firm and the skins re- main unbroken, it is advisable to wet them with strong vinegar some time before they are dressed, then wipeTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 99 them dry and dip tliem into spiced olive oil. Tho time required for broiling varies from five to ten minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Re- mark : English cooks almost invariably dust over with flour the fish they grill. This method is not practised on the Continent; but upon the shores of the Medi- terranean, where fish may be had in perfection, it is frequently broiled between branches of bay, myrtle, or any similarly fragrant shrub; by this means the fish is prevented from scorching, and a deliciously aromatic flavour is communicated to it. Grilled fish may be served either with sauce poured over or under it. Tomato, caper, anchovy, or any such sauce may be employed. FRIED FISH. Sprats, eels, oysters, carp, lampreys, smelts, gud- geons, herrings, whitings, perch, ling, skate, or brill (in slices), soles, plaice, dabs, trout, tench, jack, etc., may be fried. I must here remark that in England everything cooked in a frying-pan is erroneously supposed to be fried; whereas we can only correctly apply the term to such things as have been first dipped into milk, butter, beaten egg, or dusted over with flour, bread crumbs, grated cheese, or crushed vermicelli. On the contrary, when the articles we dress are simply placed in a frying-pan of hot fat, without any previous addition except being seasoned they are said to bo saute, or tossed. In this mannerTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 100 wo ordinarily cook beef-steaks, mutton-chops, bacon and eggs, etc. For things that are fried, foreign cooks use either oil or a regular friture composed of equal parts of hog’s-lard, fresh veal-fat, and beef- suet melted down together, and kept in pots for use. This is greatly to be preferred to lard or butter, from the fact that lard frequently contains a large amount of water and salt, and butter a considerable propor- tion of curd, all of which conduce to make the frying-pan sticky, and thereby discolour whatever is cooked in it, which never happens when oil or friture is used. The fish you require to fry should be well cleaned and wiped dry, and if thick it should either be split open or scored across in the most fleshy parts; pass it through some flour and fiy it in plenty of friture, if you object to oil; but be parti- cular that the fat boils before putting in the fish. Bread-crumbs or batter, etc., may take the place of flour. Fried fish should always be served upon a white napkin folded at the bottom of the dish, and garnished with either sliced lemon or crisp parsley. Such as smelts, sprats, etc., should be arranged en buisson, by inserting a small basin beneath the napkin in the dish, and placing the fish to stand with their tails upwards against the support formed for them to rest against.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 101 FISH TOSSED, OR SAUTE. Fish is not often cooked whole in this manner, ■unless it he the smaller kinds, hut fillets from the following fish may he successfully saute—shad, silver eels, pike, carp, mackerel, whiting, gurnet, salmon, soles, turbot, trout, skate, conger, pressed caviare, etc. The fillets should he nicely trimmed, skinned, and in most cases seasoned and sprinkled over with finely-chopped herbs, then tossed, or as English cooks would term it, fried in oil, lard, or clarified butter. When thus dressed the fish should he well drained from the friture, and served with a gravy or a sauce apart. Slices of cold fish may he quickly warmed up in this way. FISH AU GRATIN (WITH BREAD-CRUMBS). Take some ready dressed fish of any kind, slice it, and, if possible, hone it; dip it into either oil, cream, or melted butter; season it; place it in a dish upon a piece of buttered toast, sift grated bread upon the top, and place it in an oven until sufficiently browned. Serve upon the toast with a garnish of sliced lemon. One-third the quantity of rasped Parmesan cheese added to the bread-crumbs is a material improve- ment.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 102 BAKED FISH. Several descriptions of fish eat well when baked; bnt for the breakfast table it seldom appears hot when thus treated. As for this method of serving, it should be accompanied with a forcemeat, and be baked in a deep dish with plenty of cream, oil, or white wine. Trout, carp, bream, jack, cutlets of salmon, etc., are exceedingly good done in this way. When we intend it to be eaten cold we should season it well, and simply bake it with half vinegar and half water in the dish, or baste it with olive oil, white wine, or lemon-juice. Pieces of sturgeon, shad, salmon, bass, etc., are excellent dressed thus, and will keep for some time. Serve it upon the liquor, and let there be a cold sauce apart. FISH BOASTED. Sturgeon, lobster, pike, eels, and lampreys, are occasionally introduced among the entrees at a break- fast, roasted. The three latter should be first stuffed with a forcemeat made with shrimps, oysters, etc.; then curled round with their tails in their mouths, and skewered securely to keep them in shape. Place them before the fire and baste with butter. Serve with a sauce piquante. Lobsters should be finely frothed.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 103 FISH COLLARED. After it has been cleaned, cut open the fish and bone it, whether it be salmon, carp, trout, eels, or mackerel. Cut off the head and tail, lay the fish upon its outer side flat on a board, wipe it and season it highly with a mixture of white pepper,, pounded mace, grated nutmeg, and salt; rub both inside and out, then roll it very tight; put it into a collaring- cloth, fasten it securely, and boil it in two-thirds of water and one of vinegar, to which you have added some bruised bay leaves, salt, peppercorns, and mace. If it is a large piece of salmon it requires above an hour’s simmering; but for mackerel, etc., twenty minutes will suffice. Take it up, reduce the liquor by boiling down, and when cold, having removed the cloth, pour it over the fish. Serve cold, decorated with branches of fennel. ANCHOVY SANDWICHES AND CANAl’ES. Cut some very thin slices of bread and butter, trim them properly, lay between them somo slices of boned anchovies cut as thin as possible, season them with pepper and a little lemon-juice. For canapes proceed thus: chop together a small quantity of pickled gherkins, capers, shalots, and herbs, add a little vinegar, oil, and coarse pepper. Cut some104 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. slices of bread and give them what form you please, either lozenges, rounds, stars, or triangles; fry them in olive oil till well browned, spread upon them the above seasoning, and decorate them with very thin slices of Gorgona anchovies, interspersed with hard- boiled eggs chopped very fine. Sprinkle over with oil, and serve. ANCHOVY TOAST. Fry some thin slices of bread in fresh butter; when they are nicely browned place them in a dish, lay upon them some slices of anchovy cut exceedingly thin, add some coarse pepper and a sprinkling of salad oil. BUTTERED CRAB. Pick the meat from the inside of a medium-sized crab, add to it some bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, cayenne, and jheces of butter; put it again into the shell, sprinkle it with lemon-juice, strew it over with bread-crumbs, and bake it. Serve it quite hot. BUTTERED SHRIMPS. Put some pickled shrimps into a saucepan with a good piece of fresh butter, and enough eggs beaten up in white wine to thicken with. Carefully turn them one way while cooking them, and when quite hot serve upon sippets of toast.THE BEEAEFAST BOOK. 105 BRANDADE OF COD FISH. Take some boned meat from a previously boiled salt cod, flake it, and put it with a little cream into a saucepan upon a very gentle fire; stir it continuously with a spoon in one band; bold an oil flask in tbe other, and let tbe oil fall in single drops while you keep stirring. When tbe composition forms a sort of thick cream, arrange it in a pyramid upon your dish; decorate it with sliced lemon or sippets of bread tossed in butter, and garnished with prawns or shrimps. This is a favourite dish in Provence and many parts of Spain. A bruised clove of garlic may be employed by those who like the flavour it imparts. CASSEROLE OF FISH. Nicely flake some previously-dressed fish, add to it a similar quantity each of hard-boiled eggs and mashed potatoes or bread-crumbs; season it Avith nut- meg, white pepper, and essence of anchovy. Mix it with a little cream, put it into a buttered mould, and place it for a quarter of an hour in a gentle oven. Turn out to serve. It is good cold or hot. CROQUETTES OF FISH. Eub a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a dessert-spoonful of flour; melt it over the fire withTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 106 a table-spoonful of cream ; when it comes nearly to a boil pour it over any kind of cold fish which you have, cut into small pieces no larger than peas; highly season them with pepper and nutmeg; stir all about well, and when cold make it into cakes; dust them over with bread-crumbs, dip them into beaten egg, add more bread-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of hot friture until they are of a fine brown ; arrange them in a pyramid upon a napkin folded in the dish, and garnish with fried parsley. A little grated Parmesan cheese is a considerable improve- ment to the flavour. Crayfish, prawns, and shrimps, first shelled, are excellent as croquettes. Halved lemons should accompany them at table. DRESSED CRAB. Take out the meat, mince it small, mix with it some salad mixture, and replace it in the shell; gar- nish with slices of lemon. l DRIED SALMON AND OTHER FISH. Soak it over night; pull some into flakes, pepper it well; have ready some eggs, boiled hard and coarsely chopped; put both together into half a pint of cream and two ounces of fresh butter rubbed in a teaspoon- ful of flour; stir it until it is scalding hot, make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner rim of aTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 107 disli, and pour the fish inside. Remember, smoked fish is inapplicable for this dish. FISH PASTE. Yarmouth bloaters, smoked salmon, shrimps, prawns, lobsters, anchovies, are suitable for paste. Take the flesh of the already dressed fish, carefully bone it, and divest it of skin, fins, etc.; season it plentifully with spices, and pound it in a mortar; add to it a small proportion of very fresh butter, and when quite a smooth paste press it down well into pots, and cover them with a layer of clarified butter. Tie them securely from the air, if intended to keep for any length of time. I FISH WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. If you happen to have a small quantity of cold fish at hand, bone it carefully; break it up with a spoon, season it with coarse pepper, and add to it a little grated Parmesan cheese—a dessert-spoonful to half a pound of fish will suffice. Mix it with enough white sauce to make it tolerably stiff, pile it up in a dish, smooth over the surface with yolks of egg, sift bread- crumbs on the top, and put sippets of toast round the edge. Bake it until it is thoroughly hot and looks nicely browned. The meat of any kind of white-fleshed fish eats deliciously done thus.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 108 GALANTINE OF SALMON. _ Take from a large salmon a prime piece, of at least eighteen inches in length; clean it thoroughly; oqien it at the stomach, bone it as perfectly as possible, and with a large needle insert upon the inner side fillets of preserved tunny fish, anchovies, and pickled gher- kins ; stuff it with the boned meat of any other fish you can procure, adding some pickled prawns, oysters, lohsteis, etc., well seasoned. Give the piece of sal- mon its original form, fasten it securely together, tie it tight in a cloth, and boil it in vinegar and water until it is done. Let it grow cold in the liquor, remove the cloth, glaze the fish, decorate it with hits of jelly and sippets of toast, and serve cold. This is esteemed a very elegant dish for the breakfast-table, and is not extravagantly expensive when salmon is plentiful. HOT CRAB. Pick the meat from the shell, beat it in a mortar, add a few bread-crumbs, pepper, nutmeg, a spoonful each of strong gravy and cream. Warm it well, and serve it upon hot toast, with plenty of lemon-juice squeezed over it.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 109 MAYONNAISE OF FISH. 1 Take some nicely cut slices of fish, previously cooked; arrange them round a dish, and pour in a mayonnaise sauce, which see. Any description of fish which is suitable for a salad answers very well in this way. Decorate it with tufts of tarragon leaves, pieces of jelly, capers, slices of anchovy, hard-boiled eggs, hits of beet-root, small gherkins, etc. A may- onnaise of salmon is a dish fit for the most distin- guished occasion. OMELETTES OF FISH. There are two ways of making these : one is merely to flako some ready-cooked fish—cold salt cod is very suitable; season it with cayenne, nutmeg, and white pepper; mix it well with six beaten eggs and one dessert-spoonful of cream or milk; fry it on one side only, fold it, and serve. The other method of making an omelette is as follows: Chop up what cold fish you have, add a little parsley and shalot shred small, and a piece of fresh butter and some lemon-juice. Place this in an oven to get hot; then beat six eggs, season them, and pour them into a buttered frying- pan ; put it over the fire, and as soon as the eggs begin to turn opaque lay the warm fish in the middle of them; roll in the ends of the omelette so as toTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 110 enclose the contents, and capsize it upon a dish. Garnish with crisped parsley. The roes of various fish, unpressed caviare, the flesh of preserved tunny- fish, or sardines, are admirably adapted for ome- lettes. OYSTER LOAVES. Get seven halfpenny buns with tender crust; cut out a piece, the size of a crown, from the top of each, and scoop out most of the crumb; put a portion of the latter, with a good bit of butter and eight- and-twenty fresh oysters into a frying-pan, and fry &U together for five minutes; add a little cream and seasoning. Then fill the loaves, allowing four oysters to each ; replace the pieces of crust upon the tops, butter the outsides, and place them for a short time in an oven to get crisp. Serve hot or cold. OYSTERS AND MACARONI. Slowly stew some macaroni in good gravy till quite tender; then lay it in a pie-dish, put in a good layer of fresh oysters, bearded; add pepper, salt, a little grated lemon-rind, and a teaspoonful of cream. Strew bread-crumbs over, and just brown it in a tolerably brisk oven. Serve with plenty of lemon-juice, or a sauce piquante. Olive oil may replace the cream where it is preferred.Ill THE BREAKFAST BOOK. OYSTER SAUSAGES. Beat a pound of veal in a mortar, season it; beard and cut in pieces two dozen oysters, add them to the veal, as well as some bread-crumbs soaked in the oyster liquor. Put this into skins, or mix together with beaten egg, and fry as flat sausages. PIECE OF SALMON WITH MONTPELLIER BUTTER. Boil a handsome piece of salmon, and let it grow cold in the liquor in which it was dressed. When wanted, drain it, remove the skin, trim it neatly, glaze it well with jelly, decorate it with bits of Mont- pellier butter, garnish the dish with pieces of jelly, and serve as an entree for a breakfast or cold collation of any kind. PICKLED MACKEREL OR SALMON, ETC. Carefully clean your fish, and boil it gently in vinegar and water until it is done. Take it up, strain the liquor in which the fish was dressed, add to it some bruised bay leaves, whole pepper, and salt to taste; boil it up, and when cold put with it one- third the quantity of fresh vinegar, and pour it upon the fish. The more vinegar you use the longer the112 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. pickle will keep. Eels and lampreys should be cut into lengths for pickling, and their heads and tails taken off. PICKLED COCKLES AND MUSSELS. Well wash the fish in two or three waters, and put them into a stewpan without any water; when they are opened take them out of the shells, and from the mussels cut away the unwholesome parts. Strain the liquor rendered by the fish, add to it thrice its quantity of vinegar, some salt, and spices, according to taste; give it a boil up, pour it upon the fish, and when quite cold tie down with skins. PICKLED SMELTS. Properly wipe and draw half a gallon of fresh smelts, salt them in layers in a deep dish, with the following ingredients: half an ounce each of pepper §nd ginger, a little beaten mace and nutmeg, half a dozen chopped bay leaves, and a quarter of a pound of bay salt. Pour over them a boiling-hot pickle, made with an ounce of saltpetre, a little cochineal, and a pint each of red wine and strong vinegar. When perfectly cold cover them down close. These are considerably superior to anchovies.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 113 PICKLED OYSTERS. Shell and trim the beards from the oysters; put them, with their own liquor, into a stewpan, simmer them for about a quarter of an hour; then take out the oysters, strain the liquor, and add to it twice its measure of strong vinegar, some salt, pepper- corns, and mace; boil this up, and when quite cold pour it upon the oysters, and tie them down in jars. POTTED FISH. Clean and wipe your fish dry, but do not wash it; cut off the head, tail, and fins, and, if you prefer it, extract the bones. Cut the fish into lengths, and season with a sufiiciency of powdered cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; pack the pieces in pots, cover with a coarse paste, and bake slowly till done. Kemove the paste, drain the fish from the gravy, and next day pour clarified butter upon it. Some cooks bake the fish with some butter with it, or a little strong vinegar is sometimes added in the baking, and afterwards poured off; but the foregoing method suc- ceeds equally well. Eels and lampreys should be skinned before being potted; carp, trout, tench, salmon, herrings, mackerel, pike, smelts, char, and perch are most usually potted, as well as the flesh of lobsters, prawns, and shrimps. iTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 114 POTTED OYSTERS. Beard some nice plump oysters; drain them from their liquor ; rub them in a little beaten mace, grated lemon-peel, and Cayenne pepper. . Put them into a jar, with enough lemon-juice to cover them, place them in a hot oven for a quarter of an hour; then drain them thoroughly, and when cold arrange them in small pots, and pour over them sufficient Italian olive-oil to cover them. Keep them tied down with skins. SALAD OF FISH. Besides lobster, pike, salmon, soles, turbot, cray- fish, and crab are capable of forming delicious salads. Cut the ready dressed, but cold fish, into thin slices, free from bone or skin, mix them with a composition of chopped herbs, four dessert-spoonfuls of strong vinegar, two ditto of melted jell)'-, six of olive-oil, and some coarse pepper. Arrange the meat in your salad bowl, pour in all the mixture, and decorate with the hearts of white lettuce quartered, hard-boiled eggs cut into four, anchovies in slices, pickles, etc. SCALLOPED FISH. Take thin slices of any kind of cold fish; season them according to taste; dip them into cream or meltedTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 115 butter, roll them in bread crumbs, and place one upon another in scallop shells, until the shells are filled. Brown them in a quick oven, and serve them in the shells. Oysters, or the roes of any kind of fresh fish, such as herrings, cod, carp, or mackerel, make delicious scallops. Oysters do not need to be pre- viously cooked, as is necessary in other cases; there should be about four oysters put into each shell, and plenty of butter added. SCOTCH WOODCOCK. Mince the flesh of a dozen Gorgona anchovies, lay them between slices of hot buttered toast, and mask them with some scalding hot cream, thickened with the beaten yolks of eggs. Sprinkle with Cayenne pepper and rasped lemon-peel, and serve quite hot. SMELTS IN JELLY. "Wipe some very fresh smelts, but do not wash them; season them with a little beaten mace, and put them in a deep dish, cover them with butter, and tie them doAvn with paper. Place them in a moderately hot oven, and let them bake for half an hour ; take them out, and as they cool sufficiently, lay them upon a cloth to drain. When cold arrange them in a deep glass mould, and cover them with a clear jelly that has been just melted enough to allow it to run.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 116 When this is well set, it may be either introduced in the glass or turned out upon a dish. Perch, trout, etc., may be similarly treated. SMOKED SALMON. Cut the fish into rather thin slices, place them in a frying-pan of boiling olive oil, and directly they feel firm, when pressed with the blade of a knife, take them up and squeeze lemon-juice over them. Serve with toast. PRAWN OR SHRIMP PUDDING. Pick the flesh from a sufficiency of fish, mince it pretty small. Dry and pound the shells in a mortar, together with some fresh butter; add to this the mince, with an equal quantity of cold chicken, veal, or sweetbread chopped small. Mix with the yolks of raw eggs, add a few bread-crumbs, a little gravy, or cream, and white pepper.to taste; put it into skins, prick them with a needle, and fry in butter when wanted. The flesh of lobster, crayfish, sardines, anchovies, or tunny fish is equally good done thus. SPANISH PICKLE. Take any sort of fish that is fit for pickling, such as salmon, mackerel, red mullet, tunny fish, etc., clean it thoroughly, and cut it into good thick slices. For117 TI-IE BREAKFAST BOOK. about three pounds of fish, beat together one ounce of fine white pepper, a saltspoonful of cayenne, three pounded nutmegs, a tablespoonful of salt, half an ounce of saltpetre, a clove of garlic, a small piece of mace, and a teaspoonful of pimienta (not pimento). Make holes in the fish with your finger, and charge them well with the mixture ; rub it also on the oxit- side. Heat some olive oil in a frying-pan, fry the fish of a fine brown ; then put it into pots, just cover them with strong vinegar, and fill up with fresh oil; tie them down with skins, and the pickle will keep a long time and be found an excellent relish for break- fast. TO CURE SALMON. Draw and split open a fine fresh salmon; wipe it well inside and out, but on no account wash it. Sprinkle it plentifully with brown sugar, and let it remain a day or two ; then rub it over with a small quantity of salt and pounded saltpetre. When this has become pretty well absorbed, wipe the fish, hang it up for a short time in an airy place, and afterwards smoke it slowly.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 118 CHAPTER YIH. Fish Pies. These being exceedingly convenient, as affording to housekeepers the means of, for a time, preserving fish in a fresh state, I have given particular direc- tions for making them; but I must here remark that the gravy used in their composition should, if possible, be also made from fish, as an indiscriminate use of meat and fish together is most objectionable; when, however, it cannot be avoided, veal gravy is the best adapted for the purpose. CARP PIE. Clean, draw, and wipe a good-sized carp. Make a forcemeat of the following ingredients :—The minced flesh from a boiled eel, a few savoury herbs, some finely-shred lemon-peel, pepper, grated nutmeg, salt, a dozen oysters chopped small, an anchovy, the hard- boiled yolks of six eggs cut fine, and a handful of bread-crumbs. Mix these together with a quarter ofTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 119 a pound of fresh butter ; add a little strong gravy and white wine ; stuff some of this into the carp, and with the remainder make balls. Cover the dish with a light pie-crust, put in the fish and forcemeat, add some pieces of butter, and a squeeze of lemon. Put on a lid of crust, and bake it for an hour. Serve cold. GOD PIE. Take a handsome piece of fresh cod; wipe it dry, rub it over with lemon-juice, and let it remain for an hour or two; then cut it into slices, season them well with spices, toss them in plenty of fresh butter until they are pretty firm. Line a pie-dish with a good crust, and when cold place in the fish; add some finely-shred lemon-peel, a cup of fish jelly, some oysters, the hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and some slices of fresh butter. Cover with a top crust, and bake for an hour or more, according to size. "When made into a raised pie the fish should be boned, and the jelly poured in after the pie is baked. EEL PIE. Dry a few sage leaves and powder them ; skin and wipe your eels; take off their heads and tails, and cut them into pieces about two inches long; season them with salt and plenty of pepper, and nib themTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 120 in tlie sage leaves; then take some light paste, lay some round a pie-dish, put in the eels with some bits of fresh butter, and cover with a lid of paste. Bake in a moderately quick oven. FISH PATTIES. Boil the fish, hone it, mince the flesh with chopped heibs and an onion, or some shred lemon-peel; stew it in a little butter, add the juice of a lemon, and a small quantity of essence of shrimps; when cold, mix up with beaten raw eggs. Put portions into puff- paste, and bake until the crust is done. For fried patties the fish should be simply sliced very thin and seasoned. FLOUNDER, OR FLAT FISH PIE. Clean and draw the fish, toss it in butter, take the meat from the bones, cut it into rather large-sized pieces, and lay them in your pie-dish, which you have first lined with paste and slices of butter; strew some pepper over ; add a little minced anchovy. Boil down the bones, skin, etc., with some horse-radish, parsley, lemon-peel, and a piece of toast; reduce this gravy to a breakfast-cupful, pour it upon the fish, lay a lid of crust upon the top and bake slowly.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 121 HERRING PIE. After having scaled, drawn, and wiped the herrings, cut off their heads, tails, and fins. Line a dish with a light crust, put some butter at the bottom; season the fish with plenty of pepper, nutmeg, and a little salt; lay them in the dish; add a sprinkling of lemon-juice; put on a top crust, and bake rather slowly. Some cooks toss the fish quickly in butter before putting them into the pie, and add a little shred shalot. LOBSTER PIE. Cover the inside of a pie-dish with a rich paste. Take the flesh from the tails of two boiled lobsters; cut it into lengths. Pick the meat out of the claws, etc., and pound it in a mortar, adding pepper, essence of anchovy, a little lemon-juice, some grated bread, the yolks of two eggs, and half a pound of fresh butter, first slightly melted. Put the lobster into your dish and lay the forcemeat upon it; cover with a top crust, and bake in a gentle oven. Crab or crayfish likewise makes a very good pie. LOBSTER PATTIES. Take some of the flesh from the tail of a lobster, chop it tolerably small; add a little nutmeg andthe breakfast book. 122 pepper, some ancliovy butter or essence of anchovy; warm it, together with some cream and the beaten yolk of eggs, to give it the requisite consistency. Place portions of this in patty-pans, which you have previously lined witli puff-paste; cover with the same, and bake for about twenty minutes. In a similar manner shrimp, prawn, or crayfish patties may be prepared. MACKEREL PIE. Clean the fish, divest it of the heads and tails, etc., and cut each mackerel into four pieces, rub them in a mixture of chopped fennel, pepper, and salt; toss them slightly in butter; let them grow cold; sprinkle them with pounded loaf sugar; lay them in your dish upon slices of fresh butter; add some forcemeat balls made with chopped oysters, bread-crumbs, spice, and eggs; cover with a top crust, and bake gently for half-an-hour. MIXED FISH PIE. By the sea-coast, where different kinds of fish are sold at twopence a pound, such as gurnets, tomlins, thornback, plaice, shad, etc., they can be converted into veiy delicious pies, which if properly seasoned will keep for a week or ten days. Boil the fish for a quarter of an hour, take it up, cut the flesh free from bone, put the latter again into the water, as well as123 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. the inferior parts, skin, etc., and boil it down until it forms a jelly; strain it, season it with plenty of pepper and some salt. Put the fish into a pie-dish, add some fresh butter, the flesh of two anchovies, pour the jelly over, and put a rim and lid of crust. Very little baking will suffice, so long as the crust is nicely browned. If you should not immediately re- quire the pie you may re-bake it in the course of a few days, which will conduce to its keeping its flavour unimpaired. SALMON PIE. Clean a good piece of salmon, season it with nut- meg, salt, and pepper. Line a pie-dish with a good crust, jiut in some pieces of butter, then lay in the fish. Take the flesh from the tail of a large boiled lobster, chop it roughly, bruise the remainder of the lobster in a mortar, mix with it a sufficient quantity of rich melted butter, pour it in with the salmon, add a little shred lemon rind. Cover the pie with a top crust, and bake it well. SALT FISH PIE. Take your fish after it has been properly soaked and cleaned; parboil it; flake it nicely, and remove all bone, skin, etc. Boil a pint of new milk, and pour it upon the grated crumb of a penny loaf; add124 THE BKEAKFAST BOOK. cinnamon and shred lemon-peel. Put this with the fish, place it in a dish between layers of fresh oysters and pieces of butter, put a rim of paste round, and cover with a lid of crust. Hard-boiled yolks of egg may bo added, if approved of. SHRIMP pie. Make a very thin pie crust, and with it line your dish ; lay upon it a good slice of butter, and fill it with some picked shrimps, to which you have added a little beaten cloves, the chopped flesh of four anchovies, a gill of white wine, and some slices of hard-boiled eggs. Place more butter on the top, put on a lid of crust, and bake in a pretty quick oven for twenty minutes. SOLE PIE. Cut the flesh from a pair of large soles; boil a couple of pounds of silver eels, pick the meat free from the bones, and return the latter to the liquor in which the eels were dressed; add the bones, skin, etc., of the soles, and boil down until the gravy is reduced to little more than half a pint. Make a forcemeat of the eels with a few crumbs of bread* some butter, a little lemon-peel, an anchovy, chopped parsley, some spices, and two hard-boiled eggs ; put this at the bottom of the dish, lay the pieces of soleTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 125 upon the top, pour in the gravy, put an edge and top of paste, and hake for an hour. The sole may be first tossed in butter or not, as preferred. TENCH PIE. Take the fish as soon as they come out of the water, and either nab them well with salt or dip them for a moment or two in boiling water, so as to make them easier to clean. Draw them, and lay them in a pie- dish, with a layer of butter under them, strew pepper and salt over them, pour in a little wine or tarragon vinegar, place some butter on the top, and finish with a lid and rim of crust. A few fresh or pickled mushrooms are a great improvement. TROUT OR GRAYLING PIE. Make a forcemeat with hard-boiled eggs, anchovy, spices, mushrooms, yolk of egg, and fresh butter; stuff your fish with part of it, and make the rest into balls. Prepare your ciaist, place in the fish, etc., and fill up with pieces of silver eel boned; cover with slices of butter and a top of crust. It may be made into a raised pie, if preferred. Bream also makes a capital pie in this manner. Bake for an hour.126 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. TURBOT OR BRILL PIE. Cut the flesh of your fish free from hone, and divide it into good-sized pieces ; rub them in pepper, salt, and savoury herbs shred fine; then toss them in a pan of butter until they are three parts done. Let them grow cold. Get ready the paste in your dish; lay in the fish with hard-boiled eggs, some balls of rich forcemeat, some pieces of butter, and half-a-pint of fish jelly. Place a crust upon the top, and bake for half-an-hour or more, according to size. Essence of anchovy or unpressed caviare may be employed at discretion. OYSTER OR MUSSEL PIE. If your pie is to be of oysters, they require to be simply taken out of their shells and bearded; mus- sels should be washed until their shells are perfectly clean, then put them into a saucepan without water, and when they are all open take them out of their shells, observing, at the same time, to divest the fish of the objectionable parts. Put your fish into a stew- pan, with enough of their strained liquor to cover them; add a few blades of mace, some bread-crumbs, a large piece of butter, and simmer them for a few minutes. Let them grow cold. Cover your dish, with a good puff-paste. Place in the fish, add a lid of paste, and bake for half-an-hour.127 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. OYSTER PATTIES. There seems to be a conventional feeling in favour of oyster patties; so niucb so, that anything of a stylish breakfast or light repast can scarcely be con- sidered complete without them. Beard the oysters, and, if large, halve them; put them into a saucepan with a piece of butter rolled in flour, some finely- shred lemon rind, and a little white pepper, cream, and a portion of the liquor from the fish; stir all well together, let it simmer for a few minutes, and put it into your patty-pans, which you have already prepared with a puff-paste in the usual way. Serve hot or cold.the breakfast book. 128 CHAPTER IX. Bills of Fake foe Breakfasts throughout the Year. Spring Quarter. Breakfast for 8 or 10 Persons. Middle of the Table. Ox-Tongue, glazed. Prawns. Potted Oysters. 4 By-dishes, Cold. Potted Birds. Preserved Sardines. Sausages, tossed. 2 By-dishes Hot. Sweetbreads, grilled. 2 Entries. Rump Steaks, broiled. Fillets of Soles, tossed. Marmalades, Creams, Dried Fruits, Biscuits or Bonbons at discretion.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 129 Spring Quarter. Breakfast for 10 or 12 Persons. 1 i Middle of the Table. Ribs of Beef, rolled. 4 By-dishes, Cold. Pickled Oysters. Shrimps. Radishes. Plovers’ Eggs, a la coque. 2 Dishes of Cold Meat. A piece of Salmon, au bleu. A Bayonne Ham, glazed. _ 4 By-dishes, Hot. Russian Caviare, tossed. Croquettes of Fish. Sheep’s Kidneys, grilled. Small patties of Chicken. 4 Entries. Mayonnaise of Turbot. Blanquette of Lamb. Raised Pie of Pigeons. Fillets of Mackerel, broiled. Accessories as usual. KTHE BREAKFAST BOOK. 130 Spring Quarter. Breakfast for 12 or more Persons Middle of the Table. Target of Lamb. 6 By-dishes, Cold. Pickled Gherkins. Preserved Tunny Fish. Fillets of Anchovies. Bayonne Goose. Potted Hare. Pickled Os Palates. 6 By-dishes, Hot. Small Patties of Shrimps. Haunches of Rabbits, en papilloies. Smoked Salmon, tossed. Lambs’ Tongues, with Parmesan. Trout Cutlets, broiled. "White Puddings, tossed. 4 Entries. Veal Cutlets, tossed. Curried Chicken. Smelts, in case. Duck Pie. 2 Entremets. Omelette of Veal Kidney. Young Potatoes, au naturd. Cream Cheese, Candied Fruit, etc., according to fancy.131 THE BltEAKFAST BOOK. Simmer Quarter. Breakfast for 8 or 10 Persons. Middle of the Table. Collared Calfs Head. 4 By-dishes, Cold. Fish Paste. Small Patties of Eel. Potted Beef. Italian Cheese. 2 By-dishes, Mot. Mutton Cutlets, au naturel. Cervelas, or Smoked Sausage, tossed. Entrees. Piece of Salmon, with Montpellier Butter. Eaised Pie of Chickens. ♦ Fresh Fruits, Brioche Cakes, and Dishes of Dessert, etc.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 132 Summer Quarter. Breakfast for 10 or 12 Persons. . Middle of the Table. A Cray Fish. 4 By-dishes, Cold. Potted Tongue. Sliced Cucumbers. Oysters, au naturd. Pickled Partridges. Yeal Cake. 2 Dishes of Cold Meat. Lamb Pie. 4 By-dishes, Mot. Meat Polls. Sheep’s Tongues, au gratin. Rabbit Puddings, a la Richelieu. Devilled Duck. 4 Entrees. Mayonnaise of Soles. Capilotade of Chicken. Leveret, a la minute. Civet of Yenison. Preserves, Jellies, and Bonbons, according to fancy.133 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. Summer Quarter. Breakfast for 12 or more Persons. Middle of the Table. Galantine of Veal. 6 By-dishes, Cold. Cold Meat, en vinaigrette. Potted Venison. Pickled Turkey. Oyster Loaves. Lobster Patties. Preserved Rabbit. Calfs Liver, tossed. Kippered Mackerel. Coquilles of Fowl. 6 By-dishes, Hot. Pigeons, broiled. Croquettes of Prawns. Poached Eggs and Spinach. 4 Entrees. Perch, tossed. Poulet, a, la chipolata. Raised Pie of Ham. Salad of Pike. 2 Entremets. Oysters and Macaroni. Artichokes, with Gravy. Candied and Fresh Fruits, Biscuits, etc.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 134 Autumn Quarter, Breakfast for 8 or 10 Persons. Middle of the Table. Collared Sucking Pig. 4 By-dislies, Cold. Anchovy Canape's. Pressed Caviare. Potted Cheese. Pickled Mussels. Brain Cakes. 2 By-dishes, Hot. Dried Sprats, tossed. Salmi of Partridges. 2 Entries. Pork Cutlets and Poached eggs. Compotes of Fruit, Cheese, Breakfast Cakes, etc.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. Autumn Quarter. Breakfast for 10 or 12 Persons. Middle of the Table. Grouse, in Jelly. 4 jBy-dishes, Cold. Spanish Pickle. Pickled Smelts. Potted Rabbit. Anchovy Fillets, 2 Dishes of Cold Meat. Galantine of Pheasant. Hunter's Beef. 4 By-dishes, Hot. Rissoles of Hare. Partridges, en papillotes. Truffle Sasuages, tossed. Strasbourg Puddings. 4 Entrees. Raised Pie of Pork. Fillets of Carp, tossed. Sportsman’s Salmi of Snipes. Pate de Pithiviers. Jellies, Sweets, and Cold Entremets, if approved of.136 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. Autumn Quarter. Breakfast foe 12 or more Persons. Middle of the Table. Partridges, roasted and glazed. 6 By-dishes, Gold. Lyons Sausage. Pickled Cockles. Potted cold boiled Beef. Pheasant Patties. Marbled VeaL Canape's of Sardines. Oyster Sausages. Devilled Turkey. Ham Toast. 6 By-dislies, Hot. Game Puddings. Dolpettes of cold Meat. Bloaters, tossed. 4 Entrees. Tench Pie. Boiled Goose. Grouse, a la minute. Terrine of Hare. 2 Entremets. Truffles, a la serviette. Omelette of Mushrooms. Biscuits, Marmalades, Bonbons, and the usual accessories.137 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. Winter Quarter. Breakfast for 8 or 10 Persons. Middle of the Table. Guinea Fowl, glazed. 4 By-dishes, Cold. Pickled Thrushes. Olives. Venison Beef, potted. Small Patties of Truffles. 2 By-dishes, Hot. Oysters, fried. Scotch "Woodcock. 2 Entre'es. Beef, a la Mode. Kidney Raised Pie. Brioche Cakes, Honey, Dried Fruits, and other adjuncts.138 THE BREAKFAST BOOK. Winter Quarter. Breakfast for 10 or 12 Persons. Middle of the Table. Galantine of Lamb. 4 By-dishes, Cold. Slices of Cold Tongue. Slices of Game Cake. Potted Lobster. Pickled Snipes. 2 Dishes of Cold Meat. French Bceuf, e'carlate. Woodcock Pie. 4 By-dishes, Hot. Shrimp Puddings. Anchovy Toast. Curried Rabbit. Marinade of Chicken. 4 Entrees. Fillets of Salmon, tossed. Lobster Salad. Civet of Hare. Sweetbreads, en came. Creams, Candies, Cakes, etc., according to taste.THE BREAKFAST BOOK. 139 Winter Quarter. Breakfast for 12 or more Persons. Middle of the Table. Imitated Boar’s Head. 6 By-dishes, Cold. Slices of cold Ham. Oyster Patties. Pickled Salmon. Cresses. Pork Cheese. Petits Pales of Trout. 6 By-dishes, Hot. Marinade of Turkey. Sweetbreads, en caisse. Game Toast. Devilled Babbit. Dressed Crab. Mayonnaise of Turbot or Salmon. 4 Entrees. Yorkshire Pie. Perigord Pie. Blanquette of Veal. Curried Mutton. 2 Entremets. Omelette of Gruyere Cheese. Truffles, tossed. Accessories as usual.LONDON: PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: fsJQ Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: Date27.10.95 Particulars Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification Lamination s/'' Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives P.V.A. M218 WHEAT STARCH PASTE Remarks