462 DISSECTIOI^ OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. !^ case of three toes, but the tendon of the great toe is inserted ;| 0'i separately into the base of the nearest phalanx. 110 On the instep the muscle is covered by the long extensor and f Ik the peroneus tertius; and the inner fleshy belly, larger than the ^ others, is detached from the rest of the muscle for a considerable distance. The tendons blend with those of the long extensor, and are applied to the outer border. It assists the long extensor in straightening the toes, and directs them somewhat out at the same time. The extensor propriiis pollicis, is concealed for the most part by the preceding muscle. It takes origin from the middle three fifths of the inner surface (anterior part) of the fibula, and from the interosseous membrane. At the ankle it ends in a tendon, which is (jontained in a space in the lower piece of the annular ligament, and is thence directed over the inner part of the foot to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. The part of the muscle in the leg is deeply placed between the extensor longus digitorum and the tibialis; but the tendon on the dorsum of the foot is superficial. The tibial vessels lie inside the extensor as low as the ankle, but afterwards outside it. As this muscle passes over the ankle, like the extensor of the digits, it has a similar action, viz. first straightening its digit and next bending the ankle. And the slanting limb touching the ground, the extensor of the great toe will help to move the fibula over the foot; or to support that bone in stooping. The anterior annular ligament of the leg is constructed by the deep fascia strengthened by transverse fibres near the ankle-joint. It incases and binds down the tendons of the muscles, and consists of two parts—upper and lower. The upper piece, J, is placed above the ankle, and is squarer in form than the lower. It is attached laterally to the tibia and fibula, and is continued into the fascia of the leg by the upper and lower edges. In it is one sheath towards the inner side for the tibialis anticus, and this is lined by a synovial sac, which is prolonged on the tendon into the other part of the ligament; '^^^ whilst the other muscles of the leg pass under it without being jljj^j^ contained in sheaths. This band serves the purpose of fixing thep^jf^^ 4. tee ti lalleol lione giton taso: lithe Ke,J Dtall) ejffis Late isgri jmed] %\ \ two ilfof ds; ra,l]f 1 till Mgll ow. \ Dens oftl atli(I The nil