DISSECTION OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG, 466 distributed to the neighbonringmuscles and the teguments. Even the named branches are gmall in size, like the offsets of the arteries of the upper limb ; thej are the following j— The recurrent Iranch springs from the upper end of the artery, and ascends through the tibialis to the knee-joint: it gives branches to that muscle, and its superficial ramifications are marked with /. A cuianeons branch, e, accompanies the musculo-cutaneous nerve • it supplies the contiguous muscles, and ends in the teguments. Malleolar branches. Two small arteries with this name take origin a little above the ankle, and ramify over the malleoli: the inner is shown by, /; and the outer, concealed by the muscles, joins the anterior communicating branch,/, of the peroneal artery (p. 432). Articular Iranches pass from the lower end of the artery into the ankle-joint. Pecidiarities. Occasionally the trunk of the anterior tibial artery has been found superficial to the muscles in the lower part of the leg ; in such a condition of the vessel a superficial wound might lay it open. Its size is very variable, like the arteries of the upper limb, and the deficient part is supplied by an offset from the posterior tibial, or from the peroneal artery. Dorsal artery of the foot, h. This part of the anterior tibial extends from the ankle-joint to the ending in the sole of the foot. It lies near the surface ; and its position will be found by the line before mentioned. For the greater part of its extent it is covered by the inner piece of the extensor brevis digitorum, but at the beginning and ending only by the special fascia and the teguments. It is firmly supported by the subjacent tarsal bones. Laterally it has a tendon on each side, viz. the extensor pollicis internally, and the extensor longus digitorum externally, but both are at a distance from it—about half an inch. The venEe comites have the same arrangement here as above, and the anterior tibial nerve is placed on the outer side. Branches, Many offsets are given to the tarsal and metatarsal portions of the foot: those leaving the inner side of the vessel'