414 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. The tegumentaiy nerve-branches on the back of the leg are derived from the pophteal trunks, and from the small sciatic and anterior crural nerves. Internal cutaneous of the thigh. The inner branch of this nerve, 1, becomes cutaneous close above the knee-joint, and descending over the inner belly of the gastrocnemius, reaches about half way to the heel. Near the knee it is joined by a small branch from the internal saphenous. Internal or long saphenous nerve, 2, escapes from beneath the sartorius on the inside of the knee ; piercing then the deep fascia, it enters the subcutaneous fatty layer, and accompaniesjji^vein of the same name to the inner side of the foot. A small communi- cating branch unites it and the internal cutaneous. The small sciatic nerve, 3, passing through the ham, pierces the d^ep fascia below that space. When cutaneous, it is applied to the short saphenous vein, and sending offsets around the vessel, is continued to the middle, or the lower third of the leg. Inferiorly it unites with an offset of the short saphenous nerve. The external or short saphenous nerve, 4, coming from the internal popliteal trunk (p. 412), courses along the back of the leg and below the outer ankle, with the vein of the same name, to the outer side of the foot and little toe. In this course it lies beneath the deep fascia till about half way down the leg, where it enters the fat, and is joined by the peroneal communicating branch, 5. It distributes offsets to the integuments of the leg below the calf, and many branches of large size to the outer side of the heel and foot. The peroneal communicating Iranch, 5, is derived from the 1. Inner branch of the internal 5. Peroneal communicating branch. 6. Cutaneous branch of the outer cutaneous of the thigh. 2. Internal or long saphenous. 3. Small sciatic. part of the leg. 7. Internal popliteal nerve. 8. External popliteal nerve. 4. External or short saphenous.