432 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. the outside of the fibula, lying in grooves in the bone, to reach the peronei. The nutritive artery of the lone is furnished by one of the mus- cular branches, and enters the aperture in the shaft of the fibula, after piercing the tibialis : it is smaller than the artery to the shaft of the tibia.' Coynmunicating Iranches. Two in number, anterior and pos- terior, they serve the purpose of anastomosing with the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. The anterior passes to the front of the leg through an aperture in the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and is commonly named anterior peroneal. It is continued to the dorsum of the foot on the outer side, and some of its offsets anastomose with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries. When the anterior tibial trunk is unusually small, or is wanting on the foot, this communicating branch is proportionally augmented, taking the place of the deficient artery in the one case, and assisting the smaller trunk in supplying the foot in the other condition. The posterior communicating lies beneath the flexor pollicis, opposite the lower end of the tibia, and unites with a similar branch of the posterior tibial (p. 431). Sometimes there is a second communicating artery lower down. If the trunk of the posterior tibial is absent in the lower part of the leg this branch of the peroneal, much increased in size, takes the place of that blood-vessel, and enters the sole of the foot to supply the plantar arteries. The comimnion veins, I, (venae comites) of the peroneal artery lie on the sides of that vessel, and communicate across it : they receive branches corresponding with the offsets of the artery, and end above in the posterior tibial veins. The posterior tibial nerve, 9, is a continuation of the internal pop- liteal trunk, and extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the space between the inner malleolus and the os calcis, where it divides near or beneath the annular ligament into the two plantar nerves. Its connections with muscles are the same as those of the blood-vessel. In close contact with the artery throughout, it changes its place with respect to the vessel : thus