384 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. When both legs are fixed, as in standing, this and the small gluteus will aid in balancing the pelvis on the thigh bones. When the body is propped on one leg the two smaller gluteal muscles act powerfully in keeping the hip-bone fixed ; and in walking the same glutei muscles assist in balancing the trunk over the supporting limb. The anterior fibres alone acting will turn the face to the same side. The gluteus minimus, D, is covered by the preceding, and is attached to the pelvis and the thigh bone, like the medius ; it resembles this muscle in its action, and it will be described with the following Plate. External rotators of the hijj-joint. This group consists of six muscles, viz. pyriformis, obturator internus and gemelli, qua- dratus femoris, and obturator externus. All are placed at the back of the joint, and are directed almost transversely from the pelvis to the top of the femur. The pyriformis, Cj arises inside the pelvis from the front of the sacrum (p. 313) ; and as it issues from that cavity by the great sacro-sciatic notch it has a further fleshy attachment to the edge of the hip-bone, and to the great sacro-sciatic ligament, R. Out- side the pelvis the muscle is inserted by a narrow tendon into the top of the great trochanter between the two smaller glutei. The part of the muscle in the buttock is concealed by the gluteus maximus, and by the gluteus medius in part ; and rests on the gluteus minimus, which separates it from the hip-joint. The upper edge lies along the gluteus medius, and the lower is near the upper gemellus, E. As it escapes from the pelvis it divides into two the great sacro-sciatic notch : through the upper part issue the gluteal vessels, and the upper gluteal nerve; and through the lower come the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves. Should the thigh-bone hang loosely the muscle will draw back- wards the great trochanter, and give rise to rotation outwards ; but should the hip-joint be bent it will abduct the femur from the other limb. Supposing the limb fixed, as in standing, the pyriformis will help to balance the pelvis ; and in rising from a stooping posture it will assist in erecting the trunk. In standing