894 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. The lower and smaller aperture intervenes between the attach- ments of the two ligaments to the hip-bone, and gives passage to the obturator internus muscle, G, the pudic artery, g, with its veins, the pudic nerve, 10, and the nerve to the obturator muscle, 9, with its vessels. ARTERIES OF THE BUTTOCK. Parts of the gluteal, sciatic, and pudic arteries of the internal iliac; branches of the internal and external circumflex arteries ; and offsets of the first perforating artery of the profunda, are incladed in the dissection; but the gluteal and internal circum- flex will be referred to here more especially. a. Trunk of gluteal. I. Superficial j ,f ^^.^ i.^^eal. c, a. Deep brancn ) c. Sciatic artery, cut. /. Coccygeal branches. g. Pudic artery. h. Branch of the quadratus. I. Ending of the internal circum- flex. n. Transverse ) of the cir- 0. Ascending branch I cuniflex. r. First perforating of the profunda, s. Branch of perforating to the biceps. t. Ascending branch of perforating to joiu circumflex. +t Branches to the sciatic nerve from the sciatic artery. The gluteal arterg, a, escapes from the pelvis through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch, as before said, and divides into superficial and deep muscular branches. The superficial part, b, appears between the gluteus medius and the pyriformis (Plate xlix.), and pierces the under surface of the gluteus maximus (p. 387). The deep part divides into two chief branches, which are con- tinued forwards between the gluteus medius and minimus. One, c, courses over the origin of the gluteus minimus to the fore part of the iliac crest, where it anastomoses with the external circumflex of the profunda : it furnishes branches to both the smaller glutei, but chiefly to the medius ; and some offsets ascend over the iliac crest to communicate with arteries in the wall of the abdomen. The other branch, d, cro"sses the middle of the smallest gluteal muscle, and ends in front by supplying the tensor of the fascia lata, and by anastomosing, like the upper branch, with the