395 ARTERIES OF THE BUTTOCK. external circumflex : its offsets are given to the two muscles between which it Hes, but most belong to the smallest gluteus. A considerable branch passes beneath the pyriformis, and penetrates the fibres of the gluteus minimus ; some of its ramifications are prolonged to the hip-joint. The gluteal veins have the same anatomy as the artery, and open into the internal iliac vein : they were removed in the dissection. The sciatic snidpudic arteries, e and fj, have been described with the preceding Plate (p. 387). Several offsets of the sciatic artery, which enter the great sciatic nerve, are marked thus, f. The internal circumflex artery of the profunda, I, (p. 37G), divides beneath the quadratus into two terminal branches,— ascending and transverse. The ascending branch, o, follows the obturator externus muscle^ beneath thequadratus femoris to the pit at the root of tlie_great trochanter, and anastomoses there with_jhe gluteal artery; it gives small muscular branches to the quadratus, obturator, and gemelli, and some offsets extend to the surface of the great trochanter. The transverse branch, n, passes back between the borders of the quadratus, I, and adductor magnus, L, and sends branches to the muscles attached to the ischial tuberosity, some small offsets reaching the surface of both the adductor and the great sacro- sciatic ligament, as in the Figure. It anastomoses beneath the hamstrings with the highest muscular branch of the profunda ; and with the first perforating artery of the profunda, r, by means of a small branch which crosses the upper edge of the adductor magnus near the attachment to the femur, and joins the ascending offset, t, from that perforating artery. External circumflex of the profunda, i. The ascending branches of this artery course beneath the tensor of the fascia lata to the hip-bone, where they supply the glutei and the tensor, and anas- tomose with the gluteal artery. In detaching the gluteus medius the branches to it were cut. Offsets from it are given to the trochanter. The first perforating artery of the profanda, r, (p. 377) comes