400 DISSECTION OF THE POPLITEAL SPACE. The popliteal artery, a, begins and ends beyond the limits of the space now defined. The part of the artery contained in the ham courses obKquely from the inner side above to the mid- point of the space below. At first it issues from beneath the semimembranosus, B, but it lies afterwards in the hollow between the condyles of the femur and the heads of the gastrocnemius. It is deeply placed throughout, and rests on the lower end of the femur and the knee-joint. Internally it is in contact with the semimembranosus, B, and with the inner head of the gastrocne- mius, H ; and the .first muscle would serve as the guide to the position of the vessel. It has the following connections with veins and nerves : The popliteal vein, I, is closely united to the artery throughout. At the upper end of the space it is external to the arterial trunk, whilst towards the lower end, or between the heads of the gas- trocnemius, it becomes superficial to that vessel. Some small cutaneous veins, i, cross the inner side of the artery in their course to join the popliteal vein. The internal popliteal nerve, 3, passes through the ham from the upper to the lower angle, and is much more superficial than the blood-vessels. At first it lies outside the line of the vascular trunks, but is placed over these between the heads of the gastro- cnemius. Some of its branches touch the vessels : for instance the short saphenous nerve, 4, lies on the popliteal trunks below, and the nerve, 6, to the inner head of the gastrocnemius crosses them ; further the azygos articular nerve, 7, enters the back of the joint beneath the vessels. Much more superficial than the internal popliteal trunk, 3, is the continuation of the small sciatic nerve, 2, with accompanying vessels ; and resting on the popliteal artery is the articular branch of the obturator nerve. Branches of the artery. In the popliteal space the artery fur- nishes muscular and articular branches. Muscular branches. These are supplied from the upper and lower parts of the trunk. The upper enter the biceps and semi- membranosus ; and the lower or sural, g and n, are distributed to the heads of the gastrocnemius and the plantaris.