SECOND LAYER OF MUSCLES. As the tendon escapes from the internal annular ligament it lies internal to the flexor pollicis, and is surrounded by a synovial membrane as far as the place of junction with it of the accesso- rius muscle, F; and as it crosses over the tendon of the flexor of the great toe a communication is established between the two, as before said. Finally from the pieces into which the tendon splits a group of four accessory muscles—the lumbricales—takes origin. The parts covered by the tendon are set forth in Fig. i. of the following Plate. Sheaths of the flexor tendons. Along the four outer toes the pieces of the short and long flexor are lodged in a partly osseous and partly membranous canal, as in the fingers. Towards the plantar surface the sheath is formed by fibrous bands, L, which are strongest opposite the centre of the two nearest phalanges, and thinnest opposite the joints ; whilst at the opposite aspect it is constructed by the bones which are hollowed out to be adapted to the tendons. A synovial membrane lubricates the sheath, as in the fingers, and reaches posteriorly along the tendons nearly to the attachment of the lumbricales. In the sheath accessory bands are connected with the tendons; and these are similar to, but not so well marked as those in the hand (p. 87). In the sheath of the great toe only one tendon is contained. Action of the flexors on the toes. In both members the bending of the digits takes place in the same order. Firstly the hinder phalangeal joint is flexed by the *short flexor carrying down the middle phalanx. Nextly the anterior joint is bent by the long flexor drawing the last phalanx towards the sole. And lastly the metatarso-phalangeal joint is flexed by the indirect action of the two tendons bound to the first phalanx by the sheath of the digit, and by the direct contraction of the lumbricalis and interossei muscles. The musculus arressorivs, F, is a squarish fleshy mass, which has received its name from assisting the long flexor to bend the digits. It is bifurcated behind, and arises externally by tendon from tlie outer surface of the os calcis and the long plantar ligament, and internally by a thick fleshy part, G, from the inner concave sur- face of that bone. About the middle of the sole it becomes ton-