INTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE. 439 nerves; and the latter are the terminal pieces of the posterior tibial nerve. 1. Cutaneous plantar nerve. 2. Internal plantar trunk. 3. External plantar trunk. 4. Digital of inner side of great 9. Digital of fourth and fifth toes. 10, Digital of outside of little toe. 6. Digital of second and third toes. 7. Digital of third^and fourth toes. 8. Communicating of plantars. toe. 5. Digital of first and second toes. The cutaneous plantar nerve, 1, whose origin appears in the preceding Plate, ramifies in the integuments of the heel, viz. in that part on which the foot rests in standing. Along the sides of the flexor brevis digitorum other nerves, derived from the plantar trunks, pierce the fascia, and become cutaneous. Near the roots of the toes, and along the borders of the foot, branches are also furnished to the teguments from the digital nerves. The plantar nerves, two in number like the arteries, are obtained from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial trunk beneath the annular ligament (p. 432). In Fig. ii. the first or deep part of each is visible; and their termination on the toes may be observed in Fig. i. The internal nerve, supplies but few muscles, and ends ante- riorly in digital branches for the three inner toes and half the fourth. Beginning on the inner side of the heel, it is directed forwards under cover of the abductor pollicis to the middle (in length) of the sole. Here the nerve becomes superficial between the abductor and the flexor digitorum, and is inclined forwards and outwards towards the fore part of the third interos- seous space where it ends in the fourth digital nerve, 7. In tlie superficial part of its course it lies over the flexor tendons, being covered by the plantar fascia. While the nerve is beneath the abductor pollicis it gives branches to that muscle and tlie flexor digitorum ; and after it becomes superficial it furnishes the digital branches. The digital hranches, four in number, are named first, second, and so forth, from the inner to the outer border of the foot. At first they are covered by the plantar fascia, but near the root of