459 TIBIALIS ANTICUS MUSCLE. MUSCLES OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. Two groups of muscles come into view in this Illustration : an anterior which bends the ankle and extends the toes ; and a lateral for the extension of the ankle. Anterior group of muscles. Between the tibia and fibula are lodged two flexors of the ankle (tibialis and peroneus tertius); and between them are situate the long extensor of the toes and the special extensor of the great toe. On the dorsum of the foot lies the short extensor of the toes. The tibialis anticus, A, is the widest and most internal muscle of the group. Its origin is fixed to the upper half or rather more of the outer surface of the tibia, and to the contiguous part ^ of the interosseous membrane—the membranous attachment ! reaching rather lower down than the osseous. In the lower third I of the leg the muscle acquires a tendon, and passing through a gheath in each part of the annular ligament, is inserted into the inner surface of the internal cuneiform bone, and the base of the ^metatarsal bone of the great toe. In contact with the fascia throughout, the muscle is inseparably ! united with it by an aponeurosis at the upper part. It rests on 1 the tibia and the interosseous membrane, covering the spine of ; that bone in the lower third of the leg ; and lies over the ankle joint and the tarsus. Its outer border touches the extensor digi- torum and extensor pollicis, and is the guide to the anterior tibial ,,j vessels. In the annular ligament the tendon is surrounded by a i; synovial sac which reaches nearly to the insertion. With the foot free to be moved the muscle will bend the ankle and carry inwards the great toe ; it can also raise the inner border of the foot, drawing inwards this part. The foot being fixed, as A. Tibialis anticus. B. Extensor longus digitorum. C. Extensor longus pollicis. D. Peroneus tertius. F. Extensor brevis digitorum. H. Peroneus longus. L Peroneus brevis. J. Upper part of annular liga- ment. K. Lower part of annular ligament. N. External annular ligament. 0. Slieaths for the peronei.