465 ANTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. 6. Cutaneous branch with a nerve. /. Offsets of the recurrent branch. g. Anterior tibial trunk. h. Dorsal artery of the foot. u Internal malleolar branch. j. Anterior peroneal brancn. k. Tarsal branch. I. First dorsal interosseous. n. Metatarsal branch. 0. Three outer interosseous. The anterior tibial artery, g, is derived from the splitting of the popliteal trunk at the lower edge of the popliteiis muscle; and it reaches to the sole of the foot, which it enters through the hinder part of the first interosseous space, ending as before said (p. 454). Beginning at the back of the leg (Plate LV.) it is directed forwards at first between the bones and above the in- terosseous membrane, and then along the front of the leg and the dorsum of the foot. A line on the surface of the limb from the inner part of the neck of the fibula to the first interosseous space would mark the position of the subjacent vessel. For the purpose of description a division of it into two is commonly made, viz. an upper part called anterior tibial, and a lower, which has been named the dorsal artery of the foot. In the leg the anterior tibial is deeply placed between the fleshy bellies of the muscles ; but it becomes more superficial near the ankle, and is covered finally only by the annular ligament and the teguments. To its inner side nearly all the way is the tibialis anticus ; though close to the lower end the extensor proprius pollicis intervenes between the two, having crossed the artery just above the ankle. On the outer side comes first the extensor longus digitorum for about two inches, then the extensor pollicis as far as the ankle, and finally the extensor longus digitorum again at the ending. It rests in the upper two thirds of its course on the interosseous membrane, and in the lower third, on the tibia and the ankle-joint. Companion veins, ^, encircle the artery, forming a plexiform disposition over the upper part. The anterior tibial nerve, 0, comes into contact with the vessels about the place of meeting of the upper and middle thirds of the leg, and runs with them to the foot; at first it is external, then internal to the vessels, and finally external in position on the dorsum of the foot. Brcau'hcs. Most of the collateral ofTsets are unnamed, and are