358 SUPERFICIAL NERVES. the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the thigh, where it divides into two parts, which are distributed as below :— ^^^^ ^ The anterior branch, 6, winds forward over the sartorius^ A, and piercing the fascia lata in the lower third of the thigh, supplies the integuments as low as the inner side of the knee : it joins the patellar branch of the great saphenous nerve by the offset, 9. (^)The inner branch, 7, courses under, and along the hinder border of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee, where it is trans- mitted through the fascia lata ; when cutaneous it is continued in the fat along the inner part of the calf of the leg, about half- way down. Near its beginning it is joined by a branch, 13, of the obturator nerve, and on the inner part of the knee there is a uniting branch, 9, between it and the great saphenous nerve. From the trunk of the nerve before it divides, or from its anterior branch, offsets marked thus, f, are furnished to the inte- guments of the inner part of the thigh in the upper half. ^>>The internal saphenous nerve, 11, lying at first beneath the sartorius, as is seen in Plate xlv., escapes from beneath that muscle at the inner side of the knee ; and is continued with the vein of the same name through the leg to the foot. As it becomes cutaneous it gives forwards one offset to the integuments of the front of the leg, and another backwar^is to join the inner branch, 7, of the internal cutaneous. Whilst the saphenous nerve is covered by the sartorius in the lower third of the thigh it supplies i^'patellar Iramh, 10, to the integuments of the inner and fore parts of the knee : this pierces the sartorius andjthe ^scia,- and being joined by an offset, 9, of the internal cutaneous, communicates in the fat with the middle and external cutaneous nerves, forming a plexus—the patellar. {V^ Part of the oUurator nerve. The superficial part, 13, of the obturator nerve comes forwards beneath the adductor longus muscle, H, and is inclined outwards under the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata to the femoral artery (Plate xlv.). It commu- nicates with the internal cutaneous branch, 7, beneath the fascia; and some small offsets are prolonged through the fascia to the integuments on the inner side of the thigh.