DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 346 yessels. Its outer edge is straighter than the inner. This funnel- shaped tube lies in an interval between two pieces of the fascia lata: in front of it is the reflected part, D, and behind it is a deeper piece of the same fascia, from both which it can be detached with the handle of the scalpel. Perforating it are superficial vessels for the top of the thigh, and the genito-crural nerve. This tube serves as a casing to the bloodvessels passing from the abdomen to the thigh, and corresponds with a similar sheath on the vessels of the upper limb entering the axilla. Interior of the crural sheath. On cutting through the fi'ont of the crural sheath, as in the Figure, the included space will be seen to be larger than is needed to lodge the femoral vessels; and to be largest internally where the tube slants most. In the tube are contained the femoral vessels, each invested with a sheath of areolar tissue, together with an inguinal gland. The vessels lie side by side, the artery being external and near to the outer border of the tube ; they are united together closely by their areolar investments. When a piece has been cut out of each areolar sheath, as in the Plate, the cut edges on the sides of the vessels will appear like partitions passing from the front to the back, and dividing into parts [the contained space. Com- monly three such spaces or compartments are described as result- ing from two septa in the interior of the crural sheath, viz. an external containing the femoral artery ; a middle one, the femoral vein ; and an inner space, K, which is partly filled by an inguinal gland. Through the inner space of the crural sheath a piece of intestine . descends in femoral hernia ; and names have been given to parts of the passage through which it glides, which resemble the terms applied to parts of the passage for the inguinal hernia. Thus the opening into the crural sheath ft'om the cavity of the belly is the crural ring ; the space in the interior of the sheath, inside the vein, is the crural canal; and the saphenous opening in the fascia lata represents the aperture of exit. The crural ring^ or the abdominal aperture into the space in the crural sheath, is placed on the inner side of the femoral vessels,