GLUTEUS MAXIMUS MUSCLE. S81 integuments of the scrotum or the labium, according to the sex (p» 254), and is named inferior 'pudendal. The external cutaneous of the thigh, a branch of the lumbar plexus (p. 309), furnishes oflPsets to the fore part of the region laid bare. The cutaneous vessels, like the nerves, are derived from severali sources. Accompanying the last dorsal nerve, 1, is a branch of the lowest intercostal arterj ; and running with the ilio-hypo- gastriC) 1', is a small branch of a lumbar artery. With the lumbar nerves, 2, are offsets of the posterior branches of the lumbar arteries; and with the sacral nerves, 3 and 4, are branches of the sciatic arterj. The offsets of the small sciatic nerve, lOy have, as their companions, ramifications of the sciatic artery. Through the upper part of the gluteus branches of the gluteal artery penetrate ; and through the lower part, the branches of the sciatic artery. At the upper border of the gluteus appear offsets also of the gluteal artery ; and small branches of the external circumflex of the profunda perforate the fascia lata over the great trochanter. Only the great gluteal muscle is dissected in this stage, though two other glutei cover the hip-bone; and one, the gluteus medius, shows through the fascia in the Plate. Issuing beneath the gluteus maximus are the hamstring muscles of the thigh. The gluteus maximus, A, reaches from the pelvis to the femur, and resembles the deltoid muscle of the upper limb in its posi- tion, and in the coarseness of its fibres. The pelvic attachment, or the origin, is fixed, from above down, to the posterior third of the crest and the contiguous part of the hip-bone, to the tendon of tlic multifidus spinas, to the last piece of the sacrum, and to the side of the coccyx and the great sacro- MUSCLES OF THE BUTTOCK, A. Gluteus maximus. B. Gluteus medius, covered by D. Biceps flexor cruris. E. Semitendinosus. F. Semimembranosus. G. Adductor magnus. fascia. C. Fascia lata of the thigh.