342 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. Only a small part of the fascia is now laid bare, and through it the saphenous vein passes. Outside the opening for the vein the fascia is united above to Poupart's ligament : here it is thick and strong, and serves to keep the ligament tense and closely applied to the parts beneath, so that it assists materially in checking the descent of a piece of intestine beneath that tendinous band. Inside the opening the fascia is much thinner, and is inserted into the pubes. Most of the apertures in the fascia for the passage of the super- ficial vessels and nerves are small, but that for the saphenous vein is large, and is called the saphenous opening. The saphenous opening, H, is placed inside the line, I, of the femoral vessels, and is much larger than is needful for the passage of the vein and some other small vessels. Its form is semilunar, with the extremities directed up and down. Its measurements are, one inch and a half to two inches in length, and about half an inch across at the widest part ; but the greater width in the Figure is due to the fascia being raised by the distending with injection the subjacent vessels. The extremities of the aperture are named cornua : the upper cornu touches Poupart's ligament, and the lower is distant about one inch and a half from that structure. The edges have different characters :—The outer is crescentic in form, and blends with the subjacent crural sheath F : above, where it is thicker and firmer, it unites with Gimbernat's liga- ment (part of the insertion of Poupart). To this border, which is not free, though it has a semilunar appearance, the term falci- form process or edge has been given ; and the upper part, between E and Poupart's ligament A, has been called by some the femoral ligament. At the inner side of the opening the fascia lata is flattened half the way down over the subjacent pectineus muscle ; but thence to the lower cornu it presents a sharp edge, G, which is continued below into the falciform part of the outer boundary. In the area of the opening appears the loose membraneous crural sheath F. To the sides of the aperture the deeper stratum of the subcutaneous or superficial fatty layer is connected by bands of fibrous tissue ; and as that part, stretching over the opening, is