370 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. VESSELS OF THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. The vessel supplying the extensor muscle of the knee is the external circumflex branch of the profunda artery, with its vein. e. External circmmflex artery. The profunda artery, d, runs beneath the femoral trunk, and distributes large branches in the thigh : of these the only one included in this Illustration is the external circumflex. The external circumflex artery, e, is the largest branch of the profunda, and springs near the beginning of that trunk : destined for the outer part of the thigh, it divides into three chief pieces amongst the branches of the anterior crural nerve. The ascending branch, /, passes under the sartorius, rectus, and tensor vaginse femoris to the back of the hip-bone, where it supplies the gluteal muscles, and anastomoses with the gluteal artery: it furnishes nutritive branches to the muscles amongst which it passes. The descending branch, g, is the largest of the three pieces, and divides into offsets which enter the deep heads of the extensor. One offset courses over the surface of the vastus externus to the knee-joint with a small nerve. The transverse branch, h, divided into two or more offsets, enters beneath the vastus externus, and piercing that muscle anastomoses with the arteries on the back of the thigh. The external circumflex vein (Plate xlv. o) has the same general distribution as the artery, and joins the profunda vein. Two nerves, viz. a branch of the gluteal, and the anterior crural, are supplied to the muscles described in this Plate. a. Femoral arteiy. h. Circumflex iliac artery, c Epigastric artery. d. Profunda artery. /. Ascending branch of circumflex. g. Descending branch. h. Transverse branch. i. Femoral vein. NERVES OF THE FRONT OF THE THIGH. cut. 4. Nerve to vastus externus. 1. Nerve to tensor vagina femoris. 2. vVnterior crural nei've. 3. Branches to sartorius and rectus, 5. Upper nerve to vastus internus. 6. Lower nerve to vastus internus. 7. Internal saphenous. 8. Nerve to the pectineus.