LATERAL PERONEI MUSCLES, 4 63 r ' vertical parts of the long muscles to the front of the ankle, so as to render them able to bend that joint. The lower piece, K, is wide and thin internally but pointed and thick externally, and lies below the level of the ankle on the outer side. Externally it is fixed into the upper surface of the os calcis close to the interosseous ligament, and internally into the tibial malleolus and the plantar fascia; and it blends with the deep fascia by its edges. Three sheaths for tendons are constructed in it; an inner for the tibialis anticus, an outer for the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius, and an intermediate one for the extensor proprius pollicis. A synovial sac lubricates each sheath, , and the inner one is continued into the compartment in the upper j piece, J, of the ligament. The use of this part is to bind hori- ■ zontally the tendons of the long extensors to the foot, in order that they may act on the ankle as well as the digits. Lateral muscles of the leg.—Two muscles enter into 'i| this group ; and as they are attached to the fibula they are ^ I named peronei. The ideroneus longus, H, the highest and most superficial of i the two, arises from the outer or anterior surface of the upper '^j half of the fibula, though gradually diminishing in width down- ^ wards; from the external border of that bone by thin fleshy If' fibres, behind the peroneus brevis, as low as the inferior fifth ; and 1^1 from the fascia incasing the muscle. Its long tendon passes through an annular ligament behind the outer malleolus, and ' through a separate sheath of fibro-cartilage, 0, on the outer side of J^'jithe OS calcis to reach its insertion in the sole of the foot (p. 451). m Superficial in the leg it rests on the fibula and the peroneus 'brevis, concealing altogether this muscle above, but only in part in below. By means of the sheath attaching it to the bones the i peroneus can move both the ankle joint and the foot. In the • sole of the foot it lies deeply, and is received into a third fibrous " sheath (Plate lvii. Fig. 2. Q). li'l The muscle is able, when the foot is unsupported, to extend the : mkle, and to raise the outer border of the instep, depressing at ihe same time the inner edge and the great toe. The foot being immoveable the peronens longus will elevate the