454 DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. The external plantar artery of the foot answers to the ulnar artery of the hand; it resembles that vessel in furnishing digital branches to three toes and a half, and in forming an arch which communicates internally with the other leading vessel of the limb. But the following marked differences exist in the mode of ending of the two main bloodvessels of the limbs. In the foot there is but one arch in which both tibials are united ; and the plantar arch thus formed has a deep position in the sole of the foot, where it lies in contact with the interossei. In the hand on the contrary there are two distinct palmar arches—superficial and deep, which communicate through the intervention of small branches : of these, the former is continuous with the ulnar artery, and the latter with the radial. On comparing also the muscular offsets of the arterial trunks, in the hand and foot considerable dissimilarity will be found, as in the nerves, on account of the want of uniformity in the muscles of the two parts. Wounds of the plantar arch can take place but seldom in con- sequence of the vessel being protected by the shoe, and the depth of the soft parts. If it was opened it would bleed freely, as in injury of the palmar arch, from its free inosculation with the anterior tibial artery. With bleeding from a wound in the foot, such as would lead to the supposition that the arch itself, or one or more of the digital arteries close to their origin from it had been opened, the flow of blood would generally be arrested by pressure applied to the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the tarsus, to the posterior tibial between the heel and ankle, and to the wound in the foot by a graduated compress, as in the case of wounds of the palm of the hand. Should considerable recurrent bleeding still take place, ligature of one or both of the tibials may be tried, to cut off the free supply of blood to the foot. Dorsal artery of the foot, I. This artery is a continuation of the anterior tibial trunk (Plate LViii.), and furnishes digital branches to one toe and a half. It enters the sole at the back of the first interosseous space, and ends by joining the plantar arch