389 NERVES OF THE BUTTOCK. formis, where the plexus ends: they may be arranged into branches to the limb, to the perinseum, and to some external rotator muscles. By the side of the gluteal artery is the superior gluteal nerve, which is not derived from the plexus ; and on the great sacro-sciatic ligament lies a branch of the sacral nerves. 1. Cutaneous branch of the sacral nerves. 2. Pudic nerve. 3. Nerve to the obturator internus. 4. Branch to the upper gemelhis. 5. Branch to the quadratus femoris. 6. Upper branches to the gluteus maximus. 7. Small sciatic nerve. 8. Lower branches to the gluteus maximus. 9. Inferior pudendal nerve. 10. Cutaneous of the buttock and inner part of the thigh. 11. Great sciatic nerve. 12. Muscular branch of the great sciatic. 13. Superior gliiteal nerve. 14. Iliac branch of ilio-hypogastric. ++ Cutaneous of the posterior trunks of the lumbar nerves. The small sciatic 7ierve, 7, is chiefly a cutaneous nerve of the buttock, scrotum, and back of the limb, for only one muscle (glu- teus maximus) receives branches from it. It begins by two or more pieces in the lower part of the sacral plexus, and takes the course of the sciatic artery over some of the external rotators, as far as the lower border of the gluteus maximus : here the nerve furnishes many branches (Plate xlviii.), and is continued beneath the fascia of the thigh with a branch of artery to the integuments of the calf of the leg. Its offsets are these Muscular or gluteal branches, 8, enter the lower part of the gluteus maximus : they are called inferior gluteal, to distinguish them from the branches of the superior gluteal nerve, for the smaller glutei muscles. The inferior pudendal, 9, winds beneath the fascia lata, and below the ischial tuberosity, near which it becomes cutaneous to end in the scrotum or the labium (Plate xxxi.). Cutaneous branches of the buttock and thigh, 10. The branches of the buttock run backwards over the gluteus maximus, and are better shown in Plate xlviii. The thigh-branches are inclined downwards and inwards, and piercing the fascia lata, end in the integuments of the upper third of the thigh on the inner aspect.