DISSECTIOI^ OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. 422 it is crossed near the ending by the small tendon of the plan- taris, and its point of splitting into the tibials is concealed by the soleus, J. Beneath it lies the popliteus, I. Superficial and close to the artery is the popliteal vein, which gradually inclines inwards, so as to be placed altogether inside at the lower border of the popliteus. The internal popliteal nerve, coursing along the blood-vessel, changes its position to the artery in the same manner as the vein ; for opposite the back of the knee-joint it lies between the vessel and the surface, but is internal to the artery at the lower i border of the popliteus. | Branches. From this part of the popliteal arise the lower muscular offsets, and the lower pair of articular arteries. The lower muscular branches are furnished to the muscles of the calf, viz., gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris. Branches to the gastrocnemius, c and d. Two in number, they are named, commonly, sural. The artery, c, enters the inner fleshy belly of the muscle ; and the vessel, cl, ramifying in thei outer belly, gives a small offset to the plantaris. ' Branch to the soleus, h. Accompanying the nerve of the same name, it pierces the upper part of its muscle at the cutaneous aspect. The loiver ^jair of articular arteries are directed, one outwards the other inwards, to the front of the knee-joint. The outer, e, runs above the head of the fibula and beneatl the external lateral ligament to the outer part of the knee where it anastomoses with the other articular arteries over th joint. The inner, f, lying at a lower level than its fellow, passe beneath the internal lateral ligament to the inner side of th articulation, and terminates like the other. A small articuh nerve takes the same course. The 2m2Jliteal vein, h, begins by the union of the anterior an posterior tibial veins at the spot where the artery ends. Intern! to the artery at first, it becomes afterwards superficial, and the external, as before said. The branches joining it in this part a: companions to those of the artery.