ANTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. 467 are unnamed ; and those oil the outer side, which are rather larger, are named tarsal, metatarsal, and interosseous, from their distribution. The tarsal hranch, Tc, arises opposite the scaphoid bone, and is directed beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to the outer part of the tarsus ; it gives branches to that muscle, and anastomoses with the arteries before and behind it, viz. metatarsal, n, and anterior communicating of the peroneal, /. The metatarsal branch, n, leaves the trunk at the fore part of the tarsus, and runs outwards across the base of the metatarsal bones to the border of the foot, where it anastomoses with the tarsal and external plantar arteries. In its course it lies beneath the short extensor, and forms an arch, from the fore part of which the following small interosseous arteries proceed :— The dorsal interossei, o, of the three outer spaces spring from the metatarsal branch, and run forwards to the cleft of the toes. Here each bifurcates, and the small resulting branches are con- tinued to the end of the toes as the dorsal digital arteries : the most external furnishes also a branch to the outer side of the little toe. From the beginning of each interosseous branch a piece descends to the sole of the foot to unite with the plantar arch ; and from the ending springs another offset to enter a digital artery : these are named anterior and posterior perforating branches (p. 453). First dorsal interosseous branch, I, arises from the dorsal artery as this is about to sink into the sole : it is continued forwards in the first space, in the same manner as the other arteries, and divides like them for the sides of the first two toes. The space receives offsets from it. Branch of the peroneal artery, j. The anterior communicating- branch of this artery (p. 432) comes through the aperture in the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and descends in front of the outer malleolus to the tarsus, where it distributes many branches : above it anastomoses with the external malleolar, and ' below with the tarsal artery. Venoi comites. The anterior tibial veins have the same extent and connections as the artery, and end above in the popliteal H H 2