DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 3€8 trochanter, the line leading from the trochanter to the linea aspera, the upper half or more of the linea aspera ; and it arises also from the contignous external intermuscular septum.* For the most part tendinous above, it becomes fleshy lower down, and the fibres end inferiorly in the common tendon of insertion, some joining the rectus tendon and the patella. The upper part of the muscle is overlaid by the rectus and tensor vaginae femoris. Beneath this vastus lie the inner vastus in part, and branches of the external circumflex artery and anterior crural nerve. Its lower tendon occupies the under surface, and extends upwards along the anterior or free edge of the muscle. The vastus int&rnus, F, constitutes the inner or large head of the extensor. It arises from the shaft of the femur except at the linea aspera and on the surfaces behind included by the lines pro- longed from that ridge of bone to the trochanters in one direction and the condyles in the other, f Necessarily the fibres cannot be fixed where the outer vastus takes origin ; and they are absent from the ends of the femur, for they reach upwards only to the anterior intertrochanteric line, and cease below near the articular surface of the knee-joint. Most of the fleshy fibres are received on the superficial apo- neurosis, which unites with the other heads in the common tendon of insertion, whilst some superficial fibres terminate on the tendon of the rectus and on the patella. The upper part of the muscle is deeply placed beneath the rectus and sartorius, and vessels and nerves (Plate xly.). Along the inner side lie the flexors and adductors of the hip-joint and the large blood vessels of the limb. Towards the knee the muscle * The origin of the muscle here specified is that given by Cruveilhier and Theile, and is not so extensive as that assigned to it in English anatomical works : it resembles closely the attachment of the outer head of the triceps extensor brachii. f This mass is described commonly as consisting of two muscles, vastus internus and crureus. Naturally there is not any separation between the two on the surface ; and if a division is desired the mass is to be cut through longitudinally where the anterior and inner surfaces of the femur meet.