408 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE THIGH. muscle, where it divides into two—anterior and posterior tibial arteries. As its connections in the lower part of the thigh differ greatly from those in the leg, it may be divided into two parts for the purposes of description. The upper and longer part, i, reaches to the knee-joint, and is contained in the popliteal space. It is placed deeply in the upper part of the ham, but it becomes more superficial below in conse- quence of the projection backwards of the femur, and the decreas- ing thickness of the limb. Its direction is oblique fi'om the inner side of the femur to the middle of the joint. At first it is over- lapped by the semimembranosus, K, as far as the condyles of the femur, but thence to the joint it is covered by the teguments, the fascia lata, the fat, and by veins and nerves. Beneath the vessel, from above down, are placed the lower end of the femur, and the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. Above the con- dyles of the femur the artery is nearer the inner than the outer side of the space; and beyond that point it lies between, and close to the heads of the gastrocnemius, L and N, with the plantaris. The popliteal vein, o, is closely united to the artery throughout, but it changes its position in the following way :—as far as the condyles of the femur the vein is superficial and external, so as to leave only a narrow arterial strip visible internally, but onwards to the joint the vein covers the artery. Over the artery between the heads of the gastrocnemius lies the short saphenous vein, with cutaneous and muscular branches of arteries, veins, and nerves. Two nerves accompany the artery, viz. the internal popliteal and the obturator. The popliteal trunk passes vertically along the middle of the limb, from the upper to the lower point of the ham, and lies external to, and much more superficial than the bloodvessels; but between the condyles of the femur it is brought much nearer to the vessels, and lower down, between the heads of the gastrocnemius, it is placed over the artery and vein. Some of the branches of this large trunk come into contact with the artery:—thus the posterior articular nerve to the joint, 2, crosses under the artery; and the short saphenous nerve, 4, lies over the