DEEP MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. 451 The chief office of these muscles is to approximate the four outer toes towards, or to remove them from the great toe ; and they act therefore as abductors and adductors of those digits to the inner one. For instance the three plantar and the innermost dorsal muscle adduct the four smaller to the larger toe ; and the remainin,^ three muscles of the dorsal set will move the second, third, and fourth, toes away from that digit, so as to become abductors. When the four outer toes are being bent by the action of the flexors the interossei will help in the completion of the move- ment ; and when the digits have been extended these muscles will serve to fix the first phalanges against the metatarsal bones. Tendon of the peronem longus, Q. The fleshy belly of the muscle in the leg is delineated in the following Plate ; and only j part of the course of its tendon, and the insertion, appear in this I Figure. As now seen, the tendon winds round the outer surface 1 of the OS calcis to cross the foot from the outer to the inner side. I At first it is received into a groove in the cuboid bone, and is I then continued forwards to be inserted into the base of the meta- ! tarsal bone of the great toe, and into the fore part of the internal cuneiform bone; sometimes also by a slip into the base of the second metatarsal bone. ' As the tendon crosses the sole it is contained in a sheath which is formed towards the outer part by the long plantar ligament, U, ijmd the cuboid bone, and at the inner part by areolar tissue; and li j.ts motion in the sheath is facilitated by a synovial sac which .3 jxtends to the insertion. On the outer aspect of the cuboid bone i j,he tendon becomes flattened and thickened, and at that spot it iili^ntains either fibro-cartilage or a sesamoid bone. : Insertion of the tibialis posticus, T. Arising at the back of the eg (Plate lv.) its tendon passes along the inner side of the loot, supporting the articulation between the astragalus and paphoid bone, and is inserted into the tubercle on the inner and ijnder part of the os scaphoides. From the insertion processes ta|i?e continued to several of the tarsal and metatarsal bones :—one, reaches the internal cuneiform ; another, Y, is attached to the iddle cuneiform and the second metatarsal; a third, W, is pro-