453 PLANTAR ARCH AND BRANCHES. The digital Iranchcs, four in number, are furnished to the three outer toes and half the second. Each, except the most external, splits at the cleft of the toes to supply the contiguous sides of two; and at the point of division springs a small branch {anterior perforating), which passes downwards to anastomose with the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the foot. Whilst they lie on the interossei small offsets are emitted to those muscles. The first branch, d, lying on the outside of the small toe, remains single to the end of the digit, and supplies cutaneous branches to the outer part of the foot, like the nerve. The second, i, placed over the fourth interosseous space may communicate with the former by a cross piece (Plate lvii.) ; it gives an offset to the fourth lumbricalis, and branches for the sides of the fifth and fourth digits. The third corresponds with the third space, and furnishes offsets to the third lumbricalis and the transversalis pedis : its two terminal pieces belong to the sides of the fourth and third toes. The fourth may supply the second lumbricalis; and it ends on the sides of the third and second digits. On the toes the arteries are continued to the extremity, one on each side; and they unite in an arch on the plantar surface of the last phalanx, from which fine branches are sent to the tip of the digit. At the extremity of the second toe the branch derived from the plantar arch anastomoses with the digital branch,/, of the dorsal artery of the foot. Whilst the arteries lie on the sides of the digits they furnish superficial offsets forwards and backwards, and communicate beneath the flexor tendons by means of cross branches behind the interphalangeal articulations, as in the fingers. Three posterior perforating tranches, s, pass down from the arch between the lateral attachments of the dorsal interossei muscles of the outer three spaces, and anastomose with the interosseous i arteries on the dorsum of the foot. Some small nutritive and muscular branches take their origin from the arch, and from the digital arteries.