448 DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. The dee}) part of the external plantar nerve, 5, is directed in- wards beneath the flexor perforans and the lubricales, and ends in branches for the adductor pollicis, E. In this course it accom- panies the external plantar artery, and distributes offsets to the neighbouring muscles of the third and fourth strata, which are referred to below:— To the under surface of the adductor pollicis two or three branches (the terminal pieces of the nerve) are distributed : one is shown piercing the outer border. A slender branch, 6, enters the transversalis pedis : in this foot it was divided into two. For each of the outer two lumbricales there is a small branch of nerve, f, which enters the under surface with an arterial offset. Commonly these branches are destroyed as the long flexor muscle is raised. All the interossei receive branches from the external plantar, but these are more fully illustrated in Fig. ii. In its distribution in the foot this nerve resembles closely the ulnar nerve in the hand. Like its representative in the other member it gives many muscular and but few digital branches. Thus it supplies one digit and a half, and the teguments of that border of the foot which is in a line with the smallest digit. Like the ulnar too it furnishes branches to all the muscles of the small digit, and to the adductor of the large digit; and in the same way as that nerve it sends offsets to the outer two lumbri- cales and to all the interossei. Differences in the distribution of the two nerves are due to a want of similarity in the muscles of the first and fifth digits, and to the existence of some special muscles in each member. For instance the opponens or adductor minimi digiti is present in the hand but not in the foot, ^nd will have a separate branch from the ulnar. The short flexor of the thumb is a less simple muscle than that of the great toe, and is supplied in part (inner head) by Ij^kkk^i the ulnar ; whilst the external plantar does not reach the homolo- gous muscle in the foot. One special muscle in the hand (palmaris brevis) is supplied by iieiitsof the ulnar; and two special muscles in the foot (accessorius and