446 DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. MUSCLES OF THE THIRD LAYER. This stratum consists chiefly of the short muscles of the first and fifth digits, which reach scarcely farther back than the meta- tarsal bones : they are the short flexor and adductor of the great toe, the short flexor of the little toe, and a fourth muscle (transversalis pedis) which crosses the heads of the metatarsal bones. ISr. Flexor brevis pollicis. O. Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Q. Peroneus loiigus. R. Adductor pollicis. S. Trausversalis pedis, T. Part of the tendon of the ti- bialis posticus. U. Long plantar ligament. The flexor hrevis pollicis, N, the most internal muscle of the set, is pointed and tendinous behind, but is split anteriorly into ^ two pieces or heads. Its tendon is attached posteriorly to the,ii^^ cuboid bone, and blends with the prolongation, T, from the tendon" of the tibialis posticus to the outer cuneiform bone. Towards the ^ d' I front of the metatarsal bone it is divided into two heads, and these are inserted into the base of the first phalanx,—the inner joining ffthe abductor pollicis, A, and the outer blending with the j| ductor, R. . ' Superficial to the muscle is the tendon of the long flexor; and underneath it lie the deep vessels of the foot. In each head of insertion a sesamoid bone is contained. The muscle draws towards the sole the metatarsal phalanx, to which the long flexor tendon is not attached, and thus bends the metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe. The adductor jJoUicis, R, arises behind from the sheath of the ' peroneus longus tendon, Q, and from the bases of the second, 2, ' i third," anci'"fourth, metatarsal bones. In front it joins the outer ^Tv^'lgital head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and is inserted into the outer ^ j^j^^-^ side of the first phalanx of the great toe. It is concealed by the flexor perforans and the lumbricales; it covers some of the interossei, and the external plantar vessels -| ^ ^i' and nerve. United with it at the insertion is the transversalis pedis. 3. Ex i Sill