DEEP VESSEJ.S OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. fleshy fibres arc also attached to the aponeurosis covering the surface. Inferiorly tlie muscle passes between the tibia and the flexor longus digitorum ; and its tendon is transmitted to the foot through the inner space of the annular ligament, lying in the groove in the inner malleolus. Its insertion into the scaphoid and other bones of the foot appears in Plate lvii. Fig. 2. Situate between the flexors of the digits, the tibialis is covered by the thin aponeurosis which is fixed into the leg-bones, and superficial to all is thesolcus : on it lie the tibial vessels and nerve for the upper half. Beneath it is the interosseous membrane. Superiorly there is an interval between its attachments to the bones, through which the anterior tibial vessels pass; and inferiorly the muscle is directed inwards beneath the flexor longus digitorum. Should the foot be free to be moved the tibialis posticus will draw it down and back so as to extend the ankle, and will direct inwards the great toe. If the foot rests on the ground, the muscle uniting in its action with the tibialis anticus will raise the inner edge, as in standing on the outer border of the foot. When the bones of the leg slant forwards, as in stooping, the muscle taking its fixed ixnwi brlow will combine wiili the deep flexors of the digits in bringing back the tibia over the a^tragahis, as the leg is straightened. DEEP VESSELS OF THE BACK OF THE LEG. At the back of the leg, as on the front of tlie forearm, tlie main artery of the limb bifurcates just beyond tlie joint, ami I'vom the chief of the two pieces into which it splits is given a third artery, so that in each member there exists one leading vessel where there is a single bone, and three where there are two bones. Arteries. Veins. a. Popliteal trunk. b. Lower and external articular. c. Lower internal articular. d. Anterior tibial trunk. c. Peroneal trunk. /. Continuation of peroneal. g. Posterior tibial truuk. I: Popliteal trunk. /. Peroneal vena?, comites. 71. Venie comites, posterior tibial. 0. Communicating from deep to superficial veins. Internal saphenous.