369 EXTENSOR MUSCLE OF THE KNEE. becomes prominent and makes a larger surface-swelling than the vastus externus on the outer side. Common tendon of the extensor, P. Above the joint it is formed by the union of the tendons of the three heads ; and it is con- tinued over the knee-joint, diminishing in width, to be inserted into the tubercle of the tibia, and into an inch of the bone below; between the prominence of the tubercle and the tendon is a small bursa. Contained in the tendon is the patella, N, which com- pletely divides it iiito an upper and a lower part:—The upper wide part intervenes between the fleshy fibres and the base of the patella ; and the lower, nartower partj called oftentines ligament of the patella, fixes the apex of that bone to the tibia. A very thin layer of tendinous fibres passes over the cutaneous surfa^ce of the patella. An aponeurotic expansion, 0, is prolonged from the upper part of the tendon over the patella and the knee-joint, and is fixed into the bones of the leg. On the knee it unites with the fascia lata, and with prolongations from the lateral flexors to form a capsule for the knee-joint. Suhcrureus. Under the extensor, on the lower fourth of the femur, lie gome scattered fleshy fibres, arranged frequently in an outer and an inner fasciculus, which are inserted inferiorly into the synovial membrane of the knee- joint. Action of the extensor. The use of the muscle will vary with the fixed or moveable condition of the bones of the limb to which it is attached. If the tibia is free to be moved all three heads will advance this bone on the articular surfaces of the femur, and so extend the knee-joint. Should the tibia be immoveable, as in rising from a stooping posture, or in walking, the femur and pelvis will be brought forwards over it. By the continued con- traction of the muscles, after those bones are in a straight line, the body will be supported in standing by the action of the rectus on the pelvis, and of the two vasti on the femur. The fibres of the subcrureus draw upwards the synovial membrane of the knee- joint as the tibia and femur come into a straight line in extension ; and they are supposed to remove that membrane out of the way of pressure by the patella, B B