362 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. femur, the hip and knee-joints being slightly bent at the time, and the thigh rotated out. This line is to serve both as the superficial and the deep guide ; and if it is not accurately taken and strictly kept some difficulty may be experienced in finding the artery, as there is not any deep part to direct the operator to the position of the blood vessel. In executing the steps of the operation the fore finger of the left hand is placed opposite the part of the vessel to be tied, and the knife incises the integuments for three inches, the centre of the cut being marked by the finger ; and as there may be a large branch of the saphenous vein crossing the artery the knife should be used cautiously at this stage. The fascia lata should next be cut for the same extent as the skin and fat. Then the fibres of the sartorius, which are inclined downwards and inwards, will appear in the bottom of the wound. This muscle is next to be reflected with care from the artery, and to be drawn to the outer side of the wound ; and underneath the spot occupied by the sartorius the femoral artery may be recognised during life by its pulsation, and in the dead body by its colour. The next step is to detach the artery from the surrounding parts. For this purpose seize the areolar sheath with a forceps, and open it with a part of the scalpel at some little distance from the point, avoiding if possible the internal cutaneous nerve. The sheath being still held in the forceps, separate the artery from this and the companion vein by a blunt instrument, such as a director, introduced through the opening in the areolar investment. Eaising the sheath with the forceps the operator introduces the aneurism needle between the artery and vein ; and then elevating the opposite side of the sheath, he passes the instrument gently round the artery. Finally setting free the thread from the needle in the usual way, the surgeon ligatures the femoral trunk; but in the living body he ascertains beforehand that the vessel pulsates on compression with the finger. Gentleness and tact are required in passing the needle, lest the instrument should pierce either of the large blood vessels ; but if the aneurism needle is carried from right to left, puucture of either is less likely to happen than if it is moved in the opposite direction.