444 DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. dinous, and ends most commonly by joining the flexor perforans and the slip of the flexor pollicis, so as to assist in forming the tendons for the second, third, and fourth, digits.* On the muscle rest the external plantar nerve and vessels, and the flexor perforatus ; and under it lie the os calcis and the long plantar ligament. Between the heads of origin of the muscle a piece of the plantar ligament appears. Supposing the long flexor to act alone the four outer toes would be bent somewhat under each other ; but when the accessorius contracts it opposes that oblique inward movement of the digits, and with the help of the flexor perforatus bends the toes directly back. Lumlricales, H. Four in number, they serve as accessory flexor muscles to the four outer toes ; and are named first, second, &c., from the inner to the outer side of the foot. They take origin behind from the pieces into which the flexor perforans splits, the most internal being fixed commonly to only one, and each of the others to two tendinous slips. Near the metatarso- phalangeal articulation each ends in a tendon, which passes at the tibial side of the toe to join the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the first phalanx: as they bend down by the sides of the joints they are closely attached to the metatarsal phalanx, or are connected with it by a thin tendinous slip. The muscles decrease in size from the first to the fourth. At the root of the toes they become cutaneous between the processes of the plantar fascia, with the digital nerves and arteries, and they appear there even before the removal of the superficial flexor muscle (Fig. i.). Contracting with the long flexor these muscles bring towards the sole the metatarsal phalanges, thus serving as flexors of the metatarso-phalangeal joints of the four outer toes. Plantar arteries. In the second Figure the course of these vessels between the first two strata of muscles may be observed. Of the two the external is the largest, and furnishes most digital * Professor Turner in the Paper (Trans, of the Eoy. Soc. of Edinb.) before referred to.