431 PERONEAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. tibial part, and ramifies on the head of the tibia and the inner side of the knee-joint. The remaining offsets enter the tibialis posticus and the flexors of the digits. Cutaneous offsets. Some small branches pierce the fascia in the lower half of the leg, and end in the teguments (Plate liii.) : one or two of this set arising near the anlde, run with the cutaneous plantar nerve, 7, to the sole of the foot. Nutritions of the shaft of the tilia. It is derived from one of the upper muscular branches, and pierces the fibres of the tibialis posticus to enter the canal on the posterior surface of the bone. A communicating hrmich is directed transversely outwards across the lower end of the tibia to join with a like offset from the peroneal artery; it is concealed by the flexor longus poUicis. The articular t)ranclies arise from the artery opposite the ankle- joint, and are distributed to that articulation. The vencB comites, n, of the posterior tibial artery lie on the sides of that vessel, over which they are united by cross pieces : they have the same extent as the artery, viz., from the foot to the lower border of the popliteus. Above, they unite with the anterior tibial veins to form the popliteal vein. At the lower part of the leg they are thick and strong. The peroneal artery, e, is the largest branch of the posterior tibial, and arises one inch and a half from the beginning of that trunk. To reach the fibula it passes between the soleus and the tibialis posticus ; and it is then continued along that bone, con- tained in the fibres of the flexor pollicis. Much diminished in size at the lower part of the interosseous membrane, the vessel, /, IS continued behind the external malleolus to the outer side of the heel; here it ends in branches, of which some supply the foot, and others anastomose with oflPsets of the posterior tibial, and external plantar and tarsal arteries. Two companion veins run with the artery, and the nerve to the flexor pollicis lies on it oftentimes. Its tranches are muscular and communicating, but they are concealed by the flexor pollicis. Muscular tranches enter the muscles with which it is in con- tact, viz., soleus, tibialis, and flexor pollicis ; and some wind round