392 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. lower gemellus. On it lie the gluteal vessels, and the superior gluteal nerve. In its action the muscle resembles the gluteus medius. For if the femur hangs loosely it will be abducted : and it may be rotated in by the anterior transverse fibres. When the body is supported on both legs this gluteus will act in balancing the pelvis ; and when the trunk is rotated on one limb it will bring the face to the same side. At the beginning of a step in walking it advances the hindmost leg with the gluteus medius, and then inclines the pelvis over the supporting femur whilst the swinging limb is put forwards. OMurator internus and gemelU. On cutting through the obtu- rator, G, and raising the inner end, three or four tendinous pieces, separated by fleshy intervals, will appear on the under surface ; and the subjacent bone will be seen to be provided with ridges of fibro-cartilage, which correspond with the fleshy interspaces. A synovial membrane lubricates the surfaces. Near the pelvis the gemelli muscles, F and H, approach each other beneath the obturator, but near the femur they cover the tendon of the obturator ; and all three of them pass beneath the pyriformis to be inserted in front of it into the trochanter and the neck of the femur. In the Drawing the muscles are separated fi'om each other to show the nerve to the quadratus, 8, and its accompanying artery. The obturator extermis, J, arises from the outer surface (in part) of the obturator membrane, and from the bone bounding anteriorly the thyroid hole. From this widened attachment the fibres are directed almost horizontally backwards to a tendon, which is inserted into the pit at the root of the trochanter. At the fore part of the thigh the obturator is covered by the adductors (Plate xxxvii.); and in the second view of the buttock it is concealed by the quadratus femoris, I, except a part of the tendon which is apparent between the upper border of the qua- dratus and the inferior gemellus (Plate xlix.) As the muscle passes from the front to the back of the limb it spreads over and supports the lower part of the hip-joint. Escaping beneath its ower border is the internal circumflex artery.