niSSKA'TlON OV Till", r.AC'K C'F TITK LF.O, tlio liiiulor border of this bone. Ami between the two bones it is eoniioeted witli a tendinous band, wliieli bridges over the popliteal vessels and nerves. About midway between the knee and the heel tl\e tleshy libres end in a tendon, whieh blends with that of the g;istroeneiniu^. On the eutaneous surtaee rest the plantaris and gastrocnemius ; and underneath the solens are the dee}i nuiseles of the leg, with the main blood-vessels and nerve of the limb. Tlie fibnlar attaehmettt is thiek and tleshy. and the tibial, thinner than the other, is aponeurotie on the under surtaee iriate lx.). Pai-allel to tb.e npper border is the pojiliteus musele. I. The Teiido Achillu^. K. is formed by the union of the aponeu- roses of the g-astroeneinius and solens about half way down the leg. At its upper end it measures about three inehes in width, atid is thin, but it gradually tapers downwards, beeoming thicker and rounded near the heel : and finally it is inserted by a some- what widened part into the lower half of the posterior surface of the OS eah-is. In Plato i.v, a bursa is shown, separating the tendon from the upper part of the bone. Comparatively super- hcitil throughout, it is covered only by the tegtmients and the deep fascia ; and along the outer side, below, are placed the short saphenous vein and nerve. In deformity of the foot with elevation of the heel division of the tendon is needful to allow the os calcis to be put in contact with [he ground. In the execution of this operation the cutting instrument is entered beneath the tendon about an inch above the heel, and on the inner side : and the tendon being put on the stretch by forcible flexion of the ankle, the knife is carried outwards through it, with a sawing movement, care being taken not to divide the integuments as the last part of the tendon is cut through. Sometimes the tendon is rnptm-ed across in the living body by the forcible and sudden action of the fleshy fibres. When this accident happens, the broken ends are separated widely, the upj)er fragment being raised by the contraction of the fleshy bellies, and the lower piece being depressed by the descent of the os calcis through flexion of the ankle. With the riew of approxi-