425 FLEXOR MUSCLES OF THE DIGITS. A special aponeurosis covers the muscle, and separates it from other parts. Towards the surface the popliteus 'is concealed by the gastrocnemius and plantaris ; and is crossed by the popliteal vessels and the internal popliteal nerve. Beneath it is the tibio- peroneal joint vs^ith the upper end of the tibia. Along part of the upper border run the lower internal articular vessels and nerve; and contiguous to the lower edge is the soleus muscle. The tendon of origin within the capsule of the knee is surrounded by the synovial membrane in the same way as the biceps is incased in the shoulder-joint. By the contraction of the muscle the tibia will be moved back- wards towards the femur, producing flexion of the knee; and after the joint has been bent the popliteus can turn in the tibia, so as to give rise to rotation inwards of the foot. The flexor longus loollkk^ D, is the most external of the three muscles entering the foot. Placed over the fibula, it takes origin from the posterior surface of that bone below the soleus, except about an inch inferiorly; its fibres are further attached internally to an aponeurosis covering the tibialis posticus, and externally to the fascia separating it from the peronei muscles. Near the ankle the muscle ends in a tendon, which is continued to the foot through a separate compartment in the annular ligament, and along a groove in the astragalus ; its further course through the foot to the great toe is shown in Plate lvi. The upper part of the muscle is covered by the soleus; and the lower, which lies outside the tendo Achillis, is in contact with the deep fascia. The muscle rests on the fibula, its length of attach- ment to the bone varying with that of the soleus, and it conceals in part the tibialis posticus. In its fibres are contained the peroneal vessels. By the outer border it is contiguous to the peronei muscles, only fascia intervening ; and by the inner edge it touches the posterior tibial nerve for its lower two thirds, but this connection has been destroyed by the displacement of the muscle. With the foot hanging the first action of the muscle will be mployed in bending the great toe, and the next in extending the :le. When the foot is fixed this flexor assists the special