DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 378 6. Lower nerve to vastus internus. 7. Internal saphenous nerve. 8. Patellar branch of saphenous. 9. Accessory obturator nerve. 10. Superficial part of the obturator. 11. Piece to the femoral artery. 12. Piece to join the internal cutaneous. 13. Deep part of the obturator. 14. Articular branch of the obtura- tor to the knee-joint. Anterior crural nerve, 2. The view of the nerve in this Plate is very similar to that in the preceding Figure : its description has been given at p. 264. The obturator nerve ramifies amongst the adductor muscles. Beginning in the lumbar plexus (p. 309), it leaves the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen, and divides into two pieces, superficial and deep, as it escapes from the cavity. It is especially the nerve of the adductors, for it supplies all the muscles of the group except the pectineus ; and it furnishes offsets also to one external rotator of the hip, viz. the obturator externus. The superficial part, 10, ends on the femoral artery ; and it is directed to its vessel over the adductor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and adductor longus.* It furnishes branches to the adductor brevis and longus, and to the gracilis ; and it com- municates by the offset, 12, with the internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve. Before this part of the obturator nerve reaches the thigh it gives an articular branch to the hip-joint; and beneath the pectineus it is joined (sometimes) by a communicating offset of the accessory obturator nerve, 9. The dee^) part of the nerve, 13, pierces the fibres of the external obturator muscle and is continued into the thigh beneath the adductor brevis, furnishing branches to this muscle and the adductor magnus ; and from the ending a long slender articular filament is continued through the adductor magnus, near the opening for the femoral vessels, to supply the popliteal artery * In the Figure the nerve appears to cross over the ad, longns, but this is occasioned by the muscle being cut, and the nerve being displaced ; its natural position to that muscle is given in Plate xlv.