EXTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE. 441 It begins inside the heel with the internal, plantar (Fig. ii.), and is directed outwards across the foot towards the back of the fourth interosseous space, where it sends off digital branches, and then sinks into the sole of the foot with the external plantar artery to end in deep muscles: its termination may be ascertained in Plate LVii. In this course the nerve lies at first under the abductor pollicis, nextly between the flexor brevis digitorum and flexor accessorius, and lastly in the intermuscular space between the flexor of the digits and the abductor minimi digiti. It is accompanied by the external plantar artery and vense comites, but the nerve is not always situate on the same side. From this part of the nerve branches are sent to the abductor of the little toe, and the flexor accessorius: these are visible in Fig. ii. The digital hmnches, two in number, run forwards beneath the plantar fascia, and become subcutaneous near the toes, between the digital processes of that fascia : but the most external nerve pierces the fascia farther back than the other. One of the two (internal) splits at the front of the fourth interosseous space, like the branches of the other plantar nerve, to end in the adjacent borders of the fourth and fifth toes ; but the other remains un- divided on the outer side of the little toe. As these branches are continued along the toes they have the same arrangement as the digital branches of the internal plantar nerve. The branch for the outer side of the little toe, 10, gives many cutaneous offsets to the anterior half of the outer border of the foot: it may supply also the contiguous muscles, viz., the flexor minimi digiti, 0, and the interossei of the fourth space. The branch, 9, which ramifies in the collateral sides of the fifth and fourth toes, communicates by means of the branch, 8, with the internal plantar, but does not supply any muscle. Figure II. The second layer of muscles of the foot, and the trunks of the plantar vessels and nerves may be studied with this Figure. To obtain this view the first layer of muscles is to be cut