876 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. a. Femoral artery. h. Circumflex iliac branch. c. Epigastric branch. d. Profunda, or deep femoral. e. External circumflex branch. /. Internal circumflex branch. g. Muscular branch of circumflex. First perforating artery. Second perforating. Third perforating. Continuation of profunda, foixrth perforating. Anastomotic branch. The profunda artery, d, arises from the femoral trunk about one inch and a half below Poupart's ligament; and it is called sometimes deep femoral from its position to the parent trunk. (V*^^^, -— It courses on the inner side of the femur parallel to, but beneath the femoral trunk, as far as the lower third of the thigh, where a , fine branch continues it onwards to the back of the limb. It has /uA^yUv^ the following connections with muscles:—At first it rests on the iliacus, and appears external to the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangular space; then it is directed down and in under the femoral vessels, lying over the peotineus and adductor brevis; finally it enters beneath the adductor longus, and ends in a small ^^j^j^^^^^^^ perforating branch to the back of the thigh. Its named offsets are two circumflex, and four perfoijiing; but it furnishes also large unnamed muscular and anastomotic branches. Circumflex branches. Two in number, they wind backwards, one inside and the other outside the femur, like the corresponding arteries in the upper limb, and communicate at the back of the thigh, The external circumflex, e, is consumed chiefly in the extensor muscle of the knee-joint (p. 370), and its ramifications are dis- played in Plates xlvi. and lii. The interned circumflex, f, bends back between the psoas, B, on the one side, and the pectineus and adductor brevis, G and K, on the other, and divides opposite the small trochanter into two terminal pieces—an ascending to the buttock, and a transverse to the back of the thigh (Plate l.). In this course it furnishes an articular branch to the hip-joint, and muscular offsets to the obturator externus and the adductors: the largest of these, g, passes beneath the adductor brevis, supply- ing it and the adductor maguus, and accompanies the deep part of the obturator nerve.