GASTEOCNEMIUS MUSCLE. 417 CXI IAs now seen the ham measures about three inches in length, id one and a half in width at the widest part; and its dimin- hed size is due to the approximation of the biceps, A, and ^mimembranosus, B, over the hollow. Like the axilla, the 3ace extends largely under the muscles though it has but a com- aratively small surface opening; and it is prolonged upwards tween the femur and the hamstrings. Tumours in the space, rojecting under the muscles bounding laterally the ham, would ot be recognised with facility in consequence of the fleshy )verings over them. Vessels. In the undisturbed state of the ham the popliteal sssels are laid bare only for a very short distance. About an ch of the popliteal artery, a, is visible—the part opposite the indyle of the femur, which comes from beneath the semimem- •anosus, and disappears under the inner head of the gastro- lemius. A muscular branch, leaves the trunk of the artery here, and pplies the biceps and semimembranosus : this furnishes a cuta- ous offset with the small sciatic nerve. About two inches of the pojjliteal vein can be seen lying ex- rnal to and in contact with the artery : at this spot the short phenous vein opens into it. Nerves. Yery unequal parts of the popliteal nerves appear in te hollow of the ham before the muscles are drawn apart from _ ch other. About three inches of the internal popliteal trunk is icovered ; but strictly speaking only an inch of the external )pliteal, for the greater part of the nerve here delineated lies It of the ham, and rests on the gastrocnemius and soleus uscles. Muscles of the calf of the leg. Three muscles form the calf of le leg, viz., gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, but only the rst is illustrated in this Figui-e. The gastrocnemius, the most superficial of the muscles of the If, consists of two halves or bellies, F and H, which unite below a common tendon. The inner half of the muscle is attached above by tendon the posterior part of the inner condyle of the femur, and by