435 FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. root of the toe, where it enters a fibrous sheath with a slip of the long flexor (Fig. ii.). Lastly, in the sheath the tendon of the short flexor, I, (Fig. ii.) is pierced opposite the metatarsal phalanx, as in the finger, for the passage of the tendon of the other muscle, J; and it is then inserted by two parts into the sides of the middle phalanx. The muscle is incased in a sheath of the plantar fascia, of which a piece has been shown on the surface. Along the outer side lies the abductor of the little toe, and along the inner, the abductor of the great toe. The parts covered by it are delineated in Fig. ii., viz. the tendons of the long flexors with the accessory muscles, and the plantar vessels and nerves. Its tendons de- crease in size from the inner to the outer side ; and that to the little toe may be very small and not pierced, or it may be even absent : near the toes they are crossed by the digital nerves. When this flexor contracts it will move the middle phalanges of the four outer toes towards the sole, bending the first phalangeal joint, as in the fingers. The abductor pollicis, A, the most internal muscle of the first layer, takes origin behind by a wide attachment to the inner part of the larger tubercle of the os calcis ; to the lower border of the internal annular ligament; to the inner side of the tarsus (its liga- mentous structures) as far forwards as the scaphoid bone; and to the plantar fascia, though not so largely as the other two muscles. Anteriorly it ends in a tendon, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe, in union with the inner head of the short flexor. Contained in a sheath of the plantar fascia, it is separated be- hind from the short flexor of the toes by an intermuscular parti- tion, and in front by the internal plantar vessels and nerve which issue between the two. In Fig. ii. the parts covered by it may be perceived, viz. the long flexor tendons, the accessory muscle, and the internal plantar vessels and nerve. As the name expresses the muscle will abduct slightly the great toe from the others; but as it lies almost parallel with the digit moved, it will be employed mainly in assisting the short flexor to bend the metatarso-phalangeal joint. F F 2