S80 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. of these, 8, which is larger than the rest, is distributed to the The lateral cutaneous of the last dorsal nerve, 1, descends from the abdominal wall over the fore part of the iliac crest, and con- tinues in the fat as far as the great trochanter. The iliac branch, 1', of the ilio-hypogastric nerve (p. 309) crosses the iliac crest close to the bone, and commonly behind the last dorsal: it extends to the fat over the great gluteal muscle. This nerve is sometimes large, and takes the place of the last dorsal; or it may be wanting. Posterior lumbar nerves, 2. Cutaneous branches of the posterior primary trunks of the lumbar nerves, commonly two in number, enter the teguments at the anterior border of the erector spina3 muscle, and are directed downwards over the gluteus towards the great trochanter. Posterior sacral nerves, 3. The posterior primary trunks of the first three sacral nerves pierce the fibres of the gluteus maximus, after uniting beneath it (Plate L.). Two or three become cuta' neous, and bend outwards over the gluteus ; the largest is oppo- site the end of the sacrum. Anterior sacral nerves, 4. Branches of the anterior primary trunks of the sacral nerves pierce the coccygeus and gluteus maxi- mus, and end in the neighbouring integuments. Two other small nerves of the perinseum issue beneath the lower edge of the gluteus. One is the perinceal branch, 5, of the fourth sacral nerve—and the other is the inferior hccmorrhoiclal nerve, 7, of the pudic. Both of these have been noticed in page 247. The small sciatic nerve, 10, of the sacral plexus apjoears at the lower border of the great gluteal muscle, and is then continued along the thigh (Plate Lii.). Near the lower border of the muscle it gives two sets of cutaneous branches—ascending and descending. The ascending or recurrent set, which are marked with 6, wind over the edge of the gluteus, and end in the integuments over the lower part of .that muscle. The descending set, shown by the number 9, supply the inte- guments of the inner part of the thigh below the buttock. One