BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. 469 of the foot, which has been above cited (p. 468), no bloodvessels will be met with by the usual incision in the liue of the artery ; but if the cut be made to reach the interosseous space, the wan- dering vessel may be recognised coming to the hinder part of that interval to enter the foot. Wound of tlie artery. Considerable bleeding would follow the opening of the artery on the dorsum of the foot on account of the free communication of the anterior with the posterior tibial blood- vessel. For the arrest of the haemorrhage two plans may be adopted. According to the one, two ligatures may be applied to the vessel, one above, and the other below the opening; and according to the other, pressure may be made on the trunk of the artery, and to the wound, whilst, if necessary, the flow of blood in the posterior tibial artery may be checked by the employment of a compress to that trunk. Lymphatics of the leg. Only a summary of these small vessels will here be given, as they are not indicated in the Figure. There are superficial and deep lymphatics with the bloodvessels, as in the upper limb. In the superficial set are two groups, one with each saphenous vein. The lymphatics with the short saphenous enter the popliteal glands ; and those with the long saphenous vein open into the inguinal glands. Enlargement and inflammation consequent on disease or irritation of the lymphatics on the opposite borders of the foot would affect different glands. The deep lymphatics run along the main arteries, and all converge to the popliteal glands. In connection with the lymphatics on the anterior tibial artery there is a small gland ; this is the lowest in the limb, and is to be found about half way down the leg. BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NEl^VE. The three terminal branches of the external popliteal nerve, viz. recurrent tibial, anterior tibial, and musculo-cutaneous, which begin between the fibula and the peroneus longus, are met with in the dissection of the front of the leg.