544 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY together. Dish up in a circle on a border of mashed potato; fill the centre with boiled macaroni, cut into half-inch lengths, and mix with an ounce of grated Parmesan, and sufficient sauce to hold it together. Serve either half-glaze round or a little sauce. Calves’ Brain Cutlets.—Soak the brains in tepid salted water, skin, and thoroughly cleanse in plenty of water, throw into boiling water and boil ten minutes, then into cold water to harden and whiten them; drain on a colander. Wien cold, shape into oval cutlets, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry a light brown in plenty of good boiling lard; drain and serve hot either with tomato sauce (round, not over), mushroom sauce, or plain white sauce made with milk or cream, and flavoured with a pinch of mace, cayenne, salt, teaspoonful of sherry, and a few drops of lemon-juice. • Croquette Fritters.—With about i lb. of either cold roast veal or fowl, or both, have about the" same weight of raw beef, and 4 oz. of the suet belonging to the latter. Re- move all gristle, skin, &c., then chop all together into as fine a mince as possible. The following ingredients must also be chopped finely: | lb. of mushrooms, one big truffle, two carrots, one onion, eight or ten oysters, and some spiigs of parsley. Mix everything together, season with pepper and salt, and form into a paste with mashed boiled chestnuts and as many eggs as are necessary. Spread some flour on a flat dish, drop the paste (a tablespoonful at a time), form into sausage shapes, dip into a savoury batter, and fry in boiling fat until a rich brown. Send to table nicely “piled up,” and garnished with parsley. Frying Batter.—Stir lightly J lb. of flour into a gill of warm water, with a tablespoonful of oil, a pinch of salt, and the well-whisked white of an egg. Work well, and allow it to stand a little before it is used. Curried Mutton.—Ingredients: 2 lbs. leg of mutton, 4 oz. butter or dripping, 2 oz. onions, 1 dessertspoonful of '■> Empress ” currie powder, one ditto of currie paste, pinch of salt, one pint of broth or water. Now cut up your mutton into ipieces the size of a large walnut, then put butter or dripping into a frying-pan ; when hot put in the mutton and sliced onions. Stir this over a brisk fire for five minutes, which will give a nice colour to the meat. Now put it into a saucepan, add the powder, salt, and paste, mix this well together with a spoon, and then add the broth or water; allow it to boil gently for one hour, when it will be ready to serve with rice. How to Boil Bice for Curries.—Take (for a small party of four) 4 oz. of Carolina rice, put it into a saucepan with three pints of cold water and a pinch of common salt, allow this to boil over a sharp fire for fifteen minutes, then strain it; put the