PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 546 when these commence to turn of a yellowish colour add one or two tablespoonfuls of (lour, stir the sauce for a little while, and reduce it with boiling water to a smooth sauce ; then add salt, vinegar, pepper, and Liebig Company’s extract of meat; let it boil well, and serve with potatoes and mashed peas. Sweet Sauce for Puddings.—Boil the peel of one lemon in half a pint of water with 3 ox. of sugar for ten minutes. Remove the lemon, and thicken the sauce with two teaspoonfuls of flour and 2 oz. of butter, previously worked together; stir all till it is thick, then add a few drops of vanilla essence. Lemon Sauce.—A delicate and delicious sauce for light boiled puddings may be made in the following manner:—Cut the rind of half a lemon very thin, taking off none of the white; boil it for three minutes in half a teacupful of water; strain into it the juice of a lemon, add two lumps of sugar, and add, just before serving, ten drops of brandy. MISCELLANEOUS SAVOURY DISHES FOR BREAKFAST, SUPPER, &c. Brown Fricasseed Eggs.—Melt 1^ oz. of butter with one teaspoonful of warm water, a little chopped parsley, one slice of onion, and two mushrooms. When done pour in a small cupful of gravy, thickened with Hour and seasoned with pepper and salt. Cut three hard-boiled eggs into slices, add them to the sairce, and, when boiled up, serve hot. Ham Cake.—Take the remains of a ham that maybe getting dry, pound it in a mortar very finely with all the fat, season it with pepper and mixed spice, add to it clarified butter sufficient to make it moist, put it into a mould, and place it in the oven for about half an hour (it should be prepared the day before it is wanted) ; put the mould for a few minutes in warm water in order that it may be turned out properly. Tongue or cold beef may be substituted for the ham, but if the former is used it must be mixed with a larger quantity of butter in the pounding. If it is properly seasoned and covered with clarified butter, the preparation will keep some time. Meat Pancakes.—Ingredients: 2 eggs, } pint of milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, ( lb. cold meat, thickened gravy, 2 oz. lard. Mode: chop meat finely, and add seasoning to taste and sufficient gravy to make it moist. Mix flour and ltizine in a basin, add milk and the eggs well beaten, let the batter stand twenty minutes ; put a small piece of lard into the frying-pan, when quite hot, pour in sufficient batter to well cover the bottom ; when brown, turn over and brown the other side ; then turn on to a piece of paper, spread on one half a layer