FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES 485 PART VII. FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES. THE WORKS OF DR. WILLIAM KITCHENER AND DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON. Dr. William Kitchiner was born in London in 1775, and died February 26, 1827. He is described by biographers as a “ mis- cellaneous writer," but his interest to us depends entirely upon his having at one time or another written a book on culinary matters, which he styled “ The Cook’s Oracle,” and which earned a reputation that it has maintained undiminished up to the present time. This book is before me as I write, and as it was published in William Gunter’s time (1827—the same year that Dr. Kitchiner went over to the majority), and William Gunter afterwards published a book which he styled “ The Confectioner’s Oracle,” as a “ companion ” to Dr. Kitchiner’s, so he himself announced, it may be safely conjectured that the work of one was equally suitable for the culinary “profession” as the other, and that “ The Cook’s Oracle ” was not for family use only. At any rate, it was regarded with so much respect by the late William Gunter, who should be considered an authority, that he has quoted its doctrines extensively, for possibly even Gunter was impressed by the learned doctor, even to the extent of believing him to be a professional cook by virtue of his medical knowledge and endow- ments. And Dr. Kitchiner was a professed cook in every sense of the word, for not only did he study the chemistry of cooking in all its details, but he actually cooked and ate of every dish, sauce, or anything else that he prepared himself, or of which he published the recipe, so as to ensure three great points—namely, that the taste was up to the mark, and the food wholesome and economical: matters that are not always observed by the first- class chefs of to-day! In Dr. Kitchiner’s writings there is a good deal to amuse, even if there is not much to instruct us ; at any rate, though only a trifle be gained, yet nothing can be lost by a little study of our ancient gastronomer’s work. He tells us that it is not right to say that a medical man cannot write a book upon cookery if he is not a practical cook. By an attentive consideration of the “rudiments of cookery,” and the respective recipes, a novice in the business of the kitchen may work with facility and certainty of success, and soon become an expert. Dr. Kitchiner was much assisted in his labours by