PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 514 Cervelle, /. Brain, c. A substance within the skull of an animal. Veal, lamb, pork, and beef brains are used in cookery. Champignons, /. Mushrooms, e. Chapelure,/. Dried bread crumbs passed through a sieve. Chapon, /. Capon; also a piece of bread boiled in soups; a crust of bread rubbed with garlic. Charcuterie,/. The word means roughly slashed; but in a culinary sense it denotes “ pretty tiny kickshaws ” of pork, which are prepared in many different fashions. Black pudding, pig’s feet truffled, smoked pig’s ear with truffles, Nancy chitterlings, saveloy, pig’s liver—are all items of charcuterie. Charlotte, /. Consists usually of thin slices of bread or biscuits, steeped in clarified butter and sugar, and laid out in plain moulds in a symmetrical order, after which they are garnished with cream, fruit or preserve. Christian name of the queen of “ Farmer George.” Chartreuse. Various kinds of vegetables or fruit, dished up in the shape of goblets. Chataigne,/. Chestnut, e. Used for stuffing and sweet dishes. Chateaubriand. Name of Viscount Framjois Auguste, a great French gourmand, born in 1769, d. 1848. A favourite dish of fillet steak is called after him. Chaudeau,/. A sweet sauce served with puddings, &c. Chaudproid, /. A name for dishes which are prepared hot and eaten when cold, usually garnished with savoury jelly and truffles. Chaussons, /. A kind of French round flat pies tilled with jam. Chef de cuisine,/. Chief of the kitchen ; head cook. Chevreuil, /. Roebuck, roe-deer, e. Chevreuse,/ Small goose liver tartlets. Chicoree,/. Succory, endive e. Used for salads, and as a vegetable. Chiffonnade, f. Soup herb leaves. ■Chinois, /. A strainer with very fine holes, used for straining clear soups and gravies. A Chinese fruit. Chipolata. Small Italian sausages. Choux-fleuR,/. Cauliflower, e. A delicate species of cabbage. Citron, /. Lemon, e. Citronate ; candied lemon peel. Citronne, /. Anything which has the taste or flavour of lemon. Civet. A brown stew of hare, venison, or other game. Civettes,/. Chives, e. Flavouring herb for soups and salads. Clarification,/. An operation which is so termed when any liquid is clarified. For the clarification of consommSs and savoury jellies, finely minced raw meat and eggs and water are used; whilst for sweet jellies, whites of egg and lemon juice are used for that purpose.