524 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Maxtre d’hotel (a la),/. Hotel steward’s fashion. Maquereau. Mackerel. A spotted fish. Maraschino, e. Marasquin, f. A delicately flavoured white liqueur, used for flavouring jellies -and ices. Marcassin, /. Grice, a. Young wild boar, generally cooked whole. Marengo. An Italian village, which gives its name to the dish “ Poulet saute a la Marengo.” Marie Louise. Second wife of Napoleon I., born 1791, died 1847. The lady was a great gourmand of her time. Marigold. A flavouring herb, also known as Pot Marigold. It is a native of Spain, and was introduced into England in 1573. Marinade, /. The brine in which fish or meat is sauced or pickled. Marjolain,/. Marjoram, c. An excellent kitchen herb of strong flavour, used fresh or dried for game seasoning; also for flavouring sauces, forcemeat, etc. Marquer, f. To prepare, and arrange in a stewpan, a piece of meat ready for cooking. Marzipan. Delicate German dessert dainties made from al- mond paste. Mask. 'To cover any kind of cooked meat with thick rich gravy or savoury jelly. Masquer, /. To sauce a dish which is ready for serving ; also, to mask the inside of a mould with savoury jelly or chaudfroid sauce when required for cold entrees. Massepain, /. A French dessert pastry. Matelote, /. A marine dish; a rich fish stew with wine and herb flavouring. Mayonnaise, /. A kind of salad of fish or poultry, with a thick cold sauce made of yolks of eggs, oil, and vinegar ; a salad sauce. Mazagran. A French term for a glass of black coffee, sugar, and water. Mazarines. Turbans,/. Forcemeat ornaments of fish, poultry, or game. Menu, f. The bill of fare. A list of the dishes which are to be served at a meal. Menus were first used in 1541. Menus droits. Pig’s ears served up as an entree. Meringue, /. Light pastry, made of white of eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice. Mr:Rlan, f. Whiting. A delicate fish allied to the cod. Mets, /. The meal, or dish : “Mets de farine,” “ entremets de douceur,” “ de legumes,” etc. Mignonette pepper. Coarsely ground white peppercorns. Mijoter, /. To cook slowly ; to simmer gently over a small fire. Milk. Du lait,/.