PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 589 when warm, must be replaced by fresh cold water and heated again, whereby the sweetbread will become blanched. Then put it again into cold water, take off the skin, remove the fleshy parts, cut the sweetbread into small pieces, and fry in butter till yellow. At the same time flour and butter are to be stirred till yellow and quite smooth in a quart of stock (two teaspoonfuls of Liebig Company’s extract in one quart of boiling water) ; boil up, add the sweetbread to it and boil again for about twenty minutes. Serve up the soup with a little cayenne pepper, or some fresh finely chopped parsley, beaten up with the yolk of an egg. Gravy Soup.—Take the bones of any cold meat, and stew gently for four hours in two quarts of water, with one onion, one bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste. When nearly done stir in one dessertspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract and, if desired, thicken with a little oatmeal; strain before serving. Lenten Soup.—Take 3 lbs. of gravy beef, a calf’s, foot, and 3 lbs. of shin of beef; boil these down in three or four quarts of water, season with carrots, turnips, celery, fried onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Stew for six hours or so, strain, and cut off the fat when cold. Eeboil, simmer, and about twenty minutes before serving throw in balls of motsa meal made as follows: | lb. of well-sifted motsa flour, four beaten eggs, 2 oz. of finely chopped suet, all seasoned with salt, pepper, ginger, and nutmeg. Before placing the soup on table throw in a small onion, well browned, in a dessertspoonful of very hot olive oil. FISH. How to Curry Fish..—Very often some fish is left from dinner which is considered not good enough to be partaken of afterwards, because in warming it the delicate flavour is lost. Say you have some cold turbot or cod left; well, whilst it is hot, take away all the bones and the black skin, and place the pieces of fish on a plate, then boil three eggs hard, take 4 oz. of rice boiled, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, and one pint of milk, two dessertspoonfuls of curry powder, two of mango chutney, and a spoonful of salt. Put the butter and flour in a saucepan, mix well together, add milk, powder, chutney, and salt. Stir until it boils, then put in the fish, rice, and e^gs sliced. Mix them gently, but well, together. It is an excellent dish for breakfast. Soles and whiting can also be prepared thus. Curried Haddock.—Clean and skin the fish, take tfie flesh from the bones and divide it into pieces, about three inches long and one inch wide. For a fish 3 lbs. in weight put three-quarters of a pint of stock, (made with three-fourths of a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract) into a saucepan, and thicken it with a dessert-