538 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY two turnips, two leeks, and a bunch of herbs. Pour on a pint of the liquor in which the meat is soaking, and boil for half an hour. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour and one of curry- powder with cold water, stir into the liquid, add the rest of the water and the meat, and boil for three hours. Pass through a sieve, boil again, add salt, and serve with boiled rice, and a dash of lemon if approved. Barley Soup.—Wash and soak T lb. of pearl barley, drain it on a sieve, and then put it into a saucepan with one quart of white stock. Let it boil for two hours very gently ; take out two spoonfuls of the barley, and rub the rest through a sieve. Ten minutes before serving, the stock, after having been allowed to cool, should be boiled up, adding the yolks of three or four eggs, some cream, and a little butter. Stir gently until quite smooth. Vegetable Soup.—Wash thoroughly a lettuce, a handful each of sorrel, cabbage, and spinach, then shred into small pieces, and put over the fire, with 2 oz. of butter, for at least ten minutes, turning over the vegetables with a fork the while. To this add one quart of hot stock, and simmer for one hour, only letting il boil up at the last. Then add four yolks of eggs, and return to the tire, taking care the soup does not boil after the eggs have been added. Stir iii a gill of good cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve in a hot tureen. Asparagus Soup.—Make three pints of stock (with one dessertspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract) ; add three onions, one large turnip, a few sweet herbs, and the white part of a bundle of asparagus; let all simmer till soft, rub them through a sieve, season with pepper and salt, have ready the green tops of the asparagus, and add them to the sou;), and simmer for fifty minutes. Julienne Soup.—Cut into thin strips, about one incb long, two carrots, two turnips, two onions, two leeks, half a head of celery, a little sorrel, if liked, one lettuce. Fry the carrots in 2 oz. of butter, and add to two quarts of boiling water, with the rest of the vegetables, and stew gently for one and a half hour ; stir in one dessertspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract, add pepper and salt, and boil for five minutes. Serve with pieces of bread cut the size of a shilling, sufficient for seven persons. Julienne Soup made from Dried Vegetables.—Steep the julienne in water or stock, and let it soak for an hour. Put it on the fire in astewpan, let it boil for forty-five minutes, season with salt and pepper, and serve. If water is used instead of stock, stir in a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract to every quart of soup. Sweetbread Soup.—Put one or more sweetbreads, according to the quantity of soup required, on the fire in cold water, which,