PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 542 leaving the bird in the stewpan to keep it hot. Skim off fat, and thicken the gravy with butter rolled in brown Hour. Add to this the juice of a squeezed lemon. Dish up the bird, and pour the sauce over it. Stewed Pigeons.—Cut the pigeons in halves ; add three pints of stock, and simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour-. These should be cooked in the morning, and put between two plates with a weight on the top to flatten them. The sauce is made of 2 oz. of butter, 2 oz. of chopped ham, two shallots, one small onion, one bay-leaf, and two tomatoes, fried together; then add a gill of sherry, pepper and salt, and simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, and pass through a sieve. Pour this mixture over the pigeons in a stewpan, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Place the pigeons in a dish, garnish with turned olives and spinach, and add the sauce. Broiled Partridge.—Take two partridges as for roasting, cut lliem ip two, and thoroughly clean the insides, pepper and salt well; place them on a grill, flesh downwards, over a clear fire ; broil for twenty minutes. When done, serve hot with a rich clear gravy, made of | pint of water and 1 teaspoonful of Liebig Com- pany’s extract of meat. Note.—Pheasants may be cooked in this way, but must be cut into four. Chicken Cutlets.—Take the legs of the fowl, removing the thigh-bones, but leaving the drumsticks in to keep the cutlets in shape. Put the legs into a saucepan together with as much good stock as will cover them ; simmer very gently until they become tender, then remove and place them between two dishes, putting a weight upon the top, and set aside until cold. Then trim off the edges, shaping them into cutlet form, season with a little pepper and salt, brush over with a little butter, dip into egg, then into fine bread-crumbs; and fry in butter or lard until nicely browned (whether butter or lard be used for the frying, it should be very hot when the cutlets are put in) ; turn them from one side to the other while cooking, so that they may be evenly browned, and when done place on a hot dish, and send to table with a good gravy made of the fowl bones and trimmings. Stewed Babbit with Onions.—Choose a nice young rabbit, wipe it carefully with a damp cloth, and cut into joints with a sharp knife. Place the rabbit in a stewpan with one pint and a half of hot water, four onions, one tablespoonful of ketchup, salt and pepper. Stew gently for two hours. Before serving, break up the onions with a fork, thicken the gravy with flour, and colour it. Serve with neatly cut pieces of toast. Rabbit Pie.—Line a pie-dish with paste, then a layer of cold rabbit, a layer of ham cut in thin slices, and one of hard- boiled eggs sliced, then a few pieces of rabbit. Season with pepper and salt and a sprinkling of sweet herbs. Pour in about