PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 547 of the prepared meat, fold the other half over, arrange in a pile, and garnish with parsley. Macaroni au Gratin.—Put ^lb. macaroni in some boiling water with a little salt, boil it till soft, but not pappy, drain it well from the water, return it to the saucepan, with three table- spoonfuls of grated Parmesan, a lump of butter, a little pepper, and a ladleful of white sauce ; stir it over the fire till quite hot again; have ready some pieces of fried bread or buttered toast, and lay them round a deep pie-dish ; then put in the macaroni, add three or four small bits of butter, and sprinkle the top with brown bread-crumbs ; bake for a few minutes in a brisk oven. Savoury Cassolettes.—Ingredients: J lb. rizine, ^ oz. butter, one pint of stock, seasoned to taste. Mode : Cook in the same way as Sweet Cassolettes (see page 558), and when cool cut into rounds, brush over with egg, and roll in bread-crumbs and fry in hot fat a golden brown. Scoop out the centres of discs, fill in with minced meat or sa voury mixture, and replace thescooped- out portion as a lid or cap, and serve. Savoury of Artichokes.— Boil 1 lb. of Jerusalem artichokes till quite soft, then drain them well from the water, and mash them with a wooden spoon ; mix in a large tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little salt, cayenne, the beaten yolk of an egg, and sufficient flour to make it a proper consistency ; drop the mixture from a spoon in small cakes into boiling butter, and fry them a light brown on both sides, drain them well, and serve very hot. Oyster Toast.—Cut four slices of bread, pare off the crusts, and toast them. Butter the toast on both sides. Then select a dozen of fine fat and plump oysters, and mince them; place them thickly between the slices of toast, seasoning with cayenne pepper. Beat the yolks of four eggs, and mix them with half a pint of cream, adding, if thought necessary, a few blades of mace. Put the whole into a saucepan, and set it over the fire to simmer till thick; but do not allow it to boil, and stir it well, lest it should curdle. When it is near boiling heat, take it off and pour it over the toast. Cheese Cigarettes. — Ingredients : 2 oz. Rizine, grated cheese, half-pint milk, one yolk of egg, \ lb. short paste. Mode : Boil Rizine in milk six minutes, then add yolk of egg, cheese, pepper, salt, and mustard to taste. Roll paste out very thin, cut in bands 4 inches wide, spread over some of the mixture, roll up in the form of cigars, egg edge to make a secure join, and fry in hot fat a nice brown (about five minutes). Then arrange in cross-bars, three and three, garnishing corners with parsley. Tomatoes au Gratin.—Cut the tomatoes in halves, take out some of the insides, and mix with it a little grated bread, 35