491 FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES LOUIS EUSTACHE UDE, Ude issued the tenth edition, “corrected and enlarged,” of his renowned “ French Cook, adapted to the use of English Families,” from Crockford’s Club House, St. James’s Street. He signs it thus: “By Louis Eustache Ude, ci-devant cook to Louis XVI. and the Earl of Sefton ; late Steward to the United Service Club, to his late Royal Highness the Duke of York ; and now Maitre d’Hotel at Crockford’s Club, St. James’s Street.” The book was sold everywhere by the elite among the booksellers, and Ude no doubt made a large ■ fortune over his publications, which still maintain a great reputation. Ude spoke out, but he spoke for himself, and his words were noble concerning the art of cookery, so far as he and a few others were concerned. Ude was a florid writer, but he made himself felt, and he has probably not been surpassed in self-confidence by any other writer in any other profession. He felt his importance, and acted upon it; but in the eyes of man}' he was “only a cook ” after all. Ode, however, maintained, and there is much reason in his argument, that to compose an oratorio or opera was an easier feat than to invent a new entree, and that a man of the requisite natural endowments could sooner qualify himself to compete with the Royal Academicians than with the chief operators in cookery. “ I shall,” he observes, “ demonstrate the difficulty of the art by some observations in other arts. Music, painting, and mechanics in general possess professors under twenty years of age, whereas in the first line of cooking pre- eminence never occurs under thirty. We see daily at the concerts and academies young men and women who display the greatest abilities, but in our line nothing but the most consum- mate experience can elevate a man to the rank of Chief Professor.” The precise age when Ude served his apprenticeship in cookery is difficult to state; but this is certain: he was not a youth when he definitively fixed upon the culinary art for his living. Again: “Prescriptions, we must admit, are dispensed by weight and measure; but dishes owe their virtue to sympathy, tact, nervous sensibility, and momentary inspirations.” “ The pharmacist,” he continues, with that bombast that rendered him comparatively uninfluential, “ is obliged to weigh every ingredient that he employs, as he dues not lihe to taste it; the cook, on the contrary, must taste often, as the reduction increases the flavour. It. would be blind work, indeed, without tasting ; the very best soups in which you have omitted to put salt are entirely without flavour; seasoning is in cookery what