• PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 604 article of diet in England and in Spain long before Parmentier was born. Sir Walter Raleigh introduced it into Ireland from Virginia one hundred and fifty years before the tuber made its appearance in France. But it made slow progress as an edible, and was grown as a curiosity for some time before it attracted the attention of the English cultivator and consumer. Parmentier died in 1813 at the age of seventy-six, and was interred at Pere La Chaise Cemetery. Round the monument erected to his memory is formed a small garden, planted with the vegetable he loved and laboured for so much. Here is the receipt for Parmentier Potato Soup, or Pot aye Parmentier. Peel a dozen potatoes, slice and put them in cold water. Slice two onions, a head of celery, and the white part of two leeks. Put these ingredients in a stewpan with four ounces of butter, and add the potatoes. Fry the whole for ten minutes, and then moisten with two quarts of veal broth. Add three cloves, a little salt, a bunch of parsley, and let simmer until the vegetables are done ; then rub all through a fine sieve. Return the puree into a stewpan; set it on the fire to boil slowly; if the soup is found too thick, add a little broth. Let it simmer for twenty minutes, taking off the scum as it rises. When ready to serve, bind it with three yolks of eggs, diluted with a little cream, and two ounces of butter divided into small pieces. Throw into the soup a little finely-chopped and blanched chervil, and serve with some small filed bread croutons. The Potato in Prance. The Paris correspondent of the Daily News wrote in February 1887 :—“ The potato is not in France that homely esculent that it is in the British Islands. There are as many ways of pre- paring it here as there were in Goldsmith’s time of cocking a nettle top. Potatoes are only admitted en robe cle chanibre—that is to -say, in their jackets—to the midday meal, and then on unceremonious occasions. They chiefly figure at dejeuners intimes, or dejeuners taken at restaurants, where the b if tech anx pommes and la cotelette a la puree de pomme de terre are in great favour. At popular banquets, where each one who sits down to table pays from four to six francs a head, the rosbif is sure to be a. la Parmentier. The centenary of the adoption of the potato as an article of food is to be celebrated next month at Mont- didier. There was a universal prejudice against it in this tolerant country until Parmentier, the gardener of Louis XVI., got that king to admit it to the royal table. As this happened in a year of famine, the potato soon after was universally adopted as an edible. MM. Erckmann-Chatrian, in one of their patriotic stories, describe the effect produced by iis advent in Lorraine. MM. De Lesseps, Pasteur, and Chevreul, the oldestmember of the Institute, have promised to attend the potato festival at Montdidier.”