5 5 3 PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES Baked Pudding.—Prepare a mixture as for blancmange. After boiling eight minutes, allow it to cool. Beat up two eggs with 3 oz. sugar. Stir this well into the corn hour. Bake for half an hour in an oven, or brown before the tire. Bird-nest Pudding.—Bake in a well-greased plain border mould the same mixture as for Vanilla Baskets (page 556), then turn out carefully, spread over apricot jam, sprinkle the cake well with linely shredded or chopped pistachio kernels, then take the shell off the eggs and put in the centre ; serve with a nicely flavoured custard. Prepare the eggs as follows : One pint of milk, 3 oz. Riziue, sugar, and flavouring. Mode: Boil Rizine in the milk until it is quite smooth, then add sugar, and flavouring; have the empty shells of eight to ten small eggs or egg cups rinsed well out with cold water, pour in the mixture and put in a cold place until firm. Devonshire Pudding.—Ingredients : lb. Rizine, 1£ pint milk, 1 egg, 2 oz. sugar, J lb. apples, 3 cloves. Mode: Boil the Rizine in the milk a few minutes, peel, halve, and core apples and place them in a pie dish, mix the egg and sugar with the cooked Rizine, pour over the apples, and bake until the apples are soft. Sprinkle with castor sugar and serve. It may also be steamed. The King of Puddings.—Ingredients: 1J pint of milk, 4 yolks of eggs, £ pint cream, | oz. gelatine, 3 oz. Rizine, sugar, and flavouring to taste, 1 teacupful of dried fruit cut in small squares, such as dried cherries, citron, sultanas, and pistachio kernels. Mode : Cook Rizine in milk 5 to 7 minutes, then add yolks of eggs beaten up with sugar flavouring and a little cold milk, let mixture thicken, then pour into a basin, stir occasion- ally, and when cold, add the gelatine dissolved, the fruit, and cream whipped to a stiff froth. When on point of setting, pour into a crown, mould; when firm, turn out and garnish with chopped jelly. Oranges a la Portugaise.— Select eight even-sized smooth oranges ; cut an inch-wide round hole on the stem side, take the pulp out with the small end of a teaspoon, and steep the skins in cold water; drain, and scrape the inside smoothly without injuring the peel; cut small and steep in maraschino liqueur, some candied fruits, such as citron and orange peel, angelica and raisins; mix these with sufficient orange ice; fill the oranges, cover with the small piece taken out, put in a sorbetiere (freezer), surround and cover with salted ice for at least two hours before serving ; remove the cover carefully, take the oranges out, range them whole on a folded napkin, and serve. Bizine Cocoanut Pudding.—-Ingredients: A lb. Rizine, 2 oz. desiccated cocoanut, 1 oz. butter, 1^ oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, 1 pint milk. Mode: Boil the Rizine and cocoanut in the milk, cream the sugar with butter, and the yolks of eggs, one al a time, then mix with the Rizine and cocoanut; line the edge of