532 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY Sauter -ee, /. To toss over the fire, in a frying pan with little butter or fat, anything that requires sharp tire and quick cooking. Savarin (Brillat). Born 1755. Famous gastronomic writer; author of the excellent work entitled “ Physiologie du Gout, ou Meditations de Gastronomie transcendante,” published after his death. A light spongy yeast cake is named after him. Saveloy. A kind of smoked pork sausage; it is highly seasoned, and has an addition of saltpetre to give the meat a red colour. SCALD. To scald milk, is to bring it nearly to the boil. Scorzonera. A kind of vegetable root; treated and served like parsnips or salsify. Scotch style. A l’Ecossaise,/. Seakale. As an article of diet, seakale is very little known on the Continent; it grows wild in all parts of Europe. It was first grown in England in the middle of the eighteenth centuiy by a gardener in Stoke Fleming, who cultivated the plants, which he found growing wild. They were so much appreciated that the gardener’s master presented some of the roots to his friends at Bath, after which they became popular in all parts of England. Seasoning, e. Assaisonnement,/. Semoule, /. Semolina, e. Serviette,/. Table napkin, e. En serviette, served in a napkin or dished up in a napkin. Sevigne, /. A French soup named after the Marchioness Sevigne of Rabutin-Chantel, a'French authoress, born 1626, died 1696. Shane jelly A kind of savoury jelly, lightly seasoned, recommended to weak people. Shred. Is to slice anything so finely with a sharp knife that the shreds curl. Singer. To dust with flour from the dredging box. Sippets. Small slices of bread cut into different forms, fried or toasted, served as garnishing with meat entries, or for borders of savoury dishes. Sirloin, e. Aloyeau,/. The sirloin of beef is said to owe its name to King Charles II., who, dining off a loin of beef, and being well pleased with it, asked the name of the joint. On being told, he said, “ For its merit, then, I will knight it, and henceforth it shall be called Sir Loin.” In an old ballad this circumstance is thus mentioned :— “ Our Second Charles, of fame facete, On loin of beef did dine ; He held his sword, pleased, o’er the meat,— ‘ Arise thou famed Sir Loin.’ ”