540 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY spoonful of curry powder and one teaspoonful of flour, mixed with two tablespoonfuls of the gravy. Mince two onions very finely, and put them into the soup. Add. one-fourth pint of cream. Flour the pieces of fish, and fry them in hot lard till they are browned. Drain them from the fat and put them into the gravy. Simmer gently for ten minutes, skim the sauce, put the fish into the middle of the dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Baked Trout.—Thoroughly cleanse two trout and stuff with forcemeat, and sew them up. Rub them over with egg and bread-crumbs and lay in a deep dish. Add one pint of stock, two onions sliced (one glass of port wine, if desired), one bay- leaf, a sprinkling of herbs, and bake for one hour. Melt 11 oz. of butter in a small saucepan or stewpan, and add a little flour; strain the liquor from the fish and boil, stirring gently; season with pepper and salt and the squeeze of a lemon. Serve the trout garnished with slices of lemon, and the sauce separately. Mackerel and haddock can also be cooked this way. Fillets of Sole (Parisian style).—Take some fillets of soles; boil the bones, and add 1 oz. of flour and 2 oz. of butter to the liquor, with the beaten yolk of an egg. To make the fillet pink add some lobster spawn pounded with butter in a mortar. Spread the mixture on each fillet; boil very gently, dish up, and pour sauce over, to which some cut oysters and fine shreds of lobster meat have been added. Grilled Sole.—To prepare this dish easily, a double gridiron should be used; but if not obtainable, the fish can, with care, be turned while broiling on a single one. The sole, having first been well dried, should be dipped in oil or melted butter, then placed on the gridiron, and set over a brisk but clear fire. The bars of the gridiron should be slightly greased and warmed before laying on the fish, which will take ten minutes, more or less, according to size, to cook. Have a dish quite hot, and having put on this a small piece of fresh butter, serve the sole on it, with a few slices of cut lemon. A sole for broiling may also be dipped first in flour, if preferred. Bed Mullet.—Flour and salt the mullet, and fry crisply in a little oil, and dish up. To the same oil add an equal quantity of vinegar, a little chopped parsley, a sprinkling of flour, and some garlic if agreeable. Boil up, pour over the mullet, and serve. Crayfish Cutlets.—The following toothsome dish forms a nice change for the breakfast table. Procure some fresh crayfish; remove, the so-called heads, and all the hard parts of the tail with the exception of the terminal piece. Slit them down the centre, and gently press or beat them flat. Sprinkle with pepper salt, and soup-herbs to taste. Dip in yolk of egg ; dredge with flour or Rizine, and fry to a rich pale-brown colour. Serve with a garnish of fried parsley or with tomato sauce.