PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 556 Corn Flour Cake. (From the “Handbook” of the National Training School for Cookery).—Ingredients for a cake of about three-quarters of a pound weight: 4 oz. corn flour, 3 oz. loaf sugar, 2 eggs, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful baking powder. Time required, about an hour. Put the butter into a basin and beat to a cream; add the sugar (first pounded), and mix well. Break in the eggs, and beat all well together. Now stir the corn flour and the baking powder lightly into the mixture, and beat all well together for five minutes. Grease a cake tin inside with butter or dripping; pour the mixture into the tin, and put it immediately into a quick oven to bake for half an hour. Then turn the cake out of the tin, and slant it against a plate till it is- cold (this will prevent it getting heavy). If preferred, the mix- ture could be baked in small tins instead of one large one, in which case it would only take fifteen minutes to bake. Rizine Divine.—Ingredients: \\ pint milk, 1 oz. butter,, three eggs, 4 oz. rizine, apricot jam, 4 oz.. castor sugar for meringue. Mode : Boil Rizine in the milk five minutes, then add butter, yolk of eggs, sugar, and flavouring to taste, let it thicken, then pile on to a round of bread or short paste that has been baked ; make a hollow place in centre and fill with apricot jam ; whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the castor sugar, then completely cover the sweet, decorate with fancy fruits, place in moderate oven ten minutes for eggs to set. Surprise Cutlets.—ingredients : 1 pint of milk, 3 oz. Rizine, 2 ozs. sugar, two yolks of eggs, flavouring. Mode: Boil Rizine in milk until it forms a stiff paste, then stir in the sugar, yolks of eggs, and flavouring; spread mixture on a dish. When cold cut into cutlets, put in the thin end of each a piece of macaroni to- represent the cutlet bone, then dip each cutlet in egg, roll in bread crumbs, put in the hot fat and fry; when a nice brown drain on paper, arrange in a circle, and pour over some apricot jam rubbed through a sieve, and boiled for five minutes with a wine-glass of water and 2 oz. of sugar. Vanilla Baskets.—Ingredients : 4 oz. sugar, 4 oz. butter, ^ pint milk, 4 oz. rizine, 10 oz. flour, two eggs, vanilla, 1 tea- spoonful baking powder. Mode: Well grease some basket moulds and sprinkle with flour, soak Rizine ten minutes in milk, stir butter and sugar together five minutes, then add one egg and part of flour, then the other egg and remainder of flour, by degrees.a<M Rizine and vanilla flavouring; when well mixed, sprinkle in the baking powder, three parts fill the moulds with mixture, bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven, then turn on to a sieve, spread over some apricot jam, roll in desiccated cocoanut, scoop out centre and fill with cream, make a handle across top with a strip of angelica. Sponge Cake.—Ingredients : 8 oz. corn flour, 8 oz. powdered sugar, 6 eggs, and a flavouring of grated lemon-peel, chipped