548 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY some Parmesan cheese, a mushroom or two very finely chopped, and pepper and salt; fill the tomatoes with this mixture, place them in a buttered tin, with a little bit of butter on each, and bake in a moderate oven. Ham Toast. —Mince J- lb. of lean ham very fine, and mix it with t, oz. of butter, pepper to season, and the yolks of two or three eggs. Put the mixture in a small saucepan, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Spread on toast, and serve very hot. Curried Kidneys for Breakfast.—Take 2 kidneys, 2 oz. butter, one spoonful of currie paste, pinch of salt. Skin the kidneys, wash them and slice them very fine, put the butter into a frying-pan, and when hot throw in the kidneys; stir them over a sharp fire for three minutes, take them off, add the salt and paste. Mix well together, and serve up on toast. Potato Salad.—In many families cold boiled potatoes are considered as waste, and do not make their appearance a second time at table. If cut into thin slices, and di-essed with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, also, if possible, with beetroot and celery added to them, they compose a most excellent and refreshing salad, especially when lettuce is scarce. A little chopped parsley should always be sprinkled Qver this dish as a. garnish. Dish of Minee with Rizine Border.—Boil 6 oz. Eizine in sufficient water with a saltspoonful of salt and 1, oz. butter until done. Have ready to serve some hash or minced meat; put Ihe cooked Rizine round the dish and fill centre with the meat; brush border with yolk of egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, put into hot oven to brown. Serve hot. This will be found a, good substitute for potatoes or rice, more easily and quickly cooked. Beef and Veal Cutlets Baked.— Chop finely lb. of nice steak, the same weight of veal and 4 oz. of suet belonging to the latter, 8 oysters, 8 small mushrooms, 4 shallots, and 2 oz. of parsley. Season highly with a teaspoonful of hot spices and salt, and flavour with the rind of half a lemon grated, a little sweet marjoram and thyme. It should be thoroughly mixed while dry, and then made into a thick paste with four or five eggs, or as many as necessary. Cut into cutlet shapes, lay them on a buttered baking-tin, squeeze a lemon over them, and put them into a brisk oven. Beef Rissoles.—Mince finely some lean beef, a little suet, one onion, three or four .sprigs of parsley, and a cupful of grated bread-crumbs; mix all thoroughly, moisten with beaten egg. roll into balls, flour and fry them. Have ready three-quarters of a pint of gravy, slightly .thickened, and serve over the rissoles. Vienna Steak.—Ingredients: ) lb. Rizine, one pint cold