PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 551 an inch thick, stamp ont some rounds one inch in diameter, cut out the centre with a smaller cutter; fry in clarified butter a nice light brown, drain on a cloth, fill up the centre of each with Seun’s Hygienic Caviare, previously flavoured with a little chopped shallots, squeeze of lemon, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Pass them in the oven for a few minutes, and serve hot. Crofites of Cod’s Hoe.—Toast some slices of bread about half an inch thick, stamp out some fancy round shapes, spread with butter, sprinkle with Oriental salt, put a layer of Senn’s Cod Roe Paste on top, dust with grated Parmesan cheese, hold under a red-hot salamander till brown, and serve. Croutes of Lobster a la Tartare.—Prepare some round pieces of bread about half an inch thick, and one inch wide, stamp out the centre with a small plain cutter, fry in clarified butter, and drain. When cold put a little small cress in the bottom of each, fill up with Senn’s Lobster Pate; on the top place a thin slice of hard-boiled egg, put some more lobster pate to form the shape of a pyramid. Mask each croutewith a spoon- ful of stiff Tartare sauce just before sending to table, and garnish with stoned Spanish olives and parsley. Lobster Hamakins.—Pound some lobster meat in a mortar, add sufficient cream to work into a smooth paste, flavour with a little anchovy sauce and Oriental salt. Pass through a sieve, beat up with a little more cream (clotted). Fill the mixture in little French china ramaquin cases, sprinkle with lobster coral over the top, and serve. Croutes of Prawn a la Tartare.—Proceed the same as for “ Lobster la tartare,” only substitute Senn’s Prawn Pate for lobster. Croutes of Sardine a, la Tartare.—Proceed the same as for ‘‘Lobster A. la tartare,”only substitute Senn’s Sardine bate for lobster. Crofftes of Salmon a la Tartare.—Proceed the same as the preceding receipt, only substitute Senn’s Salmon Pflte for sardine. Crofitons of Ham.—Have ready some finely chopped ham, put in a saucepan with a pat of fresh butter, some chopped parsley and chives, the yolk of an egg; season to taste with Searcy’s Oriental Salt, or a little cayenne pepper ; stir over the fire until warm, put it on toasted bread croutons in a pyramidal form, pass in the hot oven for a few minutes, and serve hot. SWEET DISHES. Blancmange.—Mix gradually 2 pints milk with 3| oz. com flour. Put it into a stewpan, and bring it to the boil,” stirring. Add a pinch of salt, and 2 oz. of sugar; flavour with two or three drops of vanilla, lemon, or orange essence. Rinse a mould in