PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 526 O. 05 up, f. Egg, e. Oie, /. Goose, e. Oignon, /. Onion, e. Olive, f. Olive, e. Fruit of the oil-tree, used as hors-d’oeuvres, and as garnish for sauces, stews, salads, etc. Omble. Name of an excellent sweetwater fish, from the lake of Geneva, weighing up to 15 lbs. apiece; in season during the months of January and February. Ombre chevalier, /. Grayling, e. A sweetwater fish, similar to the trout. Omelette, f Omelet, c. A pancake or fritter of eggs, etc. Oriental salt. A pleasant and agreeable condiment, made from the fresh red chilli; it has the same properties as Cayenne pepper without its pungency, and forms a pleasant variety with the ordinary white salt on the dinner table. Ortolan, /. Ortolan, e. A bird of the size of a lark. Oseille, f. Sorrel, e. A sour plant of green colour, used for soups or as a vegetable. Ox-tail soup is said to have been discovered as follows:— During the Reign of Terror in Parris, in 1793, many of the nobility were reduced to starvation and beggary. The abattoirs sent their hides fresh to the tanneries without removing the tails, and in cleaning them the tails were thrown away. One of these noble beggars asked for a tail, which was willingly given him; he took it to his lodgings and made—what is now famous—the first dish of ox-tail soup. He told others of his good luck, and they annoyed the tanners so much, that a price was put on ox-tails. P. Paillasse, /. A grill over hot cinders. Pain, /. Bread ; force-meat; fruit puree, &c. Pain d’epice, /. A kind of gingerbread. Palais de bceue, f. Ox-palate, e. Panache, /. Mixed with two or more kinds of vegetables, fruits, &c.; also creams. Panada. A paste of flour and water or soaked bread, used in the preparation of forcemeat and stuffing. Paner, /. To egg and breadcrumb. Pannequets or Crepes,/. Pancakes. Papillotes (en), f. Paper capsules, greased, and fastened round cutlets, See. Buttered paper answers the same purpose when twisted along the edges. Paprika. Hungarian red pepper. Parboil. To half-cook in boiling water. Parisienne (a la), f. Parisian style.