PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 498 CHARLES E. FRANCATELLI, 1805-1876. Charles Elme Francatelli is a name familiar to all. He was born in London in 1805, and appears to have been at a very early date destined for the kitchen. His father was of rather more than Italian extraction, and christened him Charles Elme. At a suitable age the lad was sent to France for his education. Here he was fortunate enough to fall in with Careme, who was becoming a king in his profession. It may be said of Francatelli that he taught the Prince of Wales to eat macaroni, and Her Gracious Majesty the Queen to value the flavour of pistachio in sweets and confectionery. It was this culinary artist who first in this country advocated the diner a la Russe, of which he thus writes :— “Few there are who are not apt to look with a pleasurable anticipation on the culinary delicacies before them; but when appetite is appeased, to continue inhaling the now no longer agreeable fumes of hacked fragments of even the most perfect dishes is little calculated to promote enjoyment; whereas the absence from table of the more substantial fa,re is fully compen- sated by the refreshing elegance of an artistic display of orna- mental confectionery, gorgeous fruit, and lovely flowers, which form the chief elements of a fashionable dessert.” Of cooking itself he says: — “ Simplicity is as essential an element in cookery as it is in other arts. The author, therefore, particularly cautions the inex- perienced practitioner from attempting too much. Excess in the quantity and variety of spices and condiments—the bane of English cookery—is especially to be guarded against.” Whether he used “ spices and condiments ” at all times with the discretion he publicly advocates we are unable to state, but an old chef, who was personally acquainted with Francatelli in his kitchen at the St. James’s Hotel, tells us that, as the chef there, he was fond of highly flavouring his sauces. Francatelli did not profess, so he says, to cater for the satis- faction of coarse appetites, but rather to gratify refined tastes. And he alludes to “ Guides ” and “ Oracles,” with a decided hit at Dr. Kitchiner’s “ Cook’s Oracle,” in the following amusing words:— “ Such attempts, too frequently made by English writers on gastronomy, at once betray their origin. The greater part of these authorities are persons who, having neither studied the rudiments nor practised the art to any extent, take upon them- selves to instruct the public, not from the fulness of their know- ledge, but either as a pecuniary resource or to gratify an idle whim. Need it be wondered at, while we possess in England a greater abundance of all kinds of food, generally of far better quality than is to be found elsewhere, that our cookery in theory