497 FAMOUS CHEFS AND EPICURES Many a time has he been known to dive into some back slum and purchase two-pennyworth of fried lish, devouring it with consummate relish, and preferring it to a vol-au-rent or ootelette of his own cooking. He was a professor of taste, but not a gourmet. The grand banquets undertaken and designed by Soycr were very numerous, the details of which are found in print in his books—his Diner Lucullvsien a la Santiago was, perhaps, the masterpiece of all, at least, he himself pronounced it to be so. The Bouquet de Gibier, or nosegay of game, which he presented to Louis Philippe, and for which he received such a memorable letter in return, was remarkable. It was about ten feet high and wide in proportion : “ The frame was richly covered with Christmas holly, laurel, mistletoe, and evergreen, with a great variety of winter flowers. There were twenty-two dozen head of game, consisting of larks, snipes, woodcocks, teal, French and English partridges, grouse, widgeons, wild ducks, blackcocks, pheasants, a leveret, a hare, and golden plovers. The interstices were lightly filled with wheat and oats, the whole ornamented with tri-coloured ribbon.” Most have heard of Soyer’s visit to Ireland in February of the year 1817, and of his praiseworthy efforts to relieve the starving peasantry; also of his model soup-kitchens, and of his relief of 1,147,278 persons, and the publication of his soup receipts, followed by “ The Poor Man’s Regenerator.” And then of his famous sauces and “ Relish,” and aerial dish at Slough; his philanthropic work in the East of London, and in the Crimea, where he so- ably assisted Miss Florence Nightingale in her efforts to feed the sick and wounded. And now we come to the last earthly scene, which occurred in his own house at St. John’s Wood, on the night of August 5, 1858. He was thus only forty- nine years of age when he died ; but he commenced life so early, and kept it up so intensely, that it ifray virtually be said he had lived as long again. It was he who described the difference between a gourmet and gourmand as being much the same as that between a gentleman and a common person.