VOCABULARY OF TERMS USED IN COOKERY. 513 BuiSSON, /. A cluster or a bush of shrimps, crayfish, or lobster. Also a method of twisting up pastry to a point. Burnt-sugar colouring, e. Caramel, /. Burst rice, e. Is to put it to boil in cold water; when boiling the grains of starch burst. C. Cabillaud,/. Codfish. Cafe vierge,/. An infusion of whole coffee-beans. Cajlle,/. Quail, e. A bird of the grouse kind. Callipash. A portion of glutinous meat to be found in the upper shell of the turtle. Callipee. The glutinous meat found in the under part of a turtle’s under shell. Camerain. Name of a rich soup invented by an actor of the eighteenth century of that name, the price of the soup being £6 The gastronomic work, “ Almanach des Gourmands,” by Grimod de la Regniere, was dedicated to Camerain. Canape. Much used for hors-d’oeuvres and savoury dishes. The word means sofa ; it consists as a rule of slices of bread cut into various sizes, used plain, or fried in oil or butter, or else grilled. Cannelons,/. Small rolls of pastry stuffed with minced meat. Capilotade,/. A culinary expression for a mixed hash. Caramel. Burnt sugar colouring. Cardamomes,/. Cardamoms, e. A spice used for flavouring meat and sweet dishes. Carde a la moelle, f. Pieces of marrow braised with bacon. Careme, A. The name of the celebrated chef, born in Paris in 1784, d. 1833; author of several culinary works, chef to the Prince Regent, George IV. of England, and the Emperor Alexander I. of Russia. Carottes,/. Carrots, e. Carre,/. Neck, e. The rib part of veal, mutton, lamb or pork.- Carrots were first introduced into England by Flemish gardeners in the time of Elizabeth, and in the reign of James I. they were still so uncommon that ladies wore bunches of them on their hats and on their sleeves, instead of feathers. Casha. An Indian dish, made with maize and cream. Casserole,/. A copper stewpan. When used in menus, it indi- cates the form of rice, or macaroni, filled with minced meat, game purge, &c. Cassis,/ The part which is attached to the tail end of a loin of veal; also, black currant syrup or liqueur. Caviar,/. Caviare, c. The salted roe of sturgeon (fish eggs). Cerf,/. Deer, stag, hart. Quadruped kept for venison.