PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 560 stirring well, and pour into a shape rinsed with cold water. Serve with whipped cream or milk. Coffee Jelly.— Boil 4 oz. of coffee in 1A pint of water ; after straining add 3 oz. sugar and £ pint previously- boiled cream. When the mixture boils, add to it 3A oz. corn flour slaked in A pint of cream. Boil eight minutes, stirring well, and pour into a mould rinsed with cold water. Two tablespoonfuls of “ Optimus Coffee Extract” and 1£ pint of boiling water will advantageously replace fresh- made coffee for this dish. Jelly for Invalids.—Mix in a tumbler a teaspoonful of corn flour with a little cold water. Pour upon it sufficient boiling water to form a clear jelly, stirring it well during the time the water is being poured on it. Then add a glass of sherry, and a little sugar if desired. Palace Blanc-Mange.—Ingredients : 1 quart milk, 6 oz. Rizine, 3 oz. sugar. Mode: Boil Rizine and milk until quite smooth, then add sugar and flavouring to taste, and a few drops of cochineal to make a pale pink colour. When a little cool pour into a china mould which has been rinsed in cold water; when firm, turn out. Serve with stewed fruits. Fruit Jelly for Invalids.—Mix 3-| oz. corn flour with a very little water, and pour into a saucepan with two pints fruit juice (with or without the addition of water, according to the strength of the juice). Add the grated rind and the juice of a lemon. Ering to the boil and boil eight minutes, stirring well. Pour into a mould rinsed with cold water. When cold, turn out and serve with fruit compote. Fruit Pie.—Bake or stew the fruit with sugar, and put it into a pie-dish. Pour over it hot corn flour, as prepared for blanc-mange. Then brown it before the fire. This makes a covering lighter and more delicious than pie-crust. Felixstowe Tart.—Mix 4 oz. of corn flour with 4 oz. of common flour, a small teaspoonful of baking powder, and a tablespoonful of powdered white sugar. Now rub in 3 oz. of butter or lard ; beat up the yolk of an egg with quarter-pint of milk, and stir it in. Knead the mass up into a light dough ; roll it out to a round piece, and fit it on a well-greased dinner plate or round dish. Roll up about an inch all round the edge of the paste, and crimp it with finger and thumb. Bake in a hot oven till of a golden colour. Then nearly fUl it with stewed fruit or jam, and pour over it the white of an egg beat up to a stiff snow with two tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar. Put the whole into a moderately heated oven or before the fire, till it has set and become of a golden colour. Rizine Midgets.—Ingredients: 2 oz. Rizine, 1 oz. sugar, 1 egg, A oz. butter, raisins, A pint milk, G drops of flavouring essence. Mode : Soak the Rizine for ten minutes, t hen add the