PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 492 chords are in music; the best instruments in the hands of the best professors, without their being in tune, are intolerable.” Speaking of Gonthier d’Andernach, whom he designates “ the Father of Cookery in France,” and “ a star which shone in the Reformation,” Ude exclaims with emotion, “ What Bacon was to philosophy, Dante and Petrarch to poetry, Michael Angelo and Raphael to painting, Columbus and Gama to geography, Copernicus and Galileo to astronomy, Gonthier was in France to the art of cookery.” That was pretty good for praise; but he continued, “Gonthier appeared to raise the culinary edifice, as Descartes, a century after him, raised that of philosophy. Both introduced doubt—the one in the moral (or should it be ‘ social ’ ?) and the other in the political world.” Mr. Ude has managed to raise a little doubt in his own world, for there appears to have been no public record taken of his birth. All we can learn of his antecedents dates from his active life as a cook—he promised once, we are told, to write the memoirs of his life; but, alas ! poor Ude was no more immortal than the best of them. For upwards of twenty years Ude served Lord Sefton, and introduced the light sandwich ball supper so much in favour in 'present times. Ude was also once maitre d'hotel to H.R.H. the Duke of York, from whom, it is re- ported, “he contrived to elicit many a hearty laugh by his clever mimicry.” Under his auspices, also, “ the great play- house in St. James’s, Crockford's, was ushered into its de- structive career.” Another authority upon these matters, and who seems to know about as much of Ude’s career as anybody, tells us that “ Louis Eustache Ude was verily the Gil Bias of the kitchen. He had, in his latter days, a notion of writing his memoirs; and if they had not proved deeply interesting, those who knew him well can with truth assert that many would have relished the curious scandal and pleasant gossip with which his astonishing memory was so well stored. Ude’s mamma was an attractive and lively milliner, who married an underling in Louis XVI.’s kitchen,” hence he found a welcome there, and was duly christened after the king. Ude was intended to be brought up as a priest or to study medicine. “ The mother, however, thought Master Eustache too pretty a boy to be sacrificed to the priesthood. The consequence was that, after an attempt made by his sire to train him in his own glorious path, the youngster absconded, and apprenticed himself, first to a jeweller, then to an engraver, next to a printer, and lastly to a haberdasher I After which he became traveller for a mercantile house at Lyons. Something occurred to him at this point which occasioned him to change his vocation once more. He returned to Paris, and there tried his genius as an actor at a small theatre. He soon, however, discovered that his share of the world’s cake was not on that stage, and, by