PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 522 IIure,/. Boar or pig’s head; also head and shoulders of some large fish. Huee dk sanglier,/. Wild boar’s head. I. Indienne (a l’). Indian style. Irish stew. A stew of mutton, potatoes, and onions; national dish of Ireland. Isinglass ine. An economical substitute for gelatine. Italienne (a L’.) Italian style. J. Jam bon, /. Ham, e. The thigh of a hog salted and smoked. Jambonneau,/. A very small ham. Jardiniere, f. A mixture of spring vegetables ; vegetables stewed down in their own sauce. Jean de Careme (John of Lent). A famous cook under Pope Leo X., who received the nickname “ John of Lent,” in consequence of a celebrated soupe rnaigre wdiich he used to prepare for his master the Pope. He is supposed to be the direct ancestor of the celebrated Antoine Careme. Jellies, e. Gelees,/. Inspissated juice of fruits or meats. Jernik-kalwasi. A Russian dish, consisting of semolina, milk, and honey. JOLERIE,/. A small sweet-water fish similar to perch. JUGGED, e. Civet de ...,/. Stewed. Julienne. Name of a vegetable clear soup, first made in 1785 by a cook named Jean Julien; vegetable roots finely shred. Jus,/. Juice ; broth ; gravy. K. Kabob. An Indian dish of stewed meat curried. Kaimaic. A Russian sweet, similar to cream custard. IvARl. The translation in French or German of the English word “ curry.” Kedgeree. An Indian dish of fish and rice curried. Kettle of fish. Is a sort of fish stew well known in Scotland: locally known as “ fish, and sauce.” It is generally made from haddocks. Klosse. German dish, composed of small light balls boiled in water, milk, or gravy They are made of bread, potatoes, rice, and eggs, and.are varied with meat, fish, or liver. Knol Kohl or Kohl-Rabi. Is a turnip-shaped vegetable, which is cooked without being pared; but before going to table the outside must be carefully removed. They are generally served with butter or a white sauce. Konomoe. Name of a Japanese vegetable. KROMESicis. Rolls of minced chicken and ham crumbed and fried. KUUPXTC ic. A Russian soup.