PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 48f) Mr. Henry Osborne, the excellent cook to Sir Joseph Banks, who was then President of the Royal Society, who had been a great traveller in his time, besides having journeyed round the world, where he picked up some foreign novelties and tastes like other epicures. Several books upon cookery have been written by physicians:—Sir Kenelm Digby, one of the physicians to Charles I.; Sir Theodore Mayerne, a physician to Henry IV. (in Paris), James I., and afterwards to Charles I.; Professor Bradley, Dr. Hill, Dr. Le Cointe, Dr. Hunter, and othei-s. He says that a physician, who studies the practice as well as the science of the thing, is the best authority on this subject of cookery; but if we ask whether a woman can write a book on cookery, we must see what Dr. Samuel Johnson says on this subject : — “ Some people have a foolish way of not minding, or pretend- ing not to mind, what they eat; for my part, I mind my belly”— and he had one to mind too—“ very studiously and very carefully, and I look upon it that he who does not mind his belly will hardly mind anything else.” And then, again, lie once observed to his friends : “ I could write a better book-of cookery than has ever yet been written ; it should be a book on philosophical principles; I would tell what is the best bucher’s meat, the proper seasons of different vegetables, and then, how to roast, and to boil, and to compound.” “ ‘ Mrs. Glasse’s Cookery Book,’ wdiich is reckoned the best,” said Mr. Dilly, the publisher, “ was written by Dr. Hill.” “Well, sjr, this shows,” continued Johnson, “how much better the subject of cookery may be treated by a philosopher ; but you shall see what a book of cookery I shall make, and shall agree with Mr. Dilly for the copyright.” Miss Seward—Johnson’s housekeeper—observed, “ That would be Hercules with the distaff, indeed ! ” “ No, madam,” replied Johnson, snuffily : “ women can spin very well, but they cannot make a good book of cookery.” Women have made a few of them, though, in later years, and very excellent books they are - being practical if not philoso- phical or Johnsonian. Boswell says of this Johnson : “ never knew a man who relished good eating more than he did ; when at table he was absorbed in the business of the moment, nor would he, unless in very high company, say one word, or even pay the least attention to what was said by others, until he had satisfied his appetite,” which was no trifling matter, we are told ; so that, if being a thoroughbred glutton and an epicure as well qualifies a man for giving an opinion on cookery, surely Dr Johnson’s remarks may be taken as evidence enough.