502 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY EUGENE POUAED. Mr. Eugene Pouaed was born at Rugny, France, in May, 1841. His name is familiar to many - as a prominent member of the catering fraternity. He is, however, best known as the prime mover of the first cookery exhibition, held in London in 1885. At an early age Mr. Pouard was apprenticed to the catering business of Monsieur Sautereau, at Tonnerre, in France, where he “ served his time ” for three years. Having gained a good knowledge as cook and pastrycook during the time hp was apprenticed, he proceeded to the town of the“ grande scene ” for cookery, viz., Paris, where he worked in several noted places, and thus gained more knowledge in the art. During the years 1857 and 1858 he officiated in the kitchens of Baron Borell, at Issue, near Mantes. Anxious to gain still more experience, he resigned this position, and made for the great Metropolis, where he arrived in 1860. His first appointment was at the Guards’ mess, Curragh camp, Ireland, where he served as second cook, and later on as chef for nearly two years. He next proceeded to take up a more responsible engagement as chef to the Guards’ mess at AVindsor, where he remained till February 1868. He was next appointed messman to the Brigade of Guards at the Tower of London and Windsor. His success here marked him out for the responsible duties of a caterer, and he was consequently appointed contractor to the Queen’s guard, St. James’s Palace, London, in 1881, where he is still acting in that capacity. Besides his official duties, which he always fulfilled to the satisfaction of his superiors and to the credit of himself, Mr. Pouard at all times took a lively interest in anything concerning the promotion of the art of cookery, especially in the various exhibitions which were held in London, and he never missed an opportunity of making himself useful. He was president of the first cookery exhibition, which took place in 1885 ; and the great success which this first venture obtained was mainly due to the indefatigable manner in which he carried out his duties, which were rewarded by a splendid gold cup, accompanied with an illuminated diploma. He was again nominated as chairman for the Universal Cookery Exhibition held in London in 1888, on which occasion he introduced the now famous demonstrations, and lectured upon the delicate treatment of high-class entrees, &c., and showed the public how to prepare good things in the most practical way. His efforts in connection with this exhibi- tion, as well as with two more that followed, were duly appre- ciated, and in return for his honorary services he was presented with several illuminated addresses and medals; also with the grand decoration of the “ Cordon rouge,” which the Society of that title bestowed upon him.