474 PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY NOTES ON WINES FOR THE TABLE. The wine required for dinner should be on table before dinner is served, to be agreeably presented to the consumer, and should be of the canonical temperature, it being generally conceded that red wines should be warm as compared with white wines, which should be cooler, and, as some prefer, even iced or refreshed on the ice before being drunk. To arrange this properly obviously necessitates a little time. Most wines are considerably improved by being decanted or jugged. It is calculated that the ordinary wine-drinker wastes about one-third of the value of his wine, and sacrifices a considerable proportion of his enjoyment thereof, by allowing it to be served “ in the black bottle.” Not only has wine, and especially old wine, no chance of developing or expan ding those ethers, flavours, and bouquets, which are in truth the enjoyable characteristics of good liquor; but, by continually “ sloshing ” the bottle up and down as each glass is filled, the consumer unavoidably disturbs the sediment, of which the connoisseur is naturally most desirous to get rid, seeing that it is a deposit induced by an incipient fermentation to which all pure wines are liable, whatever their cost or character may happen to be. In point of fact, the higher class wines are probably those that require the most careful handling of a skilful butler or wine-steward. Among wines it is usual to place those of France first, and Champagne first among the wines of France. It was in the neighbourhood of Epernay that the first sparkling wine was made. The process of manufacture has not changed much since the beginning. Both red and white grapes are grown in the Marne. The red gives a drier wine, the white a softer one; and the two are generally mixed together, so as to make a satisfactory average. Great care has to be exercised in gathering the red grapes, and much swiftness used in pressing them, so that none of the colouring matter contained in the skin be communicated to the juice. In hot years, like 1874, the grapes are so ripe that they easily burst when they are gathered, and during the pressing some of the pigments of colour from the skin commu- nicate that light pink hue which distinguishes vintages like 1874 ; but, on the other hand, hot seasons usually give an exceptional wine. Immediately after pressing, the juice is stored in casks and directly undergoes the first stage of fermentation, after which it is racked so as to be freed from the heavier lees. The area that can be planted as vineyards in the Champagne district is rather limited, and as the demand has gone on increa- sing at a very rapid rate, prices have been forced up, and other districts of France have tried their hand at making sparkling wine. Thus we have seen sparkling Burgundy, sparkling Chablis, sparkling Saumur—all excellent wines for the prices they are sold at