PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES 543 half a pint of good gravy (three-parts of a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract), cover with paste, and bake quickly. Beef Olives.—Cut any cold underdone beef in slices, half an inch thick and four inches square; cover them with bread- crumbs, a little fat, finely-chopped onions, pepper and salt. Roll the slices up and fasten with a small skewer; put them into a stewpan with enough water to stew them in ; when nearly done, stir in a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract, and leave for a few minutes. Berlin Steak.—Two pounds round of beef, raw; one medium- sized onion, t lb. beef suet, pepper and salt to taste. Chop the beef and suet very fine; chop the onion very fine; mix well together, and form into shapes size of a fish-ball, and fry slowly in butter till thoroughly cooked through, say for five minutes. Mushroom or tomato sauce may be served with this dish. Braised Beef.—Take 9 lbs. of rump of beef, and cover thickly with small pieces of salt pork or ham, cut half an inch square and rolled in the following seasoning, well mixed: Four onions, a little parsley, thyme, and a little garlic, finely mixed. To what is left over of the seasoning add one pint of vinegar, one good glass of port wine, and a teacup of salad oil. Steep the beef in this for one night. When ready to cook, paper it well up and roast; baste well with half a pint of stock for two and a half hours. Strain the gravy and put into a saucepan, thicken, and add half a teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract. Curry Pasties.—Take some cold meat, free it from skin, fat, and gristle, chop it very finely, season with pepper, salt, and curry powder. Mash some potatoes with an egg, season with pepper and salt. Line a few patty-pans with potato, fill them with meat, cover them over with potato again, ornament the edge, brush them with milk, and bake in a quick oven. Mutton Brains with Tomatoes.—Select three brains and from eight to ten tomatoes'; have ready 2 oz. of butter; wash the brains thoroughly; cleanse, boil, and cut each into three equal parts. Butter the dish (which will afterwards be placed upon the table), dredge it well with bread-crumbs, and lay in the pieces of brain with halves of tomato between each ; place the cut ends of the fruit upwards. Now add a teacupful of good stock; sprinkle with pepper and salt to taste, dredge thickly with bread-crumbs, put the butter in small bits on top, bake to a deep-brown colour, and serve hot. Mutton Cutlets with Macaroni.—Trim the best end of a leg of mutton into neat cutlets, dip them into beaten egg, and sprinkle each side with grated Parmesan cheese, season with pepper and salt; cover with bread-crumbs, patting them neatly on with the blade of a knife. Fry in butter and lard melted