PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY 500 ALFRED SUZANNE. Alfred Suzanne was born in Normandy in the year 1829. His father and his grandfather before him were both notable chefs; but he was destined for another sphere of life, and entered upon his studies in Paris. Unforeseen circumstances, however, determined him to abandon his collegiate career at the age of eighteen, and embrace the calling of his parents; and nowhere have we a more striking exemplification of Darwin’s hereditary theorem than in the case of Suzanne, for, without even a know- ledge of the rudiments of cookery, he confesses that he resolutely embraced his father’s profession, and, student-like, laid the foundation of future success by a careful perusal of the works of the immortal Careme, Brillat-Savarin, and the leading authorities of the day upon culinary and gastronomic matters. With the theoretical information thus acquired, he com- menced his practical career as an apprentice in the kitchen of the Earl of Clarendon, then Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and, mirabile dictu! at the end of six short months found himself promoted to the honourable position of head pastrycook at Dublin Castle, a position which he held for a period of four years. From thence he passed into the service of the Earl of Wilton as chef de cuisine. The “ wicked Earl ”—to give him the name by which he was known among his familiars—was at that time at the zenith of his fame as a sportsman, musician, lady-killer, and leader of society. His epicurism was of the first water, and no man more assidu- ously studied his creature comforts. For the lengthened period of twenty-eight years M. Suzanne ministered to the delights of the table at his lordship’s generous board. On the death of Lord Wilton, in 1882, the Duke of Bedford secured M. Suzanne as controller of his kitchen, and this position he retained for five years, until indifferent health led him to seek permanent repose and the ntium cum dignitate to which good and even brilliant work had entitled him.