THE AMNION. at the same time separating from their point of attachment to the body of the young chick, so that when the chick leaves the egg-shell it bursts through the dried-up membranes and leaves them behind as useless structures. The Amnion.—Turning now to the human embryo, it will be found that the same organs are present, though some- what modified either in the mode or the extent of then- development. A well-developed amnion occurs, arising, how- ever, in a very different manner from what it does in the chick; a large yolk-sac occurs even though it contains no yolk; and an allantois which has no respiratory or excretory functions is present, though in a somewhat degenerated con- dition. It has been seen from the description of the earliest stages of development that the processes which occur in the lower forms are greatly abbreviated in the human embryo. The enveloping layer, instead of gradually extending from oiie pole to enclose the eiitire ovum, develops in situ durnig the stages immedTatefy'^succeeding segmentation, and _tlTe_ e2ctra;:embryonic mesoderm, instead of growing out from the embryo to enclose the yolk-sac, splits off directl}^Jrom^ ^ tlie enveloping layer. The earliest stages in the develop- ment of the amnion are not yet known for the human em- bryo, but from the condition in which it is found in the Peters embryo (Fig. 35) and in the embryo v.H. of von Spee (Fig. 37) it is probable that it arises, not by the fusion of the edges of a fold, as in the chick, but by a vacuolization of a portion of the inner cell-mass, as has been described as occurring in the bat (p. 57). It is, then, a closed cavity from the very beginning, the floor of the cavity being formed by the embryonic disk, its posterior wall by the anterior sur- face of the belly-stalk, while its roof and sides are._tliin_and_.. composed of a single layer of flattened ectodermal cells Hned on the outside by a layer of mesoderm contmuous with the somatic mesoderm of the embryo and the mesoderm of the belly-stalk (Fig,,63, A).