'44 •THE SEGMENTATION OF THE OVUM. similarity between the two, the large yolk-mass of the rep- tile (F) with the scattered cells which it contains corre- sponding to the lower pole cells of the amphibian blastula, the central cavity of which is practically suppressed in the reptile. Beyond this stage, however, the similarity becomes more obscured. The peripheral cells of the disk continue to extend over the surface of the yolk and finally completely ^enclose it, forming an enveloping layer which is completed =at the upper pole of the egg by the discoidal cell-mass, or, as it is usually termed, the blastoderm. Turning now to the mammalia,* it will be found that the ovum in the great majority is almost or quite as desti- tute of food yolk as is the ovum of Amphioxus, with the result that the segmentation is of the total or holoblastic type. It does not, however, proceed with that regularity which marks the segmentation of Amphioxus or an am- phibian, but while at first it divides into two slightly unequal cells (Fig. 20), thereafter the divisions become irregular, three-celled, four-celled, five-celled, and six-celled stages having been observed in various instances. Nor is the re- sult of the final segmentation a hollow vesicle or blastula, b^ a solid mass of cells, termed a morula, is formed. This structure is not, however, comparable to the blastula of the lower forms, but corresponds to a stage of reptilian devel- opment a little later than that shown in Fig. 19, since, as will be shown directly, the cells corresponding to the blasto- derm and the enveloping layer are already present. There is, then, no blastula stage in the mammalian development. Differentiation now begins by the peripheral cells of the morula becoming less spherical in shape and later forming a layer of flattened cells, the enveloping layer, surrounding * The segmentation of the human ovum has not yet been observed; what follows is based on what occurs in the ovum of the rabbit, mole, and especially of a bat (Van Beneden).