477 THE EYE. verse furrows which mark off three tubercles (Fig. 258, A, 1-3) and on the anterior edge of the second arch a corre- sponding number of tubercles (4-6) is formed, while, in addition, a longitudinal furrow, running down the middle of the arch, marks of¥ a ridge (c) lying posterior to the tubercles. From these six tubercles and the ridge are devel- oped the various parts of the auricle, as may be seen from Fig. 258. The most ventral tubercle of the first arch (i) gives rise to the tragus, and the middle one (5) of the sec- ond arch furnishes the antitragiis. The middle and dorsal tubercles of the first arch (2 and 3) unite with the ridge (c) to produce the helix, while from the dorsal tubercle of the second arch (4) is produced the anthelix and from the ventral one (6) the lobule. It is noteworthy that at about the third month of development the upper and posterior portion of the helix is bent forward so as to conceal the anthelix; it is at just about a corresponding stage that the pointed form of the ear seen in the lower mammals makes its appearance, and it is evident that, were it not for the forward bending, the human ear would also be assuming •at this stage a more or less pointed form. Indeed, there is usually to be found upon the incurved edge of the helix, some distance below the upper border of the auricle, a more or less distinct tubercle, known as Danmn's tubercle, which seems to represent the point of the typical mammalian ear, and is, accordingly, the morphological apex of the pinna. There seems to be little room for doubt that the otocyst belongs primarily to the system of lateral line sense-organs, but a discussion of this interesting question would necessitate a consideration of details concerning the development of the lower vertebrates which would be foreign to the general plan of this book. It may be recalled, however, that the analysis of the components of the cranial nerves described on page 447 refers the auditory nerve to the lateral line system. The Development of the Eye.—The first indications of