DEVELOPMENT OF THE MOUTH REGION. hibition of development which brings about this condition may take place at different stages, but frequently it occurs while the plates still have an almost vertical direction. A second variety of cleft palates may result from failure of the palatal plates to unite with the premaxillary portions of the jaw, a condition which is associated with hare-lip (see page 89), although this abnormality may exist without an involvement of the palate. Before the formation of the palate begins, a potich is formed in thejriedianiine of the roof of the oral sinus, jusj: infront of the pharYngeaLmmibrane^ by an_outgrowth of the epithfilinm. This poucli^_kiiown as BMhk£i^-^iauch, comes in contact above with a downgrowth from^the floor of the brain and forms with it the pituitary body (see p. 424). The Development of the Teeth.—When the epithelial downgrowth which gives rise to the lip groove is formed, a horizontal outgrowth develops from it which extends back- ward into the substance of the jaw, forming what is termed the dental shelf (Fig. 165, A). This at first is situated on the anterior surface of the jaw, but with the continued devel- opment of the lip fold it is gradually shifted until it comes to lie upon the free surface (Fig. 165, B), where its super- ficial edge is marked by a distinct groove, the dental groove (Fig. 164). At first the dental shelf of each jaw is a con- tinuous plate of cells, uniform in thickness throughout its entire width, but later ten thickenings develop upon its deep edge, and beneath each of these the mesoderm condenses to form a dental papilla, over the surface of which the thick- ening, moulds itself to form a cap, termed the enamel organ (Fig. 165, B). These ten papillae in each jaw, with their enamel caps, represent the teeth of the first dentition. The papillae do not, however, project into the very edge oi the dental shelf, but obliquely into what, in the lower jaw, was originally.its under surface (Fig. 165, B), so that the edge of the shelf is free to grow still deeper into the