2l6 THE CRANIAL MUSCULATURE. strained, chiefly because long-continued custom has regarded the histological and physiological peculiarities of striated and non-striated muscle tissue as fundamental. It may be pointed out, however, that the branchiomeric muscles are, strictly speak- ing, visceral muscles, and indeed give rise to muscle sheets (the constrictors of the pharynx) which surround the upper or pharyngeal portion of the digestive tract. It is possible, then, that the homology is not so strained as might appear, but further discussion of it may profitably be deferred until the cranial nerves are under consideration. The skeleton of the first branchial arch becomes converted partly into the jaw apparatus and partly into auditory ossicles, and the muscles derived from the corresponding branchiomere become the muscles of mastication (the tem- poral, masseter, and pterygoids), the mylohyoid, anterior lielly of the digastric, the tensor veli palatini and the tensor tympani. The nerve which corresponds to the first bran- chial arch is the trigeminus or fifth, and consequently these various muscles are supplied by it. The second arch has corresponding to it the seventh nerve, and its musculature is partly represented by the stylo- hyoid and posterior belly of the digastric and by the stape- dius muscle of the middle ear. From the more superficial portions of the branchiomere, however, a sheet of tissue arises which gradually extends upward and downward to form a thin covering for the entire head and neck, its lower portion giving rise to the platysma and the nuchal fascia which extends backward from the dorsal border of this muscle, while its upper parts become the occipito-frontalis and the superficial muscles of the face (the muscles of ex- pression), together with the fasciae which unite the various muscles of this group. The extension of the platysma sheet of muscles over the face is well shown by the development of the branches of the facial nerve which supply it (Fig. 117). The degeneration of the upper part of the third arch produces a shifting forward of one of the muscles derived