THE PERITONEUM. 348 ing uutvvard, takes place, the fused layers becoming con- verted into connective tissue, and this portion of the colon tlius^loses its mesentery aiid becomes fixed to tlie^^bdominal \valL The process by which the fixation is accomplished may be understood from the diagrams which constitute Fig. 193. When the ascending colon is formed, its mesen- tery undergoes a similar fusion, and it also becomes fixed to the abdominal wall. The fusion of the mesentery of the ascending and descend- ing colon remains incomplete in a considerable number of cases (one fourth to one third of all cases examined), and in these the colons are not perfectly fixed to the abdominal wall. It may also be pointed out that the caecum and appendix, being primarily a lateral outpouching of the intestine, do not possess any true mesentery, but are completely enclosed by peritoneum. Usually a falciform fold of peritoneum may be found extend- ing along one surface of the appendix to become continuous with the left layer*of the mesentery of the ileum. This, how- ever, is not a true mesentery, and is better spoken of as a mesenteriole. One other fusion is still necessary before the adult condi- tion of the mesentery is acquired. The great omentum consists of two folds of peritoneum which start from the greater curvature of the stomach and pass downward to be reflected up again to the dorsal wall of the abdomen, which they reach just anterior to (above) the line of attach- ment of the transverse mesocolon (Fig. 194, A). At first the attachment of the omentum is vertical, since it repre- sents the mesogastrium, but later, by fusion with the parietal peritoneum, it assumes a transverse direction, while at the same time the pancreas, which originally lay between the two folds of the mesogastrium, is carried dorsally and comes to have a retroperitoneal position in the line of at- tachment of the omentum. By this change the lower layer of the omentum is brought in contact with the upper layer of the transverse mesocolon and a fusion and degeneration