406 THE HISTOGENESIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Various theories have been advanced to account for the formation of the medullary sheaths. It has been held that the myelin is formed at the expense of the outermost portions of the axis-cylinders themselves (von Kolliker), and, on the other hand, it has been regarded as an excretion of the cells which compose the primitive sheaths surrounding the fibers (Ran- vier), a theory which is, however, invalidated by the fact that myelin is formed around the fibers of the central nervous sys- tem which possess no primitive sheaths. As stated above, the more recent observations (Wlassak) indicate its exogenous origin. It has been seen that the central canal is closed in the mid-dorsal line by a mass of cells derived from the neural crest Tliese cells do not take part in the formation of the mantle layer, biit become completely converted into e]>en(l\'nial tissue, and the same is true of the cells situated in the mid-ventral line of the canal. In these two regions, known as the roof-pkite and floovulate respectively, the wall of the canal has a characteristic structure and does not share to any great extent in the increase of thickness which distinguishes the other regions (Fig. 224). In the lateral walls of the canal there is also noticeable a differentiation into two regions, a dorsal one standing in relation to the ingrowing fibers from the dorsal root ganglia and known as the dorsal zone, and a ventral one, the ventral zone, simi- larly related to the ventral nerve-roots. In different regions of the medullary tube these zones, as well as the roof- and floor-plates, undergo different degrees of development, pro- ducing peculiarities which may now be considered. The Development of the Spinal Cord.—Even before the lips of the medullary groove have met a marked enlarge- ment of the anterior portion of the canal is noticeable, the region which will become the brain being thus distinguished from the more posterior portion which will be converted into the spinal cord. When the formation of the meso- dermic somites is completed, the spinal cord terminates at