LITERATURE. penetrates the body, which thus assumes the adult condition in which it presents a general resemblance to a group of lymph folHcles. It has generally been supposed that the coccygeal gan- glion was in part derived from the sympathetic nervous system and belonged to the same group" of organs as the suprarenal bodies. The most recent work on its develop- ment (Stoerk) tends, however, to disprove this view, and the ganglion seems accordingly to find its place among the lymphoid organs. LITERATURE. E. VAN Beneden and C. Julin : " Recherches sur la formation des an- nexes foetales chez les mammiferes," Archives de Biolog., v, 1884. A. C. Bernays : " Entwickelungsgeschichte der Atrioventricular- klappen," Morphol. Jahrhuch, 11, 1876. G. Born : " Beitrage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte des Saugethierher- zens," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xxxiii, 1889. J. Disse: "Die Entstehung des Blutes und der ersten Gefasse im Huh- nerei," Arc hiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xvi, 1879. A. C. F. Eternod: " Premiers stades de la circulation sanguine dans I'oeuf ei I'ernbryon humain," Anat. Anseiger, xv, 1899. W. His: "Anatomic menschlicher Embryonen," Leipzig, 1880-1882. F. Hochstetter: "Ueber die ursprungliche Hauptschlagader der hin- teren GHedmasse des Menschen und der Saugethiere, nebst Bemer- kungen iiber die Entwicklung der Endaste der Aorta abdominalis," Morphol. Jahrhuch, xvi, 1890. F. Hochstetter: "Ueber die Entwicklung der A. vertebralis beim Kaninchen, nebst Bemerkungen iiber die Entstehung der Ansa Vieusseni," Morphol. Jahrhuch, xvi, 1890. F. Hochstetter: "Beitrage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte des Venensys- tems der Amnioten," Morphol. Jahrhuch, xx, 1893. W. H. Howell: "The Life-history of the Formed Elements of the Blood, Especially the Red Blood-corpuscles," Journ. of Morphol., IV, 1890. W. H. Howell: "Observations on the Occurrence, Structure and Function of the Giant-cells of the Marrow," Journ. of Morbh IV, 1890. ^ ■■' G. H. Huntington and C. F. W. McClure: "Development of Post- cava and Tributaries in the Domestic Cat," Amor. Journ Anat VI, 1907.