THE PRONEPHROS. there appear in embryos of between 3 and 4 mm. a num- more in number on each side, are primarily arranged segment- ally, and open by one extremity into the anterior portion of the Wolffian duct and by the other into the coelomic cavity, and, furthermore, each tubule has corresponding to it a glomerulus which lies freely in the coelomic cavity in the vicinity of the nephrostome. By these free glomeruli and by the possession of nephrostomes the tubules of the pronephros are distin- guished from those of the mesonephros in the higher verte- brates, and since both these peculiarities are represented in the two pairs of tubules described above as occurring in the 3 mm. human embryo, there seems to be little room for doubt but that they are representatives of a rudimentary pronephros. > It has been very generally supposed that the tubules of the mesonephros, which develop in the segments succeeding those which contain the pronephros, were serially homologous with the pronephric tubules. Doubts have recently been aroused against this theory (Riickert, Wheeler). Important structural differences exist in the two sets of tubules, and since even in the lowest vertebrates the pronephros seems to be a rudimen- tary structure, it has been held not improbable that in the ancestors of the vertebrates it was a much more perfectly developed organ extending back into the region occupied by the mesonephros in existing vertebrates. As the mesonephros developed the pronephros underwent degeneration, portions of its tubules persisting, however, and uniting to form a continu- ous canal, the pronephric duct, a structure for which, other- wise, it is difficult to find a satisfactory explanation. The fact that in lower forms the duct seems to develop as a number of separate parts which later become continuous stands in favor of this hypothesis, but in opposition to it is the observation that the lower portion of the duct in several species of mam- mals arises from the ectoderm (von Spee, Flemming). It seems, however, to be established that in the majority of the lower vertebrates it is of purely mesodermal origin, and its connection with the ectoderm in the mammalia is therefore very probably due to a secondary fusion (Martin). The Development of the Mesonephros.—The pro- nephric duct does not disappear with the degeneration of the pronephric tubules, but persists to serve as the duct for the mesonephros and to play an important part in the devel- opment of the metanephros also. In the Wolffian ridge