THE IRIS AND CILIARY BODY. 486 that formed by the invagination of the outer portion of the bulb, and which may be termed the retinal layer—remains much thicker (Fig. 261) and in its proximal portions even increases in thickness. Later, however, the development of the ciliary and retinal portions of the retinal layers differs, and it will be convenient to consider first the history of the ciliary portion. The Development of the Iris and Ciliary Body.—The first change noticeable in the ciliary portion of the retinal layer is its thinning out, a process which continues until the layer consists, like the pigment layer, of but a single layer of cells (Fig. 264), the transition of which to the thicker retinal portion of the layer is somewhat abrupt and corresponds to what is termed the qra serrata in adult anatomy. In em- bryos of 10.2 cm. the retinal layer throughout its entire extent is readily distinguishable from the pigment layer by the absence in it of all pigmentation, but in older forms this distinction gradually diminishes in the iris region, the retinal layer there acquiring pigment and forming the uvea. When the anterior chamber of the eye is formed by the splitting of the mesoderm which has grown in between the superficial ectoderm and the outer surface of the lens, the peripheral portions of its posterior (inner) wall are in rela- tion with the ciliary portion of the optic cup and give jjsg to thejtrpmaoi the ciliary body_and^ijhejris_.( Fig. 264), this latter being continuous with the tunica vasculosa lentis so long as that structure persists (Fig. 271). In embryos of about 14.5 cm. the ciliary portion of the cup becomes thrown into radiating folds (Fig. 264), as if by a too rapid growth, and into the folds lamellae of mesoderm project from the stroma. These folds occur not only throughout the region of the ciliary body, but also extend into the iris region, where, however, they are but temporary structures, disappearing entirely by the end of the fifth months The