THE INTERCAROTID GANGLIA. 397 Some confusion has existed in the past as to the origin of this structure. The mesial wall of the proximal part of the internal carotid artery becomes considerably thickened during the early stages of development and the thickening is traversed by numerous blood lacunae v^hich communicate with the lumen of the vessel. This condition is perhaps a relic of the branchial capillaries which in the lower gill-breathing vertebrates repre- sent the proximal portion of the internal carotid, and has noth- ing to do with the formation of the intercarotid ganglion, although it has been believed by some authors (Schaper) that the ganglion was derived from the thickening of the wall of the vessel. The fact that in some animals, such as the rat and the dog, the ganglion stands in relation with the external caro- tid and. receives its blood-supply from that vessel is of import- ance in this connection. The thickening of the internal carotid disappears in the higher vertebrates almost entirely, but in the Amphibia it per- sists throughout life, the lumen of the proximal part of the vessel being converted into a fine meshwork by. the numerous trabeculae which traverse it. This carotid labyrinth has been termed the carotid gland, a circumstance which has probably assisted in producing confusion as to the real significance of the intercarotid ganglion. The Organs of Zuckerkandl.—In embryos of 14.5 mm, there have been found, in front of the abdominal aorta, closely packed groups of cells which resemble in appear- ance the cells composing the ganglionated cord, two of these groups, which extend downward along the side of the aorta to below the point of origin of the inferior mesenteric artery, being especially distinct. These cell groups give rise to the ganglia, of the prsevertebral sympathetic plexuses and also to peculiar bodies which, from their discoverer, may be termed the organs of Zuckerkandl. Each body stands in intimate relation with the fibers of the sympathetic plexuses and has a rich blood-supply, resembling in these respects the intercarotid ganglia, and the resemblance is further increased by the fact that the specific cells of the organ are markedly chromaffine. At birth the bodies situated in the upper portion of the