32 THE in-.RTlIJZ.\TJON OK TJllv OVUM. in lower forms, and a thorough study of the process has been made on the mouse by Sobotta, whose observations are taken as a basis for the following account. The maturation of the ovum is quite independent of fer- tilization, but in many forms the penetration of the sperma- tozoon into the ovum takes place before the maturation phenomena are completed. This is the case with the mouse. A spermatozoon makes its way through the zona pellucida and becomes embedded in the cytoplasm of the ovum and its tail is quickly absorbed by the cytoplasm while its nucleus and probably the middle-piece persist as distinct structures. As soon as the maturation divisions are completed the nucleus of the ovum, now termed the female pronucleus (Fig. 15, ck), migrates toward the center of the ovum, and is now destitute of an archoplasm sphere and centro- some. the,'^^ iSt.r^^tli^'P'^ having disappeared after the mm^ pletion of the rngfr^^^i'^^"^ rli'vicmnc^ The spermatozoon nucleus, which, after it has penetrated the ovum, is termed the male pronucleus (spk), may lie at first at almost any point in the peripheral part of the cytoplasm, and it now begins to approach the female pronucleus, preceded by the middle-piece, which becomes an archoplasm sphere with its contained centrosome and is surrounded by astral rays. The two pronuclei finally come into contact near the center of the ovum, forming what is termed the segmentation nucleus (Fig. 15), and the archoplasm sphere and centro- some which have been introduced with the spermatozoon undergo division and the two archoplasm spheres so formed migrate to opposite poles of the segmentation nucleus, an amphiaster forms and the compound nucleus passes through the various prophases of mitosis. Since, in the mouse, the male and female pronuclei have each contributed twelve chromosomes, the equatorial plate of the mitosis is com- posed of twenty-four chromosomes, the number character- istic for the species being thus restored.