210 THE TRUNK MUSCULATURE. The Trunk Musculature.—It has aheady been seen (p. io8) that the myotomes at first occupy a dorsal position, becoming prolonged ventrally as development proceeds so as to overlap the somatic mesoderm, until those of opposite sides come into contact in the mid-ventral line. Before this is accomplished, however, a longitudinal splitting of each myotome occurs, whereby there is separated off a dorsal portion which gives rise to a segment of the dorsal muscu- lature of the trunk and is supplied by the ramus dorsalis of its corresponding spinal nerve. In the lower vertebrates this separation of each of the trunk myotomes into a dorsal and ventral portion is much more distinct in the adult than it is in man, the two portions being separated by a horizontal plate of connective tissue extending the entire length of the trunk and being attached by its inner edge to the transverse processes of the vertebrae, while peripherally it becomes con- tinuous with the connective tissue of the dermis along a line known as the lateral line. In man the dorsal portion is also much smaller in proportion to the ventral portion than in the lower vertebrates. From this dorsal portion of the myotomes are derived the muscles belonging to the three deepest layers of the dorsal musculature, the more .super- ficial layers being composed of muscles belonging to the limb system. Further longitudinal and tangential divisions and a fusion of successive myotomes bring about the condi- tions which obtain in the adult dorsal musculature. While the myotomes are still some distance from the mid- ventral line another longitudinal division affects their ventral edges (Fig. T15), portions being thus separated which later fuse more or less perfectly to form longitudinal bands of muscle, those of opposite sides being brought into apposition along the mid-ventral line by the continued growth ventrally of the myotomes. In this way are formed the rectus and pyramidalis muscles of the abdomen and the depressors of