THE MESODERMIC SOMITES. io6 rated off. They are, however, of but short duration and early become filled up by spindle-shaped cells derived from the walls of the somites, which themselves undergo a differ- entiation into distinct portions. The cells of that portion of the wall of each somite which is opposite the notochord become spindle-shaped and grow inward toward the median line to surround the notochord and central nervous system, and give rise eventually to the lateral half of the body of a vertebra and the corresponding portion of a vertebral arch. This portion of the somite is termed a sclerotome (Fig. 60, S), and the remainder forms_a muscle plate or jm^atnme (M) which is destined to give rise to a portion of the volun- tary musculature of the body. The outer wall of the somite has been generally believed to take part in the formation of the cutis layer of the integument and hence has been termed the cutis plate or dermatome, but it seems probable that it becomes entirely transformed into muscular tissue. Thejntermediate cell-mass in the human embryo, as in lower forms, partakes of the transverse divisions which separate the individual mesodermic somites. From onejpor- tion of the tissue in most_of_the somites (Fig^^o^Fw) the provisiormn^idbeys_QrJWi3lffiaiL^^ develop, this portion of each nias.sbejnp;J;gnBg^i-^ nephrotow^ while the remain- ing portion gives rise to a ma^s of cells showing no tendency to arrange themselves in definite lavers and constituting that form^fjiiesoderm which has been termed niesenchyme [(see p. 65). These mesenchymatous masses become con- 1 verted into connective tissues and blood-vessels. The ventral mesoderm in the neck and trunk regions never become divided transversely into segments correspond- ing to the mesodermic somites, differing in this respect from the other portions of the gastral mesoderm. In the head, however, that portion of the middle layer which corresponds to the ventral mesoderm of the trunk does undergo a division