DEVELOPMENT OF APPENDICULAR SKELETON. 196 the ccntralc (Fig. no, c) and occupies a position between the cartilages of the proximal and distal rows and appa- rently corresponds to a cartilage typically present in lower forms and ossifying to form a distinct bone. In the human carpus its fate varies, as it may either disappear or unite with other cartilages, that with which it most usually fuses being probably the radiale. There is evidence also to show that another of the accessory cartilages unites with the ulnar element of the distal row, representing the carpale v typically present in lower forms. Each of the elements corresponding to an adult bone ossifies from a single center with the exception of carpale iV^ which has two centers, a further indication of its composite character. The relation of the cartilages to the adult bones may be seen from the table given on page 198. With regard to the metacarpals and phalanges, it need merely be stated that each develops from a single primary center for the shaft and one secondary epiphysial center. The primary center appears at about the middle of the shaft except in the terminal phalanges, in which it appears at the distal end of the cartilage. The epiphyses for the meta- carpals are at the distal ends of the bones, except in the case of the metacarpal of the thumb, which resembles the phalanges in having its epiphysis at the proximal end. Each innominate bone appears as a somewhat oval plate of cartilage whose long axis is directed almost at right angles to the vertebral column and which is in close rela- tion with the fourth and fifth sacral vertebras. As devel- opment proceeds a rotation of the cartilage, accompanied by a slight shifting of position, occurs, so that eventually the plate has its long axis almost parallel with the vertebral column and is in relation with the first three sacrals. Ossi- fication appears at three points in each cartilage, one in the upper part to form the ilinm (Fig. in, il) and two in the