THE BRAIN. 409 matter is much more pronounced, but on the development of the dorsal nerve-roots the formation of neuroblasts in the dorsal zone proceeds apace, resulting in the formation of a dorsal horn. A small portion of the zone, situated between the point' of entrance of the dorsal nerve-roots and the roof-plate, fails, however, to give rise to neuroblasts and is entirely converted into ependyma. This represents the future fasciculus of Goll (Fig. 224, A,cG), and at the point of entrance of the dorsal roots into the cord a welTmarl^ed oval biin.dle~oflibers i^s_fomed.(Fig. 224, A, oh) which, as^ development proceeds, creeps dorsally over the surface of the'^ofsal horn until it meets the lateral surface of the fas- - ciculuFo^f Goll, and, its further progress toward the niedian line being thus impeded, it insinuates itself J)etween that fascrculus and the posterior horn to form the fasciculus of Burdach (Fig. 224, B, cB). Little definite is as yet known concerning the development of the other fasciculi which are recognizable in the adult cord, but it seems certain that the lateral and anterior cerebro-spinal (pyramidal) fasciculi are composed of fibers which grow downward in the meshes of the marginal velum from neuro- blasts situated in the cerebral cortex, while the cerebello-spinal (direct cerebellar) fasciculi and the fibers of the ground- bundles have their origin from cells of the mantle layer of the cord. The myelination of the fibers of the spinal cord begins between the fifth and sixth months and appears first in the fasciculi of Burdach, and about a month later in the fasciculi of Goll. The myelination of the great motor paths, the lateral and anterior cerebro-spinal fasciculi, is the last to develop, appearing toward the end of the ninth month of_fetal life. The Development of the Brain.—The enlargement of the anterior portion of the medullary canal does not take place quite uniformly, but is less along two transverse lines than elsewhere, so that the brain region early becomes di- vided into three primary vesicles which undergo further dif- ferentiation as follows. Upon each side of the anterior 36