POST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. 5 ' 3 ital condyles, it will divide the base of the skull into two por- tions, which in the child's skull are equal in length. The portion of the skull in front of a similar line in the adult skull is very much greater than that which lies behind, the proportion between the two parts being 5:3, against 3:3 in the child (Froriep). There has, therefore, been a decid- edly more rapid growth of the anterior portion of the skull, a growth which is associated with a corresponding increase in the dorso-ventral dimensions of the maxillae. These bones, indeed, play a very important part in determining the proportions of the skull at different periods. They are so intimately associated with the cranial portions of-the skull that their increase necessitates a corresponding in- crease in the anterior part of the cranium, and their increase in this direction stands in relation to the development of the teeth, the eight teeth which are developed in each maxilla (including the premaxilla) in the adult requiring a longer bone than do the five teeth of the primary dentition, these again requiring a greater length when completely developed than they do in their immature condition in the new-born child. But far more striking than the difference just described is that in the relative height of the cranial and facial regions (Fig. 276). It has been estimated that the volumes of the two portions have a ratio of 8: i in the new-born child, 4: i at five years of age, and 2:1 in the adult skull (Froriep), and these differences are due principally to changes in the vertical dimensions of the maxillae. As with the increase in length, the increase now under consideration is, to a cer- tain extent at least, associated with the development of the teeth, these structures calling into existence the. alveolar processes which are practically wanting in the child at birth. But a more important factor is the development of th€ max- illary sinuses, the practically solid bodies of the maxilla