THE DESCENT OF THE OVARIES. Male. Female. Urogenital sinus Genital tubercle Genital folds Urinary bladder. Proximal portion of urethra. Bulbo-urelhral glands. The rest of the urethra. Penis. Prepuce and integument of penis. Scrotum. Urinary bladder. Urethra. Bulbo-vestihular glands. Vestibule. Clitoris. Labia minora. Genital swellings Labia majora. It is stated above that the layers which compose the walls of the scrotum are identical with those of the abdominal wall. This may be seen in detail from the following scheme: offers a serious bar to the fulfilment of the sexual act. If the hypospadias is complete and there be at the same time an imperfect development of the penis, as frequently occurs in such cases, the male genitalia closely resemble those of the female and a condition is produced which is usually known as hermaphroditism'. It is noteworthy that in such cases there is frequently a somewhat excessive development of the uterus masculinus, and a similar condition may be produced in the female by an excessive development of the clitoris. Such cases, however, which concern only the accessory organs of reproduction, are instances of what is more properly termed spurious hermaphroditism, true hermaphroditism being a term which should be reserved for possible cases in which the geni- tal ridges give rise in the same individual to both ova and spermatozoa. Such cases are of exceeding rarity in the human species, although occasionally observed in the lower vertebrates, and the great majority of the examples of hermaphroditism hitherto observed are cases of the spurious variety. The Descent of the Ovaries and Testes.—The posi- tions finally occupied by the ovaries and testes are very dif- ferent from those which they possess in the earlier stages of development, and this is especially true in the case of the Abdominal Walls. Scrotum. Integument. Superficial fascia. External oblique muscle. Internal oblique muscle. Transverse muscle. Peritoneum. Integument. Dartos. Intercolumnar fascia. Cremasteric fascia. Infundibuliform fascia. Tunica vaginalis.