291 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SPLEEN. (Mall) have shown that the spleen may well be regarded as possessing a structure cqmparable_lo that of the lymph nodes, the £ulp being more or less distinctly divided by trabeculie into areasj;ermed pulp cords, tj2ej!2qs_oLeach, ofj,vhichJs^ occupied bv a twig of the splenic arterv. The spleen, therefore, seems to fall into the same category of organs as the lymph and hsemolymph nodes, differing from these chiefly in the absence of sinuses. It has generally been regarded as a development of the mesenchyme situated between the two layers of the mesogastrium. To this view, however, recent observers have taken exception, holding that the ultimate origin of the organ is in part or entirely from the coelomic epithelium of the left layer of the meso- gastrium. The first indication of the spleen has been ob- served in embryos of the fifth week as a slight elevation on the left (dorsal) surface of the mesogastrium, due to a local thickening and vascularization of the mesenchyme, accom- panied by a thickening of the coelomic epithelium which covers the elevation. The mesenchyme thickening presents no differences from the neighboring mesenchyme, but the epithelium is not distinctly separated from it over its entire surface, as it is elsewhere in the mesentery. In later jtages, which have been observed in detail in pig and other amniote embryos, cells separate from the deeper layers of the epir^ theliurn_(Fig. 161) and ^ass into the mesenchvme thicken- ing, whose tissue soon assumes a different appearance from the surroundmg mesenchyme by its cells being much crowded. This migration soon ceases, however, and in embryos of forty-two days the coelomic epithelium covering the thickening is reduced to a simple layer of cells. The later stages of development consist of an enlarge- ment of the thickening and its gradual constriction from the surface of the mesogastrium, untirTfls'finaily united tolt only by a narrow band through which the large splenic