LITERATURE. 501 with the ectoderm of the edges of the upper and lower Hds, respectively, and represent the lachrymal ducts, and, finally, the solid cord and its outgrowths acquire a lumen. The inferior duct connects with the border of the eyelid some distance lateral to the inner angle of the eye, and between its opening and the angle a number of tarsal glands develop. The superior duct, on the other hand, opens at first close to the inner angle and later moves laterally until its opening is opposite that of the inferior duct. During this change the portion of the lower lid between the opening of the inferior duct and the angle is drawn somewdiat up- wards, and, with its glands, forms a small reddish nodule, resting upon the plica semilunaris and known as the carmi- ciila lacrimalis. _ LITERATURE. G. Alexander : " Ueber Entwicklung und Bau des Pars inferior Laby- rinthi der hoheren Siiiigethiere," Denkschr. kais. zvissench. Acad. Wien, Math.-Natnrw. Classe, lxx, 1901. A. Angelucci : " Ueber Entwickelung und Bau des vorderen Uveal- tractus der Vertebraten," Archiv fur mikrosk. Anat., xix, 1881. F. Ask : " Ueber die Entwickelung der Caruncula lacrimalis beim Men- scben, nebst Bemerkungen iiber die Entwickelung der Tranen- rohrchen und der Meibom'schen Driisen," Anatoni. Anzeiger, xxx, 1907. B. Baginsky: "Zur Entwickelung der Gehorschneckc," Archiv fur mikrosk. Anat., xxviii, 1886. I. Broman : " Die Entwickelungsgeschichte der Gehorknochelchen beim Menschen," Anat. Heffe, xi, 1898. ;:S. Ramon y Cajal: " Nouvelles contributions a I'etude histologique de la retine,'7ottm. de I'Anat. et de la Physiol, xxxii, 1896. J. Disse: "Die erste Entwickelung der Riechnerven," Anat. Hefte, IX, 1897. B. Fleischer: "Die Entwickelung der Tranenrohrchen bei den Sauge- tiere," Archiv fur Ophthalmol, Lxii, 1906. H. FucHS: "Bemerkungen iiber die Herkunft und Entwickelung der Gehorknochelchen bei Kaninchen-Embryonen (nebst Bemerkungen uber die Entwickelung des Knorpelskeletes der beiden ersten Visceralbogen)," Archiv fiir Anat. und Phys., Anat. Abth., Subble- ment, 1905.