THE HISTOGENESIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 405 appear as chains of cells and that the axis-cylinders, being differentiated from the cytoplasm of the chains, are really multicellular products. Many difficulties stand in the way of the acceptance of this view and recent observations, both his- togenetic (Cajal) and experimental (Harrison) tend to con- firm the unicellular origin of the axis-cylinders. The embryo- logical evidence therefore goes to support the neurone theory, which regards the entire nervous system as composed of sepa- rate units, each of which corresponds to a single cell and is termed a neurone. By the development of the axis-cylinders which occupy the meshes of the marginal velum, that zone increases in thickness and comes to consist principally of nerve-fibers, while the cell-bodies of the neurones of the cord are situ- ated in the mantle zone. No such definite distinction of color in the two zones as exists in the adult is, however, noticeable until a late period of development, the medullary sheaths, which give to the nerve-fibers their white appear- ance not beginning to appear until the fifth month and con- tinuing to form from that time onward until after birth. The origin of the myelin which composes the medullary sheaths is as yet uncertain, although the more recent obser- vations tend to show that it is picked out from the blood and deposited around the axis-cylinders in some manner not yet understood. Its appearance is of importance as being associated with the beginning of the functional activity of the nerve-fibers. In addition to the medullary sheaths the majority of the fibers of the peripheral nervous system are provided with primitive sheaths, which are lacking, however, to the fibers of the central system. They are formed by cells which wander out from the dorsal root-ganglia and are therefore of ectodermal origin. Frog larvae deprived of their neural crests at an early stage of development produce ventral nerve fibers altogether destitute of primitive sheaths (Harrison).