24'0 THE FORMATION OF THE BLOOD. the nuclei become larger and the cytoplasm more voluminous I ajld__amceboid, the cells being then known as mononuclear I leukocytes, and transitional forms lead from these to^tiir , laj-ger cells with irregularly lobed or branched nuclei, the , polymorphonuclear leukocytes, while these again seem to \ lead to polynuclear cells. It is probable that these yariqus^ \ kinds of cells stand in genetic relation to one another, the ^ polymorphonuclear and polynuclear forms perhaps repre- senting the commencement of the degeneration and break- ^ ing down of the elements. In_the fetal hgematopoietic organs and in the bone-marrow of the adult Jarge, so-called giant-cells are found, which, although they do not enter into the general circulation, are yet associated with the development of the blood-corpuscles. These giant-cells as they occur in the bone-marrow are of two kinds which seem to be quite distinct, although both are probably_forrned^ from leukocytes. In one kind the cyto- plasm contains several nuclei, whence they have been termed polycaryocytes, and they seem to beJhej^ells which have al- ready been mentioiiecl as_ostmcla_s^ (p. 165). In the_otlTer kind (Fig, 129) the nucleus es single, but it is large and irregular in shape, frequently appearing as if it were_pro- ducing buds. These megacaryocyte£ appear to be phago- c^tic cells, havingjis their function the destruction of degen- erated corpuscles and of the nuclei of the erythrocytes. Little is certainly known as yet as to_ the origin of the blood-platelets, though the most plausible suggestion is that they are the fragmented nuclei of broken-down leukoc3^tes. The question of the origin of the various forms of blood- elements is a very difficult one, and the opinions of some ob- servers are very different from some of the statements made above. Thus it has been maintained that the nuclei of the erythrocytes are not extruded in the formation of erythro- plastids, but undergo a degeneration within the original cell; J that mesenchyme cells of the marrow become transformed