DEVELOPMENT OF ARTERIES OF LIMBS. 265 arteries take part in the development of their blood-supply, but it seems that in both limbs the entire arterial system is'formed from a single lateral branch, that of the upper limb, the_subclavian, corresponding to the seventh cervical segment, while that of the lower limb, the common iliac, is probably the fifth lumbar branch. In the simplest arrange- ment the subclavian is continued as a single trunk along the axis of the anterior limb as far as the carpus, where it divides into digital branches for the fingers. In its course through the forearm it lies in the interval between the radius and ulna, resting on the interosseous membrane, and in this part of its course it may be termed the arteria interossea. In the second_stage a new artery accompajiying the median nerve appears, arising from the main stem or brachial artery a little below the elbow-joint. This may be termed the arteria mediana, and as it develops the arteria interossea gradually diminishes in size, becoming finally the small volar interosseous artery of the adult (Fig. 148), and the median, unifinp with its lower end, takes from it the digital branches and becomes the principal stem of the forearm. ^ third stage is then ushered in by the appearance of a branch from the median which forms the arteria ulnaris, and this, passing down the ulnar side of the forearm, unites at the wrist with the median to form a superficial palmar arch from which the digital branches arise. A fourth stage is marked by the diminution of the median artery until it finally appears to be a small branch^_f the interosseous, and at the same time there develops from the brachial, at about the middle of the upper arm, what is known as the arteria radialis superficialis (Fig. 148, rs). This extends down the radial side of the forearm, following the course oF the radialjierve, and at the wrist passes upon the dorsal surface of the hand to form^the dorsal digital arteries of the thumb and index finger. At first this artery takes no part in the 24