THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 446 with the typical spinal nerves, nor can they be regarded as rep- resenting twelve cranial segments. Indeed, it would seem that comparatively little information with regard to the number of myotomic segments which have fused together to form the head is to be derived from the cranial nerves, for while there are only four of these nerves which are associated with struc- tures equivalent to the mesodermic somites of the trunk, a much greater number of head cavities or mesodermic somites has been observed in the cranial region of the embryos of the lower vertebrates, Dohrn, for instance, having found nineteen and Killian eighteen in. the cranial region of Torpedo. Furth- ermore, it is not possible to say at present whether the branchi- omeres and their associated nerves correspond with one or several of the cranial mesodermic somites, or whether, indeed, any correspondence whatever exists. In early stages of development a series of constrictions have been observed in the cranial portion of the neural tube and have been regarded as indicating a primitive segmentation of that structure. The neuromeres, as the intervals between suc- cessive constrictions have been termed, seem to correspond with the cranial nerves as usually recognized and hence can- not be regarded as primitive segmental structures. They are more probably secondary and due to the arrangement of the neuroblasts corresponding to the various nerves. The Development of the Sympathetic Nervous Sys- tem.—From the embryological standpoint the distinction which has been generally recognized between the sympa- thetic and central nervous systems does not exist, the former having been found to be an outgrowth from the peripheral ganglia of the latter. This mode of origin has been observed with especial clearness in the embryos of some of the lower vertebrates, in which masses of cells have been seen to sepa- rate from the posterior root ganglia to form the ganglia of the ganglionated cord (Fig. 241). In the mammalia, in- cluding man, the relations of the two sets of ganglia to one another is by no means so apparent, since the sympathetic cells, instead of being separated from the posterior root ganglion en masse, migrate from it singly or in groups, and are therefore less readily distinguishable from the surround- ing mesodermal tissues.