215 THE CRANIAL MUSCULATURE. posed that their indistinctness in man is a secondary con- dition. Exactly how many of these somites are represented in the mammahan head it is impossible to say, but it seems probable, from comparison with lower forms, that there is a considerable number. The majority of them, however, early undergo degeneration, and in the adult condition only three are recognizable, two of which are praeoral in position and one postoral. The myotomes of the anterior praeoral segment give rise to the muscles of the eye supplied by the third cranial nerve, those of the posterior one furnish the superior oblique muscles innervated by the fourth nerve, while from the postoral myotomes the lateral recti, supplied by the sixth nerve, are developed. The muscles supplied by the hypoglossal nerve are also derived from myotomes, but they have already been considered in connection with the trunk musculature. The remaining muscles of the head differ from all other voluntary muscles of the body in the fact that they are derived from the branchiomeres formed by the segmentation of the cephalic ventral mesoderm. These muscles, there- fore, are not to be regarded as equivalent to the myotomic muscles if their embryological origin is to be taken as a criterion of equivalency, and in their case it would seem, from the fact that they are innervated by nerves funda- mentally distinct from those which supply the myotomic mucles, that this criterion is a good one. They must be regarded, therefore, as belonging to a special category, and may be termed hranchiomeric muscles to distinguish them from the myotomic set. If their embryological origin be taken as a basis for homology It IS clear that they should be regarded as equivalent to the muscles derived from the ventral mesoderm of the trunk, and these, as has been seen, are the non-striated muscles associated with the viscera, among which may be included the striated heart muscle. At first sight this homology seems decidedly