THE FORMATION OF THE HEART, 249 the two ventricles. This opening is finally,closed b_y what is termed the aortic sephim. This makes its appearance in the aortic biilb just at the point where the.first.lateral branches which give origin to the pulmonary arteries (see p. 256) arise, and is formedjpy; the fusion of the free edges of two ridges which develop on opposite sides of the bulb. From its point of origin it gradually extends down the bulb_uritil it reaches_the veiitricle, where it_^fuses with the free edge of the ventricular septiim and so completes the separation of the two ventricles (Fig. 135). The bulb now consists of two vessels lying side by side, and owing to the position of the partition at its anterior end, one of these vessels, that which opens into the ri^ht ventricle, is continuous with the pulmonary arteries, while the other, which opens into the left ventricle, i.s.continuous with the rest of the vessels which arise from the forward continuation of the bulb. As soon as the development of the partition is completed, two grooves, corresponding in position to the lines of attach- ment of the partition on the inside of the bulb, make their appearance on the outside and gradually deepen until they finally meet a,nd divide the bulb into two separate vessels, one of which is the pulmonary aorta and the other the sys- temic^orta. In the earlx stages of the heart's development the muscle bundles which compose the wall of the ventricle are very loosely arranged, so that the ventricle is a somewhat spongy mass of muscular tissue with a relatively small cavity. As development proceeds the bundles nearest the outer surface come closer together and form a compact layer, those on the inner surface, however, retaining their loose arrange- ment for a.Jonger time (Fig. 136). The joweT'edge of the^atrial canal becomes prolonged on the lefTside into one, and on.the_riglit side into two, flaps which project down- ward into the ventricular cavity, and an additional flap