3o8 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TONGUE. glossi. The last two muscles are innervated by the vagus nerve, and the remaining extrinsic muscles receive fibers from the hypoglossal, while the lingualis is supplied partly by the hypoglossal and partly, apparently, by the facial through the chorda tympani. That the facial should take part in the sup- ply is what might be expected from the mode of develop- ment of the tongue, but the hypoglossal has been seen to correspond to certain pri- marily postcranial metameres (p. 179), and its relation to structures taking part in the formation of an organ belong- ing to the anterior part of the pharynx seems somewhat anomalous. It may be sup- posed that in the evolution of the tongue the extrinsic mus- cles, together with a certain amount of the lingualis, have grown into the tongue thick- enings from regions situated much further back, for the most part from behind the last branchial arch. Such an invasion of the tongue by muscles from posterior segments would explain the distribution of its sensory nerves. The anterior portion, from its position, would naturally be sup- plied by branches from the fifth and seventh nerves, while the posterior portion might be expected to be supplied by the seventh. There seems, however, to have been a dislocation forward, if it may be so expressed, of the mucous membrane, the sensory distribution of the ninth nerve extending forward upon the posterior part of the anterior portion of the tongue, while a considerable amount of the posterior portion is supplied by the tenth nerve. The distribution of the sensory fibers of the facial is probably confined entirely to the anterior portion, though further information is needed to determine the exact distribution of both the motor and sensory fibers of this nerve in the tongue. The Development of the Salivary Glands.—In em- bryos of about 8 mm. a slight furrow_may be observed in the floor of the groove which connects the lip grooves of r Fig. 168.—The Floor of the Pharynx of an Embryo of ABOUT 20 MM epj Epiglottis; fc, foramen cserum; and f median and lateral por- tions of the tongue.— (His.)