57 FORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. Turning now to the mammalia, it will be found that these peculiarities become still more emphasized. The inner cell- mass of these forms corresponds to the blastoderm of the reptilian ovum, and the first differentiation which appears in it concerns the cells situated next the cavity of the vesicle, these_cdls differentiating t^ form a distinct layer which g-raduallyextends_so as to form a compkteJinjngL^^ inner surface of the enveloping cells, (Fig. 28, A). The layer so formed is endodermal and corresponds to the pri- mary endoderm of the reptiles. Before the extension of the endoderm is completed, how- ever, cavities begin to appear in the cells constituting the remainder of the inner mass, especially in those immediately beneath Rauber's cells (Fig. 28, B), and these cavities in time coalesce to form a single large cavity bounded above by cells of the enveloping layer and below by a thick plate of cells, the embryonic disk (Fig. 28, C). The cavity so formed is the amniotic cavity, whose further history will be considered in a subsequent chapter. It may be stated that this cavity varies greatly in its devel- opment in different mammals, being entirely absent in the rabbit at this stage of development and reaching an excessive development in such forms as the rat, mouse, and guinea-pig. The condition here described is that which occurs in the bat and the mole, and it seems probable, from what occurs in the youngest human embryos hitherto observed, that the processes in man are closely similar. While these changes have been taking place a splitting of the enveloping layer has occurred, so that the wall of the ovum is now formed of three layers, an outer one which may be termed the trophodcrni^ a middle one which prob- ably is transformed into the extra^eiTiljryonic mesoderm of later stages, though its significance is at present somewhat obscure, and an inner one which is the primary endoderm. In the bat, of whose ovum Fig. 28, C, represents a section,