THE YOLK-SAC. Ii8 the amnion remaining behind in the uterus, to be subse- quently expelled along with the deciduae. Occasionally it happens, however, that the amnion is suffi- ciently strong to withstand the pressure exerted upon it by the uterine contractions and the child is born still enveloped in the amnion, which, in such cases, is popularly known as the " caul," the possession of which, according to an old super- stition, marks the child as a favorite of fortune. As stated above, the liquor amnii varies considerably in amount in different cases, and occasionally it may be present in excessive quantities, producing a condition known as hydramnios. On the other hand, the amount may fall con- siderably below the normal, in which case the amnion may form abnormal unions with the embryo, sometimes producing malformations. Occasionally also bands of a fibrous char- acter traverse the amniotic cavity and, tightening upon the embryo during its growth, may produce various malformations, such as scars, splitting of the eyelids or lips, or even amputa- tion of a limb. The Yolk-sac.—The development of the yolk-sac in the human embryo, its differentiation into yolk-stalk and yolk- vesicle, and its enclosure within the umbilical cord have already been described. When these changes have been 'completed, the vesicle is a small pyriform structure lying between the amnion and the chorionic mesoderm, some dis- tance away from the extremity of the umbilical cord (Fig. 63, D), and the stalk is a long slender column of cells ex- tending from the vesicle through the umbilical cord to unite with the intestinal tract of the embryo. The vesicle persists until birth and may be found among the decidual tissues as a small sac measuring from 3 to 10 mm. in its longest diam- eter. The stalk, however, early undergoes degeneration, the lumen which it at first contains becoming obliterated and its endoderm also disappearing as early as the end of the second month of development. The portion of the stalk which extends from the umbilicus to the intestine usually shares in the degeneration and disappears, but in about 3