FORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. 6o behind the blastopore will correspond to the reptilian primi- tive streak. The later forward extension of the primitive streak is due to the mode of growth of the embryonic disk. Between the stages represented in Figs. 30 and 29, B, the disk has enlarged considerably and the primitive streak has shared in its elongation. Since the blastopore of the earlier stage is situated immediately in front of the anterior ex- tremity of the primitive streak, the point corresponding to it in the older disk is occupied by Hensen's node, this struc- ture, therefore, representing a proliferation of cells from the region formerly occupied by the blastopore. As regards the head process, it is at first a solid cord of cells which grows forward in the median line from Hansen's node, lying between the ectoderm and the primary endo- derm. Later a lumen appears in the center of the cord, forming what has been termed the chorda canal, and, in some forms, including man, the canal opens to the surface at the center of Hensen's node. The cord then fuses with the subjacent primary endoderm and then opens out along the line of fusion, becoming thus transformed into a flat plate of cells continuous at either side with the primary endoderm (Fig. 31, Chp). The portion of the chorda canal which traverses Hensen's node now opens below into what will be the primitive digestive tract and is termed the nctti en- teric canal (Fig. 32, nc) ; it eventually closes completely, being merely a transitory structure. The similarity of the head process to the invagination which in the reptilia forms the secondary endoderm seems clear, the only essential dif- ference being that in the mammalia the head process arises as a solid cord which subsequently becomes hollow, instead of as an actual invagination. The difference accounts for the occurrence of Hensen's node and also for the mode of formation of the neurenteric canal, and cannot be considered as of great moment since the development of what are