267 DEVELOPMENT OF ARTERIES OF LIMBS. Upper portion of that artery degenerates untiljt is repre- sented onjy by a branch to the biceps muscle (Schwalbe), while the lower portion persists as the adult radial. The various anomalies seen in the arteries of the forearm are, as a rule, due to the more or less complete persistence of one or other of the stages described above, what is described, for instance, as the high branching of the brachial being the persistence of the superficial radial. In the kg;^there is a noticeable difference in the arrange- ment of the arteries from what occurs in the arm, in that the principal artery of the thigh, the femoral, does not accompany the principal nerve, the sciatic. This difference is apparently secondary, but, as in the case of the upper limb, it is necessary to rely largely on the facts of com- parative anatomy and on anomalies which occur in the human body for an idea of the probable development of the arteries of the lower limb. It has already been;seen that the cunimon iliac artery is to be regarded as a lateral branch of the dorsal aorta, and in the simplest condition of the limb arteries rts^coiitinuation, the anterior division of the hypo- gastric, passes down the leg as a well-developed sciatic artery as far as the ankle (Fig. 149, s). At the knee it occupies the position of the popliteal of adult anatomy, and below the knee gives off a branch con-esponding to the ante- rior tibial (at) which, passing fqi-ward to the extensor sur- ^^^^.pX.the leg, quickly loses itseli^ijij;h extensor muscles. The main artery continues clownward on the interosseous membrane, and some distance above the ankle divides into., a strong anterior and a weaker posterior branch; the fornier perforates_.tlie. membrane and is CQiitiiiued down the exten- sor surface of the leg to form the lower part of the anterior tibial and the dorsalis pedis arteries, while the latter, pass- ing upon the plantar surface of the foot, is lOst in the plantar muscles. At this stage the external iliac is a secondary