390 THE DESCENT OF THE TESTES. and tlie upper part of each vas deferens, together with the spermatic vessels and nerves, are drawn down into the scrotum, and the mesenterial fold jn which they were origi- nally contained and whichjs comparable to the broad liga- ment of the female, also practically disappears, becoming converted into, a sheath of connective tissue which encloTes the vas_ deferens and the vessels and nerves, binding them together into what is termed the spermatic cord. The mes- orchium^ which united the testis to the peritoneum enclos- ing the Wolffian body, does not share in the degeneration of the latter, but p_ei-sisjs as a fold extending between the epididymis and the testis and forrning the sinus epididymis. In the text-books of anatomy the spermatic cord is usually described as lying in an inguinal canal which traverses the abdominal walls obliquely immediately above Poupart's liga- ment. So long as the lumen of the neck portion of the vaginal process of peritoneum remains patent there is such a canal, placing the cavity of the tunica vaginalis in communication with the general peritoneal cavity, but the cord does not trav- erse this canal, but lies outside it in the retroperitoneal con- nective tissue. When, however, the neck of the vaginal proc- ess disappears, a canal no longer exists, although the connective tissue which surrounds the spermatic cord and unites it with the tissues of the abdominal walls is less dense than the neigh- boring tissues, so that the cord may readily be separated from these and thus appear to lie in a canal. LITERATURE. B. M. Allen : " The Embryonic Development of the Ovary and Testes in Mammals," Amcr. Jouni. of Anat., in, 1904. W. Felix : " Entwickelungsgeschichte des Exkretions-systems," Ergebn. dcr Anat. und Entzvicklungsgcsch., xiii, 1903. A. Fleischmann: " Morphologische Studien iiber Kloake und Phallus der Amnioten," Morphol. Jahrhuch, xxx, xxxii und xxxvi, 1902- 1904, 1907. . O. Frankl : " Beitrage zur Lehre vom Descensus testiculorum," Sitz- iingsbcr. dcr kais. Akad. Wisscnsch. Wicn, Math.-Naturzviss. Classe, cix, 1900. S. P. Gage : " A Three Weeks Human Embryo, with especial reference to the Brain and the Nephric System," Amer. Journ. of, Anat., IV, 1905.