DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. Throughout the entire period of fetal Hfe the foramen ovale persists, perniitting the blood returning from the placenta and entering the right atrium to pass directly across the left atrium, thence to the left ventricle, and so oi^t^to the body through the systemic aorta (see p. 284). At birth the lungs begin to function and the placental cir- culation is cut off, so that the ,right atrium receives only venous blood and the left only arterial; a persistence of the foramen ovale beyond this period would be injurious, since it would permit of a mixture of the arterial and venous bloods, and, consequently, it closes completely soon after birth. The closure is made possible by the fact that during the growth of the heart in size the portion of the atrial septum which is between the edge of the foramen ovale and the dorsal wall of the atrium increases in width, so that the foramen is carried further and further away from the dorsal wall of the atrium and comes to be almost com- pletely overlapped by the annulus of Vieussens (Fig. 133). This process continuing, the dorsal portion of the atrial septum finally overlaps the free edge of the annulus, and after birth the fusion of the overlapping surfaces takes place and the foramen is completely closed. In a large percentage (25 to 30 per cent.) of individuals the fusion of the surfaces of the septum and annulus is not com- plete, so that a slit-like opening persists between the two atria. This, however, does not allow of any mingling of the blood in the two cavities, since when the atria contract the pressure of the blood on both sides will force the overlapping folds to- gether and so practically close the opening. Occasionally the growth of the dorsal portion of the septum is imperfect or is inhibited, in which case closure of the foramen ovale is Im- possible. The Development of the Arterial System.—It has been seen that the formation of the blood-vessels begins in the extra-embryonic splanchnic mesoderm surrounding the yolk- sac and extends thence toward the embryo. The two orig-