DEVELOPMENT OF THE STERNUM. give rise to plate-like epiphyses on each side, the upper plates forming the articular surface of the ilium. At about the twenty-fifth year all the sacral vertebrae unite to form a single bone, and a similar fusion occurs also in the rudi- mentary vertebrae of the coccyx. The majority of the anomalies seen in the vertebral column are due to the imperfect development of one or more cartilages or of the centers of ossification. Thus, a failure of an arch to unite with the body or even the complete absence of an arch or half an arch may occur, and in cases of spina bifida the two halves of the arches fail to unite dorsally. Occasionally the two parts of the double cartilaginous center for the body fail to unite, a double body resulting; or one of the two parts may entirely fail, the result being the formation of only one- half of the body of the vertebra. Other anomalies result from the excessive development of parts. Thus, the rib of the seventh cervical vertebra may sometimes remain distinct and be long enough to reach the sternum, and the first lumbar rib may also fail to unite with its vertebra. On the other hand, the first thoracic rib is occasionally found to be imperfect. The Development of the Sternum.—Longitudinal bars, which are formed by the fusion of the ventral ends of the anterior eight or nine cartilaginous thoracic ribs, represent the future sternum. At an early period the two bars come into contact anteriorly and fuse together (Fig. 98), and at this anterior end two usually indistinctly separated masses of cartilage are to be observed at the vicinity of the points where the ventral ends of the cartilaginous clavicles articu- late! These are the cpisternal cartilages {em), which jater normally unite with__the Jongitudinal bars and form part of the manubrium stenii, though occasionally they persist and fissify to form the ossa suprasternalia. The fusion of the longitudinal bars gradualiy extends^backward imiiX a single elongated ]date of cartilage results, with which the seven anterior ribs are united, one ()r two of the more pos- terior ribs which originally took part in the formation of each bar having separaFed. The portions of the bars