474 THE MIDDLE EAR. and results in the f. >niiali()n in the mastoid porti(jn of the -t-^^^ so-called mastoid cells, which communicate with ^^tZ^'^'^P^^^^c cavity and ha\ c an cpitheUal hning continuous with that of the cavity. The lower__poilion .of.Jhe diverticulum from the first pharyngeal groove which gives rise to the tympanic cavity becomes converted into the Eustachian tube. During devel- opment the lumen of the tube disappears for a time, prob- ably owing to a proliferation of its lining epithelium, but it is re-established before birth. In the account of the development of the ear-bones given above it is held that the malleus and incus are derivatives of the first branchial (mandibular) arch and the stapes probably of the second. This view represents the general consensus of recent workers on the difficult question of the origin of these bones, but it should be mentioned that nearly all possible modes of origin have been at one time or other suggested. The mal- leus has very generally been accepted as coming from the first arch, and the same is true of the incus, although some earlier authors have assigned it to the second arch. But with regard to the stapes the opinions have been very varied. It has been held to be derived from the first arch, from the second arch, from neither one nor the other, but from the cartilaginous in- vestment of the otocyst, or, finally, it has been held to have a compound origin, its arch being a product of the second arch while its basal plate was a part of the otocyst investment. The Development of the Tympanic Membrane and of the Outer Ear.—Just as the tympanic cavity is formed from the endodermal groove of the first branchial cleft, so the outer ear owes its origin to the ectodermal groove of_th^ same cTeft and to the neighboring arches. The dorsal and most ventral portions of the groove flatten out and disappear, but the median portion deepens to form, at about the end of the second month, a funnel-shaped cavity which corre- sponds to the outer portion of the external auditory meatus. From the inner end of this a solid ingrowth of ectoderm takes place, and this, enlarging at its inner end to form a