THE EXTERNAL GENITALIA. 386 enchyme becomes transformed into a mass of adipose and ^brous tissue and they become converted into the labia majora, the interval between them con'stiUitln^the w</z;a. In the_male the early stages of development are closely similar to those of the female; indeed, it has been well said that the external genitals of the adult female resemble those of the fetal male. In early stages the genital tubercle elon- g;ates to form the penis and the in|egiiment which covers the proximal part of it grows forward as a fokl which encloses the bulbous enlargement or glans and forms the prepuce, whose epithelium fuses with that covering the glans and only separates from it later by a cornification of the cells along the plane of fusion. The genital folds meet together and fusCj converting the vestibule and the groove upon the vestibular surface of the penis into the terminal portion of the male urethra and bringing it about that the^vasa defer- entia and the uterus masculinus open upon the floor of that passage. The two genital swellings are at the same time brought closer together, so as to lie between the base of the penis and the perineal body and, eventually, they_^form the scrotum. The mesenchyme of which they were pri- marily composed differentiates into the same layers as aa'e found in the wall of the abdomen and a peritoneal pouch is prolonged into them from the abdomen, so that they form sacs into which the testes descend toward the close of fetal Hfe (p. 388). The homologies of the portions of the reproductive appa- ratus derived from the cloaca and of the external genitalia in the two sexes may be perceived from the following table. Numerous anomalies, depending upon an inhibition or ex- cess of the development of the parts, may occur in connection with the external genitalia. Should, for instance, the lips of the groove on the vestibular surface of the penis fail to fuse, the penial portion of the urethra remains incomplete, consti- tuting a condition known as hypospadias, a condition which