186 OSSIFICATION OF THE CIIONDROCRANIUM. When first formed, the ectethmoids are masses of spongy bone and show no indication of the honeycombed appear- ance which they present in the adult skull. This condition is produced by the absorption of the bone of each mass by evaginations into it of the mucous membrane lining the nasal cavity. This same process also brings about the formation of the curved plates of bone which project from the inner surfaces of the lateral masses and are known as the superior and middle conchae (turbinated bones). The inferior and sphenoidal conchse are developed from special centers, but belong to the same category as the others, being formed from portions of the lateral ethmoidal cartilages which be- come almost separated at an early stage before the ossifica- tion has made much progress. Absorption of the body of the sphenoid bone to form the sphenoidal cells, of the frontal to form the frontal sinuses, and of the maxillaries to form the maxillary sinuses is also produced by outgrowths of the nasal mucous membrane, all these cavities, as well as the ethmoidal cells, being continuous with the nasal cavities and lined with an epithelium which is continuous with the mucous membrane of the nose. In the lower mammalia the erosion of the mesial surface of the ectethmoidal cartilages results, as a rule, in the forma- tion of five conchse, while in man but three are usually recog- nized. Not infrequently, however, the human middle concha shows indications, more or less marked, of a division into an upper and a lower portion, which correspond to the third and fourth bones of the typical mammalian arrangement. Further- more, at the upper portion of the nasal wall, in front of the superior concha, a slight elevation, termed the agger nasi, is always observable, its lower edge being prolonged downward to form what is termed the uncinate process of the ethmoid. This process and the agger together represent the uppermost concha of the typical arrangement, to which, therefore, the human arrangement may be reduced. A number of centers of ossification—the exact number is yet uncertain—appear in the periotic capsule during the