56 ration is felt in the course of the femoral vein. Pulse 120, soft, and rather smaller ; vomited little since 5 a. m ; matter eject- ed during the night more feculent ; bowels not opened; tongue furred ; thirst great. It was agreed to apply the electro-magnetic aura to the abdomen, which was done by Dr Ilandyside. Im- mediately after, she vomited about a pint of thickish brown-yellow matter of feculent odour. Pills and injections have been given as directed ; fomentations continued. To continue the pills every four hours. Flannel roller to be applied to abdomen. Sugar of lead solution, with opium, to left lower extremity to be applied hot. 5 p. m. Has taken two pills since last report. Vomited occa- sionally, the matter being stercoraceous ; leg less painful and less tense ; no pain in abdomen, except on sudden and deep pres- sure ; pulse 140 ; tongue slightly furred ; thirst diminished. Has taken at various times a little coffee, milk, and biscuit, which, however, for the most part were vomited. To continue pills. An injection at 9- 10^ p. m. Pulse 140, small, and soft. Has vomited three times since last report; matter vomited small ; less feculent ; abdomen softer and less swollen ; no pain except on con- siderable pressure ; no stool ; flannel roller has been applied since 5 p. m. ; countenance anxious ; cheeks somewhat flushed. An injection immediately, to be repeated at 4 a. m. One pill now, and another at 5 a. m. 5th, 8 a. M. Has passed a quiet night, having slept a good deal. Has taken two pills and two injections, the latter having been returned without feculent matter. At 12 m. had a little wine, as she felt faint. At 3 a. m. took a small cup of coffee and a portion of rice biscuit, which were retained ; no vomiting since 10 last night ; pulse varies from 126 to 135, easily excit- able, small, and soft ; tongue furred ; still thirsty, but less so since 3 a. m. ; pain of limb less ; abdomen less distended and bears pressure better. R Calomel, gr. iij. ; Opii gr. ss. Ft. pil. 1 quartis horis. An injection some time during the day. A desert spoonful of wine every four hours. Fomentations to limb to be continued. 10 p. m. Vomited a little about 10 a. m. ; again at 4 p. m. Matter not feculent. Has taken from time to time a little coffee, with bread. Wine taken returns, and apparently produces “ heart- burn.” Has had two pills since morning. No complaint of pain. Is generally in a drowsy state, but easily roused. Upper, ante- rior, and lateral part of thigh more swollen. There is also a deep redness over a portion of the skin. Discharge from wound rather increased. She is thinner, and when she lies on the left side, matter from the wound flows over the left groin, occasioning ery- thematous redness. Had an injection of warm water at 3 p. M.,