10 of a pyriform shape ; the base extended downwards to the clavicles, filling up the jugular fossa, and the apex reached upwards to above the thyroid cartilage. Pulsation was communicated to the tumour, on each side, from the impulse of the carotid arteries, over which it lay ; and, in addition, a gentle pulsatory thrill was perceptible in the tumour itself. The patient’s neck appeared to be peculiarly long, and his tone of voice was higher and more shrill than natural. Previous history.—Until two years ago, he states, that he was free from any swelling of the neck. At that time, however, being 16 years of age, he began to work as a farm-servant, and simulta- neously with this, the swelling arose. It has gradually increased ever since, and of late has afforded him considerable uneasiness. He is a native of Carlisle, and states that he has been employed on a low marshy farm. In all other respects his health was good when he came to the Infirmary, and he expressed extreme anxiety to get rid of the dis- ease.—lie was ordered to take ten drops of the tincture of iodine internally, three times a-day ;—and an ointment consisting of hy- driodate of potass and camphor, of each 5ss, and of the unguentum hydragyri, and the unguentum simplicis, of each 3ss, was ordered to he applied twice a-clay over the tumour. May 9. Since last report, the above treatment has been continued. To-day, for the first time, there is considerable irritation of the in- teguments over the tumour, which is found by admeasurement rather to have increased in size. His system appears now to be affected by the mercury, which has been used externally only, and without much friction. The gums are tender, there is increased salivary flow, and the salivary glands are enlarged and painful. The bowels are open, the tongue is red, the skin hot and dry, the pulse is small, and he is in an anxious and excited condition. The inter- nal use of the iodine, and the application of the ointment to be dis- continued. Let him take night and morning the following medi- cine :—R. Pulveris Jacobi veri gr. iss.; pulveris Doveri gr. iij. M. Fiat pmlvis. 7 P.M. He has now had a severe and sudden attack of dyspnoea, which lasted some time. From this he was much relieved by his assuming the semi-erect posture, and by the inhalation of steam. 9 P.M. He has now had another attack of dyspnoea, but of a more severe and lasting nature. He complained of pain, and of a sense of constriction of the glottis. The epiglottis was felt to be erect and somewhat tumid, and he expectorated what was said to resemble thickened mucus. The attack of dyspnoea had been so severe, that it was deemed advisable by the resident clerk. (Mr J. W. Reid,) to propose tracheotomy, but to this the patient would not submit, as the urgency of the symptoms had at the time decreased. 11th May, 4 a.m. During the night he has had several severe at- tacks of dyspnoea, the last of which was so severe and protracted.