53 Oct. 20th. 2 p. m. Since last report there has been a marked im- provement in all the symptoms. The blister rose well, and the cough and respiration have been easier. Mixture was not given. About one ounce of pus is discharged at each dressing. She has been eating animal food with appetite, and sitting up for an hour and a half daily. Last night she complained of severe tormina, increased on going to stool, and took one of the gallic acid and hyoscyamus pills. To-day the pain is still present occasionally. No tenderness on pressing abdomen. Bowels open three times last night and this morning. Blister nearly well. To have a gallic acid and opium pill. 21st. 2 p. m. Has been taking vinegar and water three times a day for a few days.* With the exception of occasional tormina, doing well. Omit vinegar and water. 27th. Has had no tormina, and has been doing well since last report. To-day she was removed to another lodging in a car- riage, under the care of Mr Crabbe, and bore the journey remark- ably well. 28th,| 9 a.m. Expression of countenance much improved. Pass- ed a tolerable night ; had slight cough during the night, with no expectoration ; chest examined with great care ; respiration audible over the whole of the back, but more obscure on the right side inferiorly than on the left. Under tire inferior angle of left scapula, over a space about the size of the palm of the hand, there was a distinct crepitating rale, loudest with inspiration. The vocal resonance here is also increased in intensity, but less so than formerly ; and there is marked dulness on percussion. Anterior- ly, bronchial respiration diminished. The inspiratory murmur is unusually harsh, but there are no anormal rales. Pulse 114 ; in other respects well. The wound discharges freely. 29th, 11 a.m. Passed a good night; discharge from wound slight; pulse 108; bowels open twice since yesterday. Ab- sence of respiration over right back inferiorly, as high as lower angle of scapula; vocal resonance not increased ; crepitating rale in left back diminished ; little cough, very scanty expectoration. ยง> Pulv. Digit, gr. i.; Sulph Quinines, gr. iss. M. Ft. pil. Sumat ii. in die. Applied. Emp. Lyttce lateri sinis- tro 2ยฃ p. m. 30th, 11 a. m. Night somewhat restless, having experienced griping pains in the abdomen ; bowels open at 9 this morning, since which the pains have diminished ; tongue clean ; blister was applied yesterday, but did not rise well ; has no cough or expectoration ; takes a breath without difficulty ; respirations 36 in the minute. On sitting up, matter flows freely from wound. This had been given probably with the best intentions, but without the know- ledge of the medical attendants, by a pupil who was assisting at the dressings. f From this period the case was treated in consultation by Drs Alison, Spittal, Bennett, and by Mr Crabbe, whose attention throughout the case was most assiduous. n