36 the stump and the soft padding of the boot. By the latter method, also, there is no danger of sloughing of any part of the stump, as the posterior tibial artery is not divided, so as to cut off the prin- cipal vascular supply, but only its divisions into the two plantar arteries; whereas, by the former method, the trunk of the poste- rior tibial artery may be divided, and thus give rise to the serious consequence of at least partial sloughing of the posterior flap,—as happened in two cases related by Mr Syme,1 —the vessel having been divided accidentally in the one case, and intentionally in the other. The operation can be much more easily and rapidly performed by the method of antero-lateral flaps, as the dissection of the os calcis from the soft parts of the heel is thus much more easily ef- fected;—the great bruising and twisting of the soft parts which occurs in the other method of disarticulation is thus happily avoid- ed, and primary union is thus more likely to take place. The ope- ration could, if necessary, be still farther facilitated also by incis- ing the pad of the heel backwards from the point where the two antero-lateral incisions meet. This would not interfere much with the subsequent usefulness of the stump. In the method by antero-lateral flaps, moreover, should union by the first intention not be complete, the matter is allowed to drain off freely from the lower commissure of the flaps, so as to render quite unnecessary the establishment of an opening through the integument of the heel,—the formation of which is recommend- ed by Mr Syme,2 in the method by antero-posterior flaps,—if, in- deed, it has not been formed accidentally or unavoidably3 during the tedious and difficult dissection which is required to separate the os calcis from its attachments. In removing the malleoli, it is better to employ the saw than the cutting pliers; as, along with these points of bone, a thin slice of the lower end of the tibia ought always, in my opinion, to be removed. When the articular extremity of the tibia is diseased, this evidently must be done,—the surgeon then has no choice;4 but even when the cartilage of the tibia is sound, as in Case 4, I would advise its removal, as it will accelerato the healing process, more especially if union by the first intention should fail. 1 See Monthly Journal for August 1844. 3 Ibid for April 1843. 3 Ibid. 4 See Ibid, for a case by Mr Syme, the first in which he seems to have removed part of the lower end of the tibia. Edinburgh, 45 York Place, 1st October 1845. ( To be conli.iued.)