51 fuller. A thin purulent discharge squeezed from the wound. No tenderness of abdomen. To have one of the following pills every eight hours :— R. Palo. Opii gr. i.; Pulv. Plumb. Acet. gr. ij.; Pulv. Ipecac, gr. ss. Ft. pil. Continue wine. 6th, 2 p. m. Has taken three lead and opium pills, which have checked the diarrhoea. Tongue clean; pulse 140, weak; morn- ing perspirations. Omit pills. 9 p. m. Bowels have not been opened since taking the pills. Pain in the seat of ligature always induced on coughing. Pres- sure in the left iliac region causes pus to exude plentifully. Edge of the opening is somewhat wider, and the skin surrounding it is the seat of an erythematous blush, over a space the size of half a crown. Poultice to the wound. Continue wine. Meat soups, and nutritious diet. 7th, 2 p. m. Discharge from the wound this morning amounted to about two ounces. Pulse 140, soft; appetite improved; re- spiration hurried and thoracic. 9 p. M. On placing the trunk in a semi-erect posture pus flows freely from the wound without pressure. Pulse 130, very soft; feels weaker; bowels have been open three times during the day; stools natural, but soft. Skin covered with a damp sweat. Increase the wine to a tablespoonful every two hours. Repeat the Pil. Opii c. Plumb. 8th, 12 a. m. Bowels open once last night, and twice this morning. There is still cough, which is now followed by a tough expectoration. Occasional mucous rales are heard on inspiration over the posterior surface of chest. The inspiratory murmur, how- ever, is generally harsh and dry; the expiration prolonged. Pulse 128, of greater strength. Discharge from wound less copious. 9th, 9 P. m. Since last report has been much the same. Dis- charge from wound this evening copious and thicker, mixed with small portions of slough. 10th, 2 P. m. On tightening the ligature, which is still firmly at- tached, about three ounces of thick greenish offensive pus flowed from the opening. On examining chest, a crepitating rale is heard for the first time about the middle third of left back, and inferiorly, sonorous rale, both with inspiration and expiration. Over the right back the respiratory murmurs are generally harsh, with increased vocal resonance, but no rale. Sputa are tenacious and slightly tinged of a rusty colour. To lie on the face as much as possible. To take a tablespoonful every four or five hours of the following mixture :— %>• Mucilag. f}\.; Syr. Simp. Vin. Ipecac., aa. gss.; Sol. Mur. Morph. 7/\j.; Aq. font. M. 9 p. m. The report of this evening visit is in the words of Dr Struthers. Dr Bennett was not present. “ For the last three