60 Be Ext. CoJocyntli. i.; Scammon. gr. ij.; Ex. Hyoscyam. gr. i.; Pil. Opii gr. ss.; Bismuth, gr. iij. Ft. pit. ij. 'l’o be taken in four hours if the bowels are not opened. Fo- mentations and warm water injection. 7 i*. m. Has slept occasionally during the day. Still continual vomiting of ingesta ; has taken pills ; no motion ; abdominal pain and griping less severe; injection would not pass; pulse 126, weak ; is very restless ; hands and feet cold ; countenance sunk ; dark areola round the eyes. To have large warm water injection. B Fulv. Opii gr. i.; Bismuth, gr. vj.; in pil. ij. The warm water injection was given easily about 9, and was retained several minutes. When returned it brought away only one piece of feculent matter the size of a bean. Vomiting com- menced shortly after. The coldness of extremities now increas- ed. She complained of want of breath, tinnitus aurium, and fre- quently turned from side to side. Hot bottles were applied to the hands and feet, and they were also rubbed assiduously with warm flannels. Wine given freely, but was always vomited. Pulse small, weak, and thready. The pills were vomited. About 11 p. m. the restlessness was somewhat abated, and she expressed a desire to go to sleep. After lying some time, she requested the nurse to raise her up. This was done, when she fell back and ex- pired, without a groan or struggle, at ten minutes after 12 o’clock, —the 70th day after the operation. Examination of the body, November 14th, 4 p. m. Present, Drs Alison, Simpson, Spittal, Cowan, A. D. Campbell, Handy- side, Bennett, and Mr Crabbe. The body was greatly emaciated. The head was not opened. Chest The cavity of the pleura on the left side contained about one ounce and on the right about two ounces of serum. On the left side the pleurae were adherent so strongly, that the lung was lacerated in removing it: this more especially between the inferior surface of the lung and upper surface of the diaphragm. On the right side the pleurm were adherent at the apex, and over inferior lobe, but the adhesions were easily torn through. The anterior margin of the upper lobe of the left lung was em- physematous ; its posterior portion slightly engorged. On section it crepitated readily, and was healthy in structure. The inferior lobe felt dense externally, and on section the parenchyma was of a brownish red colour ; splenified ; easily breaking down under the finger, and portions of it placed in water sunk nearly to the bottom of the vessel. The two upper lobes of the right lung very emphysematous anteriorly, engorged posteriorly and inferiorly> but