52 days the ligature lias been pulled regularly at each dressing, with the view of at least accelerating its separation, but it has always firmly resisted the attempts at extraction. To-night, however, it suddenly yielded, when it was being firmly and steadily pulled at. The patient cried out that some one had struck her a severe blow on the belly, and she experienced considerable pain for a short time afterwards. The ligature was then entirely removed, having the same appearance as to loops and ends as the last one. No slough came with or after the ligature, but in the pus which pre- ceded it were seen numerous flakes of dead tissue. Not a drop of blood followed the extraction of the ligature, neither was the latter itself tinged with it. Considerable pressure was made by pads over the iliac fossa and the umbilical region, so as to direct the pus towards the external opening. A little more force was used to bring away the ligature than is usually had recourse to in surgical practice ; but it was thought to be very desirable that the ligature should come away, as the great discharge and irritation to which its presence apparently gave rise were evidently reducing the strength of the patient.” This is the thirty-sixth day from the operation. 11th. 2 p. m. Amount of discharge from wound increas- ed, amounting this morning to four ounces, of foetid odour, mixed with shreds. Pulse 130, fuller; tongue clean; appetite improved; thirst less; bowels open once. Wine to be dimi- nished to two drachms every two hours ; omit lead and opium pills. Ik Opii gr. i.; Acid. Gallici gr. ij. Ft. pil. One to be taken every eight hours. Ik Acid. Sulph. Dil. 3ij.; Tr. Digit. Jiij.; Sol. Mur. Morph. 3ij.; Aq.font. §xvj. A tablespoonful every three hours. 12th. 2 p. m. No material change. Bowels open once. 13th. 2 p. m. Cough has been very troublesome this morn- ing ; respirations still rapid and thoracic; expectoration tena- cious, and slightly tinged with blood of a rusty colour. In right side of chest posteriorly, a distinct crepitating rale may be heard with the inspiration, and short sonorous rales with the ex- piration. Skin hot; pulse 140 ; tongue clean ; bowels open once. Says that she is constantly hungry. 14th. 2 p. m. Much the same. No blood in sputa. 15th. 9 p.m. Less cough ; pulse 120 ; bowels open twice; respiration still frequent and catching ; no dulness on percussion could be determined. On left back, near spinal column in the middle third of chest, there is a space about the size of the hand, where both respiratory murmurs are harsh and exaggerated, with the vocal resonance of a shrill character. Crepitating rale has disappeared. A blister to be applied to the left side early in the morning.