49 clean. Had two ounces of steak allowed for dinner to-day, with beef-tea and toast. 23d, 9 p. m. Had an opiate last night, after which she slept well. Has been restless during the day, with want of appetite ; pulse 120 ; discharge free. About three and a-half ounces of pus escaped at the dressing. The pus escapes more freely when she is raised in bed, and when slight traction is made on the ligatures. Coimh continues ; no expectoration ; no rales audible in chest. 24th, 9 v. M. Slept well last night after the usual opiate. Had two ounces of minced collops for dinner. Appetite rather im- proved ; bowels open ; pulse 120, and sharp. To have 15 drops of the black drop, with one drachm of the Aq. Acet. Ammon. 25th, 9 p. m. Slept well last night. Had dinner to-day as yester- day. To have a little porter. Draught to be repeated to-night. 26th, 9 p. m. Feels better to-day; pulse 13 6; tongue clean ; respirations 32, and thoracic ; appetite improved ; bowels open thrice during the day. 27th, 9 p. M. Had her opiate last night, and slept well. Has been troubled a good deal with eructation. She is now able to sit up in bed during her meals, and to read in bed. 28th, 9 p. m. Slept well after the draught last night. Eructa- tions removed by a dose of the hydrocyanic acid. Bowels open twice during the day, and with tormina. For this she had 20 drops of the Sol. Mur. Morph, in half a glass of wine, made into negus. She sat up in a chair to-day and read for some time. The cough is now attended with slight mucous expectoration, but there is no pain of chest. Discharge less to-day. To have a grain of opium with three grains of James’ powder, and to have no more malt liquor at present. 29th, 9 p. m. Slept well last night, but has been troubled a good deal with cough during the day. There is a scanty expectoration of clear, and sometimes of tough greyish-yellow tenacious mucus. She complains of soreness of the throat, extending down the larynx and trachea, but the fauces seem natural. On examination of the chest, the respiratory sound is normal, but loud anteriorly, and es- pecially in the upper parts of the chest. In the lateral regions it is less distinct; and posteriorly, especially in the lower parts, very feebly heard, and it is there almost inaudible during expiration. There are a few sonorous rales in the anterior part of the right axilla, on a line with the nipple, during inspiration. Pulse 112. To have a grain of opium. 30th, 9 p. m. Feels easy ; appetite improved ; still some cough ; pulse 120. To have 20 drops of the black drop, with a drachm of the Aq. Acet. Ammon. October 1st, 9 p. m. Slept well last night; bowels open ; pulse 130. To have an opiate. 2d, 9 p. m. She feels weaker, and has less appetite to-day ; but