8 of the flaps, at the latter of which places a sloughing sore formerly existed. Most of the stitches were removed, and straps substituted. Subsequently to this date, the case progressed favourably and without any thing remarkable occurring,—the ligatures came away in due time, the discharge ceased, and the stump became solid. The patient had a slight attack of bronchitis, which was completely removed by a blister, and on the 8th of September he was dismissed in good bodily health, with the stump solid and fleshy, and afford- ing an ample and useful covering for the bone. State of the diseased parts.—On opening the knee-joint, the syno- vial membrane generally, was found thickened and increased in vascularity. The articular cartilage, particularly over the condyles, was thickened, and appeared also to be vascular; while on the cen- tre of the external condyle, a deep irregular ulcer was found pene- trating through the cartilage to the bone, and communicating with the recently cicatrized external opening from which the matter had formerly flowed. The fracture was found to be nearly transverse, and about two inches above the condyles. The lower portion of the os femoris was partly overlapped by the upper, and the now empty cavity of a large abscess intervened. Both ends of the fractured bone were necrosed,—the upper end for about two inches in length, including the whole circumference of the os femoris,—and the lower end to a less extent. No new bone existed at these extremities, but began to show itself at about two inches from the end of each por- tion. Over the lower portion it extended as far down as the epi- physis, but not over it, and the upper portion was covered by a thick crust of new bone, for about three inches. The usual lines of separation could not yet be recognised. Lymph was found plenti- fully effused into the tissues surrounding the new bone. Remarks.—This case is more particularly interesting, as showing how a case of Necrosis of comparatively limited extent may require amputation of the member, from the peculiar circumstances which may accompany the disease. The violent synovitis, resulting from the injury of the joint, and running on, notwithstanding the most active antiphlogistic mea- sures of which the case would permit, to suppuration, and latterly to ulceration of the articular cartilages, and surface of the bone,— combined with the profuse discharges early occurring from the seat of the fracture, could scarcely have failed to oppose, or at least to retard, the sanatory process of union of the fracture; but the possibility of this was effectually pi-evented, by the inflamed and subsequently necrosed condition of the fractured extremities of the bone. That necrosis, however, had actually taken place, was proclaimed by the sequestrum showing itself on the surface; and then the character, and consequently the treatment of the case, changed from one of disunited and complicated fracture, to one of Necrosis, complicated with deformity and disease of an important neighbouring articulation.