the necrosed shaft, and that, though the thigh was greatly bent and distorted, from the giving way of the substitute, still such had not been the case for so long a period, as to preclude the possibility of rebending it, and afterwards modelling the bone anew. The pa- tient’s health also was not yet so far reduced as to render her unable to bear up against the subsequent calls on the resources of the sys- tem ;—her time of life also was in her favour, and there was the probability that the hectic, instead of increasing, would cease, as soon as the sequestrum should be removed. This line of practice was therefore followed, and it is fully borne out by the result of the case. After the removal of the sequestrum at nature’s line of separa- tion, the bending of the substitute,—the most interesting feature of the case,—was safely accomplished, and without the employment of much force. The old and new bones were thus brought nearly into a line with each other. The subsequent progress of the case is likewise interesting, the indications being—to restore still more the symmetry of the thigh, by moderate and continued extension,—to restore the functions of the hip and knee joints by passive motion,—to support the system by nourishing food, wine, and tonics,—to evacuate, by timeous in- cisions, the collections of matter which formed from time to time,— and, lastly, by gentle and increasing exercise, to restore gradually the use of the limb. This case, then, affords another example in corroboration of the propriety of the modern practice of removing large sequestra instead of the whole limb ;—and it farther shows that a case may not be irremediable, as regards the healthy functions of the limb, although from the giving way of the substitute bone, the greatest deformity may for a time have existed. Case 2. Complicated Fracture of the Os Femoris followed by Ne- crosis, vnth Protrusion :—Recovery after Amputation. Andrew Finlayson, aged 18, farm servant, was admitted into the Royal Intirmarv, under Dr Handyside, late in the evening of April 19, 1844, having, whilst intoxicated, been knocked over by a cart, the wheel of which had passed over, and injured the right thigh and knee-joint. On examination, the right knee and the lower third of the tlii^h were found much swollen and discoloured. A nearly transverse fracture of the os femoris was easily recognised, a few inches above the condyles, there being great displacement, and great deformity. No fracture through the condyles or into the knee-joint could be discovered. The latter, however, was immensely swollen, and the seat of severe burning heat, and much pain. Two contused and