,38 At present, July 6tli, site complains of pain in the head, which is stated to be dull and heavy, and seated principally over the forehead. It comes on occasionally, and lasts for three or four days at a time. She has pain in the loins very frequently, espe- cially when the dropsy is large. Special senses and common sen- sibility normal. Her sleep is much disturbed by breathlessness, and by the semi-erect posture the dropsy requires. Motion is impeded by the size of the abdomen, and from its great weight. There is much muscular weakness. The abdomen measures 48^ inches at its largest girth, which i3 just above the navel. It fluctuates distinctly. Dulness of the liver cannot be defined by percussion. The skin of the abdo- men is marked by transverse fissures or marks of a purplish colour ; it often feels very hot and as if it were bursting; tongue clean; appetite a little impaired ; no thirst or sickness ; bowels regu- lar ; stools somewhat fluid, but of healthy aspect ; urine scanty, thick, high coloured, of acid reaction, containing a yellowish brown sediment, but unaffected by heat; skin dry, not warmer than usual. She states that she never perspires. Has no cough or pectoral complaints except dyspnoea, which is very severe at •night. On auscultation the chest appears to be healthy. Pulse 88, sharp and small ; heart’s sounds apparently abrupt, but na- tural. The catamenia have appeared at irregular intervals, some- times of three weeks, at others five weeks, and when present are profuse. From this time she remained generally in about the same con- dition. The urine passed in the twenty-four hours never exceed- ed twelve ounces, and on one occasion was as low as six ounces. The abdomen gradually became more tense and the dyspnoea more urgent. Ii2th. Mr Syme performed the operation of paracentesis of the abdomen. The trocar was introduced to the left of the linea alba, about two inches above the pubic bone. Five imperial gal- lons of a yellow-coloured transparent fluid were removed. The last four ounces which came off were viscid like white of egg, and contained a few yellowish opaque flocculi. The fluid was densely coagulable on adding heat or nitric acid. The flocculi when examined with the microscope were found to be composed not of lymph, as was at first supposed, but of nu- merous cells, varying in size from the T&ath to ^th of a milli- metre in diameter. The great majority were about ygtli of a mil- limetre. They were slightly granular, of round and oval shape, unaffected by water, but becoming more transparent on the addi- tion of acetic acid, and exhibiting a distinct nucleus about ijgth of a millimeter in diameter. The nucleated cells were imbedded in a granular matter which could easily be broken down.