34 It follows, therefore, that the operation of amputation below the knee will still not unfrequontly bo required,—as amputation at the ankle-joint cannot supersede it in nearly all cases, and as the operation of amputation through the condyles of the thigh-bone, as lately recommended by Mr Syme,1 cannot properly supersede it in the remaining ones. The greater safety of amputation at the ankle-joint over that through any part of the leg, is sufficiently accounted for by the comparatively small extent of the part removed by the former ope- ration, and by the consequent slightness of the shock,—in accord- ance with the still established rule in surgery, that the danger is diminished proportionally as the amputation is distant from the trunk. It has lately, however, been conjectured by Mr Syme,2 that much of the safety attending the operation at the ankle, as well as near other joints, is due to the circumstance, that the cancellated texture only of the bone is divided by the saw, and that the me- dullary canal is not opened into. This would be an observation of considei’able importance in surgery, were it established. But the reasons which I have given above for the greater safety attending the ankle-joint operation are so obviously sufficient, that it is quite unnecessary to have recourse to any theoretical explanation in ad- dition. It may be that there is less risk incurred by the division of a bone through its cancellated texture than through its shaft; but we are still in great want of statistics sufficient to prove this. The results of amputation at the ankle-joint, as compared with that through the leg, cannot prove it, for reasons already given; neither for like reasons would it be proved, although the operation through the condyles of the thigh-bone was found to be less dan- gerous than that through its shaft; and it will be difficult to find those who will believe that, cceteris paribus, amputation below the knee is more dangerous than amputation through the condyles of the thigh-bone,3 or that amputation through the trochanters of the latter is more safe than amputation through its shaft, until it should be proved by the evidence of statistics. The operation of amputation at the ankle-joint was performed many yeai’s ago by various surgeons in France,4 5 by the formation of antero-posterior as well as of lateral flaps, but generally in such a manner as not to afford a sufficient covering for the ends of the bones. The projection of the malleoli formed one of the chief obstacles, but this difficulty was overcome by M. Baudens, ’ who practised 1 See Monthly Journal for May 18*15. 2 See Monthly Journal for August 1844 and for May 1845. 3 See Monthly Journal for May 1845. * See Mddecine Op6ratoire, by Velpeau, 1832. 5 See Medecine Optfratoire, by Bourgery, 1840.