Go matter towards tlie external opening. Some have thought, that the pressure employed, instead of directing the matter downwards, may have forced a portion of it upwards ; while others are inclin- ed to believe, that if the pressure, which latterly was much relax- ed, had been more steadily continued, the formation of that cavity and sinus might have been prevented. The question is important, however, rather in reference to the proper treatment of future cases, than to the fatal event of this case ; for the symptoms of ileus and the death of the patient were obviously dependent on the constric- tion of the portion of ileum above noticed by a band of lymph which was at the distance of some inches from any part of the wound, and had no connection either with the cavity or the sinus. Although various lesions were found after death, their origin and connection with each other will easily be understood from a perusal of the case, and of the post mortem examination. Notwithstanding the unsuccessful termination of this case, I am still of opinion that ovariotomy is warrantable when the diagnosis of the tumour is certain, and the other circumstances favourable. The more frequently it is performed the more readily will expe- rience dictate the avoidance of many errors that even now encum- ber the practice of it. When once recognised as a legitimate mode of treatment, and only performed in appropriate cases, there is every reason to hope, from the experience of the past, that the degree of mortality which has hitherto accompanied it will gradu- ally diminish. Before such a result can be hoped for, however, it is necessary that our notions of the pathology and diagnosis of the disease should be improved. To these subjects I shall advert in a separate communication. Remarks by Dr Handyside relative to the opera- tion of Ovariotomy in general. In the divided state of opinion existing among surgeons, rela- tive to the propriety of undertaking the operation of ovariotomy, the profession may naturally look to me as responsible for the step taken in the case now narrated; and expect a full statement of the reasons that led to the performance of that operation. It is acknowledged, that the only justification and full warrant for such surgical operations as involve imminent peril and hazard, —(such as lithotomy, the ligature of a large artery, the operation for hernia, amputation through the thigh, ovariotomy, &c.,)—rest on this ground, that their performance is essential to the preser- vation of the patient’s life. Thus, the patient in the present case had been much reduced by repeated tappings, the last three of which were found to be necessary during the very limited space of