(i lacerated wounds were visible on the outside of the joint; but tliev did not communicate with its cavity. The accident happened in the afternoon, .and the patient had been driven to the hospital in a cart, from a distance of ten miles. On his arrival there was no collapse, the skin being moderately warm all over, the pulse 100, and inclining to be full. The fracture was immediately reduced. The broken ends, on being brought into accurate coaptation, were retained so, by the limb being placed on a double inclined plane, and one roller applied from the toes upwards to the knee, while another reached from the middle of the thigh downwards, over the seat of fracture. The limb was restored to its proper length. The knee-joint being thus left exposed and free from traction, twenty-four leeches -were applied over it, and hot fomentations or- dered to be continued during the night. An opiate also was ad- ministered. The bowels had been previously opened, and the tongue was clean. 20th. Doing well; pain, heat, and swelling of the joint dimi- nished.—To be kept on loiv diet. 21 st. Swelling, pain, and heat of the joint increased; tongue white; skin hot, and dry ; bowels opened by enema; pulse 120, full, bounding, and incompressible. He was now bled from the arm to 14 ounces, which nearly in- duced syncope, after which the pulse fell to 100, and became soft and compressible. An opiate was then given, and repeated some hours afterwards, to meet the moderate reaction which ensued. An ounce of the following mixture teas ordered to be taken every second hour:—R. tartratis antimonii, gr. ii, bitart, potassoe t>ij, aquae %xxiv. Solve. 24th. Pain and swelling deci-eased. Continue fommtations and the antimonial solution. 27th. One of the wounds on the outer aspect of the joint now discharges much dark-coloured glairy serum, which appears to flow from the cavity of the articulation. May 4. The above discharge has now become purulent; pain and swelling of the joint much less.—To have the common diet of the hospital. 20th. To-day the splint was removed, a slough having formed over the popliteal cavity. When the loose slough was removed, pus escaped freely, and appeared to come from the seat of fracture. The fracture wras then found not to have made any progress towards union, although the ends of the bone had been retained in coapta- tion. The splint hitherto employed being found more available in this case than the straight splint of Dessault, was accordingly reap- plied, and pressure made, so as to direct the pus towards the surface, and favour its escape from the seat of fracture. 2bth. The ends of the bones now no longer remain in coaptation, the upper end rises over the lower, and the least motion or pressure