causes such intense pain, that all attempts to remedy the displace- ment are fruitless. The discharge from the knee-joint and the seat of fracture continues free. Tongue rather red ; pulse 100, and small; he has nocturnal sweatings.— To have full diet, and an acidulated tonic mixture. June 20. Continues much in the same condition, only the hectic is becoming more evident. — To have four ounces of wine daily. July 9. An opening has now formed in the soft parts, some inches above the inner condyle, through which a large sequestrum protrudes, which, on being handled, is found to be connected with the shaft of the os femoris. Some pus exudes along the lower sur- face of the sequestrum. 14f/t. An incision having been made down to the bone, two inches above the point where the sequestrum protrudes, much matter made its escape. The patient’s health has rather improved since the bone protruded. The purulent discharge from the knee has ceased, and the wound on the outside has closed, but there is still dull pain in the joint. 24th. Tongue red, glazed, and aphthous; pulse 120, small and weak; hectic blush veiy marked; has had great nocturnal sweat- ings, but as yet no diarrhoea. The sequestrum still adheres firmly to the upper portion or shaft of the bone. The sloughing in the popliteal region has now extended so far that the flexor tendons are exposed, and the lower portions of the fractured bone can be felt bare and rough.—Amputation ivas now deemed inevitable. 26th. The limb was accordingly removed to day, by the double- flap operation, in the middle of the thigh. The flaps were neces- sarily oblique in their direction, owing to the sloughing condition of the skin above the ham, and the protrusion anteriorly of the shaft of the bone. The anterior and outer flap was formed by trans- fixion and cutting outwards, but the posterior and inner one was completed by cutting from the surface inwards, owing to the awk- ward position of the lower end of the bone. The bone was healthy where the saw was applied. About 4 ounces of blood were lost; 10 vessels were tied; 7 sutures were introduced; and a pledget of dry lint, with a bandage, were applied to support the stump, which was long and fleshy. An opiate was given on his being replaced in bed. Two hours after the operation, the pulse being 150 and weak, and the patient faint, 2 oz. of wine were given. Moderate re-action fol- lowed some hours afterwards, and was met by an opiate. 21th. Feels vastly better ; pulse 140 and stronger; has slept and eaten well. To have 6 oz. of wine daily, in small and frequent doses combined with a little light solid nutriment. No heat or pain in the stump. 29th. Pulse 130, full and soft; tongue less red; bowels open. The stump was dressed to-day for the first time. Primary union lias taken place, except at the mere margin and outer commissure