58 pains in the abdomen. At 5 an injection of warm water was given, which was immediately returned with small lumps of feculent matter. She has since had two fluid feculent stools. Pulse 130, full; tongue clean, but dry; general appearance much improved; hungry. ft Ext. Hyoscyam. gr. x. s. s.; Pil. Opii, si opus sit. To have coffee and bread, and in the night, arrow root. 8th, 11a. m. Had short snatches of sleep during the night. There were, however, considerable griping pains in the abdomen. Since last report the bowels have been open twice, and loose fe- culent matter passed on both occasions, with small hardened por- tions of feces. At present is suffering much from colic pains. The coils of intestine distended with gas, produce visible pro- minences on the surface of the abdomen. There are none of these, however, below the umbilicus. A small indurated mass may be felt, on the left of, and somewhat below umbilicus; mat- ter discharged from opening more copious and of offensive odour; distension of leg gone, slight swelling of foot only remains; ery- thematous redness of left groin nearly disappeared ; tongue slight- ly furred, rather dry; thirst; pulse 140, firm ; appearance of ex- haustion much less. Had a little coffee, bread, and a tablespoon- ful of wine during the night. An injection immediately. ft Pulv. Opii, gr. iss.; T. Rliei, gr. x. ; Syr. q. s. Ft. pil. iv. Two for a dose. Hot fomentations to abdomen. 8 p. m. During the day had two stools, with small lumps of feces. There have been tormina throughout the day, but less than formerly. To-night the upper part of abdomen is found still to be distended with air; pulse 144, firm; tongue furred and dry; thirst. Has had no nourishment, with the exception of a little coffee, which was again vomited. Skin hot, feverish. To have draughts with 3j .Kali. Citratis et Vin. Autim. gut. x. Draught at night, with Sol. Morph.- m. xxv. Milk and water for drink. Nov. 9th. 11a. m. Passed a tolerable night ; likes the effervescent draughts ; vomited twice a slight quantity; is great- ly exhausted and emaciated ; tongue moist; less thirst; pulse 140, smaller. About two tablespoonfuls of soft feculent matter passed per anurn ; fever less. Pil. Opii et Calomel, i. Milk and water for drink. Two tea- spoonfuls of wine occasionally. 8 p. m. Has taken beef-tea and milk and water several times, but they have either been immediately vomited or retained a very short time. Between 1 and 4 p. m. had two stools, soft, but con- taining lumps of purulent matter and a little mucus. To-night pulse 140, thready; countenance anxious ; eyeballs staring ; ema-