39 Shortly after the operation, she complained of considerable pain in the abdomen towards the left side, which was not increased on pressure. Fifty minims of tincture of opium to be taken imme- diately. 7 p. M. Experiences pain over the abdomen analogous to cramps, not increased on pressure. Pulse between 70 and SO. Opii gr. i.; Pulv. Antim. gr. ij.; Con. Aromat. q. s. Ft. nil. 4ia kora samend. Mittantur vi. 13th. To-day has felt considerable trembling and faintishness, which were relieved by tightening the roller. Bowels not reliev- ed since yesterday morning; pulse 100; pain in abdomen very slight, not affected by pressure ; has passed forty-eight ounces of urine since yesterday ; vomited her breakfast; tongue much furred. The pills were stopped ; and one drachm of the compound jalap powder was directed to be taken immediately. 14th. Passed a good night, and has now no pain in the abdo- men ; but there is considerable tenderness on pressure towards right side, where the swelling appears to be greatest. Passed fifty ounces of urine. No powders have been taken since the morning of the 12th. Bowels freely opened by jalap powder. Breath- lessness. loth. Passed a restless night, having experienced much nausea and vomiting. She also felt considerable pain in the right iliac and hypochondriac regions. The pain still exists, and she says is much increased on pressure. The source of pain is very deep- seated ; is certainly not in the peritoneum. The puncture is now healed; the abdomen is still voluminous, but soft. On palpation, a tumour with distiuct margins, about the size of the adult human head, may be distinctly felt, firmly attached inferiorly within the pelvis, but its upper portion moveable to a considerable extent from side to side. She describes the pain as being of a dull, gnawing, and continued character; not lancinating nor increased on movement. Pulse 98, of natural strength; tongue slightly furred ; has tolerable appetite ; no thirst, but says she vomits everything she takes. The matters vomited are thrown up about ten minutes after each meal, in successive mouthfuls, accompanied by gnawing pains at the stomach. These latter pains are felt under the false ribs on the right side. The stomach is often felt to be distended, followed by considerable eructations of gas; bowels have been open four or five times ; urine much increased in amount since the operation ; to-day she passed thirty-eight ounces. On the 10th passed ten ounces of urine, on the 17th sixteen ounces. The compound jalap powder was directed to be given again. July 18th. To-day she was carefully examined by Professor Simpson, who employed his uterine bougie. By this means the