35 ami recommends removing them by the saw, and along with them part of the articular surface of the tibia. A still greater improvement, however,—that of taking the cover- ing flap from behind, so as to make the soft parts of the heel cover and protect the ends of the bones,—seems also to have been first practised in France. This method is described by Dr T. King of London.1 “The operation,11 says he, “might be performed by ruakine a short flap in front, by a semicircular incision, extending from one malleole to the other. As the internal malleole descends less than the outer one, the joint should be opened on that side; the astragalus being luxated, the covering flap should be carved out of the soft parts of the heel. The removal of the malleoles would allow an ample covering for the stump. Lisfranc, in his lectures, mentions a man on whom this amputation had been performed, who could walk ten or twelve miles a-day with great ease.”2 The merit, however, of introducing this operation into regular practice, is more especially due to Professor Syme, of this city. He ’ was, 1 believe, the first surgeon who performed it in this country,3 —who showed the importance of the operation,—and how it ought, in many cases, to supersede the operation of amputation through i the leg. According to the method practised by Mr Syme,4 the soft parts of the heel are included in the posterior flap, and the flaps meet : transversely in front of the anterior margin of the lower end of the tibia. The cicatrice, however, is thus necessarily exposed to the pressure of the latter part, and of the bases of the malleoli, and also to the front of the boot or shoe. According to the method described in Case 4, the ball of the heel is also included, but the flaps are so formed as to meet vertically in front. The cicatrice thus—which afterwards does not exceed from an inch and a half to two inches and a half in length—lies between the soft part of 1 Cyclopedia of Practical Surgery, article “ Amputation,” 1837. 2 Since writing the above, my attention has been directed to some observations on this subject in the Periscope of the Northern Journal of Medicine for September 1844 among which there is an interesting quotation from M. Malgaigne’s Manuel de Mede- cine Operatoire, 1834, which the above quotation very much resembles, and which also .goes to prove, that the practice of including the soft parts of the heel in the posterior flap was at least recommended first in France. M. Malgaigne writes as follows, page -247:—“Nous ferions done un tres-eourt lambeau en avant, par une incision demicir- culaire aboutissant au bord posterior de chaque malleole. Puis l’articulation serait at- taquie par le coti interne dont la malle'ole descend moins de quatre lignes que l’autrc et, la disarticulation achevde, on taillerait le lambeau aux de'pens de la peau du talon* plus propre que tout autre, apres la guerison, it soutenir le poids du corps. Et si les mallioles faisaient trop obstacle a la reunion, nous ne verrions aucun inconvenient a les •retrancher, et h obtenir ainsi le moignon le mieux conformi et le mieux revetu de tous ■ceux qui risnltent d’amputations faites a la jambe et it la cuisse. M. Lisfranc dit dans <sos cours, qu’il a pu examiner un homme araputi dans cctte articulation qui avait con- ■servi la flexion de la jambe, et qui pouvait, sans inconvenient, fairo quatre ii cinq lieues par jour.” 1 3 See Monthly Journal for Feb. 1813. 4 See Monthly Journal for August 1814.