42 performed by Dr Handyside, and about four gallons of fluid were removed. The character of the fluid was exactly the same as on former occasions, except that the flocculi were not so large and numerous. About an hour after the operation considerable pain in the abdomen came on, which continued until 2 a. m. this morn- ing. notwithstanding two anodyne draughts. To-day is free from pain. Slight cephalalgia. Bowels not open since yesterday morning. September 3d. This evening a consultation was held; present Dr Handyside, Dr Simpson, Dr Spittal, Mr Crabbe, and Dr Ben- nett. Patient is doing well; no pain ^ tumour very moveable, and distinctly felt, as after previous tappings. The propriety of ovariotomy was agreed on, Dr Handyside having now satisfied himself that this was a case urgently calling for the performance of that operation, and feeling that lie could no longer conscien- tiously decline the proposal to this effect, previously made to him by Dr Bennett. To have half an ounce of castor oil. September 4th. Partly vomited castor oil. Bowels open only slightly ; is in good spirits; face pale and a little anxious. B. Ext. Colocynth. c. gr. x.; Ext. Hyoscyam. gr. v. Ft. pil. iii. s.s. A domestic enema in the morning. September 5th. Bowels opened four times during the night, the last time at 8 this morning. In good health and spirits. Tongue clean. To-day the operation was performed by Dr Handyside, in the presence of Dr Beilby, Dr J. Y. Simpson, Dr W. Camp- bell, Dr A. D. Campbell, Dr Baillie, Dr Bennett, Mr Goodsir, and Dr Struthers. Description of the operation and subsequent treat- ment up to October 3d. By Dr Handyside. The operation was performed at half-past 12. The tempera- ture of the room was raised to 72°. The patient was placed on a table before a good light, her feet resting on a stool, and her shoulders raised and supported by pillows. The other necessary arrangements for the operation having been made, Dr Handy- side, now, standing to the right side of the patient, made, with a strong scalpel, an incision of about three inches in length through the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, midway between the umbilicus and pubis, and over the linea alba. This incision was deepened carefully, the linea alba divided, and the peritoneum reached. A fold of this membrane was pinched up with the for- ceps, and a small opening made into it. Through this opening some glairy fluid escaped, indicating that the cavity of the abdo- men had been opened. With a probe-pointed bistoury the peri- toneum. was now slit open to the extent of an inch less than the