59 ciation extreme. Has a sore on the left hip, the surface broken over the space of a five-shilling piece. Had one opium and ca- lomel pill. Gums and mouth sore; spirits depressed, and ex- presses a fear of approaching death. Beef-tea injection, with Sol. Morph. 3j- J Haust. c. Sol. Mur. Morph. M. xxv. White-wine whey. Nov. 10th, 8 a. m. Vomited much last night until 11 P. m. after which passed rather a restless night, with occasional sound sleep for short periods; pulse 150, small and more feeble. Had two drachms of wine six times during the night, and several times a little beef-tea. This morning had a wine- glassful of milk. Complains of mouth being hot and sore ; countenance less anxious. Beef-tea injection was retained some time, and when passed was accompanied with much flatus. Sina- pism was applied to epigastrium last night, but produced no relief. The upper part of the abdomen still distended. There are oc- casional tormina, preceded by loud borborygmi. Discharge from opening thin, foetid, and tinging the bed-clothes blackish. Repeat beef-tea injection with forty minims of solution of mu- riate of morphia; wine as before; beef-tea or milk for drink. 8 p. >i. Passed the day tranquilly, with only occasional pain in abdomen. Appetite improved, asks for food; has taken four ounces of milk twice, and sometimes a few tablespoonfuls of beef- tea with a little bread. Two teaspoonfuls of wine have been given every hour; no vomiting. At present is tolerably easy; anxiety of countenance disappeared ; voice more firm ; pulse 130, firm ; no motion ; somewhat stronger. A beef-tea injection with forty minims of tincture of opium has been given and retained. Lin. Sapon. c. Opio, to be rubbed on abdomen. Haust. Anody. 11th, 8 a. m. Passed a restless night from griping pains in ab- domen and flatulency; vomited twice during the night; pulse 136; thirst; no stool; frictions on abdomen have produced no relief. Warm water injection. 8 p. M. During the day has vomited every thing taken; mat- ters ejected are of a greenish hue, with flakes of mucus ; bowels open slightly once, when about two ounces of feculent matter were discharged with several lumps in it; frequent desire at stool and tenesmus. At present pulse 140, of good strength ; upper part of abdomen still distended and tympanitic. R Bismuth. Oxyd. gr. x.; Pulv. Opii gr. ii. M. Ft. pil. iv. One every hour. 12th, 8 a. m. About one o’clock this morning the tenesmus and pain in abdomen have ceased ; she had then taken two pills; has since, been restless and vomited every thing taken ; thirst; mouth very sore, with discharge of saliva; bowels not opened since last report; pulse 130, firm.