57 returned without feces ; pulse 130, as before ; abdomen tense and not so much swollen ; loud borborygmi, heard at some distance from the bed. The stethoscope enabled amphoric resonance to be detected occasionally with these. To lie if possible on right side. 6‘th, S a. m. Between 10 and 11 last night had a warm water injection, which was returned in a few minutes without feculent matter. About 11 had a small beef-tea injection with forty drops of laudanum, which was retained. Had a pill at 11 p. m., and again at 4 a.m. Vomited at 2 and 74 a. m. ; matters ejected not fecu- lent, but containing bile ; abdomen less distended since last night, soft, and little or no pain on pressure ; respirations decidedly show descent of diaphragm. There is still general enlargement of the limb, with an erythematic blush, extending from orifice of wound round to left hip, showing the surface over which the matter flows. She still lies constantly on the left side. Discharge scanty. Pulse 130, small. Thirst increased. R Ext. Colocynth. gr. iv. ; Pulv. Scammon. gr. iv. ; Ext. Hyoscyam. gr. ij. Ft. pil. ij. s. s. 12^ p. m. Lies a little on right side. Has slept at intervals during the morning, and taken a little coffee and bread, which has remained on the stomach. Complains of griping pains through the bowels. The aperient pills were retained. 8 p. 3i. About 2 p. M. had desire to go to stool. Nothing was passed, however, but felt sick and vomited a mouthful of matter, not stercoraceous. About 7. p. m. vomited half a basonful of dark-brown matter, decidedly feculent. At present pulse 140, of good strength. Tympanitic distension of abdomen disappear- ed ; still loud on percussion, however, which is well contrasted with the perfect dulness below umbilicus ; otherwise the same ; no tenderness on pressure; swelling of leg and erythematous blush very much diminished. Continue calomel and opium pills. To have beef-tea injection early to-morrow. One drachm of mercurial ointment to be rubbed into the axilla on both sides. 7th, 8 a. m. Vomited only once last night; matter bilious, not feculent; slept well; swelling of leg diminished ; pulse 138, soft; otherwise the same. Pills to be continued. 8 p. m. Had a beef-tea injection at about 10 o’clock, which was retained. Half an hour afterwards felt a desire to go to stool, but was unable to pass anything; then took the opium and calomel pill. About 11 had a teaspoonful of Dalby’s carmina- tive, which immediately induced vomiting. After this she felt very faint and exhausted. Three tcaspoonfuls of sherry wine were then given in water. At mid-day a tablespoonful of yellowish fluid of feculent odour passed per anum. From this time till 5 p. M. small quantities of similar fluid, sometimes thick as cream, passed from the bowels, accompanied by considerable griping