25 presents the usual osseous cancelli, but these aro condensed and crowded, owing to the altered form of the head, nock, and trochan- ter. This alteration in form consists chiefly in the flattening and elon- gation, in a transverse direction, of the head of the bone, and in the nearly complete absence, from absorption, of the neck, the head at its upper arc being almost in contact with the great tro- chanter. The periosteum, which extends over and limits the tumour, is thickened and diseased, and this condition extends as high as the head of the bone. The morbid mass, which con- stitutes the tumour proper, lies between the shaft of the bone and its periosteum, having originated either in the latter texture, or in the outer lamina of the shaft. The former is the more probable view, since, in the substance of the periosteum it- self, both above and below the tumour, (where that investing membrane, altered by disease, sur- rounds the cervix, and also the lower fifth of the thigh-bone) may be recognised both osteo-sarco- matous and medullary tissue. In structure, the tumour appears to be a mixture of the osteo-sar- coma and of the fibro-medullary formation, there being distinct radiating bands between the surface of the bone and the periosteal covering of the tumour. Some of these strim are osteo-cartila- ginous, and others fibrous; and in the interstices of both of these are deposited the sarcomatous and encephalomatous substances. The teres ligament adheres firmly to the bone, and is healthy in texture. These appearances, presented by the section of the tumour and bone, are represented in the accompanying sketch. But the tumour having presented the appearance already describ- ed, when the case presented itself at the hospital, it was evident, that the only chance in favour of the patient’s life being saved, or at least prolonged, was the early and complete removal of the tumour;—it w?as therefore resolved to afford the patient this benefit. The question next arose, whether the limb should be removed by amputation in the upper fifth of the thigh, or by dis- articulation at the hip-joint; but there could be little doubt as to the propriety, or rather the necessity, of giving the preference to the latter operation, since the bone evidently appeared to be affec- ted as high as the trochanteric region. This fact was indicated by the symptoms already noticed. Had the operation of amputation through the trochanters been performed, the patient might have sustained with impunity the shock resulting from this at least equally severe operation—the