10 tra-indicated the removal of the tube at that early period ; but the surface of the wound had become rapidly covered with plastic lymph, and after this hemorrhage was no longer to be feared. It is interesting, also, to observe the remarkable diminution of the Bronchocele which occurred in this case. This was no doubt owing, in a great measure, to the extensive local bleeding which followed the operation, and to the subsequent contraction from the cicatriza- tion of the wound; though it may also have been due to the previous treatment, and to the change of locality which the patient had made. This case then shows that the pressure exerted by a Bronchocele may not only be sufficient to cause so much dyspncea as to require tracheotomy for its relief, but that the operation may be performed in these circumstances with success. The latter fact points out also the propriety of having recourse to this operation in those cases— not uncommon in districts where the Bronchocele prevails—in which the patient has begun to suffer severely from dyspnoea, as well as from the consequent affection of the lungs and heart,—and where either death has been allowed to take place from the severity of these symptoms, or where the unwarrantable operation of complete exci- sion of the tumour has been had recourse to, as the only apparent means of relief. In the second case also, the dyspnoea was of a spasmodic charac- ter, arising, however, not from primary or direct irritation of the muscles or motor nerves of the larnyx, but from reflex motor influ- ence, which was excited by the irritation,—from the particles of sand,—of the sensory nerves of the mucous membrane of the glottis, and of the neighbouring parts. After it had been ascertained that no foreign body was lodged above the rima glottidis so as to cause its occlusion mechanically, the line of practice to be followed was very evident; namely, the immediate establishment of an artificial opening into the trachea, to save the patient from being speedily asphyxiated. Much relief accordingly was felt as soon as the tube was introduced. The operation was thus performed as a measure of necessity, and on account of the dyspnoea alone ;—but it was also attended by an unlooked-for advantage, as a few particles of sand which had entered the trachea, were thus afforded an opportunity, though unintention- ally, of making their escape. That the latter advantage was not part of the object or design of the operation, is sufficiently evident from the fact, that information as to some particles of the sand having actually entered the trachea, asphyxia, from mechanical closure of the rima glottidis ; unless one only of the recur- rent nerves was affected, when the closure would be less complete. In tlio case, however, of the patient Dixon, the dyspncea evidently arose from spasm, and not from paralysis, of the muscles of the glottis.