20 rator arteries and their branches, as these issued from their pelvic apertures, was temporarily arrested by the instantaneous and firm application of two dry sponges, which, during the ablation of the limb, two other assistants watched the opportunity to apply; and the bleeding from the many small vessels of the posterior flap was farther prevented by the quick application of the expanded hands of the second assistant, instantly on his dropping the amputated limb. The vessels of the posterior flap were secured by ligatures, previously to those of the anterior, the superficial femoral being tied last. Fifteen vessels in all required ligature. About six ounces only of blood were lost, and this flowed chiefly from the divid- ed surface of the ablated limb. The flaps were brought together by seven points of the interrupted suture; a pledget of dry lint was next applied,—and this was retained, while the stump also was supported by the application, around the loins and pelvis, of a broad cotton bandage. The patient bore the operation well; but symptoms of the shock exhibited themselves before he left the table, notwithstanding that stimuli to the amount of four ounces of brandy and two of wine were administered. He was replaced in bed, after about 15 minutes on- ly had elapsed since his leaving it, and the removal of the limb did not occupy more than about one-third of a minute;—although a tri- vial delay was occasioned at the moment when the limb was forcibly depressed, by the attendants having, in their desire to stead the patient’s body, drawn the nates backwards on the table, from which position he had to be again drawn forward. Soon after being placed in bed he became much excited, from the load of stimuli that had been given him during the operation; but on vomiting freely, he became quite calm. The pulse, however, soon began to sink, so that additional stimuli were administered. On this he revived, and about an hour and a half after the operation the pulse had risen to 115, and half an hour thereafter reaction set in.—An opiate, consisting of 20 drops of the sol.mur. morph., teas then administered, and repeated twice within an hour. At 4 o’clock p.m., he was asleep; and the pulse still continued at 115. At 9 p.m. the pulse was 125; at 11 p.m. 140; and at 12 p.m. 150. The respirations were 35 in the minute, and he perspired profusely. July 1. At 1 o’clock a.m. the pulse had risen to 156, and it con- tinued thus high till about 3 a.m., when it fell to 150. At 9 a.m., it was reported that he had slept most of the night. The pulse was found still to continue high, and an opiate ivas given, which has been since repeated. 3 p.m. The pulse has now risen to 160.—To have a full opiate, which is to be repeated several times during the afternoon and evening, and let a blister be applied to the chest, as slight catarrhal symptoms have shown themselves. July 2. He slept soundly during the night, and the pulse has