4G gruel. Fifteen drops of the “ black drop” were now given, as she was restless and irritable. 9 p. m. Pulse 130. Has passed urine three times during the day,—the quantity each time being about four ounces. The ban- dage was now loosened for the first time. Some scro-purulent fluid oozed from around the ligatures. Except where the latter intervene the wound seems to be united throughout. The ban- dage was replaced, as she complained of a feeling of tightness of the abdomen. To have some beaf-tea and toast. 8th, 9 a. M. She has slept several hours during the night, and passed urine twice; pulse 120, and not so soft as before; skin hot and dry; complains of griping pain in abdomen; no mo- tion of the bowels as yet. An enema of warm water to be admi- nistered. 2 p. m. Pulse 120. The enema has acted twice, but no in- testinal matter has come with it. Griping still continues. The compresses were removed, and the wound dressed for the first time. Union by the first intention has taken place throughout, except where the ligatures interpose. Some sero-purulent fluid oozed from around the latter. Light compresses were applied along the side of the wound, and retained by a few straps, and the bandage was again replaced. 9 p. m. She has slept some time since last report. Passed urine twice during the day ; bowels again moved in the after- noon, but no faeces in the stool; pulse 120- It may be here stated, to save repetition, that she continued to pass urine regularly and freely, the quantity gradually increasing. 9th, 9 a. M. She has passed a good night, but her sleep has been occasionally interrupted by tormina, which caused several watery stools, with the passage of flatus. Pulse 120 ; skin cool. Has had some arrow root with new milk. She has also been troubled with flatulence and eructation, for which she was order- ed half a wine glassful of a mixture of equal parts of milk and lime water occasionally, and she is to have “ Dalby’s carminative,” one drachm for a dose, if the flatulence continues. 2 p. m. After a dose of each of the above the tormina and fla- tulence diminished. The wound was again dressed. The tepid water dressing was applied to the lower part of the wound. No tenderness of abdomen. 9 p. M. Had bread with milk to dinner. Bowels moved, and feculent matter in the stool. 10th, 9 a. m. She has slept a good deal during the night. Pulse 130, and soft ; respirations 35 ; tongue white and fur- red ; complains of tormina ; wound discharging freely around ligatures. The three lower alternate needles were removed, and their places supplied by straps of adhesive plaster. rl o have chicken broth for dinner.