9 Amputation might at this time have been justifiably performed ; but, in consideration of the youth and constitution of the patient, an attempt was first made to combat the hectic, and afford nature an opportunity and time to detach the sequestrum, and furnish sufficient callus. The hectic, however, soon declaring itself strongly, and the case continuing to be further complicated by symptoms of ulceration of the articular cartilages of the knee, and sloughing in the popliteal region, amputation was at length unavoidably had recourse to. The chief indication after the operation was to ex- tricate the patient from the danger of the shock, by bringing about re-action ; and this being effected by carefully administered stimuli, he was comparatively safe, requiring afterwards only nourishing- food, moderate stimuli and tonics, with the usual local treatment, to restore him to his former health. Viewing the two cases at the period when the sequestra protruded, they present a remarkable contrast to each other. In both a lai'ge sequestrum protruded at the same spot; but in the former case it had already been undergoing separation, by a natural effort, from the living bone, and waited only for the co-operation of the surgeon. An ample substitute was already formed, and the powers of the system were yet able to furnish more ;—whereas, in the latter case, the sequestrum adhered as yet firmly, the system being unable either to effect the tedious process of separation, or to produce a sufficient callus, were the separation to have been completed by art; the joint also was still diseased; and lastly, the hectic was so advanced that there remained not the slightest chance of recovery, without having- recourse to the summary measure at length adopted. Although, then, we have seen it to be possible, in some cases of extensive Necrosis,—notwithstanding the existence of immense de- formity,—to save not only life but limb, where formerly, to preserve life, it might have been deemed necessary to sacrifice the member; it is obvious that other cases will still occur where any treatment short of this serious sacrifice, and the concomitant danger to which he is exposed from the operation, will fail to save the patient’s life. II.—SPASMODIC AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. Case 1. Bronchocele giving rise to Spasmodic Dyspnoea—Tra- | cheotomy—Recovery. Jaret Dixon, aged 18, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary, under Dr Handyside, on April 16, 1845, with a large Bronchocele.’ On admission, both lobes, as well as the isthmus of the thyroid body, were much enlarged. The swelling was soft and yielding, and li