32 Case 5. Amputation at the Ankle-joint. Recovery.—Andrew Scott, aged 8, from Leith, was admitted on June 4, 1843, on account of disease of the left ankle. The joint was enlarged, painful, and dis- torted. An opening existed below the inner malleolus, through which the probe passed readily into the joint, and detected a cari- ous condition of the astragalus. The affection arose, it was stated, from a sprain which he received six years before admission. On the 11th of June a sequestrum was felt loose beneath the inner malleolus, and it was removed easily by dilating the opening. The sequestrum was found to be part of the astragalus, which was again felt to be quite carious. A consultation of the surgeons was held on the case, when it was recommended to delay amputation, and to try the application of the red oxide of mercury. On July 26tli, he was sent out of the Hospital by DrHandyside; and as the case did not improve, but still appeared to him to be one requiring amputation, he then performed the operation. This was done on the 14th of August, and exactly in the same manner as in the case last described. Two vessels only required ligature. The flaps united by the first intention, and a month afterwards the pa- tient was walking freely on the stump. On examination afterwards, the as- tragalus was found to be almost en- tirely destroyed by disease, and a large carious cavity existed in the upper portion of the os calcis. At present the boy walks with per- fect ease and freedom with a high- heeled and padded boot, and he can rest the weight of the body on the naked stump without the smallest in- convenience. The cicatrice is about an inch and a half in length, and has not suffered at all from pressure. The ball of the heel remains beneath the ends of the bones, and forms an excel- lent protection for them. The leg is much smaller than the other, from the partial wasting . of its muscles, which are now no longer required, and it is exactly an inch and a half shorter than the other. The accompanying sketch repre- sents the form and length of the stump, and the difference in size, which now exists, between the legs.