14 as far as the larynx and wound are concerned. A diffuse abscess which formed superficially in the submental region, has been eva- cuated by the knife, and the opening is now nearly closed. The wound from the operation is now also nearly closed, and there has existed for the last eight days no direct communication between the trachea and the surface. The patient’s voice remains husky. She is now taking wine and nourishing food. August 7. The patient, though dismissed only to-day, has been considered as cured for some weeks, as she has remained under medical treatment in the hospital, on account of a rheumatic affec- tion of the articulations of both the upper and lower extremities, accompanied by the usual debility. Her health is now restored, and her voice is natural. Discharged—cured. Remarks.—These cases present many points of interest to the pathologist, and of practical importance to the surgeon. In regard to the first case, there can be little doubt that the dyspnoea arose from a spasmodic affection of the muscles of the glot- tis, and not from change of structure in the lining membrane of the larnyx. The occurrence of tumours in the neck giving rise, in various ways, to dyspnoea, so as to have demanded the performance of tra- cheotomy, is by no means rare ; but in this case, the tumour was of such a nature, as to render the treatment complicated and difficult, and the ultimate result of it doubtful. The Bronchocele was simple in its nature, and had nothing pecu- liar either in its history or disposition, except in its having encroach- ed more on the trachea than might have been expected from its out- ward appearance. The treatment adopted for the removal of the thyroid enlarge- ment, was that which is found to be most efficacious when the tumour is of a simple nature, namely, the internal administration of iodine, with the external and topical application of the hydriodate of potass and mercurial ointments, with friction. The efficacy of this treat- ment was not, however, in this case, fairly tested, as it was not con- tinued after the operation was performed. On the day on which the dyspnoea occurred, the patient was found to be in an extremely excited and uneasy condition, resulting from the action of the mercury, which had affected the system solely by its external application; and this condition would predispose strongly to the occurrence of the spasmodic affection of the muscles of the larynx, which was excited by the irritation of, or recent and moder- ate pressure on, the recurrent or motor laryngeal nerves, by the still increasing Bronchocele.* * The recurrent or motor nerves of tho larynx, it will be remembered, lie imme- diately behind, and by the side of the trachea, at its upper part; and they would