29 IV.—CARIES OF THE TARSUS AND ANKLE-JOINT. The following Cases illustrate well the improvement which has been lately made in the treatment of disease of the bones of the tarsus and ankle-joint; and they may also assist in forming an estimate as to the relative merits of the operations of amputation below the knee and at the ankle-joint. Some of the Cases, at the same time that they add instances in proof of the advantages and safety of the latter operation, point out an important modification in its mode of performance. Case 1. Amputation through the Leg. Recovery.—Elisabeth Hut- ton, aged 12,1'rom Dunfermline, was admitted into the Royal In- firmary, under Dr Handyside, on March .SO, 1841, on account of disease of the right ankle-joint. The soft parts around the joint were much swollen. Several openings existed on each side beneath the malleoli, through which the probe passed readily into carious bone. The discharge was not profuse, but the patient was becom- ing hectic. Two years and a half before admission, the joint be- came swollen without any assignable cause. Six months afterwards it became very painful, and continued in this condition for a year, when the openings formed, and matter was discharged. On the 12th of April, a consultation of the Surgeons was held on the case, when it was agreed to amputate through the leg. Next day the operation was performed through the middle ef the leg. The flaps were made by cutting from without inwards. Seven vessels required ligature. After the operation, the hectic declined l’apidly; the flaps united by the first intention, except at their margins merely; and the patient was dismissed, cured, on the 80th of April. Case 2. Amputation below the Knee. Recovery.—Cecilia Grant, aged 15, was admitted on March 22,1842, on account of disease of the j left foot. There was considerable pain, redness, and swelling over the ankle and tarsus; and, on the inner aspect of the latter, fluc- tuation w’as perceptible, but no opening then existed. About thir- teen months before admission, the ankle and foot became swollen and painful, and had continued so, notwithstanding appropriate treatment* Openings were made by Dr Handyside to evacuate the matter, and through these the bones of the tarsus were found, on examination by the probe, to be in a carious condition. The pa- tient became hectic, and, as this increased, it was agreed, at a con- sultation of the Surgeons, that amputation below the knee should be performed. This was done, on the 25th of April, by Mr Miller, in the absence of Dr Handyside. The flaps had healed partially by the first intention, when, on tho fourth day after tho operation, they became inflamed, and were attacked on their margins by pha- :getlsenic action, which was at that time prevalent in the hospital.