4 the ball of the foot, and thus compensating for the shortness of the limb. She has recovered the use of the hip and knee joints, and can use the limb freely. Her general health is excellent. Dismissed,— cured. Appearance of the Sequestrum.—On examination, it was found to be from four to five inches in length, and to involve the whole cir- cumference of the os femoris at its middle, and also the entire thickness of that bone. The medullary canal is empty and per- vious, except at the middle, where it is obstructed by a cribriform bony septum. The whole sequestrum is uniform in its appearance, and its distal extremity is rough and irregular, indicating that it has been detached at Nature’s line of separation. Remarks.—This case has been deemed worthy of notice from its peculiar nature, and from the success which has attended the treat- ment pursued. In regard to its previous history, the case presents nothing very peculiar. The absence of an apparently sufficient exciting cause is of frequent occurrence, and the subsequent progress of the case is what might have been expected considering the treatment,—at first injurious, and subsequently inefficient,—which was had recourse to. The shaft of the bone itself had been inflamed, both internally and externally, as indicated by the size and nature of the seques- trum—the upper end of which had become separated by the seventh month, as shown by the bending of the thigh, the substi- tute bone having been then either broken or bent, from its inability as yet to support weight or to resist force. The case had thus be- come seriously complicated, and it illustrates well the important practical indication, to support the limb during the progress of Ne- crosis. The protrusion of the sequestrum is the next feature of import- ance, which, along with the free escape of the matter that had formed around it, afforded, as usual, great relief. Hectic, however, had fairly manifested itself previously to the patient being sent to the Hospital; and her health was then con- siderably reduced. Two lines of practice then presented themselves,—either the im- mediate removal of the limb, in accordance with the hitherto general rule, that, “ when the necrosis is extensive and near a large joint, and when the new bone has given way and immense deformity and vast irritation resulted, amputation ought not to be delayed to save the life, if not the limb, of the patient,”—or on the other hand, by removing the sequestrum, to give the patient a chance of preserv- ing the limb. In favour of the latter view, there was the probabi- lity, that the sequestrum had been already separated by the natural process, and being only bound down mechanically by the new osseous case, might therefore be easily and safely removed by operation,— that sufficient callus had now been formed to supply the place of