44 half of the knot to slacken before the other half could be thrown. The tumour now required to be removed. This was done by cutting carefully with a scalpel at about an inch beyond the part surrounded by the ligatures. In doing so a cyst, which had ex- tended down to the pedicle, was necessarily opened, and some more of the glairy fluid escaped. During the division of the pe- dicle venous blood escaped freely from the tumour, but, after the removal of that latter, no bleeding occurred from the divided sur- face of the pedicle, although the mouth of at least one large artery was visible. The right ovary was now examined, and it was found to be enlarged to the size of a walnut, and to contain seve- ral small cysts. Accordingly Dr Handyside proceeded to remove it also. A needle carrying a double ligature was passed through the middle of the ligament of the ovary, and the ends tied sepa- rately in the same manner as on the other side. No bleeding fol- lowed the division of the ligament beyond the ligatures. The portions of the broad ligaments which were left were unaltered in structure. The four ends of ligature attached to each broad li- gament were now tied together around the latter, and then three of the ends cut off so as to leave one only from each side hanging at the lower angle of the wound. The blood mixed with the re- mainder of the glairy fluid was now sponged carefully out of the lower part of the abdomen and the pelvis, which were exposed. The peritoneum lining the abdominal wall, as well as that cover- ing part of the intestines, was now examined, and seen to be of a red colour, as from congestion or chronic inflammation ; but on no part was there any mark of the effusion of lymph. Beneath the part of it which lined the abdominal wall, the appearance as of numerous ecchymotic spots was visible. Part of the intestines which were seen towards the termination of the operation, though they did not protrude, were quite natural in their appearance. All oozing of blood from the incisions in the abdominal wall having ceased, no vessel having required liga- ture, the edges of the wound, with the careful exclusion of the peritoneum only, were approximated and retained in accurate ap- position by means of twisted sutures, ten of which were employed. Corresponding parts of the edges of the incision were indicated by the dark points and cross lines which were previously marked with the nitrate of silver, and which, on the now flaccid skin, were found to be of great use. A long pad of tint was now laid, as a com- press, along each side of the wound, and a lighter one over it, and these were retained by broad strips of adhesive plaster. Lastly, over these pressure was made, and support given, by the ends of a double many-tailed bandage, which had been placed under the patient before the operation began, and which were crossed and pinned alternately at opposite sides of the abdomen. The patient