that he is now glad to submit to the operation of tracheotomy. It was accordingly performed by the resident clerk in the following manner:—An incision of about two inches in length was made in the usual situation. The enlarged isthmus of the thyroid body was then felt, and avoided ; and, on deepening the incision, the trachea was found to have been pushed deeply towards the left side, by a portion of the right lobe of the gland, which at the same time over- lapped and covered it. An attempt was now made to raise this portion of the tumour from off the trachea, but this was found to be impossible, from the extent and adhesions of the tumour; an in- cision was accordingly made through it to reach the trachea, into which a sufficient opening was then made. On the tube being in- serted, the patient felt relieved, though at first much cough was ex- cited by the trickling of blood into the trachea and along the tube, which was much too short, although the longest in the house. The hemorrhage was very profuse, though principally venous in its character. It however continued, notwithstanding the applica- tion of pressure, for nearly two hours,—when Dr Handyside was sent for. It was then entirely arrested by increased pressure. The quantity of blood lost was supposed to be about a pound ; but from its having flowed on the bed-clothes, the exact amount of it could not be ascertained. The epiglottis and glottis were at this time felt by Dr Handyside, and there was no oedema.—The wound to he kept covered over with a light piece of linen gauze ; and 20 drops of the solution of muriate of morphia to he administered. At 10 A.M., he breathed easily, and entirely by the mouth and nares,—air passing through the tube only when a forced expiration was made. He had no dyspnoea when the mouth of the tube was closed by the finger. He still complains of pain in the region of the salivary glands and mouth. At noon. The tube was removed by Dr Handyside, without the slightest recurrence of dyspnoea. There has been likewise no return of the hemorrhage. Lint dipped in cold water was applied to the wound, and covered 11 over with oiled silk. He spoke at this time not in a whisper, but with a pretty full ; and strong voice. 8 P.M. He continues to breathe easily by the mouth and nares, and there has been no return of the dyspnoea, or of the hemorrhage. Pulse 140, soft, and small. Bowels opened hy an enema.—To have ! a draught, consisting of 3ss of the tinctura hyoscyami, ivhich is to ‘ be repeated if necessary. 11th May. He continues to breathe naturally, and has had no re- currence of the dyspnoea. The wound has assumed a glazed appear- ance from the effusion of lymph, and there has been no recurrence of the hemorrhage.— To ho.ve the following mixture. It. Spirit is