41 09th. Twenty-two ounces. 30th. Twenty-six ounces. 31st. Ten ounces. August 1. Urine sixteen ounces. August 7th. Since last report the amount of urine passed daily has diminished to from ten to twelve ounces, whilst the increase of fluid in the abdomen has gradually rendered respiration difficult. To-day this fluid was removed by Dr Duncan. A trocar wras introduced in the mesian line, above the pubes low down. Five and a half gallons of yellow slightly viscid fluid were removed. Towards the end the viscidity of the fluid was increased, and floc- culi, as on the last occasion of tapping, were observed. Exami- nation of the flocculi microscopically presented the same appear- ances as on the last occasion. Fluid the same chemically. Soon after the operation she experienced considerable pain in the back and over superior portion of abdomen, which was not in- creased by pressure. Pulse became quick and full. At 8 v. M. she had experienced no relief, and was ordered half a drachm of the solution of muriate of morphia in the form of draught imme- diately, and repeated at midnight if necessary. August 8th. The pain ceased at midnight. Had little sleep. To-day slight pain under false ribs of left side ; otherwise easy. Pulse natural. She has passed more than fifty ounces of urine. August 9th. Passed a good night; slight pain in abdomen on pressure. Amount of urine less than yesterday, but not measured. August 16th. Since last report has been in the Surgical Hospital. Dr Bennett proposed to the acting-surgeons severally the operation ofovariotomv, which they declined to perform. To-day, accordingly, she returned to the medical ward. During the interval her gene- ral health has been good. The fluid in the abdomen, however, is again accumulating. By a careful examination the tumour can be ascertained to be quite free from adhesions to the anterior walls of the abdomen. These latter can be pulled forwards and held steady, while the tumour is made to roll free beneath. Passed dur- ing the last 24 hours eighteen ounces of urine. The liver was care- fully percussed. Its extreme dulness in the right hypochondrium is three inches ; it is pushed considerably upwards, the upper line of dulness being on a level with the nipple. She denies ever having suffered from dyspeptic symptoms, or so-called attacks of bile; and her general health is in every respect good, and the amount of urine discharged diminishing. Her genera] health is not so robust as when she first entered the house. Dismissed from the infirmary August 24th. The fluid of abdo- men somewhat increased in amount. September 2d. After leaving the house she went into lodgings, having been placed by Dr Bennett under Dr Handyside’s care. The fluid gradually accumulated again, and for the last three days has rendered respiration difficult. Yesterday, paracentesis was