26 flaps might have united by the first intention, and the stump might have remained well lor a short time,—but there can be no doubt that tho latter inevitably would havo early become one mass of malignant disease, as this would have soon increased with renewed vigour in the diseased portion of the divided bone, thus left be- hind,—would have soon extended to, and seized on, the surround- ing soft parts,—and, after involving the integument, would have protruded as a bloody fungus, so as to have carried off the patient more speedily, after all the dangers he had escaped, than if the ori- ginal tumour had been left unmolested. No doubt the disease did return in the stump after all, but this appears scarcely attributable to part of the tumour or of the local disease having been left behind, as is shown by its having first oc- curred in a distant part, and only subsequently in the stump itself; whereas, had the operation of amputation through the trochanters been performed, the local disease would never have been eradicat- ed, and the stump must have been the first part in which the dis- ease would have shown itself,—certainly ere many weeks had elapsed,—and in a more severe form than before. The preference was therefore evidently to be given to the opera- tion of disarticulation at the hip-joint, as by it only could the local disease be entirely removed. In arriving at such a determination in similar cases, the surgeon must, of course, keep in view the hazards which attend such a se- rious operation; though, at the same time, the dangers attending it, as compared with amputation through the trochanters, or at the upper fifth of the thigh, have been, I believe, much over-rated. Indeed, many of the fatal results which have followed its perform- ance, have not been due to the fact, that this operation in parti- cular had been performed, but to other causes. Previously to the present instance, the operation had been per- formed, I believe, in about fifty cases, of which sixteen were at- tended by complete success. A few only of these successful cases occurred in Britain; and the only l’ecorded instance in Scotland, where the operation has been attended with final success, is one which was performed by Dr Macfarlane of Glasgow, on account ot extensive injury of the left thigh, with compound fracture below the trochanters, occurring in a child only two years of age.1 k' The patient is now a stout and active girl.”2 There are published other cases, however, in which it cannot be said that the patients died from the operation, as they sur- vived its first effects, but were carried oft by diseases apparently unconnected with it. Six in number of such cases have been related, only one of which occurred in Scotland, being in the prac- tice of Professor Syme, and where the patient lived till the com- 1 See London Medical Gazette, vol. ix., p. 231. 5 Extract from a private letter from Dr Macfarlane to Dr Handysulo.