o tion was to-day performed by Dr Handyside in the theatre of the hospital:— The sequestrum not having yielded to moderate traction with strong forceps, an incision several inches in length was, with a strong scalpel, made down to the new bone, in the direction of the sequestrum. The soft parts were then dissected a little to each side, and the incision was carried through the substitute bone, down to the sequestrum, which being again seized with the forceps, now readily yielded to strong evulsive force, exerted in a rotatory man- ner. The operator then, placing firmly a hand on each portion of the still bent thigh, proceeded to undo the distortion, by re-bending the substitute, which had been felt during the previous steps of the operation to be as yet soft and pliable, and which now yielded to moderate and continued extension. The hemorrhage from the incision, though profuse, was now ar- rested by the application of cold, and a strip of dry lint having been inserted into the upper angle of the wound, a bandage was next applied. The patient being then put to bed, the limb was placed on a double inclined plane, with the view of effecting gradually still greater extension, and also as the knee-joint still remained semi- bent and stiff. An opiate was given, and ordered to be repeated at night.—To have only the common diet of the hospital. Jan. 3. She expresses herself much easier since the operation, having slept more soundly than usual. So much of the wound as has not healed by adhesion, granulates kindly ; and the limb, both at the seat of the operation and at the knee-joint, is becoming daily more straight, from the gradual extension, made by means of the MTntyre splint. An opening was made to-day to evacuate matter which had formed in the upper third of the thigh. 13th. There has been some constitutional disturbance for the last two days. Free dilatation of the above-mentioned opening was therefore to-day made, and was followed by the escape of much matter. 15th. Doing well; appetite improving.—To have steak diet; and two grains of quinine daily. Feb. 1. The wound, which was healing rapidly, has assumed a phagedoenic appearance.—Intermit the steak and tonics ; a poultice to be applied; and to have four grains of Dover's powder twice daily. lOtfA. The above symptoms have declined. Matter flows freely from the openings.—To have steak, and three ounces of ivine daily. March 1. A wooden splint along the outside of the limb was substituted for the double inclined plane. She is now to rise, and take exercise with the assistance of crutches. April 1. The symmetry of the limb is much improved. A starch bandage to be applied, now that the swelling is diminished. The discharge from the openings has almost wholly ceased. 29</t. The thigh is now only slightly bent outwards, the limb being thereby shortened about an inch. She walks with the ankle- joint partially extended, as in talipes equinus, resting the weight on