63 Description of the tumours removed. The tumour which involved the left ovary on being removed weighed nine pounds and a half. It was of an oval form, and measured thirteen inches in its longest, and nine inches and a half in its shortest diameter. Its envelope was composed of white, dense, and glistening fibrous tissue, having upon its external sur- face patches of various sizes, resembling chronic lymph. On its ante- rior surface might be seen openings, or ulcerations, varying in size. The edges of these ulcerations were smooth and rounded, and of the same thickness as the fibrous envelope. The cut surface, which had been near the ligature, now presented a large opening into the tumour, through which numerous cysts, varying in size from a pea to that of a billiard ball, protruded. The incision into it, made during the operation, had opened up one of these cysts about the size of a cocoa nut. Dr Bennett and Dr Handyside sent the tumour to the Univer- sity Museum, where Mr Goodsir was forming a collection of these growths. By him it was minutely injected, and afterwards cut up, in order to show its internal structure. In dividing it, some of the internal cysts were found to be full of pus, whilst others contained the usual glairy fluid, common to these tumours. Three preparations were made from this tumour, which may be seen in the museum, and which demonstrate the following facts. ls£. A portion of the fibrous sac, showing the attachment of numerous cysts varying in size and shape. A minute injection has been thrown into the arteries ? and exhibits how richly the walls of the internal cysts are supplied with blood-vessels. One of these cysts, about the size of a small hen’s egg, has its upper half fully injected, whilst the lower half is pale. The margin be- tween the two is uneven but abrupt, and from the creamy and distended appearance of the cyst, there can be no doubt that it is full of pus. 2d. A portion of the fibrous sac, showing the incision which separated the tumour from its attachments. The opening is of an irregular form, about three inches in its longest diameter. 3d. A portion of the fibrous sac, showing the ulcerated open- ings fonnerly described. The left ovary was about the size of a walnut. It was formed externally of a dense fibrous capsule, and internally of several small cysts. The natural stroma of the organ had entirely dis- appeared. Remarks by Dr Bennett. The question 1 have frequently asked myself is, was I warrant-