12 aitheris nitrosi. %ss; aquas acetatis ammonias 5j; Misce.—Of this he is to take a teaspoonful every hour in a little water. 12th. The respirations are easy and natural; tongue dry and brown; bowels open ; the pulse remains as before; and the mouth and fauces are red and tender.—Continue the same care and treat- ment, and let him have in addition a gargle. \3th. To-day he has the usual symptoms of mild bronchitis. The wound has been kept carefully from exposure to the air, by a napkin applied round the neck. The ward also has been kept at as equable a temperature as possible. Air has had ingress by the wound, only when the dressings were being changed.—To be cup- ped between the shoulders to six ounces; and a blister 6 inches by 4 to be applied to the left hypochondrium, where he complains chiefly of pain. 14th. He refused yesterday to be cupped ; but is to-day much re- lieved, from the application of the blister. He now expectorates thick mucus, both by the mouth, and by the wound in the neck. 7th. Another blister to be applied on the same part. The wound is granulating well;—the discharge from it is healthy. 20th. The bronchitic symptoms are entirely gone. The wound does not now communicate with the trachea, and is cicatrizing rapidly from within outwards. He has had no return of the dyspnoea. The tumour is evidently diminishing in size. June 1. The wound is now all but cicatrized, there remaining only a small granulating fissure. The Bronchocele is now so much diminished in size, that the line and form of the stemo-mastoid muscles, and of the trachea, are visi- ble ; and the usual depression, constituting the jugular fossa, exists, Discharged—cured. Case 2. Spasmodic Dyspnoea from the Introduction of Sand into the Pharynx and Larynx:—Tracheotomy :—Recovery. Margaret Campbell, aged 17, a servant, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary, under Dr Haudyside, near midnight, on June 4, 1844. On admission, she was suffering from severe and continued dysp- noea, which undenvent frequent exacerbations. It was stated by the medical gentlemen who accompanied the patient to the hospital, that, about an hour and a half previous to the time of her arrival there, a handful of sand was thrown into her mouth by a young boy, while she was speaking to him.