64 ed in proposing and urging others to perform the operation ? The reasons that induced me to do so were the following, 1st, The youth and good constitution of the patient. 2dly, The disease was rendering her life miserable, and she earnestly wished the operation to be performed. Sdhj, Death seemed unavoidable at no distant period. At least, it could not be anticipated that five gallons of fluid could be removed from the abdomen every three weeks, for any length of time, without injury to the vital powers. 4Ihly, Extirpation of the tumour appeared to be the only ra- tional means of cure. Again, on looking at the most recent statistics of the operation, published by Dr Atlee,* I found that abdominal section has been performed for ovarian tumours, real or supposed, 101 times. If we extract from this list cases where the operation was not completed, and those on the point of death before the operation was begun, we shall have ninety remaining, in all of which the tu- mour was excised. Of these sixty-two recovered and twenty-eight died. Thus, whatever may be thought of the correctness of the statistics, the broad fact still remains, that an ovarian tumour has been extracted from living women in sixty-two cases with perfect success. An acquaintance with the structure and mode of deve- lopment of these growths must convince us that the only other possible mode of cure is by rupture of the cyst, and then only under particular circumstances. This I shall endeavour to show in a separate paper. At present it need only be said that this is an occurrence ofextreme rarity, and yet, were we to be guided by the opi- nions ofthose surgeons who refuse to perform ovariotomy in any case, no other termination is to be expected, and the disease, notwith- standing the facts previously stated, is to be considered as irreme- diable by art. But every case must stand upon its own merits, and when all the circumstances of the one detailed are taken into consideration, the perfect diagnosis that was established, and the probability of a speedy fatal termination, (a probability after- wards rendered certain by the suppuration discovered to exist within the cysts), it must be granted that the operation, if admis- sible at all, was so in this instance. An important practical question presents itself in regard to the treatment after the operation, on which there is a difference of opinion among the practitioners who witnessed the case and dis- section, viz. how the cavity or pouch containing pus, between the uterus and rectum, and the sinus leading from it up to the dia- phragm, were connected with the pressure made on the abdomen by the many-tailed bandages and compresses, in order to direct the * American Journ. of the Med. Sciences, April 1(145.