47 1 p. m. Complains of great tormina and restlessness. R Bismuthi Alii 5ss.; Olei Anisi m. iij. ; M. et divide in pit. vi. One of which she is to have every three hours. 6 p. m. She has had since last report twro copious feculent stools. She is now irritable and restless; skin dry ; tongue furred ; expression anxious. Let her have three grains of genuine James’ powder with two grains of calomel. 9. p. M. Pulse and general condition as before. There is now tenderness of the abdomen, which is elicited by pressure over the iliac regions. This was the first symptom of local inflammatory action. Twenty-four leeches were ordered to be applied,—and after the bleeding lether have gr. iij. of the Pidv. Jacobi Ver. and gr. i. of opium in pill, which is to be continued till the pain is abated and the frequency of the pulse diminished. 11th, 9 a. m. The leeches bled well last night. One of the pills was given, and in addition, two grains of solid opium during the night. After the bleeding she felt relieved, and she has pass- ed a tolerable night; pulse 130, but softer; respirations 35, easy and full ; skin moist ; iliac region still the seat of pain though less than before. Twenty leeches to be applied, after which let her have three grains of genuine James’s powder, with half a grain of opium, which is to be repeated at noon. To allay thirst let her have some soda water with raspberry vinegar for drink. 2 p. m. Leeches bled freely, and she feels again relieved. The remaining sutures were removed, and union by the first intention is found to have taken place throughout. Discharge from around the ligatures free. Had milk and tea with rusk to breakfast, and to have broth for dinner. 9 p. m. Pulse 128 ; respirations 22. 12th, 9 a. xi. Has had three of the opiate pills. Slept seve- ral hours towards morning ; starts during her sleep, and awakes unrefreshed ; pulse 120 ; tongue covered with whitish fur ; skin warm and moist ; wound discharges small sloughs of a blackish colour amongst the pus. 9. p. xr. Pulse 120. Has had two opium pills during the day. She has slept occasionally. Bowels not open. To have half an ounce of the electuary of senna, and afterwards the yolk of a soft boiled egg. 13th, 9 a. m. Has passed a pretty good night. Bowels not yet moved, but she had an enema of warm water, which has just come away, but without bringing any faeces with it. Pulse 116 : tongue cleaner. To have half an ounce of castor oil. 9 p. xi. Has had five bilious stools since the castor oil was given. Feels much relieved. Has had beef-tea for dinner-