61 otherwise healthy. The anterior half of the inferior lobe also emphysematous, with here and there indurated patches of chronic lobular pneumonia. The posterior half of this lobe was splenifi- ed throughout, as in the opposite lung. The lining membrane of the bronchi was healthy, here and there covered with mucus. Both lungs were small in volume. The heart was small and pale. Its right cavities contained a firm dark coagulum. The valves and structure of the organ healthy. In the aorta there was a small but firm coagulum, partly decolorized. Abdomen.—On reflecting the walls of the abdomen, a few chronic bands of lymph were torn through, uniting the opposite portions of peritoneum. The line of incision was firmly united ex- cept at its lower end, where a round opening existed about the size of a pea. On the peritoneal surface the union was marked by a dark blackish line, which was perfectly smooth and free from lymph. The omentum was thin and transparent, destitute of fat, and stretched tightly over the intestines. Its inferior margin ad- hered strongly to the visceral and parietal peritoneum, about an inch above the pubic bones. The omentum was cut through transversely about its middle, and the intestines below exposed, which were greatly distended with gas. These were found to be portions of the ileum, the coils of which were more or less adhe- rent to each other, to the mesentery, omentum, and to the neighbour- ing organs by bands of chronic lymph. The adhesions were now care- fully torn through, the gut liberated and traced downwards. Ex- actly five feet and a half from the caecum, above and to the left of the umbilicus, the intestine was constricted by a band of lymph, as if a ligature had been tied round it. Above the constriction the gut was distended to about the size of the wrist; below, it was collapsed to the size of the little finger. Air could be pressed from the superior portion into the inferior, but the passage of water poured from above was completely checked at the seat of stricture. All the intestines above the stricture were greatly dis- tended with gas ; those below it, including the caecum, colon, and rectum, were small and collapsed. The cavity of the pelvis was blocked up, and separated from the general cavity of the abdomen by firm adhesions between the surfaces of the abdominal walls, the omentum, and knuckles of intestine. The peritoneum in this place, and especially in the left iliac hollow, was covered with a dense layer of chronic lymph. This lymph was about one-eighth of an inch in thickness, of a dirty greenish colour, mixed with black pigmentary matter, of great hardness to the feel, and cut under the knife like cartilage. With some trouble the united knuckles of intestine, and portions