13 Some of the sand accordingly entered the pharynx and larynx, and soon afterwards she became suddenly affected with dyspnoea and violent cough. Since then, she had had continued dyspnoea, with frequent exacerbations; and the latter are becoming on each accession more severe. As the patient was now almost in a state of suffocation, and no adequate obstruction was found by the finger in the mouth or about the glottis, the resident clerk (Dr Fleming,) had immediate re- course to tracheotomy. No unlooked-for difficulties occurred dur- ing the operation,—a few particles of sand were discharged through the wound, before the tube was introduced,—and immediately there- after the patient felt greatly relieved. June 5, 9 a. m. She has passed a good night, having slept well.— An ounce of the following mixture luas ordered to he taken every third hour:—R. Sol. mur. morph. 5ss; vini antimonii gss ; mis- turce camphorce giv. Misce. At noon. She continues to breath partially by the mouth and nares, but chiefly through the tube. When the latter is closed by the finger, there is considerable dyspnoea. She expectorates freely by the tube, which is regularly emptied of the mucus, that would otherwise accumulate in it. Pulse rather quick, but otherwise natural.—To have the above mixture every second hour. 4 P. M. She complains of pain, of an inflammatory character, in the larynx.—Twelve leeches to he applied over the larynx. June 6, 10 A. M. She has passed a restless night. The symptoms of acute laryngitis became more marked this morning, there being- acute pain in the larynx, with the usual signs of inflammatory fever. —She vjas accordingly hied from the arm to 24 ounces. At noon. The pulse has become more frequent, but is now small and compressible.—The tube has now been removed, and she breathes easily by the mouth and nares. There is no oedema of the glottis. —She was ordered to take one of the following powders every 6th hour: R. Calomelanos, pidv. Jacobi veri, dd gr.iij. Misce. Fiat pulvis.—The mixture ordered yesterday was intermitted. 7th. She breathes easily by the mouth.—Continue the powders. Sth. Pulse 112, small, and weak. Perspiration profuse. The mouth has now become affected by the mercury. The wound is granulating well, under the tepid water dressing. She still complains of pain in the larynx.—Tivelve leeches to be applied aver the larynx, and the powders to be intermitted. 12th. The pain in the larynx is now gone, but there is superficial pain and swelling in the hyoid and submental regions. She has occasional cough, and still expectorates a little mucus by the natural passage. The wound is healing rapidly.—Continue the water dressing, and let a. poultice be applied below the chin and, rami of the lower jaw. Judy 1. Since last report the patient has progressed favourably.