43 external wound. A large quantity of the glairy fluid then escap- ed, which occasioned some delay. Through this opening Dr Handyside now introduced two of his fingers, in order to ascer- tain that no adhesions existed on the anterior surface of the tu- mour. None being felt, the wound was now dilated upwards for other three inches. This was done with a probe-pointed bis- toury, which was guided by two fingers introduced into the abdo- men. Through this opening Dr Handyside now introduced his whole hand, in order to ascertain whether the tumour was adhe- rent at any part of its surface. The hand was passed over, around, and down to the pedicle of the tumour, and the latter was found to be attached only by its pedicle, which was felt to be small. The operation was therefore proceeded with. From the size of the tumour it was evident that a large opening was required for its removal. Accordingly, the wound was extended upwards to ra- ther more than midway between the umbilicus and the ensiform cartilage, and downwards to within two inches of the symphy- sis pubis,—the probe-pointed bistoury being employed as be- fore. In dilating upwards, the umbilicus was avoided, the incision passing to the left side of it. Through the large opening the fundus of the tumour now presented, and the charge of it was committed to Professor Simpson, who drew it gently outwards. At this time, as well as before and after, care was taken to pre- vent protrusion of the intestines. This was done by Mr Good- sir, who, with both hands, pressed the edges of the wound down- wards and backwards against the intestines and from the tumour. On the anterior aspect and fundus of the tumour were now ob- served several round smooth-edged apertures, through which some of the glairy fluid was seen to escape, being of the same character as that which had flowed from the peritoneal cavity, but rather more viscid in consistence. One of these openings was dilated with a bistoury, which allowed of the escape of a large quantity of the glairy fluid. This had the desired effect of diminishing con- siderably the size of the tumour. The pedicle of the tumour was next examined, and it was found to consist of the left broad ligament of the uterus, somewhat elongated and enlarged, but not altered in texture. The uterus was seen to be of normal size, though of a rose-red colour, and to be unconnected with the tu- mour, except through the medium of the ligament. The pedicle of the tumour being now put on the stretch by exerting slight traction on the latter, a strong curved needle, in a fixed handle, and carrying a strong double ligature, was passed through its middle. The double end of the ligature being divided, each half was tied separately, so that each included one-half of the pedicle. Some delay was occasioned by the difficulty experienced in tying the ligatures, as the elasticity of the part included caused the first