40 fundus of the uterus was raised above the brim of the pelvis, where it was distinctly felt presenting its obtuse, rounded, natural form. The Professor stated his opinion that the tumour was connected to the left ovary by a narrow pedicle. Urine ten ounces. 19th. The examination of yesterday was followed by great pain. She described this as being “ tremendous,” and seated in the back. The nurse says she cried out as a woman in labour. About two and a half hours afterwards a draught containing one drachm of so- lution of morphia was given. It relieved the pain, but it con- tinued until lip. m. An anodyne and ether draught was then given, which was immediately rejected by vomiting. Since the examination the vomiting has been more urgent; everything taken has been brought up en masse, and there is still dull pain on pressing deeply into the right hypochondriac and iliac regions. Urine sixteen ounces. The powders were stopped. She was directed to take three times daily one ounce of a mixture consisting of one drachm of medicinal naphtha, three drachms of tincture of foxglove, three of spirit of nitrous ether, and five ounces of water. 20th. Urine twelve ounces. 21st. Urine ten ounces ; still complains of vomiting. Seven leeches were applied to the epigastric region. 22d. Leeches bled well; vomiting continues ; it comes on now ten minutes after taking meals, but sometimes sooner; it is more quickly excited when fluid is taken than when solid food only is swallowed ; for the last eight months has had occasional vomiting, and since entering the house it has become more frequent and continued ; no pain on pressure of the epigastrium ; the stomach is much distended with air; there is frequent eructation of gas in considerable quantity; twenty ounces of urine passed since yester- day’s visit.; the fluid in the abdomen is again increasing; the tu- mour can be felt very moveable ; it can be pushed freely from one side of the abdomen to the other, and seems only attached by a long pedicle ; considerable pain in back. Continue powder. U Pulv. Opii gr. ij.; Creosoti. gtt. ij. Ext. Taraxaci q. s. Ft. pil. ii. 1. h. s et post hor. vj. si opus sit. 23d. No vomiting yesterday after the visit. Complains of pain in the back and some cephalalgia. Passed thirty-six ounces of urine. A plaster of extract of belladonna was applied. 24th. Urine eighteen ounces; presents a more copious sedi- ment of urate of ammonia; it is high coloured. Acid reaction on litmus ; copious orange-coloured sediment, which is dissolved on addition of heat or nitric acid ; no vomiting. 25th. Urine twelve ounces. 26th. Urine eighteen ounces. 27th. Urine twenty-four ounces. 28th. Urine sixteen ounces.