27 mencement of the eighth week from the operation, but then died from ascites.1 The remaining cases were unsuccessful, as the patients died either some hours, or at least some days, after the operation. These occurred chiefly in military practice. In most of them the operation was undertaken for severe injuries, from gun-shot wounds, of the upper third of the thigh and trochanteric region; and in many of which the patients would, in all probability, have sunk from the extent of the shock and original injury, although the re- moval of the shattered limbs with the head and neck of the bone had not been attempted.2 Taking, then, even the statistics of the results of the cases where the operation has been performed, we see that one-third of the patients have recovered completely. This, however, is by no means a correct method by which to form our conclusions in regard to the operation ; as the deaths in some of the unsuccessful cases were clearly attributable to causes unconnected with the operation, and occurred a considerable time after it. Moreover, in many of those cases in which death occurred not long after the operation, the surgeon felt called on to remove the shattered bone by disarticula- tion, notwithstanding that the patients were previously so much enfeebled by the injury, that the chance of success was but small. To these considerations, it may be also added, that in almost all the cases in which the operation has been undertaken, death was otherwise expected speedily to ensue. It is commonly believed, that this operation is in itself much more severe and dangerous than that of amputation through the trochanters, or at the upper fifth of the thigh; but the difference between them is not so great as might at first sight appear. The flaps formed, the vessels divided, and surface exposed, are nearly the same in both; whereas in the former, the operation is much more easily and more rapidly executed, and the removal of a few inches more of the bone is attended with less shock and danger to the patient, than is the division of the bone by the saw, in its trochanteric region. Lastly, any greater fatality which may have followed the former, is due to the fact that the cases in which it has been performed have been much more complicated and dan- gerous, as well as more hopeless, than those in which the latter- operation has been practised. The superiority, also, of the opera- tion of disarticulation, in a case of disease of the bone, where there is suspicion of the upper end being affected,—as in the case which has given rise to these remarks,—is sufficiently evident. In regard to the easiest, safest, and best method of performing an operation of such magnitude and importance as Amputation at the Hip-joint, surgeons are not as yet entirely agreed. Very many 1 See Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, vol. xx., p. 25. 3 See Velpeau’s Elements de Mddecinc Opdratoire, 1832,