GG about three weeks ; and this was not a case similar to those de- scribed by Martineau, Portal, and others, which “ amply attest the protracted duration of life in association even with this stage of the affection.11 But there are other important conditions which must coexist with the above requirement in order to warrant the step of a capital operation, such as that of ovariotomy. These are, secondly,—the establishing a clear diagnosis in a proposed case of ovariotomy, so as to determine accurately that the tumour is not malignant or of solid consistence, that it presents no serious adhesions, and that the uterus is not involved. Thirdly,—that there is no hope of a palliative cure, or of a spontaneous declension in the severity of the urgent symptoms. Fourthly,—that there is no co-existent disease or condition of the system such as contra- indicates capital operations in general. Fifthly,—that the patient and her relatives, on being made acquainted with the danger at- tending the operation, express their urgent request for its perform- ance. Sixthly,—as to the statistics of the operation, I refer to the Edin. Med. and Surg. Journ. for April 1844, and to the Monthly Journal of Medical Science for February and May 1845, and January 184-6; although these are by no means unfavourable as argument for its performance, still I would not make use of them as such, for these reasons: First,—that many cases in which the operation had been most recklessly and unjustifiably performed are included in these tables, which have thus perverted the statis- tical results, and made the operation appear in a less favourable light; and, Secondly,—because surgical statistics in general stand broadly forth against the performance of many universally recog- nised capital operations, for instance, some of the larger amputa- tions, &c. I am no advocate for the operation in cases such as those in which it has been generally had recourse to. Like many other surgeons, I had been previously prejudiced against and averse from the operation, (which aversion was in no degree lessened by the circumstance, that some Edinburgh surgeons had previously refrained from undertaking the operation in the present case); but, after a careful examination of the subject, I was forced to the con- clusion, that it is the duty of the surgeon, in certain rare cases, to recommend and to practise the operation, and the case submitted to my care appeared to be one of those. This view I adopted only after having been informed of the opinion of those of my pro- fessional brethren versant in obstetric diagnosis, who concluded along with myself, that the tumour was non-adherent throughout; —that it was attached only by an elongated pedicle, the broad li- gament;—that the uterus and peritoneum generally were healthy; —and that the fluid in the abdomen was either the result of the