18 as well as from the reduced state of the patient’s system, the mat- ter was diffused in tho cellular tissue, the usual barrier of lymph being absent. A free incision was therefore made as soon as sup- puration seemed to have occurred, not only in order to evacuate matter which had already formed, but to prevent the formation of more, and the farther destruction of texture which would otherwise have resulted. III. ON AMPUTATION AT THE IIIP-JOINT. Case of Osteo-Medullary Sarcoma of the Os Femoris, for which Amputation at the Hip-joint was successfully performed:—with Observations. John Wright, aged 13, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary, under Dr Handyside, on 13th June 1843, with an extensive tu- mour of the left thigh-bone. On examination, the thigh was found to be much enlarged, especially at its middle, whence it tapered gradually towards each extremity. The tumour was hard and inelastic, connected evidently with the os femoris, and it occupied about the three middle fifths of that bone, leaving its extremities of nearly the normal size. Its surface was smooth and regular, and over it the muscles and other soft parts could be moved freely. The integument over the disease presented a some- what glistening appearance, but was not discoloured; and beneath it there appeared some faint blue lines, indicating distension of the superficial veins. The tumour was the seat of acute, darting pain, which became increased towards night, and also underwent, occa- sionally, severe exacerbations. The lymphatic glands of the groin, and of the rest of the body, were carefully examined, and found not to be enlarged or otherwise affected. The motions of the hip-joint were perfect, and were performed without giving rise to pain. The limb below' the knee was much emaciated. The countenance of the patient was sallow', and had an anxious appearance; and his tongue w'as of a bright red colour. His body generally was not much emaciated; and his health appeared on the whole to be good. Previous history.—Six years since, he had an attack of scarlatina, on recovering from which, the left thigh remained weaker than the other, and appeared also to be smaller in size. For this, the part had been rubbed frequently with various ointments. He continued to go about, othenvise quite well, till about six months ago, when, during the night, he was suddenly seized with violent pain in the thigh. Poultices were next applied to the affected part, and after- w'ards sinapisms, and a few leeches ; but under this treatment, the thigh increased rapidly in size. Since then, the tumour has