45 was then placed in bed, a dry blanket having been previously wrapped round the thighs and pelvis. The patient bore the ope- ration well. At one time she felt faint, but syncope never oc- curred, so that no stimuli were given. The pulse never sunk be- low SO, but remained most of the time between 90 and 100. The operation occupied in all about forty minutes. Fifteen of these were occupied in the preliminary incision, examination and re- moval of the large tumour,—five in the removal of the small one, and twenty in sponging out the pelvis, introducing the sutures, and applying the compresses, straps, and the many-tailed roller. September 5th,* 1^ p. m. Pulse 60. To have one drachm of the solution of muriate of morphia. 3 p. m. Pulse 90, and of good strength. 4 p. m. Pulse 90, and full. She complains of acute pain of abdomen. To have two grains of solid opium in pill. 5 p. m. Pulse 100, and full. To have another grain of opium. 9 p. m. Pulse 100, and soft. The pain of abdomen now ceased on her being turned in bed. Eight ounces of urine with- drawn by the catheter, several ounces having been passed at 5 p. m. 12 p. m. Pulse 100. She complains of thirst. She has had no sleep as yet. To have one drachm of the solution of muriate of morphia. 6th, 1 a. m. She complains of sickness, and has made some efforts to vomit. For this a drop of hydrocyanic acid was given. 8 a. M. She has had some more vomiting. The fluid vomited is thin, and of a green colour. No sleep as yet. To have half a drachm of the solution of muriate of morphia. 10 a. m. She has lain in a drowsy condition during the night, but has had no sleep. Pulse 122, of moderate size, and soft; tongue rather dry ; less pain of abdomen. Four ounces of urine withdrawn, some having been passed during the night. 2 p. m. Pulse 134, full, but soft. Complains of difficulty of breathing, from a feeling of constriction of the chest. 9 p.m. Pulse 148, full, and rather strong. Difficulty of breath- ing increased. Pain of abdomen less. She was now bled from the arm until the pulse became soft and compressible. She was bled in the recumbent posture, and twenty ounces were taken. After the bleeding the breathing became easy. Was ordered twenty drops of black drop. lip. m. Pulse 160, small and vibrating. She has passed urine twice during the day. 7th, 9 a. m. She has had some hours sleep towards morning. Passed urine freely during the night. Pulse 130. 2 p. m. Pulse 140. She has as yet taken no nourishment since the operation, except a little warm coffee. To have some warm * Froni ti i, lime up to the loth the case was treated in consultation.by Drs Handy- side, Bennet?, J. Y. Simpson, W. Campbell, and Messrs Crabbe and Goodsir.