28 different methods have been proposed and practised, but these may be referred to three principal methods, with their modifications ; excluding that by the circular incision, which was recommended and even practised by Mr Abernethy. It is also almost unneces- sary to notice the old preliminary practice of securing by ligature the common femoral artery, as adopted by Baron Larrey, this being now superseded by compression, effected by the fingers of an assistant. First, There is the method of making directly lateral flaps by transfixion, and cutting from within outwards; the disarticula- tion being effected between the formation of the flaps, as practised by Larrey,—the internal flap being first formed. This method has been varied by different surgeons. Thus, Langenbeck reverses the order of forming the flaps, by beginning with the external; and Dupuytren begins with the formation of the internal flap, by cut- ting from without inwards. Secondly, The method by the forma- tion of postero-external and antero-internal flaps, effected also by transfixion, and then cutting from within outwards, beginning with the external flap, but leaving the disarticulation till the end. This method is practised and recommended by Lisfranc, and has been followed by Mr Syme. It has also been varied by cutting from without inwards. Thirdly, The formation of antero-posterior flaps, the disarticulation being effected after the formation of the anterior flap. The anterior flap is derived partly from the inner side of the thigh, and the posterior one partly from its outer side. The last described method was practised by various surgeons, so far back as the year 1806, but in such a manner as not to have been generally adopted by subsequent operators, the anterior flap having been made of great length, and the posterior one cut very short. An improvement on this method, adopted by Mr Liston, is that which was followed in the present instance. As to which of these methods the prefei’ence should be accorded, the surgeon must be guided principally by the nature of the case. However, when circumstances will allow of it, the antero-posterior flap method,—just adverted to, and as described in the early part of this narrative,—will be found, I believe, to be the preferable one. The vessels divided are the same, and they are more easily secured than when the surfaces exposed are lateral,—the flaps are of more equal dimensions, and lie afterwards more accurately in apposition, —the articulation is more rapidly reached, and is exposed at a more favourable part for being opened,—the head of the bone is more easily dislocated, and the division of the ligaments more easily effected;—the removal, too, of the limb is completed with one instrument only,—and, finally, by this method the whole opera- ration can be much more easily and rapidly completed, than by practising any of the other methods. For these reasons, therefore, I would recommend the adoption of this mode, of performing the operation of Amputation at the Hip-joint. (To be continued.)