50 still took two ounces of roast mutton with bread for dinner. Bowels thrice opened during the day; pulse 120. To have a grain of opium. Tiie remainder of the Case is reported Dr Bennett. October 3d,* 2 p. m. Dr Bennett on again taking charge of the patient found her pulse 120, weak; the discharge from the wound copious and foetid ; considerable diaphoresis and diarrhoea, the bowels having been open four times since last night’s visit; and with loss of appetite. To have half an ounce of wine every two hours until the evening. 9 p. m. Has taken the wine regularly. Face somewhat flushed ; pulse 112, of greater force; appetite improved; bowels open twice since morning visit. When she coughs air is sucked in, and forced out of the wound during expiration and inspiration. She feels the ligatures gnawing. On pulling the right ligature gently it cameaway together with a slough about three inches long, and the diameter of a crow quill. A quantity of pus followed, but no blood. The end of the ligature embraced the two loops which enclosed the halves of the pedicle. Immediately after the dressing the pulse was counted to be 132; ten minutes after it sunk to 114. This is the twenty-ninth day after the operation. To have a grain of opium. Omit wine. 4th, Notwithstanding the pill had a restless night. Dis- charge from wound abundant; pulse 132, weak; no appetite; bowels open four times during the morning; cough less trouble- some. Considerable morning perspirations. Percussion of the chest every where good. No rales could be detected any where. Respirations short; chest not fully expanded. Infcriorly and posteriorly the inspiratory murmur is harsh, and the expiratory murmur is prolonged over the whole chest. Vocal resonance clearer than usual on the right side. Heart’s action fluttering. To have a dessert spoonful of wine every two hours. Rice pudding with one egg. At night a dessert spoonful of castor oil. 5th, 2 p. m. Passed a tolerable night. Has taken wine regu- larly. Vomited the castor oil last night. Bowels have been open twice this morning. At present she complains of the cough, which causes her much pain in the seat of the ligature. The dis- charge from wound is abundant; pulse 140, soft; tongue clean ; respirations hurried. Continue wine. 9 p. m. Dr Alison was invited to meet Dr Bennett and Dr Spittal in consultation, and he saw the patient at this visit. Bowels open five times since the morning; stools loose and fe- culent, with streaks of mucus floating in them; pulse 130, * Dr Handyside at this period went into the country, leaving the farther surgical treatment of the case to Dr Struthers.