62 of omentum involved were separated and drawn out. A cavity was thus exposed, about the size of an orange, situated between the uterus and rectum, lined throughout by the same dense, chronic lymph spoken of above. The anterior surface of the uterus was firmly united to the bladder by chronic adhesions. On the right side about one inch of the Fallopian tube and broad ligament re- mained, the extremities of which were closely united to the ante- rior wall of the cavity. On the left side the margins of the uterus and short pedicle of the broad ligament were so united to the walls of the cavity that they could not be separated. This cavity or pouch between the uterus and rectum communicated with the external opening, and was evidently the place where the pus dur- ing life had accumulated. A sinus opened into it superiorly, which on being traced upwards was seen to extend, above the de- scending colon, between the peritoneum and intestines as high as the diaphragm on the left side, where it terminated in a cul de sac, the size of a hen’s egg. The sinus was about the size of the little finger, and lined throughout by the same dense, greenish lymph formerly noticed. The cul de sac was full of dirty-yellow offen- sive pus, and bounded by a portion of the stomach and left lobe of the liver internally ; the diaphragm above and posteriorly ; and the colon and spleen externally and inferiorly. It also was lined with dense chronic lymph. The mucous membrane of the stomach and small intestines were healthy. The latter contained a clayey coloured soft feculent mat- ter. The large intestines were empty. No appearance of in- flammation existed at the constricted part. The internal surface of the rectum, extending seven inches from the anus, was intensely vascular, thickened, and inflamed. Six ulcers, varying in size from a sixpence to that of a shilling, were scattered over the dis- eased part of the gut, one of the largest being only an inch from its extremity. They were round in shape, and covered with a raised dirty greenish slough. The live?', kidneys, and spleen were anemic, but healthy in struc- ture. The femoral arid saphena veins could be felt hard and distend- ed below the integuments. On dissection, these, as well as the external iliac vein, up to the point where it passed under the layer of lymph, in the left iliac hollow formerly described, were found to be obstructed by a coagulum of blood. This coagulum was adherent to the internal wall of the vessel, was partially de- colorized, and of the consistence of soft cheese. This obstruc- tion of the vessels ceased about three inches below Pouparts li- gament.