21 fallen to 128. At noon, the pulse ranged between 140 and 150. The catarrhal symptoms are now gone. Sd. Pulse from 130 to 140. The tongue is natural; and the bowels have been freely opened. §th. Since last report he has continued much in the same condi- tion. His food has been light and farinaceous, and he has been al- lowed various cooling drinks. He has had opiates administered from time to time, and the boicels have been f reely opened by an enema. The stump has been Jcept cool and moist by cold applications, frequently changed. To-day the stump was dressed for the first time. Union by the first intention has taken place, except at three places where this was prevented by the ends of the ligatures. Two of the sutures were removed. A small quantity of pus was discharged at the parts al- ready mentioned, where primary union had been prevented. There was no hemorrhage. The tepid icater dressing to be applied to the stump. 12th. Since last report, the pulse has ranged between 110 and 120. After an enema—several of which have been given, containing assafcctida—he passed a large lumbricus. Three more sutures were removed to-day. The ligatures were tried gently, but all of them remained fast. There is some discharge from around the ligatures. Otherwise the stump is quite solid and free from pain. His appetite remains good, and his food consists chiefly of por- ridge and milk. It would be tedious to give the farther details of this case :—suf- fice it therefore to state, that the patient remained in the hospital till the 5th of August, during which time every thing advanced favourably. His diet during this time was chiefly farinaceous, with a little steak and wine occasionally; but these were discontinued, as they did not agree with him. His general health and appetite continued to improve daily; and during the last ten days that he remained in the hospital, he had an occasional airing in the grounds. The discharge from around the remaining ligatures continued healthy in character, and moderate in quantity, and the stump it- self became firm, and continued free from pain. On the oth of August, six weeks after the operation, he left the hospital, but remained in the immediate neighbourhood of Edin- burgh till the 11th of September. Soon after leaving the hospital he complained of occasional frontal headach, which was followed by pain in the left orbit and eyeball, with increased sensibility to light, and lachrymation. About the middle of August also, a small chronic abscess formed over the occiput. Towards the beginning of Septem- ber the pain in the eye and orbital region diminished; and he took exercise on crutches in the open air daily, using also the stump freely by sitting on it. On the 11 th of September he left the neighbourhood of Edinburgh