9 4* The shaft of the os femoris appeared as if fractured near its mid- dle. The upper end of the lower half projected through an open- ing in the soft parts to the extent of above two inches. The upper part of the thigh bone was in its normal position, but felt much thickened, and the soft parts over it were much swollen and indu- rated. A dark-coloured cicatrix existed over the. inner condyle. The projecting portion of bone was destitute of periosteum, smooth and dark-coloured on the surface; rough and spicular at the extremity. Its medullary canal was hollowed out, and continu- ally discharged feetid pus; and, when handled, it appeared to be firmly connected with the lower half of the shaft of the os femoris. The patient had no power over the hip and knee joints, but could move the foot and toes freely. The knee-joint allowed of passive motion to a limited extent, and the pain thence arising was referred to the middle of the thigh. Previous history.—Exactly nine months before being brought to the hospital, she was awakened during the night by a violent pain in the left thigh, which was soon followed by swelling. For this she could assign no cause, except her having taken more exer- cise than usual the previous day, during which she had leant prin- cipally on the left leg, in consequence of some wound, or other tem- porary cause of lameness, of the right foot. Friction with vinegar cloths was assiduously applied for a fortnight over the painful part; but, as by this time the pain had become worse, it was then thought necessary to apply for medical advice. Twelve leeches were now applied, followed by hot fomentations : the latter were continued for two months. The pain, however, continued. Soon after this time, an opening formed spontaneously in the situation marked by the cicatrix before mentioned, and after a plentiful escape of matter, the pain somewhat subsided. Poultices were then applied. Two months ago the thigh began to bend, and quickly assumed its pre- sent position. This change was followed by constitutional disturb- ance, and great local pain and redness, which rapidly subsided, a month afterwards, on the protrusion of the bone through the inte- guments,—an occurrence which was also accompanied by a gush of matter. Before the pain in the thigh began, she had always been healthy, but since that time she has lost much flesh. Throughout the pro- gress of the disease she has suffered considerably from pain, sleep- lessness, and severe constitutional disturbance. Of late, also, she has had nocturnal sweatings, and loss of appetite. On admission she was in an emaciated state, the pulse 100, and rather weak, the tongue moist, and inclining to red, and the bowels open; but she had no diarrhoea. There is no pain in the limb, except when touched.—To have nourishing diet. Dec. 26. It having been resolved that an attempt should be made to remove the sequestrum and save the limb, the following opera- (VS5210