55 a<*o, and returned immediately, with much flatus and some small pieces of feculent matter. Uneasiness in abdomen has been re- lieved since. Had one of the calomel pills at 9 p. m. Pulse 100, of pretty good strength. Tobacco enema not given. Repeat the injection at 1 a. m., and again at 3 a. m., if bowels are not moved. Repeat calomel pills at 2 a. m. if requisite. 3d, 8 a. m. Slept occasionally during the night, and vomited twice. About 3 a. m. was very restless, threatening to get out of bed. Two injections have been given, also another pill, but no faeces have passed. At present countenance anxious ; and pulse 120, smaller ; tongue furred ; great thirst ; no appetite ; still distension of upper part of abdomen, especially the knuckle of intestine formerly mentioned. There is slight tenderness on pressure. Twelve leeches to be applied to the abdomen. Tobacco in- jection. 11 a. m.* The whole of tobacco injection, as formerly ordered, was not given. It was kept in ten minutes ; produced consider- rable collapse, with tremors and vomiting. Pulse now 120, small; great thirst ; swelling of abdomen somewhat diminished, and knuckle of intestine shifted higher up ; no tenderness. Tur- pentine embrocation to abdomen. Large warm water injection. R. Acid. Hydrocyan. gtt. xii.; Aquae giv.; M. §ss. every two hours. 8 p. m. Mixture has been given regularly, but always vomited shortly after. Some matters vomited immediately before this vi- sit have a distinctly feculent odour. Two large injections have been given, which have been returned without faeces. Expression of countenance flushed and febrile. Thirst continues ; pulse 140, of good strength. Still tympanitic swelling of upper part of abdomen, but more diffused ; the knuckles of intestine prominent. She is occasionally seized with spasmodic pains of abdomen, and then the knuckles of intestine become very prominent and tense. Slight discharge from wound. Dr Handyside passed a probe a short distance into the sinus, which brought away a little blood. Apply eight leeches to the abdomen, to be followed by warm fomentations. R. Gum. Opii gr. iss.; Calomel, gr. iij. Ft. pil. Injection with §j. of tincture of assafcetida. 4th, 8 a. m. Passed a restless night; rather quiet about 5 a. m. Vomited frequently till about 4 a. m. Leeches bled well. Com- plained last night for the first time of throbbing pain in the calf of left leg, and swelling of foot and ankle. To-day the whole limb is swollen as high as the groin, and a slight degree of indu- * Dr Handyside was now again invited to meet the other practitioners in atten- dance, a3 it appeared to them doubtful whether any part of these abdominal symp- toms depended on the state of the wounds.