30 Powerful escharotics were applied, after which the stump again be- came healthy; and the patient was dismissed, cured, on the 28th of May. Case 3. Amputation through the Leg. Recovery.—Caroline Hamil- ton, aged 18, was admitted on March 6, 1843, with disease of the left ankle-joint. The joint was stiff and immoveable, the soft parts around it were much thickened and swollen; over it there were se- veral ulcers, leading into sinuses, and also several unhealthy cica- trices. On passing the probe through the sinuses, the bones of the ankle-joint were found to be quite carious, and the lower extremity of the tibia seemed to be diseased for a short way above the ankle. The disease had existed for about twelve years, and the patient had formerly refused to submit to amputation when proposed to her in the Royal Infirmary by Mr Liston. She continued in the hos- pital under palliative treatment till the month of August, when she consented to submit to amputation. At first sight, the case appeared to be one fitted for the opera- tion at the ankle-joint, which had been performed some time pre- viously by Dr Handyside, in the case next related; but, from the disease appearing to affect the tibia for some way above the joint, from the great swelling of the soft parts, and from the ulcerated and otherwise unhealthy condition of the integument all around the joint, it was thought advisable to amputate some inches higher up. Accordingly, on the 1st of August, Dr Handyside performed ampu- tation somewhat below the middle of the leg. The posterior flap was formed by transfixion, and by cutting from within, and an ample covering for the bones was formed. Five vessels required ligature. After the operation, the patient’s health improved rapidly, the flaps united by the first intention, except at their margins; and the patient was dismissed, cured, on the 22d of September. Case 4. Amputation at the Ankle-joint. Recovery.—George Mac- donald, aged 19, from Lanark, was admitted on April 25, 1843, ou account of disease of the right foot and ankle. There was consider- able swelling of the soft parts around the joint, and the latter was the seat of acute pain. Sinuses existed on each side of the joint, through which the os calcis and astragalus could be felt to be in a . ® ^ carious condition. The disease was of two years’ standing, and was originally caused by a severe sprain. The patient refused to submit to amputation till the month of July, when the pain became more severe, and hec- tic had set in. The case was reckoned favourable for the operation of amputa- tion at the ankle-joint, which was accordingly performed by Dr Handyside, on July 11th, in the following manner:—A strong bis- toury was entered in front of the joint, and midway between the malleoli. From this point an incision was carried forwards over