23 The left eyeball was very prominent and discoloured, with almost complete loss of vision. The eyelids were so much tume- fied, as almost to conceal the eyeball,—and the veins of the eyelids were very conspicuous, being enlarged and tortuous. The orbit itself appeared to be also enlarged and prominent, especially to- wards its upper and outer part, forming there a hard inelastic swelling. These parts were the seat of continual stinging pain, which prevented sleep, and was fast undermining his strength. Three chronic abscesses were situated over various parts of the head. There was a tumour of the size of an egg on the left hypo- chondrium, which was firmly adherent to, and connected with the cartilages of the upper false ribs. It was slightly elastic to the feel, had grown rapidly, and was the seat of acute darting pains,— being, like the tumour of the orbit, decidedly of a malignant cha- racter. The disease seemed to be fairly begun in the stump, par- ticularly in that part of it which had been irritated by the long re- tention of the ligatures,—as, at the part where the last ligature had lain, a small, pale-coloured fungus protruded. The patient’s body, generally, was emaciated, and his strength was worn down by the continued pain, and the malignant hectic. To procure sleep, he had been for some time in the habit of taking frequent and full doses of the solution of the muriate of morphia. His appetite was not much impaired, as he had a great desire for food; but he was unable to eat much. He was now evidently sinking fast. He lived, however, getting gradually worse, till the 11th of November. No sectio cadaveris could be obtained. The patient thus lived for two months after leaving Edinburgh, and about four and a half months after the operation. Remarks.—In connexion with this case, numerous important considerations suggest themselves. In regard to the previous history of the case, it may be ob- served, that though the tumour commenced apparently only about six months before the patient presented himself at the hospital, the disease had existed probably for some time anterior to that. The left thigh and limb had, in fact, continued weaker than the other, for about six years subsequent to the attack of scarlatina,— an affection indeed which is not an unfrequent precursor, or even ■ cause, of such diseases in children. During the last six months, however, the expansion and growth of the tumour had been rapid, and when the patient did present himself at the hospital, it evidently partook of a malignant charac- ter; as was indicated not only by its remarkable advance in size, of late, and by its being the seat of acuto darting pain, but also by the appearance of the patient. At the same time, it had the cha- racter of the osteo-sarcoma, as indicated by the apparent great ex- pansion of the bone, or of the tumour connected with the latter,—