£x Liibrts % JAMES WALKER DAWSON J mPresented by Mrs. E. Dawson.THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE HUMAN BODY McMURRICHTHE DEVELOPMENT OF THE HUMAN BODY A MANUAL OF HUMAN EMBRYOLOGY BY J. PLAYFAIR McMURRICH. A.M., Ph.D. PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO, FORMERLY PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN THIRD EDITION, REVISED AND ENLARGED With TiDO Hundred and Se'veniy-se'ven Illustrations LONDON REBMAN, LIMITED 129, Shaftesbury Avenue, W. C.Copyright, 1907, by ?. Blakiston's Son & Co. Of FMfU»€»<kH| >-^-^^ A.CC 77.'? CA't ^ Rtrs 31 K i 1 '-Ll^G PRESS OF THE NEW Era Printino Compant Lancaster. Pa,PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION. V The increasing interest in human and mammalian em- bryology which has characterized the last few years has resulted in many additions to our knowledge of these branches of science, and has necessitated not a few correc- tions of ideas formerly held. In this third edition of this book the attempt has been made to incorporate the results of all important recent contributions upon the topics dis- cussed, and, at the same time, to avoid any considerable increase in the bulk of the volume. Several chapters have, therefore, been almost entirely recast, and the subject matter has been thoroughly revised throughout, so that it is hoped that the book forms an accurate statement of our present knowledge of the development of the human body. In addition to the works mentioned in the preface to the first edition as of special value to the student of Em- bryology, mention should be made of the Handbuch der vergleichenden und experimentellen Entzvicklungslehre der Wirbeltiere edited by Professor Oscar Hertwig. University of Toronto, September 7, 1907.PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. vii The assimilation of the enormous mass of facts which constitute what is usually known as descriptive anatomy has always been a difficult task for the student. Part of the difficulty has been due to a lack of information re- garding the causes which have determined the structure and relations of the parts of the body, for without some knowledge of the why things are so, the facts of anatomy stand as so many isolated items, while with such knowl- edge they become bound together to a continuous whole and their study assumes the dignity of a science. The great key to the significance of the structure and relations of organs is their development, recognizing by that term the historical as well as the individual develop- ment, and the following pages constitute an attempt to present a concise statement of the development of the human body and a foundation for the proper understand- ing of the facts of anatomy. Naturally, the individual development claims the major share of attention, since its processes are the more immediate forces at work in de- termining the conditions in the adult, but where the em- bryological record fails to afford the required data, whether from its actual imperfection or from the incompleteness of our knowledge concerning it, recourse has been had to the facts of comparative anatomy as affording indications of the historical development or evolution of the parts under consideration. It has not seemed feasible to include in the book a com- plete list of the authorities consulted in its preparation.PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION. Vlll The short bibHographies appended to eacli chapter make no pretensions to completeness, but are merely indications of some of the more important works, especially those of recent date, which consider the questions discussed. For a very full bibliography of all works treating of human embryology up to 1893 reference may be made to Minot's Bibliography of Vertebrate Embryology, published in the " Memoirs of the Boston Society of Natural History," volume iv, 1893. It is fitting, however, to acknowledge an especial indebtedness, shared by all writers on human embryology, to the classic papers of His, chief among which is his Anatomic menschlicher Embryonen, and grate- ful acknowledgments are also due to the admirable text- books of Minot, O. Hertwig, and KoUmann. Anatomical Laboratory, University of Michigan. October i, 1902.CONTENTS. Introduction i PART I.—GENERAL DEVELOPMENT. CHAPTER I. The Spermatozoon and Spermatogenesis; the Ovum and Its Maturation and FertiHzation il CHAPTER II. The Segmentation of the Ovum and the Formation of the Germ Layers 39 CHAPTER III. The Development of the External Form of the Human Embryo 67 CHAPTER IV. The Medullary Groove, Notochord, and Mesodermic Somites 96 CHAPTER V. The Yolk-stalk, Belly-stalk, and Fetal Membranes 112 PART II.—ORGANOGENY. CHAPTER VI. The Development of the Integumentary System 147 CHAPTER VIL The Development of the Connective Tissues and Skeleton. 160 CHAPTER VIII. The Development of the Muscular System 203^ CONTENTS. CHAPTER IX. The Development of the Circulatory and Lymphatic Sys- 233 \/ CHAPTER X. The Development of the Digestive Tract and Glands 296 V CHAPTER XI. The Development of the Pericardium, the Pleuro-periton- eum, and the Diaphragm 335 CHAPTER XII. The Development of the Organs of Respiration 352 V CHAPTER XIII. The Development of the Urinogenital System 360 y CHAPTER XIV. The Suprarenal System of Organs 392 CHAPTER XV. The Development of the Nervous System 400 CHAPTER XVI. ^ The Development of the Organs of Special Sense 456 V CHAPTER XVII. Post-natal Development 503 - Index 5^12 1 THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE HUMAN BODY. INTRODUCTION. V Nearly seventy years ago (1839) one of the fundamental principles of biology was established by Schleiden and Schwann as the cell theory. According to this, all organ- isms are composed of one or more structural units termed cells, each of which, in multicellular organisms, maintains an individual existence and yet contributes with its fellows to the general existence of the individual. Viewed in the light of this theory, the human body is a community, an aggregate of many individual units, each of which leads to a certain extent an independent existence and yet both contributes to and shares in the general welfare of the community. To the founders of the theory the structural units were vesicles with definite walls, and little attention was paid to their contents. Hence the use of the term " cell" in connection with them. Long before the establishment of the cell theory, however, the existence of organisms com- posed of a gelatinous substance showing no indications of a definite limiting membrane had been noted, and in 1835 a French naturalist, Dujardin, had described the gelatinous2 INTRODUCTION. material of which certain marine organisms (Rhizopoda) were composed, terming it sarcode and maintaining it to be the material substratum which conditioned the various vital phenomena exhibited by the organisms. Later, in 1846, a botanist, von Mohl, observed that living plant cells contained a similar substance, upon which he believed the existence of the cell as a vital structure was dependent, and he bestowed upon this substance the name protoplasm, by which it is now universally known. By these discoveries the importance originally attributed to the cell-wall was greatly lessened, and in 1864 Max Schultze reformulated the cell theory, defining the cell as a mass of protoplasm, the presence or absence of a limiting membrane or cell-wall being immaterial. At the same time the spontaneous origination of cells from an undifferen- tiated matrix, believed to occur by the older authors, was shown to, have no existence, every cell originating by the divisign of a preexisting cell, a fact concisely expressed in the aphorism of Virchow—omnis cellula a celluld. Interpreted in the light of these results, the human body is an aggregate of myriads of cells,*—i. e., of masses Qjf protoplasm, each of which owes its origin to the division of a; preexistent cell and all of which may be traced back t^ a^ single parent cell—a fertilized ovum. All these cells are not alike, however, but just as in a social community one group of individuals devotes itself to the performance of Qne of. fche duties requisite to the well-being of the commu- nity and another group devotes itself to the performance of another duty, so too, in the body, one group of cells takes upon itself one special function and another another. There is, in other words, in the cell-community a physiological * It has been estimated that the number of cells entering into the composition of the body of an adult human being is about twenty-six million five hundred thousand millions!3 INTRODUCTION. division of labor. Indeed, the comparison of the cell- community to the social community may be carried still further, for just as gradations of individuality may be rec- ognized in the individual, the municipality, the state, and the republic, so too in the cell-community there are cells; tissues, each of which is an aggregate of similar cells; organs, which are aggregates of tissues, one, however, predominating and determining the character of the organ; and systems, which are aggregates of organs having correlated functions. '* It is the province of embry- ' ology to study the mode of di- \ vision of the fertilized ovum 1 and the progressive differenti- I ation of the resulting cells to I form the tissues, organs, and systems. But before consider- ^ng these phenomena as seen in the human body it will be well to get some general idea of the structure of an animal cell. This (Fig. i), as has been already stated, is a mass of protoplasm, a substance which in the living condition is a viscous fluid resembling in many of its peculiarities egg- albumen, and like this being coagulated when heated or when exposed to the action of various chemical reagents. As to the structure of living protoplasm little is yet known, since the application of the reagents necessary for its accu- rate study and analysis results in its disintegration or coagu- lation. But even in the living cell it can be seen that the protoplasm is not a simple homogeneous substance. What is termed a nucleus is usually clearly discernible as a more or less spherical body q£a greater refractive index than the surrounding protoplasm, and since this is a permanent organ of the cell it is convenient to distinguish the surrounding Fig. I.—Ovum of New-born Child with Follicle- cells.—(Mertens.)4 INTRODUCTION. protoplasm as the cytoplasm from the nuclear protoplasm or karyoplasni. The study of protoplasm coagulated by reagents seems to nidicate that it is a mixture of substances rather than a simple chemical compound. Both the cytoplasm and the karyoplasm consist of a more solid substance, the rctic- rihim, which forms a network or felt-work, in the inter- stices of which is a more fluid material, the enchylema * The karyoplasm, in addition, has scattered along the fibers of its reticulum a peculiar material termed chromatin and usually contains embedded in its substance one or more spherical bodies termed nucleoli which may be simply larger masses__of-chromatin or bodies of special chemical compo^ sition. And, finally, in all actively growing cells there is differentiated in the cytoplasm a peculiar body known as the arctoplasni sphere, in the center of which there is usually a minute spherical body known as the centrosome. It has been already stated that new cells arise by the division of preexisting ones, and this process is associated with a series of complicated phenomena which have great significance in connection with some of the problems of embryology. When such a cell as has been described above is about to divide, the fibers of the reticulum in the neigh- borhood of the archoplasm sphere arrange themselves so as to form fibrils radiating in all directions from the sphere as a center, and the archoplasm with its contained centro- some gradually elongates and finally divides, each portion retaining its share of the radiating fibrils, so that two asters, * It has been observed that certain coagtilable substances and gelatin, when subjected to the reagents usually employed for "fixing" proto- plasm, present a structure similar to that of protoplasm, and it has been held that protoplasm in the uncoagulated condition is, like these sub- stances, a more or less homogeneous material. On the other hand, Biitschli maintains that living protoplasm lias a foam-structure and is, in other words, an emulsion.INTRODUCTION. 5 as the aggregate of centrosome, sphere and fibrils is termed, are now to be found in the cytoplasm (Fig. 2, A). Grad- ually the two asters separate from one another and even- tually come to rest at opposite sides of the nucleus (Fig. 2, C). In this structure important changes have been taking i'lc. 2.—Diagrams Illustrating the Prophases of Mitosis.— (Adapted from E. B. Wilson.) place in the mean time. The chromatin, originally scattered irregularly along the reticulum, has gradually aggregated to form a continuous thread (Fig. 2, A), and later this thread breaks up into a definite number of pieces termed chromo- somes (Fig. 2, B), the number of these being practically6 INTRODUCTION. constant for each species of animal. Thus, in man (Dues- berg), the mouse, the salamander, and the trout the number of chromosomes is twenty-four; in the ox and guinea-pig it is sixteen; while in one of the round-worms (Ascaris) the number may be as small as four, or even two. It is to be noted that the number is always an even one. As soon as the asters have taken up their position on opposite sides of the nucleus, the nuclear reticulum begins to be converted into a spindle-shaped bundle of fibrils which associate themselves with the astral rays and have lying scattered among them the chromosomes (Fig. 2, C). To the figure so formed the term amphiastcr is applied, and soon after its formation the chromosomes arrange them- selves in a circle or plane at the equator of the spindle (Fig. 2, D) and the stages preparatory to the actual division, the prophases, are completed. The next stage, the metaphase (Fig. 3, A), consists of the division, usually longitudinally, of each chromosome, so that the cell now contains twice as many chromosomes as it did previously. As soon as this division is completed the anaphases are inaugurated by the halves of each chro- mosome separating from one another and approaching one of the asters (Fig. 3, B), and a group of chromosomes, con- taining half of the total number formed in the metaphase, comes to lie in close proximity to each archoplasm sphere (Fig. 3, C). The spindle and astral fibers gradually resolve themselves again into the reticulum and the chromosomes of each group become irregular in shape and gradually spread out upon the nuclear reticulum so that two nuclei, each sim- ilar to the one from which the process started, are formed (Fig. 3, D). Before all these changes are accomplished, however, a constriction makes its appearance at the surface of the cytoplasm (Fig. 3, C) and, gradually deepening, divides the cytoplasm in a plane passing through the equa-7 INTRODUCTION. tor of the amphiaster and gives rise to two separate cells (Fig. 3, D). . This complicated process, which is known as karyokmesis or mitosis, is the one usually observed in dividing cells, but Fig. 3.—Diagrams Illustrating the Metaphase and Anaphases OF Mitosis.—(Adapted from E. B. Wilson.) occasionally a cell divides by the nucleus becoming con- stricted and dividing into two parts without any develop- ment of chromosomes, spindle, etc., the division of the cell following that of the nucleus. This amitotic method of division is, however, rare, and in many cases, though not always, its occurrence seems to be associated with an impair-8 INTRODUCTION. ment of the reproductive activities of the cells. In actively reproducing cells the mitotic method of division may be regarded as the rule. Since the process of development consists of the multi- plication of a single original cell and the differentiation of the cell aggregate so formed, it follows that the starting- point of each line of individual development is to be found in a cell which forms part of an individual of the preceding generation. In other words, each individual represents one generation in esse and the succeeding generation in posse. This idea may perhaps be made clear by the following con- siderations. As a result of the division of a fertilized ovum there is produced an aggregate of cells, which, by the physio- logical division of labor, specialize themselves for various functions. Some assume the duty of perpetuating the spe- cies and are known as the sexual or germ cells, while the remaining ones divide among themselves the various func- tions necessary for the maintenance of the individual, and may be termed the somatic cells. The germ cells represent potentially the next generation, while the somatic cells con- stitute the present one. The idea may be represented schematically thus: First generation Somatic cells -|- germ cells Second generation Somatic cells -f germ cells Third generation Somatic cells germ cells, etc It is evident, then, while the somatic cells of each genera- tion die at their appointed time and are differentiated anew for each generation from the germ cells, the latter, which may be termed collectively the germ-plasm, are handed on from generation to generation without interruption, and itINTRODUCTION. 9 may be supposed that this has been the case ah initio. This is the doctrine of the continuity of the germ-plasm, a doc- trine of fundamental importance on account of its bearings on the phenomena of heredity. It is necessary, however, to fix upon some hnk in the continuous chain of the germ-plasm as the starting-point of the development of each individual, and this link is the fertilized ovum. By this is meant a germ cell produced by the fusion of two units of the germ-plasm. In many of the lower forms of life {e. g., Hydra and certain turbel- larian worms) reproduction may be accomplished by a di- vision of the entire organism into two parts or by the separation of a portion of the body from the parent indi- vidual. Such a method of reproduction is termed non- sexual. Furthermore in a number of forms {e. g., bees. Phylloxera, water-fleas) the germ cells are able to undergo development without previously being fertilized, this consti- tuting a method of reproduction known as parthenogenesis. But in all these cases sexual reproduction also occurs, and in all the more highly organized animals it is the only method which normally occurs; in it a germ cell develops only after complete fusion with another germ cell. In the simpler forms of this process little difference exists between the two combining cells, but since it is, as a rule, of advan- tage that a certain amount of nutrition should be stored up in the germ cells for the support of the developing em- bryo until it is able to secure food for itself, while at the same time it is also advantageous that the cells which unite shall come from different individuals (cross-fertilization), and hence that the cells should retain their motility, a di- vision of labor has resulted. Certain germ cells store up more or less food yolk, their motility becoming thereby im- paired, and form what are termed the female cells or ova, while others discard all pretensions of storing up nutrition.INTRODUCTION. lO are especially motile and can seek and penetrate the inert ova; these latter cells constitute the male cells or sperma- tozoa. In many animals both kinds of cells are produced by the same individual, but in all the vertebrates (with rare exceptions in some of the lower orders) each individual produces only ova or spermatozoa, or, as it is generally stated, the sexes are distinct. It is of importance, then, that the peculiarities of the two forms of germ cells, as they occur in the human species, should be considered. LITERATURE. E. B. Wilson : " The Cell in Development and Inheritance." Third edition. New York, 1900. O. Hertwig : " Die Zelle und die Gewebe." Jena, 1893.II PART 1. GENERAL DEVELOPMENT. CHAPTER 1. THE SPERMATOZOON AND SPERMATOGENESIS; THE OVUM AND ITS MATURATION AND FERTILIZATION. The Spermatozoon.—The human spermatozoon (Fig. 4) is a minute and greatly elongated cell, measuring about 0,05 mm, in length and consisting of an anterior broader portion or head (k) and a narrow thread-like tail (/). The head measures about 0.005 mm. in length and when viewed from one surface (Fig, 4, i) has an oval outline, though since it is somewhat flattened or concave toward the tip, it has a pyriform shape when seen in profile (Fig, 4, 2). The tail consists of several portions. Situated immediately behind the head is a short cylindrical portion measuring 0,006 mm. in length which is termed the middle-piece or neck (w), and behind this is the flagellum, of about the same diameter as the middle-piece, but forming about four fifths (0.04 mm,) of the entire length of the spermatozoon. The axis of the flagellum is formed by a delicate filament which projects somewhat beyond the flagellum, forming what is termed the terminal filament or end-piece {e). In addition to these various parts, the spermatozoa of many mammalia possess a head-cap (Fig. 5, he) covering the anterior end of the head, and a spiral membrane wound around the flagellum. The presence of these structures has not yet beenTHE SPERMATOZOON. g-enerally observed in the human spermatozoon, thouLrh several observers have claimed the existence of a spiral membrane and the head-cap undoubtedly exists in the earlier stages of the development of the spermatozoon, though it may later be lost Fig. 4.—Human Spermatozoon. Fig. 5.—Spermatozoon of Rat. I, Front view, 2, side view of the h, Head; he, head-cap; m/y, mid- head; e, terminal filament; die-piece; n, neck—(Jensen.) head; /, tail; m, middle-piece. (After Rctzius.) To understand the significance of the various parts enter- ing into the composition of the spermatozoon a study of their development is necessary, and since the various proc- esses of spermatogenesis have been much more accurately observed in such mammalia as the rat and guinea-pig than in man, the description which follows will be based on what has been described as occurring in these forms. From what is known of the spermatogenesis in man it seems certain that it closely resembles that of these mammals so far as its essential features are concerned.13 SPERMATOGENESIS. Spermatogenesis.—The spermatozoa are developed from the cells which line the interior of the seminiferous tubules of the testis. The various stages of development cannot all be seen at any one part of a tubule, but the formation of the spermatozoa seems to pass along each tubule in a wave-like manner and the appearances presented at differ- ent points of the wave may be represented diagrammatically as in Fig. 6. In the first section of this figure four dififerent genera- FiG. 6.—Diagram showing Stages of Spermatogenesis as seen in Different Sectors of a Seminiferous Tubule of a Rat. s, Sertoli cell; sc^, spermatocyte of the first order; sc^, spermatocyte of the second order; sg, spermatogone; sp, spermatid; s::, spermato- zoon.— {Modified from von Lenhossck.) tions of cells are represented; above are mature sperma- tozoa lying in the lumen of the tubule, while next the base- ment membrane is a series of cells from which a new gen- eration of spermatozoa is about to develop. The cells of this series are of two kinds; the larger one {s) will develop into a structure known as a Sertoli cell, while the others are parent cells of spermatozoa and are termed spermatogonia Ug). In the next section the Sertoli cell is seen to have l)ec()mc considerably enlarged, its cytoplasm projectingSPERMATOGENESIS. toward the lumen of the tubule, and in the third section the enlargement has increased to such an extent that the sper- matogonia are forced away from the basement membrane, with which the Sertoli cell alone is in contact. In the fourth section the spermatogonia are seen in process of division; one of the cells so formed will persist as a spermatogone, while the other forms what is termed a primary sperma- tocyte {sc^). The results of the division are seen in the last section, where four spermatogonia are seen again in contact with the basement membrane and above them are four primary spermatocytes. Returning now to the first and second sections, the layer of primary spermatocytes may still be seen, indications of an approaching division being furnished by the arrangement of the chromatin in those of the second section, and in the third section the division is seen in progress, the two cells which result from it being termed secondary spermatocytes (sc^). These cells almost immediately undergo division, as shown in the fourth section, each giving rise to two spermatids (sp), each of which becomes later on directly transformed into a sperma- tozoon (^^), From the primary spermatocyte there have been formed, therefore, as the result of two mitoses, four cells, each of which represents a spermatozoon. During these divisions important departures from the typical method of mitosia occur. These departures have been most thoroughly studied in the lower forms, but it is probable that they are fundamentally similar in the mam- malia. It has already been pointed out (p. 6) that the number of chromosomes which appear during the mitoses of the somatic cells is characteristic for the species. In the division of the primary spermatocytes the number of chromosomes which appear is apparently only half the char- acteristic number, but in reality it is double that number, since each chromosome is really composed of four elementsSPERMATOGENESIS. 15 more or less closely united to form a tetrad. During the mitosis each tetrad divides into two dyads, one of which passes into each secondary spermatocyte, and these cells undergoing- division without the usual reconstruction of the nucleus, each of the dyads which they contain is halved. Fig. 7.—^DiAGRAM Illustrating the Reduction of the Chromo- somes During Spermatogenesis. sc^, Spermatocyte of the first order; sc', spermatocyte of the second order; sp, spermatid. SO that each spermatid receives a number of single chromo- 1 somes equal to half the number characteristic for the species. / ^ This reduction of the chromosomes of the germ cells may be understood from the annexed diagram (Fig. 7), which represents the spermatogenesis of a form whose somatic cells are supposed to contain eight chromosomes.16 SPERMATOGENESIS. The transformation of the spermatids into spermatozoa takes place while they are in intimate association with the Sertoli cells, a number of them fusing with the cytoplasm of an enlarged Sertoli cell, as shown in Fig. 6, s, and prob- ably receiving nutrition from it. In each spermatid there is present, in addition to the nucleus, an archoplasm sphere, from which the centrosomes have migrated so as to lie free in the cytoplasm. The details of the transformation are still to a certain extent under dis- cussion, the view here pre- sented being only one of the many which have been ad- vanced within recent years. On the fusion of the sper- matid with a Sertoli cell, a delicate filament (Fig. 8, /), the beginning of the axial fila- ment of the spermatozoon, appears in its cytoplasm, seem- ing to arise from the centro- some which lies at one end of it. The archoplasm sphere (a) and centrosome migrate to alTi/.r;*.""''''"'''"'- °PP°'''^ «ides of the nucleus, which gradually assumes an excentric position, and the archoplasm becomes converted into the head-cap (he) while the centrosomes, enlarging, form the anterior portion or neck of the middle-piece (mp), the remainder of that structure being formed from the axial filament surrounded by a cytoplasmic sheath. As the axial filament lengthens the cytoplasm is drawn out with it to Fig. 8.—Four Stages in the Transformation of a Sper- matid INTO THE Spermato- zoon OF A Rat. a, Archoplasm; c, mass of chro- matin which is later ahsorbed; axial filament; /;, head; he,17 THE OVUM. form its sheath, the terminal portion of the filament only projecting beyond the sheath to form the end-piece, and the cytoplasm surrounding the nucleus becomes reduced to an exceedingly deHcate layer, so that the head of the spermato- zoon (h) consists ahnost entirely of nuclear substance if the head-cap be left out of consideration. The homologies of the parts of the spermatozoon with those of the spermatid may be presented in tabular form thus: Spermatid. Spermatozoon. Nucleus. Head. Archoplasm. Head-cap. Centrosome. Neck of middle-piece. ( Axial filament. Cytoplasm. ■< Sheath of middle-piece. I Sheath of tail. The spermatozoon is, then, one of four equivalent cells, produced by two successive divisions of a primary spermat- ocyte and containing one half the number of chromosomes characteristic for the species. The Ovum.—The human ovum is a spherical cell meas- uring about 0.2 mm. in diameter and is contained within a cavity situated near or at the surface of the ovary and termed a Graafian follicle. This follicle is surrounded by a capsule composed of two layers, an. outer one, the theca externa, consisting of fibrous tissue resembling that found in the ovarian stroma, and an inner one, the theca interna, composed of numerous spherical and fusiform cells. Both the thecse are richly supplied with blood-vessels, the theca interna especially being the seat of a very rich capillary network. Internal to the theca interna there is a trans- parent, thin, and structureless hyaline membrane, within which is the follicle proper, whose wall is formed by a layer of cells termed the stratum granulosum (Fig. 9, mg) and inclosing a cavity filled with an albuminous fluid, the 3l8 THE OVUM. liquor folliculi. At one point, usually on the surface nearest the center of the ovary, the stratum granulosum is greatly , thickened to form a mass of cells, the discus proligerus (dp), which projects into the cavity of the follicle and en- closes the ovum (o). Usually but a single ovum is con- \ ''i'.:/ \ ■■ • 2 IV Fig. 9—Section jhrough Portion of an Ovary of an Opossum {Didclphys virginiana) showing Ova and Follicles in Various Stages of Development. h, Blood-vessel; dp, discus proligerus; mg, stratum granulosum; o, ovum; s, stroma; th, theca folliculi. tained in any discus, though occasionally two or even three may occur. The cells of the discus proligerus are for the most part piore or less spherical or ovoid in shape and are arranged irregularly. In the immediate vicinity of the ovum, how- ever, they are more columnar in form and are arranged in about two concentric rows, thus giving a somewhat radiatedTHE OVUM. 19 appearance to this portion of the discus, which is termed the corona radiata (Fig. 10, cr). Immediately within the corona is a transparent membrane, the sona pellucida (Fig. 10, zp), about as thick as one of the cell rows of the corona (0.02 to 0.024 mm.), and presenting a very fine radial stria- tion which has been held to be due to minute pores travers- Fig. 10.—Ovum from Ovary of a Woman Thirty Years of Age. cr, Corona radiata; n, nucleus; p, protoplasmic zone of ovum; ps, peri- vitelline space; y, yolk; zp, zona pellucida.—(A/'ag^/.) ing the membrane and containing delicate prolongations of the cells of the corona radiata. Within the zona pellucida is the ovum proper, whose cytoplasm is more or less clearly differentiated into an outer more purely protoplasmic por- tion (Fig. 10, p) and an inner deutoplasmic mass (v) which contains numerous fine granules of fatty and albuminous20 •OVULATION. natures. These granules represent the food yolk or deuto- plasm, which is usually much more abundant in the ova of other, mammals and forms a mass of relatively enormous size in the ova of birds and reptiles. The nucleus (n) is situated somewhat excentrically in the deutoplasmic portion of the ovum and contains a single, well-defined nucleolus. A folHcle with the structure described above and con- taming a fully grown ovum may measure anywhere from five to twelve millimeters in diameter, and is said to be "mature," having reached its full development and being ready to burst and set free the ovum. This, however, is not yet mature; it is not ready for fertilization, but must first undergo certain changes similar to those through which the spermatocyte passes, the so-called ovum at this stage being more properly a primary oocyte. But before describ- ing the phenomena of maturation of the ovum it will be well to consider the extrusion of the ovum and the changes which the follicle subsequently undergoes. Ovulation and its Relation to Menstruation.—As a rule, but a single follicle near maturity is found in either the one or the other ovary at any given time. In the early stages of its development a follicle is situated somewhat deeply in the stroma of the ovary, but during its growth it approaches the surface and eventually forms a marked prominence, only an exceedingly thin membrane separating the cavity of the follicle from the abdominal cavity. This thin membrane finally ruptures, and the liquor folliculi, which is apparently under some pressure while contained within the follicle, rushes out through the rupture, carrying with it the ovum surrounded by some of the cells of the discus proligerus. The immediate cause of the bursting of the follicle is not yet clearly understood. It has been suggested that a gradual increase of the liquor folliculi under pressure must in itselfOVULATION. finally lead to a rupture, and it has also been pointed out that just before the maturation of the follicle the theca interna undergoes an exceedingly rapid development and vascularization which may play an important part in the phenomenon. Normally the ovum when expelled from its follicle is received at once into the Fallopian tube, and so makes its way to the uterfis, in whose cavity it undergoes its develop- ment. Occasionally, however, this normal course may be interfered with, the ovum coming to rest in the tube and there undergoing its development and producing a tubal pregnancy; or, again, the ovum may not find its way into the Fallopian tube, but may fall from the follicle into the abdominal cavity, where, if it has been fertilized, it will undergo development, producing an abdominal pregnancy; and, finally, and still more rarely, the ovum may not be ex- pelled when the Graafian follicle ruptures and yet may be fertilized and undergo its development within the follicle, bringing about what is termed an ovarian pregnancy. All these varieties of extra-uterine pregnancy are, of course, exceedingly serious, since in none of them is the fetus viable. It was long believed that ovulation was coincident with certain periodic changes of the uterus which constitute what is termed menstruation. This phenomenon makes its ap- pearance at the time of puberty, the exact age at which it appears being determined by individual and racial peculiari- ties and by climate and other factors, and after it has once appeared it normally recurs at definite intervals more or less closely corresponding with lunar months (i. e., at inter- vals of about twenty-eight days, the extremes being from twenty-four to thirty-four days) until somewhere in the neighborhood of the fortieth or forty-fifth year, when it ceases.22 MENSTRUATION. The structural changes associated with menstruation con- sist of a preHminary thickening of the walls of the uterus, its mucous membrane and the subjacent tissue becoming highly vascular and eventually congested. Later the walls of the blood-vessels degenerate and permit of an escape of blood here and there beneath the mucous membrane which, in the areas overlying the effused blood, undergoes a fatty degeneration and is desquamated, allowing*Df the formation of a blood-clot in the cavity of the uterus. The hemor- rhagic portion of the process lasts usually from three to five days; at its close a regeneration of the lost portions of the mucous membrane begins, and when this is completed a resting period ensues which persists until near the time of a new menstrual period. The local structural changes of the uterus are associated with decided constitutional disturbances. The pulse, blood- pressure, temperature, muscular power, and lung capacity are in general somewhat increased before menstruation and sink immediately before or at the time when the hemorrhage in the uterus begins; immediately before the menstrual period there is also a diminished destruction of the nitroge- nous materials of the body, as shown by the amount of nitrogen excreted being less than at other times. These general changes may well affect the ovary as well as other portions of the body and so contribute to a coin- cidence of menstruation and ovulation. And, indeed, tliere seems little question but that the coincidence is of frequent or even usual occurrence. The appearance of menstruation indicates, as a rule, the beginning of fertility, and sterility ensues at the time of the final cessation of the menses. Furthermore, menstruation ceases when pregnancy super- venes, and the cessation persists not only until parturition, but so long as the child remains unweaned, and as a rule ovulation is also in abeyance during the same period. Ex-RELATION OP OVULATION TO MENSTRUATION. 2$ ceptions, however, have been observed which show that the coincidence of the two phenomena is not invariable, preg- nancy, for example, having occurred in young girls who had not yet menstruated, and in forty-two operated cases in which the ovaries and uterus had been removed after men- struation, twelve showed no signs of ovulation as deter- mined by the presence of recently ruptured follicles in the ovaries (Leopold and Mironoff), while in another set of fifty-four cases ovulation appeared to have coincided with menstruation in thirty-nine instances. From the evidence at present at our disposal it may be stated that in the human species while ovulation generally coincides with menstruation, yet the two phenomena may, and not infrequently do, occur independently of one another. In the lower mammals ovulation is, as a rule, directly asso- ciated with a condition known as oestrus or "heat," this being preceded by certain phenomena constituting what is termed the prooestrum and corresponding essentially to menstruation. In the majority of species one or more oestrous periods occur during the year in fertile females, and each of these is pre- ceded by a prorestrum. But the prooestrous phenomena do not in all forms invariably lead to an oestrum, since, although female monkeys menstruate regularly throughout the year, yet they have only one annual oestrous period (Heape). The immediate causes of the prooestrous and oestrous phe- nomena and of their periodic occurrence are as yet obscure. Animals, however, from which the ovaries have been completely removed do not exhibit the phenomena, and it has recently been found that in such animals an oestrous state, or at least a transient condition resembling oestrus may be produced by the injection of an extract of ovaries taken from animals in a prooestrous or oestrous state. On the basis of this it has been suggested that the prooestrous and oestrous phenomena are the results of an internal secretion produced by the ovaries (Mar- shall and Jolly). The Corpus Luteum.—With the setting free of the ovum the usefulness of the Graafian follicle is at an end, and it begins at once to undergo retrogressive changes which24 CORPUS LUTEUM. result primarily in the formation of a structure known as the corpus luteum (Fig. 11). On the rupture of the follicle a considerable portion of the stratum granulosum remains in place, and usually there is an effusion of a greater or less amount of blood from the vessels of the theca interna into stance having suggested the name corpus luteum which is now applied to it. In later stages there is a gradual increase in the amount of connective tissue present and a corresponding diminu- tion of the lutein cells, the corpus luteum gradually losing its yellow color and becoming converted into a whitish, fibrous, scar-like body, the corpus albicans, which may event- ually almost completely disappear. These various changes occur in every ruptured follicle, whether or not the ovum which was contained in it be fertilized. But the rapidity with which the various stages of retrogression ensue differs greatly according to whether pregnancy occurs or not, and it is customary to distinguish the corpora lutea which are associated with pregnancy as corpora lutea vera from those whose ova fail to be fertilized and which form corpora lutea AFTER Menstruation. d, Blood-clot; f, Graafian follicle; th, theca.—(Kollmaitii.) Fig. II.—Ovary of a Woman Nine- teen Years of Age, Eight Days the follicular cavity. The split in the wall through which the ovum escaped soon closes over and the cavity becomes filled with cells separated into groups by trabeculae of connective tissue containing blood- vessels (Fig. 12). These cells contain a consider- able amount of a peculiar yellow pigment known as lutein, the color imparted to the follicle by this sub-THE CORPUS LUTEUM. 25 Spuria. In the latter the retrogression of the foUicle is completed usually in about five or six weeks, while the cor- pora vera persist throughout the entire duration of the preg- nancy and complete their retrogression after the birth of the child. Two very different views are held as to the origin of the Fig. 12.—Section through the Corpus Lutkum uf a Rabbit, Seventy Hours post coittim. The cavity of the follicle is almost completely filled with lutein cells among which is a certain amount of connective tissue g Blood- vessels; kc, ovarial epithelium.—(6'c>&o//a.) lutein cells. According to one, which may be termed von P»aer's view, the cells of the stratum granulosum remain- ing in the follicle rapidly undergo degeneration and com- ])letely disappear, and the lutein cells and connective-tissue 426 CORPUS LUtEUM. trabecnlje are formed entirely from the cells of the theca interna, which increase rapidly both in size and number. The other view was first advanced by Bischojfif and may be known by his name. It is to the effect that the granulosa cells do not disintegrate, but, on the contrary, increase rap- idly in number and become converted into the lutein cells, only the connective tissue and the blood-vessels being derived from the theca interna. Which of these two views is correct is at present uncer- tain. The majority of those who have within recent years studied the formation of the human corpus luteum have expressed themselves in favor of von Baer's theory. So- botta has, however, made-a thorough study of the phenom- ena in a perfect series of mice ovaries and has demonstrated that in that form the lutein cells are derived from the granu- losa cells. It would be strange if the lutein cells had a different origin in two different mammals, and the observa- tions on mice are so thorough that one is tempted to regard different results as being due to imperfections in the series of ovaries studied, important steps in the development of the corpora lutea being thus overlooked. This temptation is, moreover, greatly increased by the fact that Sobotta's observations have been confirmed in the cases of several other animals, such, for instance, as the rabbit (Sobotta, Honore, Cohn), certain bats (van der Stricht), the sheep (Marshall), the marsupial dasyurus (Sandes), the spermo- phile (Volker), and the guinea-pig (Sobotta). The weight of evidence is at the present time strongly in favor of Bischoff's view, but until the adverse results obtained by Clarke and oUiers from the study of the human corpus luteum and those obtained by Jankowski from the pig have been shown to be incorrect, the question as to the invariable derivation of the luteum cells from the stratum granulosum [ must be left open. Since it is held that both the granulosa27 THE MATURATION OF THE OVUM. and theca cells are derivatives of the embryonic ovarial epithelium the essential differences between the two origins that have been ascribed to the liiteiim cells may not be so great as has been supposed. The prevalent tendency toward attributing internal secre- tions to obscure organs has not allowed the corpus luteum to escape, and it has been suggested (Marshall and Jolly) that it provides a secretion which is essential for the changes taking place during the fixation of the embr)^o and for its develop- ment during the early stages. In support of this view it has been found that if the ovaries were removed from rats and bitches at various stages after impregnation, pregnancy did not continue if the operation were performed during its earlier stages. The Maturation of the Ovum.—Returning now to the ovum, it has been shown that at the time of its extrusion from the Graafian follicle it is not equivalent to a sperma- tozoon but to a primary spermatocyte, and it may be remem- bered that such a spermatocyte becomes converted into a spermatozoon only after it has undergone two divisions, during which there is a reduction of the number of the chromosomes to one half the number characteristic for the species. Similar divisions and a similar reduction of the chromo- somes occur in the case of the ovum, constituting what is termed its maturation. The phenomena have not as yet been observed in human ova, and, indeed, among mammals only with any approach to completeness in the mouse (Sobotta), and guinea-pig (Rubaschkin) ; but they have been observed in so many other forms, both vertebrate and invertebrate, and present in all cases so much uniformity in their general features, that there can be little question as to their occurrence in the human ovum. In typical cases the ovum (the primary oocyte) under- goes a division in the prophases of which the chromatin aggregates to form half as many tetrads as there are chro-THE MATURATION OF THE OVUM. 28 mosomes in the somatic cells (Fig. 13, oc') and at the meta- phase a dyad from each tetrad passes into each of the two cells that are formed. These two cells (secondary oocytes) are not, however, of the same size; one of them is almost Fig. 13.—Diagram Illustrating the Reduction of the Chromo- somes DURING the Maturation of the Ovum. 0, Ovum; oocyte of the first generation; oc^, oocyte of the second generation; p, polar globule. as large as the original primary oocyte and continues to be called an ovum (oc^), while the other is very small and is termed a polar globule (p). A second division of the ovum quickly succeeds the first (Fig. 13, oc^), and each dyad29 THE MATURATION OF THE OVUM. gives a single chromosome to each of the two cells which result, so that each of these cells possesses half the number of chromosomes characteristic for the species. The second division, like the first, is unequal, one of the cells being relatively very large and constituting the mature ovum, while the other is small and is the second polar globule. Frequently the first polar globule divides during the forma- tion of the second one, a reduction of its dyads to single chromosomes taking place, so that as the final result of the maturation four cells are formed (Fig. 13), the mature ovum (o), and three polar globules (p), each of which con- tains half the number of chromosomes characteristic for the species. The similarity of the maturation phenomena to those of spermatogenesis may be perceived from the following diagram: n/'~N Spermato- I ) cyte I Oocyte II O O O O %Tu OvumO O 00 00 00 Spermatids Polar globules / In both processes the number of cells produced is the same and in both there is the same reduction of the chromosomes. But while each of the four spermatids is functional, the th ree polar globules are non-functional, and are to be re- garded as abortive ova, formed during the process of reduc- tion of the chromosomes only to undergo degeneration. In other words, three out of every four potential ova sacrificeTHE MATURATION OF THE OVUM, 30 themselves in order that the fourth may have the bulk, that is to say, the amount of nutritive material and cytoplasm necessary for successful development. In the mouse, which for the present must be taken as type of the mammalia, the majority of ova show an appar- ent departure from the processes just described. The num- ber of chromosomes occurring- in the somatic cells of the Fig. 14.—Ovum of a Mouse Showing the Maturation Spindle. The ovum is enclosed by the zona pellucida {s.p), to which the cells of the corona radiata are still attached.—(Sobotta.) mouse is twenty-four. The first maturation spindle (Fig. 14) possesses twelve chromosomes, which from analogy with the lower forms may be assumed to be tetrads, and during the metaphase each chromosome divides transversely, the polar globule receiving twelve chromosomes, presum- ably dyads, while twelve remain within the ovum. So far31 THE FERTILIZATION OF THE OVUM. the process is essentially typical, but in at least 75 per cent, of the ova examined only one polar globule could be ob- served. In the remaining 25 per cent, two polar globules occurred, the twelve chromosomes again dividing trans- versely, so that the second polar globule and the ovum each received twelve chromosomes and the reduction was typical. Recent observations, however, favor the idea that no real deviation from the normal reduction phenomena occurs in the ovum of the mouse. Gerlach holds that the failure of the second polar globule does not indicate the non-occur- rence of the second maturation mitosis, but merely that this, owing to the late entrance of a spermatozoon develops in such a plane or in such a position that the pole of the spindle does not reach the surface of the ovum, the polar globule, consec|uently, not being extruded, but remaining within the ovum, where its chromosomes later degenerate. Kirkham, however, goes even farther, and maintains that the second polar globule is formed in all fertilized ova, the first one in the meantime, however, having escaped through the zona pellucida in the majority of the ova, so that the appearance of but a single globule is presented. If this last view be correct then the maturation phenomena of the mouse's ovum are perfectly typical. The Fertilization of the Ovum.—It is perfectly clear that the reduction of the chromosomes in the germ cells cannot very long be repeated in successive generations unless a restoration of the original number takes place occasion- ally, and, as a matter of fact, such a restoration occurs at the very beginning of the development of each individual, being brought about by the union of a spermatozoon with an ovum. This union constitutes what is known as the fertilisation of the ovum. The fertilization of the human ovum has not yet been observed, but the phenomenon has been repeatedly studied32 THE in-.RTlIJZ.\TJON OK TJllv OVUM. in lower forms, and a thorough study of the process has been made on the mouse by Sobotta, whose observations are taken as a basis for the following account. The maturation of the ovum is quite independent of fer- tilization, but in many forms the penetration of the sperma- tozoon into the ovum takes place before the maturation phenomena are completed. This is the case with the mouse. A spermatozoon makes its way through the zona pellucida and becomes embedded in the cytoplasm of the ovum and its tail is quickly absorbed by the cytoplasm while its nucleus and probably the middle-piece persist as distinct structures. As soon as the maturation divisions are completed the nucleus of the ovum, now termed the female pronucleus (Fig. 15, ck), migrates toward the center of the ovum, and is now destitute of an archoplasm sphere and centro- some. the,'^^ iSt.r^^tli^'P'^ having disappeared after the mm^ pletion of the rngfr^^^i'^^"^ rli'vicmnc^ The spermatozoon nucleus, which, after it has penetrated the ovum, is termed the male pronucleus (spk), may lie at first at almost any point in the peripheral part of the cytoplasm, and it now begins to approach the female pronucleus, preceded by the middle-piece, which becomes an archoplasm sphere with its contained centrosome and is surrounded by astral rays. The two pronuclei finally come into contact near the center of the ovum, forming what is termed the segmentation nucleus (Fig. 15), and the archoplasm sphere and centro- some which have been introduced with the spermatozoon undergo division and the two archoplasm spheres so formed migrate to opposite poles of the segmentation nucleus, an amphiaster forms and the compound nucleus passes through the various prophases of mitosis. Since, in the mouse, the male and female pronuclei have each contributed twelve chromosomes, the equatorial plate of the mitosis is com- posed of twenty-four chromosomes, the number character- istic for the species being thus restored.33 THE FERTILIZATION OF THE OVUM. Fig. 15.—Six Stages in the Process of Fertilization of the Ovum of a Mouse. After the first stage figured it is impossible to determine which of the two nuclei represents the male or female pronucleus, ek, Female pronucleus; rki and r/v'2, polar globules; spk, male pronucleus.— {Sohotta.)THE FERTILIZATION OF THE OVUM. 34 It seems to be a rule that but one spermatozoon pene- trates the ovum. Many, of course, come into contact with it and endeavor to penetrate it, but so soon as one has been successful in its endeavor no further penetration of others occurs. The reasons for this are in most cases obscure; experiments on the ova of invertebrates have shown that the subjection of the ova to abnormal conditions which impair their vitality favors the penetration of more than a single spermatozoon {polyspermy), and, indeed, it appears that in some forms, such as the common newt {Diemycty- lus), polyspermy is the rule, only one of the spermatozoa, however, which have penetrated uniting with the female pronucleus, the rest being absorbed by the cytoplasm of the ovum. Fertilization marks the beginning of development, and it is therefore important that something should be known as to where and when it occurs. It seems probable that in the human species the spermatozoa usually come into contact with the ovum and fertilization ensues in the upper part of the Fallopian tubes, and the occurrence of extra- uterine pregnancy (see p. 21) seems to indicate that occa- sionally the ovum may be fertilized even before it has been received into the tube. It is evident, then, that when fertilization is accomplished the spermatozoon must have traveled a distance of about twenty-four centimeters, the length of the upper part of the vagina being taken to be about 5 cm., that of the uterus as 7 cm., and that of the tube as 12 cm. A considerable interval of time is required for the completion of this jour- ney, even though the movement of the spermatozoon be tolerably rapid. The observations of Henle and Hensen indicate that a spermatozoon may progress in a straight line at about the rate of from 1.2 to 2.7 mm. per minute, while Lott finds the rate to be as high as 3.6 mm. Assum-in|< iIm; rate pro;<rc'/j» t/^ Ia; aU/Ut 2,;^ uAn. \ftr minutir, the time mt\u\rt(\ )ty the %\}ermnUr//fint Uj travel fr^/fn tf»e iif4M;r part of the vajfina t/> tlie uj/jxrr f;art of a f'all//jHan tiilHJ will l>c al^/ut '/f)c ami a half h^/ur)t ^ ' rnn), 7h'i%, however, a«»sume*» that there are tur <A/ >n the way of the rapirl \>rof(ri:hn of the %\ftrmHU/7j..ukh h tv/t the ca«c, »»fice, in the first place, the irrcj(ularit)c*» and fold* of the Vm'tnfi m<mibrane of the tulx; render the i>ath of the s])em)HUr/jMm a labyrinthine ^/ne, and, secy^nrlly, the acti'^/n of the cilia of the ef/ithclium of the tulx; and uterus Ijcin^^ frr^m the mi'mm of the tulx; VjwhuI the o» uteri, it will fi^rcuDy rttird the ]fr(^rc%s; furthernv/rc, it i* yrtmtna^M that the rapidity of nv^vement of the %]ferm^Uf7/ft'm dimin- ishes after a cerUin interval of time. It 5*eem» j/r^/liable, therefore, that ferUVvz/dtum does nfA ocaxr ior f/tme hf/um after ajition, even prow'vYmi^ an ovum is in the tulje await- ing the 'd\/\>r(m:h of the s\)ervn^^y/JMm. Hut this c/m(\\\\(m is nrA netxssarily i^-esent, and c^/n- s€qucntly the question of the duration of the vitality of the sperm cell l>ecr/nies of imjx^rtance. Ahlfeld has f^Ain^l that, when kei>t at a \)r<jyex temjKrraturc, a 8permato//V>n will retain its vitality outside the Ixxly for ^ , awJ I-Hihrssen re\)<)rVr, a caf^e in which living^ iii/enitiiifj/jj'd. were found in a FalU^>ian tul^e remove^l fr^^/m a i^atient who ha^l last t>een t« cojVm alx/ut three- ' j^reviously. As r<^ards the duration of lot viUniiy oi ine ovum less accurate data are available. Hyrtl i(jutv\ an apparently normal ovum in the uterine pf^rtion of the left tulje of a female who died three flays after the occurrence of her sec^^md menstruation, and Issmer estimates the duratt^/n of the capacity for fertilization of an ovum to be atxmt sixteen it !■> evident, then, that even when the exact date of t!.': coitus which led to the fertilization is known, the actual36 SUPERFETATION. moment of the latter process can only be approximated, and in the immense majority of cases it is necessary to rely upon the date of the last menstruation for an estima- tion of the probable date of parturition. And by this method the possibilities for error are much greater. It has been seen that ovulation usually, though not invariably, is associated with menstruation, but it is uncertain whether the ovum whose fertilization has resulted in a pregnancy was expelled from its follicle during the last menstrual period which occurred, or during or just preceding the first omitted period. Both views have been advocated, but it seems probable that the latter case is the more frequent, the fertilized ovum being one which has been expelled from its follicle subsequent to the last menstruation which oc- curred. The duration of pregnancy is normally ten lunar or about nine calendar months and it is customary to esti- mate the probable date of parturition as nine months and seven days from the last menstruation. From what has been said, it is clear that any such estimation can be de- pended upon only as an approximation, the possible varia- tion from it being considerable. Superfetation.—The occasional occurrence of twin fetuses in different stages of development has suggested the possi- bility of the fertilization of a second ovum as the result of a coition at an appreciable interval of time after the first ovum has started upon its development. There seems to be good reason for believing that many of the cases of supposed siiper- fetaiion, as this phenomenon is termed, are instances of the simultaneous fertilization of two ova, one of which, for some cause concerned with the supply of nutrition, has later failed to develop as rapidly as the other. At the same time, how- ever, even although the phenomenon may be of rare occurrence, it is by no means impossible, for occasionally a second Graafian follicle, either in the same or the other ovary, may be so near maturity that its ovum is extruded soon after the first one, and if the development of the latter and the incidental changes in the uterine mucous membrane have not proceeded so far as to prevent the access of the spermatozoon to the ovum,LITERATURE. 37 its fertilization and development may ensue. The changes, however, which prevent the passage of the spermatozoon are completed early in development and the difference between the normally developed embryo and that due to superfetation will be comparatively small, and will become less and less evident as development proceeds, provided that the supply of nutrition to both embryos is equal. LITERATURE. E. Ballowitz : " Untersuchungen iiber die Struktur der Spermatozoen," No. 4. Zcitschr. fur zvisscnsch. Zool, Lir, 1891. K. VON Bardeleben : " Beitrage zur Histologic des Hodens und zur Spermatogenese beim Menschen," Archiv fur Anat. und Physiol, An at. Abth., Supplement, 1897. Th. Boveri: " Befruchtung," Ergchnisse der Anat. und Enizvicklungs- gesch., 1, 1892. J. G. Clark : " Ursprung, Wachsthum und Ende des Corpus luteuni nach Beobachtungen am Ovarium des Schweines und des Men- schen," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1898. L. Gerlach : " Ueber die Bildung der Richlungskorper bei Mus muscu- lus," Wiesbaden, 1906. V/. Heape: "The Sexual Season of Mammals and the Relation of the Prooestrum to Menstruation," Quart. Journ. Micros. Sci., N. S., XLiv, 1901 (contains very full bibliography). O. Hertwig : " Vergleich der Ei- vind Samenbildung bei Nematoden," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xxxvi, 1890. J. Jankowski : " Beitrag zur Entstehung des Corpus luteum der Sau- getiere," Arch. f. mikr. Anat., Lxiv, 1904. W. B. KiRKHAM : " The Maturation of the Mouse Egg," Biol. Bulletin, xir, 1907. M. voN Lenhossek : " Untersuchungen iiber Spermatogenese," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., 1.1, 1898. V. H. A. Marshall: "The CEstrus Cycle and the Formation of the Corpus luteum in the Sheep," Philos. Trans., Ser. B, cxcvi, 1904. F. H. A. Marshall: "The Development of the Corpus luteum: a Review," Quart. Journ. Micros. Sci., N. S., xlix, 1906. F. Meves : " Ueber Struktur und Histogenese der Samenfaden des Meerschweinchens," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., liv, 1899. W. Nagel: "Das menschliche Ei," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xxxi. 1888. G. Niesstng: "Die Betheiligung der Centralkorper und Sphare am Aufbau des Samenfadens bei Siiugethieren," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xLviii, 1896.LITERATURE. 38 W. RuBASCHKiN: " Ueber die Reifungs- und Befruchtungs-ptocesse des Meerschweincheneies," Anat. Hcfte, xxix, 1905. J. SoBOTTA: " Die Befruchtung und Furchung des Eies der Maus," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xlv, 1895. J. SoBOTTA: " Ueber die Bildung des Corpus luteum bei der Maus," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xlvii, 1897. J. SoBOTTA: " Ueber die Bildung des Corpus luteum beim Meersch- weinchen," Anat. Hefte, xxxii, igo6. P. Strassmann : " Beitrage zur Lehre von der Ovulation, Menstruation und Conception," Archiv fiir Gynackol, lii, 1896. W. Waldeyer: " Eierstock und Ei," Leipzig, 1870.39 CHAPTER 11. THE SEGMENTATION OF THE OVUM AND THE FORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. Segmentation.—The union of the male and female pro- nuclei has already been described as being accompanied by the formation of a mitotic spindle which produces a division of the ovum into two cells. This first division is succeeded at more or less regular intervals by others until a mass of cells is produced in which a differentiation eventually ap- pears. These divisions of the ovum constitute what is termed its segmmtation. The mammalian ovum has behind it a long line of evolu- tion, and even at early stages in its development it exhibits peculiarities which can only be reasonably explained as'' an inheritance of past conditions.'' One of the most potent factors in modifying the character of the segmentation of the ovum is the amount of food yolk which it contains, and it seems to be certain that the immediate ancestors of the mammalia were forms whose ova contained a considerable amount of yolk, many of the peculiarities resulting from its presence being still clearly indicated in the early develop- ment of the almost yolkless mammalian ovum. To give some idea of the peculiarities which result from the presence of considerable amounts of yolk it will be well to compare the processes of segmentation and differentiation seen in ova with different amounts of it. A little below the scale of the vertebrates proper is a form, Amphioxus, which possesses an almost yolkless ovum, presenting a simple process of development. The fertilizedTHE SEGMENTATION OF THE OVUM. 40 ovnm of Amphioxus in its first division separates into two similar and equal cells, and these are made four (Fig. i6, A) by a second plane of division which cuts the previous one at right angles. A third plane at right angles to both the preceding ones brings about an eight-celled stage (Fig. i6, B), and further divisions result in the formation of a large number of cells which arrange themselves in the form of a hollow sphere which is known as a hlastula (Fig. i6, E). Fig. i6.—Stages in the Seg MENTATION OF AlHpJllOXUS. A, Four-celled stage; B, eight-celled stage; C, sixteen-celled stage; D, early blastula; E, blastula; F, section of blastula.— (Hatschck.) The minute amount of yolk which is present in the ovum of Amphioxus collects at an early stage of the segmentation at one pole of the ovum, the cells containing it being some- what larger than those of the other pole (Fig. i6, B), and in the blastula the cells of one pole are larger and more richly laden with yolk than those of the other pole (Fig. i6, F). If, now, the segmenting ovum of an Amphibian be examined, it will be found that a very much greater amount of yolk is present and, as in y4/;//'/HV;.t-//^, it is located especially at one ])ole of the ovum. The first three planes of segmentation have the same relative positions as in41 .THE SEGMENTATION OF THE OVUM. Amphioxus (Fig. 16), but one of the tiers of cells of the eight-celled stage is very much smaller than the other (Fig., 17, B). In the subsequent stages of segmentation the small cells of the upper pole divide more rapidly than the larger ones of the lower pole, the activity of the latter seeming to be retarded by the accumulation of the yolk, and the result- Fig. ]7.~Stages in the Segmentation of Amblystoma.—(Eyclcs~ hymer.) ing blastula (Fig. 17, D) shows a very decided difference in the size of the cells of the two poles. In the ova of reptiles and birds the amount of yolk stored up in the ovum is very much greater even than in the am- phibia, and it is aggregated at one pole of the ovum of which it forms the principal mass, the yolkless protoplasm appearing as a small disk upon the surface of a relatively 5THE SEGMENTATION OF THE OVUM. 42 huge mass of yolk. The inertia of this mass of nutritive material is so great that the segmentation is confined to the small yolkless disk of protoplasm and affects consequently only a portion of the entire ovum. To distinguish this form of segmentation from that which affects the entire ovum it D Fig. i8.—Four Stages in the Segmentation of the Blastoderm OF THE Chick.—(Costc.) is termed merohlastic segmentation, the other form being known as holoblastic. In the ovum of a turtle or a bird the first plane of seg- mentation crosses the protoplasmic disk, dividing it into two practically equal halves, and the second plane forms at approximately right angles to the first one, dividing the disk into four quadrants (Fig. i8, A). The third division, like the two which precede it, is radial in position, while43 THE SEGMENTATION OF THE OVUM. the fourth is circular and cuts off the inner ends of the six cells previously formed (Fig. i8, D). The disk now con- sists of six central smaller cells surrounded by six larger peripheral ones. Beyond this period no regularity can be discerned in the appearance of the seg-mentation planes; but radial and circular divisions continuing to form, the disk becomes divided into a large number of cells, those at the center being much smaller than those at the periphery. In the meantime, however, the smaller central cells have begun Y Fig. 19.—Diagram Illustrating a Section of the Ovum of a Reptile at a Stage Corresponding to the Blastula of an Amphibian. bl, Blastoderm; Y, yolk-mass. to divide in planes parallel to the surface of the disk, which, tljoiIlMngL^L-sk^^ thus becomes a discoidal cell-mass. During the segmentation of the disk it has increased materially in size, extending further and further over the surface of the yolk, into the substance of which some of the lower cells of the discoidal cell-mass have penetrated. A comparison of the diagram (Fig. 19) of the ovum of a reptile at about this stage of development with the figure of the amphibian blastula (Fig. 17, D) will indicate the'44 •THE SEGMENTATION OF THE OVUM. similarity between the two, the large yolk-mass of the rep- tile (F) with the scattered cells which it contains corre- sponding to the lower pole cells of the amphibian blastula, the central cavity of which is practically suppressed in the reptile. Beyond this stage, however, the similarity becomes more obscured. The peripheral cells of the disk continue to extend over the surface of the yolk and finally completely ^enclose it, forming an enveloping layer which is completed =at the upper pole of the egg by the discoidal cell-mass, or, as it is usually termed, the blastoderm. Turning now to the mammalia,* it will be found that the ovum in the great majority is almost or quite as desti- tute of food yolk as is the ovum of Amphioxus, with the result that the segmentation is of the total or holoblastic type. It does not, however, proceed with that regularity which marks the segmentation of Amphioxus or an am- phibian, but while at first it divides into two slightly unequal cells (Fig. 20), thereafter the divisions become irregular, three-celled, four-celled, five-celled, and six-celled stages having been observed in various instances. Nor is the re- sult of the final segmentation a hollow vesicle or blastula, b^ a solid mass of cells, termed a morula, is formed. This structure is not, however, comparable to the blastula of the lower forms, but corresponds to a stage of reptilian devel- opment a little later than that shown in Fig. 19, since, as will be shown directly, the cells corresponding to the blasto- derm and the enveloping layer are already present. There is, then, no blastula stage in the mammalian development. Differentiation now begins by the peripheral cells of the morula becoming less spherical in shape and later forming a layer of flattened cells, the enveloping layer, surrounding * The segmentation of the human ovum has not yet been observed; what follows is based on what occurs in the ovum of the rabbit, mole, and especially of a bat (Van Beneden).45 THE SEGMENTATION OF THE OVUM. the more spherical central cells (Fig-. 21, A). In the latter vacuoles now make their appearance, especially in those cells which are nearest what may be regarded as the lower pole of the ovum (Fig. 21, C), and these vacuoles, gradually increasing in size, eventually become confluent, the condi- Fio. 20.—Four Stages in the Segmentation of the Ovum of a Mouse. X, Polar globule.—(Sobotta.) tion represented in Fig. 21, D, being produced. At this stage the ovum consists of an enveloping layer, enclosing a cavity which is equivalent to the volk-mass ol_the_reptiHaii o^oim^ the vacuolization of the inner cells of the morula representing a bejated formation of yolk. On the inner surface~orthi^nveloping layer, at what may be termed theTHE SEGMENTATION OF THE OVUM. 47 upper pole of the ovum, is a mass of cells projecting into the yolk-cavity and forming what is known as the inner cell-mass, a structure comparable to the blastoderm of the reptile. In one respect, however, a difference obtains, the inner cell-mass being completely enclosed within the envel- oping cells, which is not the case with the blastoderm of the reptile. That portion of the enveloping layer which covers the cell-mass has been teniied Raube/s covering layer, and probably owes its existence to the precocity of the formation of the enveloping layer. It is clear, then, that an explanation of the early stages of development of the mammalian ovum is to be obtained by a comparison, not with a yolkless ovum such as that of Amphioxus, but with an ovum richly laden with yolk, such as the meroblastic ovum of a reptile or bird. In these forms the nutrition necessary for the growth of the embryo and for the complicated processes of development is provided for by the storing up of a quantity of yolk in the ovum, the embryo being thus independent of external sources for food. The same is true also of the lowest mammalia, the Monotremes, which are egg-laying forms, producing ova resembling greatly those of a reptile. When, however, in the higher mammals the nutrition of the embryo became provided for by the attachment of the embryo to the walls of the uterus of the parent so that it could be nourished directly by the parent, the storing, up of yolk in the ovum was unnecessary and it became a holoblastic ovum, although many peculiarities dependent on the original meroblastic condition persisted in its development. Twin Development.—As a rule, in the human species but one embryo develops at a time, but the occurrence of twins is by no means infrequent, and triplets and even quadruplets occa- sionally are developed. The occurrence of twins may be due to two causes, either to the simultaneous ripening and fertiliza- tion of two ova, either from one or from both ovaries, or to the48 TWIN DEVELOPMENT AND DOUBLE MONSTERS. separation of a single fertilized ovum into two independent parts during the early stages of development. That twins may be produced by this latter process has been abundantly shown by experimentation upon developing ova of lower forms, each of the two cells of an Amphioxus ovum in that stage of development, if mechanically separated, completing its devel- opment and producing an embryo of about half the normal size. Double Monsters and the Duplicaiion of Parts.—The occa- sional occurrence of double monsters is explained by an imper- fect separation into two parts of an originally single embryo, the extent of the separation, and probably also the stage of development at which it occurs, determining the amount of fusion of the two individuals constituting the monster. All gradations of separation occur, from almost complete separa- tion, as seen in such cases as the Siamese twins, to forms in which the two individuals are united throughout the entire length of their bodies. The separation may also affect only a portion of the embryo, producing, for instance, double- faced or double-headed monsters or various forms of so-called parasitic monsters; and, finally, it may affect only a group of cells destined to form a special organ, producing an excess of parts, such as supernumerary digits or accessory spleens. It has been observed in the case of double monsters that one of the two fused individuals always has the position of its various organs reversed, it being, as it were, the looking- glass image of its fellow. Cases of a similar situs inversus visccrum, as it is called, have not infrequently been observed in single individuals, and a plausible explanation of such cases regards them as one of a pair of twins formed by the division of a single embryo, the other individual having ceased to develop and either having undergone degeneration or, if the separation was an incomplete one, being included within the body of the apparently single individual. Another explanation of situs inversus has been advanced (Conklin) on the basis of what has been observed in certain invertebrates. In some species of snails situs inversus is a normal condition and it has been found that the inversion may be traced back in the development even to the earliest segmentation stages. The conclusion is thereby indicated that its primary cause may reside in an inversion of the polarity of the ovum, evidence being forthcoming in favor of the view that even in the ovum of these and other forms there is probably a distinct polar differentiation. How far this view may be applicable to theFORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. 49 mammalian ovum is uncertain, but if it be applicable it ex- plains the phenomenon of inversion without complicating it with the question of twin-formation. The Formation of the Germ Layers.—During the stages which have been described as belonging to the seg- mentation period of development there has been but little differentiation of the cells. In Amphioxns and the am- phibians the cells at one pole of the blastula are larger and more yolk-laden than those at the other pole, and in the mammals an inner cell-mass can be distinguished from the enveloping cells, this latter differentiation having been anticipated in the reptiles and being a differentiation of a portion of the ovum from which alone the embryo will develop from a portion which will give rise to accessory structures. In later stages a differentiation of the inner cell-mass occurs, resulting first of all in the formation of a two-layered or diploblasiic and later of a three-layered or triplohlastic stage. Just as the segmentation has been shown to be profoundly modified by the amount of yolk present in the ovum and by its secondary reduction, so, too, the formation of the three primitive layers is much modified by the same cause, and to get a clear understanding of the formation of the triplo- hlastic condition of the mammal it will be necessary to de- scribe briefly its development in lower forms. In Amphioxus the diploblastic condition results from the flattening of the large-celled pole of the blastula (Fig. 22, A), and^ially from the invagination of this portion of the > ves|cle_within the other portion (Fig. 22, B). The original single-walled blastula in this way becomes converted into a double-walled sac termed a gastnila, the outer layer of wdiich is known as the ectoderm or epiblast and the inner layer as the endoderm or hypoblast. The cavity bounded by the endoderm is the primitive gut or archenteron, and50 FORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. the Opening by which this communicates with the exterior is the blastopore. This last structure is at first a very- wide opening, but as development proceeds it becomes smaller, and finally is a relatively small opening situated at the posterior extremity of what will be the dorsal surface of the embryo. As the oval embryo continues to elongate in its later development the third layer or mesoderm makes its appear- ance. It arises as a lateral fold [pip) of the dorsal surface of the endoderm (en) on each side of the middle line as indi- FiG. 22.—Two Stages in the Gastrulation of Amphioxus—{Morgan and Hazen.) cated in the transverse section shown in Fig. 23. This fold eventually become_s completely constricted pf¥ Jromlhe en- doderm and forms a hollow plate occupying the space between the ectoderm and endoderm, the cavity which it contains being the body-cavity or c^lom. " in the amphibia, where the amount of yolk is very much greater than in Amphioxus, the gastrulation becomes con- siderably modified. On the line where the large- and small- celled portions of the blastula become continuous a crescentic groove appears and, deepening, forms an invagination (Fig.FORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. 51 mp 23.—Transverse Section of 24, gc), the roof of which is composed of relatively small yoik-containiiig cells while its floor is formed by the large cells of the lower pole of the blastula. The cavity of the blastula is not sufficiently large to allow of the typical in- vagination of all these large cells, so that they become enclosed by the rapid growth of the ecto- derm cells of the upper pole of the ovum over them. Before this growth takes place the blastopore corresponds to the entire area occupied by the large yolk cells, but later, as the growth of the smaller cells gradually encloses Amphioxus Embryo with Five . Mesodermic Pouches. the larger ones, it be- ^j^^ Notochord; d, digestive cavity; comes smaller and is ec, ectoderm; cn, endoderm; m, finally represented by a small opening situated at what will be the hind end of the embryo. Soon after the archenteron has been formed a solid plate of cells, eventually splitting into two layers, arises from its roof on each side of the median line and grows out into the space between the ectoderm and endoderm (Fig. 25, ink^ and mk^), evidently corresponding to the hollow plates formed in the same situations in Amphioxus. This is not, however, the only source of the mesoderm in the amphibia, for while the blastopore is still quite large there may be found surrounding it between the endoderm and ectoderm a ring of mesodermal tissue (Fig. 24, mes). As the blas- topore diminishes in size and its lips come together and unite, the ring of mesoderm forms first an oval and then a band lying beneath the line of closure of the blastopore and united with both the superjacent ectoderm and the subja-FORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. 52 cent endoderm. Tliis line of fusion of the three germ layers is known as the primitive streak.. It is convenient to dis- tinguish the mesoderm of the primitive streak from that formed from the dorsal wall of the archenteron by speak- ing of the former as the prostomial and the latter as the gastral mesoderm, though it must be understood that the mes YiG. 24.—Section through a Gastrula of Amblystoma. dl, Dorsal lip of blastopore; gc, digestive cavity; gr, area of mesoderm formation; mes, mesoderm—{EyclesJiymer.) two are continuous immediately in front of the definitive blastopore. In the reptilia still greater modifications are found in the method of formation of the germ layers. Before the enveloping cells have completely surrounded the yolk-mass, a crescentic groove, resembling that occurring in amphibia, appears near the posterior edge of the blastoderm, the cells of which, in front of the groove, arrange themselves in a superficial layer one cell thick, which may be regarded as53 FORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. the ectoderm (Fig. 26, cc), and a subjacent mass of some- what scattered cells. Later the lowermost cells of this sub- jacent mass arrange themselves in a continuous layer, con- stituting what is termed the primary cndoderm {en^), while the remaining cell%, aggregated especially in the region of the crescentic groove, form the prostomial mesoderm (prm). In the region enclosed by the groove a distinct delimitation of the various layers does not occur, and this region forms the primitive streak. The groove now begins to deepen. Fig. 25.—Section through an Emhkyo Amphibian (Triton) of 22 Days, showing the Formation of the Gastral Mesoderm. ak. Ectoderm ;^ c/i, chorda endoderm; dk, digestive cavity; ik, endo- derm; mk^ and w/r, splanchnic and somatic layers of the' meso- derm. D, dorsal and V, \Qntrn\.~(Hcrtzvig.) forming an invagination of secondary endoderm, the extent of this invagination being, however, very different in dif- ferent species. In the gecko (Will) it pushes forward be- tween the ectoderm and primary endoderm almost to the anterior edge of the blastoderm, but later the cells forming its floor, together with those of the primary endoderm im- mediately below, undergo a degeneration, the roof cells at the lateral margins of the invagination becoming contin-FORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. 54 uous with the persisting portions of the primary endoderm (Fig. 27, B). This layer, following the enveloping cells in their growth over the yolk-mass, gradually surrounds that structure so that it comes to lie within the archenteron. In some turtles, on the other hand, the disappearance of the floor of the invagination takes place at a very early stage of the infolding, the roof cells only persisting to grow e/i ^ Fig. 26.—Longitudinal Sections through Embryos of the Gecko, SHOWING GasTRULATION. ec, Ectoderm; en, secondary endoderm; en , primarj' endoderm; t>rm, prostomial mesoderm.— (iVill.) forward to form the dorsal wall of the archenteron. This interesting abbreviation of the process occurring in the gecko indicates the mode of development which is found in the mammalia. The existence of a prostomial mesoderm in connection with the primitive streak has already been noted, and when the invagination takes place it is carried forward as a nar-55 FORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. row band of cells on each side of the sac of secondary endoderm. After the absorption of the ventral wall of the invag-ination a folding or turning in of the margins of the secondary endoderm occurs (Fig. 27), whereby its lumen becomes reduced in size and it passes off on each side into a double plate of cells which constitute the gastral meso- derm. Later these plates separate from the archenteron Fig. 27.—Diagrams Illustrating the Formation of the Gastral Mesoderm in the Gecko. ce, Chorda endoderm; cc, ectoderm; en, secondary endoderm; primary endoderm; gm, gastral mesoderm.— (Will.) as in the lower forms. All the prostomial mesoderm does not, however, arise from the primitive streak region, but a considerable amount also has its origin from the ectoderm covering the yolk outside the limits of the blastoderm proper, a mode of origin which serves to explain the phenomena later to be described for the mammalia. In comparison with the amphibians and Ainphioxus, the reptilia present a subordination of the process of invagina- tion in the formation of the endoderm, a primary endodermFORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. 56 making its appearance independently of an invagination, and, in association with this subordination, there is an early appearance of the primitive streak, which, from analogy {Van Beneden.) with what occurs in the amphibia, may be assumed to rep- resent a portion of the blastopore which is closed from the very beginning.57 FORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. Turning now to the mammalia, it will be found that these peculiarities become still more emphasized. The inner cell- mass of these forms corresponds to the blastoderm of the reptilian ovum, and the first differentiation which appears in it concerns the cells situated next the cavity of the vesicle, these_cdls differentiating t^ form a distinct layer which g-raduallyextends_so as to form a compkteJinjngL^^ inner surface of the enveloping cells, (Fig. 28, A). The layer so formed is endodermal and corresponds to the pri- mary endoderm of the reptiles. Before the extension of the endoderm is completed, how- ever, cavities begin to appear in the cells constituting the remainder of the inner mass, especially in those immediately beneath Rauber's cells (Fig. 28, B), and these cavities in time coalesce to form a single large cavity bounded above by cells of the enveloping layer and below by a thick plate of cells, the embryonic disk (Fig. 28, C). The cavity so formed is the amniotic cavity, whose further history will be considered in a subsequent chapter. It may be stated that this cavity varies greatly in its devel- opment in different mammals, being entirely absent in the rabbit at this stage of development and reaching an excessive development in such forms as the rat, mouse, and guinea-pig. The condition here described is that which occurs in the bat and the mole, and it seems probable, from what occurs in the youngest human embryos hitherto observed, that the processes in man are closely similar. While these changes have been taking place a splitting of the enveloping layer has occurred, so that the wall of the ovum is now formed of three layers, an outer one which may be termed the trophodcrni^ a middle one which prob- ably is transformed into the extra^eiTiljryonic mesoderm of later stages, though its significance is at present somewhat obscure, and an inner one which is the primary endoderm. In the bat, of whose ovum Fig. 28, C, represents a section,FORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. 58 that portion of the middle layer which forms the roof of the amniotic cavity disappears, only the trophoderm per- sisting in this region, but in another form this is not the case, the roof of the cavity being composed of both the trophoderm and the middle layer. A rabbit's ovum in which there is yet no amniotic cavity and no splitting of the enveloping layer shows, when viewed from above, a relatively small dark area on the surface. Fig. 29.—A, Side View of Ovum of Rabbit Seven Days Old (Kdllikcr) ; B, Embryonic Disk of a Mole {Heape) ; C, Embry- onic Disk of a Dog's Ovum of about Fifteen Days {Bonnet). ed, Embryonic disk; hn, Hensen's node; mg, medullar}' groove; ps, primitive streak; va, vascular area. which is the embryonic disk. But if it be looked at from the side (Fig. 29, A), it will be seen that the upper half of the ovum, that half in which the embryonic disk occurs, is somewhat darker than the lower half, the line of sepa- ration of the two shades corresponding with the edge of the primary endoderm which has extended so far in its growthFORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. 59 around the inner surface of the enveloping layer. A little later a dark area appears at one end of the embryonic disk, produced by a proliferation of cells in this region and having a somewhat crescentic form. As the embryonic disk in- creases in size a longitudinal band makes its appearance, extending forward in the median line nearly to the center of the disk, and represents the primitive streak (Fig. 29, B), a slight groove along its median line forming what is termed the primitive groove. In slightly later stages an especially dark spot may be seen at the front end of the primitive streak and is termed Hensens node (Fig. 29, C, hn), while Fig. 30.—Posterior Portion of a Longitudinal Section through THE Embryonic Disk of a Mole. bl, Blastopore, ec, ectoderm; en, endoderm; prnij prostomial meso- derm.— (After Heape.) still later a dark streak may be observed extending forward from this in the median line and is termed the head-process of the primitive streak. To understand the meaning of these various dark areas recourse must be had to the study of sections. A longi- tudinal section through the embryonic disk of a mole ovum at the time when the crescentic area makes its appearance is shown in Fig. 30. Here there is to be seen near the hinder edge of the disk what is potentially an opening (bl), in front of which the ectoderm (ec) and primary endodenn (en) can be clearly distinguished, while behind it no such distinction of the two layers is visible.' This stage may be regarded as comparable to a stage immediately preceding the invagination stage of the reptilian ovum, and the regionFORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. 6o behind the blastopore will correspond to the reptilian primi- tive streak. The later forward extension of the primitive streak is due to the mode of growth of the embryonic disk. Between the stages represented in Figs. 30 and 29, B, the disk has enlarged considerably and the primitive streak has shared in its elongation. Since the blastopore of the earlier stage is situated immediately in front of the anterior ex- tremity of the primitive streak, the point corresponding to it in the older disk is occupied by Hensen's node, this struc- ture, therefore, representing a proliferation of cells from the region formerly occupied by the blastopore. As regards the head process, it is at first a solid cord of cells which grows forward in the median line from Hansen's node, lying between the ectoderm and the primary endo- derm. Later a lumen appears in the center of the cord, forming what has been termed the chorda canal, and, in some forms, including man, the canal opens to the surface at the center of Hensen's node. The cord then fuses with the subjacent primary endoderm and then opens out along the line of fusion, becoming thus transformed into a flat plate of cells continuous at either side with the primary endoderm (Fig. 31, Chp). The portion of the chorda canal which traverses Hensen's node now opens below into what will be the primitive digestive tract and is termed the nctti en- teric canal (Fig. 32, nc) ; it eventually closes completely, being merely a transitory structure. The similarity of the head process to the invagination which in the reptilia forms the secondary endoderm seems clear, the only essential dif- ference being that in the mammalia the head process arises as a solid cord which subsequently becomes hollow, instead of as an actual invagination. The difference accounts for the occurrence of Hensen's node and also for the mode of formation of the neurenteric canal, and cannot be considered as of great moment since the development of what areFORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. 6l eventually tubular structures (c. g., glands) as solid cords of cells which subsequently hollow out is of common occur- rence in the mammalia. It should be stated that in some mammals apparently the most anterior portion of the roof i0- J Fig. 31.—Transverse Section of the Embryonic Area of a Dog's Ovum at about the Stage of Development shown in Fig. 29, C. The section passes through the head process (Chp) ; M, mesoderm.— (Bonnet.) of the archenteron is formed directly from the cells of the primary endoderm, which in this region are not replaced by the head process, but aggregate to form a compact plate of cells with which the anterior extremity of the head proc- FiG. 32.—Diagram of a Longitudinal Section through the Em- bryonic Disk of a Mole. ant, Amnion; cc, chorda endoderm; ec, ectoderm; nc, neurenteric canal; ps, primitive streak.— {Heapc.) ess unites. Such a condition would represent a further modification of the original condition. As regards the formation of the mesoderm it is possible to recognize both the prostomial and gastral mesoderm inFORMATION OF THE GERM LAYERS. 62 the mammalian ovum, though tlie two parts are not so clearly distinguishable as in lower forms. A mass of pro- stomial mesoderm is formed from the primitive streak, and when the head process grows forward it carries with it some of this tissue. But, in addition to this, a contribution to the mesoderm is also apparently furnished by the cells of the head process, in the form of lateral plates situated on each side of the middle line. These plates are at first solid (^'^S- 33' ^"0' but their cells quickly arrange themselves in twoja^-s, between which a ccelomic space later appears. Fig. 33.—Transverse Section through the Embryonic Disk of a Rabbit. ch, Chorda endoderm; ce, ectoderm; cn, endoderm; gm, gastral meso- derm.— {After van Bcncdcn.) Furthermore, as has already been pointed out, the layer of enveloping cells splits into two concentric layers, the inner of which seems to be mesodermal in its nature and forms a layer lining the interior of the trophoderm and lying between this and the primary endoderm. This layer is by no means so evident in the lower forms, but is perhaps represented in the reptilian ovum by the cells which underlie the ectoderm in the regions peripheral to the blastoderm proper (see p. 55). It has been experimentally determined (Assheton, Peebles) that in the chick, whose embryonic disk presents many features similar to those of the mammalian ovum, the central point of the unincubated disk corresponds to the anterior end of the primitive streak and to the point situated immediately behindSIGNIFICANCE OF THE GERM LAYERS. 63 the heart of the later embryo and immediately in front of the first mesodermic somite (see p. 103), as shown in Fig. 34. If these results be regarded as applicable to the human embryo, then it mav be supposed that in this the head region is devel- oped from'the portion of the embryonic disk situated in front A BCD Fig. 34.—Diagrams Illustrating the Relations of the Chick Embryo to the Primitive Streak at Different Stages of De- velopment.— (Peebles.) of Hensen's node, while the entire trunk is a product of the region occupied by the node. The Significance of the Germ Layers.—The formation of the three germ layers is a process of fundamental impor- • tance, sincejt^s_a differentiation, o£ the cell units of the ovum into tissues which have definite tasks to fulfil. As has been seen, the first stage in the development of the layers is the formation of the ectoderm and endoderm, or, if the physiological nature of the layers be considered, it is the differentiation of a layer, the endoderm, which has64 SIGNIFICANCE OF THE GERM LAYERS. principally nutritive functions. In certain of the lower invertebrates, the class Coelentera, the differentiation does not proceed beyond this diploblastic stage, but in all higher forms the intermediate layer is also developed, and with its appearance'^a further division of the functions of the organ- > ism supervenes, the ectoderm, situated upon the outside of / the body, assuming the relational functions, the endoderm I becoming still more exclusively nutritive, while the remain- I ing functions, supportive, excretory, locomotor, reproduc- I tive, etc., are assumed by the mesoderm.^ The manifold adaptations of development obscure in cer- tain cases the fundamental relations of the three layers, certain portions of the mesoderm, for instance, failing to differentiate simultaneously with the rest of the layer and appearing therefore to be a portion of either the ectoderm or endoderm. But, as a rule, the layers are structural units of a higher order than the cells, and since each assumes definite physiological functions, definite structures have their origin from each. Thus from the ectoderm there develop: 1. The epidermis and its appendages, hairs, nails, epi- dermal glands, and the enamel of the teeth. 2. The epithelium lining the mouth and the nasal cavities, as well as that lining the lower part of the rectum. 3. The nervous system and the nervous elements of the sense-organs, together with the lens of the eye. From the endoderm develop : 1. The epithelium lining the digestive tract in general, together with that of the various glands associated with it, such as the liver and pancreas. 2. The lining epithelium of the larynx, trachea, and lungs. 3. The epithelium of the bladder and urethra (in part). From the mesoderm there are formed: I. The various connective tissues, including bone and the teeth (except the enamel).LITERATURE. 7 2. The muscles, both striated and non-striated. 3. The circulatory system, including the blood itself and the lymphatic system. 4. The lining membrane of the serous cavities of the body. 5. The kidneys and ureters. 6. The internal organs of reproduction. From this list it will be seen that the products of the mesoderm are more varied than those of either of the other layers. Among its products are organs in which in either the embryonic or adult condition the cells are arranged in a definite layer, while in other structures its cells are scat- tered in a matrix of non-cellular material, as, for example, in the connective tissue, bone, cartilage, and the blood and lymph. It has been proposed to distinguish these two forms of mesoderm as mesothcliuni and niescnch\mte respectively, a distinction which is undoubtedly convenient, though prob- ably devoid of the fundamental importance which has been attributed to it by some embryologists. LITERATURE. R. AssHETON : " The Reinvestigation into the Early Stages of the De- velopment of the Rabbit," Quarterly Journ. of Microsc. Science, xxxvii, 1894. R. AssHETON: " The Development of the Pig During the First Ten Days," Quarterly Journ. of Microsc. Science, xli, 1898. R. Assheton: "The Segmentation of the Ovum of the Sheep, with Observations on the Hypothesis of a Hypoblastic Origin for the Trophoblast," Quarterly Journ. of Microsc. Science, XLi, 1898. E. VAN Beneden: " Recherches sur les premiers stades du developpe- ment du Murin (Vespertilio murinus)," Anatom. Anseiger, xvi, 1899. R. Bonnet : " Beitrage zur Embryologie der Wiederkauer gewonnen am Schafei," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1884 and 1889. R. Bonnet : " Beitnige zur Embryologie des Hundes," Anat Hefte ix 1897. . ' '66 LITERATURE. G. Born : " Erste Entwickelungsvorgange," Ergcbnisse der Anat. und Entzvicklungsgesch., i, 1892. E. G. CoNKLiN: " The Cause of Inverse Symmetry," Anatoin. Anzeiger, XXIII, 1903. A. C. Eycleshymer: "The Early Development of Amblystoma with Observations on Some Other Vertebrates," Journ. of Morphol., x, 1895. B. Hatschek: " Studien iiber Entwickhmg des Amphioxus," Arheiten aus dem zoolog. Instit. zu Wien, iw, 1881. y^. Heape: "The Development of the Mole (Talpa europsea)," Quar- ', terly Journ. of Microsc. Science, xxiii, 1883. A. A. W. HuBRECHT: " Studies on Mammalian Embryology II: The Development of the Germinal Layers of Sorex vulgaris," Quar- terly Journ. of Microsc. Science, xxxi, 1890. F. Keibel: "Studien zur Entwicklungsgeschichte des Schweines," Mor- pholog. Arheiten, in, 1893. M. KuNSEMULLER: "Die Eifurchung des Igels (Erinaceus europseus ■■ ■■ L.)," Zeitschr. fiir missensch. Zool, lxxxv, 1906. K. MiTSUKURi and C. Ishikawa : " On the Formation of the Germinal Layers in Chelonia," Quarterly Journ. of Microsc. Science, xxvii, 1887. F. Peebles : " The Location of the Chick embryo upon the Blasto- derm," Journ. of Exper. Zool, \, 1904. E. Selenka : " Studien iiber Entwickelungsgeschichte der Thiere," 4tes Heft, 1886-87; 5tes Heft, 1891-92. J. SoBOTTA: " Die Befruchtung und Furchung des Eies der Maus," Archiv fi'ir mikrosk. Anat., xlv, 1895. J. SoBOTTA: " Die Furchung des Wirbelthiereies," Ergcbnisse der Anat. und Entwickelungsgeschichte, vi, 1897. •J. SoBOTTA: " Neuere Auschauungen iiber die Entstehung der Doppel (miss) bildungen, mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der mensch- lichen Zwillingsgeburten," Wiirzhurger Abhandl, i, 1901. H. H. Wilder: "Duplicate Twins and Double Monsters," Amer. Jour, of Anat., Ill, 1904. L. Will: " Beitrage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Reptilien," Zoolog. Jahrbiicher, Abth. fur Anat, vi, 1893.67 CHAPTER III. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE EXTERNAL FORM OF THE HUMAN EMBRYO. The youngest human ovum at present known is that described by Peters. It was taken from the uterus of a ^ Fig. 35.—Section of Embryo and Adjacent Portion of an Ovum of I MM. ^ am. Amniotic cavity; cc, chorionic ectoderm; cm, chorionic mesoderm; cc, embryonic ectoderm; cn, endoderm; m, embryonic mesoderm; ys, yolk-sac.— (Peters.) woman who had committed suicide one calendar month after the last menstruation, and it measured about i mm. in diameter. The entire inner surface of the trophoderm (Fig. 35, ce) was lined by a layer of mesoderm (cm), which,68 DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. ft on the surface furthest away from the uterine cavity, was considerably thicker, than elsewhere, forming an area of attachment of the embryo to the wall of the ovum. In the substance of this thickening was the amniotic cavity (am), whose roof was formed by flattened cells, which, at the sides, became continuous with a layer of columnar cells forming the floor of the cavity and constituting the em- bryonic ectoderm (ec). Immediately below this was a layer Fig. 36.—Diagrams to show the Probable Relationships of the Parts in the Embryos Represented in Figs. 28, C, and 35. Ac, Amniotic cavity; C, extra-embryonic body-cavity; Me, (in figure to the left) mesoderm, (in figure to the right) somatic mesoderm; Me', splanchnic mesoderm; D, digestive tract; En, endoderm; T, trophoblast. The broken line in the mesoderm of the figure to the left indicates the line along which the splitting of the meso- derm occurs. of mesoderm (in) which split at the edge of the embryonic disk into two layers, one of which became continuous with the mesodermic thickening and so with the layer of meso- derm lining the interior of the trophoderm, while the other enclosed a sac lined by a layer of endodermal cells and termed the yolk-sac (ys). The total length of the embr3ro was aj_9^inni., and so far as its ectoderm and mesoderm are concerned it might be described as a flat disk resting on the surface of the yolk-sac, though it must he understood that69 DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. the yolk-sac also to a certain extent forms part of the embryo. This embryo seems to be in an early stage of the primi- tive streak formation, before the development of the head process. On comparing it with the ovum of a bat in ap- proximately the stage of development represented in Fig. 28, C, it will be seen to present some important advances (Fig. 36). It seems clear that the yolk-sac is equivalent to what was the cavity of the ovum in the earlier stages, and consequently the cavity (c) into which the yolk-sac projects is unrepresent^r] in ttTen^aF^' lnajnTT" How tHTs cavity is formed can only be conjectured, but it seems probable that it arises by the splitting of the layer of cells which lines the interior of the trophoderm in the bat's ovum (or perhaps by the vacuolization of the central cells of this layer) and the subsequent accumulation of fluid between the two mesodermal layers so formed. However that may be, it seems clear that the size of the human ovum is due mainly to the rapid growth of this cavity, which, as future stages show, is the extra-embryonic portion of the body^ cavity the splitting or vacuolization of the mesoderm by which [t i^ probably formed being the precocious appear- ance of the ty])ical splitting of the nip^ndern-^ to. form the embryonic body-cavitv which, as will be seen in a subse- quent chapter, takes place only at a later stage of develop- ^ ment. Froni now on the trophoderm and the layer of me- soderm lining it may together be spoken of as the chorion, the mesoderm layer being termed the chorionic mesoderm. A human embryo of a somewhat greaTeF age~(Fig! 37), measuring about jnm. in length, has been described by Graf Spec as embryo v.H., and was taken from an ovum estimated to measure 6 by 4.5 mm. in diameter. Notwith- standing the much greater size of the ovum, which is due to the continued increase in the size of the extra-embryonic70 DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. coelom, the embryo is but little advanced beyond the stage which the Peters' embryo had reached, and is probably in a late stage of the development of the primitive streak. Con- fining the attention for the present solely to the embryo and the immediately adjoining parts, it will be seen that the thickening of the chorionic mesoderm which encloses the amniotic cavity has increased in size and now forms a ped- icle, known:as the belly-stalk (b),at the extremity of which is the yolk-sac (3;). Furthermore, the amniotic cavity (a) Fig. 37.—Ovum Measuring 6 X 4.5 MM. The Left Half of THE Chorion has Been Re- moved TO show the Embryo. a, Amniotic cavity; b, belly-stalk; chorion; e, embryonic disk; V, chorionic villus; 31, yolk-sac. —(von Spec.) Fig. 38.—Embryo 1.54 mm. in Length, from the Dorsal Surface. a. Amnion ; m, medullary groove; nc, neurenleric canal; ps, primi- tive streak; y, yolk-sac.— (von Spec.) now lies somewhat excentrically in this pedicle, being near what may be spoken of as its anterior surface. The em- bryo still possesses a discoidal form and may still be de- scribed as a flat disk floating on the surface of the yolk-sac. This same general form is preserved in another embryo, known as embryo Gle, described by Graf Spee, which meas- ured i.j^4 mm. in length (Fig. 38). In it, however, the more median portion of the embryonic disk has become7.1 DEVELOPMENt OF EXTERNAL FORM. thicker and is separated from the more peripheral portions by a distinct furrow. From the more median or axial por- tion the embryo proper will develop, and this portion is now shaped somewhat like the body of a violin and presents at its posterior portion the remains of the primitive streak, near the anterior end of which is a distinct pore, the open- ino- of what is termed the nciirenteric canal (nc), whose Fig. 39.—Diagrams Illustrating the Constriction of the Embryo FROM THE Yolk-sac. A and C are longitudinal, and B and D transverse sections. B is drawn to a larger scale than the other figures. significance has already been discussed (p. 60). More anteriorly two longitudinal ridges have appeared, the first indications of which are termed the medullary folds. In later stages a separation or constriction of the embryo from the yolk-sac begins and results in the transformation of the discoidal embryonic portion of the embryonic disk into a cylindrical structure. Primarily this depends upon the deepening of the furrow which surrounds the embryonic area, the edges of this area l^eing tlius bent in on all sidesDEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. 72 toward the yolk-sac. This bending in proceeds most rap- idly at the anterior end of the body, as shown in the dia- grams (Fig. 39), and least rapidly at the posterior end where the belly-stalk is situated, and produces a constriction of the yolk-sac, the portion of that structure nearest the embryonic disk becoming enclosed within the body of the embryo to form the digestive tract, while the remainder is converted into a pedicle-like portion, the yolk-stalk, at the extremity of which is the yolk-vesicle. The further con- tinuance of the folding in of the edges of the embryonic area leads to an almost com- plete closing in of the di- gestive tract and reduces the Fig. 40.-EMBRY0 2.5 mm. Long, opening through which the am, Fragment of the torn am- yolk-stalk and belly-Stalk nion; mg, medullary groove; communicate with the em- Y, yolk-sac.— {Allen Thomp- son.) bryonic tissues to a small area known as the nnihiliciis. An embryo which exhibits an early stage in the process of constriction has been described by Allen Thompson and is represented in Fig. 40.* It measured about 2.5 mm. in length and had reached a stage in which the medullary folds had become very pronounced and their edges had come into contact at one portion, although the anterior and posterior portions of the groove {mg) between them were still widely open. The embryo will be seen from the figure to project somewhat both in front of and behind the yolk- sac, although the greater part of its ventral surface is still formed by that structure. At the sides also it is well sepa- rated from the yolk-sac, and resting upon the sac in front is a swelling which represents the heart. * It must be noted that in the figure neither the amnion (except for a small fragment still persisting in front) nor the belly-stalk is rcprcsenlcd.73 DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. 111 another embryo (Fig*. 41), slightly smaller though evidently older than the preceding one, and described by Eternod, the edges of the medullary folds have not only come into contact throughout the greater portion of their length, but they have fused together, the groove between them being open only in front and behind. On each side of the median line eight somewhat oblong areas are to be Fig. 41.—Reconstruction of Embryo 2.11 mm. Long. al, Allantoi.s; am, amnion; B, belly-stalk; ch, chorion; h, heart; ms, mesodermic somite; os, oral fossa; ph, pharynx; v, chorionic villi; Y, yolk-sac—{After Eternod.) distinguished, caused by a transverse division of the sub- jacent mesoderm into what are termed mesodermic somites x {ms), structures which will be described in detail in the succeeding chapter. The separation of the embryo from the yolk-sac (F) has advanced considerably and the sac shows evident indications of constriction just where it meets 874 DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. the body of the embryo. The head projects more markedly beyond the anterior surface of the yolk-sac and is separated am ^, ■ -X 42.—Emrryo 2.5 MM. Long. am Amnion- S, belly-stalk; h, heart; M, closed, and M', still open Portions of the nneduUary groove; Om, omphalo-mesentenc vein; OS, oral fossa; Y, yolk-sac—(i^o//ma«n.) from the reg'ion occupied by the heart {h) by a deep and well-marked depression, the oral fossa (os). In an embryo described by Kollmann (Fig. 42) and75 DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. measuring 2.5 mm. in length,* the edges of the medullary folds (M) had come into contact throughout their entire length, except for a short distance anteriorly (Af^), and thirteen mesodermic somites were visible. The constric- tion of the yolk-sac was even more pronounced than in the preceding embryo and the hind end of the body had am If: Fig. 43.—Embryo Lg, 2.15 mm. Long. am, Amnion; B, belly-stalk; chorion; h, heart; Y, yolk-sac—(His.) become defined, the belly-stalk no longer seeming to be a posterior continuation of the body but arising from the posterior part of the ventral surface. The oral fossa (OS) was also more marked, and it may be noticed that the * The embryo was measured only after having been preserved in alcohol, and the actual length was probably somewhat greater than this.DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. 76 t dorsal surface of the body was distinctly concave from before backward, a peculiarity which becomes more pro- nounced in a later stage and constitutes what is termed the dorsal flexure. This is well shown in an embryo described by His and named by him embryo lxviii (Lg) (Fig. 43). In it the yolk-sac forms a much smaller portion of the ventral sur- face than it did in earlier stages, and it has also become distinctly separated from the belly-stalk. The most pecu- liar feature of this embryo is, however, the dorsal flexure. This is apparently a normal feature and is probably pro- duced by a difference in the rate of growth of the lateral and median portions of the outer layer of the embryonic mesoderm, the former portion failing to keep pace with the growth of the latter, which becomes folded in accom- modation to the strain. The flexure is of comparatively short duration, and when once it begins to disappear it seems to do so rapidly, the dorsal concavity suddenly be- coming a convexity and the tension of the layer coming into equilibrium in the new position. One other feature is noteworthy in this embryo-—namely, the occurrence of two linear vertical depressions a little behind the head region of the embryo; these are the first representatives of a series of branchial clefts. These structures are of great morphological importance, inasmuch as they determine to a large extent the arrange- ment of various organs of the head region. They repre- sent the clefts which exist in the walls of the phar3aix in fishes, through which water, taken in at the mouth, passes to the exterior, bathing on its way the gill filaments attached to the bars or arches, as they are termed, which separate successive clefts. Hence the name " branchial " which is applied to them, though in the mammals they never have respiratory functions to perform, but, appearing, persistDEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. 77 for a time and then either disappear or are applied to some entirely different purpose. Indeed, in man they are never really clefts but merely grooves, and corresponding to each groove in the ectoderm there is also one in the subjacent endoderm of what will eventually be the pharyngeal region of the digestive tract, so that in the region of each cleft the ectoderm and endoderm are in close relation, being sepa- rated only by a very thin layer of mesoderm, while in the intervals between suc- cessive clefts a more con- siderable amount of meso- derm is present (Fig. 44). In the human embryo four clefts develop on each side of the body and five branchial arches, the last arch lying posteriorly to the fourth cleft and not being very sharply defined along its posterior margin. As just stated, the clefts are normally merely grooves, and in later development either disappear or are converted into special structures. Occasionally, however, a cleft may persist and the thin membrane which forms its floor may become per- forated so that an opening from the exterior into the pharynx occurs at the side of the neck, forming what is termed a branchial fistula. Such an abnormality is most frequently de- veloped from The lower (ventral) part of the first cleft; nor- mally this disappears, the upper portion persisting, however, to form the external auditory meatus and tympanic cavity. The embryo lxviii (Lg) just described measured 2.11 mm. in length, this measurement, however, being taken along a straight line and not following the flexure of the body. It does not, therefore, represent the actual length of the body and there is much less difference between this Fig. 44.~-Floor of the Pharynx OF Embryo B, 7 mm. Long. Ep, Epiglottis; Sp, sinus praecervi- calis; t\ anterior, and f, pos- terior portions of tlie tongue; /, II, 111, and /F, branchial arches. — (His.)78 DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM.79 DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. and the next to be described than is implied by the figures. This embryo (Fig. 45) is also one of those described by His and is known as embryo lxvii (Lr). It measures 4.2 mm. in length and shows an almost complete disappearance of the dorsal flexure so marked in embryo Lxviii. Instead of this, it presents a well-marked ventral bending of lx)th the anterior and posterior portions of the body, so that the dorsal surface is prominently curved in the regions which will later be the nape of the neck and the sacral region, and consequently the convexities may be known as the neck bend and the sacral bend. Furthermore, there is noticeable a ventral projection of the extreme front end of the body, so that a third convexity occurs anterior to the neck bend and may be termed the head bend. The constriction of the yolk-sac has progressed; the meso- dermic somites have almost reached their maximum devel- opment and are very distinct; the two branchial clefts pres- ent in the preceding embryo have increased in size and the third cleft has made its appearance; two small elevations of the sides of the body, one almost opposite the neck bend and the other opposite the sacral bend, are the first indica- tions of the limbs (Ul and LI) ; and the eyeball and ear vesicle (au), which were present though not very evident ni earlier stages, are now plainly visible in surface views. In the next stage—as a type of which an embryo figured by Coste (Fig. 46) may be taken—the three bends of the body mentioned alx)ve have greatly increased, so that the head and tail of the embryo are almost in contact and the latter is bent a little toward one side. The closure of the * ventral surface of the body is almost completed and the margins of the umbilicus have begun to be prolonged ven- trally so as to enclose the yolk-stalk and belly-stalk in the umbilical cord. The yolk-sacjiasjncreased considerably m_ length and the (liffeLentiati,oii^.of its'extra-enibrvnnir por^8o DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. Fig. 46.—Embryo of from Twenty to Twenty-five Days. Am, Amnion; LL, lower limb; UA, umbilical artery; Uc, umbilical cord; UL, upper limb; Ys, yolk-sac.— (Coste.)DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. 81 tions into a j^olk-stalk nnd yolk-vesirlp I'c; plgjjiI^^^jjliQf^^^ giiishable. The limb rudiments have increased somewhat in size, and, in addition to the eyeball and ear vesicle, a third sense-organ has made its appearance in the form of two pits situated on the under side of the anterior portion of the head; these pits are the first indications of the nasal fosscu. The fourth branchial cleft has appeared and those formed Fig. 47.—Embryo 9.1 mm. Long. LI, Lower limb; U, umbilical cord; Ul, upper limb; Y, yolk-sac—(//w.) earlier have elongated so that they almost reach the mid- ventral line, and from the dorsal part of the anterior border of the first arch a strong process has developed so that the arch on each side is somewhat <-shaped. The upper limb of each V is destined to give rise to the upper jaw, and82 DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. hence is known as the maxillary process, while the lower hmb represents the lower jaw and is termed the mandibular process. Leaving aside for the present all consideration of the further development of the limbs and branchial arches, the further evolution of the general form of the body may be rapidly sketched. In an embryo (Fig. 47) from Ruge's collection, described and figured by His and measuring Fig. 48.—Embryo Br,, 13.6 mm. Long.—(i7w.) 9j_nTm. in length,* the prolongation of the margins of the umbilicus has increased until more than half the yolk-stalk has become enclosed within the umbilical cord. The neck and sacral bends are still very pronounced, although the embryo is beginning to straighten out and is not quite so much coiled as in the preceding stage. At the posterior * This measurement is taken in a straight line from the most anterior portion of the neck bend to the middle point of the sacral bend and does not follow the curvature of the embryo. It may be spoken of as the neck-rump length and is convenient for use during the stages when the embryo is coiled upon itself.DEVELOPMENT OP"" EXTERNAL FORM. .83 end of the body there has developed a rather abruptly con- ical tail filament, in the place of the blunt and gradually tapering termination seen in earlier stages, and a well- marked rotundity of the abdomen, due to the rapidly in- creasing size of the liver, begins to become evident. In later stages the enclosure of the yolk- and belly-stalks within the umbilical cord proceeds until finally the cord is complete through the entire interval between the embryo Pig. 49.—A, Embryo 15 mm. Long (showing Ectopia of the Heart) ; B, Embryo L3, 17.5 mm. Long—(His.) and the wall of the ovum. At the same time the straight- ening out of the embryo continues, as may be seen in Fig. 48 representing the embryo xlv (Br.^) of His, which shows also, both in front of and behind the neck bend, a distinct depression, the more anterior being the occipital and the more posterior the neck depression; both these depressions are the expressions of changes taking place in the central nervous system. The tail filament has become moreDEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. 84 marked, and in the head region a shght ridge surrounding the eyeball and marking out the conjunctival area has appeared; a depression anterior to the nasal fossae marks off the nose from the forehead; and the external ear, whose development will be considered later on, has become quite distinct. This embryo had a neck-rump length of 13.6 mm. In the embryos xxxv (S2) and xcix (L3) (Fig. 49, A and B) of His' collection the straightening out of the neck bend is proceeding, and indeed is almost completed in em- bryo xcix, which begins to resemble closely the fully formed fetus. The tail filament, somewhat reduced in size, still persists and the rotundity of the abdomen continues to be well marked. The neck' region is beginning to be distin- guishable in embryo xxxv and in embryo xcix the eyelids have appeared as slight folds surrounding the conjunctival area. The nose and forehead are clearly defined by the greater development of the nasal groove and the nose has also become raised above the general surface of the face, while the external ear has almost acquired its final fetal form. These embryos measure respectively about 15 and 17.5 mm. in length.* Finally, an embryo—again one of those described by His, namely, his lxxvii (Wt), having a length of 23 mm.— may be figured (Fig. 50JL as representing the practical acquisition of the fetal form. This embryo dates from \about the end of the second month of pregnancy, and from this period onward it is proper to use the term fetus rather than that of embryo. The changes which have been de- scribed in preceding stages are now complete and it remains only to be mentioned that the caudal filament, which is still prominent, gradually disappears in later stages, becoming, as it were, submerged and concealedj3a^ejithjicljacenn.^arts * The embryo xxxv presents a slight abnormality in the great pro- jection of the heart, but otherwise it appears to be normal.DEVELOPMENT OF EXTERNAL FORM. by the development of the buttocks. The incompleteness of the development of these regions in embryo lxxvii is manifest, not only from the projection of the tail filament, but also from the external genitalia being still largely visible Fig. 50.—Embryo Wt, 23 mm. Long.—(Hij.) in a side view of the embryo, a condition which will dis- appear in later stages. The Later Development of the Branchial Arches, and the Development of the Face.—In Coste's embryo (Fig. 46) the four branchial clefts and five arches which develop in the human embryo are visible in surface views, but in the Ruge embryo (Fig. 47) it will be noticed that only the firstDEVELOPMENT OF THE BRANCHIAL ARCHES. 86 two, arches, the firsMvith a well-developed maxillary proc- _ess^ jind the cleft separating them can l)e distinguished. Tliis is due to a sinking" inward of the region occupied by the three posterior arches so that a triangular depression, the siniis_j^'^cejTi>iQalis., is formed on each side of what will later become the anterior i^art ot the neck region. This is well shown in an embryo (Brg) descril)C(l by His which measured 6.9 mm. in length and of which the anterior por- tion is shown in Fig. 51. The anterior boundary of the PiG_ 51.—Head of Embryo of 6.9 mm. na, Nasal pit; ps, precervical sinus.—(Hw.) sinus {ps) is formed by the posterior edge of the second arch and its postei'ior boundary by the thoracic wall, and m later stages \hese~two boundaries gradually approach one another so as f^rst of all to diminish the opening into the sinus and later to completely obhterate it by fusing together, the sinus thus becoming converted into_a completely closed cavity whose'floor is formed by the ectoderm covering the87 DEVELOPMENT OF THE BRANCHIAL ARCHES. three posterior arches and the clefts separating these. Jhis cavity eventually undergoes degeneration, no traces of it oca^FHHi^iormany'in the adult, although certain cysts occa- sionall^ observed in the sides of the neck may represent persisting portions of it. ' A somewhat similar process results in the closure of Jhfi, ventral portion of_the first cleft * a fold growing backward fronT'the'ijostenor'edge of the first arch and fusing with the'ventral part of the aiiteriorboTde^ Fig. 52.—Face of Embryo of 8 mm. mxp, Maxillary process; n(y, nasal pit; os, oral fossa; pg, processus globularis.— (His.) The upper part of the cleft persists, however, and, as already stated, forms the external auditory meatus, the pinna of the ear being developed from the adjacent parts of the first and second arches (Figs. 48 and 49). The region immediately in front of the first arch is occu- pied by a rather deep depression, the oral fossa, whose * See page 77, small type.DEVELOPMENT OF THE FACE. 88 early development has already been traced. In an embryo measuring 8 mm. in length (Fig. 52) the fossa (os) has assumed a somewhat irregular quadrilateral form. Its pos- terior boundary is formed by the mandibular processes of the first arch, while laterally it is bounded by the maxillary processes (mxp) and anteriorly by the free edge of a median plate, termed the nasal process, which on either side i -piG. 53.—Face of Embryo after the Completion of the Upper Jaw.— (His.) of the median line is elevated to form a marked protuber- ance, the processus globulans (pg). The ventral ends of the maxillary processes are widely separated, the nasal process and the processus globulares intervening between them, and they are also separated from the globular proc--89 DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIMBS. esses by a deep and rather wide groove which anteriorly opens into a circular depression, the nasal pit (np). Later on the maxillary and globular processes unite, obliterating the groove and cutting off the nasal pits— which have by this time deepened to form the nasal fossae —from direct communication with the mouth, with which, however, they later make new communications behind the maxillary processes, an indication of the anterior and pos- terior nares being thus produced. Occasionally the maxillary and globular processes fail to unite on one or both sides, producing a condition popularly known as " harelip." At the time when this fusion occurs the nasal fossae are widely separated by the broad nasal process (Fig. 53), but during later development this process narrows to form the nasal septum and is gradually elevated above the general surface of the face as shown in Figs. 48-50. By the nar- rowing of the nasal process the globular processes are brought nearer together and form the portions of the upper jaw immediately on each side of the median line, the rest of the jaw being formed by the maxillary processes. In the meantime a furrow has appeared upon the mandibular process, running parallel with its borders (Fig. 49) ; the portion of the process in front of this furrow gives rise to the lower lip and is known as the lip ridge, while the portion behind the furrow becomes the lower jaw proper and is termed the chin ridge. The Development of the Limbs.—As has been already pointed out, the limbs make their appearance in an embryo measuring about 4 mm. in length (Fig. 45) and are at first l)ud-like in form. As they increase in length they at first have their long axes directed parallel to the longitudinal axis of the body and become somewhat flattened at their free ends, remaining cylindrical in their proximal portions. 990 DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIMBS. A furrow or constriction appears at the junction of the flattened and cyhndrical portions (Fig. 47), and later a second constriction divides the cyhndrical portion into a proximal and distal moiety, the three segments of each limb —the arm, forearm, and hand in the upper limb, and the thigh, leg, and foot in the lower—being thus marked out. The digits are first indicated by the development of four radiating shallow grooves upon the hand and foot regions, and a transverse furrow uniting the proximal ends of the digital furrows indicates the junction of the digital and palmar regions of the hand or of the toes and body of the foot. After this stage is reached the development of the upper limb proceeds more rapidly than that of the lower, although the processes are essentially the same in both limbs. The digits begin to project slightly, but are at first to a very considerable extent united together by a web, whose further growth, however, does not keep pace with that of the digits, which thus come to project more and more in later stages. Even in comparatively early stages the thumb, and to a- somewhat slighter extent the great toe, is widely separated from the second digit (Figs. 49 and 50). While these changes have been taking place the entire limbs have altered their position with reference to the axis of the body, being in stages later than that shown in Fig. 47 directed ventrally so that their longitudinal axes are at right angles to that of the body. From the figures of later stages it may be seen that it is the thumb (radial) side of the arm and the great toe (tibial) side of the leg which are directed fonvard; the plantar and palmar surfaces of the feet and hands are turned toward the body and the elbow is directed outward and slightly backward, while the knee looks outward and slightly forward. It seems proper to conclude that the radial side of the arm is homologous with the tibial side of the leg, the palmar surface of the handDEVELOPMENT OF THE LIMBS, 91 with the plantar surface of the foot, and the elbow with the knee. The limbs are, however, still in the quadrupedal condi- tion, and they must later undergo a second alteration in position so that their long axes again become parallel with that of the body. This is accomplished by a rotation of the limbs around axes passing through the shoulders and hip-joints together with a rotation about their longitudi- nal axes through an angle of 90 degrees. This axial rota- tion of the upper limb is, however, in exactly the opposite direction to that of the lower limb of the corresponding side, so that the homologous surfaces of the two limbs have entirely different relations, the radial side of the arm, for instance, being the outer side while the tibial side of the leg is the inner side, and whereas the palmar surface of the hand looks- ventrally, the plantar surface of the foot looks dorsally. In making these statements no account is taken of the secondary position which the hand may assume as the result of its pronation; the positions given are those assumed by the limbs when both the bones of their middle segment are parallel to one another. It may Jje pointed out that the prevalent use of the physio- logical terms flexor and extensor to describe the surfaces of the limbs has a tendency to obscure their true morphol'Sgical relationships. Thus if, as is usual, the dorsal surface of the arm be termed its extensor surface, then the same term should be applied to the entire ventral surface of the leg, and all move- ments of the lower limb ventrally should be spoken of as movements of extension and any movement dorsally as move- ments of flexion. And yet a ventral movement of the thigh is generally spoken of as a flexion of the hip-joint, while a straightening out of the foot upon the leg—that is to say, a movement of it dorsally—is termed its extension. The Age of the Embryo at Different Stages.—The age of an embryo must be dated from the moment of fertiliza-92 AGE OF EMBRYO AT DIFFERENT STAGES. tion and from what has been said in previous pages (pp. 35, 36) it is evident that it must be exceedingly difficult to determine the exact age of any embryo even when the time of the cessation of the menses and the date of the coition which resulted in the pregnancy are known. And, further- more, not only is the actual date of the beginning of devel- opment uncertain, but in the majority of the known human embryos in early stages the time of the cessation of develop- ment is also more or less uncertain, since the embryos are abortions and their expulsion need not necessarily have im- mediately succeeded their death. These various sources of uncertainty are of especial im- portance in the early stages of development, when a day more or less means much. But nevertheless it is conve- nient to have some estimate of the age of such embryos even thoug'h it be recog^iized that any date given is a mere approximation. His has made an estimate of the age of a number of embryos concerning which approximate data were available with results which are stated in the follow- ing table: At 2-22 weeks the embryo measures 2.2- 3 mm. in length. " 2*-3 " " " 3 - 4-5 mm. " 3* " " "5-6 mm. " 4 " " "7-8 mm. ^' 4i " " " 10 -II mm. " 5 " " " 13 mm. It must be borne in mind, however, that embryos of the same age need not in all cases be of the same length, since conchtions of nutrition, etc., will largely determine not only the size of the embryo, but also the amount of its develop- ment. And, furthermore, it seems probable that the esti- mates for age given in the above table may be too small, since there is reason to believe that the earlier stages of development proceed more slowly than do the later ones.93 AGE OF EMBRVO AT DIFFERENT STAGES. Thus, Bischoff found that the embryonic disk in the rabbit showed but httle differentiation up to the seventh or eighth day, while at the tenth day the embryo possessed branchial clefts and mesodermic somites. It would seem from the available data, which are more definite than usual, that a human embryo described by Eternod and measuring only 1.3 mm. in length was very nearly tw^enty-one days old; and if this estimate be correct then the ages assignied by His to the earlier embryos must be very considerably increased. As regards the later periods of dev^elopment, the limits of error for any date become of less importance. His esti- mates that at the end of the second month when the embryo Ijecomes a fetus, its length is about 25 to 28 mm., and for later periods Schroder gives the following- measurements as the averag-e: 3d lunar month 70- 90 mm. 100-170 mm. 180-270 mm. 280-340 mm. 350-380 mm. 425 mm. 467 mm. 490-500 mm. 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th loth From the study of a relatively large number of embryos Mall concludes that the ages of embryos measuring any- where from I to 100 mm. in length may be expressed in days with a fair amount of accuracy by the square root of the length multiplied by 100 (VnengFirin~^nrnO<~ioo), and that in embryos between 100 and 220 mm. the age in days is about the same as the length in millimeters. The data concerning the weight of embryos of different ages are as yet very insufficient, and it is well known that the weights of new-born children may vary greatly, the authenticated extremes being, according to Vierordt,' 717 grams and 6123 grams. It is probable that considerableLITERATURE. 94 variations in weight occur also during- fetal life. So far as embryos of the first two months are concerned, the data are too imperfect for tabulation; for later periods Fehling gives the following as average weights: 3d month, 4th " 5th " 6th " 7th " 8th " 9th " loth " 20 grams. 120 " 285 " 63s " 1220 " 1700 " 2240 " 3250 " LITERATURE. J. Broman : " Beohachtung eines menschhchen Embryos von beinahe 3 mm. Lange mit specieller Bemerknng iiber die bei demselben befind- lichen HirnfaUen," Morpholog. Arhcitcn, v, 1895. J. M. Coste: " Histoire generale et particuhere du developpement des corps organises," Paris, 1847-1859. A. EcKER: " Beit rage zur Kenntniss der iiusserer Formen jiingster menschlichen Embryonen," Archiv fiir Anal, und Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1880. A. C. F. EterNod : "Communication sur nn ceuf humain avec embryon excessivement jeune," Archives Ital. de Biologic, xxri^ 1895. A. C. F. Eternod : " II y a im canal notochordal dans 1' embryon hu- main," Anat. Anzcigcr, xvi, 1899. C. GiACOMiNi: " Un oeuf humain de 11 jours," Archives Ital. de Biol- ogic, XXIX, 1898. V. Hensen : " Beitrag zur Morphologic der Korperform und des Gehirns des menschlichen Embryos," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1877. W. His: "Anatomic menschlicher Embrj'onen,"" Leipzig, 1880. J. Janosik : " Zwei junge menschliche Embryonen," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., XXX, 1887. F. Keibel: " Ein sehr junges menschliches Ei," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1890. F. Keibel : " Ueber einen menschlichen Embryo von 6.8 mm. grosster Liinge," Vcrhandl. Anatoni. Gcscllsch., xiii, 1899. J. Kollmann: "Die Korperform menschlicher normaler und patho- logischer Embryonen," Archiv fiir Anat. uiid Physiol, Anat Abth., Supplement, 1889.95 LITERATURE. F. P. Mall: "A Human Embryo Twenty-six Days Old," Journ. of Morphology, v, 1891. F. P. Mall: "A Human Embryo of the Second Week," Anat. Anzeiger, VIII, 1893. F. P. Mall : " Early Human Embryos and the Mode of their Preserva- tion," Bulletin of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, iv, 1894. C. S. Minot: "Human Embryology," Nevi^ York, 1892. J. Muller : " Zergliederungen menschlicher Embryonen aus friiherer Zeit," Archiv fi'ir Anat. und Physiol, 1830. H. Peters : " Ueber die Einbettung des menschlichen Eies und das friiheste bisher bekannte menschliche Placentarstadium," Leipzig und Wien, 1899. C. Phisalix: "Etude d'un Embryon humain de 11 millimetres," Ar- chives de zoolog. experimentale et generale, Ser. 2, vi, 1888. H. Piper : " Ein menschlicher Embryo von 6.8 mm. Nackenlinie," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1898. F. Graf von Spee : " Beobachtungen an einer menschlichen Keimscheibe niit offener Medullarrinne und Canalis neurentericus," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1889. F. Graf von Spee: "Ueber friihe Entwickelungsstufen des mensch- lichen Eies," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1896. Allen Thompson : " Contributions to the History of the Structure of the Human Ovum and Embryo before the Third Week after Con- ception, with a Description of Some Early Ova," Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journal, 1839. (See also Froriep's Neue Noticen, \ni, 1840.)96 CHAPTER IV. THE MEDULLARY GROOVE, NOTOCHORD, AND MESODERMIC SOMITES. In the youngest human embryos known, such as the Peters' embryo and the youngest embryo described by Graf Spee, there is no differentiation of the embryonic disk other than that associated with the formation of the primi- tive streak. In an embi-yo described by Eternod and meas- uring 1.3 mm. in length (Fig. 54) a median longitudinal groove (;/;) has made its appearance, marking out the axis of the disk and forming what is known as the medullary groove; and in the older embryo described by Spee (Fig. 38) a longitudinal ridge has appeared on either side of the groove, forming the medullary folds. The two folds are continuous anteriorly, but behind they are at first separate, the anterior portion of the primitive streak lying between them. In forms, such as the Reptilia, which possess a distinct blastopore, this opening lies in the interval between the two, and consequently is in the floor of the medullai*y groove, and in the mammalia, even though no well-defined blastopore is formed, yet at the time of the formation of the medullary fold an opening breaks through at the anterior end of the primitive streak and places the cavity lying below the endoderm in communication with the space bounded by the medullary folds. The canal so formed is termed the ncurcntcric canal (Fig. 55, nc) and is so called because it unites what will later become the cen-97 THE MEDULLARY GROOVE. Fig. 54.—Embryo 1.34 mm. Long. al, Allantois; am, amnion; bs, belly-stalk; h, heart; nt, medullarv groove; nc, neurenteric canal; pc, caudal protuberance; ps, primi- tive streak; ys, yolk-stalk.— {Eternod.) 1098 THE MEDULLARY GROOVE. tml canal of the nervous system with the intestine (en- teron). The significance of this canal has already been discussed (p. 60) ; it is of very brief persistence, closing at an early stage of development so as to leave no trace of its existence. As development proceeds the medullary folds increase 55—Diagram of a Longitudinal Section through an Embryo OF 1.54 MM. al, Allantois; am, amnion; B, belly-stalk; c/i, chorion; h, heart; »c, neurenteric canal; V, chorionic villi; Y, yolk-sac—(z/on Spee.) in height and at the same time incline toward one another (Fig. 40) so that their edges finally come into contact and later fuse, the two ectodermal layers forming the one unit- ing with the corresponding layers of the other (Fig. 56).99 THE MEDULLARY GROOVE. By this process the medullary groove becomes converted into a medullary canal which later becomes the central canal of the spinal cord and the ventricles of the brain, thg ectodermal walls of the canal thickening to give rise to the central nervous system. The closure of the groove does not, however, take place simultaneously along its entire length, but begins in what corresponds to the neck region Fig. 56.—Diagrams showing the Manner of the Closure of the Medullary Groove. of the adult (Fig. 41) and thence proceeds both anteriorly and posteriorly, the extension of the fusion taking place rather slowly, however, especially anteriorly, so that an anterior opening into the otherwise closed canal can be distinguished for a considerable period (Fig. 42). While these changes have been taking place in the ecto- derm of the median line of the embryonic disk, modifica- tions of the subjacent endoderm have also occurred. This endoderm, it- will be remembered, was formed by the headlOO THE NOTOCHORD. process of the primitive streak, and was a plate of cells con- tinuous at the sides with the primary endoderm and extend- ing forward as far as what will eventually be the anterior part of the pharynx. Along the line of its junction with the primary endoderm it gives rise to the plates of gastral mesoderm (Fig. 27), while the remainder of it produces Fig. 57.—Transverse Sections THROUGH Mole Kmbryos, showing THE Formation of the Notochord. ec, Ectoderm; en, endoderm; m, mesoderm; nc, notochord.—(Heape.) chorda dorsalis and on this account is sometimes termed the chorda endoderm. After the separation of the plates of gastral mesoderm the chorda endoderm, which is at first a flat band, becomes some- what curved (Fig. 57, A), so that it is concave on its under surface, and, the curvature increasing, the edges of the plate come into contact and finally fuse together (Fig, 57, B), the edges of the primary endoderm at the same time uniting beneath the chordal tube so formed, so this layer becomes a continuous sheet, as it was at its first appearance. The lumen which is at first present in the chordal tube is soon obliterated by the enlargement of the cells which bound it,THE NOTOCHORD. lOI and these cells later undergo a peculiar transformation whereby the chordal tube is converted into a solid elastic rod surrounded by a cuticular sheath secreted by the cells. The notochord lies at first immediately beneath the median line of the medullary groove, between the ectoderm and the endoderm, and has on either side of it the mesodermal plates. It is a temporary structure of which only rudiments persist in the adult condition in man, but it is a structure characteristic of all vertebrate embryos and persists to a more or less perfect extent in many of the fishes, being indeed the only axial skeleton possessed by Amphioxus. Li^ the higher vertebrates it is almost completely replaced by the vertebral column, which develops around it in a manner to be described later. Turning now to the middle germinal layer, it will be found that in it also important changes take place during these early stages of development. The probable mode of devel- opment of the extmrembryonic mesoderm and body-cavity has already been described (p. 69) and attention may now be directed toward what occurs in the embryonic mesoderm. In both the Peters embryo and the embryo v.H described by von Spee this portion of the mesoderm is represented by a_2late_.of^ls lying, between the ectoderm and endoderni^ and becoming continuous at the edges of the embryonic area with both the laver whirh ■^iirr^^^^^j'. tiie yolk-sac and, through the mesoderm of the belly-stalk, with the chorionic mesoderm (Fig. 35). It seems probable, since there is in these embryos no indication as yet of the formation of the chorda endoderm, that this plate of mesoderm corresponds to the prostomial mesoderm of lower forms. In older em- bryos, such as the embryo Gle of Graf Spee and the younger embryo described by Eternod (Fig. 54), the mesoderip'^no longer forms a continuous sheet extending completely across the embryonic disk, but is divided into two lateral plates, inI02 THE MESODERMIC SOMITES. the interval between which the ectoderm of the floor of the medullary groove and the chorda endoderm are in close contact (Fig. 34). These lateral plates represent the gas- tral mesoderm, whose origin has already been described (p. 62), and which apparently supplants the original pros- tomial mesoderm, whose fate in the human embryo is at present unknown. The changes which now occur have not as yet been observed in the human embryo, though they probably resemble those described in other mammalian em- bryos, and the phenomena which occur in the sheep may serve to illustrate their probable nature. The lateral plates increase in size by the multiplication Fig. 58.—Transverse Section through the Second Mesodermic Somite of a Sheep Embryo 3 mm. Long. am. Amnion; en, endoderm; I, intermediate cell-mass; mg, medullary groove; ms, mesodermic somite; so, somatic and sp, splanchnic layers of the ventral mesoderm.—(Bonnet.) of the cells which compose them and, in sections, have a somewhat triangular form, the portions nearest the median line of the embryo being much thicker than the more lateral parts. In the region which will later become the neck of the embryo a longitudinal groove appears upon the dorsal surfjice of each plate, marking off the more median thicker portion from the lateral parts, and the median portions then become divided transversely into a number of more or less103 THE MESODERMIC SOMITES. cubical masses which are termed the protovertebrce or, better, mesodermic somites (Fig. 58, wz^), structures whose appear- ance in surface views has already been described (Fig. 41 et seq.). The cells of the somites and of the lateral parts, which may be termed the ventral mesoderm, are at first stellate in form, but later become more spindle-shaped, and those near the center of each somite and those of the ventral mesoderm arrange themselves in regular layers so as to en- close cavities which appear in these regions (Fig. 58). The Fig. 59.—Transverse Section of an Embryo of 2.5 mm. (See Fig. 42) SHOWING on either SIDE OF THE MEDULLARY CaNAL A MeSO- dermic Somite, the Intermediate Cell-mass, and the Ventral Mesoderm.— {von Lenhossek.) cavities of the somites first formed become continuous with the cavities contained between the layers of the adjacent ventral mesoderm, but this continuity eventually disappears and is not developed in the later formed somites. Each original lateral plate of gastral mesoderm thus becomes divided longitudinally into three areas, a more median areaTHE MESODERMIC SOMITES. I04 compose^joLmesodermic somites, lateral to this a narrow underlying the original longitudinal groove which sep- arated the somite area from the ventral mesoderm and which from its position is termed the intermediate cell mass (Fig. 58, /), a_nd, finally, the ventral mesoderm. Thisjast poftionjsjiow^div^ two layers, the dorsal of which is termed the somatic mesoderm, while the ventral one is known as the splanchnic mesoderm (Fig. 58, so and sp; and Fig- 59) J the cavity which separates these two layers being the embryonic body-cavity o_r pi euro peritoneal cavity, whicli will eventually give rise to the pleural, pericardiaLand-peri- toneal cavities of the adult as well as the cavity of each tunica vaginalis testis. Beginning in the neck region, the formation of the meso- dermic somites proceeds anteriorly and posteriorly until finally there are present in the human embryo thirty-eight pairs in the neck and trunk regions of the body, and, in addition, a certain number are developed in what is later the occipital region of the head. Exactly how many of these occipital somites are developed is not known, but in the cow four have been observed, and there are reasons for believing that the same number occurs in the human embryo. In the lower vertebrates a number of cavities arranged in pairs occur in the more anterior portions of the head and have been homologized with mesodermic somites. Whether this homology be perfectly correct or not, these head-cavities, as they are termed, indicate the existence of a division of the head mesoderm into somites, and although practically nothing is known as to their existence in the human embryo, yet, from the relations in which they stand to the cranial nerves and musculature in the lower forms, there is reason to suppose that they are not entirely unrepresented. The mesodermic somites in the earliest human embryos in which they have been observed contain a completely closed cavity, and this is true of the majority of the somitesTHE MESODERMIC SOMITES. 105 in such a form as the sheep. In the four first-formed som- ites in this species, however, as has already been stated, the somite cavity is at first continuous with the pleuroperitoneal cavity and only later becomes separated from it, and in lower vertebrates this continuity of the somite cavities with Fig. 60.—Transverse Section of an Embryo of 4.25 mm. at the Leveu of the Arm Rudiment. A, Axial mesoderm of arm; Am, amnion; il, inner lamella of myo- tome ; M, myotome; mc, splanchnic mesoderm; ol, outer lamella of myotome; Pn, place of origin of pronephros; 5", sclerotome; defect in wall of lliyotDlne due to separation of the sclerotome; st, stomach; Vu, umbilical \e'm.^(Kollntann.) the general body-cavity is the rule. The somite cavities are consequently to be regarded as portions of the general pleuroperitoneal cavity which have secondarily been sepa-THE MESODERMIC SOMITES. io6 rated off. They are, however, of but short duration and early become filled up by spindle-shaped cells derived from the walls of the somites, which themselves undergo a differ- entiation into distinct portions. The cells of that portion of the wall of each somite which is opposite the notochord become spindle-shaped and grow inward toward the median line to surround the notochord and central nervous system, and give rise eventually to the lateral half of the body of a vertebra and the corresponding portion of a vertebral arch. This portion of the somite is termed a sclerotome (Fig. 60, S), and the remainder forms_a muscle plate or jm^atnme (M) which is destined to give rise to a portion of the volun- tary musculature of the body. The outer wall of the somite has been generally believed to take part in the formation of the cutis layer of the integument and hence has been termed the cutis plate or dermatome, but it seems probable that it becomes entirely transformed into muscular tissue. Thejntermediate cell-mass in the human embryo, as in lower forms, partakes of the transverse divisions which separate the individual mesodermic somites. From onejpor- tion of the tissue in most_of_the somites (Fig^^o^Fw) the provisiormn^idbeys_QrJWi3lffiaiL^^ develop, this portion of each nias.sbejnp;J;gnBg^i-^ nephrotow^ while the remain- ing portion gives rise to a ma^s of cells showing no tendency to arrange themselves in definite lavers and constituting that form^fjiiesoderm which has been termed niesenchyme [(see p. 65). These mesenchymatous masses become con- 1 verted into connective tissues and blood-vessels. The ventral mesoderm in the neck and trunk regions never become divided transversely into segments correspond- ing to the mesodermic somites, differing in this respect from the other portions of the gastral mesoderm. In the head, however, that portion of the middle layer which corresponds to the ventral mesoderm of the trunk does undergo a divisionTHE MESODERMIC SOMITES. into segments in connection with the development of the hranchial arches and clefts. A consideration of these seg- ments, which are known as the hranchiomcres, may conve- niently be postponed until the chapters dealing with the development of the cranial muscles and nerves, and in what follows here attention will be confined to what occurs in the ventral mesoderm of the neck and trunk. Its splanchnic layer applies itself clo.s£ly_J:Q-J±ie^endQ- dermal digestive tract (Fig. 6i, Sp), wliich is constricted off from the dorsal portion of the yolk-sac, and becomes converted into mesenchyme out of which the muscular coats of the digestive tract develop. The cells which line the pleuroperitoneal cavity, however, retain their arrangement in a layer and form^pait^fjyie_s^^ toneal and_othei^serous cavities, the remainder of the lining being formed by the corresponding cells of the somatic layer; and in the abdominal region the superficial cells, sit- uatedjiear the line_where the splanchnic layer passes into the somatic, aiid in close proximity to the nephrotome of tlie interhiedfate cell-mass, become columnar in shape and are converted into reproductive cells. The somatic layer, if traced peripherally, becomes con- tinuous at the sides with the layer of mesoderm which lines the outer surface of the amnion (Fig. 60) and posteriqrly with the mesoderm of the belly-stalk. That portion of it which lies within the body of the embryo, in addition to giving rise to the serous lining of the parietal layer of the pleuroperitoneum, becomes converted into mesenchyme, which for a considerable length of time is clearly differen- tiated into two zones, a more compact dorsal one which may be termed the somatic layer proper, and a thinner, more ventral vascular zone which is termed the rnembrana reuniens (Fig. 61). In the earlier stages the somatic layer proper does not extend ventrally beyond the line whichTHE MESODERMIC SOMITES. I08 passes through the hmb buds and it grows out into these buds to form an axial core for them (Fig. 6i, Lr), in which later the skeleton of the limb forms. The remainder of the mesoderm lining- the sides and ventral portions of the body- wall is at first formed from the membrana reuniens, but as development proceeds the somatic layer gradually extends more ventrally and displaces, or, more properly speaking, assimilates into itself, the membrana reuniens until finally the latter has completely disappeared. It is to be noted that no part of the voluntary muscula- ture of the lateral and ventral walls of the neck and trunk is derived from the somatic layer; it is formed entirely from the myotomes which gradually extend ventrally and finally come into contact with their fellows of the opposite side in the mid-ventral line. Whether the voluntary mus- culature of the limbs is also derived from the myotomes is at present doubtful. It has been very generally believed that the myotomes in their growth ventrally sent prolonga- tions into the limb buds which invested the axial core of mesenchyme and eventually gave rise to the voluntary mus- cles, and such may really be the case, the relations of the various parts developed from the gastral mesoderm being as represented in the diagrams composing Fig. 6i. The act,ual existence of the prolongations of the myotomes and their conversion into the limb musculature has, however, not yet been observed and it is quite possible that the limb muscu- lature may be derived from the axial core of somatic meso- derm from which the limb skeleton develops. The appearance of the mesodermic somites is an impor- tant phenomenon in the development of the embryo, since it influences fundamentally the future structure of the or- ganism. If each pair of mesodermic somites be regarded as an element and termed a metamere or_segment, then__it iTiav be said that the body is composed of a series of_meta-109 METAMERISM. meres, each more or less closely resembling its fellows, and succeeding one another at regular intervals. Each somite differentiates, as has been stated, into a sclerotome and a myotome, and, accordingly, there will primarily be as many vertebrae and muscle segments as there are mesodermic somites, or, in other words, 'the^xi^Lskdetm^^ untary muscles of theji'unk are primajjlyjnetamerjc^* Nor Fig. 61.—Diagrams Illustrating the History of the Gastral Mesoderm. C, Outer layer of myotome; Dm, dorsal portion of myotome; Gr, genital ridge; /, intestine; Lr, limb bud; Mr, membrana reuniens;- N, nervous system; Nc, notochord; Sc, sclerotome; So and Sp, somatic and splanchnic mesoderm; Vm, ventral portion of myo- tome; Wd, Wolffian duct.— {Modified from Kollmann.) is this all. Since each metamere is a distinct unit, it must possess its own supply of nutrition, and hence the primary arrangement of the blood-vessels is also metameric, a branch passing off on either side from the main longitudinal arteries and veins to each metamere. And, further, each pair of muscle segments receives its own nerves, so that the arrange- ment of the nerves, again, is distinctly metameric.METAMERISM. I lO This metamerism is most distinct in the neck and trunk regions, and at first only in the dorsal portions of these regions, the ventral portions showing metamerism only after the extension into them of the myotomes. But there is clear evidence that the arrangement extends also into the head, and that this, like the rest of the body, is to be regarded as composed of metameres. It has been seen that in the notochordal region of the head of lower vertebrates mesodermic somites are present, while anteriorly in the pr^e- chordal region there are head-cavities which resemble closely the mesodermic somites, and may, perhaps, be directly com- parable to the somites of the trunk. There is reason, there- fore, for believing that the fundamental arrangement of all parts of the body is metameric, but though this arrangement is clearly defined in early embryos, it loses distinctness in later periods of development. But even in the adult the primary metamerism is clearly indicated in the arrangement of the nerves and of parts of the axial skeleton, and careful study frequently reveals indications of it in highly modified muscles and blood-vessels. In the head the development of the branchial arches and clefts produces a series of parts presenting many of the peculiarities of metameres, and, indeed, it has been a very | general custom to regard them as expressions of the general metamerism which prevails throughout the body. It is to be noted, however, that they are produced by the segmenta- tion of the ventral mesoderm, a structure which in the neck and trunk regions does not share in the general metamerism, and, furthermore, recent observations on the cranial nerves seem to indicate that these branchiomeres cannot be regarded as portions of the head metameres or even as structures comparable to these. They represent, more probably, a second metamerism superposed upon thejnore general one, or, indeed, possibly more primitive than it, but whose rela- :I I I LITERATURE. tions can only be properly understood in connection with a stndy of the cranial nerves (see p. 445)- LITERATURE. In addition to many of the papers cited in the list at the close of Chapter II, the following may be mentioned: C. R. Bardeen: "The Development of the Musculature of the Body Wall in the Pig, etc.," Johns Hopkins Hasp. Rep., ix, 1900. W. Heape: "The Development of the Mole (Talpa Europjea)," Quar- terly Joiirn. Micro sc. Science, xxvii, 1887. F. Keibel : " Zur Entw^ickelungsgeschichte der Chorda bei Saugern (Meerschweinchen und Kaninchen)," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Abtk, 1889. S. Kaestner : " Ueber die Bildung von animalen Muskelfasern aus dem Urwirbel," Arch, fur Anat. und Phys., Anat. Abth., SuppL, .1890. J. Kollmann: "Die Rumpfsegmente menschlioher Embryonen von 13 bis 35 Urwirbeln," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1891. J. W. van Wijhe:. " Ueber die Mesodermsegmente des Rumpfes und die Entwicklung des Excretionsystems bei. Selachiern," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xxxiii, 1889. K. W. Zimmermann: "Ueber Kopfhohlenrudimente beim Menschen," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., liii, 1898.I I 2 CHAPTER V. THE YOLK-STALK, BELLY-STALK, AND FETAL MEMBRANES. The conditions to which the embryos and larvae of the majority of animals must adapt themselves are so different from those under which the adult organisms exist that in the early stages of development special organs are very fre- quently developed which are of use only during the em- bryonic or larval period and are discarded when more advanced stages of development have been reached. This remark applies with especial force to the human embryo which leads for a period of nine months what may be termed a parasitic existence, drawing its nutrition from and yielding up its waste products to the blood of the parent. In order that this may be accomplished certain special organs are developed by the embryo, by means of which it forms an intimate connection with the walls of the uterus, which, on its part, becomes greatly modified, the combination of em- bryonic and maternal structures producing what are termed the deciducB, owing to their being discarded at birth when the parasitic mode of life is given up. Furthermore, it has already been seen that many pecu- liar modifications of development in the human embryo result from the inheritance of structures from more or less remote ancestors, and among the embryonic adnexes are found structures which represent in a more or less modi- fied condition organs of considerable functional importance in lower forms. Such structures are the yolk-stalk and reside, the amnion, and the allantois, and for their proper11 YOLK-STALK AND FETAL MEMBRANES. US understanding it will be well to consider briefly their devel- opment in some lower form, such as the chick. At the time when the embryo of the chick begins to be constricted off from the surface of the large yolk-mass, a fold, consisting of ectoderm and somatic mesoderm, arises just outside the embryonic area, which it completely sur- rounds. As development proceeds the fold becomes higher and its edges gradually draw nearer together over the dorsal Fig. 62.—Diagrams Illustrating the Formation of the Amnion AND AlLANTOIS IN THE ChICK. Af, Amnion folds; Al, allantois; Am, amniotic cavity; Ds, yolk-sac. — {Gegenbaur.) surface of the embryo (Fig. 62, A), and finally meet and fuse (Fig. 62, B), so that the embryo becomes enclosed within a sac, which is termed the amnion and is formed by the fusion of the layers which constituted the inner wall of the fold. The layers of the outer waU of the fold after fusion form part qfthe general ectoderm and somatic meso- derm which make up the outer wall of the ovum and together114 YOLK-STALK AND FETAL MEMBRANES. I are known as the serosa, corresponding^ to the chorion of ^ Ithejmmmalian embryo. The space which occurs between the amnion and the serosa is^a^jjortion of the . extra- embryonic coelom and is continuous with the embryonic gleuroperitoneaLcayity:^ In the ovum of the chick, as in that of the reptile, the protoplasmic material is limited to one pole and rests upon the large yolk-mass. As development proceeds the germ layers gradually extend around the yolk-mass (compare Fig. 62, A-C) and eventually completely enclose it, the yolk- mass coming to lie within the endodermal layer, which, together with the splanchnic mesoderm which lines it, forms what is termed the yolk-sac. As the embryo separates from the yolk-mass the yolk-sac is constricted in its proximal por- tion and so differentiated into a yolk-stalk and a yolk-sac, the contents of the latter being gradually absorbed by the embryo during its growth, its walls and those of the stalk being converted into a portion of the embryonic digestive tract. In the meantime, however, from the posterior portion of the digestive tract, behind the point of attachment of the yolk-sac, a diverticulum has begun to form (Fig. 62, A). This increases in size, projecting into the extra-embryonic portion of the pleuroperitoneal cavity and pushing before it the splanchnic mesoderm which lines the endoderm (Fig. 62, B and C). This is the allantois, which, reaching a very considerable size in the chick and applying itself closely to the inside of the serosa, serves as a respiratory and excretory organ for the embryo, for which purpose its walls are richly supplied with blood-vessels, the allantoic arteries and veins. I Toward the end of the incubation period both the am- » 1 nion and allantois begin to undergo retrogressive changes, and just before the hatching of the young chick they become completely dried up and closely adherent to the egg-shell,THE AMNION. at the same time separating from their point of attachment to the body of the young chick, so that when the chick leaves the egg-shell it bursts through the dried-up membranes and leaves them behind as useless structures. The Amnion.—Turning now to the human embryo, it will be found that the same organs are present, though some- what modified either in the mode or the extent of then- development. A well-developed amnion occurs, arising, how- ever, in a very different manner from what it does in the chick; a large yolk-sac occurs even though it contains no yolk; and an allantois which has no respiratory or excretory functions is present, though in a somewhat degenerated con- dition. It has been seen from the description of the earliest stages of development that the processes which occur in the lower forms are greatly abbreviated in the human embryo. The enveloping layer, instead of gradually extending from oiie pole to enclose the eiitire ovum, develops in situ durnig the stages immedTatefy'^succeeding segmentation, and _tlTe_ e2ctra;:embryonic mesoderm, instead of growing out from the embryo to enclose the yolk-sac, splits off directl}^Jrom^ ^ tlie enveloping layer. The earliest stages in the develop- ment of the amnion are not yet known for the human em- bryo, but from the condition in which it is found in the Peters embryo (Fig. 35) and in the embryo v.H. of von Spee (Fig. 37) it is probable that it arises, not by the fusion of the edges of a fold, as in the chick, but by a vacuolization of a portion of the inner cell-mass, as has been described as occurring in the bat (p. 57). It is, then, a closed cavity from the very beginning, the floor of the cavity being formed by the embryonic disk, its posterior wall by the anterior sur- face of the belly-stalk, while its roof and sides are._tliin_and_.. composed of a single layer of flattened ectodermal cells Hned on the outside by a layer of mesoderm contmuous with the somatic mesoderm of the embryo and the mesoderm of the belly-stalk (Fig,,63, A).ii6 THE AMNION. When the bending downward of the peripheral portions of the embryonic disk to close in the ventral surface of the embryo occurs, the line of attachment of the amnion to the disk is also carried ventrally (Fig. 63, B), so that when the constriction off of the embryo is practically completed, Fig. 63.—Diagrams Illustrating the Formation of the Umbilical Cord. The heavy black Hne represents the embryonic ectoderm; the dotted Hne represents the Hne of reflexion of the body ectoderm into that of the amnion. Ac, Amniotic cavity; Al, allantois; Be, extra- embryonic coelom; Bs, belly-stalk; Ch, chorion; P, placenta; Uc, umbilical cord; V, chorionic villi; Ys, yolk-sac. the amnion is attached anteriorly to the margin of the umbilicus and posteriorly to the extremity of the band of ectoderm lining what may now be considered the posterior surface of the belly-stalk, while at the sides it is attachedTHE AMNION. 117 along- an oblique line joining these two points (Fig. 63, B and C, in which the attachment of the amnion is indicated by the broken line). Leaving aside for the present the changes which occur in the attachment of the amnion to the embryo (see p. 123), it may be said that during the later growth of the embryo the amniotic cavity increases in size until finally its wall comes into contact with the chorion, the extra- ernbryonic body-cavity being thus practically obliterated (Fig. 63, D), thoug-h no actual fusion of amnion and chorion | ^ occurs. Suspended by the umbilical cord, which has by this time developed, the embryo floats freely in the amniotic cavity, which is filled by a fluid, the liquor amnii, whose origin is involved in doubt, some authors maintaining that it infiltrates into the cavity from the maternal tissues, while others hold that a certain amount of it at least is derived from the embryo. It is a fluid with a specific gravity of about 1.003 ^^'^^ contains about i per cent, of solids, prin- cipally albumin, grape-sugar, and urea, the last constituent probably coming from the embryo. When present in great- est quantity,—that is to say, at about the beginning of the ' last month of pregnancy,—it varies in amount between one- half and three-fourths of a liter, but during the last month it diminishes to about half that quantity. To protect the epidermis of the fetus from maceration during its prolonged immersion in the liquor amnii, the sebaceous glands of the skin at about the sixth month of development pour out upon the surface of the body a white fatty secretion known as the vernix caseosa. During parturition the amnion, as a rule, ruptures as the result of the contraction of the uterine walls and the liquor amnii escape as the "waters," a phenomenon which nor- mally precedes the delivery of the child. As a rule, the rup- ture is sufficiently extensive to allow the passage of the child.THE YOLK-SAC. Ii8 the amnion remaining behind in the uterus, to be subse- quently expelled along with the deciduae. Occasionally it happens, however, that the amnion is suffi- ciently strong to withstand the pressure exerted upon it by the uterine contractions and the child is born still enveloped in the amnion, which, in such cases, is popularly known as the " caul," the possession of which, according to an old super- stition, marks the child as a favorite of fortune. As stated above, the liquor amnii varies considerably in amount in different cases, and occasionally it may be present in excessive quantities, producing a condition known as hydramnios. On the other hand, the amount may fall con- siderably below the normal, in which case the amnion may form abnormal unions with the embryo, sometimes producing malformations. Occasionally also bands of a fibrous char- acter traverse the amniotic cavity and, tightening upon the embryo during its growth, may produce various malformations, such as scars, splitting of the eyelids or lips, or even amputa- tion of a limb. The Yolk-sac.—The development of the yolk-sac in the human embryo, its differentiation into yolk-stalk and yolk- vesicle, and its enclosure within the umbilical cord have already been described. When these changes have been 'completed, the vesicle is a small pyriform structure lying between the amnion and the chorionic mesoderm, some dis- tance away from the extremity of the umbilical cord (Fig. 63, D), and the stalk is a long slender column of cells ex- tending from the vesicle through the umbilical cord to unite with the intestinal tract of the embryo. The vesicle persists until birth and may be found among the decidual tissues as a small sac measuring from 3 to 10 mm. in its longest diam- eter. The stalk, however, early undergoes degeneration, the lumen which it at first contains becoming obliterated and its endoderm also disappearing as early as the end of the second month of development. The portion of the stalk which extends from the umbilicus to the intestine usually shares in the degeneration and disappears, but in about 3119 THE ALLANTOIS AND BELLY-STALK. per cent, of cases it persists, forming a more or less exten- sive diverticulum of the lower part of the small intestine, sometimes only half an inch or so in length and sometimes much larger. It may or may not retain connection with the abdominal wall at the umbilicus, and is known as MeckeVs diverticiilum. This embryonic rudiment is of no little importance, since, when present, it is apt to undergo invagination into the lumen of the small intestine and so occlude it. How frequendy this happens relatively to the occurrence of the diverticulum may be judged from the fact that out of one hundred cases of occlu- sion of the small intestine six were due to an invagination of the diverticulum. In the reptiles and birds the yolk-sac is abundantly sup- plied with blood-vessels by means of which the absorption of the yolk is carried on, and even although the functional importance of the yolk-sac as an organ of nutrition is almost nil in the human embryo, yet it still retains a well-developed blood-supply, the walls of the vesicle, especially, possessing a rich network of vessels. The future history of these ves- sels, which are known as the omphalo-mesenteric vessels, will be described later on. The Allantois and Belly-stalk.—It has been seen that in reptilian and avian embryos the allantois reaches a high degree of development and functions as a respiratory and excretory organ by coming into contact with what is com- parable to the chorion of the mammalian embryo. In man it subserves similar functions, but is very much modified both in its mode of development and in its relations to other parts, so that its resemblance to the avian organ is some- what obscured. The differences depend partly upon the remarkable abbreviation manifested in the early develop- ment of the human embryo and partly upon the fact that the allantois serves to place the embryo in relation with the maternal blood, instead of with the external atmosphere,120 THE ALLANTOIS AND BELLY-STALK. as is the case in the egg-laying forms. Thus, the endo- dermal portion of the allantois, instead of arising from the intestine and pushing before it a layer of splanchnic meso- derm to form a large sac lying freely in the extra-embryonic portion of the body-cavity, appears in the human embryo before the intestine has differentiated from the yolk-sac and pushes its way into the solid mass of mesoderm which forms I the belly-stalk (Fig. 63, A). To understand the signifi- cance of this process it is necessary to recall the abbrevia- tion in the human embryo of the development of the extra- embryonic mesoderm and body-cavity. Instead of grow- ing out from the embryonic area, as it does in the lower forms, this mesoderm develops in situ by splitting off from the layer _of enveloping cells and, furthermore, the extra- embryonic body-cavity arises by a splitting of the mesoderm so formed before there is any trace of a splitting of the embryonic iTiesodcrni (Figs. 36 and 35). The belly-stalk, whose development from a portion of the inner cell- mass has already been traced (p. 70), is to be regarded as a portion of the body of the em- bryo, since the ectoderm which covers one surface of it resem- bles exactly that of the embry- onic disk and shows an exten- sion backward of the medullary groove upon its surface (Fig. 64). The mesoderm, therefore, of the belly-stalk is to be regarded as a portion of the embryonic mesodernj which hasjiot yet undergone a splitting into somatic and splanchnic layers, and,jndeed, it never does undergo sucli a splittingr soJha^_the^^ whichIhe'endodermal allantoic diverticulum can grow. "^11 Fig. 64.—Transverse Sec- tion THROUGH THE BeLLY- STALK OF AN EmBRYO OF 2.15 MM. Aa, Umbilical (allantoic) artery; All, allantois; am, amnion; Va, umbilical (allantoic) vein.—(His.)121 THE ALLANTOIS AND BELLY-STALK. But this does not account for all the peculiarities of the human allantois. In the birds, and indeed in the lower oviparous mammals, the endodermal portion of the allan- tois is equally developed with the mesodermal portion, the allantois being an extensive sac whose cavity is filled with fluid, and this is also true of such mammals as the marsu- pials, the rabbit, and the ruminants. In man, however, the endodermal diverticulum never becomes a sac-like structure, but is a slender tube extending from the intestine to the chorion and Iving in the substance of the mesoderm of the belly-stalk (Fig. 63, D), th^ greater portion of which is to be regarded as homologous with the relatively thin layjer of splanchnic mesoderm coyerin^ the endodermal diverticu- .lum of the chick. _ An explanation of this disparity in the development of the mesodermal and endodermal portions of the human allantois is perhaps to be found in the altered conditions under which the respiration and secretion take place. In all forms, the lower as well as the higher, it is the mesoderm which is the more important constituent of the allantois, since in it the blood-vessels, upon whose pres- ence the physiological functions depend, arise and are em- bedded. In the birds and oviparous mammals there are no means by which excreted material can be passed to the exte- rior of the ovum, and it is, therefore, stored up within the cavity of the allantois, the allantoic fluid containing consid - erable quantities of nitrogen, indicating the presence of urea. In the higher mammals the intimate relations which develop between the chorion and the uterine walls allow of the passage of excreted fluids into the maternal blood; and the more intimate these relations, the less necessity there is for an allantoic cavity in which excreted fluid may be stored up. The difference in the development of the cavity in the ruminants, for example, and man depends probably upon the greater intimacy of the union between ovum and 12THE ALLANTOIS AND BELLY-STALK. I 22 Uterus in the latter, the arrangement for the passage of the excreted material into the maternal blood being so per- fect that there is practically no need for the development of an allantoic cavity. The portion of the endodermal diverticulum which is enclosed within the umbilical cord persists until birth in a more or less rudimentary condition, but the intra-embryonic portions of the allantois reach a greater development, the more^proximal portions acc{uiring a cavity of considerable extejit^and fomuiig the urop-enitnl sinn^i and the urinary i bladcler, while the portion intervening between the apex of ' the bladder and the umbilicus becomes converted into a I solid cord of fibrous tissue termed the iirachus. Occasionally a lumen persists in the urachal portion of the allantois and may open to the exterior at the umbilicus, in which case urine from the bladder may escape at the umbilicus. Since the allantois in the human embryo, as well as in the lower forms, is responsible for respiration and excre- tion, its blood-vessels are well developed. They are repre- sented in the belly-stalk by two veins and two arteries (Fig. 64), known in human embryology as the umbilical veins and arteries, which extend from the body of the embryo out to the chorion, there branching repeatedly to enter the numerous chorionic villi by which the embryonic tissues are placed in relation with the maternal. The Umbilical Cord.—During the process of closing in of the ventral surface of the embryo, a stage is reached in which the embryonic and extra-embryonic portions of the body-cavity are completely separated except for a small area, the umbilicus, through which the yolk-stalk passes out (Fig. 63, B). At the edges of this area in front and at the sides the embryonic ectoderm and somatic mesoderm become continuous with the corresponding layers of the amnion, but posteriorly the line of attachment of the am-THE UMBILICAL CORD. 123 nion passes up upon the sides of the belly-stalk (Fig. 63, B), so that the whole of the ventral surface of the stalk is entirely uncovered by ectoderm, this layer being limited to its dorsal surface (Fig. 64). In subsequent stages the embryonic ectoderm and somatic mesoderm at the edges of the umbilicus grow out ventrally, carrying with them the line of attachment of the amnion and forming a tube which encloses the proximal part of the yolk-stalk. The ectoderm of the belly-stalk at the same time extending more laterally, the condition represented in Fig. 63, C, is pro- duced, and, these processes continuing, the entire belly- stalk, together with the yolk-stalk, becomes enclosed within a cylindrical cord extending from the ventral surface of the body to the chorion and forming the iijnbilical cord (Fig. 63, D). From this mode of development it is evident that the cord is, strictly speaking, a portion of the embryo, its sur- faces being completely cQvered by embryonk-ectodexni^ the amnion being carried during its formation further and further from the umbilicus until finally it is attached around the, distal extremity of the cord. In_enclosing the yolk-stalk the umbilical cord,, encloses. also a small portion of what was originally the extra- embryonic body-cayit)^_sur^ the yolk-stalk. A sec- tion of the cord in an early stage of its development (Fig. 65, A) will show a thick mass of mesoderm occupying its dorsal region; this represents the mesoderm of the belly- stalk and contains the allantois and the umbilical arteries and vein (the two veins originally present in the belly-stalk having fused), while toward the ventral surface there will be seen a distinct cavity in which lies the yolk-stalk with its accompanying blood-vessels. The portion of this coelom nearest the body of the embryo becomes much enlarged, and during the second month of development contains some coilsTHE UMBILICAL CORD. Pjg 65—Transverse Sections of the Umbilical Cord of Embryos OF (A) 1.8 CM. AND (B) 2S CM. ol, Allantois; c, coelom; ua, umbilical artery; uv, umbilical vein; 3'-^ yolk-stalk.THE UMBILICAL CORD. 125 of the small intestine, but later the entire cavity becomes more and more encroached upon by the growth of the meso- derm, and at about the fourth month is entirely obliterated. A section of the cord subsequent to that period of develop- ment will show a solid mass of mesoderm in which are em- bedded the umbilical arteries and vein, the allantois, and the rudiments of the yolk-stalk (Fig. 65, B). When fully formed, the umbilical cord measures on the average 55 cm. in length, though it varies considerably in different cases, and has a diameter of about 1.5 cm. Tt presents the appearance of being spirally twisted, an appear- ance largely due, however, to the spiral course pursued by the umbilical arteries, though the entire cord may undergo a certain amount of torsion from the movements of the embryo in the later stages of development and may even be knotted. The greater part of its substance is formed by the mesoderm, the cells of which become stellate and form a reticulum, the meshes of which are occupied by connec- tive-tissue fibrils and a mucous fluid which gives to the tissue a jelly-like consistence, whence it has received the name of Wharton's jelly. The Chorion.—To understand the developmental changes which the chorion undergoes it will be of advantage to obtain some insight into the manner in which the ovum becomes implanted in the wall of the uterus. Nothing is known as to how this implantation is eflfected in the case of the human ovum; it has already been accomplished in the youngest ovum at present known. But the process has been observed in other mammals, and what takes place in Spermophilus, for example, may be supposed to give a clue to what occurs in the human ovum. In the spermophile the ovum lies free in the uterine cavity up to a stage at which the vacuolization of the central cells is almost com- pleted (Fig. 66, A). At one region of the covering layerIMPLANTATION OF THE OVUM. the cells become thicker and later form a syncytial projer- tion or knob which comes into contact with the uterine mucosa (Fig. 66, B), and at the point of contactjthe mucosa cells undergo degeneration, allowing the knob to come into relation with the deeper tissues of the uterus (Fig. 66, C), / the process apparently being one in which the mucosa cells ^ I are eroded by the syncytial knob. It seems probable that in the human ovum the process is C Fig. 66.—Successive Stages in the Implantation of the Ovum of THE SpERMOPPIILE. a, syncytial knob; k, inner cell md.?.s.—{Rejsek.) at first of a similar nature and that as the covering layer cells come into contact with the deeper layers of the uterus, these too are eroded, and, the uterine blood-vessels being included in the erosion process, an extravasation of blood plasma and corpuscles occurs in the vicinity of the burrow- ing ovum. In the meantime the ovum has increased con- siderably in size, its growth in these early stages beingIMPLANTATION OF THE OVUM. 127 C Fig. 67.—Diagrams Illustrating the Implantation of the Ovum. ac, amniotic cavity; bs, belly-stalk; cf, chorion f rondosum; cl, chorion Iseve; rffjKclccidua capsularis; ic, inner cell mass; j, space surround- ing ovum which becomes the intervillous space; um, uterine mucosa; v, chorionic villus; ys, yolk sac. •128 THE CHORIONIC VILLI. especially rapid, and the area of contact consequently in- creases in size, entajling^continiied erosion of the uterine niucosa. At the same time, too^,~the uterine tissues sur- rounding^ ovum grow up around it. forming at first as itjvvere^gT^ular walL-(Fig. 67, A), and eventually com- pletely enclose it, forming an envelope known as the decidua I ca^sularis or renexa. The blood extravasation is now con- tained within a closed space bounded on the one hand by the uterine tissues and on the other by the wall of the ovum (Fig. 67, B). Over either the whole or a greater portion of the surface of the ovum processes, termed chorionic villi, now begin to grow out from the chorion into the surrounding blood space (Fig. 67, B), some floating freely in the space, while others traverse it and come into contact by their extremities with the unaltered uterine tissues, forming what are termed fixation villi. Later the portion of the blood space bounded by the decidua capsularis disappears and with it the villi from the corresponding portion of the chorion, so that this latter structure becomes differentiated into two regions (Fig. 67, C), one which is destitute or practically so of villi, the chorion Jccve, and one, the chorion frondosum, corix- sponding^to_tliejittachment of the belly-stalk, provided with them. The blood space into which the villi project is usu- ally termed the intervillous space. The villi are at first irregularly lobed processes, formed by asolid massjpfectodenpallraijhQderm rells. As devel- opment proceeds the lobes become much more slender and branch so that each villus assumes a dendriti£_faniL Iii the meantime, however, processes from the chorionic meso- derm grow out nito each villus, extending out even into the terminal branches and forming ji_central core in which bl£od-yessels_jlev^ whirji become confinnnu^ with the umbilical arteries and veins. When this has occurred, theTHE CHORIONIC VILLI. ectoderm differentiates into two layers, a superficial one in which the cell-boundaries disappear so that it consists of a continuous layer of protoplasm in which numerous nuclei are embedded (Fig. 69, A, s) and which is termed the syncytium, and an inner one, consisting of well-defined cells arranged in a single layer and termed the Langhans cells (Ic). It may be stated that the exact significance of these two layers is still under discussion, some authors believing the Langhans cells to be mesodermal, while others, admitting that Fig. 68.—Two Villi from the Chorion of an Embryo of 7 mm. they are ectodermal, maintain the view that the syncytium is really maternal tissue. The view here presented is most in accord with the more recent observations (Minot, Peters, Mar- chand, Rossi Doria). As development proceeds the villi, which are at first dis- tributed evenly over the chorion frondosum, are separated into groups termed cotyledons (Fig. 70) by the growth into the intervillous space of trabeculae from the walls ofTHE CHORIONIC VILLI. I30 Fig. 69.—Transverse Sections through Chorionic Villi in (A) THE Fifth and (B) the Seventh Month of Development. cf, Canalized fibrin; Ic, Langhans cells; s, syncytium.— (A which is more highly magnified than B, from Ssymonozuicz; B from Minot.)THE CHORIONIC VILLI. the uterus, the fixation villi becoming connected with these septa as well as with the general uterine wall. The ecto- derm of the villi also undergoes certain changes with ad- vancing growth, the layer of Langhans cells disappearing except in small areas scattered irregularly in the villi, and the syncytium, though persisting, undergoes local thicken- ings which become replaced, more or less extensively, by depositions of fibrin (Fig.-^,?B, cf). The changes which occur during the later stages of devel- FiG. 70.—Mature Placenta after Separation from the Uterus. c, Cotyledons; ch, chorion, amnion, and dccidua vera; um, umbilical cord.— ( Kollmann.) opment in the chorion are very similar to those described for the villi. Thus, the mesoderm thickens, its outermost layers becoming exceedingly fibrillar in structure, while the ectoderm differentiates into two layers, the outer of which is syncytial while the inner is cellular, and later still, as in the villi, the syncytial layer is replaced in irregular patches by a peculiar form of fibrin which is traversed by flattened anastomosing spaces and to which Minot has ap- plied the name cmuilized fibrin (Fig. 71).THE DECIDUvE. 132 The Deciduae.—In connection with the phenomenon of menstruation periodic aUerations occur in tlie mucous mem- brane of the uterus. If during one of these periods a fertihzed ovum reaches the uterus, the desquamation of portions of the epithehum does not occur nor is there any Fig. 71.—Section through the Placental Chorion of an Embryo OF Seven Months. c, Cell laj'er; cp, remnants of epithelium; fb, fibrin la3'er; mes, meso- derm.— (Minot.) appreciable hemorrhage into the cavity of the uterus; the uterine mucosa remains in what is practically the ante- menstrual condition until the conclusion of pregnancy,THE DECIDU^. when, after the birth of the fetus, a considerable portion of its thickness is expelled from the uterus, forming what is termed the dccidiice. In other words, the sloughing of the uterine tissue which concludes the process of menstruation is postponed until the close of pregnancy, and then takes place simultaneously over the whole extent of the uterus. Of course, the changes in the uterine tissues are somewhat Fig. 72.—Diagram showing the Relations of the Fetal Membranes. Am, Amnion; Ch, chorion; M, muscular wall of uterus; C, decidua capsularis; B, decidua basalis; V, decidua vera; Y, yolk-stalk. more extensive during pregnancy than during menstrua- tion, but there is an undoubted fundamental similarity in the changes during the two processes. The human ovum comes into direct apposition with only a small portion of the uterine wall, and the changes whichTHE DECIDU^. 134 this portion of the wall undergoes differ somewhat from those occurring- elsewhere. Consequently it becomes pos- sible to divide the deciducT into (i) a portion which is not in direct contact with the ovum, the decidua vera (Fig. 72, V) and (2) a portion which is. The latter portion'is again capable of division. The ovum becomes completely embedded in the mucosa, but, as has been pointed out, the Fig. 73.—Surface View of Half of the Decidua Vera at the End OF the Third Week of Gestation. d, Mucous membrane of the Fallopian tubes; ds, prolongation of the vera toward the cervix uteri; pp, papillae; rf, marginal furrow.— {Kolhnann.) chorionic villi reach their full development only over that portion of the chorion to which the belly-stalk is attached. The decidua which is in relation to this chorion frondosum undergoes much more extensive modifications than that in ■ relation to the chorion Iseve, and to it the name of decidua % basalis {decidua serotina) (Fig. 72, B) is applied, whileTHE DECIDUA VERA. the rest of the decidua which encloses the ovum is termed the dccidiia capsularis (dccidiia rcHcxa) (C). The changes which give rise to the decidua vera may first be described and those occurring in the others consid- ered in succession. (a) Decidua vera.—On opening a uterus during the fourth or fifth month of pregnancy, when the decidua vera is at the height of its development, the surface of the mucosa presents a corrugated appearance and is tra- versed by irregular and rather deep grboves (Fig. 73). This appearance ceases at the internal orifice, the mu- cous membrane of the cervix uteri not forming a decidua, and the de- ciducTS of the two surfaces of the uterus are separated by a distinct furrow known as the marginal groove. Fig.. 74.—Diagrammatic Sections of the Uterine Mucos\ A in THE Non-pregnant Uterus, and B, at the Beginning of Pregnancy. c, Stratum compactum; gl, the deepest portions of the elands- m muscular layer; j/>, stratum spongiosum.—(/C»;/rfrfli and Engelmann.) ' In sections the mucosa" is found to have become greatly thickened, frequently measuring i cm. in thickness, and its glands have undergone very considerable modification. Normally almost straight (Fig. 74, A), they increase in136 THE DECIDUA VERA. length, not only keeping pace with the thickening of the mucosa, but surpassing its growth, so that they become very much contorted and are, in addition, considerably dilated (Fig. 74, B). Near their mouths they are dilated, but not very much contorted, while lower down the reverse is the case, and it is possible to recognize three layers in the de- cidua, (i) a stratum compactum nearest the lumen of the uterus, containing the straight but dilated portions of the glands; (2) a stratum spongiosum, so called from the ap- pearance which it presents in sections owing to the dilated and contorted portions of the glands being cut in various planes; and (3) next the muscular coat of the uterus a layer containing the contorted but not dilated extremities of the glands is found. Only in the last layer does the epithelium of the glands retain its normal columnar form; elsewhere the cells, separated from the walls of the glands, become enlarged and irregular in shape and eventually degenerate. In addition to these changes, the epithelium of the mucosa disappears completely during the first month of pregnancy, and the tissue between the glands in the stratum coiiTjjactuni becomes packed with large, often multinucleated cells, which are termed the decidual cells and are probably derived from the connective tissue cells of the mucosa. After the end of the fifth month the increasing size of the embryo and its membranes exerts a certain amount of pressure on the decidua, and it begins to diminish in thick- ness. The portions of the glands which lie in the stratum compactum become more and more compressed and finally disappear, while in the spongiosum the spaces become much flattened and the vascularity of the whole decidua, at first so pronounced, diminishes greatly. (6) Decidua capsidaris.—The decidua capsularis has also been termed the decidua reflexa, on the supposition that it was formed as a fold of the uterine mucosa reflected overTHE DECIDUA CAPSULARIS. 137 the ovum after this had attached itself to the uterine wall. Since, however, the attachment of the ovum is to be re- garded as a process of burrowing into the uterine tissues (see p. 126), the necessity for an upgrowth of a fold is limited to an elevation of the uterine tissues in the neigh- borhood of the ovum to keep pace with its increasing size. In the Peters' ovum (Fig. 75), which measured i mm. m Sch. Fig. 75.—Section of an Ovum of i mm. A Section of the Embryo Lies in the Lower Part of the Cavity of the Ovum. D, Decidual E.U., uterine epithelium; Sch, blood-clot closing the aper- ture left by the sinking of the ovum into the uterine mucosa.— (From Strahl, after Peters.) diameter, the capsularis was not quite complete, a small area at one pole of the ovum being yet unenclosed by it and covered only by a patch of coagulated blood. But in a somewhat older ovum described by Rossi Doria, whose cavity measured 6X5 in diameter, the capsularis 13TI-IE DECIDUA BASALIS. formed a complete investment. Since it is part of the area of contact with the ovum it possesses no epithehum upon the surface turned toward the ovum, aUhough in the earher stages its surface is covered by an epithehum continuous with that of the decidua vera, and between it and the chorion there is a portion of the blood extravasation in which the villi formed from the chorion laeve float. Glands and blood- vessels also occur in its walls in the earlier stages of development. As the ovum continues to increase in size the capsularis begins to show signs of degeneration, these appearing first over the pole of the ovum opposite the point of fixation. Here, even in the case described by Rossi Doria, it has become reduced t^_a^ thin membrane destitute of either blood-vessels or glands, and the degeneration gradually extends throughout the entire capsule, the blood space which it encloses also disappearing. At about the fifth month the growth of_Jhe ovum has brought the capsularis in contact >t throughoivtits whole extent w^ith the vera, and it then ap- pears asa whitish transparent niemhrnne jyitlijio trace of eitlTer_^laiids or Moad-vessels, and very possibly it eventu- ahy degenerates completelv and disapi3ears_( Minot). (c) Dcxidiia basalis.—The structure of the decidua ba- salis, also known as the decidua serotina, is practically the same as that of the vera up to about the fifth month. It differs only in that, being part of the area of contact of the ovum, it loses its epithelium much earlier and is also the seat of extensive blood extravasations,''due to the erosion of its vessels by the chorionic trophoderm.^ Its glands, however, undergo the same changes as those of the vera, so that in it also a compactum and a spongiosum may l)e recognized. Beyond the fifth month, however, there is a p-reat difference between it and the vera, in that, being con- cerned with the nutrition of the embryo, it does not partakeTHE PLACENTA. of the degeneration noticeable in the other deciduae, but persists until birth, forming a part of the structure termed the placenta. The Placenta.—This organ, which forms the connection between the embryo and the maternal tissues, is composed of two parts, separated by the intervillous space. One of these parts is of embryonic origin, being the chorion fron- fesuni, while the other belongs to the maternal tissues and is the idecidua basalis. Hence the terms placenta fetalis and placenta uterina frequently applied to the two parts. The fully formed placenta is a more or less discoidal struc- ture, convex on the surface next the uterine muscularis and concave on that turned toward the embryo, the umbilical cord being continuous with it near the center of. the latter surface. It averages about 3.5 cm. in thickness, thinning out somewhat toward the edges, and has a diameter of 15 to 20 cm., and a weight varying between 500 and 1250 grams. It is situated on one of the surfaces of the uterus, the posterior more frequently than the anterior, and usually much nearer the fundus than the internal orifice. It devel- ops, in fact, wherever the ovum happens to become attached to the uterine walls, and occasionally this attachment is not accomplished until the ovum has descended nearly to the internal orifice, in which case the placenta may completely close this opening and form what is termed a placenta prcevia. If a section of a placenta in a somewhat advanced stage of development be made, the following structures may be distinguished : On the inner surface there will be a delicate layer representing the amnion (Fig. 76, Am), and next to this a somewhat thicker one which is tlie chorion (C/tQ^. in which the degenerative changes already mentioned may be observed. Succeeding this comes a much broader area composed of the large intervillous blood space in which lie141 THE PLACENTA. sections of the villi (vi) cut in various directions. Then follows the stratum compactum of the basalis, next the stratum spongiosum, next the outermost layer of the mucosa (D"). in which the uterine glands retain their epithelium, and, finally, the muscularis uteri (Mc). ^ These various structures which enter into the composi- tion of the placenta have, for the most part, been already described, and it remains here only to say a few words con- cerning the special structure of the basal compactum and concerning the origin of the intervillous space and its rela- tions to the villi and the maternal vessels. From the surface of the compactum processes arise, termed septa, which project into the intervillous space, grouping the villi into cotyledons and giving attachment to some of the fixation villi (Fig. 76). Throughout the greater extent of the placenta the septa do not reach the surface of_the chorion, but at the periphery, throughout a narrow- zone, they do come into contact with the chorion and unite beneath it to form a membrane which has been termed the closing plute. Beneath this lies the peripheral portion of the intervillous space, which, ownng to the ar- rangement of the septa in this region, appears to be imper- fectly separated from the rest of the space and forms what is termed the marginal sinus (Fig. 77). The probable origin of the intervillous space by the effu- sion of blood from the maternal vessels throughout the area of contact with the ovum has already been described, and if this be the true method of its development, then it is evident that the fetal villi are_in_ direct, coiitacl^ with Jlie maternal blood contsiined in the space. The uterine vessels Fig. 76.—Section through a Placenta of Seven Months' Develop- ment. Am, Amnion; cho, chorion; D, layer of decidua containing the uterine glands; Mc, muscular coat of the uterus; V€, maternal blood- vessel; Vi, stalk of a villus; vi, villi in section.— (Minot.)THE PLACENTA. becoxne very much enlarged during- pregnancy and those of the basalis communicate freely with the intervillous space, so that a free circulation of the matemal blood through the space occurs. The villi being conipletelyjiiijmersed^^ constantly renewed blood, an osmotic interchange takes place between the maternal blood of the space and the fetal blood contained in the vessels of the villi, the^maternal blood transmitting the nutritive materials necessary for the growth of_the embryo and receiving the waste products of the fetal metabolism. And it is only in this manner that the nutri- tion of the embryo can take place, since nowhere is there a direct communication of the two vascular systems. It has been maintained by many authors thaJLJlie^Lnter- villous space is lined throughout by a layer of_cells_XDntinn.ous with the endothelium of the maternal vessels, so that the fetal blood is separated from the maternal, not only by the felal tissues oFthe villi^but also by a layer of maternal ^tissue (com- pare what is said m~tlie small print on page 129 concerning the homologies of the ectodermal layers of the villi). The presence of such a layer is certainly what rnight be expected, since, as Oscar Hertwig has weTTexpressed it, "the employ- ment of spaces lying outside the blood-courses as component parts of the vascular system would be a phenomenon without analogy." It is to be noted that the arteries and veins of the decidua basalis do_iiQL-ComiTTm2icate by means of capillaries, ^"<L_lj}' the intervillous space, and~this has given rise to the" theory that the space is to be regarded as an enormously en- larged capillary, iiiwliich case it should be lined thrqnpjioiit- by maternal endotlielium~ Recent observations on the lower mammals, especially the rodents (rabbits, guinea-pig, etc.), seem to show, however, that the space owes its origin to a true effusion of maternal blood, and the evidence furnished by Peters, van Heukelom and Rossi Doria from the study of its formation in very early human embryos indicates its origin in the human placenta in the manner described above. But although It seems certain that the maternal blood con- tamed in the intervillous space is not separated bv maternal epithelium from the villi, nevertheless it is probable that in later stages the space is enclosed by epithelium. On the fet'il side It is, of course, lined by the chorionic ectoderm and on144 SEPARATION OF THE DECIDU^. the maternal side either by endotheHum which has extended out over the maternal tissues from the vessels which commu- nicate with the space or partly thus and partly by the spread- ing out of the syncytium of the fixation villi over the maternal surface (Rossi Doria). The erosion of the maternal tissues by the chorionic syncy- tium, both during the implantation of the ovum and the forma- tion of the placenta, is a most striking phenomenon and can hardly fail to suggest a comparison of the ovum to a parasite sending its destructive rootlets or haustoria down into the tis- sues of its host, thereby securing for itself additional possi- bilities for nutrition. Indeed, this idea has led to a suggestion by Rossi Doria that the formation of the placenta is a struggle between the parasite and the maternal tissues, the decidual cells of the latter, massing beneath the intervillous space to form what has been termed the basal plate, constituting a line of resistance to the continued encroachments of the syncytium. The Separation of the Deciduae at Birth.—At parturi- tion, after the rupture of the amnion and the expulsion of the fetus, there still remains in the uterine cavity the decidu?e and the amnion, which is in contact but not fused with the decidujE. A continuance of the uterine contractions, pro- ducing what are termed the " after-pains," results in the separation of the placenta from the uterine walls, the separa- tion taking place in the deep layers of the spongiosum, so that the portion of the mucosum which contains the unde- generated glands remains behind. As soon as the placenta has separated, the separation of the decidua vera takes place gradually though rapidly, the line of separation again being in the deeper layers of the stratum spongiosum, and the whole of the deciduae, together with the amnion, is expelled from the uterus, forming what is known as the " after- birth." Hemorrhage from the uterine vessels during and after the separation of the deciduee is prevented by the contrac- tions of the uterine walls, assisted, according to some au- thors, by a preliminary blocking of the mouths of the uter- ine vessels by certain large polynuclear decidual cells found during the later months of pregnancy in the outer layersLITERATURE. of the decidiia basalis. Tlie regeneration of the uterine mucosa after parturition has its starting-point from the epithehum of the undegenerated glands which persist, this epithehum rapidly evolving a complete mucosa over the entire surface of the uterus. LITERATURE. S. VAN Heukelom : " Ueber die menschliche Placentation," Archil' fiir Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abih., i8g8. W. His : " Die Umschliessung der menschlichen Frncht wiihrend der friihesteii Zeit des Schwangerschafts," Archiv fiir Anat. unci Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1897. F. Keibel: " Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Placenta," Anat. An- seiger, w, 1889. J. KoLLMANN: " Die menschlichen Eier von 6 mm. Grosse," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1879. G. Leopold : " Ueber ein sehr Junges menschliches Ei in situ," Arb. aus der kdnigl Frauenklinik in Dresden, iw, 1906. F. Marchand: " Beobachtungen an jungen menschlichen Eiern," Anat. Hefte, XXI, 1903. J. Merttens : " Beitriige zur normalen und pathologischen Anatomic der menschlichen Placenta," Zeitschrift fiir Geburtshiilfe und Gynackol, xxx and xxxi, 1894. C. S. Minot: "Uterus and Embryo," Journal of Morphol, 11, 1889. G. Paladino : " Sur la genese des espaces intervilleux du placenta humain et de leur premier cpntenu, comparativement a la meme partie chez quelques mammiferes," Archives Ital. de Biolog., xxxi and xxxii^ 1899. H. Peters: "Ueber die Einbettung des menschlichen Eies und das friiheste bisher bekannte menschliche Placentationsstadium," Leip- zig und Wien, 1899. J. Rejsek: "Anheftung (Implantation) des Sangetiereies an die Uteruswand, insbesondere des Eies von Spermophilus citellus," Arch, fiir mikrosk. Anat., lxiii, 1904. T. Rossi Doria : " Ueber die Einbettung des menschlichen Eies, studirt an einem kleinen Eie der Zweiten Woche," Arch, fiir Gynaek., LXXVI, 1905. C. Ruge: "Ueber die menschliche Placentation," Zeitschrift fiir Ge- burtshiilfe und Gynaekol., xxxix, 1898. F. Graf Spee: "Ueber die menschliche Eikammer und Decidua re- flexa," Verhandl. des Anat. Gesellsch., xii, 1898. J. C. Webster: "Human Placentation," Chicago, 1901. 14147 PART 11. ORGANOGENY. CHAPTER VI. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE INTEGUMENTARY SYSTEM. The Development of the Skin.—The skin is composed of two embryologically distinct portions, the outer epidermal layer being developed from the ectoderm, while the dermal layer is mesenchymatous in its origin. The ectoderm covering the general surface of the body is, in the earliest stages of development, a single layer of cells, but at the end of the first month it is composed of two layers, an outer one, the epitrichium, consisting of slightly flattened cells, and a lower one whose cells are larger and which will give rise to the epidermis (Fig. 78, A). During the second month the differences between the two layers become more pronounced, the epitrichial cells assuming a characteristic domed form and becoming vesicular in struc- ture (Fig. 78, B). These cells persist until about the sixth month of development, but after that they are cast off, and, becoming mixed with the secretion of sebaceous glands which have appeared by this time, form a constituent of the vernix caseosa. In the meantime changes have been taking place in the epidermal layer which result in its becoming several layers thick (Fig. 78, B), the innermost layer being composed of cells rich in protoplasm while those of the outer layers are148 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKIN. irregular in shape and have dearer contents. As develop- ment proceeds the number of layers increases and the super- ficial ones, undergoing a horny degeneration, give rise to the stratum corneum, while the deeper ones become the stratum Malpighii. At about the fourth month ridges develop on the under surface of the epidermis, projecting downward into the dermis (Fig. 84), and later secondary ridges appear in the intervals between the primary ones, while on the Fig. 78.—A, Section of Skin from the Dorsum of Finger of an Embryo of 4.5 cm.; B, from the Plantar Surface of the Foot OF an Embryo of 10.2 cm. et, Epitrichium; cp, epidermis. palms and soles ridges appear upon the outer surface of the epidermis, corresponding in position to the primary ridges of the under surface. The mesenchyme which gives rise to the dermis grows in from all sides between the epidermis and the outer layer of the myotomes, which are at first in contact, and forms a continuous layer underlying the epidermis and showing no indications of a segmental arrangement. It becomes con-DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKIN. 149 verted principally into fibrous con- nective tissue, the outer layers of which are relatively compact, while the deeper ones are looser, forming the subcutaneous areolar tissue. Some of the mesen^hji3ial_cells, however, become coirv^rted_jnto, non-striated muscle-fibers, which for the most part are few in number and associated with the hair follicles, though in cer- tain regions, such as the skin of the scrotum, they are very numerous and form a distinct layer known as the dartos. Some cells also arrange them- selves in groups and undergo a fatty degeneration, well-defined masses of adipose tissue embedded in the lower layers of the dermis being thus formed at about the sixth month. Although the dermal mesenchyme is unsegmental in character, yet the nerves which send branches to it are segmental, and it might be expected that indica- tions of this condition would be retained by the cutaneous nerves even in the adult. A study of the cutaneous nerve- supply in the adult realizes to a very considerable extent this expectation, the areas supplied by the various nerves forming more or less distinct zones, and being therefore segmental (Fig. 79). But a considerable commingling of adjacent areas has also occurred. Thus, while the distribution of the Fig. 79—Diagram showing the Cutaneous Distribution of the Spinal Nerves — (Head.)DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKIN. cutaneous branches of the fourth thoracic nerve, as determined expenmentally in the monkey (Macacus), is distinctly zonal or segmental, the nipple lying practically in the middle line of the zone, the upper half of its area is also supplied or over- lapped by fibers of the third nerve and the lower half by fibers of the fifth (Fig. 80), so that j^ny area of_skiiLin the zone is innervated by fibers coming from at least two segmental nerves (ISherrington). And, furthermore, the distribution of each nerve crosses the mid-ventral line of the body, forming a more or less extensive crossed overlap. And not only is there a confusion of adjacent areas but an area may shift its position relatively to the deeper structures Fig. 80.—Diagram showing the Overlap of the ///, IV, and V In- tercostal Nerves of a Monkey.—(Sherrington.) supplied by the same nerve, so that the skin over a certain muscle is not necessarily supplied by fibers from the nerve which supplies the muscle. Thus, in the lower half of the abdomen, the skin at any point will be supplied by fibers from higher nerves than those supplying the underlying muscles (Sherrington), and the skin of the limbs may receive twigs from nerves which are not represented at all in the muscle- supply (second and third thoracic and third sacral). The Development of the Nails.—The earliest indica- tions of the development of the nails have been described by Zander in embryos of about nine weeks as slight thicken- ings of the epidermis of the tips of the digits, these thick- enings being separated from the neighboring tissue by a faint groove. Later the nail areas migrate to the dorsal surfaces of the terminal phalanges (Fig. 81) and the groovesDEVELOPMENT OF THE NAILS. surrounding the areas deepen, especially at their proximal edges, where they form the nail-folds (nf), while distally thickenings of the epidermis occur to form what have been termed sole-plates (sp), structures quite rudimentary in man, but largely developed in the lower animals, in which they form a considerable portion of the claws. The actual nail substance does not form, however, until Fig. 8i.—Longitudinal Section through the Terminal Joint of THE Index-finger of an Embryo of 4.5 cm. e, Epidermis; ep, epitrichium; nf, nail fold; Ph, terminal phalanx; sp, sole plate. the embryo has reached a length of about 17 cm. By this time the epidermis has become several layers thick and its outer layers, over the nail areas as well as elsewhere, have bcome transformed into the stratum corneum (Fig. 82, sc), and it is in the deep layers of this (the stratum lucidum) tliat keratin granules develop in cells^jwdiidi_de^pnpratP to g]ye_riseJCLth^iaiLsii^^ (n). ATiS^fcrformaSon, accordingly, the nail is covered by the outer layers of the stratum corneum as well as by the epitrichium,. the twoDEVELOPMENT OF THE NAILS. 152 sp- sc ep together forming what has been termed the eponychiiim (Fig. 82, cp). The epitrichinm soon disappears, however, leaving only the outer layers of the stratum corneum as a covering, and this also later disappears with the exception of a narrow band sur- rounding the base of the nail which persists as the perionyx, W^^nb The formation of the nail begins in the more proximal portion of the nail area and its further growth is by the addition of new keratinized cells to its proximal edge and lower surface, these cells being formed only in the proximal part of the nail bed in a region marked by its whit- ish color and termed the lunula. The first appearance of the nail-areas, at the tips of the digits as described by Zander has not yet been confirmed by later observers, but the migration of the areas to the dorsal surface neces- sitated by such a location of the primary differentiation affords an explanation of the otherwise anomalous cutaneous nerve-supply of the nail-areas in the adult, this being from the palmar (plantar) nerves. The Development of the Hairs. —The hairs begin to develop at about the third month and continue to be formed during the remaining portions of fetal life. They arise_as solid cylindrical downgrowtlis, pro- jecting obliquely into the subjacent dermis from the lower surface of Fig. 82.—Longitudinal* Section through the Nail Area in an Em- bryo OF 17 CM. cp, Eponychiiim; n, nail substance; nb, nail bed; sc, stratum cor- neum ; sp, sole plate.— (Okamura.)DEVELOPMENT OF THE HAIRS. 153 the epidermis. As these downgrowths continue to elon- gate, they assume a somewhat club-shaped form (Fig. 83), and latertlieextrem^ of each club moulds itself over the summit of a smalj_2apilLa_ which develops^irojn the dermis (Fig. 83). Even before the dermal papilla has made its appearance, however, a differentiation of Fig. 83.—The Development of a Hair. c, Cylindrical cells of stratum mucosum; hf, wall of hair follicle; mesoderm; mu, stratum mucosum of epidermis; p, hair papilla; r, root of hair; s, sebaceous gland.— (Kollmann.) the cells of the downgrowth becomes evident, the cen- tral cells becoming at first spindle-shaped and then un- dergoing a keratinization to form the hair shaft, while the more peripheral ones assume a cuboidal form and constitute the lining of the hair follicle. The further154 DEVELOPMENT OF THE HAIRS. growth of the hair takes place by the addition to its basal portion of new keratinized cells, probably produced by the multiplication of the epidermal cells which en- velop the papilla. From the cells which form the lining of each follicle an outgrowth takes place into the surrounding dermis to form a sebaceous gland, which is at first solid and club-shaped, though later it becomes lobed. The central cells of the out- growth separate from the peripheral and from one another, and, their protoplasm undergoing a fatty degeneration, they finally pass out into the space between the follicle walls and the hair and so reach the surface, the peripheral cells later giving rise by division to new generations of central cells. During fetal life the fatty material thus poured out upon the surface of the body becomes mingled with the cast-off epitrichial cells and constitutes the white oleaginous sub- stance, the vernix caseosa, which covers the surface of the new-born child. The muscles, arrectores pilorum, connected with the hair follicles arise from the mesenchyme cells of the surrounding dermis. The first growth of hairs forms a dense covering over the entire surface of the fetus, the hairs which compose it being exceedingly fine and silky and constituting what is termed the lanugo. This growth is cast off soon after birth, except over the face, where it is hardly noticeable on account of its extreme fineness and lack of coloration. The coarser hairs which replace it in certain regions of the body probably arise from new follicles, since the formation of follicles takes place throughout the later periods of fetal life and possibly after birth. But even these later formed hairs do not individually persist for any great length of time, but are continually being shed, new or secondary hairs normally developing in their places. The shedding of a hair is pre- ceded by a cessation of the proliferation of the cells cover-DEVELOPMENT OF THE SUDORIPAROUS GLANDS. 155 ing the dermal papilla and by a shrinkage of the papilla, whereby it becomes detached from the hair, and the replac- ing hair arises from a papilla which is probably budded of¥ from the older one before its degeneration and carries with it a cap of epidermal cells. It is uncertain whether the cases of excessive de- velopment of hair over the face and upper part of the body which occasionally oc- cur are due to an excessive development of the later hair follicles (hypertricho- sis) or to a persistence and continued growth of the lanugo. The Development of the Sudoriparous Glands.—The sudoripar- ous glands arise during the fifth month as solid cylindrical outgrowths from the primary ridges of the epi- dermis (Fig. 84), and at first project vertically downward into the subjacent dermis. Later, however, the lower end of each downgrowth is thrown into coils, and at the same time a lumen appears in the center. Since, however, the -cylinders are formed from the deeper layers of the epider- mis, their lumina do not at first open upon the surface, but gradually approach it as the cells of the deeper layers of the epidermis replace those which are continually being cast off from the surface of the stratum corneum. The final open- ing to the surface occurs during the seventh month of development. The Development of the Mammary Glands.—In the majority of the lower mammals a number of mammary glands occur, arranged in two longitudinal rows, and it has Fig. 84.—Lower Surface of a De- tached Portion of Epidermis FROM the Dorsum of the Hand. h, Hair follicle; s, sudoriparous gland.— (Blaschko.)156 DEVELOPMENT OF TTIE MAMMARY GLANDS. mr m been observed that in the pig the first indication of their development is seen in a thickening of the epidermis along a line situated at the junction of the abdominal walls with the membrana reuniens (Schulze). This thickening subse- quently becomes a pronounced ridge, the milk ridge, from which, at certain points, the mammary glands develop, the ridge disappearing in the intervals. In a human embryo 4 mm. in length an epidermal thickening has been ob- served which extended from just below the axilla to the inguinal region (Fig. 85) and was apparently equiva- lent to the milk line of the pig, and in em- bryos of 14 or 15 mm. the upper end of the line had become a pro- nounced ridge, while more posteriorly the thickening had disappeared. The further history of the ridge has not, however, been yet traced in human embryos, and the next stage of the development of the glands which has been observed is one in which they are represented by a circular thickening of the epidermis which projects downward into the dermis (Fig. 86, A). Later the thickening becomes lobed (Fig. 86, B), and its superficial and central cells become corni- fied and are cast off, so that the gland area appears as a depression of the surface of the skin. During the fifth and sixth months^the lobes elongate into soHd cylindrical col- umns of cells (Fig. 87) resembling not a little the cylinders Fig. 85.—Milk Ridge (wr) in a Human Em BR Yo.—(Ka lUus.)DEVELOPMENT OF THE MAMMARY GLANDS. 157 which become*converted into sudoriparous glands'", and each column becomes slightly enlarged at its lower end, from which outgrowths begin to develop to form the acini. lunienfirst^apgearsji^^ is formed by thejeparation andJbreaking down of the cen- /' \» '0 ^3 O ft '^«> ° O 3 O o 0 ^ oaf a? . Fig. 86.—Sections through the Epidermal Thickenings which Rep- resent THE Mammary Gland in Embryos {A) of 6 cm. and (S) OF 10.2 CM. tral cells, the peripheral cells persisting as the lining of the acini and ducts. The elevation of the gland area above the surface to form the nipple appears to occur at different periods in different embryos and frequently does not take place until after birth. In the region around the nipple sudoriparous and sebaceous glands develop, the latter also occurring within the nipple158 DEVELOPMENT OF THE MAMMARY GLANDS. area and frec[uently op^enin^^ lacteal ducts. In the areola, as the area surrounding the nipple is termed, other glands known as Montgomery's glands, also appear, their development resembling that of the mammary^gland so closely as to render it probable that they are really''rudimentary mammary glands'! The further development of the glands, consisting of an increase in the length of the ducts and the development from them of additional acini, continues slowly up to the time of puberty in both sexes, but at that period further growth Fig. 87.—Section through the Mammary Gland of an Embryo of 25 CM. I, Stroma of the gland.—{From Nagel, after Basch.) ceases in the male, while in females it continues for a time and the subjacent dermal tissues, especially the adipose tis- sue, undergo a rapid development. The occurrence of a milk ridge has not yet been observed in a sufficient number of embryos to determine whether it is a normal development or is associated with the formation of supernumerary glands {polymastia). This is by no means an infrequent anomaly; it. has been observed in 19 per cent, of over 100,000 soldiers of the German army who were examined, and occurs in 47 per cent, of individuals in certain regions of Germany. The extent to which the anomaly is developed varies from the occurrence of well-developed accessory glands to that of rudimentary accessory nipples (hyperthclia), these latter sometimes occurring in the areolar area of a normal gland and being possibly due in such cases to an h)^pertrophy of one or more of Montgomery's glands. <LITERATURE. Although the mammary glands are typically functional only in females in the period immediately succeeding pregnancy, cases are not unknown in which the glands have been well developed and functional in males (gyncucomastia). Further- more, a functional activity of the glands normally occurs imme- diately after birth, infants of both sexes yielding a few drops of a milky fluid, the so-called ivitch-uiilk (Hexenmilch), when the glands are subjected to pressure. LITERATURE. J. T. BowEN: " The Epitrichial Layer of the Human Epidermis," Anat. Anzeiger, vf, 1889. Brouha : " Recherches sur les diverses phases du developpement et de I'activite de la mammelle," Arch, de Biol., xxi, 1905. G. Burckhard: "Ueber embryonale Hypermastie und Hyperthelie," Anat. Hefte, viu, 1897. H. Head: " On Disturbances of Sensation with Special Reference to the Pain of Visceral Disease," Brain, xvi, 1892; xvii, 1894; and xix, 1896. E. Kallius: " Ein Fall von Milchleiste bei einem menschlichen Em- bryo," Anat. Heftc, vin, 1897. T. Okamura: "Ueber die Entwicklung des Nagels beim Menschen," Archiv fiir Dermatol, und Syphilol., xxv, 1900. H. Schmidt: "Ueber normale Hyperthelie menschlicher Embryonen und iiber die erste Anlage der menschlichen Milchdriisen iiber- haupt," Morphol. Arbciten, xvii, 1897. C. S. Sherrington: "Experiments in Examination of the Peripheral Distribution of the Fibres of the Posterior Roots of some Spinal Nerves," Philos. Travis. Royal Soc, clxxxiv, 1893, and cxc, 1898. P. Stohr: " Entwickelungsgeschichte des menschlichen Wollhaares," Anat. Hefte, xxin, 1903. H. Strahl: "Die erste Entwicklung der Mammarorgane beim Men- schen," Verhandl. Anat. Gescllsch., xii, 1898.CHAPTER VII. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES AND SKELETON. It has been seen that the cells of a very considerable por- tion of the somatic and splanchnic mesoderm, as well as of parts of the mesodermic somites, become converted into mesenchyme. A very considerable portion of this becomes converted into what are termed connective or supporting tissues, characterized by consisting of a non-cellular matrix in which more or less scattered cells are embedded. These tissues enter to a greater or less extent into the formation of all the organs of the body, with the exception of those forming the central nervous system, and constitute a net- work which holds together and supports the elements of which the organs are composed; in addition, they take the form of definite membranes (serous membranes, fasciae), cords (tendons, ligaments), or solid masses (cartilage), or form looser masses or layers of a somewhat spongy texture (areolar tissue). The intermediate substance is somewhat varied in character, being composed sometimes of white, non-branching, non-elastic fibers, sometimes of yellow, branching, elastic fibers; of white, branching, but inelastic fibers which form a reticulum, or of a soft gelatinous sub- stance containing considerable quantities of mucin, as in the tissue which constitutes the Whartonian jelly of the umbili- cal cord. Again, in cartilage the matrix is compact and homogeneous, or, in other cases, more or less fibrous, pass- ing over into ordinary fibrous tissue, and, finally, in bone the organic matrix is largely impregnated with salts of lime. J 60i6i DEVELOPMENT OF CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Two views exist as to the mode of formation of the matrix, some authors rnaintajn^ it is produced by the actual transfoirnation of the mesen- chyme cells into fibers, while others_^laim_that_it is manu- factured by the cellsbut does no^directly represent the cells themselves. Fibrils and material out of v^hich fibrils could be~Tormed have undoubtedly been observed in connective- tissue cells, but whether or not these are later passed to the exterior of the cell to form a connective-tissue fiber is not yet certain, and on this hangs mainly the difference between Fig. 88.—Portion of the Center of Ossification of the Parietal Bone of a Human Embryo. the theories. Recently it has been held (Mall) that the mesenchyme of the embryo_is really a syncytium in and 4' from the protoplasm of which the matrix forms; if this be correct, the distinction which the older views make between the intercellular and intracellular origin of the matrix be- comes of little importance. Bone differs from the other varieties of connective tissue in that it is never a primary formation, but is always devel- oped either in fibrous tissue or cartilage; and according as it is associated with the one or the other, it is spoken of as 15l62 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. membrane bone or cartilaf;_e bone. In the development of membrane bone some of the connective-tissue ^lls^_which in consequence become known as osteoblasts, deposit hme salts in the matrix in the form o_f bony spicules which in- crease in size and soonjmite to form a network (Fig. 88). The trabeculse of the network continue to thicken, while, at the same time, the forma- tion of spicules extends further out into the con- nective-tissue membrane, radiating in all directions from the region in which it first developed. Later^ the^connective _tissue which lies_jipon either surface of the__xeticular plate of bone thus jjro.- ducedcondenses_to_jQDlJ a stout membrane,__the periosteum, between which and the osseous plate osteoblasts arrange themselves in a more or Fig. 89.—Longitudinal Section of less definite layer and Phalanx OF A Finger of an Em- ^ upon the surface BRYO OF 3i Months. i / n r c, Cartilage trabecule; p, periosteal of the plate a lamella Ot bone; po, periosteum; ossifica- (^Q^lpact bone. A mem- tion center.— {Szymojiowicz.) ^ brane lx)ne, such as one of the flat bones of the skull, thus comes to be composed of •two plates of compact bone, the inner and outer tables, en- closing and united to a middle plate of spongy bone which constitutes the diploe. With bones formed from cartilage the process is some- what different. In the centerofjdie_carti^^DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. 163 cellular matrix becomes increased so that the_cells appear toTelnore^scatte^^^ de^osi^f ormsJnjt. All around this region of calcification the cells arrange them- selves in rows (Fig. 89) and the_^rocess_o£_calc^^ extends intiilhe_l.raheculae of matrix which separate these rows! While these processes have been taking place the nTesenchyme surrounding the cartilage has become cc converted into a periosteum (/jo), similar to that of membrane bone, and its osteoblasts deposit a layer of bone (/>) upon the sur- face of the cartilage. The ■po m pi ^artilag;e_ cells now disap- pear from the intervajsjDCj tween The trabeculae of_jcal- cified matrix, which form a Ime^ network into which niasses of mesenckyme (Fig. 90, p'i), ^containing blood-vessels and osteo- Fig. 90.—The Ossification Center OF Fig. 88 More Highly Magni- fied. c, Ossifying trabeculie; cc, cavity of cartilage network; - m, marrow cells; p, periosteal bone; p%, ir- ruption, of periosteal tissue; po, periosteum.— (Ssymonowicz.) l3lasts, here and there^ trate from the periostemii, after having brokenthrough the layer of periosteal bone. These masses absorb a portion of the fine calcified network and so transform it into a coarse network, the meshes of \vhTcli tliey occupy to form the bone marrozv (m), and the osteoblasts which they contain arrange themselves on the sur- face of tlie persisting trabeculae and deposit layers of bone iiponjheir surfaces. In the meantime the calcification of the cartilage matrix has been extending, and as fast as the net- work of calcified trabeculae is formed it is invaded by thel164 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. mesenchyme, until finally the cartilage becomes entirely con- verted into a mass of spongy bone enclosed within a layer of more compact periosteal bone. As a rule, each cartilage bone is developed from a single center of ossification, and when it is found that a bone of the skull, for instance, develops by several centers, it is to be regarded as formed by the fusion of several primarily distinct bones, a conclusion which may generally be con- firmed by a comparison of the bone in question with its homologues in the lower vertebrates. Exceptions to this rule occur in bones situated in the median line of the body, these occasionally developing from two centers lying one on either side of the median line, but such centers are usually to be regarded as a double center rather than as two distinct centers, and are merely an expression of the fundamental bilaterality which exists even in median structures. More striking exceptions are to be found in the long bones in which one or both extremities develop from special centers which give rise to the epiphyses (Fig. 91, ep, ep'), the shaft or diaphysis (d) being formed from the primary center. Similar secondary centers appear in marked promi- nences on bones to which powerful muscles are attached (Fig. 91, a and Z?), but these, as well as the epiphysial cen- ters, can readily be recognized as secondary from the fact that they do not appear until much later than the primary centers of the bones to which they belong. These secondary centers give the necessary firmness required for articular surfaces and for the attachment of muscles and, at the same time, make provision for the growth in length of the bone, since^a plate of cartilage alwaysjnteiwe^^ epiphyieTan^^ This cartilage continues to be transformed into bone on both its surfaces by the extension of both the epiphysial and diaphysial ossification into it, and,165 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. at the same time, it grows in thickness with equal rapidity until the bone reaches its required length, whereupon the rapidity of the growth of the cartilage diminishes and it gradually becomes completely ossi- fied, uniting together the epiphysis and diaphysis. The growth in thickness of the long bones is, however, an entirely different process, and is due to the formation of new layers of periosteal bone on the outside of those already present. But in connection with this process an absolution of bone also takes place. A section through the middle of the shaft of a hume- rus, for example, at an early stage of development would show a peripheral zone of compact bone surrounding a core of spongy bone, the meshes of the latter being occu- pied by the marrow tissue. A sim- ilar section of an adult bone, on the other hand, would show only the peripheral compact bone, much thicker than before and enclosing a large marrow cavity in which no trace of spongy bone might remain. The difference depends on the fact that as the periosteal bone increases in thickness, there is a gradual absorption of the spongy bone and also of the earlier layers of periosteal bone, this absorption being carried on by large multinucleated cells, termed osteoclasts, derived from the marrowj-nesenchyme. By their action the bone is enabled Fig. 91.—The Ossifica- tion Centers of the Femur. a, and h, Secondary cen- ters for the great and lesser trochanters; d, diaphysis; ep, upper and ep', lower epiphy- sis.— (Testut.)DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. to reach its requisite diameter and strength, without becom- ing an almost soHd and unwieldy mass of compact bone. During the ossification of the cartilaginous trabeculse osteoblasts become enclosed by the bony substance, the cavi- ties in which they lie forming the lacunce and processes radiating out from them, the canaliculi, so characteristic of bone tissue. In the growth of periosteal bone not only do osteoblasts become enclosed, but blood-vessels also, the Haversian canals being formed in this way, and around Fig. 92.—A, Transverse Section of the Femur of a Pig Killed AFTER Having Been Fed with Madder for Four Weeks; B, the Same of a Pig Killed Two Months after the Cessation of the Madder Feeding. The heavy black Hue represents the portion of bone stained by the madder.—{After Flourens.) these lamellae of bone are deposited by the enclosed osteo- blasts to form Haversian systems. That the absorption of periosteal bone takes place during growth can be demonstrated by taking advantage of the fact that the coloring substance madder, when consumed with food, tinges the bone being formed at the time a distinct red. In pigs fed with madder for a time and then killed a section of the femur shows a superficial band of red bone (Fig. 92, A), but if the animals be allowed to live for one or two months after the cessation of the madder feeding, the red band will be found to be covered by a layer of white bone varying in thick- ness according to the interval elapsed since the cessation of feeding (Fig. 92, B) ; and if this interval amount to four months, it will be found that the thickness of the uncoloredDEVELOPMENT OF THE SKELETON. 167 bone between the red bone and the marrow cavity will have greatly diminished (Flotirens). The Development of the Skeleton.—Embryologically considered, the skeleton is composed of two portions, the axial skeleton, consisting of the skull, the vertebrae, ribs, tsa Fig. 93.—Frontal Section through Mesodermic Somites of a Calf Embryo. isa, intersegmental artery; my, myotome; n, central nervous system; nc, notochord; sea and scp, anterior and posterior portions of sclerotomes. and sternum, develo])ing from the sclerotomes of the meso- dermal_somites, and the appendicular skeleton, which in- cludes the pectoral and pelvic girdles and the bones of the limbs, and which arises from the mesenchyme of the somatic mesoderm. It will be convenient to consider first the devel-i68 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRA. opment of the axial skeleton, and of this the differentiation of the vertebral column and ribs may first be discussed. The Development of the Vertebras and Ribs.—The mesenchyme formed from the sclerotome of each meso- dermic somite grows inward toward the median line and forms a mass lying between the notochord and the myotome, separated from the similar mass in front and behind by some loose tissue in which lies an intersegmental artery. Towards the end of the third week of development the cells of the posterior portion of each sclerotome condense to a tissue more compact than that of the anterior portion (Fig. 93), and a little later the two portions become separated by a cleft. At about the Fig. 94.—Transverse Section same time the posterior THROUGH THE INTERVERTEBRAL ^. , Plate of the First Cervical portion sends a process Vertebra of a Calf Embryo of medially, to enclose the 8.8 MM. 111 • • . , bc\ Intervertebral plate; m\ fourth notOchord by unitnig With myotome; s, hypochordal bar; XI, ^ corresponding process spinal accessory nerve.—(Froriep.) from the sclerotome of the other side, and it also sends a prolongation dorsally between the myotome and the spinal cord to form the verte- bral arch, and a third process laterally and ventrally along the distal border of the myotome to form a costal process (Fig. 94). The looser tissue of the anterior half of the sclerotome also grows medially to surround the notochord, filling up the intervals between successive denser portions, and it forms too a membrane extending between successive vertebral arches. Later the tissue surrounding the noto-169 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRA. chord which is derived from the anterior half of the sclero- tome associates itself with the posterior portion of the pre- ceding sclerotome to form what will later be a vertebra, the tissue occupying- and adjacent to the line of division between the anterior and posterior portions of the sclero- tomes condensing to form intervertebral fibrocartilages. Consequently each vertebra is formecMjvL parts from two sclerotomeSj, the original intersegmental artery passes over the body of a vertebra, and the vertebrae themselves alter- nate with the myotomes. With this differentiation the first or blastemic stage of the development of the vertebrae closes. In the second or cartilaginous stage, portions of the, scle- rotomic mesenchyme become transformed into cartilage. In the posterior portion of each vertebral body, that is to say in the portion formed from the anterior halves of the more posterior of the two pairs of sclerotomes entering into its formation, two centers of chondrification appear, one on each side of the median line, and these eventually unite to form a single cartilaginous body, the chondrification prob- ably also extending to some extent into the denser anterior portion of the body. A center also appears in each half of the vertebral arch and in each costal process, the carti- lages formed in the costal processes of the anterior cervical region uniting across the median line below the notochord, to form what has been termed a hypochordal bar (Figs. 94 and 95). These bars are for the most part but transitory, recalling structures occurring in the lower vertebrates; in the mammalia they degenerate before the close of the carti- laginous stage of development, except in the case of the atlas, whose development will be described later. As development proceeds the cartilages of the vertebral arches and costal processes increase in length and come into con- tact with the cartilaginous bodies, with which they even- tually fuse, and from the vertebral arches processes grow 16I/O DEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRAE. out which represent the future transverse and articular processes. The fusion of the cartilage of the costal process with the body of the vertebra does not, however, persist. Later a solution of the junction occurs and the process becomes a rib cartilage, the mesenchyme surrounding the area of solu- tion forming the costo-vertebral ligaments. At first the rib cartilage is separated by a distinct interval from the trans- verse process of the vertebral arch, but later it develops a process, the tubercle, which bridges the gap and forms an articulation with the transverse process. The mesenchyme which extends between successive ver- tebral arches does not chondrify, but later becomes trans- formed into the interspinous ligaments and the ligamenta flava, while the anterior and posterior longitudinal liga- ments are formed from unchondrified portions of the tissue surrounding the vertebral bodies. As was pointed out, the mesenchyme in the region of the cleft separating the anterior and posterior portions of a sclerotome becomes an intervertebral fibrocartilage, and, as the cartilaginous bodies develop, the portions of the noto- chord enclosed by them become constricted, while at the same time the portions in the intervertebral regions increase in size. Finally the notochord disappears from the verte- bral regions, although a canal, representing its former posi- tion, traverses each body for a considerable time, and in the intervertebral regions it persists as relatively large flat disks forming the pulpy nuclei of the fibrocartilages. The mode of development described above applies to the great majority of the vertebrae, but some departures from it occur, and these may be conveniently considered before passing on to an account of the ossification of the carti- lages. The variations affect principally the extremes of the series. Thus the posterior vertebrae present a reduction ofDEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRA. 171 the vertebral arches, those of the last sacral vertebrae being but feebly developed, while in the coccygeal vertebrae they are indicated only in the first. In the first cervical vertebra, the atlas, the reverse is the case, for the entire adult ver- tebra is formed from the posterior portion of a sclerotome, its lateral masses and posterior arch being the vertebral Fig. 95.—Longitudinal Section through the Occipital Region and Upper Cervical Vertebra of a Calf Embryo of 18.5 mm. has, Basilar artery; ch, notochord; Kc'-\ vertebral centra; Ic^*, inter- vertebral disks; occ, basioccipital; Sc'-\ hypochordal bars.— {Froriep.) arches, while its anterior arch is the hypochordal bar, which persists in this vertebra only. A well-developed centrum is also formed, however (Fig. 95), but it does not unite with the parts derived from the preceding- sclerotome, but during its ossification unites with the centrum of the epis- tropheus (axis), forming the odontoid process of that ver-172 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRA AND RIBS. tebra. The epistropheus consequently is formed by one and a half sclerotomes, while but half a one constitutes the atlas. The extent to which the ribs are developed in connec- tion with the various vertebrae also varies considerably. Throughout the cervical region they are short, the upper five or six being no longer than the transverse processes, with the tips of which their extremities unite at an early stage. In the upper five or six vertebrae a relatively large interval persists between the rib and the transverse process, forming the vertebral foramen, through which the vertebral vessels pass, but in the seventh vertebra the fusion is more extensive and the foramen is very small and hardly notice- able. In the thoracic region the ribs reach their greatest development, the upper eight or nine extending almost to the mid-ventral line, where their extremities unite to form a longitudinal cartilaginous bar from which the sternum develops (see p. 175). The lower three or four thoracic ribs are successively shorter, however, and lead to the con- dition found in the lumbar vertebrae, where they are again greatly reduced and firmly united with the transverse proc- esses, the union being so close that only the tips of the latter can be distinguished, forming what are known as the accessory tubercles. In the sacral region the ribs are re- duced to short flat plates, which unite together to form the lateral masses of the sacrum, and, finally, in the coccygeal region the blastemic costal processes of the first vertebra unite with the transverse processes to form the transverse processes of the adult vertebra, but no indications of them are to be found in the other vertebrae beyond the blastemic stage. The third stage in the development of the axial skeleton begins with the ossification of the cartilages, and in each vertebra there are typically as many primary centers of ossification as there were originally cartilages, except thatDEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRA AND RIBS. 173 but a single center appears in the body. Thus, to take a thoracic vertebra as a type, a center appears in each half of each vertebral arch at the base of the transverse process and gradually extends to form the bony lamina, pedicle, and the greater portion of the transverse and spinous processes; a single center gives rise to the body of the vertebra; and each rib ossifies from a single center. These various cen- ters appear early in embryonic life, but the complete trans- formation of the cartilages into bone does not occur until Fig. 96.—a, a Vertebra at Birth; B, Lumbar Vertebra showing Secondary Centers of Ossification. a, Center for the articular process; c, body; el, lower epiphysial plate; en, upper epiphysial plate; na, vertebral arch; s, center for spinous process; t, center for transverse process.— (Sappey.) some time after birth, each vertebra at that period consist- ing of three parts, a body and two halves of an arch, sepa- rated by unossified cartilage (Fig. 96, A). At about puberty secondary centers make their appearance; one ap- pears in the cartilage which still covers the anterior and posterior surfaces of the vertebral body, producing disks of bone in these situations, another appears at the tip of each spinous and transverse process (Fig. 96, B), and in the lumbar vertebrae others appear at the tips of the articu- lating processes. The epiphyses so formed remain separate until growth is completed and between the sixteenth and twenty-fifth years unite with the bones formed from the primary centers, which have fused by this time, to form a single vertebra.1/4 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VERTEBRA AND RIBS. Each rib ossifies from a single primary center situated near the angle, secondary centers appearing for the capit- ulum and tuberosity. In some of the vertebrae modifications of this typical mode of ossification, occur. Thus, in the upper five cervi- cal vertebrae the centers for the rudimentary ribs are sup- pressed, ossification extending into them from the vertebral arch centers, and a similar suppression of the costal centers occurs in the lower lumbar vertebra, the first only develop- ing a separate rib center. Furthermore, in the atlas a c Fig. 97—Upper Surface of the First Sacral Vertebra, and B, Ventral View of the Sacrum showing Primary Centers of Ossification. c, Body; na, vertebral arch; r, rib center.—(5"a/'/'t?3'.) double center appears in the persisting hypochordal bar, and the body which corresponds to the atlas, after developing the terminal epiphysial disks, fuses with the body of the epistropheus (axis) to form its odontcid process, this ver- tebra consequently possessing, in addition to the typical cen- ters, one (double) other primary and two secondary cen- ters. In the sacral region the typical centers appear in all five vertebrae, with the exception of rib centers for the last one or two (Fig. 97) and two additional secondary centersDEVELOPMENT OF THE STERNUM. give rise to plate-like epiphyses on each side, the upper plates forming the articular surface of the ilium. At about the twenty-fifth year all the sacral vertebrae unite to form a single bone, and a similar fusion occurs also in the rudi- mentary vertebrae of the coccyx. The majority of the anomalies seen in the vertebral column are due to the imperfect development of one or more cartilages or of the centers of ossification. Thus, a failure of an arch to unite with the body or even the complete absence of an arch or half an arch may occur, and in cases of spina bifida the two halves of the arches fail to unite dorsally. Occasionally the two parts of the double cartilaginous center for the body fail to unite, a double body resulting; or one of the two parts may entirely fail, the result being the formation of only one- half of the body of the vertebra. Other anomalies result from the excessive development of parts. Thus, the rib of the seventh cervical vertebra may sometimes remain distinct and be long enough to reach the sternum, and the first lumbar rib may also fail to unite with its vertebra. On the other hand, the first thoracic rib is occasionally found to be imperfect. The Development of the Sternum.—Longitudinal bars, which are formed by the fusion of the ventral ends of the anterior eight or nine cartilaginous thoracic ribs, represent the future sternum. At an early period the two bars come into contact anteriorly and fuse together (Fig. 98), and at this anterior end two usually indistinctly separated masses of cartilage are to be observed at the vicinity of the points where the ventral ends of the cartilaginous clavicles articu- late! These are the cpisternal cartilages {em), which jater normally unite with__the Jongitudinal bars and form part of the manubrium stenii, though occasionally they persist and fissify to form the ossa suprasternalia. The fusion of the longitudinal bars gradualiy extends^backward imiiX a single elongated ]date of cartilage results, with which the seven anterior ribs are united, one ()r two of the more pos- terior ribs which originally took part in the formation of each bar having separaFed. The portions of the bars1/6 DEVELOPMENT OF THE STERNUM. formed by these posterior ribs constitute the xiphoid process. The ossification of the sternum (Fig. 99) partakes to a certain extent of the original bilateral segmental origin of the cartilage, but there is a marked condensation of the centers ^^^s^ficiytjon jin^ con si d eral^l e varia-tian-.-in tlieir number also occurs. In the portion of the cartilage which lies below the junction of the thircTcostai cartilages a series n PxG 98—Formation of the Sternum in an Embryo of about 3 cm. cl, Clavicle; em, episternal cartilage— of _paii-s__of. centers appears just about birth, each center probably representing an epiphysial center of a correspond- ing rib. Later the centers of each pair fuse_andjhe_s^^ centers so formed, extending through the cartilage, even- tually unilTtolorm the'greater part oTthe body^of the bone. In each of the^wo ni^iicrmost se.^^-ments, however, but a smgle center appears, that uf the loxvei; segment unit- ing with the more posterior centers andjorming the up^DEVELOPMENT OF THE STERNUM. 1/7 part of the_bodx, while the uppermost center_gives rise to_ the mamibriiim jhich frequently persists as a distinct bone united to the body by a hinge-joint. A failure of the cartilaginous bars to fuse produces the con- dition known as cleft sternum, or if the failure to fuse affects only a portion of the bars there results a perforated sternum. A perforation or notching of the xiphoid cartilage is of fre- FiG. 99.—Sternum of 14 mm. New-born Child, as, Alisphenoid; ho, basioccipital; hs, SHOWING Centers of basisphenoid; eo, exoccipital; m. Ossification. Meckel's cartilage; os, orbitosphenoid; / to VII, Costal carti- p, periotic; ps, presphenoid; so, sella lages.—{Gegenbaiir.) turcica; s, supraoccipital.—(Levi.) quent occurrence owing to this being the region where the fusion of the bars takes place last. The suprasternal bones are the rudiments of a bone or carti- lage, the omosternum, situated in front of the manubrium in many of the lower mammalia. It furnishes the articular sur- faces for the clavicles and is possibly formed by a fusion of the ventral ends of the cartilages which represent those bones; hence its appearance as a pair of bones in the rudimentary condition. The Development of the Skull.—In its earliest stages the human skull is represented by a continuous mass ofDEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL. 178 mesenchyme which invests the anterior portion of the noto- chord and extends forward beyond its extremity into the nasal region, forming a core for the nasal process (see p. 88). From each side of this basal mass a wing projects dorsally to enclose the anterior portion of the medullary canal which will later become the cerebral part of the cen- tral nervous system. No indications of a segmental ori- gin are to be found in this mesenchyme; as stated, it is a continuous mass, and this is likewise true of the cartilage which later develops in it. The chondrification occurs first along the median line in what will be the occipital and sphenoidal regions of the skull (Fig. icq) and thence gradually extends forward into the ethmoidal region and to a certain extent dorsally at the sides and behind into the regions later occupied by the wings of the sphenoid (as and os) and the squamous por- tion of the occipital (s). No cartilage develops, however, in the rest of the sides or in the roof of the skull, but the mesenchyme of these regions becomes converted into a dense membrane of connective tissue. While the chondri- fication is proceeding in the regions mentioned, the mesen- chyme which encloses the internal ear becomes converted into cartilage, forming a mass, the periotic capsule (Fig. lOO, p), wedged in on either side between the occipital and sphenoidal regions, with which it eventually unites to form a continuous chondrocranium^ perforated by foramina for the passage of nerves and vessels. The posterior part of the basilar portion of the occipital cartilage presents certain peculiarities of development. In calf embi"yos there are in this region, in very early stages, • four separate condensations of mesoderm corresponding to as many mesodermic somites and to the three roots of the hypoglossal nerve together with the first cervical or sub- occipital nerve (Froriep) (Fig. loi). These mesenchy-179 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL. nial masses in their gen- eral characters and rela- tions resemble vertebral bodies, and there are good reasons for believing that they represent four verte- brae which, in later stages, are taken up into the skull region and fuse with the primitive chondrocranium. In the human embryo they are less distinct than in lower mammals, but since a three-rooted liypogjossal and a suboccipital nerve also occur in man^^^js probable^jtliat the corr-e- sponding vertebrae are also represented. Indeed, con- firmation of their existence may be found in the fact that during the cartilagi- nous stage of the skull the hypoglossal foramina are divided into three portions by two cartilaginous parti- tions which separate the three roots of the hypo- glossal nerve. It seems certain from the evidence derived from embryology and comparative anatomy that the hunian skull js composed__oL_a_ .primitive / Fig. ioi.—Frontal Section through THE Occipital and Upper Cervi- cal Regions of a Calf Embryo of 8.7 MM. ai and ai^, Intervertebral arteries ; bc^, first cervical intervertebral plate; bo, suboccipital intervertebral plate ; c^"^ cervical nerves ; ch, notochord ; K, vertebral centrum; w^~', occipi- tal myotomes; w^"", cervical myo- tomes; o'"^ roots of hypoglossal nerve; vj, jugular vein; x and xi, vagus and spinal accessory nerves. — {Froriep.)I So DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL. chondrocranium, (2) membrane bones, and (3) cartilage unsegniental^chgodrocraniiinL phis four_vertebras, the latter being added to and incorporated with the occipital portion of the chondrocranium. Emphasis must be laid upon the fact that the cartilagi- nous portion of the skull forms only the base and lower portions of the sides of the cranium, its entire roof, as well as the face region, showing no indication of cartilage, the mesenchyme in these regions being converted into fibrous connective tissue, which, especially in the cranial region, assumes the form of a dense membrane. But in addition to the chondrocranium and the vertebrae incorporated with it, other cartilaginous elements enter into the composition of the skull. The mesenchyme which occupies the axis of each branchial arch undergoes more or less complete chondrification, cartilaginous bars being so formed, certain of which enter into very close relations with the skull. It has been seen (p. 82) that each half of the first arch gives rise to a maxillary process which grows forward and ventrally to form the anterior boundary of the mouth, while the remaining portion of the arch forms the mandibular process. The whole of the axis of the man- dibular process becomes chondrified, forming a rod known as Meckel's cartilage, and this, at its dorsal end, comes into relation with the periotic capsule, as does also the dorsal end of the cartilage of the second arch. In the remaining three arches cartilage forms only in the ventral portions, so that their rods do not come into relation with the skull, though it will be convenient to consider their further his- tory together with that of the other branchial arch carti- lages. The arrangement of these cartilages is shown dia- grammatically in Fig. 102. By the ossification of these various parts three categories of bones are formed: (i) cartilage bones formed in theOSSIFICATION OF THE CHONDROCRANIUM. l8l bones developing fromJhg^cartilag^s_oli^^ arclies. The bones "belonging to each of these categories are pri- marily quite distinct from one another and from those of the other groups, but in the human skull a very considerable amount of fusion of the primary bones takes place, and ele- ments belonging to two or even to all three categories may unite to form a single bone of the adult skull. In a certain region of the chondrocranium also and in one of the bran- chial arches the original cartilage bone becomes ensheathed by membrane bone and eventually disappears completely, so that the adult bone, although represented by a car- tilage, is really a mem- brane bone. And, in- deed, this process has proceeded so far in certain portions of the branchial arch skeleton that the original cartilag- inous representatives are no longer developed, but the bones are deposited directly in connective tissue. These various modifications interfere greatly with the precise application to the human skull of the classification of bones into the three categories given above, and indeed the true significance of certain of the skull bones can only be perceived by comparative studies. Nevertheless it seems advisable to retain the classification, indicating, where necessary, the confusion of bones of the various categories. The Ossification of the Chondrocranium.—The ossifi- cation of the cartilage of the occipital region results in the formation of four distinct bones which even at birth are Fig. 102.—DiAGUAM showing the Five Branchial Cartilages, / to V. P, Internal pterygoid process of the sphenoid; At, atlas; Ax, epistropheus; 3, third cervical vertebra.1^52 OSSIFICATION OF THE CHONDROCRANIUM. separated from one another by bands of cartilage. The portion of cartilage lying in front of the foramen magnum ossifies to form a basioccipital bone (Fig. 103, bo), the por- tions on either side of this give rise to the two exoccipitals {co), which bear the condyles, and the portion above the foramen produces a supraoccipital {so), which represents ho, Basioccipital; eo, exoccipital; ip, praoccipital, although even interparietal; so, supraoccipital. . . . ... - ri line of union of the two parts is to be seen in two deep in- cisions at the sides of the bone. The union of the exoc- cipitals and supraoccipital takes place in the course of the first or second year after birth, but the basioccipital does not fuse with the rest of the bone until the sixth or eighth year. It will be noticed that no special centers occur for the four occipital vertebrje, these structures having become completely incorporated in the chondrocranium, and even the cartilaginous partitions which divide the hypoglossal foram- ina usually disappear during the process of ossification. Fig. 103.—Occipital Bone of a Fetus at Term. the part of the squamous portion of the adult bone lying below the superior nuchal line. All that por- tion of the bone which lies above that line is com- posed of membrane bone which owes its origin to the fusion of two or some- times four centers of ossi- fication, appearing in the membranous roof of the embryonic skull. The bone so formed {ip) represents the interparietal of lower vertebrates and, at an early stage, unites with the su- at birth an indication of theOSSIFICATION OF THE CHONDROCRANIUM. 183 Two pairs of centers have been described for the inter- parietal bone and it has been claimed that the deep lateral incisions divide the lower pair, so that when the incisions meet and persist as the sutura mendosa, separating the so- called inca bone from the rest of the occipital, the division does not correspond to the line between the supraoccipital and the interparietal, but a portion of the latter bone remains in connection with the supraoccipital. Mall, however, in twenty preparations, found but a single pair of centers for the interparietal. Occasionally an additional pair of small centers appear for the uppermost angle of the interparietal, and the bones Fig. 104.—Sphenoid Bone from Embryo of 3^ to 4 Months. The parts which are still cartilaginous are represented in black, as, Alisphenoid; h, basisphenoid; lingula; os, orbitosphenoid; p, internal pterygoid ^Iztt—{Sappcy.) formed from them may remain distinct as what have been termed fontanelle hones. In the sphenoidal region the number of distinct bones which develop is much greater than in the occipital region. In the first place, at the beginning of the ninth week a center appears in each of the cartilages which represent the alisphe- noids (great wings) (Fig. 104, as), and at about the twelfth week a center appears in each orbitosphenoid (lesser wing) cartilage {os). A little later a pair of centers (bs), placed side by side, are developed in the cartilage representing the posterior portion of the body and together represent what84 OSSIFICATION OF THE CHONDROCRANIUM. is known as the hasisphenoid, and still later a center appears on either side of the basisphenoids to form the lingulce (/), and another pair appears in the anterior part of the carti- lage, between the orbitosphenoids, and represent the pre- sphenoid. In addition to these ten centers, all of which are formed in cartilage, certain other membrane bones are included in the adult sphenoid. Thus, a little before the appearance of the center for the alisphenoids an ossification is formed in the mesenchyme of the lateral wall of the posterior part of the nasal cavity and gives rise to the medial lamina of the pterygoid process, the mesenchyme at the tip of the ossification condensing to form a cartilaginous hook-like structure over which the tendon of the tensor veli palatini plays. This cartilage later ossifies to form the pterygoid hamulus, the medial pterygoid lamina being thus a combi- nation of membrane and cartilage, the latter, however, being a secondary development and quite independent of the chon- drocranium. It is probable also that the upper anterior angle of each alisphenoid is formed by ossification of the mesenchyme in this situation and recent observations seem to show that the lateral lamina of the pterygoid process develops as an ossification of mesenchyme situated laterally to the medial lamina (Fawcett). The lateral' pterygoid laminae early unite with the alisphe- noids, by the sixth month the lingulae have fused with the hasisphenoid and the orbitosphenoids with the presphenoid, and a little later the hasisphenoid and presphenoid unite. The alisphenoids and medial pterygoid laminae remain sepa- rate, however, until after birth, fusing with the remaining portions of the adult bone during the first year. The cartilage of the ethmoidal region of the chondro- cranium forms somewhat later than the other portions and consists at first of a stout median mass projecting down-OSSIFICATION OF THE CHONDROCRANIUM. 185 ward and forward into the nasal process (Fig. 105, //)), and two lateral masses (Im), situated one on either side in the mesenchyme on the outer side of each olfactory pit. Ossification of the lateral masses or ectethmoids begins rela- tively early, but it appears in the upper part of the median cartilage only after birth, producing the crista galli and the perpendicular plate, which together form what is termed the mcsethmoid. When first formed, the three cartilages are quite separate from one another, the olfactory and nasal nerves passing down between them to the olfactory pit, but later bony trabeculae begin to extend across from the meseth- moid to the upper part of the ectethmoids and eventually form a fenestrated horizontal lamella which ossifies to form the cribri- form plate. The lower part of the median cartilage does not ossify, but a ' BRYO center appears on each side of The shaded parts represent the median line in the mesen- chyme behind and below its pos- terior or lower border. From these centers two vertical bony plates develop which unite by their median surfaces below, and above invest the lower border of the cartilage and form the vomer. The portion of the cartilage which is thus in- vested undergoes resorption, but the more anterior portions persist to form the cartilaginous septum of the nose. The vomer, consequently, is not really a portion of the chondro- cranium, but is a membrane bone; its intimate relations with the median ethmoidal cartilage, however, make it conveni- ent to consider it in this place. 17 Fig. 105.—Anterior Portion OF THE Base of the Skull OF A 6 TO 7 Months' En- car- tilage, cp, Cribriform plate; Im, lateral mass of the eth- moid ; Ip, perpendicular plate ; of, optic foramen; os, orbito- sphenoid.—{After von Spec.)186 OSSIFICATION OF THE CIIONDROCRANIUM. When first formed, the ectethmoids are masses of spongy bone and show no indication of the honeycombed appear- ance which they present in the adult skull. This condition is produced by the absorption of the bone of each mass by evaginations into it of the mucous membrane lining the nasal cavity. This same process also brings about the formation of the curved plates of bone which project from the inner surfaces of the lateral masses and are known as the superior and middle conchae (turbinated bones). The inferior and sphenoidal conchse are developed from special centers, but belong to the same category as the others, being formed from portions of the lateral ethmoidal cartilages which be- come almost separated at an early stage before the ossifica- tion has made much progress. Absorption of the body of the sphenoid bone to form the sphenoidal cells, of the frontal to form the frontal sinuses, and of the maxillaries to form the maxillary sinuses is also produced by outgrowths of the nasal mucous membrane, all these cavities, as well as the ethmoidal cells, being continuous with the nasal cavities and lined with an epithelium which is continuous with the mucous membrane of the nose. In the lower mammalia the erosion of the mesial surface of the ectethmoidal cartilages results, as a rule, in the forma- tion of five conchse, while in man but three are usually recog- nized. Not infrequently, however, the human middle concha shows indications, more or less marked, of a division into an upper and a lower portion, which correspond to the third and fourth bones of the typical mammalian arrangement. Further- more, at the upper portion of the nasal wall, in front of the superior concha, a slight elevation, termed the agger nasi, is always observable, its lower edge being prolonged downward to form what is termed the uncinate process of the ethmoid. This process and the agger together represent the uppermost concha of the typical arrangement, to which, therefore, the human arrangement may be reduced. A number of centers of ossification—the exact number is yet uncertain—appear in the periotic capsule during theOSSIFICATION OF THE CHONDROCRANIUM. 18/ later portions of the fifth month, and during the sixth month these unite together to form a single center from which the complete ossification of the cartilage proceeds to form the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone (Fig. io6, p). The mastoid process does not really form until several years after birth, being produced by the hollowing and bulging out of a portion of the petrous bone by out- growths from the lining membrane of the middle ear. The cavities so formed are the mastoid cells, and their relations to the middle-ear cavity are in all respects similar to those of /'^^'^'Tr^''^77T^ the ethmoidal and sphenoidal ' '// / cells to the nasal cavities. The ' V ^ remaining portions of the tem- ^"~^\\v'^/ poral bone are partly formed by membrane bone and partly from the branchial arch skeleton. An ossification appears at the close of the eighth week in the membrane which forms the side ^Vli^Jr^~.yZl of the skull in the temporal Process and Auditory Os- , . . SICLES ARE NOT RePRE- region and gives rise to a sented. squamosal bone (s), which later P' Petrous bone; s, squamosal; • . -iU ^1 \l , r i> tympanic.— (Poirier.) unites with the petrous to form ^ ^ ^ the squamosal portion of the adult temporal, and another membrane bone, the tympanic (t), develops from a center appearing in the mesenchyme surrounding the external auditory meatus, and later also fuses with the petrous to form the floor and sides of the external meatus, giving attachment at its inner edge to the tympanic membrane. Finally, the styloid process is developed from the upper part of the second branchial arch, whose history will be consid- ered later. The various ossifications which form in the chondrocra-OSSIFICATION OF THE CHONDROCRANIUM. nium and the portions of the adult skull which represent them are shown in the following table: R Er.ION OF Chonukocranium. Occipital, Sphenoidal, Ethmoidal, Periotic capsule. Ossification. Basioccipital Exoccipitals Supraoccipital ' Basisphenoid Presphenoid Lingulae Alisphenoids Orbitosphenoids Mesethmoid Ectethmoids Inferior conclia. Sphenoidal concha. Parts of Adult Skull. Basilar process. Condyles. Squamous portion below su- perior nuchal line. Body. Greater wings. Lesser wings. Lamina perpendicularis. Crista galli. Nasal septum. Lateral masses. Superior concha. Middle concha. { Mastoid. Petrous. The Membrane Bones of the Skull.—In the membrane forming the sides and roof of the skull in the second stage of its development ossifications appear, which give rise, in addition to the interparietal and squamosal bones already- mentioned in connection with the occipital and temporal, to the parietals and frontal. Each of the former bones de- velops from a single center which appears at the end of the eighth week, while the frontal is formed at about the same time from two centers situated symmetrically on each side of the median line and eventually fusing completely to form a single bone, although more or less distinct indica- tions of a median suture, the metopic, are not infrequently present. Furthermore, ossifications appear in the mesenchyme of the facial region to form the nasal, lachrymal, and zygomatic bones, all of which arise from single centers of ossification, [n the case of each zygomatic bone, however, three osseous thickenings appear on the inner surface of the original ossi-OSSIFICATION OF BRANCHIAL ARCH SKELETON. 189 fication, which then disappears and the thickenings unite to form the adult bone, though occasionally one or more of their lines of union may persist, prcJducing a bipartite or tripartite zygomatic. The vomer, which has already been described, belongs also strictly to the category of membrane bones, as do also the maxillae and the palatines; these latter, however, pri- marily belonging to the branchial arch skeleton, with which they will be considered. The purely membrane bones in the skull, are, then, the following: Interparietals, Part of squamous portion of occipital. Squamosals, Squamous portions of tem- porals. Tympanies, Tympanic plates of temporals. Parietals. Frontal. Nasals. Lachrymals. , j Zygomatics. Vomer. The Ossification of the Branchial Arch Skeleton.—It has been seen (p. i8o) that a cartilaginous bar develops only in the mandibular process of the first branchial arch. In the maxillary process no cartilaginous skeleton forms, but two membrane bones, the palatine and maxilla, are devel- oped in it, their cartilaginous representatives, which are to be found in lower vertebrates, having been suppressed by a condensation of the development. The palatine bone develops from a single center of ossification, but for each maxilla no less than five centers have been described (Fig. 107). One of these gives rise to so much of the alveolar border of the bone as contains the bicuspid and molar teeth, a second forms the nasal process and the part of the alveo- lar border which contains the canine tooth; a third the por- tion which contains the incisor teeth; while the fourth andigO OSSIFICATION OF BRANCHIAL ARCH SKELETON. fifth centers lie above the first and give rise to the inner and outer portions of the orbital plate and the body of the bone. The first, second, fom-th, and fifth portions early unite to- gether, but the third center, which really lies in the ven- tral part of the nasal process, remains separate for some time, forming what is termed the premaxilla, a bone which remains permanently distinct in the majority of the lower mammals. The above is the generally accepted view as to the develop- ment of the maxilla. Mall, however, maintains that it has but two centers of ossification, one giving rise to the pre- maxilla and the other to the rest of the bone. The max- illary center makes its appear- ance about the middle of the sixth week. Since the condition known as hare-lip results from a fail- ure of the maxillary process to unite completely with the frontonasal process (see p. 89), and since the premax- illa develops in the latter and the maxilla in the former, the cleft may pass between these two bones and prevent their union (see also p. 301). The upper end of Meckel's cartilage passes between the tympanic bone and the outer surface of the periotic cap- sule and thus comes to lie apparently within the tympanic cavity of the ear; this portion of the cartilage divides into two parts which ossify to form two of the bones of the mid- dle ear, the malleus and incus, a description of whose further development may be postponed until a later chap- ter. At about the middle of the sixth week of development a plate of membrane bone appears to the outer side of the lower portion of the cartilage and gradually extends to form the greater portion of the body of the mandible, the ramuss Fig. 107.—Diagram of the Os- sifications OF which the Max- illa is Composed, as seen from THE Outer Surface. The Arrow Passes through the Infraorbital Canal.—{From von Spee, after Sappey.)OSSIFICATION OF BRANCHIAL ARCH SKELETON. IQI and the coronoid process. In the region of the body the bone develops so as to enclose the cartilage, together with the inferior alveolar (dental) nerve which lies to the outer side of the cartilage, but in the region of the ramus the bone remains entirely to the outer side of the cartilage and nerve, whence the position of the mandibular foramen on the inner surface of the adult bone. The portion of Meck- el's cartilage extending from the symphysis to the level of the mental foramen ossifies to form the mental portion of the mandible, but throughout the rest of the body of the bone it disappears, while the portion above the mandibular foramen is said to become transformed into fibrous connec- tive tissue and to persist as the spheno-mandibular ligament. At the upper extremity of the bony ramus two nodules of cartilage develop, quite independently, however, of Meck- el's cartilage, and these ossify to form the condyloid and coronoid processes, so that each half of the mandible is formed of membrane bone, with cartilage bone at each extremity. The upper part of the cartilage of the second branchial arch also comes into relation with the tympanic cavity and ossifies to form the styloid process of the temporal bone. The succeeding moiety of the cartilage undergoes degeneration to form the stylo-hyoid ligament, while its most ventral portion ossifies as the lesser cornu of the hyoid hone. The great variability which may be observed in the length of the styloid processes and of the lesser cornua of the hyoid depends upon the extent to which the ossification of the original cartilage proceeds, the length of the stylo-hyoid ligaments being in inverse ratio to the length of the processes or cornua. The greater cornua of the hyoid are formed by the ossification of the cartilages of the third arch, and the body of the bone is formed from a cartilaginous plate, the copula, which unites the ventral ends of the two arches concerned.192 OSSIFICATION OF BRANCHIAL ARCH SKELETON. Finally, the cartilages of the fourth and fifth branchial arches early fuse together to form a plate of cartilage, and the two plates of opposite sides unite by their ventral edges to form the thyreoid cartilage of the larynx. Fig. io8.—Diagram showing the Categories to which the Bones OF the Skull Belong. The unshaded bones are membrane bones, the heavily shaded repre- sent the chondrocranium, while the black represents the branchial arch elements. AS, Alisphenoid; ExO, exoccipital; F, frontal; Hy, hyoid; IP, interparietal; Z, zygomatic; Mn, mandible; Mx, maxilla; NA, nasal; P, parietal; Pe, periotic; SO, snpraoccipital; Sq, squamosal; St, styloid process; Th, thyreoid cartilage; Ty, tympanic. The accompanying diagram (Fig. io8) shows the vari- ous structures derived from the branchial arch skeleton, asDEVELOPMENT OF APPENDICULAR SKELETON. 193 well as some of the other elements of the skull, and a resume of the fate of the branchial arches may be stated in tabular form as follows, the parts represented by cartilage which becomes replaced by membrane bone being- printed in italics, while membrane bones which have no cartilaginous representatives are enclosed in brackets: Tst arch, 2(1 arch, (Maxilla). (Palatine). Malleus. Incus. Spheno-mandibular ligament. Mandible. Styloid process of the temporal. Stylo-hyoid ligament. Lesser cornu of hyoid. 3d arch, Greater cornu of hyoid. 4th and 5th arches, Thyreoid cartilage of larynx. The Development of the Appendicular Skeleton.— While the greater portion of the axial skeleton is formed from the sclerotomes of the mesodermic somites, the ap- pendicular skeleton is derivecL.from the somatic mesen- chyme, which is not divided intn metnmeres. This mes^n^ chyme forms the core of th.e.iimb.-bud-and iDeconies con- verted into cartilage,_by the ossification of which all the bones of the limbs, wnth the possible exception of the clavi- cle, are formed. Of the bones of. the pectoral girdle the clavicle requires further study before it can be certain whether it is to be regarded as a purely cartilage bone or as a combination of cartilage and membrane ossifications (Gegenbaur). It is the first bone of the skeleton to ossify, tjyo centers api:>€ar- ing for each l)one at about the^sixth week of development. The ti ssue in which the ossifications form has certaui pecu- liar characters, and it is difficult to say whether it is to be 18194 DEVELOPMENT OF APPENDICULAR SKELETON. regarded as cartilage which, on account of the early differ- entiation of the center, has not yet become thoroughly differentiated histologically, or as some other form of con- nective tissue. However that may be, true cartilage devel- 0£s_or^ither side of the ossifying region, and iiitglhTT^ ossification gradually extends, so that at least a portion of the bone is preformed in cartilage^ ' ^ The scapula is at first a smgle plate of cartilage in which two centers of ossification appear One of these gives rise to the body and the spine, while the other Fig. Cen- 109.—The Ossification TERS OF THE ScAPULA. a, h, and c, Secondary centers for the angle, vertebral border, and acromion; co, center for the cora- coid process.—(Testut.) ])n)(luccs tlie coracoid proc- ess (Fig. 109, co), the rudimentary representative of the coracoid bone which extends between the scap- ula and sternum in the lower vertebrates. The coracoid_ does not unite with the body until about the fifteenth year, and sec- ondary centers which give_ rise to the vertebral edge (b) and inferior angle of the bone_(a) and to the acromion process (c) unite with the rest of the bone at about the twentieth year. rhe hnincnis and the bones of the forearm are typical long bones, each of which develops from a primary center, whi^h gives rise to the shaft, and has, in addition, two or more epiphysial centers. In the humerus an epiphysial center appears for the head, another for the greater tuber- osity, and usually a third for the lesser tuberosity, while at the distal end there is a center for each condyle, one forDEVELOPMENT OF APPENDICULAR SKELETON. 195 the trochlea and one for the capitulum, the fusion of these various epiphyses with the shaft taking place between the seventeenth and twentieth years. The radius and ulna each possess a single epiphysial center for each extremity in addi- tion to the primary center for the shaft, and the ulna pos- sesses also an epiphysial center for the olecranon process. The embryological development of the carpus is some- what complicated. A cartilage is found representing each of the bones normally occurring in the adult (Fig-«iio), and these are arranged in two distinct rows: a proximal one consisting of three elements, named from their relation to the bones of the fore- arm, radiale, interme- dium, and ulnare; and a distal one composed of four elements, termed carpalia. In addition, a cartilage, termed the pisiform, is found on the Fig ulnar side of the proxi- mal row and is generally regarded as a sesamoid cartilage developed in the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and furthermore a number of inconstant cartilages have been observed whose signifi- cance in the majority of cases is more or less obscure. These accessory cartilages either disappear in later stages of development or fuse with neighboring cartilages, or, in rare cases, ossify and form distinct elements of the carpus. One of them, however, occurs so frequently as almost to deserve classification as a constant element; it is known as 11 O.- Em- Reconstruction OF AN BRYoNic Carpus. c, Centrale; cu, triquetral; lu, lunate; m, capitate; p, pisiform; sc, navicular; t, greater multangular; tr, lesser mul- tangular; XI, hamate.DEVELOPMENT OF APPENDICULAR SKELETON. 196 the ccntralc (Fig. no, c) and occupies a position between the cartilages of the proximal and distal rows and appa- rently corresponds to a cartilage typically present in lower forms and ossifying to form a distinct bone. In the human carpus its fate varies, as it may either disappear or unite with other cartilages, that with which it most usually fuses being probably the radiale. There is evidence also to show that another of the accessory cartilages unites with the ulnar element of the distal row, representing the carpale v typically present in lower forms. Each of the elements corresponding to an adult bone ossifies from a single center with the exception of carpale iV^ which has two centers, a further indication of its composite character. The relation of the cartilages to the adult bones may be seen from the table given on page 198. With regard to the metacarpals and phalanges, it need merely be stated that each develops from a single primary center for the shaft and one secondary epiphysial center. The primary center appears at about the middle of the shaft except in the terminal phalanges, in which it appears at the distal end of the cartilage. The epiphyses for the meta- carpals are at the distal ends of the bones, except in the case of the metacarpal of the thumb, which resembles the phalanges in having its epiphysis at the proximal end. Each innominate bone appears as a somewhat oval plate of cartilage whose long axis is directed almost at right angles to the vertebral column and which is in close rela- tion with the fourth and fifth sacral vertebras. As devel- opment proceeds a rotation of the cartilage, accompanied by a slight shifting of position, occurs, so that eventually the plate has its long axis almost parallel with the vertebral column and is in relation with the first three sacrals. Ossi- fication appears at three points in each cartilage, one in the upper part to form the ilinm (Fig. in, il) and two in theDEVELOPMENT OF APPENDICULAR SKELETON. 197 lower part, the anterior of these giving rise to the pubis (p), while the posterior produces the ischium (is). At birth these three bones are still separated from one another by a Y-shaped piece of cartilage whose three limbs meet at the bottom of the acetabulum, but later a secondary center appears in this cartilage and unites the three bones together. The central part of the lower half of each original cartilage plate does not undergo complete chondri- lication, but remains mem- branous, constituting the obturator membrane which closes the obturator fora- men. In addition to the Y- shaped secondary center, other epiphysial centers appear in the prominent portions of the cartilage, such as the pubic crest (Fig. Ill, c), the ischial tuberosity ((/), the anterior inferior spine (b) and the crest of the ilium (a), and Fig. III.—The Ossification Centers OF THE Os InNOMINATUM. a, b, c, and d, Secondary centers for the crest, anterior inferior spine, symphysis, and ischial tuberosity; il, ilium; is, ischium; p, pubis.— (Tcsttit.) unite with the rest of the bone at about the twentieth year. The femur, tibia, and iibula each develop from a single primary center for the shaft and an upper and a lower epiphysial center, the femur possessing, in addition, epi- physial centers for the greater and lesser trochanters (Fig. 91). The patella does not belong to the same category as the other bones, but resembles the pisiform bone of the carpus in being a sesamoid bone, developed in the tendonDEVELOrMKNT OF APPENDICULAR SKELETON. 198 of the quadriceps extensor cruris. Its cartilage does not appear until the fourth month of intrauterine life, when most of the primary centers for other bones have already appeared, and its ossification does not begin until the third year after birth. The tarsus, like the carpus, consists of a proximal row of three cartilages, termed the tihialc, the intermedium, and the Hhulare, and of a distal row of four tarsalia. Between these two rows a single cartilage, the centrale, is interposed. Each of these cartilages ossifies from a single center, that of the intermedium early fusing with the tibiale, though it occasionally remains distinct as the os trigonum, and from a comparison with lower forms it seems probable that the fibular cartilage of the distal row really represents two separate elements, there being, properly speaking, five tar- salia instead of four. The fibulare, in addition to its pri- mary center, possesses also an epiphysial center, which develops at the point of insertion of the tendo Achillis. A comparison of the carpal and tarsal cartilages and their relations to the adult bones may be seen from the fol- lowing table: Carpus. Tarsus. Cartilages. Bones Bones Cartilages. Radiale Intermedium LMnare Sesamoid cartilage Centrale Navicular Lunate Triquetral Pisiform Fuses with navicu- lar Gr. multangular Less, multangular Capitate Hamate Talus Calcaneus Navicular f Tibiale \ Intermedium Fibulare Centrale Carpale T Carpale II Carpale III Carpale IV "1 Carpale V | 1st Cuneiform 2d Cuneiform 3d Cuneiform Cuboid Tarsal e I Tarsale II Tarsal e 111 f Tarsale IV \ Tarsale V The development of the metatarsals and phalanges is exactly similar to that of the corresponding bones of the hand (see p. 196).199 DEVELOPMENT OF THE JOINTS. The Development of the Joints.—The mesenchyme which primarily represents each vertebra, or the skull, or the skeleton of a limb, is at first a continuous mass, and when it becomes converted into cartilage this also may be continuous, as in the skull, or may appear as a number of distinct parts united by unmodified portions of the mesen- chyme. In the former case the various ossifications as they extend will come into contact with their neighbors and will either fuse with them or will articulate with them directly, forming a suture. When, however, a portion of unmodified mesenchyme intervenes between two cartilages, the mode of articulation of the bones formed from these cartilages will vary. The intermediate mesenchyme may in time undergo chondrifi- cation and unite the bones in an almost immovable articu- lation known as a synchondrosis {e. g., the sacroiliac articu- lation) ; or a cavity may appear in the center of the inter- vening cartilage so that a slight amount of movement of the two bones is possible, forming an amphiarthrosis (e. g., the symphysis pubis) ; or, finally, the intermediate mesen- chyme may not chondrify, but its peripheral portions may become converted into a dense sheath of connective tissue (Fig. 112, c) which surrounds the adjacent ends of the two bones like a sleeve, forming the articular capsule, while the central portions degenerate to form a cavity. The bones which enter into such an articulation are more or less freely movable upon one another and the joint is termed a diar- throsts {e. g., the knee- or shoulder-joint). In a diarthrosis the connective-tissue cells near the inner surface of the capsule arrange themselves in a layer to form a synovial membrane for the joint, and portions of the cap- sule may thicken to form special bands, the reinforcing ligaments, while other strong fibrous bands, which may pass from one bone to the other, forming accessoi-y ligaments,DEVELOPMENT OF THE JOINTS. 200 are shown by comparative studies to be in many cases de- generated portions of what were originally muscles. In certain diarthroses, such as the temporo-mandibular and sterno-clavicular, the whole of the central portions of the intermediate mesenchyme does not degenerate, but it is converted into a filDro-cartilage, between each surface of which and the adjacent bone there is a cavity. These inter- FiG. 112.—Longitudinal Section through the Joint of the Great Toe in an Embryo of 4.5 cm. c, Articular capsule; i, intermediate mesenchyme which has almost disappeared in the center; and p', cartilages of the first and second phalanges.— (Nicholas.) articular cartilages seem, in the sterno-clavicular joints, to represent the sternal ends of a bone existing in lower verte- brates and known as the precoracoid, but it seems doubtful if those of the temporo-mandibular joints have a similar significance, the most recent observations on their develop- ment tending to associate them with the external pterygoid muscles (Kjellberg). LITERATURE. C. R. Bardeen: "The Development of the Thoracic Vertebrie in Man." Amer. Journ. Anat., iv, 1905. C. R. Bardeen :Studies of the Development of the Human Skeleton,'" Amer. Journ. Anat., iv, 1905-20I LITERATURE. A. Bernays: "Die Entwicklungsgeschichte des Kniegelenks des Men- schen mit Bemerkungen iiber die Gelenke im Allfremeinen," Mur- plwlog. Jahrbuch, iv, 1878. E. Dursy: "Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte des Kopfes des Menschen und der hoheren Wirbelthiere," Tiibingen, 1869. E. Fawcett : " On the early Stages in the Ossification of the Pterygoid Plates of the Sphenoid Bone of Man," Anat. Anzciger, xxvi, 1905. E. Eawcett: "Ossification of the lower Jaw in Man," Journ. Arncr. Med. Assoc., XLV, 1905. E. Fawcett: "On the development, ossification and growth of the Palate bone," Journ. Anat. and Phys., xl, 1906. A. Froriep: "Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Wirbelsaulc, insbeson- dere des Atlas und Epistropheus und der Occipitalregion," Archiv fur Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1886. E. Gaupp: "Alte Probleme und neuere Arbeiten iiber den Wirbeltier- schiidel," Ergeb. der Anat. und Entwicklungsgesch., x, 1901. C. Gegenbaur : " Ein Fall von erblichem Mangel der Pars acromialis ClavicuL-e, mit Bemerkungen iiber die Entwicklung der Clavicula," Jenaische Zeitschr. fitr mcdie. Wissensch., i, 1864. E. Grafenberg : " Die Entwicklung der Knochen, Muskcln und Ncrvcn der Hand und der fur die Bewegungen der Hand bestimniten Muskeln des Unterarms," Anat. Hefte, xxx, 1906. Henke and Reyher : " Studien iiber die Entwickelung der Extremi- taten des Menschen, insbesondere der Gelenkflachen," Sitzungs- bcrichte der kais. Akad. Wien, lxx, 1875. M. Jakoby : " Beitrag zur Kenntnis des menschlichen Primordial- craniums," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., XLiv, 1894. K. Kjellberg : " Beitriige zur Entwicklungsgeschichte des Kicfer- gelcnks," Morph. Jahrbuch, xxxii, 1904. H. Leboucq : " Recherches sur la morphologic du carpe chez les mani- miferes," Archives de Biolog., v, 1884. G. Levi : " Beitrag zum Studium der Entwickelung des knorpeligen Primordialcraniums des Menschen," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., LV, 1900. A. Low : " The Development of the Lower Jaw in Man," Proc. Anat. and Anthrop. Soc. Univ. of Aberdeen, 1906. V. P. Mall: "The Development of the Connective Tissues from the Connective-tissue Syncytium," Anier. Jour. Anat., i, 1902. ]"'. P. Mall : " On Ossification Centers in Human Embryos Less Than One Hundred Days Old," Amer. Journ. Anat., v, 1906. J. Markowski : " Sollte der Verknocherungsprozess des Brustbeins von kcincr morphologischen Bedeutung sein ?" Anat. Ansciger, XXVI, 1905.LITERATURE. 202 W. VAN NooROEN: " Bcitrag zur Anatomic dcr knorpeligen Schadel- basis menschlichcr Embryonen," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1887. A. M. Paterson : " The Human Sternum," Liverpool, 1904. K. Peter : " Anlage und Homologie der Muscheln des Menschcn und der Saugetiere," Arch, fur mikrosk. Anat., lx, 1902. Rambaut et Renault : " Origine et developpement des Os," Paris, 1864. E. RosENBEa<G: " Ueber die Entwickelung der Wirbelsaule und das Centrale carpi des Menschcn," Morpholog. Jahrbuch, i, 1876. G. RuGE: " Untersuchungen iiber die Entwickelungsvorgange am Brust- bein des Menschen," Morpholog. Jahrbuch, vi, 1880. G. Thilenius : " Untersuchungen iiber die morphologische Bedeutung accessorischer Elemente am menschHchen Carpus (und Tarsus)," Morpholog. Arbeitcn, v, 1896. K. ToLDT Jr. : " Entwicklung und Struktur des menschlichcn Joch- beines," Sitzungsber. k. Acad. Wissensch. Wien, Math.-naturzuiss Kl, CXI, 1902. A. Weiss : " Die Entwickhmg der Wirbelsaule der weissen Ratte, besonders der vordersten Halswirbel," Zcit. f. wissensch. Zool., Lxix, 1901. P. A. Zachariades : " Recherches sur le developpement du tissu con- jonctif," Comptcs Rendus de la Sac. de Biolog., Paris, Ser. 10, V, 1898.203 CHAPTER VIIL THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. Two forms of muscular tissue exist in the human body, the striated tissue, which forms the skeletal muscles and is under the control of the central nervous system, and the non-striated, which is controlled by the sympathetic ner- vous system and is found in the skin, in the walls of the digestive tract, the blood-vessels and lymphatics, and in connection with the genito-urinary apparatus. In the walls of the heart a muscle tissue occurs which is frequently re- garded as a third form, characterized by being under con- trol of the sympathetic system and yet being striated; it is, however, in its origin, much more nearly allied to the non-striated than to the striated form of tissue, and will be considered a variety of the former. The Histogenesis of Non-striated Muscular Tissue.— Non-striated muscular tissue is formed by the direct con- version of mesenchyme cells into muscle-fibers, the exact details of the conversion being as yet unknown. The fibers are sometimes more or less scattered in the general connective tissue or may be grouped into small bundles or into layers. They are formed from the mesenchyme of the somatic and splanchnic layers of the mesoderm, but appa- rently never from the mesodermic somites. The cells from which the heart musculature develops are at first of the usual well defined embryonic type, but, as development proceeds, they become irregularly stellate in form, the processes of neighboring cells fuse and, even-204 DEVELOPMENT OF MUSCULAR SYSTEM. liially, there is formed a continuous mass of protoplasm or syncytium in which all traces of cell boundaries are lacking (Fig. 113). While the individual cells, or myoblasts as they are termed, are still recognizable, gran- ules appear in their cyto- plasm, and these arrange themselves in rows and unite to form slender fibrils, which at first do not extend beyond the limits of the myo- blasts in which they have appeared, but later, as the fusion of the cells proceeds, are con- tinued from one cell territory into the other through considerable Fig. 113.—Section THROUGH THE Heart- stretches of the syncy- WALL OF A Duck Embryo of Three . -.i ^ a . Days.—(M. Hcidenhain.) tium, without regard to the original cell areas. The fibrils multiply, apparently by longitudinal division, and arrange themselves in circles around areas of the syn- cytium (compare Fig. 114). As the multiplication of the fibrils continues those newly formed arrange themselves around the interior of each of the original circles and grad- ually occupy the entire cytoplasm, or sarcoplasm as it may now be termed, except immediately around the nuclei where, even in the adult, a certain amount of undifferen- tiated sarcoplasm persists. Tlie fibrils when first formed are apparently homogeneous, but later they become differ- entiated into two distinct substances which alternate withHISTOGENESIS OF STRIATED MUSCLE TISSUE. 205 one another throughout the length of the fibril and produce the characteristic transverse striation of the tissue. Finally stronger interrupted transverse bands of so-called cement substance appear, dividing the tissue into areas which have usually been regarded as representing the original myo- blasts, but are really devoid of significance as cells, the, tissue^ remaining, strictly speaj<:ing^,.J,_syncytiu^l. The Histogenesis of Striated Muscle Tissue.—The histogenesis of striated or voluntary muscle tissue resembles Fig. 114.—Cross-section of a Muscle from the Thigh of a Pig Embryo 75 mm. Long. A, Central nucleus; B, new peripheral nuc\tus.— (Macallutn.) very closely that which has just been described for the heart muscle. There is a similar formation of a syncytium by the fusion of the cells of the myotomes, an appearance of granules which unite to form fibrils, an increase of the fibrils by longitudinal division and a, primary arrangement of the fibrils around the periphery of areas of sarcoplasm (Fig. 114), each of which represents a muscle fibre. In \ addition there is an active proliferation of the nuclei of the original myoblasts, the new nuclei arranging themselves2o6 DEVELOPMENT OF SKELETAL MUSCLES. more or less regularly in rows and later jrnigrating from y- their ojginal centrajjposition to the perijjher^fjjie^lw^^ and, in the limb muscles, the development is further compli- cated by a process of degeneration which affects groups of muscle fibers, so that bundles of normal fibers are separated by strands of degenerated tissue in which the fibrils have disappeared, the nuclei have become pale and the sarcoplasm vacuolated and homogeneous. Later the degenerated tissue seems to disappear entirely and mesenchymatous connective tissue grows in between the persisting fibers, grouping them into bundles and the bundles into the individual muscles. So long as the formation of new fibrils continues, the increase in the thickness of a muscle is probably due to a certain extent to an increase in the actual number of fibers, which results from the division of those already exist- ing. Subsequently, however, this mode of growth ceases, the further increase of the muscle depending upon an in- crease in size of its constituent elements (Macallum). The Development of the Skeletal Muscles.—It has already been pointed out that all the skeletal muscles of the body, with the exception of those connected with the bran- chial arches, are derived from the myotomes of the meso- dermic somites, even the limb muscles possibly having such an origin, although the cells of the tissue from which the muscles of the limb buds form lack an epithelial arrange- ment and are indistinguishable from the somatic mesen- chyme which forms the axial cores of the limbs. The various fibers of each myotome are at first loosely arranged, but later they become more compact and are arranged parallel with one another, their long axes being directed antero-posteriorly. This stage is also transitory, / however, the fibers of each myotome undergoing various modifications to produce the conditions existing in the adult, in which the original segmental arrangement of the fibersDEVELOPMENT OF SKELETAL MUSCLES. 207 can be perceived in comparatively few muscles. The exact nature of these modifications is almost unknown from direct observation, but since the relation between a nerve and the myotome belonging- to the same segment is established at a very early period of development and persists throughout life, no matter what changes of fusion, splitting, or migra- tion the myotome may undergo, it is possible to trace out more or less completely the history of the various myotomes by determining their segmental innervation. It is known, for example, that the latissimus dorsi arises from the seventh and eighth* cervical myotomes, but later undergoes a migra- tion, becoming attached to the lower thoracic and lumbar vertebrae and to the crest of the ilium, far away from its place of origin (Mall), and yet it retains its nerve-supply from the seventh and eighth cervical nerves with which it was originally associated, its nerve-supply consequently in- dicating the extent of its*migration. By following the indications thus afforded, it may be seen that the changes which occur in the myotomes may be re- ferred to one or more of the following processes : 1. A longitudinal splitting into two or more portions, a process well illustrated by the trapezius and sternomastoid, which have differentiated by the longitudinal splitting of a single sheet and contain therefore portions of the same myo- tomes. The sterno-hyoid and omohyoid have also differ- entiated by the same process, and, indeed, it is of frequent occurrence. 2. A tangential splitting into two or more layers. Ex- amples of this are also abundant and are afforded by the muscles of the fourth, fifth, and sixth layers of the back, as recognized in English text-books of anatomy, by the two *TIii.s enumeration is based on convenience in associating the myo- tomes with the nerves which supply them. The myotomes mentioned are those which correspond to the sixth and seventh cervical vertebra208 DEVELOPMENT OF SKELETAL MUSCLES. oblique and the transverse layers of the abdominal walls, and by the intercostal muscles and the transversus of the thorax. 3. A fusion of portions of successive myotomes to form a single muscle, again a process of frequent occurrence, and well illustrated by the rectus abdominis (which is formed by the fusion of the ventral portions of the last six or seven thoracic myotomes) or by the superficial portions of the erector spinas. 4. A migration of parts of one or more myotomes over others. An example of this process is to be found in the latissimus dorsi, whose history has already been referred to, and it is also beautifully shown by the serratus anterior and the trapezius, both of which have extended far beyond the limits of the segments from which they are derived. 5. A degeneration of portions or the whole of a myotome. This process has played a very considerable part in the evo- lution of the muscular system in'^the vertebrates. When a muscle normally degenerates, it becomes converted into con- nective tissue, and many of the strong aponeurotic sheets which occur in the body owe their origin to this process. Thus, for example, the aponeurosis connecting the occipital and frontal portions of the occipito-frontalis is due to this process and is muscular in such forms as the lower monkeys, and a good example is also to be found in the aponeurosis which occupies the interval between the superior and inferior serrati postici, these two muscles being continuous in lower forms. The strong lumbar aponeurosis and the aponeu- roses of the oblique and transverse muscles of the abdomen are also good examples. Indeed, in comparing one of the mammals with a mem- ber of one of the lower classes of vertebrates, the greater amount of connective tissue compared with the amount of muscular tissue in the former is very striking, the inference being that these connective-tissue structures (fascine, apo-DEVELOPMENT OF SKELETAL MUSCLES. 19 neuroses, ligaments) represent portions of the muscular tissue of the lower form (Bardeleben). Many of the acces- sory ligaments occurring in connection with diarthrodial joints apparently owe their origin to a degeneration of muscle tissue, the fibular lateral ligament of the knee-joint, for instance, being probably a degenerated portion of the peroneus longus, while the sacro-tuberous ligament ap- pears to stand in a similar relation to the long head of the biceps femoris (Sutton). 6. Finally, there may be associated with any of the first four processes a change in the direction of the muscle-fibers. The original antero-posterior direction of the fibers is re- tained in comparatively few of the adult muscles and excel- lent examples of the process here referred to are to be found in the intercostal muscles and the muscles of the abdominal walls. In the musculature associated with the branchial arches the alteration in the direction of the fibers occurs even in the fishes, in which the original direction of the muscle-fibers is very perfectly retained in other myotomes, the branchial muscles, however, being arranged parallel with the branchial cartilages or even passing dorso-ventrally be- tween the upper and lower portions of an arch, and so form- ing what may be regarded as a constrictor of the arch. This alteration of direction dates back so far that the con- strictor, arrangement may well be taken as the primary con- dition in studying the changes which the branchial muscu- lature has undergone in the mammalia. It would occupy too much space in a work of this kind to consider in detail the history of each one of the skeletal muscles of the human body, but a statement of the general plan of their development will not be out of place. For convenience the entire system may l)e divided into three portions—the cranial, trunk and limb musculature; and of these, the trunk musculature may first be considered.210 THE TRUNK MUSCULATURE. The Trunk Musculature.—It has aheady been seen (p. io8) that the myotomes at first occupy a dorsal position, becoming prolonged ventrally as development proceeds so as to overlap the somatic mesoderm, until those of opposite sides come into contact in the mid-ventral line. Before this is accomplished, however, a longitudinal splitting of each myotome occurs, whereby there is separated off a dorsal portion which gives rise to a segment of the dorsal muscu- lature of the trunk and is supplied by the ramus dorsalis of its corresponding spinal nerve. In the lower vertebrates this separation of each of the trunk myotomes into a dorsal and ventral portion is much more distinct in the adult than it is in man, the two portions being separated by a horizontal plate of connective tissue extending the entire length of the trunk and being attached by its inner edge to the transverse processes of the vertebrae, while peripherally it becomes con- tinuous with the connective tissue of the dermis along a line known as the lateral line. In man the dorsal portion is also much smaller in proportion to the ventral portion than in the lower vertebrates. From this dorsal portion of the myotomes are derived the muscles belonging to the three deepest layers of the dorsal musculature, the more .super- ficial layers being composed of muscles belonging to the limb system. Further longitudinal and tangential divisions and a fusion of successive myotomes bring about the condi- tions which obtain in the adult dorsal musculature. While the myotomes are still some distance from the mid- ventral line another longitudinal division affects their ventral edges (Fig. T15), portions being thus separated which later fuse more or less perfectly to form longitudinal bands of muscle, those of opposite sides being brought into apposition along the mid-ventral line by the continued growth ventrally of the myotomes. In this way are formed the rectus and pyramidalis muscles of the abdomen and the depressors ofTHE TRUNK MUSCULATURE. 21 I the hyoid bone, the genio-hyoid and geriio-glossus* in the neck region. In the thoracic region this rectus set of mus- cles, as it may be termed, is not represented except as an anomaly, its absence being probably correlated with the development of the sternum in this region. The lateral portions of the myotomes which intervene Fig. 115.—Embryo of 13 mm. showing the Formation of t?ie Rectus Muscle.—(Mall.) between the dorsal and rectus muscles divide tangentially, producing from their dorsal portions in the cervical and lumbar regions muscles, such as the longus capitis and colli * This muscle is supplied by the hypoglossal nerve, but for the present purpose it is convenient to regard this as a spinal nerve, as indeed it primarily is.THE TRUNK MUSCULATURE. 212 and the psoas, which He beneath the vertebral column and hence have been termed hyposkeletal muscles (Huxley). More ventrally three sheets of muscles, lying one above the other, are formed, the fibers of each sheet being arranged in a definite direction differing from that found in the other sheets. In the abdomen there are thus fonned the two oblique and the transverse muscles, in the thorax the inter- costals and the trans versus thoracis, while in the neck these portions of some of the myotomes disappear, those of the remainder giving rise to the scaleni muscles, portions of the trapezius and sternomastoid (Bolk), and possibly the hyo- glossus and styloglossus. In the abdominal region, and to a considerable extent in the neck also, the various portions of myotomes fuse together, but in the thorax they retain in the intercostals their original distinctness, being separated by the ribs. The table on page 213 will show the relation of the various trunk muscles to the portions of the myotomes. The intimate association between the pelvic girdle and the axial skeleton brings about extensive modifications of the posterior trunk myotomes. So far as their dorsal por- tions are concerned probably all these myotomes as far back as the fifth sacral are represented in the sacro-spinalis, but the ventral portions from the first lumbar myotome on- wards are greatly modified. The last myotome taking part in the formation of the rectus abdominis is the twelfth thoracic and the last to be represented in the lateral muscu- lature of the abdomen is the first lumbar, the ventral por- tions of the remaining lumbar and of the first and second sacral myotomes either having disappeared or being devoted to the formation of the musculature of the lower limb. The ventral portions of the third and fourth sacral myo- tomes are represented, however, by the levator ani and coccy- geus, and are the last myotomes which persist as musclesTHE TRUNK MUSCULATURE. 213 ^ o m X! 3 tn O 'So _o "S u O c CI] cs o o o a, St u Ul w 3 3 § biO IM 2 ceo o o <u 0] CI, t; n OS — C "o rt pJ (u w H m rs 'o X) O t3 -a 1- o .x ■ >> o 1 C/3 C O! H O cj 1-1 cS 0=; c >THE TRUNK MUSCULATURE. 214 in the human body, although traces of still more posterior myotomes are to be found in muscles such as the curvator coccygis sometimes developed in connection with the coccy- geal vertebrae. The perineal muscles and the external sphincter ani are also developments of the third and fourth (and second) sacral myotomes. At a time when the cloaca (see p. 297) is still present, a sheet of muscles lying close beneath the integument forms a sphincter around its opening (Fig. ti6). sr P A B Fig. 116.—Perineal Region of Embryos of {A') Two Months and (5) Four to Five Months^ showing the Development of the Perineal Muscles. dc, Nervus dorsalis clitoridis; p, pudendal nerve; sa, sphincter ani; sc, sphincter cloacae; sv, sphincter vaginjE.— {Popozvsky.) On the development of the partition which divides the cloaca into rectal and urinogenital portions, the sphincter is also divided, its more posterior portion persisting as the external sphincter ani, while the anterior part gradually differentiates into the various perineal muscles (Popowsky). The Cranial Musculature.—As was pointed out in an earlier chapter, the existence of distinct mesodermic somites has not yet been completely demonstrated in the head of the human emhryo,but in lower forms, such as the elasmohranch fishes, they are clearly distinguishable, and it may be sup-215 THE CRANIAL MUSCULATURE. posed that their indistinctness in man is a secondary con- dition. Exactly how many of these somites are represented in the mammahan head it is impossible to say, but it seems probable, from comparison with lower forms, that there is a considerable number. The majority of them, however, early undergo degeneration, and in the adult condition only three are recognizable, two of which are praeoral in position and one postoral. The myotomes of the anterior praeoral segment give rise to the muscles of the eye supplied by the third cranial nerve, those of the posterior one furnish the superior oblique muscles innervated by the fourth nerve, while from the postoral myotomes the lateral recti, supplied by the sixth nerve, are developed. The muscles supplied by the hypoglossal nerve are also derived from myotomes, but they have already been considered in connection with the trunk musculature. The remaining muscles of the head differ from all other voluntary muscles of the body in the fact that they are derived from the branchiomeres formed by the segmentation of the cephalic ventral mesoderm. These muscles, there- fore, are not to be regarded as equivalent to the myotomic muscles if their embryological origin is to be taken as a criterion of equivalency, and in their case it would seem, from the fact that they are innervated by nerves funda- mentally distinct from those which supply the myotomic mucles, that this criterion is a good one. They must be regarded, therefore, as belonging to a special category, and may be termed hranchiomeric muscles to distinguish them from the myotomic set. If their embryological origin be taken as a basis for homology It IS clear that they should be regarded as equivalent to the muscles derived from the ventral mesoderm of the trunk, and these, as has been seen, are the non-striated muscles associated with the viscera, among which may be included the striated heart muscle. At first sight this homology seems decidedly2l6 THE CRANIAL MUSCULATURE. strained, chiefly because long-continued custom has regarded the histological and physiological peculiarities of striated and non-striated muscle tissue as fundamental. It may be pointed out, however, that the branchiomeric muscles are, strictly speak- ing, visceral muscles, and indeed give rise to muscle sheets (the constrictors of the pharynx) which surround the upper or pharyngeal portion of the digestive tract. It is possible, then, that the homology is not so strained as might appear, but further discussion of it may profitably be deferred until the cranial nerves are under consideration. The skeleton of the first branchial arch becomes converted partly into the jaw apparatus and partly into auditory ossicles, and the muscles derived from the corresponding branchiomere become the muscles of mastication (the tem- poral, masseter, and pterygoids), the mylohyoid, anterior lielly of the digastric, the tensor veli palatini and the tensor tympani. The nerve which corresponds to the first bran- chial arch is the trigeminus or fifth, and consequently these various muscles are supplied by it. The second arch has corresponding to it the seventh nerve, and its musculature is partly represented by the stylo- hyoid and posterior belly of the digastric and by the stape- dius muscle of the middle ear. From the more superficial portions of the branchiomere, however, a sheet of tissue arises which gradually extends upward and downward to form a thin covering for the entire head and neck, its lower portion giving rise to the platysma and the nuchal fascia which extends backward from the dorsal border of this muscle, while its upper parts become the occipito-frontalis and the superficial muscles of the face (the muscles of ex- pression), together with the fasciae which unite the various muscles of this group. The extension of the platysma sheet of muscles over the face is well shown by the development of the branches of the facial nerve which supply it (Fig. 117). The degeneration of the upper part of the third arch produces a shifting forward of one of the muscles derivedTHE CRANIAL MUSCULATURE- B Fig. 117.—Head of Embryos {A) of Two Months and (5) of Three Months showing the Extension of the Seventh Nerve upon THE Face.—{['opozvsky.) 20THE CRANIAL MUSCULATURE. 2l8 from its branchiomere, the stylopharyngeus arising from the base of the styloid process. The innervation of this muscle by the ninth nerve indicates, however, its true sig- nificance, and since fibers of this nerve of the third arch also pass to the constrictor muscles of the pharynx, a portion of these must also be regarded as having arisen from the third branchiomere. The cartilages of the fourth and fifth arches enter into the formation of the larynx and the muscles of the corre- sponding branchiomeres constitute the muscles of the larynx, together with the remaining portions of the constrictors of the pharynx and the muscles of the soft palate, with the exception of the tensor. Both these arches have branches of the tenth nerve associated with them and hence this nerve supplies the muscles named. In addition, two of the ex- trinsic muscles of the tongue, the glosso-palatinus and chon- droglossus, belong to the fourth or fifth branchiomere, although the remaining muscles of this physiological set are myotomic in origin. Finally, portions of two other muscles should probably be included in the list of branchiomeric muscles, these mus- cles being the trapezius and sternomastoid. It has already been seen that they are partly derived from the cervical myotomes, but they also appear to be innervated in part by the spinal accessoi"y, and since the motor fibers of this nerve are serially homologous with those of the vagus it would seem that the muscles which they supply are probably branchiomeric in origin. Observations on the development of these muscles, determining their relations to the branch- iomeres, are necessary, however, before their morphological significance can be regarded as definitely settled. The table on page 219 shows the relations of the various cranial muscles to the myotomes and branchiomeres, as well as to the motor cranial nerves.TITE CRANIAL MUSCITLATURE. Eleventh. Trapezius. Sterno- mastoid. Tenth. Constric- tors of pharynx (in part). Pharyngo- nalaii mm Levator veli palatini. Musculus uvul?e. Muscles of the larynx. Glosso-pal- atinus. Chrondro- glossus. Ninth. Stylo-pha- ryngeus. Constrictors of pharynx (in part). Seventh. Stylohyoid. Digastric (posterior belly). Stapedius. Platysma. uccipito- frontalis. Muscles of expression. Sixth. Lateral rectus. Fifth. Temporal. Masseter. Pterygoids. Mylohyoid. Digastric (anierior belly). Tensor veli palatini. Tensor tympani. Fourth. Superior oblique. Third. Superior "j Inferior >-recti. Medial J Inferior oblique. Nerve. Myotomic muscles. Branchiomeric muscles. 1TI-IE LIMB MUSCLES. 220 The Limb Muscles.—It has been customary to regard the limb muscles as derivatives of certain of the myotomes, these structures in their growth ventrally in the trunk walls being supposed to pass out upon the postaxial surface of the limb buds and loop back again to the trunk along the prc-eaxial surface, each myotome thus giving rise to a por- tion of both the dorsal and the ventral musculature of the limb. This view has not, however, been verified by direct observation of an actual looping of the myotomes over the axis of the limb buds; indeed, on the contrary, the limb muscles have been found to develop from the cores of mesenchyme which form the axes of the limb buds and from which the limb skeleton is also developed. This may be explained by supposing that the limb muscles are primarily derivatives of the myotomes and that an extensive concen- tration of their developmental history has taken place, so that the axial mesenchyme actually represents myotomic material even though no direct connection between it and the myotomes can be discovered. Condensations of the developmental history certainly occur and the fact that the muscles of the human limbs, as they differentiate from the axial cores, present essentially the same arrangement as in the adult seems to indicate that there is actually an extensive condensation of the phylogenetic history of the individual muscles, since comparative anatomy shows the arrangement of the muscles of the higher mammalian limbs to be the result of a long series of progressive modifications from a primitive condition. However, even though this be the case, there is yet the possibility that the limb musculature, like the limb skeleton, may take its origin from the ventral mesoderm and consequently belong to a different embry- onic category from the axial myotomic muscles. The strongest evidence in favor of the myotomic origin of the limb muscles is that furnished by their nerve supply.THE LIMB MUSCLES. 221 this presenting a distinctly segmental arrangement. This does not necessarily imply, however, a corresponding pri- marily metameric arrangement of the muscles, any more than the pronouncedly segmental arrangement of the cuta- neous nerves implies a primary metamerism of the dermis (see p. 148). It may mean only that the nerves, being seg- mental, retain their segmental relations to one another even in their distribution to non-metameric structures, and that, consequently, the limb musculature is supplied in succes- sion from one border of the limb bud to the other from succeeding nerve roots. But whether further observation may prove or disprove the myotomic origin of the limb musculature, the fact re- mains that it possesses a segmentally arranged innervation, and it is possible, therefore, to recognize in the limb buds a series of parallel bands of muscle tissue, extending longi- tudinally along the bud and each supplied by a definite seg- mental nerve. And furthermore, corresponding to each band upon the ventral (prjeaxial) surface of the limb bud, there is a band similarly innervated upon the dorsal (post- axial) surface, since the fibers which pass to the limb from each nerve root sooner or later arrange themselves in prie- axial and postaxial groups as is shown in the diagram Fig. 118. The first nerve which enters the limb bud lies along its anterior border, and consequently the muscle bands wdiich are supplied by it will, in the adult, lie along the outer side of the arm and along the inner side of the leg, in consequence of the rotation in opposite directions which the limbs undergo during development (see p. 91). The first nerve which supplies the muscles attached to the dorsum of the ilium is the second lumbar, and follow- ing that there come successively from before backward the remaining lumbar and the first and second sacral nerves. The arrangement of the muscle bands supplied by these222 THE LIMB MUSCLES. nerves and the muscles of the adult to which they contribute may be seen from Fig. 119. What is shown there is only the upper portions of the post-axial bands, their lower por- tions extending downward on the anterior surface of the leg. Only the sacral bands, however, extend throughout the entire length of the limb into the foot, the second lum- FiG. 118.—Diagram of a Segment of the Body and Limb. hi, Axial blastema; dm, dorsal musculature of trunk; rl, nerve to limb; s, septum between dorsal and ventral trunk musculature; str.d, dorsal layer of limb musculature; tr.d and tr.v, dorsal and ventral divisions of a spinal nerve; vm, ventral musculature of the trunk.— (Kollmann.) bar band passing down only to about the middle of the thigh, the third to about the knee, the fourth to about the middle of the crus and the fifth as far as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and the same is true of the corre- sponding prseaxial bands, which descend from the ventral surface of the os coxae (innominatum) along the inner and posterior surfaces of the leg to the same points. The firstTHE LIMB MUSCLES. 223 and second sacral bands can be traced into the foot, the first o-ivino- rise to the musculature of its inner side and the sec- o o Fig. 119.—External Surface of the Os Innominatum showing the ArrACHMENT OF Muscles and the Zones Supplied by the Various Nerves. 12, Twelfth thoracic nerve; / to V, lumbar nerves; i and 2, sacral nerves.—{Bolk.) ond to that of its outer side, the praeaxial bands forming the plantar musculature, while the postaxial ones are uponTHE LIMB MUSCLES. 224 :he the dorsum of the foot as a result of the rotation which tl Hnib has undergone. In a transverse section through a hnib at any level all Fig. I20.—Sections through (A) the Thigh and (B) the Calf SHOWING THE ZoNES SUPPLIED BY THE NeRVES. ThE NeRVES ARE Numbered in Continuation with the Thoracic Series.—(A, after Bolk.) the muscle bands, both pr^eaxial and postaxial, which de- scend to that level will be cut and will lie in a definite suc- cession from one border of the limb to the other, as is seenTHE LIMB MUSCLES. 225 in Fig. 120. In the differentiation of the individual mus- cles which proceeds as the nerves extend from the trunk into the axial mesenchyme of the limb, the muscle bands undergo modifications similar to those already described as occurring in the trunk myotomes. Thus, each of the muscles represented in Fig. 120, B, is formed by the fusion of elements derived from two or more bands; the soleus and gastrocnemius represent deep and superficial layers Fig. 121.—Section through the Upper Part of the Arm showing THE Zones Supplied by the Nerves. Sv to 7v, Ventral branches; 5J to 8(/, dorsal branches of the cervical nerves.—{Bolk.) formed from the same bands by a horizontal (tangential) splitting, these same muscles contain a portion of the second sacral band which overlaps muscles composed only of higher myotomes, and the intermuscular septum between the pero- neus brevis and the flexor hallucis longus represents a por- tion of the third sacral band which has degenerated into connective tissue. A similar arrangement occurs in the bands which are to be recognized in the musculature of the upper limb. These are supplied by the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and 5^THE LIMB MUSCLES. 226 eighth cervical and the first thoracic nerves, and only those supplied by the eighth cervical and the first thoracic nerves extend as far as the tips of the fingers. The arrangement of the bands in the upper part of the brachium may be seen from Fig. 121, in connection with which it must be noted that the fourth cervical band does not extend down to the level at which the section is taken and that the prae- axial band of the eighth cervical nerve and both the prae- axial and postaxial bands of the first thoracic are repre- sented only by connective tissue in this region. In another sense than the longitudinal one there is a division of the limb musculature into more or less definite areas, namely, in a transverse direction in accordance with the jointing of the skeleton. Thus, there may be recognized a group of muscles which pass from the axial skeleton to the pectoral girdle, another from the limb girdle to the brachium or thigh, another from the brachium or thigh to the antibrachium or crus, another from the antibrachium or crus to the carpus or tarsus, and another from the carpus or tarsus to the digits. This transverse segmentation, if it may be so termed, is not, however, perfectly definite, many muscles, even in the lower verte- brates, passing over more than one joint, and in the mam- malia, especially, it is further obscured by secondary migra- tions, by the partial degeneration of muscles and by an end to end union of primarily distinct muscles. The latissimus dorsi, serratus anterior and pectoral muscles are all examples of a process of migration as is shown by their innervation from cervical nerves, as well as by the actual migration which has been traced in the developing embryo (Mall, Lewis). In the lower limb evidences of migration may be seen in the femoral head of the biceps, comparative anatomy showing this to be a de- rivative of the gluteal set of muscles which has secondarily227 THE LIMB MUSCLES. become attached to the femur and has associated itself with a prceaxial muscle to form a compound structure. An appearance of migration may also be produced by a muscle making- a secondary attachment below its orig-inal origin or above the insertion and the upper or lower part, as the case may be, then degenerating into connective tissue. This has been the case with the peroneus longus, which, in the lower mammals, has a femoral origin, but has in man a new origin from the fibula, its upper portion being repre- sented by the fibular lateral ligament of the knee-joint. So too the pectoralis minor primarily inserted into the humerus, but it has made a secondary attachment to the coracoid process, its distal portion forming a coraco-humeral ligament. The comparative study of the flexor muscles of the anti- brachial and crural regions has yielded abundant evidence of extensive modifications in the differentiation of the limb muscles. In the tailed amphibia these muscles are represented by a series of superposed layers, the most superficial of which arises from the humerus or femur, while the remaining ones take their origin from the ulna or fibula and are directed distally and laterally to be in- serted either into the palmar or plantar aponeurosis, or, in the case of the deeper layers, into the radius (tibia) or carpus (tarsus). In the arm of the lower mammalia the deepest layer becomes the pronator quadratus, the lateral portions of the superficial layer are the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor carpi radialis, while the intervening layers, together with the median portion of the superficial one, assuming a more directly longitudinal direction, fuse to form a common flexor mass which acts on the digits through the palmar aponeurosis. From this latter structure and from the carpal and metacarpal bones five layers of palmar muscles take origin. The radial and ulnar portions of the228 THE LIMB MUSCLES. most superficial of these become the flexor polHcis brevis and abductor polHcis and the abductor quinti digiti, while the rest of the layer degenerates into connective tissue, formin Fig. 122.—Transverse sections through (A) the forearm and (B) the hand showing the arrangement of the hiyers of the flexor muscles. The superhcial layer is shaded horizontally, the second layer verti- cally, the third obliquely to the left, the fourth vertically, and the fifth obliquely to the right. AhM, abductor digiti quinti; AdP, adductor pollicis; BR, brachio-radialis; ECD, extensor digitorum communis; ECU, extensor carpi ulnaris; EI, extensor indicis; EMD, extensor digiti quinti; EMP, abductor pollicis longus; ERB extensor carpi radialis brevis; FCR, flexor carpi radialis; FCU, flexor carpi ulnaris; FLP, flexor pollicis longus; FM, flexor digiti quinti brevis; FP. flexor digitorum profundus; FS, flexor digi- torum sublimis; ID, interossei dorsales; IV, interossei volares; L, lumbricales; OM, opponens digiti quinti; PL, palmaris longus; PT, pronator teres; R, radius; U, ulna; II-V, second to fifth meta- carpal.229 THE LIMB MUSCLES. Gradually superficial portions of the antibrachial flexor mass separate off, carrying with them the layers of the palmar aponeurosis from which the tendons representing the superficial layer of the palmar muscles arise, and they form with these the flexor digitorum sublimis. The deeper layers of the antibrachial flexor mass become the flexor digitorum profundus and the flexor pollicis longus (Fig. 122, A), and retain their conection with the deeper layers of the palmar aponeurosis which form their tendons; and since the second layer of the palmar muscles takes origin from this portion of the aponeurosis it becomes the lumbrical muscles, arising from the profundus tendons (Fig. 122, B). The third layer of palmar muscles be- comes the adductors of the digits, reduced in man to the adductor pollicis, while from the two deepest layers the interossei are developed. Of these the fourth layer con- sists primarily of a pair of slips corresponding to each digit, while the fifth is represented by a series of muscles which extend obliquely across between adjacent metacarpals. With these last muscles certain of the fourth layer slips unite to form the dorsal interossei, while the rest become the volar interossei. The modifications of the almost identical primary ar- rangement in the crus and foot are somewhat different. The superficial layer of the crural flexors becomes the gas- trocnemius and plantaris (Fig. 123, A) and the deepest layer becomes the popliteus and the interosseous membrane. The second and third layers unite to form a common mass which is inserted into the deeper layers of the plantar apo- neurosis and later differentiates into the soleus and the long digital flexor, the former shifting its insertion from the plantar aponeurosis to the os calcis, while the flexor retains its connection with the deeper layers of the aponeurosis, these separating from the superficial layer to form the long230 THE LIMB MUSCLES. flexor tendons. The fourth layer partly assumes a longitu- dinal direction and becomes the tibialis posterior and the flexor hallucis longus and partly retains its original oblique direction and its connection with the deep layers of the plantar aponeurosis, becoming the quadratus plantae. In the foot (Fig. 123, B) the superficial layer persists as mus- cular tissue, forming the abductors, the flexor digitorum Fig. 123.—Transverse sections through (A) the crus and (B) the foot, showing- the arrangement of the layers of the flexor muscles. The shading has the same significance as in the preceding figure. AbH, abductor hallucis; AhM, abductor minimi digiti; AdH, adductor hallucis; ELD, extensor longus digitorum; F, fibula; FBD, flexor brevis digitorum; FBH, flexor brevis hallucis; FBM, flexor brevis minimi digiti; FLD, flexor longus digitorum; G, gastrocnemius; ID, interossei dorsalis; IV, interossei ventrales; L, lumbricales; P, plantaris; Pe, peroneus longus; Po, popliteus; S, soleus; T, tibia; TA, tibialis anticus; TP, tibialis posticus; I-V, first to fifth metatarsal. brevis and the medial head of the flexor hallucis brevis, the second and third layers become respectively the lumbricales, the lateral head of the flexor hallucis brevis and the adduc- tor hallucis, while the fourth and fifth layers together form the interossei, as in the hand, the flexor quinti digiti brevis really belonging to that group of muscles.LITERATURE. 231 LITERATURE. C. R. Bardeen and W. H. Lewis : " Development of the Limbs, Body- wall, and Back in Man," The American Jottrnal of Anat., i, 1901. K. Bardeleben : " Muskel und Fascia," Jenaische Zcitschr. fiir Natur- ivisscnsch., xv, 1882. L. Bolk: " Beziehungen zwischen Skelett, Muskulatur and Nerven dcr Extremitaten, dargelegt am Beckengiirtel, an dessen Muskulatur sowie am Plexus lumbosacralis," Morphol. Jahrbuch, xxi, 1894. L. Bolk : " Rekonstruktion der Segmentirung der Gliedmassenmusku- latur dargelegt an den Muskein des Oberschenkels und des Schultergiirtels," Morphol. Jahrbuch, xxii, 1895. L. Bolk : " Die Sklerozonie des Humerus," Morphol. Jahrbuch, xxiii, 1896. L. Bolk : " Die Segmentaldif¥erenzierurig des menschlichen Rumpfes und seiner Extremitaten," i, Morphol. Jahrbuch, xxv, 1898. R. Futamura : " Ueber die Entwickelung der Facialismuskulatur des Menschen," Anat. Hefte, xxx, 1906. E. GoDLEWSKi: " Die Entwicklung des Skelet- und Herzmuskelgewebes der Saugethiere," Archiv fiir mikr. Anat., LX, 1902. W. P. Herringham : " The Minute Anatomy of the Brachial Plexus," Proceedings of the Royal Soc. London, xli, 1886. W. H. Lewis : " The Development of the Arm in Man," Amcr. Jour, of Anat., I, 1902. J. B. MacCallum : " On the Histology and Histogenesis of the Heart Muscle-cell," Anat. Anzeiger, xiii, 1897. J. B. MacCallum : " On the Histogenesis of the Striated Muscle-fiber and the Growth of the Human Sartorius Muscle," Johns J-iopkins Hospital Bulletin, 1898. F. P. Mall : " Development of the Ventral Abdominal Walls in Man," Journ. of Morphol., xiv, 1898. J. P. McMurrich: "The Phylogeny of the Forearm Flexors," Amer. Journ. of Anat., 11, 1903. J. P. McMurrich: "The Phylogeny of the Palmar Musculature," Amer. Journ. of Anat., 11, 1903. J. P. McMurrich: "The Phylogeny of the Crural Flexors," Amer. Journ. of Anat., iv, 1904. J. P. McMurrich: "The Phylogeny of the Plantar Musculature," Amer. Journ. of Anat., \i, 1907. A. Meek: "Preliminary Note on the Post-embryonal History of Striped Muscle-fibers in Mammalia," Anat. Anzeiger, xiv, 1898 (See also Anat. Anzeiger, xv, 1899.) K Morpurgo: "Ueber die post-embryonale Entwickelung der quer- gcstreiften Muskel von weissen Ratten," Anat. Anzeiger, xv, 1899.232 DEVELOPMENT OF MUSCULAR SYSTEM. I. PoPOWSKY: " Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte dcs N. facialis beim Men- schen," Morphol. Jahrhuch, xxiii, 1896. T. Popowsky: "Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Dammmuskulatur 1)c.Mm Menschcn," Anat. Hcfte, xi, 1899. L. Rethi: "Der peripheren Verlauf der motorischen Rachen- and Gau- mcnnerven," Sitziingsber. der kais. A lead. Wissensch. IVicn. Math.- Nalurzviss. Classc, cii, 1893. C. S. Sherrington : " Notes on the Arrangement of Some Motor Fibers in the Lumbo-sacral Plexus," Journal of Physiol., xiii, 1892. J. B. Sutton : " Ligaments, their Nature and Morphology," London, 1897.21 233 " CHAPTER IX THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CIRCULATORY AND LYMPHATIC SYSTEMS. At present nothing is known as to the eadiest stages of development of the circulatory system in the human embryo, but it may be supposed that they resemble in their funda- mental features what has been observed in such forms as the rabbit and the chick. In both these the system originates in two separate parts, one of whjcli, located in the embryonic mesoderm, giyesjjsejo the heart while the other, arising in the extraembryonic mesoderm. foj;ms Jhe^ fi_rst_blood- vessels. It will be convenient to consider these two parts separately, and the formation of the blood-vessels may be first described. In the rabbit the extension of the mesoderm from the embryonic region, where it first appears, over the yolk-sac is a gradual process, and it is in the more peripheral por- tions of the layer that the blood-vessels first make their appearance. They can be distinguished before the splitting of the mesoderm has been completed, but are ^Iways devel- oped in that portion of the layer which is most intimately associated with the yolk-sac, and consequently becomes the splanchiiic layer. The first indication of the vessels is the appearance in the peripheral portion of the mesoderm of cords or minute patches of spherical cells TFig. 124, A). These increase^in size by the division and separation of the cells from one. aiiotlier (Fig. 124, B), a cjear fluid appear- ing_in the intervals which separate them. Soon the cells surrounding each cord arrange themselves to form an en-DEVELOPMENT OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 234 closing wall, and the cords, increasing in size, unite together to form a network of^^vessels in which float the spherical cells which may now be known as erythrocytes. Viewed from the surface at this stage a portion of the vascular area of the mesoderm would have the appearance shown in Fig. 125, revealing a dense network of canals in which, at inter- vals, are groups of erythrocytes adherent to the walls, con- stituting what have been termed the blood-islands, while in Fig. 124.^—Transverse Section through the Area Vasculosa of Rabbit Embryos showing the Transformation of Mesoderm CELLS into the Vascular Cords. Ec, Ectoderm; En, endoderm; Me, mesoderm.— (van der Stricht.) the meshes of the network unaltered mesoderm cells can be seen, forming the so-called siibstancc-islands. At the J3errpheiy of the vascular area the vessels arrange themselves to form a sinus terminalis enclosingJhe entire area, and the vascularization of the splanchnic mesoderm gradually extends toward the embryo. Reaching it, the vessels penetratelhe embryonic tissues and eventually come into connection with the heart, which has already differen- tiated and has begun to beat before the connection with the vessels is made, so that when it is made the circulation isDEVELOPMENT OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. J > < / at once established. Before, however, the vascularization Tcaches"^the embryo some of the canals begin to enlarge (Fig. 126, A), producing arteries and veins, the rest of_tlie net- work formirig'capinaries uniting these two sets of vessels, and, this process continu- ing, there are eventually . differentiated a sjngle om- V pJialo-mesenteric{mtelline) artery and two omphalo- ") mesenteric {vitelline') veins (Fig. T26, J5). In the human embryo the small size af__the-jyQlk- v sac permits of the exten- sion of the vascular area over its entire surface at an early period, and this condition has already been reached in the earliest stages known and conse- quently no sinus terminalis such as occurs in the rab- l)it is visible. Otherwise the conditions are prob- \ . ' i ably similar to what has Fig. 125.—Surface View of a Por- , 1-111 ^1 TION OF THE ArEA VaSCULOSA OF been described above, the^ ^ Chick. first circulation developed The vascular network is represented by the shaded portion. Bi, Blood- island; Si, substance-island. — {Disse.) Si being associated with the yolk-sac. iris to be noted that the capillary network of the area vasculosa consists of relatively wide anastomosing spaces whose endothelial lining rests directly upon the substance islands (Fig. 125). In .ce.rtain of the embryonic'organs, notably the liver, the metanephros and the heart, the net-236 DEVELOPMENT OF THE BLOOD-VESSELS. work has a similar character, consisting of wide anastomos- ing spaces bounded bj[_ajj_jendgthelium which rests directly, or almost so, iipon^the parenchyma of the organ (the hepatic cylinders, the mesonephric tubules, or the cardiac muscle trabeculje) (Figs. 127 and 180, B). To this^orm_of_ca£- illary the term sinnsoid has been_applied (Minot), and it ^ippeai':s.to_be formed by the expansion of the wall of a pre- viously existing blood-vessel, which thus moulds itself, as it were, over the parenchyma of the organ. The true cap- PiG. 126—The Vascular Areas of Rabbit Embryos. In B the Veins ARE Represented by Black and the Network is Omitted.— (van Benedcn and Julin.) illaries^ onj^^"'^ ot^"*^^" hand, are more definitely tubular in form,'are usually imbedded in mesenchymatous connective tis7ue and are developed in the same manner as the primary capillaries of the area vasculosa, by the aggregation oiv^^ factive cells tg_ form cords, and the subsequent hollowing out of these. Whether these vasifactive cells are new^dilt firentiations" of the embryonic mesenchyme or qre buddedTHE FORMATION OF THE BLOOD. off from the walls of existing capillaries which have grown in from extra-embryonic regions, is at present undecided. The Formation of the Blood.—The erythrocytes, which are the first blood-corpnscles, are all nucleated and are for a time the only cells occurring in the blood, though later other cells arising in tissues exterior to the Jjlood-yessds, makejheir way into the vessels, forming leukocytes. From their very first formation then the red_(erythrocytes) and white (leukocytes) blood-corpuscles have a different origin, andflhey remain distinct throughout life, one form never j becoming converted into the other. So long as the formation of blood-vessels is taking place in the extra-embryonic mesoderm, so long are new erythro- cytes being differentiated from the mesoderm. But whether the formation of blood-vessels within the embryo results from a differentiation of the embryonic mesoderm in sifu^ or ^frpm the_._actual ingrowth of vessels from the extra- embryonic regions (His), is as yet uncertain, and hence it is also uncertain whether erythrocytes are differentiated from the embryonic mesoderm or merely pass into the embryonic region from the more peripheral areas. However this may be, it is certain that the erythrocytes increase by division in the interior of the embryo, and that there are certain por- tions of the body in wliich these divisions take place most abundantly, partly, perhaps, on account_of the more favor- able conditions of nutrition which they present and partly k because they are regions where the circulation is sluggish and permits the accumulation of erythrocytes. These^ re- gions constitute what have been termed the hccmatot>oietic j| organs^ and are especially noticeable in the later stages of fetal life, dii™ishin^ in luimber and variety about the time of birth^ It must be remembered, however, that the life of in(lividual coqniscles is comparatively short, their death and disintegration taking place continually during the ent[re life238 THE FORMATION OF TTIfi BLOOD. o^f the individual, so that there is a necessity for the forma- tion of new corpuscle:^ and for the existence of hrcmato- poietic organs at all stages of Hfe. In the fetus erxthrocytes in process of division may be found in the generaUjrculation and even in the heart itself, but they are much more plentiful in places where the blood-pressure is diminished, as, for in- stance, in the larger capillaries of the lower limbs and in the capil- laries of all the visceral oi;gans^ and of the sub- cutaneous tissues. Cer- tain organs, however, such as the Jiyer, the S£leen^_ and the Jjone^ marrow, present especi- ally favorable conditions for the multiplication of the blood-cells, and in these not only are the capillaries enlarged so as to afford resting-places for the corpuscles, but gaps appear in the walls of the vessels through which the blood-elements may pass and so come into intimate relations with the actual tissues of the organs (Fig. 127). After birth the hcematopoietic function of the liver ceases and that of the spleen becomes limited to the formation of white corpuscles, though the complete function may be re-established in cases of extreme anaemia. The bone-marrow, however, retains the function completely, being throughout life the seat of formation of both red and white corpuscles, the lymphatic nodes and folHcles, as well Fig. 127.—Section of a Portion of the Liver of a Rabbit Embryo of 5 mm. e, Erythrocytes in the liver substance and in a capillary; //, hepatic cells.— {van der S trie Jit.)THE FORMATION OF THE BLOOD. as the spleen, assisting;^Jn_tlie formation of the latter elements. Until about the second month of development the erythro- cytes and leukocytes are the only elements found in the blood, and in the haematopoietic organs they may be observed in active mitosis. In addition other cells, having the^ame general^appearanee as the erythrocytes but lacking haemo- globin, also occur, and tliese, which may be termed eryihrb- hlastSj^ produce by division erythrocytes in which haemo- globin gradually appears. After the second month, how- ever, a third form of blood-elements appears in the form of non-nucleated discs containing haemoglobin, and these may be termed erytkroplastids. They are derived from the ery- throcytes, whose nuclei, origi- nally reticular in structure, (^\ (^\ /-^^^ gradually condense to become ^-"'^ ^-j^ \Jy \_j spherical, deeply staining „ _ „ ^ ^ * Fig. 128.—Stages in the Trans- masses, and are finally com- formation of an Erythrocyte pletely extrud^from tli^ '/.r//r/c?0™'°''^'"°'~ cytoplasm (Fig. 128). The cast-off nuclei undergo degeneration and phagocytic ab- sorption by the leukocytes, and the masses of cytoplasm pass into the circulation, becoming more and more numerous as development proceeds, until finally they are the only ■haemoglobin-containing elements in the blood and form '^^ll^L^I^ properly termed the red blood-corpuscles. In the later Jetal and the post-natal stages erythrocytes are to be found only in the red bone-marrow. ^^J^^.l^r^^^^tj^P new leukocytes there is a tendency for the dividing cells to collect in more or less definite groups which have been termed germ-centers (Flemming). The new cells when they first pass into the circulation have a rela-' tively large_niicleus surrounded by a small amount of cyto- plasm, and, since they resemble the cells found in the lym- phatic vessels, are termed kmMiocvtes. In the circulation24'0 THE FORMATION OF THE BLOOD. the nuclei become larger and the cytoplasm more voluminous I ajld__amceboid, the cells being then known as mononuclear I leukocytes, and transitional forms lead from these to^tiir , laj-ger cells with irregularly lobed or branched nuclei, the , polymorphonuclear leukocytes, while these again seem to \ lead to polynuclear cells. It is probable that these yariqus^ \ kinds of cells stand in genetic relation to one another, the ^ polymorphonuclear and polynuclear forms perhaps repre- senting the commencement of the degeneration and break- ^ ing down of the elements. In_the fetal hgematopoietic organs and in the bone-marrow of the adult Jarge, so-called giant-cells are found, which, although they do not enter into the general circulation, are yet associated with the development of the blood-corpuscles. These giant-cells as they occur in the bone-marrow are of two kinds which seem to be quite distinct, although both are probably_forrned^ from leukocytes. In one kind the cyto- plasm contains several nuclei, whence they have been termed polycaryocytes, and they seem to beJhej^ells which have al- ready been mentioiiecl as_ostmcla_s^ (p. 165). In the_otlTer kind (Fig, 129) the nucleus es single, but it is large and irregular in shape, frequently appearing as if it were_pro- ducing buds. These megacaryocyte£ appear to be phago- c^tic cells, havingjis their function the destruction of degen- erated corpuscles and of the nuclei of the erythrocytes. Little is certainly known as yet as to_ the origin of the blood-platelets, though the most plausible suggestion is that they are the fragmented nuclei of broken-down leukoc3^tes. The question of the origin of the various forms of blood- elements is a very difficult one, and the opinions of some ob- servers are very different from some of the statements made above. Thus it has been maintained that the nuclei of the erythrocytes are not extruded in the formation of erythro- plastids, but undergo a degeneration within the original cell; J that mesenchyme cells of the marrow become transformedTHE FORMATION OF THE HEART. 241 into leukocytes; that the polymorphonuclear and polynuclear leukocytes are not stages leading to disintegration, but repre- sent stages of amitotic division, etc. It is impossible in the limits of the present work to discuss these various ideas, and the views which have seemed to be most strongly supported by observations have been chosen for presentation. Fig. 129.—Portion of a Section from the Liver of an Embryo Cat OF 2.7 MM. showing A MeGACARYOCYTE SURROUNDED BY ERYTHRO- CYTES IN A Blood-vessel.— (Hozvell.) The Formation of the Heart.—The heart makes its ap- pearance while the embryo is still spread out upon the surface of the yolk-sac, and arises as two_sepa.rate portions which only later come into contact in the median line. On each side of the body near the margins of the embry- onic areata fold of the splanchnopleure'^appears, projecting into jdie^coelomic_xa.Yity, and within this fold a v^ery tlim- walled sac is formed, probably by a splitting of¥ of its in- nermost cells (Fig. 130, A). Eadhjold will produce a portion of the muscular walls {myocardiuiit) of the heart, and each sac j3art„.Q.Lits_eiidotlieliu (endocardmm). tRe constriction of the embryo from the yolk-sac proceeds, the two folds are gradually brought nearer,together (Fig. 130, B), until they meet in the mid-ventral line, when the myocardial folds and endocardial sac fuse together (Fig. •22242 THE FORMATION OF THE HEART. 130, C) to_form a cylindrical heart lyi^^^ in the mid-ventral line of the body, in front of the anterior surface" of^he Fig. 130.—Diagrams Illustrating the Formation of the Heart IN the Guinea-pig. The mesoderm is represented in black and the endocardium by a broken line, am, Amnion; en, endoderm; h, heart; i, digestive tract.— {After Strahl and Carius.) yolk-sac and in^ what will later be the cervical region of the body. At_an early stage the various veins which have alreadyTHE FORMATION OF THE HEART. been formed, the omphalo-mesenterics, umbilicalSj jugulars and cardinals, unit^togetherjo open into a sac-like struc- ture, ^t\ie sinus venosus^nd this 0]3ens into the posterior end of the heart cylinder. * The anterior end of the cylinder tapers off to form the aortic bulb, which is continued for- ward on the ventral surface of the pharyngeal region and carries the blood away from, the heart. The blood accord- FiG. 131.—Heart of Embryo of 2.15 MM., FROM A Reconstruc- tion. a, atrium; ab, aortic bulb; d, dia- phragm; dc, ductus Cuvieri; /, liver; v, ventricle; vj, jugular vein; vu, umbilical vein.— (His.) Fig. 132.—Heart of Embryo of 4.2 mm. seen from the dorsal Surface. DC, Ductus Cuvieri; lA, left atrium; rA, right atrium; vj, jugular vein; VI, left ventricle; vu, umbilical vein.— (His.) ingly opens into the posterior end of the heart tube and flows out from its anterior end. The simple cylindrical form soon changes, however, the heart tube in embryos of 2.15 mm. in length, having be^ come bent upon itself into a somewhat gighaped curve (Fig- 131)- Dorsally and to the left is the lower end into which the sinus venosus opens, and froiTT_this_the heart tube ascends somewhat and then bends so as to pass at firstTHE FORMATION OF THE HEART, 244 ventrally and then downward and to the right, where it again bends at first dorsally and then anteriorj^ to pass over into the aortic bulb. The portion of the curve which hes dorsally and to the left is destiii^^p ^j^^^to both atria, the portion which passes from mght to le/t represents the future left ventricle, while the succeeding portion repre- sents the right ventricle. In la^er stages (Fig. 132) the left ventricular portion drops downward in front of the atrial portion^ assuming a more horizontal position, while the portion which represents the right ven- tricle is drawn forward so as to lie in the same plane as the left. At the same time two small out-pouchings de- velop from the atrial part of the heart and form the first indications of the two atria. As develop- ment progresses, these in- crease in size to form large pouches opening into a common atrial canal (Fig. 133) which is directly continuous with the left ventricle, and as the enlargement of the pouches continues their openings into the canal enlarge, until finally the pouches become continuous with one another, forming a gingle large sac, and the atrjal canal becomes reduced to a short tube which is slightly invaginated into the ventricle (Fig. 134)- In the meantime the sinus venosus, which was originally an oval sac and opened into the atrial canal, has elongated transversely until it has assumed the form of a crescent whose convexity is in contact with the walls of the atria, Fig. 133.—Heart of Embryo of 5 MM., Seen from in Front and SLIGHTLY from AbOVE.— (HtS.)THE FORMATION OF THE HEART. and its opening iiito the heart has verged toward the right, until it is_situat'ed entirely within the area of the right atrium. _As the enlargement of the atria continues, the right horn and median portion of _the crescent are gradually taken up into their walls, so that the various veins which originally opened into the sinus now open directly into the right atrium by a single opening, guarcled by a projecting Fig. 134.—Inner Surface of the Heart of an Embryo of lo mm. al, atrio-ventricular thickening; sp, septum spurium; ss, septum primuni; sv, septum ventriculi; ve, Eustachian valve.— (His.) fold which is continued upon the roof of the atrium as a mus- cular ridge known as the septum spurium (Fig. 134, sp). The l£flJl2IilJ9^ the crescent is not taken up into the atrial wall, but remains upon its posterior surface as an elongated sac forming the coronary sinus. The division of the now practically single atrial cavity into the permanent right and left atria begins with the^for- mation of a falciform ridge running dorso-ventrallv across246 THE FORMATION OF THE HEART. the£oof of the cavity. This is the ajrialse^m or se^Jum_ primum (Fig. 134, ss), and it rapidly increases in size and thickens_upon its_ free margin, which reaches^almost to the upper border_oLthe_s]wt_atrial canal (Fig. 136). The continuity of the two atria is thus almost dissolved, but is so^^rcr established by the formation in the dorsal part of the septum of an^ opening which soon reaches a considerable size and is known as the foramen ovale (Fig. 133, fo). Close to the atrial septum, and parallel with it, a second ridge appears in the roof and ventral wall of the right atrium. This septum secundum {S2) is from the beginning very much thicker than the atrial septum, and Jts. fre^ edge, arching around the ventral edge and floor of the fora- men ovale, becomes continuous with the left lip of the fold which guards the opening of the sinus venosus and with this forms the annulus of Vieussens of the adult heart. When the absorption of the sinus venosus into the wall of the right atrium has proceeded so far that the veins com- municate directly with the atrium, the vena cava superior opens into it at the upper part of the dorsal wall, the vena cava inferior more laterally, and below this is the smaller opening of the coronary sinus. The upper portion of the right lip of the fold which originally surrounded the open- ing of the sinus venosus, toother with the septum spurium, gradually disappears ; the lower portion persists, however, Fig. 135.—Heart of Em- bryo OF 10.2 CM. FROM WHICH Half of the Right Auricle Has Been Removed. fo, Foramen ovale; pa, pul- monary artery; 6"!^ septum primum; S^, septum secun- dum ; Sa, systemic aorta; V, right ventricle; vci and vcs, inferior and superior venae cavse; Ve, Eustachian valve.THE FORMATION OF THE HEART. 247 and forms {^i) the Etistachianjuahe (Fig. 135, F^), guard- ing the Opening of the inferior cava and directing the blood entering by it toward the foramen ovale, and (2) the Thebesian valve, which guards the opening of the coronary sinus. At first no veins communicate with the left atrium, but on the development of the lungs and the establishment of their vessels, the pulmonary veins make connection with it. JTwo veins arise from each lung, and as^ they pass toward the heart they unite in pairs, the two vessels so formed again uniting to form a single short trunk which opens into the upper part of the atrium (Fig. 136, Vep). As is the case with the right atrium and the sinus venosus, the expansion of the left atrium brings about the absorp- tion of the short single trunk into its walls, and, the ex- pansion continuing, the two vessels are also absorbed, so that eventually the four primary veins- open independently into the atrium. While the atrial septa have been developing there has appeared on the dorsal wall of the ^atrial canal a tubercle- endocardium, and a similar thicken- ing also forms.on_the_ventral wall. Thgse. endocardial cushions increase in size and finahy unite together by their tips, forming a complete partition, diyiding the atrial canal into a right and left .half (Fig. 136). With^ the upper edge of this partition the thickened lower edge of the atrial septum^ unites^ so that the separation of the atria would be complete were it not for the foramen ovale. While these changes have been taking place in the atrial portion of the heart, the separation of the right and left ventricles has also been progressing, and in this two dis- tinct septa take part. From the floor of the ventriVnIqr cavity along the line of junction of Jhe_right_and left por- tions a ridge, composed largely of muscular tissue, arises (Figs. 134 and 136), and, growing more rapidly in its248 THE FORMATION OF THE HEART. dorsal jhan its ventral portion, it coiiies_mto_contAcLar!d tH!iL.^^t^..^.^l^..^2£!^LX^^*^ the partition of the atrial canal. Ventrally, however, the ridge, known as the ven- FiG. 136.—Section through a Reconstruction of the Heart of a Rabbit Embryo of 10.i mm. Ad and Adi, Right and As, left atrium; Bzvi and Bzuo, lower ends of the ridges which divide the aortic bulb; En, endocardial cushion; En.r and En.s, thickenings of the cushion; la, interatrial and Iv, interventricular communication; 6^1, septum primum; Sd, right and Ss, left horn of the sinus venosus; S.iv, ventricular septum; SM, opening of the sinus venosus into the atrium; Vd, right and Vs, left ventricle; Vej, jugular vein; Vep, pulmonary vein; Vvd and Vvs, right and left limbs of the valve guarding the opening of the sinus venosus.— (Born.) tricular septum, fails^ to reach the ventral part of the j)ar- titignj,^ so that an oval foramen, sitiiated just below the point where the aortic bulb arises, still remains betweenTHE FORMATION OF THE HEART, 249 the two ventricles. This opening is finally,closed b_y what is termed the aortic sephim. This makes its appearance in the aortic biilb just at the point where the.first.lateral branches which give origin to the pulmonary arteries (see p. 256) arise, and is formedjpy; the fusion of the free edges of two ridges which develop on opposite sides of the bulb. From its point of origin it gradually extends down the bulb_uritil it reaches_the veiitricle, where it_^fuses with the free edge of the ventricular septiim and so completes the separation of the two ventricles (Fig. 135). The bulb now consists of two vessels lying side by side, and owing to the position of the partition at its anterior end, one of these vessels, that which opens into the ri^ht ventricle, is continuous with the pulmonary arteries, while the other, which opens into the left ventricle, i.s.continuous with the rest of the vessels which arise from the forward continuation of the bulb. As soon as the development of the partition is completed, two grooves, corresponding in position to the lines of attach- ment of the partition on the inside of the bulb, make their appearance on the outside and gradually deepen until they finally meet a,nd divide the bulb into two separate vessels, one of which is the pulmonary aorta and the other the sys- temic^orta. In the earlx stages of the heart's development the muscle bundles which compose the wall of the ventricle are very loosely arranged, so that the ventricle is a somewhat spongy mass of muscular tissue with a relatively small cavity. As development proceeds the bundles nearest the outer surface come closer together and form a compact layer, those on the inner surface, however, retaining their loose arrange- ment for a.Jonger time (Fig. 136). The joweT'edge of the^atrial canal becomes prolonged on the lefTside into one, and on.the_riglit side into two, flaps which project down- ward into the ventricular cavity, and an additional flapTHE FORMATION OF THE HEART. 250 ^^isiLg"-^ffdT_^ from the lower edge of the partition of the atrial canal, so that" three flaps occur in the right atrio-ventricular opening and two in the left. To the under Fig. 137.—Diagrams of Sections through the Heart of Embryo Rabbits to show the Mode of Division of the Ventricles and of the Atrio-ventricular Orifice. Ao, Aorta; Ar.p, pulmonary artery; B, aortic bulb; Bwt, one of the ridges which divide the bulb; Eo, and Eu, upper and lower thicken- ings of the margins of the atrio-ventricular orifice; F.av.c, the original atrio-ventricular orifice; F.av.d and F.av.s, right and left atrio-ventricular orifices; Oi, interventricular communication; S.iv, ventricular septum; Vd and Vs, right and left ventricles.THE FORMATION OF THE HEART. 251 surfaces of these flaps the loosely arranged muscular tra- beculje of the ventricle are attached, and muscular tissue also occurs in the flaps. This condition is transitory, how- ever ; the muscular tissue of the flaps degenerates to form a dense layer of connective tissue, and at the same time the muscular trabeculse undergo a condensation. Some of_ them separate from the flaps, which represent the qtrio-_ vetiTricular valves, and form muscle bundles which may fuse throughout their entire length with the more compact portions of the ventricular walls, or else may be attached Fig. 138.—Diagrams showing the Development of the Auriculo- VENTRICULAR VaLVES. b, Muscular trabeculas; cht, chordae tendineae; mk and mk^, valve; pm, musculus papillaris; tc, trabeculse carnese; v, ventricle.— (Front Hertwig, after Gegenbaur.) only by their ends, forming loops; these two varieties of muscle bundles constitute the trabecule carnece o| Jthe adult heart. Other bundles may retain a transverse direction, passing across the ventricular cavity and farming the so- called moderator hands; while others, again, retaining their attachment to the valves, condeiise only at their lower ends to form the musculi papillares, their upper portions undergoing conversion into strong though slender fibrous cords, the chordce tcndinecE (Fig. 138). The endocardinal lining of the ventricles is at first a simple sac separated by a distinct interval from the myocar-252 THE FORMATION OF THE HEART. Fig. 139.—Diagrams II lustrating the for MATION OF THE SeMI LUNAR Valves.— (Ge genbaur.) ditim, but when the condensation of the muscje trabecnlce ^^'^^ endocardium apphes itself closely to the irregu- lar surface so formed, dipping into all the crevices between the trabeculse carnese and wrapping itself around the mus- culi papillares and chordae tendineae so as to form a com- plete lining of the inner surface of the myocardium. The aortic and pulmonary semilunar valves make their appearance, before the aortic bulb undergoes its longitudinal split- ting, as four tubercle-like thicken- ings of connective tissue situated on the inner wall of the bulb just where it arises from the ventricle. When the division of the bulb occurs, two of the thickenings, situated on opposite sides, are divided, so that both the pulmonary and systemic aortse receive three thickenings (Fig. 139). Later the thickening becomes hollowed out on the surfaces directed away from the ventricles and are so converted into the pouch-like valves of the adult. Changes in the Heart after Birth.—The heart wjien first formed lies far^forward in the neck region of the embryo, betweeii_the head and the anterior surface of the yolk-sac, and from this position it gradually recedes until it reaches its fina] position in the thorax. And not only does it thus change its relative position, but the direction of its axes also changes. For at an early stage the ventricles lie directly in front of (i- ^-j ventrad to) the^atria and not below them as in the adult heart, and this primitive condition is retained until the diaphragm has reached its final position (see p. 342). In addition to these changes in position, important changes also occur in the atrial septum after birth^DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. Throughout the entire period of fetal Hfe the foramen ovale persists, perniitting the blood returning from the placenta and entering the right atrium to pass directly across the left atrium, thence to the left ventricle, and so oi^t^to the body through the systemic aorta (see p. 284). At birth the lungs begin to function and the placental cir- culation is cut off, so that the ,right atrium receives only venous blood and the left only arterial; a persistence of the foramen ovale beyond this period would be injurious, since it would permit of a mixture of the arterial and venous bloods, and, consequently, it closes completely soon after birth. The closure is made possible by the fact that during the growth of the heart in size the portion of the atrial septum which is between the edge of the foramen ovale and the dorsal wall of the atrium increases in width, so that the foramen is carried further and further away from the dorsal wall of the atrium and comes to be almost com- pletely overlapped by the annulus of Vieussens (Fig. 133). This process continuing, the dorsal portion of the atrial septum finally overlaps the free edge of the annulus, and after birth the fusion of the overlapping surfaces takes place and the foramen is completely closed. In a large percentage (25 to 30 per cent.) of individuals the fusion of the surfaces of the septum and annulus is not com- plete, so that a slit-like opening persists between the two atria. This, however, does not allow of any mingling of the blood in the two cavities, since when the atria contract the pressure of the blood on both sides will force the overlapping folds to- gether and so practically close the opening. Occasionally the growth of the dorsal portion of the septum is imperfect or is inhibited, in which case closure of the foramen ovale is Im- possible. The Development of the Arterial System.—It has been seen that the formation of the blood-vessels begins in the extra-embryonic splanchnic mesoderm surrounding the yolk- sac and extends thence toward the embryo. The two orig-2 54 DEVEL0P1VJ.ENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. inal oniphalo-mesenteric arteries, entering the body of the embryo along the yolk-stalk, makejheir way_ to. the dorsal ^AlL^li^'^^ abdomen, and, growing forward and backward, give rise to two longitudinal stems, the representatives of Fig. 140.—Reconstruction of Embryo of 2.6 mm. Amnion; B, belly-stalk; E, optic evagination; H, heart; Mn, man- dibular process; 0, auditory capsule; om, omphalo-mesenteric vein; V, umbilical vein; Y, yolk-stalk.— (His.) the dorsal aorta. From near the posterior ends of these there arise at an early stage two branches, which pass out along the allantois into the belly-stalk and so to the chorionicDEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. villi, forming the allantoidean or umbilical arteries, while anteriorly each aorta sends 'branches ventrally in tjieanterior branchiararches, and these^jmitingJiige^ along theJoor_of the pharynx to become conjinuouswiththe aorticT)ulb_(Fig. 140). Later the two dorsal__aortaeJuse tnp^pthet^as far forward asthej;egion_ofJhe^^ cervicjj. segment_ta_iQrm a sing]^Jjru_nl^( Fig. 141), and the left om-^ phalo-mesenteric artery disappears, the right one persisting to form the superior mesenteric artery of the adult. it will be convenient to consider first the history of the vessels which pass ventrally in the branchial arches. Altogether, six of these vessels are de- veloped, the fifth being rudimentary and transi- tory, and when fully formed they have an ar- rangement which may be understood from the diagram (Fig. 141). This arrangement represents a condi- tion which is permanent in the lower vertebrates. In the fishes the respiration is performed by means of gills devel- oped upon^ tjieJ)ranchial arches, and the heart is an organ which receives venous blood from the body and pumps it^to the gills, in which it becomes arterialized and is then collected into the dorsal aortas, which distribute it to the body. But a' Fig. 141.—Diagram Illustrating THE Primary Arrangement of THE Branchial Arch Vessels. a, aorta; ab, aortic bulb; ec, external carotid; ic, internal carotid; sc, subclavian; I-VI, branchial arch vessels.256 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. in terrestrial animals, with the loss of the gills and the devel- opment of the lungs as respiratory organs, the capillaries of the gills disappear and the afferent and efferent branchial vessels become continuous, the condition represented in the diagram resulting. But this condition is merely temporary in the mammalia and numerous changes occur in the arrangement of the vessels before the adult plan is realized. The first change is a disappearance of the vessel of the first arch, thejventral stem from which it arose being continued forward to form the temporal arteries, giving off near the point where the branchial vessel originally arose a branch which represents the internal maxillary artery in part, and possibly also a sec- ond branch which represents the external maxillary (His). A little later the second branchial vessel also degenerates (Fig. 142), a branch arising from the ventral trunk near its former origin, possibly representing the future lingual artery (His), and then the portion of the dorsal trunk which intervenes between the third and fourth braiichial vessels vanishes, so that the dorsal trunk anterior to the third branchial arch is cut off from its connection with the dorsal aorta and forms, together with the vessel of the third arch, the internal carotid, while the veiitral trunk, anterior to the point of origin of the third vessel, becomes the exter- n"al carotid, and the portion which intervenes between the third and fourth vessels becomes the common carotid (Fig. 143)- The rudimentary fifth vessel, like the first and second, disappears, but the fourth persists to form the aortic arch, there being at this stage of development two complete aortic arches. From the sixth vessel a branch arises which passes backward to the lungs, forming the pulmonary artery, and the portion of the vessel of the right side which intervenes between this and the aortic arch disappears, while the corre-DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. sponcHng- portion of the left side persists until after birth, {ormmg the diictus arteriostis {ductus Botalli) (Fig. 143). When the longitudinal division of the_ aortic bulb occurs (p724^)V the_septumJs_sq. arranged as to place the sixth arch in communication with the right ventricle and the remaining vessels in connection with the left ventricle, the only direct communication between the systemic and pul- FiG. 142.—Arterial System of an Embryo of 10 mm. Ic, Internal carotid; P, pulmonary artery; Ve, vertebral artery; III to VI, persistent branchial vessels.— {His.) monary vessels being by way of the ductus arteriosus, whose significance will be explained later (p. 284). One other change is still necessary before the vessels acquire the arrangement which they possess during fetal life, and this consists in the disappearance of the lower por- tion of the right aortic arch (Fig. 143), sq^ that the left arch alone forms the connection between the heart and the dorsal jiorta. The upper part of the right'aortic arch pei^^ sists to form the proximal part of the right subclavian artery, the portion of the ventral trunk which unites the arch with the aortic bulb becoming the innominate artery. 23.258 DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. From the entire length of the thoracic aorta, and in the embryo from the aortic arches, lateral branches arise corre- sponding to each seg- tCc ment and accompany- ing the segmental nerves. The first of these branches arises just below the point of union of the vessel of the sixth arch with the dorsal trunk and accompanies the hypo- glossal nerve (Fig. 144, /z), and that which ac- companies the seventh cervical nerve arises just above the point of union of the two aortic arches (Fig. 144, s), and_ extends out into the limb bud, forming the subclavian artery.* Further downtsvelve pairs of lateral branches, arising from the tho- racic portion of the aorta, represent the in- tercostal arteries, and still lower four pairs of arteries Fig. 143.—Diagram Illustrating the Changes in the Branchial Arch Vessels. a, aorta; da, ductus arteriosus; ec, ex- ternal carotid; ic, internal carotid; pa, pulmonary artery; sc, subclavian; I-VI, aortic arch vessels. 1 u m b a r artcnes are formed, the fifth lumbars being represented by_two large branches, the common iliacs, which seem from their size to * It must be remembered that the right subclavian of the adult is more than equivalent to the left, since it represents the fourth branchial vessel + a portion of the dorsal longitudinal trunk -f- the lateral seg- mental branch (see Fig. 142).DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. 259 be the continuations of the aorta rather than branches of. it, The"true continuation of the aorta is, however, the middle sacral artery," which represents in. a degenerated form the caudal prolongation of the aorta of other mam- mals, and, like this, gives off lateral branches corresponding to the sacral segments. In addition to the seg- mental lateral branches arising from the aorta, visceral branches, which have their origin rather from the ventral sur- face, also occur. In em- bryos of 5 mm. these branches are arranged in a segmental manner, a median unpaired vessel ICo, JM nac;ci-no- to the rhp-p^tive ^^^^ I44-—Diagram showing the Re- passmg to tne aigestive lations of the Lateral Branches tract and a pair of more to the Aortic Arches. EC, External carotid; h, lateral branch accompanying the hypoglossal nerve; IC, internal carotid; ICo, intercostal; IM, internal mammary; s, sub- clavian; V, vertebral; / to VllI, lateral cervical branches; i, 2, lateral thoracic branches. lateral branches passing to the mesonephros (see p. 363) correspond- ing to each of the paired branches passing to the body wall. As development proceeds the great majority of these visceral branches disappear, certain of the lateral ones persisting, however, to form the renal, internal sper- matic, and hypogastric arteries of the adult, while the unpaired_ branches are represented only by the coeliac artery and the superior and inferior mesenteries. The superior mesenteric artery is the adult representative ofDEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. 26o the omphalo-mesenteric artery of the embryo and arises from the aorta by two, three or more roots, which corre- spond to the fifth, fourth and higher thoracic segments!^ Later, all but the lowest of the roots disappear and the per- sisting one undergoes a downward migration in accordance with_^he_ recession of the diaphragm and viscera (see p. 342), until in embryos of 17 mm. it lies opposite the^rst lumbar segment. Similarly the coeliac and inferior mesen- teric arteries, which when first recognizable in embryos of 9^ mm. correspond with the fourth and twelfth thoracic segments respectively, also undergo a secondary downward migration, the coeliac artery in embryos of 17 mm. arising opposite the twelfth thoracic and the inferior mesenteric opposite the third lumbar segment. One of the pairs of visceral branches becomes especially enlarged to form the umbilical arteries of the embryo. It seems probable that, like the omphalo-mesenterics, each of these arteries primarily arises from. the aorta by several segmental roots, but in the earliest stage in which it has been observed it arises by a single root from the third lum- bar segment (Fig. 145, U'). Each artery passes forward along the sides of the intestine, ventral to the Wolffian duct (see p. 361), and is thence continued out along the allantois to the chorionic villi. Later this original stem is joined, not far from its origin, by what appears to be the lateral somatic branch of the fifth lumbar segment, whereupon the proximal part of the original umbilical vessel degenerates and the umbilical comes to arise from the somatic branch, whicli_^ the common iliac artery of adult anatomy (Fig. 145). Hence it is that this vessel in the adult gives origin both to branches such as the external iliac, the gluteal, the sciatic and the internal pudendal, which are distributed to the body walls or their derivatives, and to others, such asDEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. 261 the vesical, inferior hiemorrhoidal and uterine, which are distributed to the pelvic viscera. At birth the portions of the umbiHcal arteries beyond the umbiHcus are severed when the umbilical cord is cut, and their intra-embryonic portions, which have been called the hypogastric arteries, quickly undergo a reduction in size. Their proximal portions re- main functional as the superior vesical arteries, carrying blood to the urinary bladder, but the portions which intervene between the bladder and the umbilicus become re- duced to solid cords, forming the obliterated hypogastric arteries of • adult anatomy. In its general plan, accordingly, the arterial system may be regarded as consisting of a pair of longitudinal vessels which fuse together throughout the greater portion of their length to form the dorsal aorta, from which there arise segmentally arranged lateral somatic branches and ventral and lateral visceral branches. With the exception of the aortic trunks (together with their anterior continuations, the internal carotids) and the external carotids, no longitudinal arteries exist primarily. In the adult, however, several longitudinal vessels, such as the vertebrals, internal mam- mary, and epigastric arteries, exist. The formation of Fig. 145.—Diagram Illustrating the Development of the Umbilical Ar- teries. A, Aorta; CIl, common iliac; EJl, ex- ternal iliac; G, gluteal; ///, internal iliac; IP, internal pudic; IV, inferior vesical; Sc, sciatic; U,^ umbilical; U'. primary proximal portion of the um- bilical ; wd. Wolffian duct.DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. these secondary longitudinal trunks is the result of a devel- opment between adjacent vesseir^l anastomoses,' which become larger and more important blood-channels than the original vessels^ At an__early stage each of the lateral branches of the dorsal aorta gives off a twig which passes forward to anas- tomose with a backwardly directed twig from the next anterior lateral branch, so as to form a longitudinal chain of anastomoses along each~side of the neck. In the earliest stage at present known thej:hain^ starts from the lateral branch corresponding to the first cervical (suboccipital) seg- ment and extends forward into the skull through the fora- men magnum, terminatingby anastomosing with the internal carotid. To this original chain other links are added from each of the succeeding cervical lateral branches as far back as the seventh (Figs. 146 an3~T44). But in the meantime the recession of the heart toward the thorax has begun, with the result that the common carotid stems are elongated and the aortic_arches are apparently shortened so that the sub- clavian arises on the left side almost opposite. the_.point where the aorta was joined by the sixth branchial vessel As this apparent shortening proceeds, the various lateral branches which give rise to the chain of anastomoses,_with the exception of the seventh, disappear in their proximal portions and the chain becomes an independent stem, the vertebral artery, arjsing from the seventh lateral branch, which is the subclavian. The recession of the heart is continued until it lies below the level of the upper intercostal arteries, and tjie upper two of these, together with the last cervical branch on each side, lose their connection with the dorsal aorta, and, send- ing off anteriorly and posteriorly anastomosing twigs, de- velop a short longitudinal stem, the superior intercostal, which opens into, the subclavian.DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIAL SYSTEM. 263 The intercostals and their abdominal representatives, the kimbars and iHacs, also give rise to longitudinal anastomos- ing twigs near their ventral ends (Fig. 147), and these increasing in size give rise to the internal mammary and Fig. 146.—The Development of the Vertebral Artery in a Rabbit Embryo of Twelve Days. IIIA.B to VIA.B, Branchial arch vessels; Ap, pulmonary artery. A.v.c.h and A.v.cv, cephalic and cervical portions of the vertebral artery; A.s, subclavian; C.d and C.v internal and external carotid; ISp.G, spinal ganglion.— (Hochstetter.) inferioj:^js:pig.astric a.v^^^ which together form continuous stems extending from the subclavians to the external iliacsDEVELOPMENf OF" ARtKrIeS OF LIMBS. 264 in the ventral abdominal walls. The superficial epigastrics and other secondary longitudinal vessels are formed in a similar manner. The Development of the Arteries of the Limbs.— Much information is still required before the complete his- tory of the development of the arteries of the limbs can be written, and at present one must rely largely upon the facts PiQ 147.—Embryo of 13 mm. showing the Mode of Development OF the Internal Mammary and Deep Epigastric Arteries.— . iMall.) of comparative anatomy and on the anomalies which occur in the human body for indications of what the early devel- opment is likely to be. So far as embryological observa- tions go, they confirm the conclusions derived from such sources. Notwithstanding the fact that the limbs are formed by outgrowths from_^several segments, there is as yet no evi- dence to, show That a corresponding number of segmentalDEVELOPMENT OF ARTERIES OF LIMBS. 265 arteries take part in the development of their blood-supply, but it seems that in both limbs the entire arterial system is'formed from a single lateral branch, that of the upper limb, the_subclavian, corresponding to the seventh cervical segment, while that of the lower limb, the common iliac, is probably the fifth lumbar branch. In the simplest arrange- ment the subclavian is continued as a single trunk along the axis of the anterior limb as far as the carpus, where it divides into digital branches for the fingers. In its course through the forearm it lies in the interval between the radius and ulna, resting on the interosseous membrane, and in this part of its course it may be termed the arteria interossea. In the second_stage a new artery accompajiying the median nerve appears, arising from the main stem or brachial artery a little below the elbow-joint. This may be termed the arteria mediana, and as it develops the arteria interossea gradually diminishes in size, becoming finally the small volar interosseous artery of the adult (Fig. 148), and the median, unifinp with its lower end, takes from it the digital branches and becomes the principal stem of the forearm. ^ third stage is then ushered in by the appearance of a branch from the median which forms the arteria ulnaris, and this, passing down the ulnar side of the forearm, unites at the wrist with the median to form a superficial palmar arch from which the digital branches arise. A fourth stage is marked by the diminution of the median artery until it finally appears to be a small branch^_f the interosseous, and at the same time there develops from the brachial, at about the middle of the upper arm, what is known as the arteria radialis superficialis (Fig. 148, rs). This extends down the radial side of the forearm, following the course oF the radialjierve, and at the wrist passes upon the dorsal surface of the hand to form^the dorsal digital arteries of the thumb and index finger. At first this artery takes no part in the 24266 DEVELOPMENT OF ARTERIES OF LIMBS. formation of the palmar arches, but later it gives rise to the superficial volar branch, which usually unites with the superlicicil arch, while from its dorsal portion a perforating branch develops which passes between the first and second nietacarpal bones and unites with a deep branch of the ulnar rs m Fig. 148.—Diagrams showing an Early and a Late Stage in the Development of the Arteries of the Arm. h, Brachial; i, interosseous; m, median; r, radial; rs, superficial radial; u, ulnar. to form the deep arch. The fifth or adult stage is reached by the development from the brachial below the elbow of a branch (Fig. 148, r) which passes downward and out- ward to unite with the superficial radial, whereupon the267 DEVELOPMENT OF ARTERIES OF LIMBS. Upper portion of that artery degenerates untiljt is repre- sented onjy by a branch to the biceps muscle (Schwalbe), while the lower portion persists as the adult radial. The various anomalies seen in the arteries of the forearm are, as a rule, due to the more or less complete persistence of one or other of the stages described above, what is described, for instance, as the high branching of the brachial being the persistence of the superficial radial. In the kg;^there is a noticeable difference in the arrange- ment of the arteries from what occurs in the arm, in that the principal artery of the thigh, the femoral, does not accompany the principal nerve, the sciatic. This difference is apparently secondary, but, as in the case of the upper limb, it is necessary to rely largely on the facts of com- parative anatomy and on anomalies which occur in the human body for an idea of the probable development of the arteries of the lower limb. It has already been;seen that the cunimon iliac artery is to be regarded as a lateral branch of the dorsal aorta, and in the simplest condition of the limb arteries rts^coiitinuation, the anterior division of the hypo- gastric, passes down the leg as a well-developed sciatic artery as far as the ankle (Fig. 149, s). At the knee it occupies the position of the popliteal of adult anatomy, and below the knee gives off a branch con-esponding to the ante- rior tibial (at) which, passing fqi-ward to the extensor sur- ^^^^.pX.the leg, quickly loses itseli^ijij;h extensor muscles. The main artery continues clownward on the interosseous membrane, and some distance above the ankle divides into., a strong anterior and a weaker posterior branch; the fornier perforates_.tlie. membrane and is CQiitiiiued down the exten- sor surface of the leg to form the lower part of the anterior tibial and the dorsalis pedis arteries, while the latter, pass- ing upon the plantar surface of the foot, is lOst in the plantar muscles. At this stage the external iliac is a secondaryDEVELOPMENT OF ARTERIES OF LIMBS. 268 branch of the common iHac, being but poorly developed and not extending as far as the knee. In the second stage the external iliac artery increases in size until it equals the sciatic, and it now penetrates the adductor magnus muscle and unites with the popliteal por- tion of the sciatic. Before doing this, however, it gives off dp pe Fig. 149 Diagrams f at n c at, Illustrating Stages in the Development of THE Arteries of the Leg. Anterior tibial; dp, dorsalis pedis; /, femoral; p, popliteal; pe, peroneal; pt, posterior tibial; s, sciatic (inferior gluteal); sa, saphenous. a strong braiich (sa) which accompanies th^Jong saphenous nerve down the inner side of thgjeg^and, passing behind the internal malleolus, extends upon the ]:)1antar surface of the foot, where it gives rise to the digital branches. From this arrangement the adult condition may be derive^Jjy theDEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. 269 continued increase in size of the external iliac ajid its cmv tiniiation, the femoral (/), accom2anied by a reduction of tlie_upper portion of the sciatic and its separation from its poplileal portion (p) to form the inferior gluteal artery of the adult. The continuation of the popliteal down the leg is the peroneal artery (pe) and the upper perforating branch of this unites with the lower one to, form a_continuous ante- rior tibial, the lower connection of which with the peroneal persists in part as the anterior peroneal artery. A new branch arises from the upper part of the peroneal and passes down the back of the leg to unite with the lower part of the arteria saphena, forming the posterior tibial artery (pt), and the upper part of the saphenous becomes much reduced, persisting as the superficial branch of the art, genu suprema and a rudimentary chain of anastomoses which accompany the long saphenous nerve. The Development of the Venous System.—The earli- est veins to develop are those which accompany the first- formed arteries, the omphalo-rnesenterics and umbiHcals, but it will be more convenient to consider first the veins which carry the blood from the body of the embryo back to the heart. These make their appearance, while the heartjs still in the pharyngeal region, as two pairs of longi- tudinal trunks, the anterior and posterior cardinal veins, into which lateral branches, arranged more or less seg- mentally, open. The anterior cardinals appear somewhat earlier than the posterior and form the internal jugular veins of adult anatomy. Each vein extends forward from the heart at the side of the notochord and is continued on the under siirface of the brain, lying medial to the roots of the cranial_nerves. Later sprouts arising from the vein form loops around the nerve roots and the portion of the loops formed by the original vein then disappear, so that the vessel now lies lateral to nerve roots, except in the case270 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. of the trigeminus, where the original vessel persists to forrn the cavernous sinus. From the vena capitis lateralis so formed three veins, an anterior, a middle and a posterior cerebral, pass to the brain, the, anterior cerebral together with the ophthalmic vein opening into the anterior end of the cavernous sinus, the middle cerebral into the posterior extremity of the same sinus and the posterior cerebral into Fig. ISO.—Reconstruction of the Head of a Human Embryo of 9 mm. SHOWING THE CeREBRAL VeINS. acv, anterior cerebral vein; au, auditory vesicle; cs, cavernous sinus; 'Fa, facial nerve; mcv, middle cerebral vein; pcv, posterior cere- bral vein; tr, trigeminal nerve; vcl, lateral cerebral vein.—(Ma//.) the vena capitis lateralis behind the ear vesicle (Fig. 150). The branches of the anterior cerebral vein extending over the cerebral hemispheres unite with their fellows of the opposite side to form a longitudinal trunk, the superior sagittal sinus, lying between the two cerebral hemisphere^DEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. 271 At first this sinus drains by way of the anterior cerebral vein (F^g. 151, but as the cerebral hemispheres increase irfsize it is gradually carried backward and makes connec- tions first with the middle cerebral and later with the pos- terior cerebral vein (Fig. 151, B and C), each of these becoming in turn the principal drainage of the sinus. The c Fig. 151.—Diagrams showing the Arrangement of the Cerebral Veins in Embryos of (A) the Fifth Week, (B) the Begin- ing of the Third Month and in (C) an Older Fetus. acVj anterior cerebral vein; cs, cavernous sinus; ils, inferior sagittal sinus; Inf. Pet., inferior petrosal sinus; Is, transverse sinus; ov, ophthalmic vein; sis, superior sagittal sinus; sps, spheno-parietal sinus; sr, straight sinus; ss, middle cerebral vein (Sylvian); sup. pet, superior petrosal sinus; th, torcular Herophili; v, trigeminal nerve; vca, anterior cerebral vein; vcl, lateral cerebral vein; vcni, middle cerebral vein; vcp, posterior cerebral vein; vg, vein of Galen; vj, internal jugular.— (Mall.) connections which join the veins to the sinus become the proxinTal portion of the transverse sinus, the posterior cere-2/2 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. itself becoming the distal portion, the middle cerebral vein becomes the superior petrosal sinus, while the anterior cerebral vein persists as the middle cerebral vein of adult anatomy (Fig. 151, C). Additional sprouts from the terminal portion of the superior sagittal sinus give rise to the straight and inferior sagittal sinuses, and, after the disappearance of the vena capitis lateralis, a new stem devel- ops between the cavernous and transverse sinuses, passing medial to the ear vesicle, and forms the inferior petrosal sinus (Fig. L51, C). This joins the transverse sinus at the jugular foramen and from this junction onwards the anterior cardinal vein may now be termed the internal jugu- lar vein. Passing backward from the jugular foramen the internal jugular veins unite with the posterior cardinals to form on each side a common trunk, the ductus Cuvieri, and then passing transversely toward the median line open into the sides of the sinus venosus. So long as the heart retains its original position in the pharyngeal region the jugular is a short trunk receiving lateral veins only from the upper- most segments of the neck and from the occipital segments, the remaining segmental veins opening into the inferior cardinals. As the heart recedes, however, the jugulars become more and more elongated and the cervical lateral veins shift their communication from the cardinals to the jugulars, until, when the subclavians have thus shifted, the jugulars become much larger than the cardinals. When the sinus venosus is absorbed into the wall of the right auricle, the course of the left Cuvierian duct becomes a little longer than that of the right, and from the left jugu- lar, at the point where it is joined by the left subclavian, "atranch arises which extends obliquely across to join the right jugular, forming the left innominate vein. When this is established, the connection between the left jugularDEVELOPMENT OF TtlE VENOUS SYSTEM. 2/3 and_C_iivierian duct is dissolyed, the blood from the left side of the head and neck and from the left subclavian vein pass- ing over to empty into the right jugular, whose lower end, together with the right Cuvierian duct, thus becomes the superior vena cava. The left Cuvierian duct persists, form- ing with the left horn of the sinus venosus the coronary sinus. Fig. 152.—Diagrams showing the Development of the Superior Vena Cava. o, Azygos vein; cs, coronary sinus; ej, external jugular; h, hepatic vein; ij, internal jugular; inr and inl, right and left innominate veins; s, subclavian; vci and vcs, inferior and superior venae cavse. The external jugular vein develops somewhat later than the internal. The facial vein, whjch primarily forms the principal affluent of this stem, passes at first into the skull along with the fifth nerve and communicates with the in- ternal jugular system, but later this original communica- tion is broken and the facial vein, uniting with other super- ficial veins, passes over the jaw and extends down the neck as the external jugular. Later still the facial anastomoses with the ophthalmic at the inner angle of the eye and also makes connections with the internal jugular just after it has_crpsse_d thejawj and so_the^ adult condition is acquired.2/4 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. It is interesting to note that in many of the lower mammals the external jugular becomes of much greater importance than the internal, the latter in some forms, indeed, eventually disap- pearing and the blood from the interior of the skull emptying by means of anastomoses which have developed into the exter- nal jugular system. In man the primitive condition is re- tained, but indications of a transference of the intracranial blood to the external jugular are seen in the emissary veins. The posterior cardinal veins, or, as they may more simply be termed, the cardinals, extend backward from their union with the jugulars along the sides of the vertebral column, receiving veins from the mesentery and also from the vari- ous lateral segmental veins of the neck and trunk regions, with the exception of that of the first cervical segment which opens into the jugular. Later, however, as already described (p. 273), the cervical veins shift to the jugulars, as do also the first and second thoracic (intercostal) veins, but the remaining intercostals, together with the lumbars and sacrals, continue to open into the cardinals. In addi- tion, the cardinals receive in early stages the veins from the primitive kidneys (n:iesonephros), which are exceptionally large in the human embryo, but when they are replaced later on by the permanent kidneys (metanephros) their afferent veins undergo a reduction in number and size, and this, together with the shifting of the upper lateral veins, produces a marked diminution in the size of the cardinals. The changes by which they acquire their final arrangement are, however, so intimately associated with the development of the inferior vena cava that their description may be con- veniently postponed until the history of the omphalo-mesen- teric and umbilical veins has been presented. The omphah-:inesenteric veins are two in number, a right and a left, and pass in along the yolk-stalk until they reach the embryonic intestine, along the sides of which they pass forw-ard to unite with the corresponding umbilical veins.DEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. These are represented iii^tlie belly-stalk by a single venous trmik which, when it reaches the body of the embryo, divides J^nto two stems which pass forward, one on each side of the^umbilicus, and thence on each side of the median line of the ventral abdominal wall, to form with the corre- sponding omphalo-mesenteric veins common trunks which open into the ductus Cuvieri. As the liver develops it comes into intimate relation with the omphalo-mesenteric veins, which receive numerous branches from its substance and, indeed, seem to break up into a network (Fig. 153, A) Fig. 153.—Diagrams Illustrating the Transformations of the Omphalomesenteric and Umbilical Veins. £>.C, Ductus Cuvieri; D.V.A, ductus venosus; V.o.m.d and V.o.m.s, right and left omphalo-mesenteric veins; V.u.d and V.u.s right ^nd left umbilical \ems.— (Hochstetter.) ' traversing the liver substance and uniting again to form two stems which represent the original continuations of the omphalo-mesenterics. From the point where the common trunk formed by the right omphalo-mesenteric and umbili- cal veins opens into the Cuvierian duct a new vein develops, passing downward and to the left to unite with the left276 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. omphalo-mesenteric; this is the ductus venosus (Fig. 153, B, DVA). In the meantiiiTe three cross-connections h^ye developed between the two omphalo-mesenteric veins, two of which pass ventral and the other dorsal to the intestine, so that the latter is surrounded by two venous loops (Fig. 154, A), and a connection is developed between each um- bilical vein and the corresponding omphalo-mesenteric (Fig. 153, B), that of the left side being the larger and uniting with the omphalo-mesenteric just where it is joined by the Fig 1S4—A, The Venous Trunks of an Embryo of 5 mm. seen from THE Ventral Surface; B, Diagram Illustrating the Trans- formation TO THE Adult Condition. Vcd and Vcs, right and left superior vense cavse; Vf, jugular vein; V om omphalo-mesenteric vein; V{y, vena porta; Vu, umbilical vein (lower part) ; Vu', umbilical vein (upper part) ; Vud and Vus, right and left umbilical veins (lower parts).—(Ht^.) ductus venosus so as to seem to.be^the continuation of .this vessel (Fig. 153, C). When these connections are com- plete, the upper portions of the umbilical veins degenerate (Fig. 154), and now the right side of the lower of the two omphalo-mesenteric loops which surround the intestine dis-277 DEVELOPMENT OF TIIE VENOUS SYSTEM. appears, as_ does also tha^ portion of the left side of the uppeT^loop which intervenes between the middle cross-con- nection and the ductus venosus, and so there is formed from the omphalo-mesenteric veins the vena porta. While these changes have been progressing the^ight_ umbilical vem, originallyjhe larger of the two (Fig. 153, A and B, V.u.d), has become very much reduced in size and, losing its connection with the left vein at the umbilicus, forms a vein of the ventral abdominal wall in which the blood now flows from above downward. The left umbili- cal now forms the only route for the return of blood from the placenta, and appears to be the direct continuation of the ductus venosus (Fig. 154, C), iato which open the hepatic veins, returning the blood distributed by the portal vein to the substance of the liver. Returning now to the posterior cardinal veins, it has been found that in the rabbit the branches which come to them from the mesentery anastomose longitudinally to form a vessel lying parallel and slightly ventral to each cardinal. These may be termed the subcardinal veins (Lewis), and in their earliest condition they o^en at either end into the corresponding cardinal, with which they are also united by numerous cross-branches. Later, in rabbits of 8.8 mm., these cross-branches begin to disappear and give place to a large cross-branch situated immediately below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, and at the same point a cross-branch between the two subcardinals also develops. The portion of the right subcardinal which is anterior to the cross-connection now rapidly enlarges and unites with the ductus venosus about where the hepatic veins open into that vessel (Fig. 155, A), and the portion of each posterior cardinal immediately above the entrance of the renal veins degenerates, so that all the blood received by the posterior portions of the cardinals is returned to the heart by way of278 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. tlie right subcardinal, it_s_cross-connections, and the upper part of the ductus venosus. When this is accompHshed the lower portions of the sub- cardinals disappear, while the portions above the large cross- connection persist, greatly diminished in size, as the supra- renal veins (Fig. 155, B). In the earjy_stages the veins which drain the posterior Fig. 155.—Diagrams Illustrating the Development of the Inferior Vena Cava. The cardinal veins and ductus venosus are black, the subcardinal sys- tem blue, and the supracardinal yellow. cs, coronary sinus; dv, ductus venosus; il, iliac vein; r, renal; s, internal spermatic; scl, ' subclavian; sr, suprarenal; va^ azygos; vha, hemiazygos; vi, in- nominate; vj, internal jugular. abdominal walls empty into the posterior cardinals, and later they form, in the region of the kidney on each side, a longitudinal anastomosis which opens at either extremity into the posterior cardinal. The ureter thus becomes sur-279 DEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. rounded by a venous ring, the dorsal limb of which is formed by the new longitudinal anastomosis, which has been termed the supracardinal vein (McClure and Hunt- ington), while the ventral limb is formed by a portion of the posterior cardinal (Fig. 155, B). Still later the ven- tral limb of the loop disappears and the dorsal supracardinal limb replaces a portion of the more primitive posterior car- dinal. An anastomosis now develops between the right and left cardinals at the point where the iliac veins open into them (Fig. 155, B), and the portion of the left cardinal which intervenes between this anastomosis and the entrance of the internal spermatic vein disappears, the remainder of it, as far forward as the renal vein, persisting as the upper part of the left internal spermatic vein, which thus comes to open into the renal vein instead of into the vena cava, as does the corresponding vein of the right side of the bod}'- (Fig. 155, C, s). The renal veins originally open into the cardinals at the point where these are joined by the large cross-connection, and when the lower part of the left car- dinal disappears, this cross-connection forms the proximal part of the left renal vein, which consequently receives the left suprarenal (Fig. 155, C). The observations upon which the above description is based have been made upon the rabbit, but it seems jrnb- ablejrom the partial observations that have been made that similar changes occur also in the human embrvo. It will be noted from what has been said that the inferior yena cava is a composite vessel, consisting^ of at least four ele- ments: (i) the proximal part of the ductus venosus; (2) the anterior part of the right subcardinal; (3) the right supracardina]j_and (4) the posterior part of the right cardinal. Recent observations by McClure and Huntington on the development of the veins of the cat show, however, thatDEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. 28o in this form the process is somewhat different from what obtains in the rabbit. The differences depend principally upon the greater development of the supracardinal veins, these vessels extending far anterior to the subcardinal cross- connection, and forming the dorsal limb of a very wide ureteric venous ring (Fig. 156, A). During development the two supracardinal limbs of the ureteric ring approach Pig 156—Diagrams Illustrating the Development of the Inferior Vena Cava in the Cat. The cardinal veins and ductus venosus are black, the subcardinal sys- tem bkie, and the supracardinal yellow. cs, coronary sinus; dv, ductus venosus; il, iliac vein; r, renal; s, internal spermatic; scl, subclavian; sr, suparenal; va, azygos; vi, innominate; vj, internal jugular (adapted from McClure). each other, and finally unite in the median line, whereupon both right and left post-renal portions of the cardinals dis- appear and the post-renal portion of the vena cava is formed by the fused supracardinals (Fig. 156, B and C). The complicated development of the inferior vena cava nat- urally gives rise to numerous anomalies of the vein due toDEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. 2»I inhibitions of its development. These anomalies affect espe- cially the post-renal portion, a persistence of both cardinals (interpreting the conditions in the terms of what occurs in the rabbit) giving rise to a double post-renal cava, or a persistence of the left cardinal and the disappearance of the right to a vena cava situated on the left side of the vertebral column and crossing to the right by way of the left renal vein. So, too, the occurrence of accessory renal veins passing dorsal to the ureter is explicable in the supposition that they represent por- tions of the supracardinal system of veins. It has already been noted that thej3ortions of the pos- terior cardinals immediately anterior to the entrance of the renal veins disappear. The upper par^ of the ri^ht vein persists, however, and becomes the vena asygos of the adult, while the upper portion of the left vein sends a cross-branch over to unite with the azygos and then separates from the coronary sinus to form the vena hemiazygos. At least this is what is described as occurring in the rabbit. In the cat, however, only the very uppermost portion of the right pos- terior cardinal persists and the greater portion of the azygos and perhaps the entire hemiazygos vein is formed from the prerenal portions of the supracardinal veins, the right one joining on to the small persisting upper portion of the right posterior cardinal, while the cross-connection between the hemiazygos and azygos represents one of the originally numerous cross-connections between the supracardinals. The ascending lumbar veins, frequently described as the commencements of the azygos veins, are in reality secondary formations developed by the anastomoses of anteriorly and posteriorly directed branches of the lumbar veins. The Development of the Veins of the Limbs.—The devel- opment of the limb veins of the human embryo requires further investigation, but from a comparison of what is known with what has been observed in rabbit embryos it may be presumed that the changes which take place are somewhat as follows: In the anterior extremity the blood 25 ^DEVELOPMENT OF THE VENOUS SYSTEM. 282 brought to the limb is collected by a vein which passes dis- tally along the radial border of the limb bud, around its di_staljx)rder, and proximally along its ulnar border to open into the anterior cardinal _vein; this_2S the primary ulnar veuL__ Later a second vein grows out from the external jugular along the radial border of the limb, representing the cepJmlic vein of the adult, and on its appearance the digital veins, which were formed from the primary ulnar vein, become connected with it, and the distal portion of the pri- mary ulnar vein disappears. Its_2roximal portion persists, however, to form the basilic vein, from which the brachial vein and its continuation, the ulnar vein, are developed, while the radial vein develops as an outgrowth from the cephalic, which at an early stage secures an opening into the axillary vein, its original communication with the exter- nal jugular forming the jugulo-cephalic vein. In the lower limb a primary fibular vein, exactly compar- able to the primary ulnar of the arm, surrounds the distal border of the limb-bud and passes up its fibular border to open with the posterior cardinaWein. The iurther devel- opment in the lower limb differs considerably, however, from that of the upper limb. From the.^£rmiary fibidaryei^^^ an anterior tibial vein grows out, which receives the digital branches from the toes, and from the posterior cardinal, anterior to the point where the primary fibular opens into jt, a vein grows down the tibial side of the leg, forming the long saphenous vein. From this the femoral vein is formed and from it the posterior tibial vein is continued down the lee. An anastomosis is formed between the femoral and the primary fibular veins at the level of the knee and the proximal portion of the latter vein then becomes greatly reduced, while its distal portion possibly persists as the small saphenous vein (Hochstetter). The Pulmonary Veins.—The development of the pul- 1THE FETAL CIRCULATION. 283 monary veins has already been described in connection with the development of the heart (see p. 247). The Fetal Circidajion.--During ietal Hfe while the pla- centa is the sole organ in which occur the changes in the Fig. 157.—The Fetal Circulation. ao, Aorta; a.pu, pulmonary artery; au, umbilical artery; da, ductus arteriosus; dv, ductus venosus; int, intestine; vci and vcs, inferior and superior vena cava; vh, hepatic vein; vp, vena portae; v.pu, pulmonary vein; vu, umbilical vein.— {From Kollmann.) blood on which the nutrition of the embryo depends, the course of the blood is necessarily somewhat different from what obtains in the child after birth. Taking the placenta284 •THE FETAL CIRCULATION. as thejtarting-point, the blood passes along the umbilical vein to enter the body of the fetus at the umbilicus, whence it passes forward in the free edge of the anterior mesentery (see p. 341) until it reaches the liver. Here, owing to the anastomoses between the umbilical and omphalo-mesenteric veins, a portion of the blood traverses the substance of the liver to open by the hepatic veins into the inferior vena cava, while the remainder passes on through the ductus venosus to the cava, the united streams opening into the right atrium. This blood, whose purity is only slightly reduced by mixture with the blood returning from the infe- rior vena cava, is prevented from passing into the right ven- tricle by the Eustachian valve, which directs it to the fora- men ovale, and through this it passes into the left atrium, thence to the left ventricle, and so out by the systemic aorta. The blood which has been sent to the head, neck, and upper extremities is returned by the superior vena cava also into the right atrium, but this descending stream opens into the atrium to the right of the annulus jof Vieussens (see Fig. 135) and j>asses directly to the right ventricle without mingling to any great extent with the blood returning by way of the inferior cava. From the right ventricle this blood passes out by the pulmonary artery; but the lungs at this period are collapsed and in no condition to receive any great amount of blood, and so the stream passes by way of the ductus arteriosus into the systemic aorta, meeting there the placental blood just below the point where the left subclavian artery is given off. From this point onward the aorta contains only mixed blood, and this is distributed to the walls of the thorax and abdomen and to the lungs and abdominal viscera, the greater part of it, however, passing off in the hypogastric arteries and so out again to the placenta. It will be perceived that although no portion of the bodyDEVELOPMEiSrt OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 285 receives absolutely pure placental blood, yet thej[ualit}L_o^^ thatwhichjs_s^ JieartUiead^neck^ and upper limbs is j_-nuch_better than Jliat di>tributed_b^tlie HranclieTansin^lrom the aorta below the umon_oi-tlie duHus^rtei^us! Hence i£isjdiatlhe anterior portions of thefetuTare much better developed than the posterior^ ~~At iDirth the lungs at once assume their functions, and | on the cutting of the umbilical cord all communication with ^ the placenta ceases. Shortly after birth the foramen ovale closes more or less perfectly, and the ductus arteriosus di- ' minishes in size as the piilmonary arteries increase, and ' becomes eventually converted into a fibrous cord. The ( hypogastric arteries diminish greatly, and after they have i passed the bladder are also reduced to fibrous cords, a fate 1 likewise shared by the umbilical vein, which becomes con- 1 verted into the round ligament of the liver. The Development of the Lymphatic System.—It has already been seen (p. 237) that theJ3[^phocytes^ first make their appearance in the tissues surrounding the early blood- ^.Zl^ ^ vessels, but opinions differ as to their exaclorigm. Accord- ^y*^"^ ing to some observers, they are formed by modification of mesenchyme cells, while "ptHers believe th"a1rtheY3M§_gvL dence that the lymphocytes of the intestinal and tonsillar lymph-nodes are derived from the intestinal and tonsillar epithelium, and quite recently it has been maintained that the epithelial cells which form the thymus body in fishes are directly transformed into lymphocytes. Which view will prove correct must be left for future observations to decide. The observations upon the origin of the lymphatic vessels ^ are at present somewhat discordant. According to the h^^" observations of Sabin, the vessels are first distinguishable in pig embryos of 14.5 cm. as two small sacs or lympK. hearts, which arjse^ one on each side, as outgrowths from near the junction of the subclavian and__jiigular veins^ theDEVELOPMENT OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. Opening of the sac into the veins being guarded by a valve due to the obHque direction taken by the outgrowth. From each lymph heart branches, whjch anastomose and radiate in all directions, grow outward toward the skin, which they reach in embryos of about i8 mm., and in later stages con- tinue, to extend in a radiating manner until they form a sub- cutaneous network over the anterior half of the body. In the meantime the lymph hearts have separated from their points of origin (Fig. 158, A, ALH), with which, however, they remain connected by a duct, and from this a branch grows backward, following the line of the vagus nerve (Fig. 158, A, TD). The branch on the left side soon meets with the aorta and, using this as a guide, grows more rapidly than its fellow on the right and becomes the thoracic duct, or, rather, since it divides just before it reaches the aorta and sends a branch backward on either side of that vessel, it gives rise to tzvo thoracic ducts (Fig. 158, B). In embryos of 20 mm. a second pair of lymph hearts de- velops at the junction of the sciatic veins with the cardinals (Fig. 158, A, PLH), and from these branches grow toward the surface and radiate subcutaneously, similarly to those from the anterior hearts, with which they eventually unite. The thoracic ducts, continuing to elongate backward, dilate opposite the kidneys to form two receptacula chyli (Fig. 158, B, RC) and still more posteriorly unite with the pos- terior lymph hearts, which then separate completely from the veins from which they originated. In later stages branches, arising as outgrowths from^the thoracic ducts, gradually invade the mesentery and the various organs, following in general the course of the arteries, as do also the branches which pass to the limbs to form their deep lymphatics; the superficial branches, on the contrary, follow essentially the course of the veins. The lymph hearts as deyelopnient proceeds become transformedPEVELOPMENT OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 28/ into lymph nodes, and a^various points injhe system ^exuses~arise. Up'to this stage no valves are present in the vessels, and the development of these has yet to be Fig. 158.—Diagrams showing the Arrangement of the Lymphatic Vessels in Pig Embryos of (A) 20 mm. and (B) 40 mm. ACV, Jugular vein; ADR, suprarenal body; ALH, anterior lymph heart; Ao, aorta; Arm D, deep lymphatics to the arm; D, dia- phragm; Du, branches to duodenum; FV, femoral vein; H, branches to heart; K, kidney; LegD, deep lymphatics to leg; Lu, branches to lung; MP, branches to mesenteric plexus; CE, branch to oesophagus; PCV, cardinal vein; PLH, posterior lymph heart; RC, receptaculum chyli; RLD, right lymphatic duct; ScV, sub- clavian vein; SV, sciatic vein; St, branches to stomach; TD, thoracic duct; WB, Wolffian body.—(Sabin.)DEVELOPMENT OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. studied, as has also the final transformation of the condition described into that found in the adult. Lewis, from his observations on rabbit embryos, concludes that the lymphatics arise as outgrowths from the veins, but the outgrowths occur not only at the points indicated by Sabin, but ajsojtother points, as, for instance, near the root of the external mammary vein and in the vicinity of the azygos, gastric and superior mesenteric veins. The cond_- nuity^_of_these detached vessels with the veins was not actually observed, buMt is believed that they were out- growths which had separated from their veins, and__that they jeyentually unite with the jugular and femoraI jTint- growths to form a continuous lymphatic system. Ajthird view, that of Salg. and, more recently, of Hunt- ington and McClure, jjeriies the primary connection of the lymphatics with the veins, and maintains that they_are formed by^jthe^usion ofjnesenchymal spaces and only sec- ondarily make connection'^ wnth thp \re\n< Huntington and McClure find the first traces of the system in cat embryos in a series ^jjdisconnegted spaces in the tissue immediately sur- rcMmdingjdieJugular veins, and believe that these unite to form the anterior lymph hearts which subsequently become connected with the junction of the subclavian and jugular veins. Similar spaces occur in the_tissue surrmtndjng othei' veins, niid^Jjie^^anotis spaces eventuallv unite together to form the lymphatic system, and may make connections with vems other than the subclavian, as, for instance, the azygos. It is worthy of note that the spaces develop most rapidly where they are in association with regressive veins, and since it is in general the veins of the left side of the body which undergo the greatest amount of regression, an expla- nation is afforded of the situation of the thoracic duct on that side. Further observations are necessary to clear up the dis-DEVELOPMENT OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 289 crepancies in these different views and to determine th^ essential point whetherjhe lymphatic vessels arise as out- growths from the velnS-.orby the fusion ofjTiesench3aiiatQiis spaces. Lymph nodes have not been observed in human embryos until toward the end of the third month of development, but they appear in pig embryos of 3 cm. Their unit of struc- ture is a blood-vessel,_breakingLlip at its termination into a leash of capillaries, around which a con- densation of lymphocytes_^ccurs in~the mesenchyme. A structure oFthis kind forms what is termed a lymphoid follicle and may exist, even in this simple condition, in the adult. More frequently, however, there are associated with the follicle lymphatic vessels, or rather the follicle develops in a network of lymphatic vessels, which become an investment of the follicle and form with it a simple lymph node. This condition is, however, in many cases but transitory, the artery branching and collections of ly^hoid tissue forming around each of the branches, so that a series of follicles are formed, which, together with the surrounding lymphatic vessels, be- come enclosed by a connective-tissue capsule to form a com- pound lymph node. Later trabeculse of connective tissue extend from the capsule toward the center of the node, between the follicles, the lymphatic network gives rise to peripheral and central lymph sinuses, and the follicles, each with its arterial branch, constitute the peripheral nodules 26 Fig. 159.—Diagram of a Primary Lymph Node of AN Embryo Pig of 8 cm. a, artery; aid, afferent lymph duct; eld, efferent lymph duct; ^ follicle.— (Sabin.)290 DEVELOPMENT OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, and the medullary cords, the portions of these immediately surrounding the leash of capillaries into which the artery dissolves constituting, the so-called germ centers in which multiplication of the lymphocytes occurs. In various portions of the body, but especially along the root of the mesentery, what are termed hcemolymph nodes Fig. i6o.—Developing H^molymph Node. be, central blood-vessel; hh, blood-vessel at hilus; ps, peripheral blood sinus.— (Sabin from Morris' Human Anatomy.) occur. In these the lymph sinus is replaced by a blood sinus, but with this exception their structure resembles that of an ordinary lymph node, a simple one consisting of a follicle, composed of adenoid tissue with a central blood vessel, and a peripheral blood sinus (Fig. i6o). The Development of the Spleen.—Recent studies291 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SPLEEN. (Mall) have shown that the spleen may well be regarded as possessing a structure cqmparable_lo that of the lymph nodes, the £ulp being more or less distinctly divided by trabeculie into areasj;ermed pulp cords, tj2ej!2qs_oLeach, ofj,vhichJs^ occupied bv a twig of the splenic arterv. The spleen, therefore, seems to fall into the same category of organs as the lymph and hsemolymph nodes, differing from these chiefly in the absence of sinuses. It has generally been regarded as a development of the mesenchyme situated between the two layers of the mesogastrium. To this view, however, recent observers have taken exception, holding that the ultimate origin of the organ is in part or entirely from the coelomic epithelium of the left layer of the meso- gastrium. The first indication of the spleen has been ob- served in embryos of the fifth week as a slight elevation on the left (dorsal) surface of the mesogastrium, due to a local thickening and vascularization of the mesenchyme, accom- panied by a thickening of the coelomic epithelium which covers the elevation. The mesenchyme thickening presents no differences from the neighboring mesenchyme, but the epithelium is not distinctly separated from it over its entire surface, as it is elsewhere in the mesentery. In later jtages, which have been observed in detail in pig and other amniote embryos, cells separate from the deeper layers of the epir^ theliurn_(Fig. 161) and ^ass into the mesenchvme thicken- ing, whose tissue soon assumes a different appearance from the surroundmg mesenchyme by its cells being much crowded. This migration soon ceases, however, and in embryos of forty-two days the coelomic epithelium covering the thickening is reduced to a simple layer of cells. The later stages of development consist of an enlarge- ment of the thickening and its gradual constriction from the surface of the mesogastrium, untirTfls'finaily united tolt only by a narrow band through which the large splenicDEVELOPMENT OF THE SPLEEN. vessels gain access to the organ. The cells differentiate themselves into trabeculse and pulp cords, special collections of lymphoid cells around the branches of the splenic artery forming the Malpighian corpuscles. It has already been pointed out (p. 238) that during embry- onic life the spleen is an important haematopoietic organ, both red and white corpuscles undergoing active formation within its substance. The Malpighian corpuscles are collections of lymphocytes in which multiplication takes place, and while nothing is as yet known as to the fate of the cells which are contributed to the spleen from the coelomic epithelium, since they quickly come to resemble the mesenchyme cells with which they are associated, yet the growing number of observations Fig. 161.—Section through the Left Layer of the Mesogastrium OF A Chick Embryo of Ninety-three Hours, showing the Origin of the Spleen. ep, Coelomic epithelium; fns, mesenchyme.— (Tonkoff.) indicating an epithelial origin for lymphocytes suggests the possibility that the cells in question may be responsible forjhe first leukocytes of the .spleen. The Coccygeal or Luschka's Ganglion.—In embryos of about 15 cm. there is to be found on the ventral surface of the apex of the coccyx a small oval group of polygonal cells, clearly separated from the surrounding tissue by a mesen- chymal capsule. Later, connective-tissue trabeculas make their way into the mass, which thus becomes divided into lobules, and, at the same time, a rich vascular supply, de- rived principally from bi'anches of the middle sacral artery,LITERATURE. penetrates the body, which thus assumes the adult condition in which it presents a general resemblance to a group of lymph folHcles. It has generally been supposed that the coccygeal gan- glion was in part derived from the sympathetic nervous system and belonged to the same group" of organs as the suprarenal bodies. The most recent work on its develop- ment (Stoerk) tends, however, to disprove this view, and the ganglion seems accordingly to find its place among the lymphoid organs. LITERATURE. E. VAN Beneden and C. Julin : " Recherches sur la formation des an- nexes foetales chez les mammiferes," Archives de Biolog., v, 1884. A. C. Bernays : " Entwickelungsgeschichte der Atrioventricular- klappen," Morphol. Jahrhuch, 11, 1876. G. Born : " Beitrage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte des Saugethierher- zens," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xxxiii, 1889. J. Disse: "Die Entstehung des Blutes und der ersten Gefasse im Huh- nerei," Arc hiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xvi, 1879. A. C. F. Eternod: " Premiers stades de la circulation sanguine dans I'oeuf ei I'ernbryon humain," Anat. Anseiger, xv, 1899. W. His: "Anatomic menschlicher Embryonen," Leipzig, 1880-1882. F. Hochstetter: "Ueber die ursprungliche Hauptschlagader der hin- teren GHedmasse des Menschen und der Saugethiere, nebst Bemer- kungen iiber die Entwicklung der Endaste der Aorta abdominalis," Morphol. Jahrhuch, xvi, 1890. F. Hochstetter: "Ueber die Entwicklung der A. vertebralis beim Kaninchen, nebst Bemerkungen iiber die Entstehung der Ansa Vieusseni," Morphol. Jahrhuch, xvi, 1890. F. Hochstetter: "Beitrage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte des Venensys- tems der Amnioten," Morphol. Jahrhuch, xx, 1893. W. H. Howell: "The Life-history of the Formed Elements of the Blood, Especially the Red Blood-corpuscles," Journ. of Morphol., IV, 1890. W. H. Howell: "Observations on the Occurrence, Structure and Function of the Giant-cells of the Marrow," Journ. of Morbh IV, 1890. ^ ■■' G. H. Huntington and C. F. W. McClure: "Development of Post- cava and Tributaries in the Domestic Cat," Amor. Journ Anat VI, 1907.LITERATURE. 294 G. H. Huntington and C. F. McClure: "The Development of the Main Lymph Channels of the Cat in their Relations to the Venous System," Amcr. Journ. Anat., vi, 1907. C. A. Kling : " Studien iiber die Entwicklung der Lymphdriisen beim Menschen," Archiv. fur mikrosk. Anat,, lxiii, 1904. H. Lehmann: "On the Embryonic History of the Aortic Arches in Mammals," Anat. Anzeiger, xxvi, 1905. F. T. Lewis: "The Development of the Vena Cava Inferior," Anier. Journ. of Anat., 1, 1902. F. T. Lew^is : " The Development of the Veins in the Limbs of Rabbit Embryos," Amer. Journ. Anat., v, 1906. F. T. Lewis : " The Development of the Lymphatic System in Rabbits," Amer. Journ. Anat., v, 1906. W. A. LocY: " The Fifth and Sixth Aortic Arches in Chick Embryos, with Comments on the Condition of the same Vessels in other Vertebrates," Anat. Anzeiger, xxix, 1906. F. P. Mall: "Development of the Internal Mammary and Deep Epi- gastric Arteries in Man," Johns Hopkins Hospital Bulletin, 1898. F. P. Mall: "On the Development of the Blood-vessels of the Brain in the Human Embryo," Amer. Journ. Anat., iv, 1905. C. S. Minot : " On a Hitherto Unrecognized Form of Blood Circula- tion without Capillaries in the Organs of Vertebrata," Proc. Bos- ton Soc. Nat. Hist., xxix, 1900. E. Retterer: " Sur la part que prend I'epithelium a la formation de la bourse de Fabricius, des amygdales et des plaques de Peyer," Journ. de I'Anat. et de la Physiol., xxix, 1893. C. Rose : " Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte des Saugethierherzens," Mor- phol. Jahrhuch, xv, 1889. Florence R. Sabin : " On the Origin of the Lymphatic System from the Veins and the Development of the Lymph Hearts and Thoracic Duct in the Pig," Amer. Journ. of Anat., i, 1902. Florence R. Sabin : " The Development of the Lymphatic Nodes in the Pig and their Relation to the Lymph Hearts," Amer. Journ. Anat., IV, 1905. P. Stohr: " Ueber die Entwicklung der Darmlymphknotchen und iiber die Riickbildung von Darmdriisen," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., LI, 1898. O. van der Stricht: " Nouvelles recherches sur la genese des globules rouges et des globules blancs du sang," Archives de Biolog., xii, 1892. O. van der Stricht : " De la premiere origine du sang et des capillaires sanguins dans I'aire vasculaire du Lapin," Comptes Rendus de la Soc.de Biolog. Paris, Ser. 10, 11, 1895.LITERATURE. 295 O. Stoerk: "Ueber die Chromreaktion der Glandula coccygea und die Beziehung dieser Driise zum Nervus sympathicus," Arch, fiir mikroskop. Anat., lxix, 1906. J. Tandler: "Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Kopfarterien bei den Mammalia," Morphol. Jahrhuch, xxx, 1902. J. Tandler : " Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der menschlichcn Darm- arterien," Anat. Hefte, xxiii^ 1903. W. Tonkoff: "Die Entwickelung der Milz bei den Amnioten," Arch. fiir mikrosk. Anat., Lvi, 1900. Bertha de Vriese: "Recherches sur revolution des vaissaux sanguins des membres chez rhomme," Archives de Biolog., xviii, 1902.296 CHAPTER X. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE DIGESTIVE TRACT AND GLANDS. The greatest portion of the digestive tract is jormed by the constriction off .of. the dorsal portion of the yolk-sac, as shown in Fig. 39, the result being the formation of a cylinder, closed at either end, and composed of a layer of splanchnic mesoderm lined on its inner surface_by_endQ- derm. Tliis cylinder_2^_termed^ the arrhpntpmn and has connected with it the yolk-stalk and the allantois. thejatter communicating with its somewhat dilated terminal portion. which cilso receives the ducts of the primitive kidneys and, is known as the cloaca (Fig. 163). At a very early stage of development the anterior end of the embryo begins to project slightly inftwt_jD£^ the yolk-sac, so that a ^hallow depression is formed between the two structures. As the constriction of tKe~eml5ryq f foTp' the sac proceeds, the anterior portion of the brain becomes bent ventrally and the heart makes its appearance immedi- ately in front of the anterior surface of the yolk-sac, and so the depression mentioned above becomes deepened (Fig. 162) to form the oral sinus. The floor of this, lined by ectoderm, is immediately opposite the anterior end oOhe archenteron, and, since mesoderm does not develop in _this region, the ectoderm of the sinus and the endoderm ofjhe archenteron are directly in contact, forming a thin pharyn-^ geal membrane separating the two cavities (Fig. 162, pm). in embryos of 2.15 mm. this membrane is still existent, but soon after it becomes perforated_and finally disappears, so that the archenteron and oral sinus become continuous.DEVELOPMENT OF TIIE DIGESTIVE TRACT. 297 Toward its posterior end the archenteron comes into somewhat simibTTibtb^with the ectoderm, though a marked difference' is noticeable in that the area over which the cloacal endoderm is in contact with the ectoderm to form the cloacal membrane (Fig. 163, cm) lies a little in front of tl^actual eiLdoj-tllie^-cto the jDortionof, the latter which lies posterior to the membrane forming what- has been termed the post-anal ^ut (p.an). This diminishes in size during development and early disappears alto- gether, and the pouch-like fold__seeri_in Fig. 16^ ±>e- tween the intestinal por- tion of the archenteron Fig. 162.—Reconstruction of the Anterior Portion of an Embryo OF 2.15 MM. ab, Aortic bulb; h, heart; o, auditory capsule; op, optic evagination; pm, pharyngeal membrane.— (His.) and the allantoic stalk (a/) deepening until jts^ floor comes into contact with the cloacal mem- brane, the cloaca becomes' divided into a ventral i)' tion, with which the allan- tois and the primitive exj cretory ducts Jw) are connected, and a.dorsal portion which becomes the lower end of the rectum. . This latter abuts upon the dorsal por- tion of the cloacal membrane, and this eventually ruptures, so that the posterior communication of the archenteron with the exterior becomes established. This rupture, however, does not occur until a comparatively late period of develop- ment, until ajter the embryo has reached the fetal stag^ ripr does the position of the inembrane correspond with the adult anus^since later there is a considera1;le development298 DIGESTIVE TRACT AND GLANDS. of mesoderm around the mouth of the clo:u-a, bulging- out, as it were, the surrounding ectoderm, more os[)ecic-i11y an- teriorly where it forms the large genital tubercle (see Chapter XIII), and posteriorly when it produces tlie anal tubercle. This appears^ as a rounded elevation on eacli side of the median line, immediately behind the cloacal mem- brane and separated from the root of the caudal projec- tion by a depression, the precaudal recess. Later the two Fig. 163.—Reconstruction of the Hind End of an Embryo 6.5 mm. Long. al, Allantois; h, belly-stalk; cl, cloaca; cm, cloacal membrane; i, intes- tine; fi, spinal cord; nc, notochord; p.an, post-anal gut; ur out- growth to form ureter and metanephros; w, Wolffian duct.— (Keibel.) elevations unite across the median line to form a transverse_ ndge, the ends of which curve forward and_eventually meet in front of the original anal orifice^ From the mesoderm of the circular elevation thus produced theextexml sphincter ani muscle is formed, and it would_.seem that so much of theDEVELOPMENT OF THE MOUTH REGION. 299 lower end of the rectum as corresponds to this muscle is formed by the inner surface of the elevation and is there- fore ectodermal. The definitive anus being at the end of this terminal portion of the gut is therefore some distance away from the position of the original cloacal membrane. It will be noticed that the digestive tract thus formed consists of three distinct portions, an anterior, short, ecto- dermal portion, an endodermal portion representing the original archenteron, and a posterior short portion which is also ectodermal. The differentiation of the tract into its various regions and the formation of the various organs found in relation with these may now be considered. The Development of the Mouth Region.—The deep- ening of the oral sinus by the development of the first bran- chial arch and its separation into the oral and nasal cavities by the development of the palate have already been described (p. 88), but, for the sake of continuity in description, the latter process may be briefly recalled. At first the nasal pits communicate with the oral sinus by grooves lying one on each side of the fronto-nasal process, but by the union of the latter with the maxillary process this communication is interrupted and the pits make new connections with the oral sinus behind the maxillary process. At about the fifth week_a downgrowth of epithelium into the substance of both the maxillarj^and fronto-nasal processes above and the mandibular process below, takes place and the surface of the downgrowth becomes marked by a deepening groove (Fig. 164), which separates an anterior fold, the lip, from the jaw proper (Fig. 165). From the maxillo-palatine portions of the upper jaw, shelf-like ridges then begin to grow at first downwards and then medially, and at about the beginning of the third month these meet in the median line to form the palateTandlTmre anteriorly with the pre-300 DEVELOPMENT OF THE MOUTH REGION. maxillge, thus completing the separation of the definitive mouth from the nasal cavity. At the point" o"f meeting of the shelves with the premaxillas a small communication be- tween the two cavities persists for a time, frequently until after birth; it allows passage of the anterior palatine vessels and nerves, and places the organ of Jacobson (p. 459) in communication with the mouth. Later the opening becomes closed over by mucous membrane, but it may be recognized Fig. 164.—View of the Roof of the Oral Fossa of Embryo showing THE Lip-groove and the Formation of the Palate.—(His.) in the dried skull as the foramen incisivum (anterior pala- tine canal). When the ridges which become the palatal plates are first formed they have an almost vertical direction, projecting down- ward and somewhat inward between the sides of the tongue and the alveolar processes. The tongue at this stage almost completely fills the oral cavity, its dorsum being in contact with the base of the skull. Later, the lower jaw, which at first is considerably shorter than the upper one, increases in length and at the same time also in breadth, and also assumes a more horizontal position. The tongue then sinks down between the Meckelian cartilages and the palatal ridges bend dorsally so as to become horizontal, and their further growth leads to their union in the median line to form the roof of the mouth. Occasionally there is a failure of the union of the palatal plates, the condition known as cleft palate resulting. The in-DEVELOPMENT OF THE MOUTH REGION. hibition of development which brings about this condition may take place at different stages, but frequently it occurs while the plates still have an almost vertical direction. A second variety of cleft palates may result from failure of the palatal plates to unite with the premaxillary portions of the jaw, a condition which is associated with hare-lip (see page 89), although this abnormality may exist without an involvement of the palate. Before the formation of the palate begins, a potich is formed in thejriedianiine of the roof of the oral sinus, jusj: infront of the pharYngeaLmmibrane^ by an_outgrowth of the epithfilinm. This poucli^_kiiown as BMhk£i^-^iauch, comes in contact above with a downgrowth from^the floor of the brain and forms with it the pituitary body (see p. 424). The Development of the Teeth.—When the epithelial downgrowth which gives rise to the lip groove is formed, a horizontal outgrowth develops from it which extends back- ward into the substance of the jaw, forming what is termed the dental shelf (Fig. 165, A). This at first is situated on the anterior surface of the jaw, but with the continued devel- opment of the lip fold it is gradually shifted until it comes to lie upon the free surface (Fig. 165, B), where its super- ficial edge is marked by a distinct groove, the dental groove (Fig. 164). At first the dental shelf of each jaw is a con- tinuous plate of cells, uniform in thickness throughout its entire width, but later ten thickenings develop upon its deep edge, and beneath each of these the mesoderm condenses to form a dental papilla, over the surface of which the thick- ening, moulds itself to form a cap, termed the enamel organ (Fig. 165, B). These ten papillae in each jaw, with their enamel caps, represent the teeth of the first dentition. The papillae do not, however, project into the very edge oi the dental shelf, but obliquely into what, in the lower jaw, was originally.its under surface (Fig. 165, B), so that the edge of the shelf is free to grow still deeper into the302 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. surface of the jaw. This it does, and upon the extension so formed there is developed in each jaw a second set of thickenings, beneath each of which a dental papilla again appears. These tooth-germs represent the incisors, canines, and premolars of the permanent dentition. The lateral edges of the dental shelf being continued outward toward the articulations of the jaws as prolongations which are not Fig 16=;—Transverse Sections through the Lower Jaw showing 'the Formation of the Dental Shelf in Embryos of (^) 17 mm. AND (5) 40 MM— connected with the surface epithelium, opportunity is afforded for the development of three additional thicken- ings on each side in each jaw, and, papillae developing beneath these, twelve additional tooth-germs are formed. These represent the permanent molars; their formation is much later than that of the other teeth, the germ of the second molar not appearing until about the sixth week afterDEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. 3^3 birth, while that of the third is delayed until about the fifth year. As the tooth-germs increase in size, they approach nearer and nearer to the surface of the jaw, and at the same time the enamel organs separate from the dental shelf until their connection with it is a mere neck of epithelial cells. In the meantime the dental shelf itself has been undergoing degen- eration and is reduced to a reticulum which eventually com- pletely disappears, though fragments of it may occasionally persist and give rise to various malformations. With the disappearance of the last remains of the shelf, the various tooth-germs naturally lose all connection with one another. It will be seen, from what has been said, that each tooth- germ consists of two portions, one of which, the enarnel organ, is derived from the ectoderm, while jthe other, the ■ — — ■ ■ I . .. — _^ dental papilla, is mesenchymatous. Each of these gives rise to a definite portion of the fully formed tooth, the enamel organ, as its name indicates, producing the enamel, while from the dental papilla the dentine and pulp are formed. The cells of the enamel organ which are in contact with the surface of the papilla, at an early stage assume a cylin- drical form and become arranged in a definite layer, the enamel membrane (Fig. i66, SEi), while the remaining cells (SEa) apparently degenerate eventually, though they persist for a time to form what has been termed the enamel pulp. The formation of the enamel seems to be due to the direct transformation of the enamel cells, the process begin- ning at the basal portion of each cell, and as a result, the enamel consists of a series of prisms, each of which repre- sents one of the cells of the enamel membrane. The trans- formation proceeds until the cells have become completely converted into enamel prisms, except at their very tips, which form a thin membrane, the enamel cuticle, which is shed soon after the eruption of the teeth.DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. 304 The dental papillae are at first composed of a closely packed mass of mesenchyme cells, which later become differ- entiated into connective tissue into which blood-vessels and nerves penetrate. The superficial cells form a more or less IT. Fig. i66.—Section through the First Molar Tooth of a Rat, Twelve Days Old. Ap, Periosteum; E, dentine; Ep, epidermis; Od, odontoblasts; ^, enamel; SEa and SEi, outer and inner layers of the enamel organ; SE, portion of the enamel organ which does not produce enamel.— {von Brunii.) definite layer (Fig. i66, od), and are termed odonto- blasts, having the function of manufacturing the dentine;DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. This they accompHsh, in the same manner as that in which the periosteal osteoblasts produce bone, depositing the den- tine between their surfaces and the adjacent surface of the enamel. The outer surface of each odontoblast is drawn out into a number of exceedingly fine processes which ex- tend into the dentine to occupy the minute dentinal tubules, just as processes of the osteoblasts occupy the canaliculi of bone. At ail early stage the enamel membrane forms an almost complete investment for the dental papilla (Fig. i66), but, as the ossification of the tooth proceeds, it recedes from the lower part, until finally it is confined entirely to the crown. The dentine forming the roots of the tooth then becomes enclosed in a layer of cement, which is true bone and serves to unite the tooth firmly to the walls of its socket. As the tooth increases in size, its extremity is brought nearer to the surface of the gum and eventually breaks through, the eruption of the first teeth usually taking place during the last half of the first year after birth. The growth of the permanent teeth proceeds slowly at first, but later it becomes more rapid and produces pressure upon the roots of the primary teeth. These roots then undergo partial absorp- tion, and the teeth are thus loosened in their sockets and are readily pushed out by the further growth of the permanent teeth. The dates and order of the eruption of the teeth are subject to considerable variation, but the usual sequence is somewhat as follows: Primary Dentition. Median incisors, 6th to 8th month. Lateral incisors, 7th to 9th month. First molars, ..., Beginning of 2d year. Canines, i^ years. Second molars, .3 to 3^ years. 27DEVELOPMENT OF . THE TONGUE. 306 The teeth of the lower jaw generally precede those of the upper. Permanent Dentition, First molars, 7th year. Middle incisors, 8th year. Lateral incisors, gth year. First premolars, loth year. Second premolars, nth year. Canines, ) , ' 13th to 14th years. Second molars, Third molars, 17th to 40th years. In a considerable percentage of individuals the third molars (wisdom teeth) never break through the gums, and frequently when they do so they fail to reach the level of the other teeth, and so are only partly functional. These and other peculiari- ties of a structural nature shown by these teeth indicate that they are undergoing a retrogressive evolution. The Development of the Tongue.—Strictly speaking, the tongue is largely a development of the pharyngeal re- gion of the digestive tract and only secondarily grows for- ward into the floor of the mouth. In embryos of about 3 mm. there may be seen in the median line of the floor of the mouth, between the ventral ends of the first and second branchial arches, a small rounded elevation w hich has been termed the tuherculum impar (Fig. lyi, t). In later stages (Fig. 167, A) this becomes larger and reaches its greatest development in embryos of about 8 mm., after _wliich it becomes less prominent and finally unrecognizable; but before this there has appeared on each side of the_floor of_ the mouth a longitudinal groove, each of which at its ante- rior end bends medially toward its fellow. By these_a/z/^o/o- lingual grooves an area is marked out in the floor of the moutii which gradually becomes more and more prominent and rounded upon its oral surface, and forms the anterior portion of the tongue (Fig. 167, B, f). This median^elc::. vation is bounded_at the sides and almost to the median line in_front by the alveolo-lingual grooves, and posteriorly it isDEVELOPMENT OF THE TONGUE. separated from the anterior edge of the second branchig.1 arch by a distinct V-shaped groove, at the apex of which is a deep circular depression, theJoramei^ cacumj^see p. 313)- The posterior portion of the tongue arises as thickeniags^. of the ventral ends of the second branchial arches, and is ^Siiii^rientTy a V-shaped structure, into the angle of which the posterior part of the anterior portion of the tongue fits (Fig. 168). The two portions, anterior and posterior. Fig. 167.—Floor of the Pharynx of Embryos of (A) 7 and (B) id MM., SHOWING THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE TONGUE. Ep, Epiglottis; Sp, prsecervical sinus; f and f, median and lateral portions of the tongue; / to IV, branchial arches.— (His.) eventually fuse together, but the groove which originally separated them remains more or less clearly distinguishable, the vallate papillae (see p. 460) developing immediately an- terior to it. The tongue is essentially a muscular organ, being formed of a central mass of muscular tissue, enclosed at the sides and dorsally by mucous membrane derived from the floor of the mouth and pharynx. The muscular tissue consists partly of fibers limited to the substance of the tongue and forming the m. lingualis, and also of a number of extrinsic muscles, the hyoglossi, gcnioglossi, styloglossi, glossopalatini, and chondro-3o8 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TONGUE. glossi. The last two muscles are innervated by the vagus nerve, and the remaining extrinsic muscles receive fibers from the hypoglossal, while the lingualis is supplied partly by the hypoglossal and partly, apparently, by the facial through the chorda tympani. That the facial should take part in the sup- ply is what might be expected from the mode of develop- ment of the tongue, but the hypoglossal has been seen to correspond to certain pri- marily postcranial metameres (p. 179), and its relation to structures taking part in the formation of an organ belong- ing to the anterior part of the pharynx seems somewhat anomalous. It may be sup- posed that in the evolution of the tongue the extrinsic mus- cles, together with a certain amount of the lingualis, have grown into the tongue thick- enings from regions situated much further back, for the most part from behind the last branchial arch. Such an invasion of the tongue by muscles from posterior segments would explain the distribution of its sensory nerves. The anterior portion, from its position, would naturally be sup- plied by branches from the fifth and seventh nerves, while the posterior portion might be expected to be supplied by the seventh. There seems, however, to have been a dislocation forward, if it may be so expressed, of the mucous membrane, the sensory distribution of the ninth nerve extending forward upon the posterior part of the anterior portion of the tongue, while a considerable amount of the posterior portion is supplied by the tenth nerve. The distribution of the sensory fibers of the facial is probably confined entirely to the anterior portion, though further information is needed to determine the exact distribution of both the motor and sensory fibers of this nerve in the tongue. The Development of the Salivary Glands.—In em- bryos of about 8 mm. a slight furrow_may be observed in the floor of the groove which connects the lip grooves of r Fig. 168.—The Floor of the Pharynx of an Embryo of ABOUT 20 MM epj Epiglottis; fc, foramen cserum; and f median and lateral por- tions of the tongue.— (His.)309 THE SALIVARY GLANDS; the upper and lower jaws ai the,an^^ the mouth and may be known as the cheek groove. In later stages this furrow deepens and eventually ^ecomes closed in to form a hollow tubular structure, which in embryos'of 17 mm. has Fig. 169.—Diagram of the Distribution of the Sensory Nerves of THE Tongue. The area supplied by the fifth (and seventh) nerve is indicated by the transverse hnes; that of the ninth by the oblique lines; and that of the tenth by the small circles.—(Zawrf^r.) separated from the epithelium of the floor of the cheek jroove except at its anterior end and has beconie embedded in the connective tissue of the cheek. This tube is readilyTHE SALIVARY GLANDS. 310 recognizable as the parotid ^land and_^enson's duct, and from the latter as it passes across the masse'termuscreTa pouch-like outgrowth is early formed which probably rep- resents the socia parotidis. The submaxillary ^land and Wharton's duct appear in embryos of about 13 mm. as a longitudinal ridge-like thick- ening of the epithelium of the floor of the alveolo-lingual groove (see p. 306). This_rklge_gradu^ separates from, behind forward from the floor of the groove and sinks into" tHe subjacent connective tissue, retaining, however, its con-' Fig. 170.—An Oblique Section through the Mouth Cavity of an Embryo of about 16 to 17 mm. cm, Meckel's cartilage; id, inferior dental nerve; nl, lingual nerve;. P, parotid gland; SL, septum of the tongue; si, sublingual gland; sm, submaxillary gland; t, tooth; XII, hypoglossal nerve.—(i/w.) nection with the epithelium at its anterior end^ which indi- cates the position of the opening of the duct Inthevicinity of this there appear in embryos of 24.4 mm. five small bud- like downgrowths of the epithelium, which later increase considerably in number asA^jell^'s^in size, and constitute a group of glands^wfticn are generally spoken of as the subli7i£ual £land.- As these representatives of the various glands increase in length, they become lobed at their deeper ends, and the lobes later give rise to secondary outgrowths which branch repeatedly, the terminal branches becoming the alveoli ofTHE PHARYNX. the glands. A lumen early appears in the duct portions of the structures, the alveoli remaining solid for a longer time, although they eventually also become hollow. It is to be noted that each parotid and submaxillary consists of a single primary outgrowth, and is therefore a single struc- ture and not a union of a number of originally separate parts. The sublingual glands of adult anatomy are usually described as opening upon the floor of the mouth by a number of separate ducts. This arises from the fact that the majority of the glands which fonn in the vicinity of the opening of Wharton's duct remain quite small, only one of them on each side giving rise to the sublingual gland proper. The small glands have been termed the alveolo-lingual glands, and each one of them is equivalent to a parotid or submaxillary gland. In other words, there are in reality not three pairs of salivary glands, but from fourteen to sixteen pairs, there being usually from eleven to thirteen alveolo-lingual glands on each side. The Development of the Pharynx.—The phaynx rep- resents the most anterior part of the archenteron, that por- tion in which the branchial arches develop, and in the embryo it is relatively much longer than in the adult, the diminu- tion being brought about by the folding in of the posterior arches and the formation of the sinus prsecervicalis already described (p. 86). Between the various branchial arches, grooves occur, representing the endodermal portions of the, grooves which separate the arches. During development the first of these becomes converted into th^^iipanic cavity ofjhe^ear and the Eustachian tube (see Chapter XV) ; the second disappears in itsfupper part, the lower^ersisting as ^ the^ fossa in which the tonsjlJs_situatedT^wiiik ^ '2HJi_^Li^tJ[?''^\^"'^"'i§^ two are represented by the sinus P^^^f.^IE^^s 9.1-th?-larynx (His), and also leave traces of their existence in detached portions of their epithelium which form what are termed the branchial epithelial bodies, and take part in the formation oTlhe thvreoj£anHJj^.^rnM^ glands. ^ -THE PHARYNX. 312 I" the floor of the pharynx behind the thickenings wliicl: IDroduce the tongue there is to be found in early stages a pair of tliickcnings passing horizontally backward and uniting in front so that they resemble an inverted U (Fig. I7i> /). These ridges, which form what is termed the f^^rada (Ji'is), are concerned in the formation of parts of the larynx (see p. 356). In the part of the roof of the pharynx which comes to lie be- tween the openings of the Eusta- chian tubes, a collection of lym- phatic tissue takes place beneath the mucous membrane, forming the pharyngeal tonsil, and im- mediately behind this there is formed in the median line an up- wardly projecting pouch, thej>/za- ryns^eal bursa, first certainly no- ticeable in embryos 6.5 mm. in Fig. 171.—The Floor of THE Pharynx of an Em- bryo OF 2.15 MM. f, _ Furcula; t, tnberculum impar.— (His.) length. This bursa has very generally been regarded as the persistent remains of Rathke's pouch (p. 301), especially since it is much more pronounced in fetal than in adult life. It has been shown, however, that it is formed quite independently of and posterior to the true Rathke's pouch (Killian), though what its significance may be is still uncertain. The tonsils are formed from the epithelium of the lower part of the second branchial grooye. ' At about the fourth month solid buds begin to grow from the epithelium into the subjacent mesenchyme, and depressions appear on the surface of this region. Later the buds become hollow by a cornification of their central cells, and open upon the floor of the depressions which represent the crypts of the tonsil. In the meantime Ivmphorvtes, concerning whose origin there is a difference of opinion, collect in the sub- jacent mesenchyme and eventually aggregate to form lym-THE TONSIL. phatic follicles in close relation with the buds. Whether the lymphocytes wander out from the blood into the mesen- chyme or are derivecl_directly from the epithelium or the mesenchyme cells is the question at issue. The tonsil may grow to a size sufficient to fill up com- pletely the groove in which it forms, but not infrequently a marked depression, the fossa mpratonsillaris, exists above it and represents a portion of the original second branchial furrow. The groove of R^semnilller, which was at one time thought to be also_a^remnant of the second furrow, is a secondary depression which appears in embryos of 11.5 cm. behind the opening of the Eustachian tube, in about tlie region of the-third branchigil furrow. The Development of the Branchial Epithelial Bodies.—• These are structures which arise either as thickenings or as outpouchings of the epithelium lining the lower portions of the inner branchial furrows. Five pairs of these struc- tures are developed and, in addition, there is a single un- paired median body. This last makes its appearance in eiiiHryos of about 3 mm., and gives rise to the major por- tion of the thyreoid body. It is situated immediately be- hind the anterior portion of the tongue, at the apex of the groove between this and the posterior portion, and is first a slight pouch-like depression (Fig. 167). As it deepens, its extremity becomes bilobed, and after the embryo has reached a length of 6 mm. it becomes completely separated from the floor of the pharynx. The point of its original origin is, however, permanently marked by a circular de- pression, the foramen ccccum (Fig. 168, fc). Later the bilobed body migrates down the neck and becomes a solid transversely elongated mass (Fig. 172, th), into the sub- stance of which trabeculse of connective tissue extend, divid- ing it into a network of anastomosing cords which later 28314 THE BRANCHIAL EPITHELIAL BODIES. divide transversely to form follicles. When the embryo has reached a length of 2.6 cm., a cylindrical outgrowth arises from the anterior surface of the mass, usually a little to the left of the median line, and extends up the neck a varying distance, forming, when it persists until adult life, the so-called pyramid of the thyreoid body. This account of the pyramid follows the statements made by recent workers on the question (Tourneux and Verdun) ; His B, Fig. 172.—Reconstructions of the Branchial Epithelial Bodies OF Embryos of (A) 14 mm. and (B) 26 mm. ao, Aorta; Itli, lateral thyreoid; ph, pharynx; pth"^ and pth', parathy- reoids; th, thyreoid; thy, thymus; vc, vena cava superior.—(ToMr- neux and Verdun.) has claimed that it is the remains of the stalk connecting the thyreoid with the floor of the pharynx, and which he terms the thyreo-glossal duct. In addition to this median structure, one of the pairs of the lateral evaginations also takes part in the formation of the thyreoid body. These are the hteral thyreoids (Fig. 172, Ith), and they arise from the posterior wall of the fourth branchial furrow, in embryos of about 8 mm. Sepa- rating from the furrow, they migrate backward to fuse, in embryos of about 16 mm., with the posterior surface of the lateral portions of the median thyreoid. They form, how-THE BRANCHIAL EPITHELIAL BODIES. ever, only a relatively small portion of the entire thyreoid (Fig-. 173, thm IV). Two other pairs of bodies enter into intimate relations with the thyreoid, forming what have been termed the parathyreoid bodies (Fig. 172^ pt}^ and pth^). One of these pairs arises as a thick- />^^"" z^^- ening of the anterior /// wall of the fourth bran- j^^-^jB JS^/z/zw/// chial groove and the other comes from the corresponding wall of the third groove. The members of the former pair, after separating from their points of ori- gin, come to lie on the dorsal surface of the lateral portions of the thyreoid body (Fig. 173, pthm IV) in close prox- imity to the lateral thy- reoids, while those of the other pair, passing further backward, come to rest behind the lower border of the thyreoid (Fig"- 173. Pihm III). The cells of these bodies do not become divided into cords by the ingrowth of connective tissue to the same extent as those of the thyreoids, nor do they become sepa- rated into follicles, so that the bodies are readily distingiu'sh- able by their structure from the thyreoid. Fig. 173.—Thyreoid, Thymus and Epithelial Bodies of a New- born Child. pthm III and pthm IV, Parathyreoids; sd, thyreoid; thm III, thymus; thm IV, lateral thyreoid.—(Groschuff.)THE BRANCHIAL EPIJHELIAL BODIES. 3i6 From the posterior wall of the third branchial groove a pair of evaginations develop, similar to those which produce the lateral thyreoids. These_elongate greatly, and growing downward ventrally to the thyreoid and separating from ' their points of origin, come to lie below the thyreoids, form- ing the thymus gland (Fig. 172, thy). As development proceeds they pass further bacl:ward and come eventually to rest upon the anterior surface of the pericardium. The cavity which they at first contain is early obliterated and the glands assume a lobed appearance and become traversed by trabeculae of connective tissue. Lymphocytes, derived,, ac^ cording to some recent observalions, djrectly from the epi- thehum of the glands, make theii^appearance and gradually increase in number until_the_ original epithelial cells are rep- resented only by a number of peculiar spherical structures, consisting of cells arranged in concentric^layers and_kiiown as Hassall's corpuscles. The glands increase in size until about the fifteenth year, after which they gradually undergo degeneration into a mass of fibrous and adipose tissue. Finally, a pair of outgrowths arise from the floor of the pharynx just behind the, fifth branchial arch, in the region where the fifth groove, if developed, would occur. These post-branchial bodies, as they have been called, usually undergo degeneration at an early stage and disappear com- pletely, though occasionally they persist as cystic structures embedded in the substance of the thyreoid. The relation of these various structures to the branchial grooves is shown by the annexed diagram (Fig. 174) ; and from it, it will be seen that the bodies derived from the third and fourth grooves are serially equivalent. Comparative em- bryology makes this fact still more evident, since, in the lower vertebrates, each branchial groove contributes to the formation of the thymus gland. The terminology used above for theTHE JiRANCIIIAL EPITHELIAL BODIES. various bodies is that generally applied to the mammalian organs, but it would be better, for the sake of comparison with other vertebrates, to adopt the nomenclature proposed by Gro- schuif who terms each lateral thyreoid a thymus IV, whi e each thymus lobe is a thymus III. Similarly the parathyreoids Fig. 174—Diagram, showing the Origin of the Various Branchial Epithelial Bodies. Ith, Lateral thyreoids; />/», postbranchial bodies; pht^ and pht^, para- thyreoids; th, median thyreoid; thy, thymus; / to IV, branchial grooves.— (Kohn.) are termed parathymus III and IV, the term thyreoid being limited to the median thyreoid. The Musculature of the Pharynx.—The pharynx differs from other portions of the archenteron in the fact that its walls are furnished with.voluntary muscles, the principal of which are the constrictors and the stylo-pharyngeus. This peculiarity arises from the relations of the pharynx to the branchial arches. It has been seen that in the higher mam- malia the dorsal ends of the third, fourth, and fifth bran-3i8 THE (ESOPHAGUS. chial cartilages disappear; the muscles originally associated with these structures persist, however, and give rise to the muscles of the pharynx, which consequently are innervated by the ninth and tenth nerves. The Development of the CEsophagus.—From the ven- tral side of the lower portion of the pharynx an evagination develops at an early stage which is destined to give rise to the organs of respiration; the development of this may, however, be conveniently postponed to a later chapter (Chapter XII). The oesophagus is at first a very short portion of the archenteron (Fig. 175, but as the heart and diaphragm recede into the thorax, it elongates (Fig. 175, B) until it eventually forms a considerable portion of the digestive tract. Its endodermal lining, like that of the rest of the digestive tract except the pharynx, is surrounded by splanch- nic mesoderm whose cells become converted into non- striated muscular tissue, which, by the_fourth month, has separated into an inner circular and an outer longitudinal layer. The Development of the Stomach and Intestines.— By the time the embryo has reached a length of about 3 mm. its constriction from the yolk-sac has proceeded so far that a jDortion of the digestive tract anterior to the yolk-sac can be recognized as the stomach and a portion posterior as the intestine. At first the stomach is a simple, spindle-shaped enlargement (Fig. 175) and the intestine a tube without any coils or bends, but since in later stages the intestine grows much more rapidly in length than the abdominal cavity, a coiling of the intestine becomes necessary. The elongation of the stomach early produces changes in its position, its lower end bending over toward the right, while its upper end, owing to the development of the liver, is forced somewhat toward the left. At the same time theTHE STOMACH. entire organ undergoes a rotation about its longitudinal axis through nearly ninety degrees, so that, as the result of the combination of these two changes, what was originally its ventral border becomes its lesser curvature and what was originally its left surface becomes its ventral surface. OF (A) 4.2 MM. AND (B) 5 MM. all, Allantois; cl, cloaca; I, lung; It, liver; Rp, Rathke's pouch; 6", stomach; f tongue; th, thyreoid body; Wd, Wolffian duct; y, yolk- stalk.—(Hw.) ^ Hence it is that the left vagus nerve passes over the ventral and the right over the dorsal surface of the stomach in the adult. In the meantime the elongation of the oesophagus has carried the stomach further away from the lower end of theTHE INTESTINE. 320 pharynx, and from being spindle-shaped it has become more pyriform, as in the adult. The growth of the intestine results in its being ihiown into a loop opposite the point where the yolk-stalk is still connected with it, the loop projecting ventrally into the por- tion of the coelomic cavity which is contained within the umbilical cord, and being placed so that its upper limb_ijes to the right of the lower onp. Upon the latter a slight Fig. 176.—Reconstruction of Embryo of 20 mm. C\ Caecum; K, kidney; L, liver; vS", stomach; SC, suprarenal bodies; W, mesonephros.—(Mall.) pouch-like lateral outgrowth appears which is the beginning of the ccccum and marks the line of union of the future small and large intestine. The small intestine, continuing to lengthen more rapidly than the large, assumes a sinuous course (Fig. 176), in which it is possible to recognize six321 THE INTESTINE. primary coils which continue to be recognizable until ad- vanced stages of development and even in the adult (Mall). The first of these is at first indistinguishable from the pyloric portion of the stomach and can be recognized as the duodenum only by the fact that it Jias connected with it the ducts of the liver and pancreas; as development proceeds, however, its caliber diminishes and it assumes the appear- ance of a portion of the intestine. The remaining coils elongate rapidly and are thrown into Fig. 177.—Reconstruction of the Intestine of an Embryo of ly mm. The Figures on the Intestine Indicate the Primary Coils — {Mall.) numerous secondary coils, all of_which _ai\e,sj:m cont^m .'^^^hnTnie^^ (Fig. 177). When the embryo has reached a length of about 40 mm. the coils rather suddenly return to the abdominal cavity, and now the csecurn is thrown over toward the rigHtTsg'ttiat it comes to lie immediately beneath the liver on the right side of the abdominal cavity, a position which it_retains until about the fourth month after birth (freves)! The jportion of tlil' large intestine which formerly projected into the umbilical codoaLnow lies transversely across the upper part of the322 THE INTESTINE. abdomen, crossing^in front of the duodennm and having the remaniing portion of the small intestine below it. The elongation continuing, the secondary coils of the small in- testine become more numerous and the lower portion of the large intestine is thrown_into _a loo£ which extends trans- versely across the lower part of the abdominal cavity and represents the sigmoid flexure of the colon. At the time of birth this portion of the large intestine is relatively much longer than in the adult, amounting to nearly^half the entire length of the colon (Treves), but after the fourth month after birth a readjustment of the relative lengths of the parts of the colon occurs, the sigmoid flexure becoming shorter and the rest of the colon proportionally longer, whereby the^cum is pushed downward until it lies in the right iliac fossa, the ascending colon being thus established. When this condition has been reached, the duodenum, after passing downward for a short distance so as to pass dorsally to the transverse colon, bends toward the left and the secondary coils derived from the second and third pri- mary coils come to occupy the left upper portion of the abdominal cavity. Those from the fourth primary coil pass across the middle line and occupy the right upper part of the abdomen, those from the fifth cross back again to the left lumbar and iliac regions, and those of the sixth take possession of the false pelvis and the right iliac region (Fig. i78)r~" - Slight variations from this arrangement are not infrequent, but it occurs with sufficient frequency to be regarded as the normal. A failure in the readjustment of the relative lengths of the different parts of the colon may also occasionally occur, in which case the caecum will retain its embryonic position beneath the liver. The yolk-stalk is continuous with the intestine at_the extremity of the loop which extends"^it into the umMlical coelom, and when the primary coils become apparent itsTHE INTESTINE. point of attachment lies in the refflon of the sjxth coi f As a rule, the caliber of the stalk does not increase proportion- ally with that of the intestine, and eventually its embryonic portion disappears completely. Occasionally, however, this portion of it does partake of the increase in size which P"iG. 178.—Representation of the Coilings of the Intestine in the Adult Condition. The Numbers indicate the Primary Coils — {Mall.) occurs in the intestine, and it forms a blind pouch of vary- ing length, known z.s^Meckel's diverticulum (see p. 119). The ccEcum has been seen to arise as a lateral outgrowth at a time when the intestine is first drawn out into the324 THE INTESTINE. umbilicus. During subsequent development it continues to ni^rease injize until it forms a conical pouch arising from the colon just where it is joined by the small intes- tine (Fig. 179). The enlargement of its terminal portion does not keep pace, however, with that of the portion near- est the intestine, but it becomes grad- ually more and more marked off from it by its lesser caliber and gives rise to the vermiform appendix. At birth the original conical form of the entire outgrowth is still quite evi- dent, though it is more properly de- scribed as funnel-shaped, but later the proximal part, continuing to in- FiG. 179.—C/EcuM OF crease in diameter at the same rate Embryo of 10.2 cm. colon, becomes sharply sepa- c, Colon; i, ileum. ' , . rated from the appendix, forming the caecum of adult anatomy. Up to the time when the embryo has reached a length of 14 mm., the inner surface of the intestine is quite smooth, but when a length of 19 mm. has been reached, the mucous membrane of the upper portion becomes thrown into longi- tudinal folds, and later these make their appearance through- out its entire length (Fig. 180). Later, in embryos of 60 mm., these folds break up into numbers of conical processes, the villi, which increase in number with the development of the intestine, the new villi appearing in the intervals between those already present. A remarkable phenomenon has recently been described as occurring in the duodenum of embryos of about 12.5 mm. It consists in a rapid growth in the thickness of the mucous"riiem- brane, whereby the lumen of the intestine immediately below the opening of the hepatic and pancreatic ducts becomes greatly reduced in size and is finally completely obliterated. This condition persists until the embryo has reached a length of 14.5THE LIVER. represents the ductus choledochus (Fig. 181). mm., when the lumen again appears (Tandler). This process.' is interesting in connection with the occasional _occurrenc£_iii new-born children, of an atresia of the duodenum. " ■ — » The Development of the Liver.—The liver makes its appearance in embryos of about 3 mm. as a longitudinal groove upon the v_entral surface of the archenteron_ just Ijelow the stomach ^nd between it and the umbilicus. The endodermal cells lining- the anteri9|- yprtion of the groove early undergo a rapid proliferation, andform a solid mass which projects ventrally into the substance of a horizontal Fig. 180.—Reconstruction of a Portion of the Intestine of an Embryo OF 28 mm., showing the Longitudinal Folds from which the Villi are Formed.—(5(^rrj-.) the segtuiu trims_Y£i:sum__(see p. 337), attached to t]}e„veiitry_jvdLof_t^^^ This solid mass (Fig. 181, ^) form.the beginning of the liver proper, while the lower portion of the groove, which remains hollow, represents the future gall-bladder TFig. 181, B). Constrictions appe^: ing between the intestine and both the hepatic and cystic portions of the organ gradually separate these from the intestine, until they are nnited to it only by a stalk which326 THE LIVER. The further development of the hver, so far as its exter- nal form is concerned, consists in the mpid enlargement of the hepatic portion until it occupies_ihe^grgaler_^ upper half of the abdominal cavity, its ventral edge extend- ing as far down as the umbilicus. In the rabbit its Tub- stance becomes divided into four lobes corresponding to the four veins, umbilical and omphalo-mesenteric, which trav- erse it, and the same condition occurs in the human embryo, although the lobes are not so clearly indicated upon the Fig. i8i.—Reconstructions of the Liver Outgrowths of Rabbit Embryos of (A) 5 ^mm. and (B) of 8 mm. B, Gall-bladder; d, duodenum; DV, ductus venosus; L, liver; p, dorsal pancreas; pm, ventral pancreas; rL, right lobe of the liver; S, stomach.—(Hammar.) surface_s-s in the rabbit. The two omphalo-mesenteric lobes are in close_apposition and may almost be regarded as one, a median ventral lobe which embraces the ductus venosus (Fig. 181, B, DV), while the umbilical lobes are more lat- eral and dorsal and re_present the right^(rL) and left lobes of _tjie adult liver. The remaining definite lobes, the cau- date__(Spigelian) and quadrate, are of later_jormation,THE LIVER. Standing in relation to the vessels which cross__the lower surface of the liver.— The ductus choledochus is at first wide and short, and near its proximal end gives rise to a small outgrowth on each side, one of which becomes the^ventral pancreas (Fig. 181, B, pm). I^terJhe^dlldLdimga^ becomes more slender, and the gall-bladder i_s_constricted. o_ff Jrom it, the "connecting stalk becoming the cystic duct The Jiepatic Fig. 182.—Transverse Section through the Liver of an Embryo OF Four Months. tHj Intestine; /, liver; W, Wolffian body.— {Toldt and Zuckerkandl.) ducts are apparently developed from the liver substance and are relatively late in appearing. Shortly after the hepatic portion has been differentiated its substance becomes permeated by numerous blood-vessels (sinusoids) and so divided into anastomosing trabeculge (Fig. 182). These are at first irregular in size and shape, but later they become more slender and more regularly cylindrical, forming what have been termed the hepatic cylinders^___h\ the center of each cvlinder. where the cells328 THE LIVER. which form it meet togetlier, a fine canal appears, the begin- ning of a bile capillary, the cyhnders thiis^becomingLcon- verted into tubes with fine Kiniina, This occurs at about the fourth week of development and at this time a cross- section of a cylinder shows it to be composed of about three or four hepatic cells (Fig. 183, A), among which are to be seen groups of smaller cells (e) which are erythrocytes, the liver having assumed by this time its haematopoietic Fig. 183.—Transverse Sections of Portions of the Liver of (A) A Fetus of Six Months and (j5) a Child of Four Years. be, Bile capillary; e, erythrocyte; he, hepatic cylinder.—(Toand Zuekerkandl.) function (see p. 238). This condition of affairs persists until birth, but later the cylinders undergo an elongation, the cells of which they are composed slipping over one an- other apparently, so that the cylinders become thinner as well as longer and show for the most part only two cells in a transverse section (Fig. 183, B) ; and in still later periods the two cells, instead of lying opposite one another, may alternate, so that the cylinders become even more slender.THE LIVER. The bile capillaries seem to make their appearance first in cylinders which lie in close relation to branches of the portal vein (Fig. 184), and thence extend throughout the neighboring cylinders, anastomosing with capillaries devel- oping in relation to neighboring portal branches. As the extension so proceeds the older capillaries continue to en- large and later become transformed into hile-ducts (Fig. 184, C), the cells of the cylinders in which these capillaries were situated becoming converted into the epithelial lining of the ducts. ■ The lobules, which form so characteristic a feature of Fig. 184.—Injected Bile Capillaries of Pig Embryos of {A) 8 cm., (5) 16 CM., AND (C) OF Adult Fig.—(Hendrickson.) the adult liver, are late in appearing, not being fully devel- oped until some time after birth. They depend upon the relative arrangement of the branches of the portal and hepatic veins; these at first occupy distinct territories 01 the liver substance, being separated from one another by practically the entire thickness of the liver, although of course connected by the capillaries which lie between the hepatic cylinders. During development the two sets of branches extend more deeply into the liver substance each invadmg the territory of the other, but they can read'ily be 29330 TtLE LIVER. distinguished from one another by the fact that the portal branches are enclosed within a sheath of connective tissue (Glisson's capsule) which is lacking to the hepatic vessels. At about the time of birth the branches of the hepatic veins give of¥ at intervals bunches' of terminal vessels, around which branches of the portal vein arrange themselves, the liver tissue becoming divided up into a number of areas which may be termed hepatic islands, each of which is sur- rounded by a number of portal branches and contains numerous dichotomously branching hepatic terminals. Later the portal branches sink into the substance of the islands, which thus become lobed, and finally the sinking in extends so far that the original-island becomes separated into a number of smaller areas or lobules, each containing, as a rule, a single hepatic terminal (the intralobular vein) and being surrounded by a number of portal terminals {interlobular veins), the two systems being united by the capillaries which separate the cylinders contained within the area. The lobules are at first very small, but later they increase in size by the extension of the hepatic cylinders. Frequently in the human liver lobules are to be found con- taining two intralobular veins, a condition which results from an imperfect subdivision of a lobe of the original hepatic island. The liver early assumes a relatively large size, its weight at one time being equal to that of the rest of the body, and though in later embryonic stages its relative size dimin- ishes, yet at birth it is still a voluminous organ, occupying the greater portion of the upper half of the abdominal cavity and extending far over into the left hypochondrium. Just after birth there is, however, a cessation of growth, and the subsequent increase proceeds at a much slower rate than that of the rest of the body, so that its relative size becomes still more diminished (see Chap. XVII). The cessation of growth affects principally the left lobe and isTHE PANCREAS.' accompanied by" an actual degeneration of portions of the liver tissue, the cells disappearing completely, while the ducts and blood-vessels originally present persist, the for- mer constituting the va-sa aberrantia of adult anatomy.. These are usually especially noticeable at the left edge' of the liver, between the folds of the left lateral . *^ ligament, but they may also be found along the line of the vena cava, around the gall-bladder, and in the region, of the left longitudinal fissure. The Development of the Pancreas.—The pan- creas arises a little later than the liver^ as three separate outgrowths, one from the dorsal surface of the duodenum (Fig. 185, DP) usually a little above the liver outgrowth, and one oh each side from the lower part of the com- mon bile-duet. Of the latter outgrowths, that upon the J_e.ft side (Vps) early begins to degenerate and completely disap- pears, while that of"the right side (Vpd) con- FlG. 185.—RiA u.\ .^iRUCTION OF THE Pancreatic Outgrowths of an Embryo of 7.5 mm. D, Duodenum; Dc, ductus communis choledochus; DP, dorsal pancreas; Vpd, and Vps, right and left ven- tral pancreas.— (Helly.) tinues its development_to^orm_what has been termed the ventral pancreas. Both this and the dorsal pancreas continue toilongale^thTlatter lying to the left of the portal vilH' wKiTe332 THE PANCREAS. the former, at first situated to the right of the vein, later grows across its ventral surface so as to come into contact with the dorsal gland, with which it fuses so intimately that no separation line can be distinguished. The body and tail of the adult pancreas represent the original dorsal oiitgrowth, while the right__ventral pancreas becomes the head. Both the dorsal and ventral outgrowths early become lobed, and the lobes becoming secondarily lobed and this lobation repeating itself several times, the conipquiid^tubu- .lar^structure of the adult gland is acquired, the very numer- ous terminal lobules becoming the secreting acini, while the remaining portions become the ducts. Of the principal ducts, there are , at first two :, that of the__dorsal pancreas, the duct of Santorini, opens into the duodenum on its dorsal surface, while that of the ventral outgrowth, the duct of pyirsuiig, opens into the ductus choledochus. When the fusion of the two portions of the gland occurs, an anastomo- sis of branches of the two ducts develops and the jDroximal portion of thejluct of Santorini usually degenerates, solEaT the secretion of the entire gland empties into the common bile-ducts through the duct of Wirsung\_ In the coiinecth^gjdssue which separates the lobules of the gland, groups of cells occur, which have no connection with the ducts of the gland, and form what are termed the areas of T.anfrgrhnns. They arise by a differentiation of tTi^ fplk AA/huji form the orifi^inal pancxeatic outgrowths, and have been distinguished in the dorsal pancreas of the guinea-pig while it is still a solid outgrowth. They gradu- ally separate from the remainjiTgicells of the outgrowtlxand rnnipTrrTie in thejTTgsenchvme of the gland in groupsJoto^ YxdnchTfi^any. blood2vessels_penetrate.333 LITERATURE. LITERATURE. E. T. Bell: "The Development of the Thymus," Amer. Journ. of Anat., V, 1906. J. M. Berry : " On the Development of the Villi of the Human In- testine," Anat. Anzeiger, xvi, 1900. J. Bracket : " Recherches sur le cleveloppement du pancreas et du foie," Journ. de I'Anat. et de la Physiol., xxxii, 1896. J. H. Chievitz : " Beitrage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Speichcl- driisen," Archiv fur Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Ahth., 1885. . K. Groschuff : " Ueber das Vorkommen eines Thymussegmentes der vierten Kiementasche beim Menschen," Anat. Anzeiger, xvii, 1900. J. A. Hammar: " Einige Plattenmodelle zur Beleuchtung der friiheren embryonal Leberentwicklung," Arch. f. Anat. und Phys., Anat. Ahth., 1893. J. A. Hammar: " Studien iiber die Eiitwicklung des Vorderdarms und einiger angrenzenden Organe," Arch. f. mikrosk. Anat., Lix and Lx, 1902. K. Helly: "Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Pancreasanlagen und Duodenalpapillen des Menschen," Archil' fur mikrosk. Anat., lvi. 1900. K. Helly : " Studien iiber Langerhanssche Inseln," Arch, fiir mikrosk. Anat., lxvii, 1907. W. F. Hendrickson: "The Development of the Bile-capillaries as revealed by Golgi's Method," Johns Hopkins Hospital Bulletin, 1898. W. His: "Anatomie menschlicher Embryonen," Leipzig, 1882-1886. F. Keibel: "Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte des menschlichen Urogeni- tal-apparatus," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1896. G. Killian: "Uber die Bursa und Tonsilla pharyngea," Morphol. Jahrbuch, xiv, 1888. A. Kohn: "Die Epithelkorperchen," Ergebnisse der Anat. und Ent- wicklungsgesch., ix, 1899. F. P. Mall: "Ueber die Entwickelung des menschlichen Darmes und seiner Lage beim Erwachsenen," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Abth.. Supplement, 1897. F. P. Mall: "A Study of the Structural Unit of the Liver," Amer. Journ. of Anat., y, 1906. J. F. Meckel: " Bildungsgeschichte des Darmkanals der Saugethiere und namentlich des Menschen," Archiv fur Anat. und Physiol., iii 1817. W. J. Otis: "Die Morphogenese und Histogenese des Analh5ckers nebst Bermerkungen iiber die Entwicklung der Sphincter ani ex- ternus beim Menschen, Anat. Hefte, xxx, 1906. R. M. Pearce: "The Development of the Islands of Langerhans in the Human Embryo," Amer. Journ. of Anat., n, 1902.334 LITERATURE. A. PoLZL: " Zur Entwicklungsgeschichte des menschlichen Gaumens," Anat. Hefte, xxvii, 1905. C. Rose: " Ueber die Entwicklung der Zahne des Menschen," Archiv fur mikrosk. Anat., xxxviii^ 1891. A. SwAEN: " Recherches sur le developement du foie, du tube digestif, de Tarriere-cavite du peritoine et du mesentere," Journ. de I'Anat. et de la Physiol., xxxii, 1896, and xxxiii, 1897. J. Tandler: "Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte des menschlichen Duode- num in friihen Embryonalstadien," Morphol. Jahrbuch, xxix, 1900. C. ToLDT AND E. ZucKERKANDL: " Ueber die Form und Texturveran- derungen der menschlichen Leber wahrend des Wachsthums," Sits- ungsber. der kais. Akad. Wissensch. Wien., Math.-Naturzmss. Classe, Lxxii, 1875. F. TouRNEUX AND P. Verdun : " Sur les premiers developpements de la Thyroide, du Thymus et des glandes parathyroidiennes chez I'homme," Journ. de I'Anat. et de la Physiol, xxxiii, 1897. F. Treves : " Lectures on the Anatomy of the Intestinal Canal and Peritoneum in Man," British Medical Journal, i, 1885.'335 CHAPTER XI THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PERICARDIUM, THE PLEURO-PERITONEUM AND THE DIAPHRAGM. It has been seen (p. 241) that the heajt makes its appear- ance at a stage when the greater portion of the ventral sur- face of the intestine is still open to the yolk-sac. The ven- tral mesoderm splits to form the somatic and splanchnic layers" and the heart developgi'^as a fold in the latte?^on each side of the median line, projecting into the coelomic cavity enclosed by the two layers (Fig. 130, As the constric- tion of the anterior part of the embryo proceeds the two heart folds are brought nearer together and later meet, so. that_the heart becomes a cylindrical structure lxing_in_the median line of the body and is suspended in the coelom by a ventral band, the ventral mesocardium, composed of two layers of splanchnic mesoderm which extend to it from the ventral wall of the body, and by a similar band, the dorsal mesocardium, which unites it with the splanchnic mesoderm surrounding the digestive^Jract. The ventral mesocardium soon disappears (Fig. 130, C) and the'dorsarone also van- ishes somewhat later, so that the heart comes to lie freely in the coelomic cavity, except for the connections which it makes with the body-walls by the vessels which enter and arise from it. The coelomic cavity of the embryo does not at first com- municate with the extra-embryonic coelom^ which is formed at a very early period (see p. 69), but later^whenTheTplit- ting of the embryonic mesoderm takes place the two cavities33^ THE PERICARDIUM AND PLEURO-PERITONEUM. become continnous behind tlic liearl, 1)nt not anteriorly, since the ventral \\all qfjhe bud)^ is formed in the heartl-egioTT i before the union can take place. It is possible, therefore, to recognize J:wo portions in the embryonic coelom. an anterior one, the J)arietal cavity (His), which is never connected later- ally with the extra-embryonic oavity, and a posterior one, the tnmk cavity, which is so con- nected. The heart is situated in the parietal cavity._a consider- able portion of_wJi]ch is destined to. become thepericardial_cavity. Since the parietal^ cavity lies hnmediatelx anterior to the still wide yolk-stalk, as may be seen from the position of the heart in the embryo shown in Fig. 42, it is bounded posteriorly by the yolk-stalk. This boundary is complete, however, only in the median line, the cavity be- ing continuous on either side of the yolk-stalk with the trunk- cavity by passages which have been termed the recessus parie- tales_XF\g. 186, Bp and Rca). Passing forward toward tlie heart in the_ splanchnic meso- derm which surrounds the yolk- stalk are the large omphalo-mesenterLc. veijis, one on either side^ and these ^hqrtly become so large_^_Jo_j3ring the splanchnic mesoderm in which they lie in contact with the Out Rca. Fig. 186.—Reconstruction OF A Rabbit Embryo of Eight Days, with the Pericardial Cavity Laid Open. A, Auricle; Aoh, aortic bulb; A.V., auriculo-ven- tricular communication; Bp, ventral parietal re- cess ; Om, omphalo-mes- enteric vein; Pc, peri- cardial cavity; Rca, dor- sal parietal recess; Sv, sinus venosus; V, ventri- cle.— (His.)THE PERICARDIUM AND PLEURO-PERITONEUM. 337 somatic mes_oderm which forms the lateral wall of each recess. Fusion of the two layers of mesoderm along the course of the veins now take place, and, each recess thus becomes divided into two parallel passages, which^have been termed the dorsal (Fig. 187, r/)i/)_and__ve_ntral .(^/'^) parie- tal recesses. Laterithe^two. veins fuse in the upper portion oflheir course to form the beginning of the sinus venosus, with the result that the venb:al_ recesses become dosed below and their continuity withjhe_t.nink-cavityj^^^ so that they form two blind pouches extending down\vard a short distance from the ventral poi;^^on^f the floor of the Fig. 187.—Transverse Sections of a Rabbit Embryo showing the Division of the Parietal Recesses by the Omphalo-mesenteric Veins. am, Amnion; rp, parietal recess; rpd and rpv, dorsal and ventral divi- sions of the parietal recess; vom, omphalo-mesenteric vein.— (Ravn.) p3£i5tal_cayity,.. The dorsal recesses, however, retain their continuity with the trunk-cavity until a much later period. By the fusion of the omphalo-mesenteric veins mentioned above, there is formed a thick semilunar fold which projects horizontally into the ccelom from the ventral wall of the body and forms the floor of the ventral part of the parietal recess. This is known as the septum transversuni, and ^ besides containing the anterior portions of the omphalo- mesenteric veins, it also furnishes a passage by which the 3033^ THE PERICARDIUM AND PLEURO-PERITONEUM. ductus Cuvieri, formed by the union of the jugular and car- dinal veins, reach the heart. Its dorsal edge is continuous; in the niedian line with the mesoderm surrounding the diges- tive tract just opposite the region where the liver outgrowth will form, but laterally this edge is free and forms the ven- tral walls of the dorsal parietal recess. An idea of the rela- tions of the septum at this stage may be obtained from Fig. ajn Fig i88.—Reconstruction from a Rabbit Embryo of Nine Days SHOWING THE SePTUM TrANSVERSUM FROM AbOVE. am, A-mnion; af, atrium; dc, ductus Cuvieri; rpd, dorsal parietal recess. —(Ravn.) 188, which represents the anterior surface of the septum, together with the related parts, in a rabbit embryo of nine days. The Separation of the Pericardial Cavity.—The septum transversum is at first almost horizontal, but laterjt becomes339 THE DIAPHRAGM. decidedly obliquejn position, a rliange associatedjith^the backward movement of the heart. As the closure^of the ventral wall of the body extends posteriorly the ventral edge of the septum gradually slips downward upon it, while the dorsal edge is held in its former position by its attachment to the wall of jthe digestive tract an^ the ductus _Cuvieri. The anterior surface of the septum thus comes to look ven- trally as well as forward, and the parietal cavity, having taken up into itself the blind pouches which represented the ventral recesses, comes to lie to a large extent ventral to the posterior recesses. As may be seen from Fig. i88, the ductus Cuvieri. as they bend from the lateral walls of the body into the free edges of the septum, form a marked' projection which diminishes considerably the opening of the dorsal recesses into the parietal cavity. In later stages this projection increases and from ifs dorsal edge a fold, which may be regarded as a continuation of the free edge of the septum, projects into the upper portions of the recesses and eventually fuses with the median portion of the septum attached to the wall of the gut. In this way the parietal cavity becomes a completely closed sac, and is henceforward known as the pericardial cavity, the original ccelom being now divided into two portions, (i) the pericardial, and (2) the pleuro-peritoneal cavities, the latter consisting of the abdominal coelom together with the two dorsal parietal recesses which have been separated from the pericardial (parietal) cavity and are destined to be converted into the pleural cavities. The Formation of the Diaphragm.—It is to be remem- bered that the attachment of the transverse septum to the ventral wall of the digestive tract is opposite the point where the liver outgrowth develops. When, therefore, the out- growth appears, it pushes its way into the substance of the septum, which thus acquires a very considerable thickness,THE DIAPHRAGM. 340 especially toward its dorsal edge, and it furthermore be- comes differentiated into two layers, an upper one, which forms the floor of the ventral portion of the pericardial cavity and encloses" the Cuvierian ducts, and a lower one which contains the liver. The upper layer is comparatively tilE'.-W^^^^^ the lower forms the greater part of the thickness of the septum, its posterior surface meeting the ventral wall of the abdomen at the level of the anterior margin of the umbilicus (Fig. 189, A). In later stages of development the layer containing the Fig. 189.—Diagrams of (A) a Sagittal Section of an Embryo show- ing THE Liver Enclosed within the Septum Transversum ; (5) A Frontal Section of the Same; (C) a Frontal Section of a Later Stage when the Liver has Separated from the Dia- phragm. All, Allantois; CI, cloaca; D, diaphragm; Li, liver; Ls, falciform liga- ment of the liver; M, mesentery; Mg, mesogastrium; Pc, peri- cardium; S, stomach; ST, septum transversum; U, umbilicus. liver becomes separated from the upper layer by two grooves which, appearing at the sides and ventrally immediately above the liver (Fig. 189, B), gradually deepen toward the median line and dorsally. These grooves do not, however, quite reach the median line, ajportion of the lower la3'er of the septum being left in this region as a fold, situated in the sagittal plane of the body and attached above to theTHE DIAPHRAGM. posterior surface of the upper layer and below to the ante- rior surface of the liver, beyond which it is continued down the ventral wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus (Fig. 189, C, Ls). This is the falciform ligament of the liver of adult anatomy, and in the free edge of its prolongation clown the ventral wall of the abdomen the umbilical vein passes to the under surface of the liver, while the free edge of that por- tion which lies between the liver and the digestive tract con- tains the omphalo-mesenteric (portal) vein, the common bile-duct, and the hepatic artery. The diagram given in Fig. 184 will, it is hoped, make clear the mode of formation and the relation of this fold, which, in its entirety, consti- tutes what is sometimes termed the ventral mesentery. And not only do the grooves fail to unite in the median line, but they also fail to completely separate the liver from the upper layer of the septum dorsally, the portion of the lower layer which persists in this region forming the coro- imr^ %am^2^^/_of the liver. The portion of the lower^ layer which forms the roof of the grooves becomes the layer of peritoneum covering the posterior surface of the upper layer (which represents the diaphragm), while^tjie portion which remains connected with the liver constitutes its jDeritoiieal investment. In the meantime changes have been taking place in the upper layer. As the rotation of the heart occurs, so that its atrial portion comes to lie anterior to the ventricle, the Cuvierian ducts are drawn away from the septum and l^nf*£ate the posterior wall of the pericardium, the se£a- ration iDeing assisted by Jhe continued descent _oTjhe~ at:: *3.9hment of the edge of the septum to the ventral wall of the body. During the descent, when the upper layer of the septum has reached the level of the fourth cervical seg- ment, portions of the myotomes of that segmenTbecoiTie prolonged into it and the layer assumes the characteristics342 TI-IE PLEURA. of tlie diaphragm, the supply of whose musculature from the fourth cervical nerves is thus explained. The Pleurce.—The diaphragm is as yet, however, incom- plete dorsally, where the dorsal parietal recesses are still in continuity with the trunk-cavity. With the increase in thickness of the septum transversum, these recesses have acquired a considerable length antero-posteriorly, and into their upper portions the outgrowths from the lower part of the pharynx which form the lungs (see page 353) begin to project. The recesses thus become transformed into the pleural cavities, and as the diaphragm continues to descend, slipping down the ventral wall of the body and drawing with it the pericardial cavity, the latter comes to lie entirely ventral to the pleural cavities. The free borders of the diaphragm, which now form the ventral boundaries of the openings by which the pleural and peritoneal cavities communicate, begin to approach the dorsal wall of the body, with which they finally unite and so complete the separation of the cavities. The pleural cavities continue to enlarge after their separation and, extending laterally, pass between the pericardium and the lateral walls of the body until they finally almost completely surround the pericardium. The intervals between the two pleurae form what are termed the 7nediastina. The downward movement of the septum transversum extends through a very considerable interval, which may be appreciated from the diagram shown in Fig. 190. From this it may be seen that in early embryos the septum is situ- ated just in front of the first cervical segment and that it lies very obliquely, its free edge being decidedly posterior to its ventral attachment. When the downward displace- ment occurs, the ventral edge at first moves more rapidly than the dorsal, and soon comes to lie at a much lower level. The backward movement continues throughout the entireTHE PERITONEUM. 343 1 Oumoa£ length of the cervical and thoracic regions, and when the level of the tenth thoracic segment is reached the separation of the pleural and peritoneal cavities is completed, and then the dorsal edge begins to descend more rapidly than the ventral, so that the diaphragm again becomes oblique in the same sense as in the beginning, a position which it retains in, the adult. The Development of the Peritoneum.—The peritoneal cavity is developed from the trunk-cavity of early stages and is at first in free commu- nication on all sides of the yolk-stalk with the extra-em- bryonic coelom. As the ven- tral wall of the body develops the two cavities become more and more separated, and with the formation of the umbili- cal cord the separation is com- plete. Along the mid-dorsal line of the body the archenteron forms a projection into the cavity and later moves further out from the body-wall into the cavity, pushing in front of it the peritoneum, which thus comes to surround the intestine, forming its serous coat, and from it is continued back to the dorsal body-wall forming the mesentery. It has already been seen that on the separation of the liver from the septum transversum, the tissue of the latter gives rise to the peritoneal covering of the liver and of the posterior surface of the diaphragin, and also to the ventral Fig. 190.—Diagram showing THE Position of the Dia- phragm IN Embryos of Dif- ferent Ages.—{Mall.)THE PERITONEUM. 344 mesentery. When the separation is taking place, tlie rota- tion of the stomach already descril^ed (p. 319) occurs, with the result that the portion of the ventral mesentery which stretches between the lesser curvature of the stomach and the liver shares in the rotation and comes to lie in a plane practically at right angles with that of the suspensory ligament, its surfaces looking dorsally and ventrally and its free edge being directed toward the right. This portion of the ventral mesentery forms what is termed the ksser omentum, and between it and the dorsal surface of the stomach as the ventral boundaries, and the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity dorsally, there is a cavity, whose floor is formed by the dorsal mesentery of the stomach, the meso- gastrium, the roof by the under surface of the left half of the liver, while to the right it communicates with the gen- eral peritoneal cavity dorsal to the free edge of the lesser omentum. This cavity is known as the bursa omentalis (lesser sac of the peritoneum), and the opening into it from the general cavity or greater sac is termed the epiploic fora- men (foramen of Winslow). Later, the floor of the lesser sac is drawn downward to form a broad sheet of peritoneum lying ventral to the coils of the small intestine and consist- ing of four layers; this represents the great omentum of adult anatomy (Fig. 194). Although the form assumed by the bursa omentalis is associated with the rotation of the stomach, it seems prob- able that its real origin is independent of that process (Bro- man). The subserous tissue of the transverse septum is at first thick and includes not only the liver, but also the pan- creas and the portion of the digestive tract which becomes the stomach and the upper part of the duodenum (Fig. 189, A). The shrinkage of this tissue by which these organs become separated from the septum cannot take place evenly on account of the relations which the organs bearTHE PERITONEUM. 345 to one another, so that on the right side certain peritoneal recesses are formed, one between the right king and the stomach, a second between the hver and the stomach, and a third between the pancreas and the same structure. In man these three recesses communicate with one another to form the primary bursa omentahs, and open by a common epiploic foramen into the general peritoneal cavity. The rotation of the stomach, which takes place later, merely serves to modify and intensify the original bursa. In the human embryo a small recess also forms upon the left side between the left lung and the stomach, but it later becomes obliterated. Below the level of the upper part of the duodenum the ventral mesentery is wanting; only the dorsal mesentery occurs. So long as the intestine is a straight tube the length of the intestinal edge of this mesentery is practically equal to that of its dorsal attached edge. The intes- tine, however, increasing in length much more rapidly than the ab- dominal walls, the intestinal edse of the mesentery soon becomes very much longer than the attached edge, and when the intestine grows Fic. 191.—Diagra out into the umbilical coelom the mesentery accompanies it (Fig. 191). As the coils of the intestine develop, the intestinal edge of the mesentery is thrown into corres- ponding folds, and on the return of the intestine to the abdominal cavity the mesentery is thrown into a somewhat funnel-like form by the twisting of M SHOW- ING THE Arrangement OF THE Mesentery and Visceral Branches of THE Abdominal Aorta IN an Embryo of Si.\ Weeks. p, Pancreas; S, stomach; Sp, spleen.— (Toldt.)346 THE PERITONEUM. the intestine to form its primary loop (Fig. 192). All that portion of the mesentery which is attached to the part of the intestine which will later become the jejunum, ileum, ascending- and transverse colon, is attached to the body- wall at the apex of the funnel, at a point which lies to the left of the duodenum. Up to this stage or to about the middle of the fourth month the mesentery has retained its attachment to the median line of the dorsal wall of the abdomen throughout A £ Fig. 192.—Diagrams Illustrating the Development of the Great Omentum and the Transverse Mesocolon. bid, Caecum; dd, small intestine; dg, yolk-stalk; di, colon; du, duode- num ; gc, greater curvature of stomach; gg, bile duct; gn, meso- gastriuni; k, point where the loops of the intestine cross; mc, mesocolon; md, rectum; mes, mesentery; wf, vermiform appendix. — {Herhvig.) its entire length, but later fusions of certain portions occur, whereby the original condition is greatly modified. One of the earliest of these fusions takes place at the apex of the funnel, where the portion of the mesentery which passes to the transverse colon and arches over the duode- num fuses with the ventral surface of the latter portion of the intestine and also with the peritoneum covering theTHE PERITONEUM. 347 dorsal wall of the abdomen both to the right and to the left of the duodenum. In this way the attachment of the transverse mesocolon takes the form of a transverse line instead of a point, and this portion of the mesentery divides the abdominal cavity into two portions, the upper (ante- rior) of which contains the liver and stomach, while the lower contains the remainder of the digestive tract with the exception of the duodenum. By passing across the ventral surface of the duodenum and fusing with it, the Fig. 193.—Diagrams Illustrating the Manner in which the Fixa- tion OF the Descending Colon (C) takes Place. transverse mesocolon forces that portion of the intestine against the dorsal wall of the abdomen and fixes it in that position, and its mesentery thereupon degenerates, becom- ing subserous areolar tissue, the duodenum assuming the retroperitoneal position which characterizes it in the adult. The descending colon, which on account of the width of its mesentery is at first freely movable, lies well over to the left side of the abdominal cavity, and in consequence the left layer_of its mesentery lies in contact with the parietal layerjjf the peritoneum. A fusion of these two layers, beginningnear the middle line and thence extend-THE PERITONEUM. 348 ing uutvvard, takes place, the fused layers becoming con- verted into connective tissue, and this portion of the colon tlius^loses its mesentery aiid becomes fixed to tlie^^bdominal \valL The process by which the fixation is accomplished may be understood from the diagrams which constitute Fig. 193. When the ascending colon is formed, its mesen- tery undergoes a similar fusion, and it also becomes fixed to the abdominal wall. The fusion of the mesentery of the ascending and descend- ing colon remains incomplete in a considerable number of cases (one fourth to one third of all cases examined), and in these the colons are not perfectly fixed to the abdominal wall. It may also be pointed out that the caecum and appendix, being primarily a lateral outpouching of the intestine, do not possess any true mesentery, but are completely enclosed by peritoneum. Usually a falciform fold of peritoneum may be found extend- ing along one surface of the appendix to become continuous with the left layer*of the mesentery of the ileum. This, how- ever, is not a true mesentery, and is better spoken of as a mesenteriole. One other fusion is still necessary before the adult condi- tion of the mesentery is acquired. The great omentum consists of two folds of peritoneum which start from the greater curvature of the stomach and pass downward to be reflected up again to the dorsal wall of the abdomen, which they reach just anterior to (above) the line of attach- ment of the transverse mesocolon (Fig. 194, A). At first the attachment of the omentum is vertical, since it repre- sents the mesogastrium, but later, by fusion with the parietal peritoneum, it assumes a transverse direction, while at the same time the pancreas, which originally lay between the two folds of the mesogastrium, is carried dorsally and comes to have a retroperitoneal position in the line of at- tachment of the omentum. By this change the lower layer of the omentum is brought in contact with the upper layer of the transverse mesocolon and a fusion and degeneration349 THE PERITONEUM. of the two results (Fig. 194, B), a condition which brings it about that the omentum seems to be attached to the trans- verse colon and that the pancreas seems to lie in the line of attachment of the transverse mesocolon. This mesentery, as it occurs in the adult, really consists partly of a portion of the original transverse mesocolon and partly of a layer of the great omentum. By these various changes the line of attachment of the Fig. 194.—Diagrams showing the Development of the Great Omen- tum AND ITS Fusion with the Transverse Mesocolon. % B, Bladder; c, tranverse colon; d, duodenum; Li, liver; p, pancreas; R, rectum; S, stomach; U, uterus.— {After Allen Thomson.) mesentery to the dorsal wall of the body has become some- what complicated and has departed to a very considerable extent from its original simple vertical arrangement. If all the viscera be removed from the body of an adult andTHE PERITONEUM. 350 the mesentery be cut close to the Hue of its attachment, the course of the latter will be seen to be as follows: De- scending from the under surface of the diaphragm are the lines of attachment of the suspensory ligament, which on reaching the liver spread out to become the coronary and lateral ligaments of that organ. At about the mid-dorsal line these lines become continuous with those of the meso- gastrium which curve downward toward the left and are continued into the transverse lines of the transverse meso- colon. Between these last, in a slight prolongation, there may be seen to the right the cut end of the first portion of the duodenum as it passes back to the dorsal wall of the abdomen, and at about the mid-dorsal line the cut ends of its last part become visible as it passes ventrally again to become the jejunum. From the transverse mesocolon three lines of attachment pass downward; the two lateral broad ones represent the lines of fixation of the ascending and descending colons, while the narrower median one, which curves to the right, represents the attachment of the mesentery of the small intestine other than the duodenum. Finally, from the lower end of the fixation line of the descending colon, the mesentery of the sigmoid is continued downward. The special developments of the peritoneum in connec- tion with the genito-urinary apparatus will be considered in Chapter XIII. LITERATURE. I. Broman: "Ueber die Entwicklung und Bedeutung der Mesenterien und der Korperhohlen bei den Wirbeltieren," Ergebn. der Anat. u. Entiu.,, XV, 1906. A. Bracket: "Die Entwickelung der grossen Korperhohlen und ihre Trennung von Einander," Ergebnisse der Anat. und Entwick- elungsgesch., vii, 1898. W. His: " Mittheilungen zur Embryologie der Saugethiere und des Menschen," Archiv fur Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1881. F. P. Mall: "Development of the Human Coelom," Jounml of Mor- phol, XII, 1897.LITERATURE. E. Ravn : " Ueber die Bildung der Scheidewand zwischen Brust- und Bauchhohle in Saugethierembryonen," Archiv fur Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1889. A. SwAEN: " Recherches sur le developpement du foie, du tube di- gestif, de I'arriere-cavite du peritoine et du mesentere," Journ. de I'Anat. et de la Physiol., xxxiii, 1896; xxxiii, 1897. C. ToLDT: " Bau und Wachstumsveranderungen der Gekrose des menschlichen Darmkanals," Denkschr. der kais. Akad. Wissensch. VVien, Math.-Naturzviss. Classe, xli, 1879. C. ToLDT: " Die Darmgekrose und Netze im gesetzmassigen und gesetz- widrigen Zustand," Denkschr. der kais. Akad. Wissensch. Wien, Math.-Naturzviss. Classe, Lvi, 1889. F. Treves : " Lectures on the Anatomy of the Intestinal Canal and Peritoneum," British Medical Journal, i, 1885.CHAPTER XII. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. The Development of the Lungs.—Thelirst indication of the lungs and trachea is found in embryos of about 32 mm. in the form of a groove on the ventral surface of the oesophagus, at first extending almost the entire length of that portion of the digestive tract. As the oesophagus lengthens the lung groove remains connected with its upper portion (Fig. 175, A), and furrows which appear along the line of junction of the groove and the oeso- phagus gradually deepen and separate the two struc- tures (Fig. 175, B). The separation takes place earli- est at the lower end of the groove and thence extends upward, so that the groove Fig. 195.—Portion of a Section transformed intoTcvHrT- THROUGH AN EmBRYO OF THE IS iranSIOUHeU lllLU d^^XLiiL Fourth Week. drical pouch lying ventral A, Aorta; DC, ductus Cuvieri; L tolhe"oesophagu^^ lung; O, oesophagus; RP, parietal ^aj__uic_^^;0^^j_ 1, recess; VOm, omphalo-mesenteric gal tO the heart and Open- xtm.-Croldt.) .^^^ ^^j^l^ ^j^g oesophagus into the terminal portion of the pharynx. Soon after the separation of the groove from the oesoph- agus its lower_end becomes_enlarged ajtdJbilQlml, and since this iWeTlmniesTwitiri^ oesophagus, in the median 35- RF353 THE LUNGS. attached portion of the dorsal edge of the septum transver- sum, the_lqbes, as_thev_enlaTge. pip^^^ the dorsal parietal recesses_(Fig. 195), and so become enclosed within the_peritoneal lining of the recesses which later become the pleural cavities^ The lobes, which represent the lungs, do not long remain simple, but bud^like processes,arise from their cavities, three appearing in the right lobe and two in the left (Fig. 196, c Fig. 196.—Reconstruction of the Lung Outgrowths of Embryos OF (A) 10, (B) 8.5, AND (C) ICS MM. Ap, Pulmonary artery; Ep, eparterial bronchus; Vp, pulmonary vein; /, second lateral bronchus; II, main bronchi—(f/u.) A), and as these increase in size and give rise to additional outgrowths, the structure of the lobes rapidly becomes com- plicated (Fig. 196, B and C). The lower primary process on each side may be regarded as a prolongation of the bronchus, while the remaining process or processes represent lateral outgrowths from it. Considerable difference of opinion has existed as to the nature of the further branching of the bronchi, some authors regarding it as a succession of dichotomies, one branch of each of these placing itself so as to be in thelin^ of thp 31354 THE LUNGS. original jnain bronchus, while the other comes to resemble a lateral outgrowth, and other^observers have held that the main bronchus^ has an uninterrupted growth, all other branches being lateral outgrowthsjrqin it,' and the branch- ing therefore a mono]X)dial process. The recent thorough study by Flint of the development of the lung of the pig shows that, in that form at least, the branching is a mono- r j podial one, and that from the main bronchus as it elongates four sets of secondary outgrowths develop, namely, a strong lateral, a dorsal, a ventral, and a weak and variable medial set. There is a general tendency for the individual branches of the various sets to be arranged in regular succession and for their development to be symmetrical in the two lungs. But on account of the necessity under which the lungs are placed of adapting themselves to the neighboring structures and at the same time affording a respiratory surface as large as possible, an amount of asymmetry supervenes. Thus, it has already been noted that in the earliest branching a single lateral bronchus is formed in the left lung and two in the right. The uppermost of these latter, the first lateral bronchus, is unrepresented in the left lung, and is peculiar in that it lies behind the right pulmonar^^iartery (Fig. 196, C), or in the adult, after the recession-of'tHe heart, above it, whence it is termed the^^^grfmo/ bronchus. Its absence on the left side is p€rhaps_due_ to its suppression to permit the normal recession of the aoj:tic_arch_(Flint). So, too, the inclination of the heart causes a suppression of the second ventral bronchus in the left lung, but at the same time it affords opportunity for an excessive develop- ment of the corresponding bronchus of the right lung, which pushes its way between the heart and the diaphragm and is known as the infra-cardiac bronchus. As soon as the unpaired first lateral bronchus and the«.THE LUNGS. 355 paired second lateral bronchi are formed mesenchyme begins to collect around each of them and also around the main bronchi, the lobes of the adult lung, three in the right lung and two in the left, being thus outlined. A development of mesenchyme also takes place around the excessively devel- oped right second ventral bronchus, and sometimes produces a well-marked infra-cardiac lobe in the right lung. In later stages the various bronchi of each lobe give rise to additional branches and these again to others, and the mesen- chyme of each lobe grows in between the various branches. At first the amount of mesen- chyme separating the branches is comparatively great, but as the branches continue, the growth of the mesenchyme fails to keep pace with it, so that in later stages the terminal enlargements are separated" from one another by only very thin partitions of mes- enchyme, in which the pulmonary vessels form a dense network. The final branchings of each ulti- mate bronchus or bronchiole re- sults in the formation at its ex- tremity of from three to five enlargements, the atria (Fig, 197, A), from which arise a number of air-sacs (vS') whose walls are pouched out into slight diverticula, the air-cells or alveoli. Such a combination of atria, air-sacs, and air-cells consti- tutes a lobule, and each lung is composed of a large number of such units. The greater part of the original pulmonary groove be- FiG. 197.—Diagram of the Final Branches of the Mammalian Bronchi. A, Atrium; B, bronchus; S, air-sac.— (Miller.)356 THE LARYNX.* comes converted into the trachea, and in the mesenchyme surrounding it the incomplete cartilaginous rings develop at about the eighth or ninth week. The cells of the epithelial lining of the trachea and bronchi remain columnar or cubi- cal in form and become ciliated at about the fourthjrtonth, but those of the epithelium of the air-sacs become greatly flattened and constitute an exceedingly thin layer of pave- ment epithelium, The Development of the Larynx.—The opening of the upper end of the pulmonary groove into the pharynx is situated at first just behind the fourth branchial furrow and is surrounded anteriorly and laterally by the fl -shaped rates from the oesophagus, the opening of the trachea into the pharynx is somewhat slit-like and is bounded laterally by the aryepiglottic folds, whose margins present two ele- vations which may be termed the cornicular and cuneiform CO, Cornicular, and cu, cuneiform tubercle; Ep, epiglottis; T, unpaired portion of the tongue.—(Kallius.) Fig. 198.—Reconstruction of the Opening into the Larynx in an Embryo of Twenty-eight Days, Seen from Behind and Above, THE Dorsal Wall of the Pharynx being Cut Away. ridge already described (p. 312) as the furcula, this separating it from the posterior portion . of the tongue (Fig. 171). The anterior portion of this ridge, which is apparently derived from the ventral portions of the third bran- chial arch, gradually in- creases in height and forms the epiglottis, while the lateral portions, which pass posteriorly into the mar- gins of the pulmonary groove, form the aryepi- glottic folds. When the pulmonary groove sepa- "I357 THE LARYNX. tubercles (Fig, 198, co and cm^ and Fig. 168). The open- ing is, however, for a .time, almost-obHterated by a thick- ening of the epithelium covering the ridges, and it is not until the tenth or eleventh week of development that it is re-established. Later than this, at the middle of the fourth month, a linear depression makes its appearance on the mesial wall of each arytenoid ridge, forming the beginning of the ventricle, and although at first the depression lies horizontally its lateral edge later bends anteriorly, so that its surfaces look outwards and inwards. The lips which Fig. 199.—Reconstruction of the Mesenchyme Condensations which Represent the Hyoid and Thyreoid Cartilages in an Embryo of Forty Days. The darkly shaded areas represent centers of chondrification. c ma ^''/^ri^r,.^°'""" °^ hyoid; c.mi, lesser cornu; Th, thyreoid cartilage. — {Kallius.) bound the opening of the ventricle into the laryngeal cavity give rise to the ventricular and vocal folds. The cartilages of the larynx can be distinguished during the seventh week as condensations of mesenchyme which are but indistinctly separated from one another. The thy- reoid cartilage is represented at this stage by two lateral plates of mesenchyme, separated from one another both ventrally and dorsally, and each of these plates undergoes chondrification from two separate centers (Fig. 199). These, as they increase in size, unite together and send prolonga- tions ventrally which meet in the mid-ventral line with theTHE LARYNX/ corresponding prolongations of the plates of the opposite side, so as to enclose an area of mesenchyme into.which the chondrification only extends at a later period, and occasion- ally fails to so extend, producing what is termed a foramen thyreoideum. The mesenchymal condensations which represent the cri- coid and arytenoid cartilages are continuous, but each aryte- noid has a distinct center of chondrification, while the car- tilage of the cricoid appears as a single ring which is at first open dorsally and only later becomes complete. The epi- glottis cartilage resembles the thyreoid in being formed by the fusion of two originally distinct cartilages, from each of which a portion separates to form the cuneiform cartilages {cartilages of Wrisherg), while the corniculate cartilages {cartilages of Sautorini) are formed by the separation of a small portion of cartilage from each arytenoid. The formation of the thyreoid cartilage by the fusion of two pairs of lateral elements finds an explanation from the study of the comparative anatomy of the larynx. In the lowest group of the mammalia, the Monotremata, the four cartilages do not fuse together and are very evidently serially homologous with the cartilages which form the cornua of the hyoid. In other words, the thyreoid results from the fusion of the fourth and fifth branchial cartilages. The cricoid, in its development, presents such striking similari- ties to the cartilaginous rings of the trachea that it is prob- ably to be regarded as the uppermost cartilage of that series, but the epiglottis seems to be a secondary chondrification in the glosso-laryngeal fold (Schaffer). The arytenoids pos- sibly represent an additional pair of branchial cartilages, such as occur in the lower vertebrates (Gegenbaur). These last arches have undergone almost complete re- duction in the mammalia, the cartilages being their only representatives, but, in addition to the cartilages, the fourth359 LITERATURE. and fifth arches have also preserved a portion of their mus- culature, part of which becomes transformed into the mus- cles of the larynx. Since the nerve which corresponds to these arches is the vagus, the supply of the larynx is derived from that nerve, the superior laryngeal nerve probably cor- responding to the fourth arch, while the inferior (recurrent) answers to the fifth. The course nf the rernrrent nerve fiiids its explanatioii_in I the relation of the nerve to the fourth branchial artery." When \^ the heart occupies its primary position ventral to the floor of the pharynx, the inferior laryngeal nerve passes transversely inward to the larynx beneath the fourth branchial artery. As_ the heart recedes the nerve is caught by the vessel and is car- ried back with it,. tHe portion of the vagus between it and the superior laryngeal nerve elongating until the origins of the two laryngeal nerves are separated by the entire length of the neck. Hence it is that the right recurrent nerve bends upward behind the right subclavian artery, while the left curves beneath the arch of the aorta (see Fig. 143). LITERATURE. J. M. Flint : " The Development of the Lungs," Amcr. Journ. Anat., VI, 1906. E. Goppert: "Ueber die Herkunft der Wrisbergschen Knorpels," Morphol. Jahrbuch, xxi, 1894. W. His : " Zur Bildungsgeschichte der Lungen beim menschlichen Em- bryo," Archiv fur Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1887. E. Kallius: " Beitrilge zur Entwickelungsgeschichte des Kehlkopfes," Anat. Hefte, ix, 1897. E. Kallius: "Die Entwickelung des menschlichen Kehlkopfes," Ver- handl. der Anat. Gesellsch., xii, 1898. A. Narath : " Der Bronchialbaum der Saugethiere und des Menschen," Bibliotheca Medica, Abth. A, Heft 3, 1901. J. Schaffer: "Zur Histologic Histogenese und phylogenetischen Bc- deutung der Epiglottis," Anat. Hcfte, xxxiii, 1907.CHAPTER XIIL THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE URINOGENITAL SYSTEM. The excretory and reproductive systems of organs are so closely related in their development that they must be considered together. Tliey both owe their origin to the mesoderm which constitutes the intermediate cell-mass (p. 104), this, at an early period of development, becom- ing thickened so as to form a ridge projecting into the .'Ct Fig. 200.—Transverse Section through the Abdominal Region of A Rabbit Embryo of 12 mm. a, Aorta; gl., glomerulus; gr, genital ridge; m. mesentery; nc, noto- chord; t, tubule of mesonephros; zvd, Wolffian duct; zvr, Wolffian ridge.— {Mihalkovicz.) dorsal portion of the coelom and forming what is known as the Wolffian ridge (Fig. 200, zvr). The greater portion of the substance of this ridge is concerned in the develop- ment of the primary and secondary excretory organs, but on its mesial surface a second ridge appears which is des- tined to give rise to the ovary or testis, and hence is termed the genital ridge {gr). ^60361 THE PRONEPHROS. The development of the excretory organs is remarkable in that three sets of organs appear in succession. The first of these, the pronephros, exists in a very rudimentary condition in the human embryo, although its duct, the pronephric or WoMan duct, undergoes complete develop- ment and plays an important part in the development of the succeeding organs of excretion and also in that of the reproductive organs. The second set, the mesonephros or Wolffian body, reaches a considerable development during embryonic life, but later, on the development of the final set, the definite kidney or metanephros, undergoes degen- eration, portions only persisting as rudimentary structures associated for the most part w^ith the reproductive organs. The Development of the Pronephros and the Pro- nephric Duct.—The first portions of the excretory system to make their appearance are the pronephric or Wolffian ducts, and these develop as thickenings of the lateral parts of the intermediate cell-masses. At first the thickenings form solid cords of cells (Fig. 201, zvd), but later a lumen appears in the center of each cord, which thus becomes converted into a canal. In early stages the cords, toward their posterior ends, may undergo a secondary fusion with the immediately overlying ectoderm (Martin) and may thereby present the appearance of having arisen from that layer, but when fully developed the ducts lie in the sub- stance of the Wolffian ridges (Fig. 200, zc/c/), their anterior ends being situated well forward in the region occupied by the heart, whence they extend backward to open on the ventral part of the lateral walls of the cloaca (Fig. 163). The pronephros has been observed in embryos of about 3 mm. as two tubular invaginations of the coelomic epi- thelium into the substance of each Wolffian ridge, in the region in which the anterior end of the Wolffian duct is found (Janhosik). The tubules do not proceed to com- 32THE PRONEPHROS. 362 plete development, making no connection with the duct, and indeed the anterior one hardly deserves to be termed a tubule, since it is a solid cord of cells, continuous at one extremity with the coelomic epithelium. The posterior one is, however, a hollow tubule ending blindly at one extrem- ity, while at the other it communicates with the coelomic cavity, the opening being termed a nephrostome. Oppo- site these rudimentary tubules there arises from the root of the mesentery a process which projects freely into the coelom toward the nephrostomes. This probably represents Fig. 201.—Transverse Section through Chick Embryo of about Thirty-six Hours. en, Endoderm; im, intermediate cell mass; ms, mesodermic somite; nc, notochord; so, somatic, and sp, splanchnic mesoderm; wd, Wolffian duct.—(JValdeyer.) a rudimentary free glomerulus, into which branches from the aorta may project. Structures which are probably to be identified as pro- nephric tubules have been observed in older embryos up to 20 mm. (Tandler), situated at the sides of the aorta from about the seventh to the eleventh segments. They present, however, signs of degeneration, having, for instance, no connection with the coelomic epithelium in older embryos, and it seems probable that they later disappear completely. A similar but more perfectly developed pronephros has been described in other mammals, such as the rabbit and rat, and is of constant occurrence in all the lower vertebrates. In these the pronephric tubules, which may be six (in the lamprey) orTHE PRONEPHROS. there appear in embryos of between 3 and 4 mm. a num- more in number on each side, are primarily arranged segment- ally, and open by one extremity into the anterior portion of the Wolffian duct and by the other into the coelomic cavity, and, furthermore, each tubule has corresponding to it a glomerulus which lies freely in the coelomic cavity in the vicinity of the nephrostome. By these free glomeruli and by the possession of nephrostomes the tubules of the pronephros are distin- guished from those of the mesonephros in the higher verte- brates, and since both these peculiarities are represented in the two pairs of tubules described above as occurring in the 3 mm. human embryo, there seems to be little room for doubt but that they are representatives of a rudimentary pronephros. > It has been very generally supposed that the tubules of the mesonephros, which develop in the segments succeeding those which contain the pronephros, were serially homologous with the pronephric tubules. Doubts have recently been aroused against this theory (Riickert, Wheeler). Important structural differences exist in the two sets of tubules, and since even in the lowest vertebrates the pronephros seems to be a rudimen- tary structure, it has been held not improbable that in the ancestors of the vertebrates it was a much more perfectly developed organ extending back into the region occupied by the mesonephros in existing vertebrates. As the mesonephros developed the pronephros underwent degeneration, portions of its tubules persisting, however, and uniting to form a continu- ous canal, the pronephric duct, a structure for which, other- wise, it is difficult to find a satisfactory explanation. The fact that in lower forms the duct seems to develop as a number of separate parts which later become continuous stands in favor of this hypothesis, but in opposition to it is the observation that the lower portion of the duct in several species of mam- mals arises from the ectoderm (von Spee, Flemming). It seems, however, to be established that in the majority of the lower vertebrates it is of purely mesodermal origin, and its connection with the ectoderm in the mammalia is therefore very probably due to a secondary fusion (Martin). The Development of the Mesonephros.—The pro- nephric duct does not disappear with the degeneration of the pronephric tubules, but persists to serve as the duct for the mesonephros and to play an important part in the devel- opment of the metanephros also. In the Wolffian ridge3^4 THE MESONEPHROS. ber of coiled tubules, which arise by some of the cells of the ridge aggregating to form solid cords, at first entirely unconnected with either the coelomic epithelium or the Wolffian duct. Later the cords become connected with the coelomic epithelium and acquire a lumen, and near the coelomic end of the tubule a condensation of the mesen- chyme of the Wolffian ridge occurs to form a glomerulus into which a branch ex- tends from the neighbor- ing aorta. The tubules finally acquire connection with the Wolffian duct and at the same time lose their connections with the coelomic epithelium, their nephrostomes being ac- cordingly but transitory structures. The tubules rapidly increase in length and become coiled, and the glomeruli project into their cavities, pushing in front of them the wall of the tubule so that it has the appearance represented in Fig 202. It seems probable that primarily the mesonephric cords are arranged segmentally, a single pair occurring in each segment of the body behind the pronephros as far back, probably, as the pelvic region, and hence the intermediate cell-mass from which the Wolffian ridge is formed may properly be regarded as composed of nephrotomes, even though no surface indications of segmentation are to be seen in it. The correspondence of the tubules with the myotomes becomes, however, early disturbed, partly as the Fig. 202.—Transverse Section of THE Wolffian Ridge of a Chick Embryo of Three Days. ao, Aorta; gl, glomerulus; gr, genital ridge; mes, mesentery; mt, meso- nephric tubule; vc, cardinal vein; Wd, Wolffian duct.—(Mihalkovicz.)THE MESONEPHROS. result of differences in growth of the two structures, but especially because a number of secondary and tertiary tu- bules develop in connection with each of the primary ones. Exactly how these additional tubules arise is a little uncer- tain, some observers maintaining that they are formed from the substance of the Wolffian ridge in the same manner as the primary tubules with which they later become con- nected (Mihalkovicz), while others hold that they are Fig. 203.—Urinogenital Apparatus of a Male Pig Embryo of 6 cm. ao, Aorta; b, bladder; gh, giibernaculum testis; k. kidney; md, Miillerian duct; sr, suprarenal body; t, testis; zu, Wolffian body; wd. Wolffian duct {Mihalkovicz.) formed by the splitting of the primary tubules or as buds from these (Braun, Janhosik). By the formation of these additional tubules and the continued elongation of all, whereby they become thrown into numerous convolutions, the Wolffian ridge becomes a366 THE METANEriiROS. somewhat voluminous structure, projecting markedly into the coelomic cavity (Fig. 203). It is attached to the dorsal wall of the body by a distinct mesentery and has in its lateral portion, embedded in its substance, the Wolffian duct, while on its mesial surface anteriorly is the but slightly developed genital ridge (t). This condition is reached in the human embryo at about the sixth or seventh week of development, and after that period the mesonephros under- goes rapid degeneration, so that at about the sixteenth week nothing remains of it except the duct and a few small rudi- ments whose history will be given later. The Development of the Metanephros.—The first por- tion of the metanephros to appear is a tubular outgrowth from the dorsal surface of the Wolffian duct, shortly before its en- trance into the cloaca (Fig. 163). As this' outgrowth _ elongates__.it comes to lie dorsal to _ the mesonephros and its anterior extremity becomes enlarged jand lobed, and also becomes surrounded by a conden- sation of mesenchynie^ which has been termed the metanephric blastepia. _ThQ outgrowth makes its ap- pearance in embryos of about 5 mm., but its anterior ex- tremity does not reach its final position in the neighborhood of the suprarenal 1x)dy until the third month of development. The extremity of the outgrowth early begins to divide within the substance of the blastema and thus gives rise to a number of branches, each of which terminates in an Fig. 204.—Diagrams of Early Stages IN THE Development of the Meta- NEPHRic Tubules. t, Urinary tubule; Ur, ureter; v, renal ampulla.— (Haycraft.)THE METANEPHROS. ampullar enlargement, l^niigjn tlie_cqrtical portio^^ the blastema (Fig- 204), .which, by. is time has formed for itself a capsule. In the vicinity of each ampulla a number of condensations of the blastemic tissue occur (Fig. 205, A), forming renal vesicles which are at first solid'but later become hollow, and each" of these elongates to form an ^-shaped tubule, one end of which becomes continuous with the neighboring ampulla...(-Figs. 204, B, and 205, B)._In Fig. 205.—Four Stages in the Development of a Uriniferous Tubule of a Cat. A, arched collecting tubule, C, proximal convoluted tubule; C, distal convoluted tubule; H, loop of Henle; M, glomerulus; T, renal vesicle; V, ampulla (drawn from reconstructions prepared by G. C. Huber). pf the S a collQction of mesenchyme cells appears. and_intc this branches penetrate at an early stage from the renal artery to form a glomerulus, the iieighboring walls of the tubule becoming exceedingly thin and beingL_transformecC into_a capsule of Bowman. The upper loop of the S now368 THE METANEPHROS. beginsJo_dongate (Fig. 205, C), growing toward the hilus of the kidney, parallel to the branch of the outgrowth from the Wolffian duct to which it is attached and between this and the glomerulus, and forms a loop of Henle. From the portion of the horizontal limb of the S which lies between the glon^erulus and the descending limb of the loop of Henle" the proximal convoluted tubule ..(C) arises, while the distal_ convoluted and the arched collecting tubules (C and A) are formed from the uppermost portion of the upper loop (Fig. 205, D). The entire length of the urinary tubule from Bowman's capsule to the arched collecting tube inclusive is thus de- rived from a renal vesicle, while each renal ampulla becomes by its elongation a collecting tubule and the remaining por- tions of the outgrowth from the Wolffian duct become the pelvis of the kidney and the ureter. Up to the time when the urinary tubules begin to develop there is no pelvis to the kidney, the ureter extending well toward the center of the blastema before beginning to branch and the branches thence extending to the cortex (Fig. 204). As soon as the tubules appear, however, the formation of the pelvis begins by what has been described as an evagination of the primary branches of the ureter to form a common cavity, a process which is beginning to manifest itself in the stage shown in Fig. 204, B, and which is continued until the secondary branches are also taken up into the cavity, into which the various collecting tubules then open separately. At about the tenth week of development the surface of the human kidney becomes marked by shallow depressions into lobes, of which there are about eighteen, one corre- sponding to each of the groups of tubules which arise from the same renal vesicle. This lobatipn persists until after birth and then disappears completely, the surface of the kidney becoming smooth.THE MULLERIAN DUCT. The Development of the Mullerian Duct and of the Genital Ridge.—At the time when the Wolffian body has almost reached its greatest development a second longitu- dinal duct makes its appearance in close proximity to the Wolffian. This is known as the Miillerian duct (Fig. 206, Md). Its development is preceded by the appearance of a distinct ridge or fold upon the ventral surface of the Wolffian body, extending from the under surface of the diaphragm above to the urogenital sinus below and con- taining in the lower portion of its course the Wolffian duct (Fig. 203). Near the anterior end of the mesonephros there grows into this fold an evagination from the peri- toneum covering the Wolffian ridge and by the proliferation of the cells at its tip this evagination gradually extends downward in the substance of the ridge, and in embryos of 22 mm. has reached the urogenital sinus. As they ap- proach the sinus, the right and left evaginations or Miil- lerian ducts gradually approach one another and finally fuse together to form a single tube in the lower part of their course, but they remain distinct above, each tube retaining its original opening into the peritoneal cavity. The genital ridge makes its appearance as a band-like thickening of epithelium extending lengthwise upon the mesial surface of the Wolffian body. The cells composing the thickening are arranged in several layers and are of two kinds: (i) smaller, cubical or spherical epithelial cells, with a relatively small amount of cytoplasm, and (2) large spherical cells with more abundant and clear cytoplasm, known as sex-cells. Later the thickening separates into two distinct layers, a superficial one which remains epi- thelial in character and contains the sex-cells, and a deeper one, composed only of smaller cells and known as the stroma layer, since its cells later become the stroma cells. From the epithelial layer columns of cells containing sex-370 THE GENITAL KlDGE. Fig. 206.—Transverse Section through the Abdominal Region of AN Embryo of 25 mm. Ao, Aorta; B, bladder; /, intestine; L, liver; M, muscle; Md, Miillerian duct; A'', spinal cord; Ov, ovary; RA, rectus abdominis; Sg, spinal ganglion; UA, umbilical artery; Ur, ureter; V, vertebra; IV, Wolf- fian body; Wd, Wolffian duct—(Keibel.)THE GENITAL RIDGE. cells grow down into the subjacent tissue of the ridge, this process not taking place, however, to an equal extent in all portions of the ridge. Indeed, three regions may be recog- nized in the ridge; an anterior one, in which a relatively small number of cell-columns, extending deeply into the stroma, are formed; a middle one in which numerous col- umns are formed; and a posterior one in which practically none are formed. The first region has been termed the rete region and its cell-columns the rete-cords, the second region the sex-gland region and its columns the sex-cords, and the posterior region is the mesenteric region and plays no part in the actual formation of the ovary or testis. The histological differentiation of the genital ridge de- scribed above is common to both sexes and, in the human embryo, is completed at about the fourth or fifth week. After that period the development differs somewhat accord- ing as the sex-gland is to become a testis or an ovary, and consequently the further development of these two struc- tures may be described separately. Before doing so, how- ever, the development of certain accessory structures may be briefly described. At first the ridge is of insignificant dimensions compared with the more voluminous Wolffian body (Fig. 200), but as the degeneration of the latter proceeds the relative size of the two structures becomes reversed and the genital ridge forms a marked prominence attached to the surface of the Wolffian ridge by a fold of peritoneum which becomes the mesovarium in the female and the mesqrchium in the male. The fold which surrounds the Wolffian body becomes trans- formed on the degeneration of that structure into the broad ligament, the transverse position of which in the adult is due toTiieTfusion of the lower portions of the Miillerian ducts,, and since the genital ridges lie primarily to the median side of the ducts, they come to be attached by their mesentery372 THE TESTIS. to the dorsal surf ace of tlie broad ligament. The relations of the broad ligaments and mesorchia in the male become profoundly modified by the descent of the testes into the scrotum, a process to be described later (p. 388). From each genital ridge a prolongation, of mesenchyme extends ■ downward in the mesentery' of the ridge, nearly parallel with the Miillerian duct, with which it comes into contact at the point where the two ducts fuse and thence is con- tinued downward and for- ward between the folds of the broad ligament to be attached i to the ventral wall of the" abdomen in the inguinal region. The upper part of this pro-j longation of the genital ridge' represents the ligament of the'^ ovary and its lower part the! ligamentum teres of the female] (Fig. 207), while in the male the entire structure forms what is known as the giibernaculum-. testis. The Development of the Testis.—At about the fourth or fifth week there appears in the sex-gland region of the genital ridge a structure which serves to characterize the region as a testis. This is a layer of somewhat dense con- nective tissue which grows in between the epithelial and stroma layers of the sex-gland region and gradually ex- tends around the entire sex-gland to form the tunica alhu- ginea. By its development the sex-cords are separated from the epithelium, which later becomes much flattened and K4 Fig. 207.—Reproductive Or- gans OF A Female Embryo OF Six Months. Bj Bladder; F, Fallopian tube; I, intestine; 01, ovarian liga- ment; Ov, ovary; Rl, round ligament; UA, umbilical ar- tery; Ur, ureter; Ut, uterus; W, Wolffian body (epoopho- ron).— {Adapted from Mihal- kovicz.)373 THE TESTIS. eventually almost disappears. Shortly after the appearance of the albiiginea the sex-cords become broken up into more or less spherical masses and the rete-cords grow backwards into the axial substance of the testis (Fig. 208), develop a lumen and send off branches, one of which becomes con- nected'with each of the masses formed from the sex-cords. The rete-cords have also come into connection with the glomeruli of the anterior portion of the mesonephros and, like the sex-cords, have separated from the epithelium which Fig. 208.—Section through the Testis and the Broad Ligament of THE Testis of an Embryo of 5.5 mm. ep, Epithelium; md, Miillerian duct; mo, mesorchium; rc, rete-cords- sc, sex-cords; wd, Wolffian duct—(Mihalkovick) gave rise to them, so that they now extend between the sex-cord masses and the mesonephric glomeruli. The sex- cord masses eventually form the seminiferous tubules, while from the rete-cords are formed the tubuli recti and rete tes- tis, by which the spermatozoa are transmitted to the Wolf- fian duct (see p. 378). The development of the seminiferous tubules is not com- pleted, however, until puberty. The sex-cord masses elon-374 THE TESTIS. gate to form cylindrical cords, between which lie stroma cells and interstitial cells derived from the stroma; but until puberty these cords remain solid, a lumen developing only at that period. The cords contain the same forms of cells ep R A/n Fig. 209.—Longitudinal Section of the Ovary of an Embryo Cat OF 9.4 CM. cor, Cortical layer; r/>, epoophoron; Mc, medullary cords; Mn, meso- nephros; pf, peritoneal fold containing Fallopian tube; R, rete; /, Fallopian tube.— {Coert, from Buhler.) as were described as occurring in the epithelium of the germinal ridge, and while in the early stages transitional forms seem to occur, in later periods the two varieties of cells are quite distinct, the sex-cells becoming spermatogonia375 THE OVARY. (see p. 13) and being the mother cells of the spermatozoa, while the remaining epithelial cells perhaps become trans- formed into Sertoli cells (Benda). The Development of the Ovary.—In the case of the ovary, after the formation of the sex-cords, connective tissue grows in between these and the epithelium, forming a layer equiva- lent to the tunica albugiriea of the testis. It is, however, a much looser tissue than its homologue in the male, and, indeed, does not completely isolate the sex-cords from the epithelium, although the majority of the cords are separated and sink into the deeper portions of the ovary where they form what have been termed the mediillary cords. In the meantime the germinal epithelium has continued to bud of? cords which unite to form a cortical layer of cells lying below the epithelium and separated from the medullary cords by the tunica albuginea (Fig. 209). Later the cortical layer becomes broken up by the in- growth of stroma tissue into spherical or cord-like masses, consisting of sex-cells and epithelial cells (Fig. 210). The invasion of the stroma continuing, these spheres or cords (Pfliiger's cords) become divided into smaller masses, the primary ovarian follicles, each of which consists as a rule of a single sex-cell surrounded by a number of epithelial cells, the whole being enclosed by a zone of condensed stroma tissue, which eventually becomes richly vascularized and forms a theca folliculi (Fig. 9). The epithelial cells in each follicle are at first comparatively few in number and closely surround the sex-cell (Fig. 210, /), which is destined to become an ovum, but in certain of the follicles they un- dergo an increase by mitosis, becoming extremely numerous, and later secrete a fluid, the liquor folliculi, which collects at one side of the follicle and eventually forms a consider- able portion of its contents. The follicular cells are differ- entiated by its appearance into the stratum ^ranulosum,_3/6 THE OVARY. which surrounds the wall of the follicle, and the discus pro- ligerusj, in which the ovum is embedded (Fig. 9, dp), 2ind the cells which immediately surround the ovum, becoming cylindrical in shape, give rise to the cjrgna radiata (Fig. 10, cr). A somewhat similar fate is shared by the medullary cords, these also breaking up into a number of follicles, but sooner or later these follicles undergo degeneration so that shortly after birth practically no traces of the cords remain. It must be noted that degeneration of the follicles formed from the cortical layer also takes place even during fetal life and continues to occur throughout the entire periods of growth and functional activity, nu- merous atretic follicles Fig. 210.—Section of the Ovary of a New-born Child. a, Ovarial epithelium; b, proximal part of a Pfluger's cord; c, sex-cell in being found m the ovary epithelium; d and e, spherical masses; f, primary follicle; g, blood-vessel.— (From Gegenhaiir, after Waldeyer.) at all times. Indeed it would seem that degen- eration is the fate of the great majority of the follicles and sex-cells of the ovary, but few ova coming to maturity during the life-time of any individual. Rete-cords developed from the rete portion of the germ- inal ridge occur in connection with the ovary as well as with the testis and form a rete ovarii. They do not, however, extend so deeply into the ovary, remaining in the neighbor- hood of the mesovarium, and they do not become tubular,377 THE GENITAL DUCTS. but resemble closely the medullary cords with which they are serially homologous. They separate from the epithe- lium and make connections with the glomeruli of the ante- rior portion of the mesonephros, on the one hand, and on the other with the medullary cords, and in later stages show a tendency to break up into primary follicles, which early degenerate and disappear like those of the medullary cords. The Transformation of the Mesonephros and the Ducts.—At one period of development there are present, as representatives of the urinogenital apparatus, the Wolffian body (mesonephros) and its duct, the Miillerian duct, and the developing ovary or testis. Such a condition forms an indifferent stage from which the development proceeds in one of two directions according as the genital ridge be- comes a testis or an ovary, the Wolffian body in part under- going degeneration and in part persisting to form organs which for the most part are rudimentary, while in the female the Wolffian duct also degenerates except for certain rudiments and in the male the Miillerian duct behaves similarly. In the Male.—It has been seen that the upper portion of the Wolffian body, through the rete cords, enters into very intimate relations with the testis, and may be regarded as divided into two portions, an upper genital and a lower excretory. In the male the genital portion persists in its entirety, serving as the efferent ducts of the testis, which, beginning in the spaces of the rete testis, already shown to be connected with the capsules of Bowman, open into the upper part of the Wolffian duct and form the globus major of the epididymis. The excretory portion undergoes ex- tensive degeneration, a portion of it persisting as a mass of coiled tubules ending blindly at both ends, situated near the head of the epididymis and known as the pjwadidymis. or organ oi^raidewhile a single elongated tubule, aris- 33THE GENITAL DUCTS. 378 ing from the portion of the Wolffian ckict which forms the globus minor of the epididymis, represents another portion of it and is known as the vas aherrans. The Wolffian duct is retained complete, the portion of it nearest the testis becoming greatly elongated and thrown into numerous coils, forming the body and globus minor of the epididymis, while the remainder of it is converted into the vas deferens and the ductus ejaculatorius. A lat- eral outpouching of the wall of the duct to form a longi- tudinal fold appears at about the third month and gives rise to the vesicida seminalis, the lateral position of the out- growth explaining the adult position of the vesiculse lateral to the vasa deferentia. With the Miillerian duct the case is very different, since it disappears completely throughout the greater part of its course, only its upper and lower ends persisting, the former giving rise to a small sac-like body, the sessile hydatid of Morgagni, attached to the upper end of the testis near the epididymis, while the latter is represented by a depression in the floor of the urethra known as the sinus pocularis, which is usually prolonged upward into a short cylindrical pouch known as the uterus masculinus, although it corre- sponds to the vagina rather than to the uterus of the female. In the Female.—In the female the genital portion of the mesonephros, though never functional as ducts, persists as a group of ten to fifteen tubules, situated between the two layers of the broad ligament and in close proximity to the ovary; these constitute what is known as the epodphoron {parovarium or organ of Rosenmiiller). The tubules ter- minate blindly at the ends'nearest the ovary, but at the other extremity, where they are somewhat coiled, they open into a collecting duct which represents the upper end of the Wolffian duct. Near this rudimentary body is another, also composed of tubules, representing the remains of the379 THE GENITAL DUCTS. excretory portion of the mesonephros and termed the paro- ophoron. So far as the mesonephros is concerned, there- fore, the persisting rudiments in the female are comparable to those occurring in the male. As regards the ducts, however, the case is different, for in the female it is the Miillerian ducts which persist, while the Wolffians undergo degeneration, a small portion of their vn UM FEMALE INDIFFERENT MALE Fig. 211.—Diagrams Illustrating the Transformation of the mullerian and wolffian ducts. B, Bladder; C, clitoris; CG, canal of Gaertner; CI, cloaca- Eo eoo ophoron; £/> epididymis; F, Fallopian tube; G, genital gland; HE hydatid Of epididymis; HM, hydatid of Morgagni; K, kidney; Mullerian duct; 0, ovary; P, penis; Po, paroophron; Pr, prostate gand; R, rectum; T, testis; V, urethra; UM, uterus mas^ulinus; Ur, urtter; US, urogenital sinus; Ut, uterus; V, vagina; VA vas aberrans; ra vas deferens; VS, vesicula seminalis; IVB, Wo ffian body; WD, Wolffian duct.~(Modified from Huxley)THE GENITAL DUCTS. 38o upper ends persisting in connection with the epoophora, while their lower ends persist as straight tubules lying at the sides of the vagina and forming what are known as the canqhof Gartner. The Miillerian ducts, on the other hand, become converted into the Fallopian tubes {tuhce uterince), and in their lower portions into the uterus and vagina. From the margins of the openings by which the Miillerian ducts communicate with the coelom projections develop at an early period and give rise to the fimhricE, with the excep- tion of the one connected with the ovary, the fimbria ovarica,\ which is the upper persisting portion of the original genital ridge, it_s_lower portion, below the ovary, bejng represented by^Jhe ovarian and inguinal ligament already described. It has been seen that the lower portions of the Miillerian ducts fuse together to form a single canal, and it is from this that the uterus and vagina are differentiated, the histological distinction of the two portions commencing to manifest itself at about the third month. During the fourth month the vaginal portion of the duct becomes flattened and the epithelium lining its lumen fuses so as to completely occlude it and, a little later, there appears near its lower opening a distinct semicircular fold attached to its dorsal margin. This is the hymen, a structure which seems to be repre- sented in the male by the veru montanum. The oblitera- tion of the lumen of the vagina persists until about the sixth month, when the cavity is re-established by the break- ing down of the central epithelial cells. The diagram. Fig. 211, illustrates the transformation from the indifferent condition which occurs in the two sexes, and that the homologies of the various parts may be clearly understood they may also be stated in tabular form as on the next page. In addition to the sessile hydatid, a stalked hydatid also occurs in connection with the testis, and a similar structure isTHE BLADDER. 381 IndiSerent Stage. Male. P'emale. Testis. Gubernaculum. Fimbria ovarica. 0 vnt*v Ovarian ligament. Round ligament. WolfHan body ■ • tilobus major of epididymis, r a rfl fl i ri vm i s Vasa aberrantia. Epoophoron. r firnrifilinrnn Wolffian ducts - • Body and globus minor of epididymis. Vasa deferentia. Ejaculatory ducts. Collecting tubules of epo- ophoron. Canals of Gartner. f Miillerian ducts | Sessile hydatid. Uterus masculinus. Fallopian tubes. Uterus. Vagina. attached to the fimbriated opening of each Fallopian tube. The significance of these structures is uncertain, though it has been suggested that they are persisting rudiments of the prone- phros. A failure of the development of the various parts just de- scribed to be completed in the normal manner leads to various abnormalities in connection with the reproductive organs. Thus there may occur a failure in the fusion of the lower por- tions of the Miillerian ducts, a bihorned or bipartite uterus resulting, or the two ducts may come into contact and their adjacent walls fail to disappear, the result being a median par- tition separating the vagina or both the vagina and uterus into two compartments. The excessive development of the fold which gives rise to the hymen may lead to a complete closure of the lower opening of the vagina, while, on the other hand, a failure of the Miillerian ducts to fuse may produce a biper- forate hymen. The Development of the Urinary Bladder and the Urogenital Sinus.—So far the relations of the lower ends of the urinogenital ducts have not been considered in detail, although it has been seen that in the early stages of develop- ment the Wolffian and Miillerian ducts open into the sides of the ventral portion of the cloaca; that the ureters com- municate withjhe lower portions of the Wolffi^^TductT; that from the ventral anterior poi^ion of the" cloaca~the*THE BLADDER. 382 alUmtoic duct extends_outward into the belly-stalk; and, finally (p. 297), that the cloaca becomes divided into a dorsal portion, which forms theJower^part of the rectum, and a ventral portion, which is continuous with the allan- tois and receives the urinogenital ducts (Fig. 212). It is the history of this ventral portion of the cloaca which is now to be considered. It may be regarded as consisting of t\vo_portions. an Fig. 212.—Reconstruction of the Cloacal Region of an Embryo OF 14 MM. al Allantois; b, bladder; gt, genital tubercle; i, intestine; n, spinal ' cord; nc, notochord; r, rectum; sg, urogenital sinus; ur, ureter; w, Wolffian duct—(Keibel.) interior and a posterior, the|ine_qf insertion of the urino- genital ducts marking the junction of the two. The_antej:, lipZor upper portion is destined to give rise to the urinary- bladder (Fig. 212, b), while the lower one forms what is known for a time as the urogenital sinus (sg). Thejila(^_ der, when first differentiated, is aJubukr^tructur_eo whose hImSi is continuous with that of the allantois, but after theTHE BLADDER. second month it enlarges to become more sac-like, while the intra^embryonic portion of the allantois degenerates to_ a_solid cord extending from the apex of the bladder to the umbiiiciis and is known as the urachus. During the en- largement of the bladder the terminal portions of the urino- genital ducts are taken up into its walls, a process which continues until finally tjie, ureters andJWol^^ ducts open Fig. 213.—Reconstruction of the Cloacal Structures of an Em- bryo OF 25 MM. hi, Bladder; m, Miillerian duct; r, rectum; sg, urogenital sinus; sy, symphysis pubis; u, ureter; ur, urethra; zv, Wolffian duct.— {Adapted from Keibel.) intoJt_separately, the ui^eters^ojpen^^ to the sides of and a little anterior to the ducts*. This condition is reached in embryos of about 14 mm. (Fig. 212), and in later stages^, the interval between the two pairs of ducts Js increased (Fig. 213), resulting in the formation of a short canal cormecting the lower end of the bladder which receives the." ureters with the upper end of the urogenital sinus, intoTHE UROGENITAL SINUS. 384 jjvhich the Wolffian_and Miillerian ducts open. This con- necting canal represents the urethra (Fig-.~2i3. ur), or rather the entire urethra of the female^ and the proximal part of that of the male, since a considerable portion of the latter canal is still undeveloped (see p. 386). From this urethra there is developed, at about the third month. a series of solid longitudinal folds which project upon the outer surface and separate from the urethra from above downward. These represent the tubules of the prostate gland and are developed J n bpth sexes, a 1 though they re- main in a somewhat rudimentary condition in the female. The muscular tissue, so characteristic of the gland in the adult male, is developed from the surrounding mesenchyme at a later stage. The urogenital sinus is in the early stages also tubular in its upper part, though it expands considerably below, where it is closed by the cloacal membrane. This, by the separation of the cloaca into rectum and sinus, has become divided into two portion^ the more ventral of which closes the sinus and the dorsaL_t]i£-.rectum, the interval between them having become considerably thickened to form the perineal body^ In embryos of about 17 mm. the urogenital portion of the membrane has broken through, and in later stages the tubular portion of the sinus is^radually taken up into the more expanded lower portion, until finally the entire sinus forms a shallow depression, termed the vesti- bule, into the upper part of which the urethra opens, while below,are the openings of the . Wolffian (ejaculatory) ducts in the male or the orifice__of the vagina in the female. From the sides of the lower part of the sinus a pair of evaginations arise toward the end of the fourth month and give rise to the bulbo-vestibular glands^ (Bartholin's) of the female or the corresponding bulbo-uretltral glands (Cozuper's) in the male.THE EXTERNAL GENITALIA. The Development of the External Genitalia.—At about the^^fth_week. before the urogenital sinus has opened to the exterior^.the mesenchyme on its ventral wall begins to thicken, j)roducing a slight projection to the exterior. This eminence, whiciris known as the o^enital tubercle (Fig. 212, gt), rapidlyincreases in size, its extremity becomes some- what bulbonsly eiilarged~7Fig.'214, gl) and a ^-roove. exr— tending to the base of the terminal enlargement, appears upon its vestibular surface, the lips of the groove forming Fig. 214.—The External Genitalia of an Embryo of 25 mm. a, Anus; gf, genital fold; gl, glans; gs, genital swelling; p, perineal body.— ( Keihel.) two well-marked genital folds (Fig. 214, ^/). At about the tenth week there aj)pears on either side of the tubercle an enlargement termed the genital swelling (Fig. 214, gs), which is due to a thickening of the mesenchyme of the lower part of the ventral abdominal wall in_the_j-eg-ion where the inguinal ligament is attached, and with the ap- pearance of these structures the indifferent stage of the external genitals is completed. In the female the growth of the genital tubercle proceeds rather slowly and it becomes transformed into the clitoris, the genital folds becoming prolonged to form tlie labia minora. The genital swellings increase in sizeT'their mes- 34 'THE EXTERNAL GENITALIA. 386 enchyme becomes transformed into a mass of adipose and ^brous tissue and they become converted into the labia majora, the interval between them con'stiUitln^the w</z;a. In the_male the early stages of development are closely similar to those of the female; indeed, it has been well said that the external genitals of the adult female resemble those of the fetal male. In early stages the genital tubercle elon- g;ates to form the penis and the in|egiiment which covers the proximal part of it grows forward as a fokl which encloses the bulbous enlargement or glans and forms the prepuce, whose epithelium fuses with that covering the glans and only separates from it later by a cornification of the cells along the plane of fusion. The genital folds meet together and fusCj converting the vestibule and the groove upon the vestibular surface of the penis into the terminal portion of the male urethra and bringing it about that the^vasa defer- entia and the uterus masculinus open upon the floor of that passage. The two genital swellings are at the same time brought closer together, so as to lie between the base of the penis and the perineal body and, eventually, they_^form the scrotum. The mesenchyme of which they were pri- marily composed differentiates into the same layers as aa'e found in the wall of the abdomen and a peritoneal pouch is prolonged into them from the abdomen, so that they form sacs into which the testes descend toward the close of fetal Hfe (p. 388). The homologies of the portions of the reproductive appa- ratus derived from the cloaca and of the external genitalia in the two sexes may be perceived from the following table. Numerous anomalies, depending upon an inhibition or ex- cess of the development of the parts, may occur in connection with the external genitalia. Should, for instance, the lips of the groove on the vestibular surface of the penis fail to fuse, the penial portion of the urethra remains incomplete, consti- tuting a condition known as hypospadias, a condition whichTHE DESCENT OF THE OVARIES. Male. Female. Urogenital sinus Genital tubercle Genital folds Urinary bladder. Proximal portion of urethra. Bulbo-urelhral glands. The rest of the urethra. Penis. Prepuce and integument of penis. Scrotum. Urinary bladder. Urethra. Bulbo-vestihular glands. Vestibule. Clitoris. Labia minora. Genital swellings Labia majora. It is stated above that the layers which compose the walls of the scrotum are identical with those of the abdominal wall. This may be seen in detail from the following scheme: offers a serious bar to the fulfilment of the sexual act. If the hypospadias is complete and there be at the same time an imperfect development of the penis, as frequently occurs in such cases, the male genitalia closely resemble those of the female and a condition is produced which is usually known as hermaphroditism'. It is noteworthy that in such cases there is frequently a somewhat excessive development of the uterus masculinus, and a similar condition may be produced in the female by an excessive development of the clitoris. Such cases, however, which concern only the accessory organs of reproduction, are instances of what is more properly termed spurious hermaphroditism, true hermaphroditism being a term which should be reserved for possible cases in which the geni- tal ridges give rise in the same individual to both ova and spermatozoa. Such cases are of exceeding rarity in the human species, although occasionally observed in the lower vertebrates, and the great majority of the examples of hermaphroditism hitherto observed are cases of the spurious variety. The Descent of the Ovaries and Testes.—The posi- tions finally occupied by the ovaries and testes are very dif- ferent from those which they possess in the earlier stages of development, and this is especially true in the case of the Abdominal Walls. Scrotum. Integument. Superficial fascia. External oblique muscle. Internal oblique muscle. Transverse muscle. Peritoneum. Integument. Dartos. Intercolumnar fascia. Cremasteric fascia. Infundibuliform fascia. Tunica vaginalis.THE DESCENT OF THE TESTES. 388 testes. The change of position is partly due to the rate of growth of the inguinal ligaments being less than that of the abdominal walls, the reproductive organs being thereby drawn downward toward the inguinal regions where the ligaments are attached. The attachment is to the bottom of a slight pouch of peritoneum which projects a short dis- tance into the substance of the genital swellings and is known as the canal of Nuck in the female, and in the male as the vaginal process. In the female a second factor combines with that just mentioned. The relative shortening of the inguinal liga- ments acting alone would draw the ovaries toward the inguinal regions, but since the inguinal ligaments are united toJ.he Mii^lleriayii di^^^^ (see p. 372), and since the ovaries are continuous with the posterior layer of the peritoneal folds which contain these ducts, the fusion of the lower ends of the ducts produces a traction toward the median line, so that the ovaries come to lie finally in the true pelvis. With the testes the case is more complicated, since in addi- tion to the relative shortening of the inguinal ligaments there is an elongation of the vaginal processes into the sub- stance of the genital swellings, and it must be remembered that the testes, like the ovaries, are primarily connected with the peritoneum. Three stages may be recognized in the descent of the testes. The first of these depends on the slow rate of elongation of the inguinal ligaments or guber- naculum. It lasts until about the fifth month of develop- ment, when the testes lie in the inguinal region of the abdomen, but during this month the elongation of the guber- naculum becomes more rapid and brings about the second stage, during which there is a slight ascent of the testes, so thaFthey come to lie a little higher in the abdomen. This stage is, however, of short duration, and is succeeded by the stage of the final descent, which is characterized by th^THE DESCENT OF THE TESTES. elongation of the vaginal processes of the peritoneum into die' substance of Ihe] icToTum" (FigTiTsT" A)'. Since the p-ubernaculum is attached to the bottom of the process, and since its gi'owth has again diminished, the testes gradually assume again their inguinal position, and are finally drawn down into the scrotum with the vaginal processes. The condition which is thus acquired persists for some time after birth, the testicles being readily pushed upward into the abdominal cavity along the cavity by which they Fig. 215.—^DiAGRAMS Illustrating the Descent of the Testis. il, Inguinal ligament; m, muscular layer; s, skin and dartos of the scro- tum; t, testis; tv, tunica vaginalis; vd, vas deferens; vp, vaginal process of peritoneum.—(After Hertzvig.) descended. Later, however, the size of the openings of the vaginal processes into the general peritoneal cavity becomes greatly reduced, so that each process becomes converted into an upper narrow neck and a lower sac-like cavity (Fig. 215, B), and, still later, the walls of the neck portion fuse and become converted into a solid cord, while the lower portion, wrapping itself around the testis, becomes the tunica vaginalis (tv). By these changes the testes become per- manently located in the scrotum. During the descent of the testes the remains of each Wolffian body, the epididymis,390 THE DESCENT OF THE TESTES. and tlie upper part of each vas deferens, together with the spermatic vessels and nerves, are drawn down into the scrotum, and the mesenterial fold jn which they were origi- nally contained and whichjs comparable to the broad liga- ment of the female, also practically disappears, becoming converted into, a sheath of connective tissue which encloTes the vas_ deferens and the vessels and nerves, binding them together into what is termed the spermatic cord. The mes- orchium^ which united the testis to the peritoneum enclos- ing the Wolffian body, does not share in the degeneration of the latter, but p_ei-sisjs as a fold extending between the epididymis and the testis and forrning the sinus epididymis. In the text-books of anatomy the spermatic cord is usually described as lying in an inguinal canal which traverses the abdominal walls obliquely immediately above Poupart's liga- ment. So long as the lumen of the neck portion of the vaginal process of peritoneum remains patent there is such a canal, placing the cavity of the tunica vaginalis in communication with the general peritoneal cavity, but the cord does not trav- erse this canal, but lies outside it in the retroperitoneal con- nective tissue. When, however, the neck of the vaginal proc- ess disappears, a canal no longer exists, although the connective tissue which surrounds the spermatic cord and unites it with the tissues of the abdominal walls is less dense than the neigh- boring tissues, so that the cord may readily be separated from these and thus appear to lie in a canal. LITERATURE. B. M. Allen : " The Embryonic Development of the Ovary and Testes in Mammals," Amcr. Jouni. of Anat., in, 1904. W. Felix : " Entwickelungsgeschichte des Exkretions-systems," Ergebn. dcr Anat. und Entzvicklungsgcsch., xiii, 1903. A. Fleischmann: " Morphologische Studien iiber Kloake und Phallus der Amnioten," Morphol. Jahrhuch, xxx, xxxii und xxxvi, 1902- 1904, 1907. . O. Frankl : " Beitrage zur Lehre vom Descensus testiculorum," Sitz- iingsbcr. dcr kais. Akad. Wisscnsch. Wicn, Math.-Naturzviss. Classe, cix, 1900. S. P. Gage : " A Three Weeks Human Embryo, with especial reference to the Brain and the Nephric System," Amer. Journ. of, Anat., IV, 1905.LITERATURE. G. C. Huber: "On the Development and Shape of the Uriniferous Tubules of Certain of the Higher Mammals," Amer. Journ. of Anat., IV, Suppl. 1905. J. Janosik: " Histologisch-embryologische Untersuchungen iiber das Urogenitalsystem," Sitsungsber. der kais. Akad. Wissensch. Wien, Math.-Naturzviss. Classe, xci, 1887. F. Keibel : " Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte dcs menschlichen Urogenital- apparatus," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Ahth., 1896. J. B. Macallum : " Notes on the Wolffian Body of Higher Mammals," Amer. Journ. of Anat., 1, 1902. E. Martin : " Ueber die Anlage der Urniere beim Kaninchen," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Ahth., 1888. H. Meyer : " Die Entwickelung der Urnieren beim Menschen," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xxxvi, 1890. G. VON MiHALKOVicz: "Untersuchungen uber die Entwickelung des Harn- urfd Geschlechtsapparates der Amnioten," Internat. Monats- schrift fiir Anat. und Physiol., u, 1885. W. Nagel : " Ueber die Entwickelung des Urogenitalsystems des Men- schen," Archiv fiir mikros. Anat., xxxiv, 1889. W. Nagel : " Ueber die Entwickelung des Uterus und der Vagina beim Menschen," Archiv fiir mikrosk. Anat., xxxvii, 1891. W. Nagel: " Ueber die Entwickelung der innere und aussere Geni- talien beim menschlichen Weibes," Archiv fiir Gyndkol., XLV, 1894. G. Pallin : " Beitrage zur Anatomic der Prostata und der Samen- blasen," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Ahth., 1901. A. Soulie: " Sur la migration des Testicules," Comptes Rendus de la Soc. de Biol. Paris, Ser. lome, 11, 1895. A. SouLiE: " Sur le mecanisme de la migration des testicules," Comp- tes Rendus de la Soc. de Biol Paris, Ser. lome, 11, 1895. J. Tandler : " Ueber Vornieren-Rudimente beim menschliche Embryo," Anat. Hefte, xxviii, 1905. F. TouRNEUx: " Sur le developpement et revolution du tubercule genital chez le fcetus humain dans les deux sexes," Journ. de I'Anat. et de la Physiol, xxv, 1889. S. Weber : " Zur Entwickelungsgeschichte des uropoetischen Apparates bei Saugern, mit besonderer Beriicksiclitigung der Urniere zur Zeit des Auftretens der bleibenden Niere," Morphol. Arheiten, vii, 1897.392 " CHAPTER XIV. THE SUPRARENAL SYSTEM OF ORGANS. To the suprarenal system a number of bodies of peculiar structure, probably concerned with internal secretion, may be assigned. In the fishes they fall into two distinct groups, the one containing organs derived from the coelomic e2ithdium__and known as interrenal organs, and the other consisting of organs derived from the sympathetic nervous s^^tem and which, on account of the characteristic affinity they possess for chromium salts, have been termed the chromaffine organs. But in the amphibia and amniote vertebrates, while both the groups are represented by inde- pendent organs, yet they also become intimately associated to form the suprarenal glands, so that, notwithstanding their distinctly different origins, it is convenient to consider them together. The Development of the Suprarenal Bodies.—The suprarenal bodies make their appearance at an,early stage, while the Wolffian bodies are still in a well-developed con;: dition, and they are situated at first to the medial side of the upper ends of these structures (Fig. 203, sr). Their final relation to the metanephros is a secondary event, and is merely a topographic relation, there being no develop- mental relation between the two structures. In the human embryo they make their appearance at about the beginning of the fourth week of development as a number of proliferations of the coelomic epithelium, which ]3roiect into the subjacent mesenchyme, and are situ- ated on eithei^^^de ^Jhe median line between the root ofDEVELOPMENT OF THE SUPRARENAL BODIES. 393 the mesentery and the tipper portion of the Wolffian bodv^ The various prohferations soon separate from the epithe^, liiim and unite to form two m.asses situated in the mesen- chyme one ondther side of the upper portion of the abdom- irraT"aorta. In certain forms, such as the rabbit, the pri- niary prohferations arise from the bottom of depressions of the coelomic epithehum (Fig. 216), but in the human embryo these depressions do not form. Up to this stage the structure is a pure interrenal organ, but during^ the fifth week of development Qiasses of cells, derived from the abdominal_gortion of the sympathetic^ s 0 »o ,>Sr»i- »'f\'\ Si Fig. 216.—Section through a Portion of the Wolffian Ridge of A Rabbit Embryo of 6.5 mm. Ao, Aorta; ns, nephrostome; Sr, suprarenal body; vc, cardinal vein; %vc, tubule of Wolffian body; wd, Wolffian duct.—{Aichel.) nervous system, begin to penetrate into each of the inter- renal masses (Fig. 217), and form strands traversing them. At about the ninth or tenth week fatty granules begin to appear in the interrenal cells and somewhat later, about the fourth month, the sympathetic constituents begin to show their c.hromaffine characteristics. The two tissues, how- ever, remain intermingled for a considerable time, and it is not until a much later period that they become definitely separated, the svmpathetic elements gradually concentrat- ing in_the centre of the compound organ to become its medullary substance, while the interrenal tissue forms the cortical substance. Indeed, it is not until after birth that394 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SUPRARENAL BODIES. the separation of the two tissues and their liistological dif- ferentiation is complete, occasional masses of interrenal tis- sue remaining- imbedded in the medullary substance and an immigration, of sympathetic cells continuing until at least t_he tenth year (WieselV ~ ' A great deal of difference of opinion has existed in the past concernmg the origin of the suprarenal glands. By several authors they have been regarded as derivatives in whole or in part of the excretory apparatus, some tracing their origin to the mesonephros and others even to the pronephros. The fact Fig. 217.—Section through the Suprarenal Body of an Embryo OF 17 MM. A, Aorta; R. interrenal portion; S, sympathetic nervous system; SB, sympathetic cells penetrating the interrenal portion.— (Wiescl.) that in some mammals the cortical (interrenal) cells are formed from the bottom of depressions of the ccelomic epi- thelium seemed to lend support to this view, but it is now pretty firmly established that the appearances thus presented do not warrant the interpretation placed upon them and that the interrenal tissue is derived from the coeloinic epithelium quite independently of the nephric tubules. That the chromaf- fine tissue is a derivative of the sympathetic nervous system has long been recognized. During the development of the suprarenal glands por-DEVELOPMENT OF THE SUPRARENAL BODIES. 395 tions of their tissue may be separated as the result of un- equal growth and form what are commonly spoken of as accessory suprarenal glands, although, since they are usu- alh^ composed solelv"or"cortical substance, the term acces- sory interrenal bodies would be more appropriate. They may be formed at different periods of development and occur in various situations, as for instance, in the vicinity of the kidneys or even actually imbedded in their substance, on the walls of neighboring blood-vessels, in the retroperi- toneal tissue below the level of the kidneys, and in connec- tion with the organs of_reproduction, in tl2e_sperniatic cord, epididymis or rete testis of the male and jn the broad liga- ment of the female. It seems probable that the bodies associated with the reproductive apparatus are separated from the main mass of interrenal tissue before the immigration of the sympa- thetic tissue and before the descent of the ovaries or testes, while those which occur at higher levels are of later origin, and in some cases may contain some medullary substance, being then true accessory suprarenals. Such bodies are, however, comparatively rare, the great majority of the accessory bodies being composed of interrenal tissue alone. Independent chromaffine organs also occur, among them the intercaroticl_g;anglia and the organs of Zuckerkandl being especially deserving of note. It may also be pointed out, however, that the chromaffine cells have the same origin as the cells of the sympathetic ganglia and may sometimes fail to separate from the latter, so that the sympathetic ganglia and plexuses frequently contain chromaffine cells. The Intercarotid Ganglia.—These structures, which are frequently though incorrectly termed carotid glands, are small bodies about 5 mm. in length, which lie usually to the mesial side of the upper ends of the common carotid arteries. They possess a very rich arterial supply and396 THE INTERCAROTID GANGLIA. stand ill intimate relation with the branches of an inter- carotid sympathetic plexus, and, furthermore, they are characterized by possessing as their specific constituents markedly chromaffine cells, among which are scattered stellate cells resembling the cells of the sympathetic ganglia. They have been found to arise in pig embryos of 44 mm. by the separation of cells from the ganglionic masses scat- tered throughout the carotid sympathetic plexuses. These Fig. 218.—Section of a Cell Ball from the Intercarotid Ganglion OF Man. be Blood capillaries; ev, efferent vein; S, connective-tissue septum; I, trabecule.—(From Bohm and Davidoft, after bchaper.) cells, which become the chromaffine cells, arrange them- selves in round masses termed cell balls, many of which unite to form each ganglion, and in man each cell ball becomes broken up into trabeculse by the blood-vessels (Fig. 218) which penetrate its substance, and the individual balls are separated from one another by considerable quantities of connective tissue.THE INTERCAROTID GANGLIA. 397 Some confusion has existed in the past as to the origin of this structure. The mesial wall of the proximal part of the internal carotid artery becomes considerably thickened during the early stages of development and the thickening is traversed by numerous blood lacunae v^hich communicate with the lumen of the vessel. This condition is perhaps a relic of the branchial capillaries which in the lower gill-breathing vertebrates repre- sent the proximal portion of the internal carotid, and has noth- ing to do with the formation of the intercarotid ganglion, although it has been believed by some authors (Schaper) that the ganglion was derived from the thickening of the wall of the vessel. The fact that in some animals, such as the rat and the dog, the ganglion stands in relation with the external caro- tid and. receives its blood-supply from that vessel is of import- ance in this connection. The thickening of the internal carotid disappears in the higher vertebrates almost entirely, but in the Amphibia it per- sists throughout life, the lumen of the proximal part of the vessel being converted into a fine meshwork by. the numerous trabeculae which traverse it. This carotid labyrinth has been termed the carotid gland, a circumstance which has probably assisted in producing confusion as to the real significance of the intercarotid ganglion. The Organs of Zuckerkandl.—In embryos of 14.5 mm, there have been found, in front of the abdominal aorta, closely packed groups of cells which resemble in appear- ance the cells composing the ganglionated cord, two of these groups, which extend downward along the side of the aorta to below the point of origin of the inferior mesenteric artery, being especially distinct. These cell groups give rise to the ganglia, of the prsevertebral sympathetic plexuses and also to peculiar bodies which, from their discoverer, may be termed the organs of Zuckerkandl. Each body stands in intimate relation with the fibers of the sympathetic plexuses and has a rich blood-supply, resembling in these respects the intercarotid ganglia, and the resemblance is further increased by the fact that the specific cells of the organ are markedly chromaffine. At birth the bodies situated in the upper portion of the398 THE ORGANS OF ZUCKERKANDL. abdominal cavity have broken up into small masses, but the two lower ones, mentioned above, are still well defined (Fig. 219). Even these, however, seem to disappear later on and no traces of them have as yet been found in the adult, ci a i.c Fig. 219.—Organs of Zuckerkandl from a New-born Child. a, Aorta; ci, inferior vena cava; i.c, common iliac artery; mi, inferior mesenteric artery; n.l and n.r, left and right accessory organs; pl.a, aortic plexus; u, ureter; v.r.s, left renal vein.— (Zuckerkandl.) LITERATURE. A. KoHN : "Ueber den Bau und die Entwickelung der sog. Carotis- driise," Archiv. fiir mikrosk. Anat., lvi, 190c. A. KoHN: " Das chromaffine Gewebe," Ergebn. der Anat. und Ent- wickelungsgesch., xii, 1902.LITERATURE. 399 H. Poll : " Die vergleichende Entwickelungsgeschichte der Nebeimieren- systeme der Wirbeltiere," Herhvig's Handh. der vergl. und exper. Enhi'ickhingslchrc der Wirbeltiere, lu, 1906. A. SouLiE: " Recherches sur le developpement des capsules surrenales chez les Vertebres," Journ. de I'Anat. et de la Physiol, xxxix, 1903. J. Wiesel: " Beitrage zur Anatomic und Entwickelung der mensch- lichen Nebenniere," Anat. Heft., xix, 1902. E. ZucKERKANDL: " Uebcr Nebenorgane des Sympathicus im Retro- peritoneal raum des Menschen," Verhandl. Anat. Gesellsch., xv, 1901.400 CHAPTER XV. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The Histogenesis of the Nervous System.—The entire central nervous system is derived from the cells lining the medullary groove, whose formation and conversion into the medullary canal has already been described (p. 98). When the groove is first formed, the cells lining it are some- what more columnar in shape than those on either side of it, though like them they are arranged in a single layer; later they increase by mitotic division and arrange them- selves in several layers, so that the ectoderm of the groove becomes very much thicker than that of the general surface of the body. While its tissue is in this condition the lips of the groove unite, and the subsequent differentiation of the canal so formed differs somewhat in different regions, although a fundamental plan may be recognized. This plan is most readily perceived in the region which becomes the spinal cord, and may be described as seen in that region. Throughout the earlier stages, the cells lining the inner wall of the medullary tube are found in active proliferation, some of the cells so produced arranging themselves with their long axes at right angles to the central canal and extending throughout the entire thickness of the wall to form a supportive framework (Fig. 220), while others, whose destiny is for the most part not yet determinable, and which therefore may be termed indiiferent cells, occur in the meshes of this framework. At this stage a trans- verse section of the medullary tube shows it to be composedTHE HISTOGENESIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 4OI mv of two well-defined zones, an inner one immediately sur- rounding the central canal and composed of the indifferent cells and the bodies of the supportive or ependymal cells, and an outer one consisting of the branched prolongations of the ependymal cells. This outer layer is termed the m-Ql'giliciI vehmi .(R^ndschleier) (Fig. 220, mv). The in- different cells now be- gin to wander outward to form a definite layer, termed the man- tle layer J lying between the marginal velum and the bodies of the ependymal cells (Fig. 221), and when this layer has become well established the cells composing it begin to divide and to differen- tiate into (i) cells termed neuroblasts, destined to become nerve-cells, and (2) others which appear to be supportive in charac- ter and are termed neu- roglia cells (Fig. 221, B). The latter are for the most part small and have their cell-bodies drawn out into very numerous and exceedingly slender processes, which ramify among the neuroblasts, these, on the other hand, being larger and each early developing a single strong process which grows out nito the marginal velum and is known as an avis- os Fig. 220.—Ependymal Cells from the Spinal Cord of an Embryo of 4.25 MM. mv, Marginal velum.—(i/w.)402 THE HISTOGENESIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. cylinder. At a later period the neuroblasts also give rise to other processes, termed deiuiritcs, more slender and shorter than the axis-cylinders, branching repeatedly and, as a rule, not extending beyond the limits of the mantle layer. The axis-cylinder processes of the majority of the neuro- blasts on reaching the marginal velum bend upward or downward and, after traversing a greater or- less length of the cord, re-enter the mantle layer and terminate by A B Fig. 221—Diagrams showing the Development of the Mantle Layer in the Spinal Cord. The circles, indifferent cells; circles with dots, neuroglia cells; shaded cells, germinal cells; circles with cross, germmal cells m mitosis; black cells, nerve-cells.—(6'c//a/'^r.) dividing into numerous short branches which come into relation with the dendrites of adjacent neuroblasts. Tlie processes of certain cells situated in the ventral region of the mantle zone pass, however, directly through the mar- ginal velum out into the surrounding tissues and constitute t\vt ventral nerve-roots (Fig. 224). The dorsal nerve-roots have a very different origm. In embryos of about 2.5 mm., in which the medullary canalTHE HISTOGENESIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 403 is only partly closed (Fig, 42), the cells which lie along the line of transition between the lips of the groove and the general ectoderm form a distinct ridge readily recognized in sections and termed the neural crest (Fig. 222, A). When the lips of the groove fuse together the cells of the crest unite to form a wedge-shaped mass, completing the closure of the canal (Fig. 222, B), and later proliferate so as to. extend outward over the surface of the canal (Fig. 222, C). Since this proliferation is most ac- tive in the regions of the crest which correspond to the mesodermic somites there is formed a series of cell masses, arranged segmentally and situated in the mesenchyme at the sides of the medullary canal (Fig. 206). These cell-masses represent the dorsal root_£an£lia, and certain of their constitu- ent cells, which may also be termed neuroblasts. Fig. 222.—Three Sections through THE Medullary Canal of an Em- bryo OF 2.S Mu.~(vo7i Lenhossek.) early assume a fusiform shape and send out a process from each extremity. One of these processes, the axis-cylinder, grows inward toward the medullary canal and penetrates its marginal velum, and, after a longer or shorter course in this zone, enters the mantle layer and comes into contact with the dendrites of some of the central neuroblasts. The other process extends peripherally and is to be regarded extremely elongated dendrite. The processes from the cells of each ganglion404 THE HISTOGENESIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. aggregate to form a nerve, that formed by the axis-cylinders being the posterior root of a spinal nerve, while that formed by the dendrites soon tmites with the ventral nerve-root^of the corresponding segment to form the main stem ^f a spinal nerve. There is thus a very important difference in the mode of development of the two nerve-roots, the__a^ds-C}d]nd^^ of the ventral roots arising^ from cells situated in the wall of the medullarv canal and growing outward (ceritrifu- gally), while those of the dorsal root sprmg from cells situ- d Fig. 223.—Cells from the Gasserian Ganglion of a Guinea-pig Embryo. a, Bipolar cell; h and c, transitional stages to d, T-shaped cells.— {von Gehuchten.) nted peripherallv and ^row inwM'd (centripetally) toward the medullary canal. In_the_niajority of the dorsal root ganglia the points of origin of the two processes of each bi^poTarcelT gradually approach one another and eventually come to^ri^e from a common stem, a process of the cell-body, which thus assumes a characteristic T form. From what has been said it will be seen that each axis- cylinder is an outgrowth from a single neuroblast and is part of its cell-body, as are also the dendrites. Another view has, however, been advanced to the effect that the nerve fibers firstTHE HISTOGENESIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 405 appear as chains of cells and that the axis-cylinders, being differentiated from the cytoplasm of the chains, are really multicellular products. Many difficulties stand in the way of the acceptance of this view and recent observations, both his- togenetic (Cajal) and experimental (Harrison) tend to con- firm the unicellular origin of the axis-cylinders. The embryo- logical evidence therefore goes to support the neurone theory, which regards the entire nervous system as composed of sepa- rate units, each of which corresponds to a single cell and is termed a neurone. By the development of the axis-cylinders which occupy the meshes of the marginal velum, that zone increases in thickness and comes to consist principally of nerve-fibers, while the cell-bodies of the neurones of the cord are situ- ated in the mantle zone. No such definite distinction of color in the two zones as exists in the adult is, however, noticeable until a late period of development, the medullary sheaths, which give to the nerve-fibers their white appear- ance not beginning to appear until the fifth month and con- tinuing to form from that time onward until after birth. The origin of the myelin which composes the medullary sheaths is as yet uncertain, although the more recent obser- vations tend to show that it is picked out from the blood and deposited around the axis-cylinders in some manner not yet understood. Its appearance is of importance as being associated with the beginning of the functional activity of the nerve-fibers. In addition to the medullary sheaths the majority of the fibers of the peripheral nervous system are provided with primitive sheaths, which are lacking, however, to the fibers of the central system. They are formed by cells which wander out from the dorsal root-ganglia and are therefore of ectodermal origin. Frog larvae deprived of their neural crests at an early stage of development produce ventral nerve fibers altogether destitute of primitive sheaths (Harrison).406 THE HISTOGENESIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. Various theories have been advanced to account for the formation of the medullary sheaths. It has been held that the myelin is formed at the expense of the outermost portions of the axis-cylinders themselves (von Kolliker), and, on the other hand, it has been regarded as an excretion of the cells which compose the primitive sheaths surrounding the fibers (Ran- vier), a theory which is, however, invalidated by the fact that myelin is formed around the fibers of the central nervous sys- tem which possess no primitive sheaths. As stated above, the more recent observations (Wlassak) indicate its exogenous origin. It has been seen that the central canal is closed in the mid-dorsal line by a mass of cells derived from the neural crest Tliese cells do not take part in the formation of the mantle layer, biit become completely converted into e]>en(l\'nial tissue, and the same is true of the cells situated in the mid-ventral line of the canal. In these two regions, known as the roof-pkite and floovulate respectively, the wall of the canal has a characteristic structure and does not share to any great extent in the increase of thickness which distinguishes the other regions (Fig. 224). In the lateral walls of the canal there is also noticeable a differentiation into two regions, a dorsal one standing in relation to the ingrowing fibers from the dorsal root ganglia and known as the dorsal zone, and a ventral one, the ventral zone, simi- larly related to the ventral nerve-roots. In different regions of the medullary tube these zones, as well as the roof- and floor-plates, undergo different degrees of development, pro- ducing peculiarities which may now be considered. The Development of the Spinal Cord.—Even before the lips of the medullary groove have met a marked enlarge- ment of the anterior portion of the canal is noticeable, the region which will become the brain being thus distinguished from the more posterior portion which will be converted into the spinal cord. When the formation of the meso- dermic somites is completed, the spinal cord terminates at407 THE SPINAL CORD. the level of the last somite, and in this region still retains its connection with the ectoderm of the dorsal surface of the body; but in thtit portion of the cord which is posterior to the first coccygeal segment the histological differentiation does not proceed beyond the stage when the walls consist of several layers of similar cells, the formation of neuro- blasts and nerve-roots ceasing with the segment named. After the fourth month the more differentiated portion elongates at a much slower rate than the surrounding tissues and so appears to recede up the spinal canal, until its ter- mination is opposite the second lumbar vertebra. The less differentiated portion, which retains its connection with' the ectoderm until about the fifth month, is, on the other hand, drawn out into a slender filament whose cells degenerate during the sixth month, except in its uppermost part, so that it comes to be represented throughout the greater part of its extent by a thin cord composed of pia mater. This cord is the structure known in the adult as the filum terminale, and lies in the center of a leash of nerves occupying the lower part of the spinal canal and termed the cauda equina. The existence of the cauda is due to the recession of the cord which necessitates for the lower lumbar, sacral and coccygeal nerves, a descent through the spinal canal for a greater or less distance, before they can reach the inter- vertebral foramina through which they make their exit. In the early stages of development the central canal of the cord is quite large and of an elongated oval form, but later it becomes somewhat rhomboidal in shape (Fig. 224, A), the lateral angles marking the boundaries between the dorsal and ventral zones. As development proceeds the sides of the canal in the dorsal region gradually approach one another ajxd. eventually fuse, so that this portion of ^ilL.?.^"^^ becomes obliterated (Fig. 224, B) and is indi- cated by the dorsalJongitudinal fissure in the'adult cord.^THE SPINAL CORD. 4o8 the central cand^ol which corresponds to the ventral por- ^'^9-^ .9.^!y. of the embryonic cavity. While this process has been going on both the roof- aiid the floor-plate have be- below the level'of the generar surface'o"f the cord^and by a continuance of the depression of the floor- plate—a process really due to the enlargement and conse- quent bulging of the ventral zone—the^anterior median fis- FiG. 224.—Transverse Sections through the Spinal Cords of Em- bryos OF (A) ABOUT Four and a Half Weeks and (B) about Three Months. cBj Fasciculus of Burdach; cG, fasciculus of Goll; dh, dorsal horn; dz, dorsal zone; fp, floor-plate; ob, oval bundle; rp, roof-plate; vh, ventral horn; ventral zone.—(His.) sure is produced, the difference between its shape and that of the dorsal fissure being due to the difference in its devel- opment. The development of the mantle layer proceeds at first more rapidly in the ventral zone than in the dorsal, so that at an early stage (Fig. 224, A) the anterior horn of grayTHE BRAIN. 409 matter is much more pronounced, but on the development of the dorsal nerve-roots the formation of neuroblasts in the dorsal zone proceeds apace, resulting in the formation of a dorsal horn. A small portion of the zone, situated between the point' of entrance of the dorsal nerve-roots and the roof-plate, fails, however, to give rise to neuroblasts and is entirely converted into ependyma. This represents the future fasciculus of Goll (Fig. 224, A,cG), and at the point of entrance of the dorsal roots into the cord a welTmarl^ed oval biin.dle~oflibers i^s_fomed.(Fig. 224, A, oh) which, as^ development proceeds, creeps dorsally over the surface of the'^ofsal horn until it meets the lateral surface of the fas- - ciculuFo^f Goll, and, its further progress toward the niedian line being thus impeded, it insinuates itself J)etween that fascrculus and the posterior horn to form the fasciculus of Burdach (Fig. 224, B, cB). Little definite is as yet known concerning the development of the other fasciculi which are recognizable in the adult cord, but it seems certain that the lateral and anterior cerebro-spinal (pyramidal) fasciculi are composed of fibers which grow downward in the meshes of the marginal velum from neuro- blasts situated in the cerebral cortex, while the cerebello-spinal (direct cerebellar) fasciculi and the fibers of the ground- bundles have their origin from cells of the mantle layer of the cord. The myelination of the fibers of the spinal cord begins between the fifth and sixth months and appears first in the fasciculi of Burdach, and about a month later in the fasciculi of Goll. The myelination of the great motor paths, the lateral and anterior cerebro-spinal fasciculi, is the last to develop, appearing toward the end of the ninth month of_fetal life. The Development of the Brain.—The enlargement of the anterior portion of the medullary canal does not take place quite uniformly, but is less along two transverse lines than elsewhere, so that the brain region early becomes di- vided into three primary vesicles which undergo further dif- ferentiation as follows. Upon each side of the anterior 36THE BRAIN. 410 7i my vesicle an evagination appears and becomes converted into a club-shaped structure attached to the ventral portion of the vesicle by a pedicle. These evaginations (Fig. 225, op) are known as the Qplic evazinations, and being concerned in the formation of the eye will be considered in the succeeding chapter. After their forma- tion the antero-lateral portions of the vesicle become bulged out into two protuberances (/?) which rapidly increase in size and give rise eventually to the two cerebral .hemispheres, which form, together with the portion of the vesicle which lies between them, what is termed the telencephalon or fore-brain, the remainder of the vesicle giving rise to what is known as the diojccplwhui or 'Iwccn- brain (Fig. 225, t). The mid- dle vesicle is bodily converted into the mesencephalon or 7nid- brain (m), but the posterior vesicle differentiates so that three parts may be recognized: (i) a rather narrow portion which immediately succeeds the mid-brain and is termed the isthmus (i); (2) a portion whose roof and floor give rise to the cerebellum and pons respectively, and which is termed the metencephalon or hind-brain (mt) ; and (3) a terminal portion which is known as the medulla oblongata, or, to retain a consistent nomenclature, the myelencephalon or Fig. 225.—Reconstruction of THE Brain of an Embryo of 2.15 MM, h, Hemisphere; i, isthmus; m, mesencephalon; mf, mid-brain flexure; mt, metencephalon; my, myelencephalon ; nf, neck flexure; ot, otic capsule; op, optic evagination; t, dien- cephalon.— (His.)411 THE BRAIN. aficr-hrain {my). From each of these six divisions de- finite structures arise whose relations to the secondary divisions and to the primary vesicles may be understood from the following table and from the annexed figure (Fig. 226), which represents a median longitudinal section of the brain of a fetus of three months. ' Myelencephalon Medulla oblongata (I). 3r(l Vesicle, * Metencephalon Isthmus Pons (II l). Cerebellum (II 2). Brachia conjunctiva (III). Cerebral peduncles (posterior portion). 2nd Vesicle, Mesencephalon Cerebral peduncles (anterior portion) (IV i). Corpora quadrigemina (IV 2). 1st Vesicle,. Diencephalon Telencephalon Pars mammillaris (V i). Thalamus (V 2). Epiphysis (V 3). Infundibulum (VI i). Corpus striatum (VI 2). I Olfactory bulb (VI 3)- [ Hemispheres (VI 4). But while the walls of the primary vesicles undergo this complex differentiation, their cavities retain much more per- fectly their original relations, only that of the first vesicle sharing to any great extent the modifications of the walls. The cavity of the third vesicle persists in the adult as the fourth ventricle, traversing all the subdivisions of the vesi- cle; that of the second, increasing but little in height and breadth, constitutes the aqiucductus cerebri; while that of the first vesicle is continued into the cerebral hemispheres to form the lateral ventricles, the remainder of it constitutingTHE BRAIN. 412 the third ventricle, which includes the cavity of the median portion of the telencephalon as well as the entire cavity of the diencephalon. During the differentiation of the various divisions of the brain certain flexures appear in the roof and floor, and to a certain extent correspond with those already described as occurring in the embryo. The first of these flexures to appear occurs in the region of the mid-brain, the first vesicle Fig. 226.—Median Longitudinal Section of the Brain of an Embryo OF the Third Month.— (His.) being bent ventrally until it comes to lie at practically a right angle with the axis of the mid-brain. This may be termed the mid-brain flexure (Fig. 225, mf) and corre- sponds with the head-bend of the embryo. The seco£d flexure occurs in the region of thejiiedulla oblongata and is known as the neck flexure (Fig. 225, nf); it corresponds with the similarly named bend of the embryo and is pro- duced by a bending ventrally of the entire head, so that the axis of the mid-brain comes to lie almost at right angles with that of the medulla and that of the first vesicle parallelTHE MYELENCEPHALON. withjt._ Finally, a third flexure occurs in the region of the "^n^encephalqn and is entirely peculiar to the nervous sys- tern; it consists of^a bending ventrally of the floor of the hind-brain, the_.rooLgfJhis portion of, the brain not being affected by it, and it may consequently be known as the pons flexure. In the later, development the pons flexure practically dis- ajDp^rs, owing to the development in this region of the transverse fibers and nyclei of the pons, but the mid-brain and neck flexures persist^ though greatly reduced in acute- ness. the axis of the anterior portion of the adult brain l^eing inclined to that of the medulla at an angle of about 134 degrees. The Development of the Myelencephalon.—In its poste- rior portion the myelencephalon closely resembles the spinal cord and has a very similar development. More anteriorly, however, the roof-plate (Fig. 227, rp) widens to form an. exceedingly thin membrane, the posterior velum; with the broadening of the roof-plate there is associated a broaden- ing of the dorsal portion of the brain_cayity, the dorsal and ventral zones bending outward, until, in the anterior por- tion of the after-brajn, the margins of the dorsal zone have a lateral position, and are, indeed, bent ventrally to form a reflected Jip^ (Fig. 227). The portion of the Jourth ventricle contained in this division of the brain becomes thus converted into a broad shallow cavity, whose floor is formed by the ventral zones separated in the median line by a deep groove, the floor of which is the somewhat thick- ened floor-plate. About ^he fourth month there appears in thej;oo£-jgilate_a transverse groove into which the surround- ing mesenchyme dips, and, as the groove deepens in later stages, the mesenchyme contained within it becomes con- verted into blood-vessels, forming the chorioid plexus oi the fourth ventricle, a structure which, as may be seen from its414 THE MYELENCEPllALON. development, does not He within the cavity of the ventricle, but is separated from it by the portion of the roof-plate w^hich forms the floor of the groove. In embryos of about 9 mm. the differentiation of the dorsal and ventral zones into ependymal and mantle layers is clearly visible (Fig-. 227), and in. the ventral zone the marginal velum is also well developed Where^the fibers from the sensory ganglion of the^vagus nerve enter thT dorsal zone an^oyal area (Fig. 227, fs) is to be seen which is evidently comparable to the oval bundle of the cord and Fig. 227.—Transverse Section through the Medulla Oblongata OF .AN Embryo of 9.1 mm. rf^, Dorsal zone; fp, floor-plate; fs, fasciculus solitarius; /, lip; rp, roof- plate; V2, ventral zone; X and XII, tenth and twelfth nerves.— (His.) consequently with the fasciculus of Burdach. It gives rise to the solitary fasciculus of adult anatomy, and in embryos of II to 13 mm. it becomes covered in by the fusion of the reflected lip of the dorsal zone with the sides of the myelen- cephalon^ this fusion, at the same time, drawing the mar- gins of the roof-plate ventrally to form a secondary lip (Fig. 228). Soon after this a remarkable migration ven- trally of neuroblasts of the dorsal zonebegins. IncreasingTHE MYELENCEPHALON. rapidly in number the migrating cells pass on either side of the solitary fasciculus toward the territory of the ventral zone, and, passing ventrally to the ventral portion of the mantle layer, into which fibers have penetrated and which bemrnes the fnrmatio f^Air.ularix (Fig. 228, fr), they dif- ferentiate to form the olivary body (ol). The thickening of the floor-plate gives opportunity for fibers to pass across the median line from one side to the other, and thjs opportunity is taken advantage of at an early stage by_the jjcis-cylinderj of the neuroblasts^f the s/ Fig. 228.—Transverse Section through the Medulla Oblongata OF AN Embryo of about Eight Weeks. av, Ascending root of the trigeminus; fr, reticular formation; ol, olivary body; j/;, solitary fasciculus; tr, restiform body; XII, hypoglossal nerve.—(Hw.) ventral zone, and later, on th^ establishmjen^ the olivary, bodies, other fibers, _descjg.acling from the cerebellum,' de- cussate in this region to..^ass^o„the olivary body of 'thT opposite side. In the ^wer p^rhpf the^^^edulla fibers from the neuroblasts_ofjhejtii^^ ^l^j^j^ jgem to be^deyelogments froni the mantk layer of the dor- sal zone, also decussate m the substance of the floor-plate; these fibers,_kipw£asjhe ajxuatejbers^ pass in part To "the cerebellum, associating themselves with fibers' ascending4i6 THE MYELENCEPHALON. from the spinal cotcI and witli the oHvary fibers to form a round bundle situated in theHoi'saT portion~qjf' the marginal velum and known asJhe restiform body (Fig, 228, trY. The principal differentiations of the zones of the myelen- cephalon may be stated in tabular form as follows: Roof-plate, Posterior velum Dorsal zones, ' Nuclei of termination of sensory roots of cranial nerves. Nuclei of GoU and Burdach. ^ The olivary bodies. r Nuclei of origin of the motor roots of Ventral zones, J cranial nerves. The reticular formation. "Ploor-plate, The median raphe. The Development of the Metencephalon and Isthmus.— Our knowledge of the development of the metencephalon, isthmus, and mesencephalon is by no means as complete as is that of the myelencephalon. The pons develops as a thickening of the portion of the brain floor which forms the anterior wall of the pons flexure, and its transverse fibers are well developed by the fourth month (Mihalko- vicz), but all details regarding the origin of the pons nuclei are as yet wanting. If one may argue from what occurs i^the myelencephalon, it seems probable that the reticular formation of the metencephalon is derived from the ventral zone, and that the median raphe represents the floor-plate. Furthermore, the relations of the pons nuclei to the reticu- lar formation on the one hand, and its connection by means of the transverse pons fibers with the cerel^ellum on the other, su£g;est_the possibility thnt they may be the meten- cephalic representatives^^ nf thp olivary bodies and are formed by a migxatipa-Ji^ntralLv.,neuroblasts from the dorsal zones.THE CEREBELLUM. The cerebellum is formed from the dorsal zones and_roof- plate of the metencephalon and is a thickening of the tissue immediatelY_ anterior to the front edge of the posterior veluiTi. This latter structure has in early stages a rhom- boidal shape (Fig. 229, A) which causes the cerebellar thickening to appear at first as if composed of two lateral portions inclined obliquely toward one another. In reality, however, the thickening extends entirely across the roof of the brain (Fig. 229, B), the roof-plate probably being invaded by cells from the .dor§g.l zones and so giving rise to the vermis, while the lobes are formed directly from the dorsal zones. During the second month a groove appears Fig. 229.—.4, Dorsal View of the Brain of a Rabbit Embryo of 16 MM.; B, Median Longitudinal Section of a Calf Embryo of 3 cm. c. Cerebellum; m, m'id-hva'm.— (Mihalkovic2.) on the ventral surface of each lobe, marking out an area which becomes the iiocculus, and later, during the third month, transverse furrows appear upon the vermis dividing it into five lobes, and later still extend out upon the lobes and increase in number to produce the lamellate structure characteristic of the cerebellum. The histogenetic development of the cerebellum at first proceeds along the lines which have already been described as typical, but after the development of the mantle layer the cells lining the greater portion of the cavity of the ventricle cease to multiply, only those which are situatedTHE CEREBELLUM. 4i8 in the roof-plate of the metencephalon and along the line of junction of the cerebellar thickening with the roof-plate continuing to divide. The indifferent cells formed in these regions migrate_putward from the median line and forward in the marginal velum to form a superficial layer, known as the epithdioid layer, and cover the entire surface of the cerebellum. The cells of this layer, like those of the man- tle, differentiate into neuroglia cells and neuroblasts, the latter for the most part ^^^^ Tvr. Fig. 230.—Diagram Representing the Differentiation of the Cerebellar Cells. The circles, indifferent cells; circles with dots, neuroglia cells; shaded cells, ger- minal cells; circles with cross, ger- minal cells in mitosis; black cells, nerve-cells. L, Lateral recess; M, median furrow, and R, floor of IV, fourth ventricle.—(Schaper.) migrating centrally at a later stage to mingle with the cells of the mantle layer and to become transformed in- to the granular cells of the cerebellar cortex. The neuroglia cells re- main at the surface, however, forming the princfpal constituent of the outer or, as it is now termed, the ino- Icciilcir layer oT tlitr into this cortex, the dendrites of Purkinje cells, prob- ably derived from the mantle layer, project. The migra- fion of the neuroblasts of the epithelial layer is probably completed before birth, at which time but few remain in the molecular laver to form the stellate cells of the adult^ The ong2n_oLthedenta^^ nuclei of the cerebellum is at present unknown, but it seems probable thaLthey_arise_ from^cefls of the mantle layer." The nerve-fibers which form the medullary substance of419 THE ISTHMUS. the cerebelkim dojiojLmake their appearance until aboutjhe sixth month, when they are to be found in the ependymal tissue on_tlie inner surface of the layer of granular cells. Tliose which are not commissural or associative, in function converge to the line~oF junction of the cerebellum with_ the pons, and there pass into, the marginal velum of the pons, myelencephalon, or isthmua as the case may be. The dorsal surface of the isthmus is at first barely dis- tinguishable from the cerebellum, but as development pro- ceeds its roof-plate undergoes changes similar to those occurring in the medulla oblongata and becomes converted,^ into the anterior velun\. In the dorsal portion of its mar- ginal velum fibers_passing to and from the cerebellum ap- pear and form the brachia c0n iunctiva.. while ventrally fibers^escending from the more anterior portions of the brain_, form the cerebral peduncles. Nothing is at present known as to the history of the gray matter of this division of the brain, although it may be presumed that its ventral zones take part in the formation of the tegmentum, while from its dorsal zones the nuclei of the brachia conjunctiva are possibly derived. The following table gives the origin of the principal struc- tures of the metencephalon and isthmus: Roof-plate, Dorsal zones, Posterior velum. Anterior velum. Vermis of cerebellum. Lobes of cerebellum. Brachia conjunctiva. Flocculi. Nuclei of termination of sensory roots of cranial ^ nerves. Pons nuclei. Nuclei of origin of motor Posterior part of cere- roots of cranial nerves. bral peduncles. Reticular formation. Posterior part of teg- mentum. Floor-plate, Median raphe. Median raphe. Ventral zones,420 THE MESENCEPHALON. The Development of the Mesencephalon.—Our knowl- edge of the development of this portion of the brain is again very imperfect. During- the stages when the flexures of the brain are well marked (Figs. 225 and 226) it forms a very prominent structure and possesses for a time a capa- cious cavity. Later, however, it increases in size less rap- idly than adjacent parts and its walls thicken, the roof- and floor-plates as well as the zones, and, as a result, the cavity becomes the relatively smaller canal-like cerebral aqujeduct. In the marginal velum of its ventral zone fibers appear at about the third month, forming the anterior portion of the cerebral peduncles, and, at the same time, a median longi- tudinal furrow appears upon the dorsal surface, dividing it into two lateral elevations which, in the fifth month, are divided transversely by a second furrow and are thus con- verted from corpora bigemina (in which form they are found in the lower vertebrates) into corpora qundrigemhia. Nothing is known as to the differentiation of the gray mat- ter of the dorsal and ventral zones of the mid-brain. From the relation of the parts in the adult it seems probable that in addition to the nuclei of origin of the oculomotor and trochlear nerves, the ventral zones give origin to the gray matter of the tegmentum, which is the forward continuation of the reticular formation. Similarly it may be supposed that the corpora quadrigemina are developments of the dorsal zones, as may also be the red nuclei, whose relations to the brachia conjunc- tiva suggest a comparison with the olivary bodies and the nuclei of the pons. A tentative scheme representing the origin of the mid-brain structures may be stated thus: Roof-plate, (?) f Corpora quadrigemina. Dorsal zones, [^^^^ Ventral zones, < Nuclei of origin of the third and fourth nerves. Anterior part of tegmentum. Anterior part of cerebral peduncles. Floor-plate, Median raphe.THE DIENCEPHALON. 421 The Development of the Diencephalon.—A transverse section through the diencephalon of an embryo of about five weeks (Fig. 231) shows clearly the differentiation of this portion of the brain into the typical zones, the roof-plate (rp) being represented by a thin-walled, somewhat folded area, the floor-plate (fp) by the tissue forming the floor of a well-marked ventral groove, while" each lateral wall is divided into a dorsal and ventral zone by a groove known as the sulcus Monroi (Sin), which extends forward and ventrally toward the point of origin of the optic evagination (Fig. 233). At the posterior end of the ridge-like elevation which represents the roof-plate is a rounded elevation (Fig. 232, p) which, in later stages, elongates until it almost reaches the dermis, forming a hollow evagination of the brain roof known as the pineal process. The distal extremity of this process enlarges to a sac-like structure which later becomes lobed, and, by an active pro- liferation of the cells lining the cavities of the various lobes, finally becomes a solid structure, the pineal body. The more proximal portion of the evagination, remaining hol- low, forms the pineal stalk, and the entire structure, bodv and stalk, constitutes what is known as the epiphysis. The significance of this organ in the Mammalia is doubtful in the Reptiha and other lower forms the outgrowth is double" a secondary outgrowth arising from the base or from the anterior wall of the primary one. This anterior evao-ination elongates until it reaches the dorsal epidermis of the head and Fig. 231.—Transverse Sec- tion OF THE Diencephalon OF AN Embryo of Five Weeks. ds, Dorsal zone; fp, floor-plate; rp, roof-plate; Stn, sulcus Monroi; V2, ventral zone.— (His.)422 THE DIENCEPTTALON. nea there expanding, develops into an impaired eye, the epidermis which overhes it becoming converted into a transparent cor- In the MammaHa this anterior process does not develop and the epiphysis in these forms is comparable only to the posterior process of the Reptilia. In addition to the epiphy- sial evaginations, another evagination arises from the roof-plate of the first brain vesicle, further forward, in the region which becomes the median portion of the telen- cephalon. This parcuphysis, as it has been called, has been observed in the lower verte- brates and in the Marsupials (Selenka), but up to the pres- ent has not been found in other groups of the Mamma- lia. It seems to be compar- able to a chorioid plexus which is evaginated from the brain surface instead of being invaginated as is us- ually the case. There is no evidence that a paraphysis is developed in the h u m a n brain. The portion of the roof- plate which lies in front of the epiphysis represents the velum interpositum of the adult brain, and it forms at first a distinct ridge (Fig. 232). At an early stage. Fig. 232.—Dorsal View of the Brain, the Roof of the Lat- eral Ventricles being Re- MOV'ED, OF an Embryo of 13.6 MM. b, Superior brachium; eg, lateral geniculate body; cp, chorioid plexus; cqa, anterior corpus quadrigeminum; h, hippocam- pus; hf, hippocampal fissure; ot, thalamus; p, pineal body; rp, roof-plate.— (His.) however, it becomes reduced to a thin membrane upon the sufrace of which blood-vessels, developing in the surrounding mesenchyme, arrange them- selves at about the third month in two longitudinal plexuses.THE DIENCEPHALON. which, with the subjacent portions of the velum, become invaginated into the cavity of the third ventricle to form its chorioid plexus. The dorsal zones thicken in their more dorsal and ante- rior portions to form massive structures, the thalami (Figs. 226, V2, and 232, ot), which, encroaching upon the cavity of the ventricle, transform it into a narrow slit-like space, so narrow, indeed, that at about the fifth month the inner surfaces of the two thalami come in contact in the median line, forming what is known as the intermediate mass. More ventrally and posteriorly another thickening of the dorsal zone occurs, giving rise on each side to the pulvinar of the thalamus and to a lateral geniculate body, and two ridges extending backward and dorsally from the latter structures to the thickenings in the roof of the mid-brain which represent the anterior corpora quadrigemina, give a path along which the nerve-fibers which constitute the supe- rior quadrigeminal brachia pass. From the ventral zones what is known as the hypothala- mic region develops, a mass of fibers and cells whose rela--* tions and development are not yet clearly understood, but which may be regarded as the forward continuation of the tegmentum and reticular formation. In the median line of the floor of the ventricle an unpaired thickening appears, representing the corpora mamillaria, which during the third month becomes divided by a median furrow into two rounded eminences; but whether these structures and the posterior portion of the tuber cinereum, which also develops from this region of the brain, are derivatives of the ventral zones or of the floor-plate Is as yet uncertain. Assuming that the mamillaria and the tuber cinereum are derived from the ventral zones, the origins of the structures formed from the walls of the diencephalon may be tabulated as follows:424 THE TELENCEPHALON. Roof-plate, i ^^!""^ interpositum. I Epiphysis. Dorsal zones, Thalami. Pulvinares. Lateral geniculate bodies. r Hypothalamic region. Ventral zones, J Corpora mamillaria. Tuber cinereum (in part). Floor-plate, Tissue of mid-ventral line. The Development of the Telencephalon.—For convenience of description the telencephalon may be regarded as con- sisting of a median portion, which contains the anterior part of the third ventricle, and two lateral outgrowths which con- stitute the cerebral hemispheres. The roof of the median portion undergoes the same transformation as does the greater portion of that of the diencephalon and is converted into the anterior part of the velum interpositum (Fig. 226, vi). Anteriorly this passes into the anterior wall of the third ventricle, the lamina terminalis (It), a structure which is to be regarded as formed by the union of the dorsal zones *of opposite sides, since it lies entirely dorsal to the anterior end of the sulcus Monroi. From the ventral part of the dorsal zones the optic evaginations are formed, a depression, the optic recess (or), marking their point of origin. The ventral zones are but feebly developed, and form the anterior part of the hypothalamic region, while at the ante- rior extremity of the floor-plate an evagination occurs, the infundibular recess (ir), which elongates to form a funnel- shaped structure known as the hypophysis. At its extremity the hypophysis comes in contact during the fifth week with the enlarged extremity of Rathke's pouch formed by an invagination of the roof of the oral sinus (see p. 301). and applies itself closely to the posterior surface of this (Fig. 219) to form with it the pituitary body. The anterior lobe at an early stage separates from the mucous membrane ofTHE TELENCEPHALON. 425 the oral sinus, the stalk by which it was attached completely- disappearing, and toward the end of the second month it be- gins to send out processes from its walls into the surrounding mesenchyme and so becomes converted into a mass of solid epithelial cords embedded in a mesenchyme rich in blood and lymphatic vessels. The cords later on divide transversely to a greater or less extent to form alveoli, the entire struc- ture coming to resemble somewhat the parathyreoid bodies (see p. 315), and, like these, having the functic^n of pro- /./• W $'5 Fig. 233.—Median Longitudinal Section of the Brain of an Em- bryo OF 16.3 MM. br, Anterior brachium; eg, corpus geniculatum laterale; cs, corpus striatum; h, cerebral hemisphere; ir, infundibular recess- It lamma terminahs;_or, optic recess; ot, thalamus; p, pineal process- sm, sulcus Monroi; st, hypothalamic region; vi velum interposi- tum.— {His.) ducing an internal secretion. The posterior lobe, derived from the brain, retains its connection with that structure, its stalk being the infundihulum, but its terminal portion does not undergo such extensive modifications as does the ante- rior lobe, although it is claimed that it gives rise to a glandu- lar epithelium which may become arranged so as to form alveoli. The cerebral hemispheres are formed from the lateral 37426 THE TELENCEPHALON. portions of the dorsal zones, each possessing also a prolonga- tion of the roof-plate. From the more ventral portion of each dorsal zone there is formed a thickening, the corpus striatum (Figs. 233, cs, and 226, VI 2), a structure which is for the telencephalon what the optic thalamus is for the diencephalon, while from the more dorsal portion there is formed the remaining or mantle (pallial) portions of the hemispheres (Figs. 233, h, and 226, VI 4). When first formed, the hemispheres are slight evaginations from the median portion of the telencephalon, the openings by which their cavities communicate with the third ventricle, the mter- vcntricular foramina, being relatively very large (Fig. 233), but, in later stages (Fig. 226), the hemispheres increase more markedly and eventually surpass all the other portions of the brain in magnitude, overlapping and completely con- cealing the roof and sides of the diencephalon and mesen- cephalon and also the anterior surface of the cerebellum. In this enlargement, however, the interventricular foramina share only to a slight extent, and consequently become rela- tively smaller (Fig. 226), forming in the adult merely slit- like openings lying between the lamina terminalis and the thalami and having for their roof the anterior portion of the velum interpositum. The velum interpositum,—that is to say, the roof-plate,— where it forms the roof of the interventricular foramen, is prolonged out upon the dorsal surface of each hemisphere, and, becoming invaginated, forms upon it a groove. As the hemispheres, increasing in height, develop a mesial wall, the groove, which is the so-called chorioidal fissure, comes to lie along the ventral edge of this wall, and as the growth of the hemispheres continues it becomes more and more elon- gated, being carried at first Ixickward (Fig. 234), then ven- trally, and finally forward to end at the tip of the temporal lobe. After the establishment of the grooves the mesen-427 THE TELENCEPHALON. chyme in their vicinity dips into them, and, developing blood- vessels, becomes the chorioid plexuses of the lateral ven- tricles, and at first these plexuses grow much more rapidly than the ventricles, and so fill them almost completely. Later, however, the walls of the hemispheres gain the ascendancy in rapidity of growth and the plexuses become relatively much smaller. Since the portions of the roof-plate which form the chorioidal fissures are continuous with the velum interpositum in the roofs of the interventricular foramina, the chorioid plexuses of the lateral and third ventricles be- come continuous also at that point. The mode of growth of the chorioid fissures seems to indicate the mode of growth of the hemispheres. At first the growth is more or less equal in all directions, but later it be- comes more extensive posteriorly, there being more room for ex- pansion in that direction, and when further extension backward becomes difficult the posterior ex- tremities of the hemispheres bend ventrally toward the base of the cranium, and reaching this, turn forward to form the temporal lobes. As a result the cavities of the hemispheres, the lateral ven- tricles, in addition to being carried forward to form an anterior horn, are also carried backward and ventrally to form the lateral or descending horn, and the corpus striatum likewise extends backward to the tip of each tem- poral lobe as a slender process known as the tail of the caudate nucleus. In addition to the anterior and lateral horns, the ventricles of the human brain also possess Fig. 234.—Median Longi- tudinal Section of the Brain of an Embryo Calf of 5 cm. ch, Cerebellum; cp, chorioid plexus; cs, corpus stria- tum; fM, interventricular foramen ; in, hypophysis ; m, mid-brain; oc, optic commissure; t, posterior part of the diencephalon. — {Mihalkovicz.)428 THE TELENCEPHALON. posterior horns extending backward into the occipital por- tions of the hemispheres, these portions, on account of the greater persistence of the mid-brain flexure (see p. 412), being enabled to develop to a greater extent than in the lower mammals. The scheme of the origin of parts in the telencephalon may be stated as follows: Median Part. Hemispheres. Roof-plate, { Anterior part of Velum r Floor of chorioidal fis- interpositum. \ sure. Dorsal zones, •• • | Ventral zones, .. -= Lamina terminalis. Optic evaginations. Anterior part of hypo- thalamic region. Anterior part of tuber cinereum. Pallium. Corpus striatum.. Olfactory lobes (see p. 433). The Convolutions of the Hemispheres.—The growth of the hemispheres to form the voluminous structures found in the adult depends mainly upon an increase of size of the jpallium. The corpus striatum, although it takes part in the elongation of each hemisphere, nevertheless does not increase in other directions as rapidly and extensively as the pallium, and hence, even in very early stages, a depres- sion appears upon the surface of the hemispheres where the corpus is situated (Fig. 275). This depression is the lateral cerebral fossa, and for a considerable period it is the only sign of inequality of growth on the outer surfaces of the hemispheres. Upon the mesial surfaces, however, at about the time that the chorioid fissure appears, another linear depression is formed dorsal to the chorioid, and when fully formed extends from in front of the interventricular fora- men to the tip of the temporal lobe (Fig. 237, h). It affects ■429 THE CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. V the entire thickness of the pallial wall and consequently pro- duces an elevation upon the inner surface, a projection into the cavity of the ventricle which is known as the hippocam- pus, whence the fissure may be termed the hippocampal fis- sure. The portion of the pallium which intervenes between this fissure and the chorioidal forms what is known as the dentate gyrus. Toward the end of the third or the beginning- of the fourth month two prolonga- tions arise from the fissure just where it turns to be continued into the temporal lobe, and these, extending posteriorly, give rise to the parieto-occipital and calcarine fissures. Like the hippocampal, these fissures produce elevations upon the in- ner surface of the pal- lium, that formed by the parieto-occipital early disappearing, while that produced by the calcarine persists to form the calcar {hippocampus minor) of adult anatomy. The three fissures just described, together with the chorioidal and the lateral cerebral fossa, are all formed by the beginning of the fourth month and all affect the entire thickness of the wall of the hemisphere, and hence have been termed the primary or total fissures. Until the begin- ning of the fifth month they are the only fissures present, but at that time secondary fissures, which, with one excep- tion, are merely furrows of the surface of the pallium, Fig. 235.—Bbain of an Embryo of the Fourth Month. c, Cerebellum; p, pons, s, lateral cere- bra fossa.430 THE CEREBRAL CONVOLUTIONS. make their appearance and continue to form until birth and possibly later. Before considering these, however, certain changes which occur in the neighborhood of the lateral cerebral fossa may be described. The fossa is at first a triangular depression situated above the temporal lobe on the surface of the hemisphere. During the fourth month it deepens considerably, so that its upper and lower margins become more pronounced and Fig. 236.—Cerebral Hemisphere of an Embryo of about the Seventh s, Superior frontal sulcus; ip, interparietal; IR, insula; pci, inferior pre-central; pes, superior pre-central; ptc, post-central; R, central; .S", lateral; t^, first temporal.— (Cunningham.) form projecting folds, and, during the fifth month, these two folds approach one another and eventually cover in the floor of the fossa completely, the groove which marks the line of their contact forming the lateral cerebral fissure, while the floor of the fossa becomes known as the insula. The first of the secondary fissures to appear is the sulcus cingiilij which is formed about the middle of the fifth month Month.THE CORPUS CALLOSUM. on the mesial surface of the hemispheres, lying parallel to the anterior portion of the hippocampus fissure and divid- ing the mesial surface into the gyri marginalis and forni- catus. A little later, at the beginning of the sixth month, several other fissures make their appearance upon the outer surface of the pallium, the chief of these being the central sulcus, the inter-parietal, the pre- and post-central, and the temporal sulci, the most ventral of these last running paral- lel with the lower portion of the hippocampal fissure and diflfering from the others in forming a ridge on the wall of the ventricle termed the collateral eminence, whence the fissure is known as the collateral. The position of most of these fissures may be seen from Fig. 236, and for a more complete description of them reference may be had to text- books of descriptive anatomy. In later stages numerous tertiary fissures make their appearance and mask more or less extensively the seconda- ries, than which they are, as a rule, much more inconstant in position and shallower. The Corpus Callosum and Fornix.—While these fissures have been forming, important structures have developed in connection with the lamina terminalis. Up to about the fourth month the lamina is thin and of nearly uniform thickness throughout, but at this time it begins to thicken near its dorsal edge and fibers appear in the thickening, converting it into the anterior commissure. Immediately above and in front of the upper edge of the lamina ter- minalis the medial walls of the two cerebral hemispheres come into contact and fuse, and the area of fusion soon becomes continuous with the thickened upper edge of the lamina (Fig. 237). In later stages the area of''concres- cence of the hemispheres extends both anteriorly and pos- teriorly and assumes the form of a triangle with its apex directed backwards. In the dorsal portion of the triano-le432 THE CORPUS CALLOSUM. fibers extend across from the pallium of one hemisphere to that of the other and form the corpus callosum (Fig. 238), while in its ventral edge other fibers extend from the hippo- campus to the lamina terminalis, and, descending in that structure, pass posteriorly in the floor of the third ventricle toward the corpora mamillaria. These fibers constitute the fornix, whose peculiar course in the adult brain may be under- stood by a consideration of the rotation of the hemispheres during growth which results in the formation of the temporal lobe (see p. 427). The portion of the triangle included be- tween the callosum and the fornix remains thin and forms the septum pellucidum, and a split Fig. 237.—Median Longitudinal Sec- tion OF THE Brain of an Embryo of Four Months. c, Calcarine fissure; ca, anterior commis- sure; cc, corpus callosum; cf, chori- oidal fissure; dg, dentate gyrus; fm, interventricular foramen; h, hippo- campal fissure; po, parieto-occipital fissure.— {Mihalkovicz.) occurring in the center of this gives rise to the so-called fifth ventricle, which, from its mode of formation, is a com- pletely closed cavity and is not lined with ependymal tissue of the same nature as that found in the other ven- tricles. Owing to the very considerable size reached by the area of concrescence of the hemispheres, whose history has just been described, important changes are wrought in the ad- joining portions of the mesial surface of the hemispheres. Before the development of the area the gyrus dentatus andTHE CORPUS CALLOSUM. 433 tlie hippocampus extend forward into the anterior portion of the hemispheres (Fig. 237), but on account of their posi- tion they become encroached upon by the enlargement of the corpus callosum, with the result that the hippocampus be- comes practically ob- literated in that por- tion of its course which lies in the re- gion occupied by the corpus callosum, its fissure in this region becoming known as the callosal fissure, while the correspond- ing portions of the dentate gyrus become reduced to narrow and insignificant bands of nerve-tissue which rest upon the upper surface of the corpus callosum and are known as the lateral longitudinal strict. Some doubt still exists as to the exact mode of formation of the fifth ventricle. Some authors maintain that it is a por- tion of the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum, separated from the rest by the forward growth of the corpus callosum and finally closed by the secondary union of the rostrum with the lamina terminalis. The Olfactory Lobes.—At the time when the cerebral hemispheres begin to enlarge—that is to say, at about the fourth week—a slight furrow, which appears on the ven- tral surface of each anteriorly, marks off an area which, continuing to enlarge with the hemispheres, gradually be- comes constricted off from them to form a distinct lol)e-like 38 Fig. 238.—Median Longitudinal Sec- tion OF THE Brain of an Embryo of THE Fifth Month. ac. Anterior commissure; cc, corpus cal- losum ; dg, dentate gyrus; f, fornix; i, infundibulum; mc, intermediate mass; si, septum pellucidum; vi, velum interpositum.— {Mihalkovicz.)434 THE OLFACTORY LOBES. Structure, the olfactory lobe (Fig. 219, VI 3). In most of the lower mammaha these lobes reach a very consider- able size, and consequently have been regarded as consti- tuting an additional division of the brain, known as the rhinencephalon, but in man they remain smaller, and al- though they are at first hollow, containing prolongations from the lateral ventricles, the cavities later on disappear and the lobes become solid.^ Each lobe becomes differen- tiated into two portions, its terminal portion becoming con- verted into the club-shaped structure, the olfactory bulb and stalk, while its proximal portion gives rise to the olfactory tracts, the trigone, and the anterior perforated substance. Histogenesis of the Cerebral Cortex.—A satisfactory study of the histogenesis of the cortex has not yet been made. In embryos of three months a marginal velum is present and probably gives rise to the stratum zonale of the adult brain; beneath this is a cellular layer, perhaps representing the mantle layer; beneath this, again, a layer of nerve-fibers is beginning to appear, representing the white substance of the pallium; and, finally, lining the ventricle is an ependymal layer. In embryos of the fifth month, toward the innermost part of the second layer, cells are beginning to differentiate into the large pyramidal cells, but almost nothing is known as to the origin of the other layers recognizable in the adult cortex, nor is it known whether any migration, similar to what occurs in the cere- bellar cortex, takes place. The fibers of the white sub- stance do not begin to acquire their myelin sheaths until toward the end of the ninth month, and the process is not completed until some time after birth (Flechsig), while the fibers of the cortex continue to undergo myelination until comparatively late in life (Kaes). The Development of the Spinal Nerves.—It has already been seen that there is a fundamental difYerence in the mode435 THE SPINAL NERVES. of development of the two roots of which the typical spinal nerves are composed, the ventral root being formed by axis- cylinders which arise from neuroblasts situated within the substance of the spinal cord, while the dorsal roots arise from the cells of the neural crests, their axis-cylinders grow- ing into the substance of the cord while their dendrites become prolong-ed peripherally to form the sensory fibers of the nerves. Throughout the thoracic, lumbar and sacral regions of the cord the fibers which grow out from the anterior horn cells converge to form a single nerve-root in each segment, but in the cervical region fibers which arise from the more laterally situated neuroblasts make their exit from the cord independently of the more ventral neuroblasts and form the roots of the spinal accessory nerve (see p 444), In the cervical region there are accordingly three sets of nerve-roots, the dorsal, lateral, and ventral sets. In a typical spinal nerve, such as one of the thoracic series, the dorsal roots as they grow peripherally pass down- ward as well as outward, so that they quickly come into con- tact with the ventral roots with whose fibers they mingle, and the mixed nerve so formed soon after divides into two trunks, a dorsal one, which is distributed to the dorsal mus- culature and integimient, and a larger ventral one. The ventral division as it continues its outward growth soon reaches the dorsal angle of the pleuro-peritoneal cavity, where it divides, one branch passing into the tissue of the body-wall while the other passes into the splanchnic meso- derm. The former branch, continuing its onward course in the body-wall, again divides, one branch becoming the lateral cutaneous nerve, while the other continues inward to terminate in the median ventral portion- of the body as the anterior cutaneous nerve. The splanchnic branch forms a ramus communicans to the sympathetic system and will be considered more fully later on.THE CRANIAL NERVES. 436 The conditions just described are those which obtain throughout the greater part of the thoracic region. Else- where the fibers of the ventral divisions of the nerves as they grow outward tend to separate from one another and to become associated with the fibers of adjacent nerves, giving rise to plexuses. In the regions where the limbs occur the formation of the plexuses is also associated with a shifting of the parts to which the nerves are supplied, a factor in plexus formation which is, however, much more evident from comparative anatomical than from embryo- logical studies. The Development of the Cranial Nerves.—During the last thirty years the cranial nerves have received a great deal of attention in connection with the idea that an accu- rate knowledge of their development would afTord a clue to a most vexed problem of vertebrate morphology, the metamerism of the head. That the metamerism which was so pronounced in the trunk should extend into the head was a natural supposition, strengthened by the discovery of head-cavities in the lower vertebrates and by the indica- tions of metamerism seen in the branchial arches, and the problem which presented itself was the correlation of the various structures belonging to each metamere and the de- termination of the modifications which they had undergone during the evolution of the head. In the trunk region a nerve forms a conspicuous element of each metamere and is composed, according to what is known as Bell's law, of a ventral or efferent and a dorsal or afferent root. Until comparatively recently the study of the cranial nerves has been dominated by the idea that it was possible to extend the application of Bell's law to them and to recognize in the cranial region a number of nerve pairs serially homologous with the spinal nerves, some of them, however, having lost their afferent roots, while inTHE CRANIAL NERVES. 437 Others a dislocation, as it were, of the two roots had oc- curred. The results obtained from investigation along this line have not, however, proved entirely satisfactory, and facts have been elucidated which seem to show that it is not possible to extend Bell's law, in its original form at least, to the cranial nerves. It has been found that it is not sufficient to recognize simply afferent and efferent roots, but these must be analyzed into further components, and when this is done it is found that in the series of cranial nerves certain components occur which are not represented in the nerves of the spinal series. Before proceeding to a description of these components it will be well to call attention to a matter already alluded to in a previous chapter (p. no) in connection with the segmentation of the mesoderm of the head. It has been pointed out that while there exist " head-cavities " which are serially homologous with the mesodermal somites of the trunk, there has been imposed upon this primary cranial metamerism a secondary metamerism represented by the branchiomeres associated with the branchial arches, and, it may be added, this secondary metamerism has become the more prominent of the two, the primary one, as it devel- oped, gradually slipping into the background until, in the higher vertebrates, it has become to a very considerable extent rudimentary. In accordance with this double me- tamerism it is necessary to recognize two sets of cranial muscles, one derived from the cranial myotomes and rep- resented by the muscles of the eyeball, and one derived from the branchiomeric mesoderm, and it is necessary also to recognize for these two sets of muscles two. sets of motor nerves, so that, with the dorsal or sensory nerve-roots, there are altogether three sets of nerve-roots in the cranial region instead of only two, as in the spinal region.438 THE CRANIAL NERVES. These three sets of roots are readily recognizable both in the embryonic and in the adult brain, especially if atten- tion be directed to the cell groups or nuclei with which they are associated (Fig. 239). Thus there can be recognized: (I) a series of nuclei from which nerve-fibers arise, situ- ated in the floor of the fourth ventricle and iter close to the median line and termed the ventral motor nuclei; (2) a second series of nuclei of origin, situated more laterally and YiG 239—Transverse Section through the Medulla Oblongata OF an Embryo of 10 mm., showing the Nuclei of Origin of the Vagus (X) and Hypoglossal (X//) Nerves.—(Hu.) in the substance of the formatio reticularis, and known as the lateral motor nuclei; and (3) a series of nuclei in which afferent nerve-fibers terminate, situated still more laterally in the floor of the ventricle and forming the dorsal or sen- sory nuclei. None of the twelve cranial nerves usually recognized in the text-books contains fibers associated with all three of these nuclei; the fibers from the lateral motorTHE CRANIAL NERVES. 439 nuclei almost invariably unite with sensory fibers to form a mixed nerve, but those from all the ventral motor nuclei form independent roots, while the olfactory and auditory nerves alone, of all the sensory roots (omitting for the pres- ent the optic nerve), do not contain fibers from either of the series of motor nuclei. The relations of the various cranial nerves to the nuclei may be seen from the following table, in which the + sign indicates the presence and the — sign the absence of fibers from the nuclear series under which it stands: Number. I. III. IV. V. VI. VII. VIII. IX. X. XI. Name. Olfactory. Oculomotor. Trochlear. Trigeminus. Abducens. Facial. Auditory. Glossopharyngeal. Vagus. Spinal Accessory. Ventral Motor. + + + Lateral M otor. + + + Sensory. + + + + + + Two nerves—namely, the second an4 twelfth—have been omitted from the above table. Of these, the second or optic nerve undoubtedly belongs to an entirely different category from the other peripheral nerves, and will be considered in the following chapter in connection with the sense-organ with which it is associated (see especially p. 491). The twelfth or hypoglossal nerve, on the other hand, really be- longs to the spinal series and has only secondarily been taken up into the cranial region in the higher vertebrates. It has already been seen (p. 179) that the bodies of four vertebrae are included in the basioccipital bone, and that three of the nerves corresponding to these vertebrae are represented in the adult by the hypoglossal and the fourth by the first cer- vical or suboccipital nerve. The dorsal roots of the hypo-THE CRANIAL NERVES. 440 glossal nerves seem to have almost disappeared, although a ganglion has been observed in embryos of 7 and 10 mm. in the posterior part of the hypoglossal region (His), and prob- ably represents the dorsal root of the most posterior portion of the hypoglossal nerve. This ganglion disappears, as a rule, in later stages, and it is interesting to note that the ganglion of the suboccipital nerve is also occasionally want- ing in the adult condition. The hypoglossal roots are to be regarded, then, as equivalent to the ventral roots of the cervical spinal nerves, and the nuclei from which they arise lie in series with the cranial ventral motor roots, a fact which indicates the equivalency of these latter with the fibers which arise from the neuroblasts of the anterior horns of the spinal cord. The ec[uivalents of the lateral motor roots may more con- veniently be considered later on, but it may be pointed out here that these are the fibers which are distributed to the muscles of the branchiomeres. In the case of the sensory nerves a further anal3^sis is necessary before their equiva- lents in the spinal series can be determined. For this the studies which have been made in recent years of the com- ponents entering into the cranial nerves of the amphibia (Strong) and fishes (Herrick) must supply a basis, since as yet a direct analysis of the mammalian nerves has not been made. In the forms named it has been found that three different components enter into the formation of the dorsal roots of the cranial nerves: (i) fibers belonging to a general cutaneous or somatic 'sensory system, distributed to the skin without being connected with any special sense- organs; (2) fibers belonging to what is termed the com- munis or viscerosensory system, distributed to the walls of the mouth and pharyngeal region and to special organs found in the skin of the same character as those occurring in the mouth; and (3) fibers belonging to a special set of441 THE CRANIAL NERVES. cutaneous sense-organs largely developed in the fishes and known as the organs of the lateral line. The fibers of the somatic sensory system converge to a group of cells, situated in the lateral part of the floor of the fourth ventricle and forming what is termed the tri- geminal lobe, and also extend posteriorly in the substance of the medulla (Fig. 240), forming what has been termed the spinal root of the trigeminus and terminating in a column of cells which represents the forward continuation of the posterior horn of the cord. In the fishes and am- phibia fibers belonging to this system are to be found in the fifth, seventh, and tenth nerves, but in the mammalia their distribution has apparently become more limited, being con- fined almost exclusively to the trigeminus, of whose sensory divisions they form a very considerable part. Since the cells around which the fibers of the spinal root of the tri- geminus terminate are the forward continuations of the pos- terior horns of the cord, it seems probable that the fibers of this system are the cranial representatives of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, which, it may be noted, are also somatic in their distribution. The fibers of the viscero-sensory system are found in the lower forms principally in the ninth and tenth nerves (see Fig. 240), although groups of them are also incorporated in the seventh and fifth. They converge to a mass of cells, known as the lobus vagi, and like the first set are also con- tinued down the medulla to form a tract known as the fas- ciculus solitarius or fasciculus communis. In the mammalia the system is represented by the sensory fibers of the glosso- pharyngeo-vagus set of nerves, of which it represents prac- tically the entire mass; by the sensory fibers of the facial arising from the geniculate ganglion and included in the chorda tympani and probably also the great superficial petrosal; and also, probably, by the lingual branch of the442 THE CRANIAL NERVES. trigeminus. Furthermore, since the mucous membrane of the palate is supphed by branches from the trigeminus which pass by way of the spheno-palatine (Meckel's) ganghon, and the same region is supphed in lower forms by a palatine branch from the facial, it seems probable that the palatine Fig. 240.—Diagrams showing the Sensory Components of the Cranial Nerves of a Fish (Menidia). The somatic sensory system is unshaded, the viscero-sensory is cross- hatched, and the lateral line system is black. asc.v. Spinal root of trigeminus; brx, branchial branches of vagus; ol, olfactory bulb; op, optic nerve; rc.x, cutaneous branch of the vagus; rix, intestinal branch of vagus; rl, lateral line nerve; rl.acc, accessory lateral line nerve; ros, superficial ophthalmic; i-p, ramus palatinus of the facial; thy, hyomandibular branch of the facial; t.iiif, infra- orbital nerve.— (Herrick.) nerves of the mammalia are also to be assigned to this sys- tem.* If this be the case, a very evident clue is afforded to * The" fact that the palatine branches are associated with the tri- geminus in the Mammalia and with the facial in the Amphibia is readily explained by the fact that in the latter the Gasserian and geniculate ganglia are not always separated, so that it is possible for fibers origi- nating from the compound ganglion to pass into either nerve.TI-IE CRANIAL NERVES. 443 the homologies of the system in the spinal nerves, for since the spheno-palatine ganglion is to be regarded as part of the sympathetic system, the sensory fibers which pass from the viscera to the spinal cord by way of the sympathetic system (p. 448) present relations practically identical with those of the palatine nerves. Finally, with regard to the system of the lateral line, there seems but little doubt that it has no representation whatso- ever in the spinal nerves. It is associated with a peculiar system of cutaneous sense-organs found only in aquatic or marine animals, and also with the auditory and possibly the olfactory organs, the former of which are certainly and the latter possibly primarily parts of the lateral line system of organs. The organs are principally confined to the head, although they also extend upon the trunk, where they are followed by a branch from the vagus nerve, the entire system being accordingly supplied by cranial nerves. In the fishes, in which the development of the organs is at a maximum, fibers belonging to the system are found in all the branchio- meric nerves and all converge to a portion of the medulla known as the tubcradum acusticum. In the Mammalia, with the disappearance of the lateral line organs there has been a disappearance of the associated nerves, and the only certain representative of the system which persists is the auditory nerve. The table given on page 439 may now be expanded as follows, though it must be recognized that such an analysis of the mammalian nerves is merely a deduction from what has been observed in lower forms, and may require some modifications when the components have been subjected to actual observation:444 THE CRANIAL NERVES. Nerve. Vemral Motor. Lateral Motor. Somatic Sensory. Visceral Sensory. Lateral Line. I. in. IV. 1 nr + — + — V V • VI. 1 + 4- — VIL VIII IX. ^ + 4- 4 + 4- 4- XII. + spinal. + (?) + An additional word is necessary concerning the spinal accessory nerve, for it presents certain interesting relations which possibly furnish a clue to the spinal equivalents of the lateral motor roots. In the first place, the neuroblasts which give rise to those fibers of the nerve which come from the spinal cord are situated in the dorsal part of the ventral zones and in the adult in the lateral horn of the cord. As the nuclei of origin are traced anteriorly they will be found to change their position somewhat as the medulla is reached and eventually come to lie in the reticular formation, the most anterior of them being practically continuous with the motor nucleus of the vagus. Indeed, it seems that the spinal accessory nerve is properly to be regarded as an ex- tension of the vagus downward into the cervical region (Fiirbringer, Streeter), a process which reaches its greatest development in the mammalia and seems to stand in relation to the development of those portions of the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles which are supplied by the spinal accessory nerve. It is believed that the white rami communicantes which pass from the spinal cord to the thoracic and upper lumbar sympathetic ganglia arise from cells situated in the dorso- lateral portions of the ventral horns, and it is noteworthy that white rami are wanting in the region in which the spinalTHE CRANIAL NERVES. 445 accessory nerve occurs. Since this nerve represents a cranial lateral motor root the temptation is great to regard the cranial lateral motor roots as equivalent to the white rami of the cord, and this temptation is intensified when it is recalled that there are both embryological and topographical reasons for regarding the branchiomeric muscles, to which the cranial lateral motor nerves are supplied, as equivalent to the visceral muscles of the trunk. But in view of the fact that a sympathetic neurone is always interposed between a white ramus fiber and the visceral musculature, while the, lateral motor fibers connect directly with the branchiomeric musculature, it seems advisable to await further studies before yielding to the temptation. As regards the actual development of the cranial nerves, they follow the general law which obtains for the spinal nerves, the motor fibers being outgrowths from neuroblasts situated in the walls of the neural tube, while the sensory nerves are outgrowths from the cells of ganglia situated without the tube. In the lower vertebrates a series of gan- glia, known as the suprabranchial ganglia, are developed from the ectoderm along a line corresponding with the level of the auditory invagination, while on a line corresponding with the upper extremities of the branchial clefts another series occurs which has been termed that of the epibranchial ganglia, and with both of these sets the cranial nerves are in connection. In the mammalia these structures have not yet been sufficiently studied, but from the general relation- ship of the suprabranchial ganglia it seems probable that they are associated with the lateral line nerves and are con- sequently represented in the mammalia only by the ganglia of the auditory nerve. From what has been said above it is clear that the usual arrangement of the cranial nerves in twelve pairs does not rep- resent their true relationships with one another. The various pairs are serially homologous neither with one another norTHE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 446 with the typical spinal nerves, nor can they be regarded as rep- resenting twelve cranial segments. Indeed, it would seem that comparatively little information with regard to the number of myotomic segments which have fused together to form the head is to be derived from the cranial nerves, for while there are only four of these nerves which are associated with struc- tures equivalent to the mesodermic somites of the trunk, a much greater number of head cavities or mesodermic somites has been observed in the cranial region of the embryos of the lower vertebrates, Dohrn, for instance, having found nineteen and Killian eighteen in. the cranial region of Torpedo. Furth- ermore, it is not possible to say at present whether the branchi- omeres and their associated nerves correspond with one or several of the cranial mesodermic somites, or whether, indeed, any correspondence whatever exists. In early stages of development a series of constrictions have been observed in the cranial portion of the neural tube and have been regarded as indicating a primitive segmentation of that structure. The neuromeres, as the intervals between suc- cessive constrictions have been termed, seem to correspond with the cranial nerves as usually recognized and hence can- not be regarded as primitive segmental structures. They are more probably secondary and due to the arrangement of the neuroblasts corresponding to the various nerves. The Development of the Sympathetic Nervous Sys- tem.—From the embryological standpoint the distinction which has been generally recognized between the sympa- thetic and central nervous systems does not exist, the former having been found to be an outgrowth from the peripheral ganglia of the latter. This mode of origin has been observed with especial clearness in the embryos of some of the lower vertebrates, in which masses of cells have been seen to sepa- rate from the posterior root ganglia to form the ganglia of the ganglionated cord (Fig. 241). In the mammalia, in- cluding man, the relations of the two sets of ganglia to one another is by no means so apparent, since the sympathetic cells, instead of being separated from the posterior root ganglion en masse, migrate from it singly or in groups, and are therefore less readily distinguishable from the surround- ing mesodermal tissues.447 THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. Fig. 241.—Transverse Section through an Embryo Shark (Scyllium) OF 15 MM., SHOWING THE ORIGIN OF A SymP.\THETIC GanGLION. Ch, Notochord; E, ectoderm; G, posterior root ganglion; Gs, sympa- thetic ganglion; M, .spinal cord.— (Onodi.)44^ THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. To understand the development of the sympathetic sys- tem it must be rememl^ered that it consists typically of three sets of ganglia. One of these is constituted by the ganglia of the ganglionated cord (Fig. 242, GC), the second is represented by the ganglia of the praevertebral plexuses {PVG), such as the cardiac, solar, hypogastric, and pelvic, while the third or peripheral set (PG) is formed by the cells which occur throughout the tissues of probably most of the visceral organs, either in small groups or scattered through plexuses such as the Auerbach and Meissner plex- FiG. 242.—Diagram showing the Arrangement of the Neurones OF THE Sympathetic System. The fibers from the posterior root ganglia are represented by the broken black lines; those from the anterior horn cells by the solid black; the white rami by red; and the sympathetic neurones by blue. DR, Dorsal ramus of spinal nerve; GC, ganglionated cord; GR, gray ramus communicans; PG, peripheral ganglion; PVG, praevertebral ganglion; VR, ventral ramus of spinal nerve; WR, white ramus communicans.— {Adapted from Hiibcr.) uses of the intestine. Each cell in these various ganglia stands in direct contact with the axis-cylinder of a cell situated in the central nervous system, probably in the lat- eral horn of the spinal cord or the corresponding region of the brain, so that each cell forms the terminal link of a chain whose first link is a neurone belonging to the central system (Huber). Throughout the thoracic and upper449 THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. lumbar regions of the body the central system neurones form distinct cords known as the zvhite rami communicantes (Fig. 242, IVR), which pass from the spinal nerves to the adjacent ganglia of the ganglionated cord, some of them terminating around the cells of these ganglia, others pass- ing on to the cells of the prsevertebral ganglia, and others to those of the peripheral plexuses. In the cervical, lower lumbar and sacral regions white rami are wanting, the cen- tral neurones in the first-named region probably making their way to the sympathetic cells by way of the upper thoracic nerves, while in the lower regions they may pass down the ganglionated cord from higher regions or may join the prsevertebral and peripheral ganglia directly with- out passing through the proximal ganglia. In addition to these white rami, what are known as gray rami also extend between the proximal ganglia and the spinal nerves; these are composed of fibers, arising from sympathetic cells, which join the spinal nerves in order to pass with them to their ultimate distribution. The brief description here given applies especially to the sympathetic system of the neck and trunk. Representa- tives of the system are also found in the head, in the form of a series of ganglia connected with the trigeminus and facial nerves and known as the ciliary, spheno-palatine, otic, and submaxillary ganglia; and, as will be seen later, there are probably some sympathetic cells which owe their origin to the root ganglia of the vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves. There is nothing, however, in the head region cor- responding to the longitudinal bundles of fibers which unite the various proximal ganglia of the trunk to form the gan- glionated cord. The first indications of the sympathetic system are to be seen in a human embryo of about 7 mm. As the spinal nerves reach the level of the dorsal edge of the body-cavity, 39THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 450 they branch, one of tlie branches continuing ventrally in the body-wall, while the other (Fig. 243, wr) passes mesially toward the aorta, some of its fibers reaching that structure, while others bend so as to assume a longitudinal direction. These mesial branches represent the white rami communicantes, but as yet no ganglion cells can be seen in Fig. 243.—Transverse Section through the Spinal Cord of an Em- bryo OF 7 MM. c, Notochord; g, posterior root ganglion; ni, spinal cord; s, sympathetic cell migrating from the posterior root ganglion; zvr, white ramus.— (His.) their course. The cells of the posterior root ganglia have already, for the most part, assumed their bipolar form, but among them there may still be found a number of cells in the neuroblast condition, and these (Fig. 243, s), wander- ing out from the ganglia, give rise to a column of cellsTHE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. Standing in relation to the white rami. At first there is no indication of a segmental arrangement of the cells of the column (Fig. 244), but at about the seventh week such an arrangement makes its appearance in the cervical region, and later, extends posteriorly, until the column assumes the form of the ganglionated cord. Before, however, the segmentation becomes marked, thickenings appear at certain regions of the cell column, and from these, bundles of fibers may be seen extending ventrally toward the viscera. The thickenings represent certain of the praevertebral ganglia, and later cells wander out from them and take a position in front of the aorta. In an embryo of 10.2 mm. two ganglionic masses (Fig. 244, pc) occur in the vicinity of the origin of the omphalo- mesenteric artery {am), one lying above and the other below that vessel; these masses represent the ganglia of the cceliac plexus and have separated somewhat from the ganglionated cord, the fiber bundles which unite the upper mass with the cord representing the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves {sp), while that connected with the lower mass represents the connection of the cord with the superior mesenteric ganglion. Lower down, in the neighborhood of the umbilical arteries, is another enlargement of the cord {bg), which probably represents the inferior mesenteric and hypogastric ganglia which have not yet separated from the cell column. In the cervical region a similar origin of the ganglion cells of the cardiac plexus from the cell column seems to obtain. In embryos of about 7 mm. fibers may be seen extending from the column toward the heart, and, entering into close relationship with descending branches from the vagus, they form a plexus, the ganglia of which are com- posed of cells which have wandered from the cell column.THE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. 452 The elongated courses of the cardiac sympathetic and splanchnic nerves in the adult receive an explanation from the recession of the heart and diaphragm (see pp. 252 and 342), the latter process forcing downward the coeliac plexus, which originally occupied a position opposite the region of the gan- glionated cord from which the splanchnic nerves arise. Fig 244.-RECONSTRUCTION OF THE Sympathetic System of an Em- bryo OF 10.2 MM. am Omphalo-mesenteric artery; ao, aorta; an, umbilical artery; bg ganglionic mass representing the pelvic plexus; d, nitestine oc Sophagus; PC, ganglia of the ccrliac plexus; /./, pharynx; n. Hght vfgu. nervf; f^ splanchnic nerves; .v.. ganghona ed cord; J. trachea;*, peripheral sympathetic ganglia ni the walls of the stomach.—(Hw, Jr.)453 TI-IE SYMPATHETIC SYSTEM. The cells which occur in the peripheral plexuses have, in a similar manner, wandered out from their original posi- tion in the cell column. In lo mm. embryos groups of such cells have been observed both in the lesser and greater curvatures of the stomach (Fig. 244*), where they become connected with a plexus formed by fibers from the vagus nerves (rv). The wandering of sympathetic cells into the walls of the intestine has also been observed, and they form at first a single layer in the mesoderm of the intestinal wall, only later, on the differentiation of the muscle layers, becom- ing separated into the two layers which constitute the plex- uses of Auerbach and Meissner. Similarly cells reach the heart by wandering in some cases along fibers of the vagus, although they really, come from the cervical region of the ganglionated cord, and, having in their wandering met with fibers of the vagus, make use of them as paths by which they mav reach their destination. As regards the cephalic sympathetic ganglia, the observa- tions of Remak on the chick and Kolliker on the rabbit show that the ciliary, sphenopalatine, and otic ganglia arise by the separation of cells from the semilunar (Gasserian) gan- glion, and from their adult relations it may be supposed that the cells of the submaxillary and sublingual ganglia have similarly arisen from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. Evidence has also been obtained from human em- bryos that sympathetic cells are derived from the ganglia of the vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves, but, instead of forming distinct ganglia in the adult, these, in all proba- bility, associate themselves with the first cervical ganglia of the ganglionated cord.LITERATURE. 454 LITERATURE. S. R. Cajal: "Die histogenetische Beweise der Neuronentheorie von His und Forel," Anat. Anseiger, xxx, 1907. K. Goldstein: "Die erste Entwickelung der grossen Hirncommissuren und die ' Verwachsung' von Thalamus und Striatum," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Abth., 1903. G. Groenberg : " Die Ontogencse einer niederen Saugergehirns nach Untersuchungen an Erinaceus europaeus," Zoolog. Jahrb. Abth. f. Anat. und Ontogen., xv, igoi. R. G. Harrison : " Further Experiments on the Development of Peri- pheral Nerves," Amer. lourn. of Anat., w, 1906. W. His : " Zur Geschichte des menschlichen Riickenmarkes und der Nervenwurzeln," Abhandl. der kdnigl. S'dchsischen Gesellsch., Math.-Physik. Classe, xiii, 1886. W. His : " Zur Geschichte des Gehirns sowie der centralen und peripher- ischen Nervenbahnen beim menschlichen Embryo," Abhandl. der kdnigl. S'dchsischen Gesellsch., Math.-Physik. Classe, xiv, 1888. W. His : " Die Formentwickelung des menschlichen Vorderhirns vom Ende des ersten bis zum Beginn des dritten Monats," Abhandl. der kdnigl. Sdchsischen Gesellsch., Math.-Physik. Classe, xv, 1889. W. His : " Histogenese und Zusammenhang der Nervenelemente," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Abth., Supplement, 1890. W. His : " Die Entwickelung des menschlichen Gehirns wahrend der ersten Monate," Leipzig, 1904. W. His, Jr. : " Die Entwickelung des Herznervensystems bei Wirbel- thieren," Abhandl. der kdnigl. Scichsischen Gesellsch., Math.-Physik. Classe, xviii, 1893. W. His, Jr. : " Ueber die Entwickelung des Bauchsympathicus beim Hiihnchen und Menschen," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Abth., Supplement, 1897. C. J. Herrick : " The Cranial and First Spinal Nerves of Mcnidia: A Contribution upon the Nerve Components of the Bony Fishes," Journ. of Comp. Neurol., ix, 1899. C. J. Herrick: "The Cranial Nerves and Cutaneous Sense-organs of the North American Siluroid Fishes," Journ. of Comp. Neurol., XI, 1901. G. C. Huber: "Four Lectures on the Sympathetic Nervous System," Journ. of Comp. Neurol, vii, 1897. M. voN Lenhossek : " Die Entwickelung der Ganglienanlagen bei dein menschlichen Embryo," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1891. F. Marchand : " Ueber die Entwickelung des Balkens im menschlichen Gehirn," Archiv fur mikrosk. Anat., xxxvii, 1891.LITERATURE. 455 V. VON MiHALKOVicz: " Entwickelungsgeschichte des Gehirns," Leipzig, 1877. A. D. Onodi : " Ueber die Entwickelung des sympathischen Nervensys- tems/' Archiv filr mikrosk. Anat., xxvii^ 1886. G. Retzius : " Das Menschenhirn," Stockholm, 1896. A. ScHAPEiR: " Die friihesten Dififerenzirungsvorgange im Central- nerven-system," Archiv fiir Entwicklungsmcchanik, v, 1897. G. L. Streeter: "The Development of the Cranial and Spinal Nerves in the Occipital Region of the Human Embryo," Amer. Journ. Anat., IV, 1904. O. S. Strong : " The Cranial Nerves of Amphibia," Journal of Mor- phoL, X, 1895. R. Wlassak: "Die Herkunft des Myelins," Archiv fUr Entwicklungs- mechanik, vi, 1898. E. ZucKERKANDL: " Zur Entwickelung des Balkens und des Gewolbes," Sitzungsher. kais. Acad. Wissensch. Wien.; Math.-Naturm. Classe, cx, 1901.456 CHAPTER XVL THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. Like the cells of the central nervous system, the sensory cells are all of ectodermal origin, and in lower animals, such as the earthworm, for instance, they retain their orig- inal position in the ectodermal epithelium throughout life. In the vertebrates, however, the majority of the sensory cells relinquish their superficial position and sink more or less deeply into the subjacent tissues, being represented by the posterior root ganglion cells and by the sensory cells of the special sense-organs, and it is only in the olfactory organ that the original condition is retained. Those cells which have withdrawn from the surface receive stimuli only through an overlying cell or cells, and in certain cases these transmitting cells are not specially differentiated, the ter- minal branches of the sensory dendrites ending among ordi- nary epithelial cells or in such structures as the Pacinian bodies or the end-bulbs of Krause situated beneath undiffer- entiated epithelium. Li other cases, however, certain spe- cially modified superficial cells serve to transmit the stimuli to the peripheral sensory neurones, forming such structures as the hair-cells of the auditory epithelium or of the taste- buds. Thus three degrees of differentiation of the special sen- sory cells may be recognized and a classification of the sense-organs may be made upon this basis. One organ, however, the eye, cannot be brought into such a classifica- tion, since its sensory cells present certain developmentalTHE OLFACTORY ORGAN. 457 peculiarities which distinguish them from those of all other sense-organs. Emhryologically the retina is a portion of the central nervous system and not a peripheral organ, and hence it will be convenient to arrange the other sense-organs according to the classification indicated and to discuss the history of the eye at the close of the chapter. The Development of the Olfactory Organ.—The gen- eral development of the nasal fossa, the epithelium of which contains the olfactory sense cells', has already been described (pp. 8i and 89), as has also the development of the olfac- tory lobes of the brain (p. 433), and there remains for con- sideration here merely the formation of the olfactory nerve and the development of the rudimentary organ of Jacobson. The Olfactory Nerve.—Very diverse results have been obtained by various observers of the development of the olfactory nerve, it having been held at different times that it was formed by the outgrowth of fibers from the olfac- tory lobes (Marshall), from fibers which arise partly from the olfactory lobes and partly from the olfactory epithelium (Beard), from the cells of an olfactory ganglion originally derived from the olfactory epithelium but later separating from it (His), and, finally, that it was composed of the pro- longations of certain cells situated and, for the most part at least, remaining permanently in the olfactory epithelium (Disse). The most recent observations on the structure of the olfactory epithelium and nerve indicate a greater amount of probability in the last result than in the others, and the description which follows will be based upon the observa- tions of His, modified in conformity with the results ob- tained by Disse from chick embryos. In human embryos of the fourth week the cells lining the upper part of the olfactory pits show a distinction into ordinary epithelial and sensory cells, the latter, when fully formed, being elongated cells prolonged peripherally into a 40THE OLFACTORY ORGAN. 458 short but narrow process which reaches the surface of the epithehum and proximally gives rise to an axis-cyhnder process which extends up toward and penetrates the tip of the olfactory lobe to come into contact with the dendrites of the first central neurones of the olfactory tract (Fig. Fig. 245.—Diagram Illustrating the Relations of the Fibers of THE Olfactory Nerve. Ep, Epithelium of the olfactory pit; C, cribiform plate of the ethmoid, G, glomerulus of the olfactory bulb; M, mitral cell.— {Van Ge- huchten.) 245). These cells constitute a neuro-epithelium and in later stages of development retain their epithelial position for the most part, a few of them, however, withdrawing into the subjacent mese^iichyme and becoming bipolar, their periph-459 THE OLFACTORY ORGAN. eral prolongations ending freely among the cells of the ol- factory epithelium. These bipolar cells resemble closely in form and relations the cells of the embryonic posterior root, ganglia, and thus form an interesting transition between these and the neuro-epithelial cells. The Organ of Jacobson.—In embryos of three or four months a small pouch-like invagination of the epithelium covering the lower anterior portion of the median septum of the nose can readily be seen. This becomes converted into a slender pouch, 3 to 5 mm. long, ending blindly at its posterior extremity and opening at its other end into the nasal cavity. Its lining epithelium resembles that of the respiratory portion of the nasal cavity, and there is devel- oped in the connective tissue beneath its floor a slender plate of cartilage, distinct -from that forming the septum of the nose. This organ, which may apparently undergo degeneration in the adult, and in some cases completely disappears, ap- pears to be the representative of what is known as Jacobson's organ, a structure which reaches a much more extensive degree of development in many of the lower mammals, and in these contains in its epithelium sensory cells whose axis- cylinder processes pass with those of the olfactory sense cells to the olfactory bulbs. In man, however, it seems to be a rudimentary organ, and no satisfactory explanation of its function has as yet been advanced. The olfactory neuro-epithelium, considered from a com- parative standpoint, seems to have been derived from the system of lateral line organs so highly developed in the lower vertebrates (Kupffer). In higher forms the system, which is cutaneous in character, has disappeared except in two regions where it has become highly specialized. In one of these regions it has given rise to the olfactory sense cells and in the other to the similar cells of the auditory apparatus.46o THE ORGANS OF TASTE. The Organs of Touch and Taste.—Nothing is yet known concerning the development of the various forms of tactile organs, which belong to the second class of sensory organs described above. The Organs of Taste.—The remaining organs of special sense belong to the third class, and of these the organs of taste present in many respects the simplest condition. They are developed principally in connection with the vallate and foliate papillae of the tongue, and of the former one of the earliest observed stages has been found in embryos of 9 cm. in the form of two ridges of epidermis, lying toward Fig. 246.—Diagrams Representing the Development of a Vallate Papilla. a. Valley surrounding the papilla; b, von Ebner's gland.— (Graberg.) the back part of the tongue and inclined to one another in such a manner as to form a V with the apex directed back- ward. From these ridges solid downgrowths of epidermis into the subjacent tissue occur, each downgrowth having the form of a hollow truncated cone with its basal edge con- tinuous with the superficial epidermis (Fig. 246, A). In later stages lateral outgrowths develop from the deeper edges of the cone, and about the same time clefts appear in the substance of the original downgrowths (Fig. 246, B) and, uniting together, finally open to the surface, forming a trench surrounding a papilla (Fig. 246, C). The lateral outgrowths, which are at first solid, also undergo an axial degeneration and become converted into the glands of Ebncr (b), which open into the trench near its floor. The various461 THE INTERNAL EAR. papilku which occur in the adult do not develop simulta- neously, but their number increases with the age of the fetus, and there is, moreover, considerable variation in the time of their development. The taste-buds are formed by a differentiation of the epithelium which covers the papillae, and this differentiation appears to stand in intimate relation with the penetration of fibers of the glossopharyngeal nerve into the papillae. The buds form at various places upon the papillae, and at one period are especially abundant upon their free surfaces, but in the later weeks of intrauterine life these surface buds undergo degeneration and only those upon the sides of the trench persist, as a rule. The foliate papillae do not seem to be developed until some time after the circumvallate, being entirely wanting in em- bryos of four and a half and five months, although plainly recognizable at the seventh month. The Development of the Ear.—It is customary to de- scribe the mammalian ear as consisting of three parts, known as the inner, middle, and outer ears, and this division is, to a certain extent at least, confirmed by the embryonic devel- opment. The inner ear, which is the sensory portion proper, is an ectodermal structure, which secondarily becomes deeply seated in the mesodermal tissue of the head, while the middle and outer ears, which provide the apparatus necessary for the conduction of the sound-waves to the inner ear, are modi- fied portions of the anterior branchial arches. It will be convenient, accordingly, in the description of the ear, to accept the usually recognized divisions and to consider first of all the development of the inner ear, or, as it is better termed, the otocyst. The Development of the^ Otoc^t.—In an embryo, of 2.4 mm. a pair of pits occur upon the surface of the body about opposite the middle portion of the hind-brain (Fig. 247, A),462 THE INTERNAL EAR. The ectoderm lining the pits is somewhat thicl<er than is the neighboring ectoderm of the surface of the body, and, from analogy with what occurs in other vertebrates, it seems prob- able that the pits are formed by the invagination of localized thickenings of the ectoderm. The mouth of each pit grad- ually becomes smaller, until finally the invagination is con- verted into a closed sac (Fig. 247, B), which separates from the surface ectoderm and becomes enclosed within the sub- jacent mesoderm. This sac is the otocyst, and in the stage just described, found in embryos of 4 mm., it has an oval or more or less spherical form. Soon, however, in embryos of 6.9 mm., a prolongation arises from its dorsal portion Fig. 247.—Transverse Section Passing through the Otocyst (ot) OF Embryos of (A) 2.4 mm. and (B) 4 mm.—(His.) and the sac assumes the form shown in Fig. 248, A; this prolongation, which is held by some authors to be the re- mains of the stalk which originally connected the otocyst sac with the surface ectoderm, represents the ductus endo- ly_JJ];phcitj£ii£^ and, increasing in length, it soon becomes a strong club-shaped process, projecting considerably beyond the remaining portions of the otocyst (Fig. 248, B). In embryos of about 10.2 mm. the sac begins to show certain other irregularities of shape (Fig. 248, B,sc). Thus, about opposite the point of origin of the ductus endolymphaticus three folds make their appearance, representing the scini- circular ducts, and as they increase in size the opposite waTTsTHE INTERNAL EAR. of the central portion of each fold come together, fuse, and finally become absorbed, leaving the free edge of the fold as a crescentic canal, at one end of which an enlargement appears to form the ampulla. The transformation of the folds into canals takes place somewhat earlier in the cases of the two vertical than in that of the horizontal duct, as Fig. 248.—Reconstruction of the Otocysts of Embryo of {A) 6.9 MM. AND (5) 10.2 MM. dc. Endolymphatic duct; gc, ganglion cochleare; gg, ganglion genicula- tum; gv, ganglion vestibulare; sc, lateral semicircular duct.— {His, Jr.) may be seen from Fig. 249, which represents the condition occurring in an embryo of 13.5 mm. A short distance below the level at which the canals com- municate with the remaining portion of the otocyst a con- striction appears, indicating a separation of the otocyst into a more dorsal portion and a more ventral one. Later, the464 THE INTERNAL EAR. latter begins to be prolonged into a flattened canal wbich, as it elongates, -becomes coiled upon itself and also becomes separated by a constriction from the remaining portion of the otocyst (Fig. 250). This canal is the ductus cochlearis (scala media of the cochlea), and the remaining portion of the otocyst subsequently be- comes divided by a constriction into the utriculus. with which the semicircular ducts are con- nected, and the saccuhis. The constriction which separates the cochlear duct from the sacculus becomes the ductus while that between and sacculus is CO rcuniens, the utriculus converted into a narrow canal with which the ductus endo- 1^-npliatiais connects, and hence it is that, in the adult, the connection between these two portions of the otocyst seems to be formed by the ductus dividing proximally into two limbs, one of which is connected with the utricle and the other with the saccule. When first observed in the human embryo the auditory ganglion is closely associated with the geniculate ganglion of the seventh nerve (Fig. 248, B), the two, usually spoken of as the acustico^^ formingmas^.o^^^^^ lyjngjnclosjjcontact with the anterior wall ofjhe otocyst.. Thf^HghTof the ganglionic mass has not yet been traced Fig 249.—Reconstruction of THE Otocyst of an Embryo OF 13.5 MM. CO, Cochlea; de, endolymphatic duct; sc, semicircular — {His, Jr.) ductTHE INTERNAL EAR. 465 in the mammaha, but it has been observed that in cow em- bryos the geniculate gangHon is connected with the ectoderm at the dorsal end_of the first bmnchial clefjt (Frori^^^^^ iTma^rperhaps beTegarded as onejDf t^^^ epibranchiai gan- glia tsee p. 44?) > and in the lower vertebrates a union of the ganglion with a snprabranchial ganglion has been ob- sefved (Kupffer), tliis union indicating the origin of the Fig. 250.—Reconstruction of the Otocyst of an Embryo of 20 mm., front view. cc, common limb of superior and posterior semicircular ducts; eg, cochlear ganglion; co, cochlea; dc, endolymphatic duct; s, sacculus; sdl, sdf>, and sds, lateral, posterior and superior semicircular ducts; u, utriculus ; vg, vestibular ganglion.— (Streeter.) auditory ganglion from one or more of the ganglia of the lateral line system.^ At an early stage in the human embryo the auditory ganglion shows indications of a division into two portions, a more dorsal one, which represents the future ganglion vestibulare, and a ventral one, the ganglion cochleare. The ganglion cells become bipolar, in which condition they re-466 THE INTERNAL EAR. ^l^l^E^throughpiit_life, never reaching the T-shaped condi- tion found in most of the other peripheral cerebrd-spinal gangha. One of the prolongations of each cell is directed centrally to form a fiber of the auditory nerve, while the other penetrates the wall of the otocyst to enter into rela- FxG. 251.—The Right Internal Ear of an Embryo of Six Months. ca, ce, and cp, Superior, lateral, and posterior semicircular ducts; cr, crista acustica; de, endolymphatic duct; Is, spiral ligament; mb, basilar membrane; ms and mu, macula acustica sacculi and utri- culi; rb, basilar branches of the cochlear nerve.—(Retcius.) tions with certain specially modified cells which differentiate from its lining epithelium. In the earliest stages the ectodermal lining of the otocyst is formed of similar columnar cells, but later over the greaterTHE INTERNAL EAR. 467 part of the surface the cells flatten down, only a few. ag'^Ter gated together to form patches, retaining the high columnar form and developing hair-like processes upon theii; free sur- faces. These are the sensory cells of the ear. In the human ear there are in all six patches of these sensory ceHs, an elongated patch {crista ainpuUaris) in the ampulla of each semicircular canal (Fig. 251, cr), a round patch {itia- Ksp. Fig. 252.—Section of the Cochlear Duct of a Rabbit Embryo of 55 MM. a. Mesenchyme; b to e, epithelium of cochlear duct; M.t. membrana tectona; V.s.p, vein; i to 7, spiral organ of CoTt\.—{Baginsky.) cnla acustica, nm) in the utriculus and another (^msX m ths. sacculus, and, finally, an elongated patch which extends the eiitjre length^yhe^^la iTied^ajDj^^^ and forms the sensory cells of the spiral orfrannf_rnrtj^' the celirof this last patch are connected with the fibers from the coch- lear ganglion, while those of the vestibular ganglion pass to the cristas and maculae.468 THE INTERNAL EAR. In connection with the spiral organ certain adjace.nt celb also retain their columnar forni and undergo various modi- fications, giving rise to a rather complicated structure whose development has been traced in the ral^bit. Along the whole length of the cochlear duct the cells resting upon that half of the basilar membrane which is nearest the axis of the cochlea, and may be termed the inner half, retain their columnar sha^e, forming two ridgesjgrojectmg.slightly into the cavity of the scala (Fig. 252). The cells of the inner ridge, much the lal-ger of the two, give rise to the mem- brana tectoria, either a^ a cuticular s.e;£xeliDn oi"_ by the_arti- ficial adhesion of long hair-like processes whichj^roject from their free surfaces (Ayers). The cells of the outer rj_dge are arranged in six longitudinal rows (Fig. 252, 1-6) ; those of the innermost row (i) develop hairs upon their free sur- faces and form the inner hair cells, those of the next two rows (2 and 3) gradnallv 1)ecome transformed on their adjacent surfaces into chitinqus substance and form the rods of Corti, while the three outer row s (4 to 6) develop into the outer hair cells. It is hi connection with the hair cells that the periplieral prolongations of the cells of the cochlear ganglion terminate, and since these hair cells are arranged in rows extendijig the entire length of the cochlear duct, the ganglion also is drawn oj,itJnto„A-Sp.iral following; tl^ of the cochlea, and hence is sometimes termed the spiral ganglion. While the various changes described above have been raking place in the otocyst, the mesoderm surrounding it has also been undergoing development. At first this tissue is quite uniform m,character, but later the_cells immediately surrounding the otocyst condense to give ,rise to a^fiferous layer (Fig. 253, ep) whilejiiore, peripherally they become, more loosely arranged jind^form_ a somewhat gelatinous iayer^^and still more peripherally a second fibrous layer469 THE INTERNAL EAR. is differentiated and the remainder of the tissue assumes a character which indicates an approaching conversion into cartTlage. The further history of these various layers is as follows: The inner fibrous layer gives rise to the con- nective-tissue wall which supports the ectodermal lining of the various Fig. 253. — Transverse Section THROUcai A Semicircular Duct OF A Rabbit Embryo of Twenty- four Days. c, Periotic cartilage; e[>, fibrous mem- brane beneath the epithelium of the canal; p, perichondrium; s, spongy tissue.— {Von Kdlliker.) portions of the otocyst; the gelatinous layer un- dergoes a degeneration to form a lymph-like fluid known as the 2?nl;^^i.n]2l3» the space occupied by the fluid being the perilym- phatic _s2ace^; the outer fibrous layer becomes peri- chondrium and later peri- osteum; and the procarti- lage undergoes chondrifi- cation and later ossifies to ionn the petrous jportion of the temporal bone. The gelati^),9us layer completely surrounds most of . the otocyst structures^, which thus come to lie free in the peri- lymphatic space, but in the cochlear region the conditions are somewhat different. In this region the gelatinous layer is interrupted along two lines, an outer broad one \vhere the connective-tissue wall of the cochlear duct is (lirectly continuous with the perichondrium layer, and an - inner narrow one, along which a similar fusioi-f^^es place vvith the perichondrium of a shelf-like process of the car- tilage, which later ossifies to form the lamina spiralis. Consequently throughout the cochlear region the perilym- phatic space is divided into two compartments which com- municate at the apex of the cochlea, while below one, known470 THE INTERNAL EAR. as the scahivesHbu communicates with the space surround- in^the sacciile and utricle, and the other",'the scala tympani, a_buts upon a membrane which separates it from the" cavity of the middle ear and represents a portion of the„outer wall of the petrous bone where chondrification jind_ ossification have failed to occur. This membrane closes what appears in the dried skull to be an opening in the inner wall of the middle ear, known as the fenestra cochlece (rotunda) ; an- other similar opening, also closed by membrane in the fresh Fig. 254.—Diagrammatic Transverse Section through a Coil of THE Cochlea, showing the Relation of the Scal^. c, Organ of Corti; co, ganglion cochleare; Is, lamina spiralis; SM, cochlear duct; ST, scala tympani; SV, scala vestibuli.— {From Gerlach.) skull, occurs in the bony wall opposite the utricular portion of the otocyst and is known as the fenestra vestibuli (ovalis). The Development of the Middle Ear.—The middle ear develops from the upper part of the pharyngeal groove which represents ' the endodermal portion of the first branchial cleft. This becomes [)r()l()nged dorsally an^ atTHE MIDDLE EAR. its dorsal end enlarges to formJLli£_tYmpanic cavity_^ while the narrower portion intervening between this and the pharyngeal cavity represents the tuba auditiva (Eustachian tubej.^ To correctly understand the development of the tympanic cavity it is necessary to recall the structures which form its boundaries. Anteriorly to the upper end of the first branch- ial pouch there is the upper end of the first arch, and behind it the corresponding part of the second arch, the two fusing together dorsal to the tympanic cavity and forming its roof. Internally the cavity is bounded by the outer wall of the cartilaginous investment of the otocyst, while externally it is separatecFfrom the upper part of the ectodermal groove of t"he firsFbranchial cleft by the thin membrane which fornis. the floor of the groove. It has been seen in an earlier chapter that the axial meso- derm of each branchial arch gives rise to skeletal structures and muscles. The axial cartilage of the ventral portion of the first arch is what is known as Meckel's cartilage, but in that portion of the arch which forms the roof and anterior wall of the tympanic cavity, the cartilage becomes con- stricted to form two masses which later ossify to form the malleus and incus (Fig. 250, m and i), while the muscular tissue of this dorsal portion of the arch gives rise to the tensor tyntpanL Similarly, in the case of the second arch there is to be found, dorsal to the extremity of the cartilage which_forms the styloid 2rix:ess of the adult, a narrow plate of cartilage which_forms an investment fqr^the facia]_ nerve (Fig. 250, Vil), and dorsal to this a ring of cartilage (st) which surrounds a small stapedial artery and represents the stapes. ^ It has been found that in the rabbit the mass of cells from which the stapes is formed is at its first appearance quite independent of the second branchial arch (Fuchs), and it4/2 THE MIDDLE EAR. has been held to be a derivative of the mesenchyme from which the periotic capsule is formed. In later stages, how- ever, it becomes connected with the cartilage of the second branchial arch, as shown in Fig. 255, and it is a question whether this connection, which is transitory, does not really indicate the phylogenetic origin of the ossicle from the sec- ond arch cartilage, its appearance as an independent struc- FiG. 255.—Semi-diagrammatic View of the Auditory Ossicles of an Embryo of Six Weeks. i. Incus; /, jugular vein; m, malleus; nic, Meckel's cartilage; oc, cap- sule of otocyst; R, cartilage of the second branchial arch; st, stapes; VII, facial nerve.— (Siebenniann.) ture being a secondary ontogenetic phenomenon. However that may be, the stapedial artery disappears in later stages and the_ stapedius nmsclt,. dti'ived from the musculature, of the second branchial arch and therefore supplied by._the facial nerve, becomes attached to the ossicle. The three ossicles at first lie embedded in the mesenchyme forming the roof of the ^primitive tympanic cavity, as does also the chorda tympani, a branch of the seventh nerve, as473 THE MIDDLE EAR. it passes intothejubsta^^ on the way to its destination. The m£!£i^ ""^ ^^'^^^ ^^'^'^ structures are Embedded is rather voluminous (Fig. 257), and after the end of the seventh month becomes converted into a peculiar spongy tissue, ^ .......^..-..y.^^^^.^y^..^^ which, toward the end of fetal life, gradually degenerates, the - •. tympanic cavity at the same ^ ] time expanding and wrapping ^ itself around the ossicles and the muscles attached to them V .^^ (Fig. 256). The bones and / (jjjj^^ \ j their muscles, consequently, m ; j^^ while appearing in the ;idult to \ ^ traverse the tympanic cavity, - ^ are really completely enclosed within a layer of epithelium ^ ,.- continuous with that lining the viPl''^ wall of the cavity, while the \ handle of the malleus and the ' \ ^ chorda tympani lie between the ■••.!b»w««ssk»«» epithelium of the outer wail Fig. 256.—Diagrams Illus- L .■■.■„, . - . - TRATING THE MODE OF Kx- of the cavity and the fibrous tension of the Tympanic "lgg£cjerm_wl.ich forms tlie CA^Si-^" ™' tympanic membrane. U, Malleus; w, spongy mesen- The extension of the tvm- f^y'^^:. f.- inner surface of the penotic capsule; T, tym- panic cavity does not, however, panic cavity. The broken • ,i -i. 1 4. r line represents the epithelial cease witn its replacement or lining of the tympanic cavity. the degenerated spongy mesen- chyme, but toward the end of fetal life it begins to invade the substance of the temporal bone by a process similar to that which produces the ethmoidal cells and the other osse- ous sinuses in connection with the nasal cavities (see p. 186). This process continues for some years after birth 41474 THE MIDDLE EAR. and results in the f. >niiali()n in the mastoid porti(jn of the -t-^^^ so-called mastoid cells, which communicate with ^^tZ^'^'^P^^^^c cavity and ha\ c an cpitheUal hning continuous with that of the cavity. The lower__poilion .of.Jhe diverticulum from the first pharyngeal groove which gives rise to the tympanic cavity becomes converted into the Eustachian tube. During devel- opment the lumen of the tube disappears for a time, prob- ably owing to a proliferation of its lining epithelium, but it is re-established before birth. In the account of the development of the ear-bones given above it is held that the malleus and incus are derivatives of the first branchial (mandibular) arch and the stapes probably of the second. This view represents the general consensus of recent workers on the difficult question of the origin of these bones, but it should be mentioned that nearly all possible modes of origin have been at one time or other suggested. The mal- leus has very generally been accepted as coming from the first arch, and the same is true of the incus, although some earlier authors have assigned it to the second arch. But with regard to the stapes the opinions have been very varied. It has been held to be derived from the first arch, from the second arch, from neither one nor the other, but from the cartilaginous in- vestment of the otocyst, or, finally, it has been held to have a compound origin, its arch being a product of the second arch while its basal plate was a part of the otocyst investment. The Development of the Tympanic Membrane and of the Outer Ear.—Just as the tympanic cavity is formed from the endodermal groove of the first branchial cleft, so the outer ear owes its origin to the ectodermal groove of_th^ same cTeft and to the neighboring arches. The dorsal and most ventral portions of the groove flatten out and disappear, but the median portion deepens to form, at about the end of the second month, a funnel-shaped cavity which corre- sponds to the outer portion of the external auditory meatus. From the inner end of this a solid ingrowth of ectoderm takes place, and this, enlarging at its inner end to form aTHE EXTERNAL EAR. 475 disk-like mass, comes into relation with the gelatinous meso- derm which surrounds the malleus and chorda tympani. At about the seventh month a split occurs in the disk-like mass (Fig. 257), separating it into an outer and an inner layer, the latter of which- becomes the outer epithelium of the tympanic membrane. Later, the split extends outward Fig. 257.—Horizontal Section Passing through the Dorsal Wall OF the External Auditory Meatus in an Embryo of 4.5 cm. c, Cochlea; de, endolymphatic duct; i, incus; Is, transverse sinus; m, malleus; me, meatus auditorius externus; me', cavity of the meatus; s, sacculus; sc, lateral semicircular canal; sc', posterior semi- circular canal; st, stapes; t, tympanic cavity; u, utriculus; 7, facial nerve.— (Siebenmann.) in the substance of the ectodermal ingrowth and eventually unites with the funnel-shaped cavity to complete the exter- nal meatus.THE EXTERNAL EAR. 476 Tlie tymjDanic membrane is formed in considerable part from the substance of the first branchial arch, the area in which it occurs not being primarily part of the wall of the tympanic cavity, but being brought into it secondarily by the expansion of the cavity. The membrane itself is mesoder- FiG. 258.—Stages in the Development of the Auricle. A Embryo of 11 mm.; B, of 13.6 mm.; C, of 15 mm.; D, at the begin- ing of the third month; E, fetus of 8.5 cm.; F, fetus at term.—(H/j.) mal in origin and is lined on its outer surface by an ecto- dermal and on the inner by an endodermal epithelium. The auricle {pinna) owes its origin to the portions of the first and second archej which bound the entrance of the ^^Jtenid meai^^ the posterior edge of the first arch there appear about the end of the fourth week two trans-477 THE EYE. verse furrows which mark off three tubercles (Fig. 258, A, 1-3) and on the anterior edge of the second arch a corre- sponding number of tubercles (4-6) is formed, while, in addition, a longitudinal furrow, running down the middle of the arch, marks of¥ a ridge (c) lying posterior to the tubercles. From these six tubercles and the ridge are devel- oped the various parts of the auricle, as may be seen from Fig. 258. The most ventral tubercle of the first arch (i) gives rise to the tragus, and the middle one (5) of the sec- ond arch furnishes the antitragiis. The middle and dorsal tubercles of the first arch (2 and 3) unite with the ridge (c) to produce the helix, while from the dorsal tubercle of the second arch (4) is produced the anthelix and from the ventral one (6) the lobule. It is noteworthy that at about the third month of development the upper and posterior portion of the helix is bent forward so as to conceal the anthelix; it is at just about a corresponding stage that the pointed form of the ear seen in the lower mammals makes its appearance, and it is evident that, were it not for the forward bending, the human ear would also be assuming •at this stage a more or less pointed form. Indeed, there is usually to be found upon the incurved edge of the helix, some distance below the upper border of the auricle, a more or less distinct tubercle, known as Danmn's tubercle, which seems to represent the point of the typical mammalian ear, and is, accordingly, the morphological apex of the pinna. There seems to be little room for doubt that the otocyst belongs primarily to the system of lateral line sense-organs, but a discussion of this interesting question would necessitate a consideration of details concerning the development of the lower vertebrates which would be foreign to the general plan of this book. It may be recalled, however, that the analysis of the components of the cranial nerves described on page 447 refers the auditory nerve to the lateral line system. The Development of the Eye.—The first indications ofTHE EYE. 478 the development of tlie eye are to be found in a pair of hollow outgrowths from the side of the first primary brain vesicle, at a level which corresponds to the junction of the Fig. 259.—Early Stages in the Development of the Lens in a Rabbit Embryo. The nucleated layer to the left is the ectoderm and the thicker lens epi- theUum, below which is the outer wall of the optic evagmation; above and below between the two is mesenchyme.—(AaO/.; dorsal and ventral zones. Each evagination is directed at first upward and backward, and, enlarging at its extremity.479 THE EYE. it soon shows a differentiation into a terminal bulb and a stalk connecting the bulb with the brain (Fig. 225). At an early stage the bulb comes into apposition with the ecto- derm of the side of the head, and this, over the area of con-^ tact, becomes thickened and then depressed to form the beginning of the future lens (Fig. 259). As the result of the depression of the lens ectoderm, the outer wall of the optic bulb becomes pushed inward toward the inner wall, and this invagination continuing until the Fig. 260.—Reconstruction qf the Brain of an Embryo of Four Weeks, showing the Chorioid Fissure.—(His.) two walls come into contact, the bulb is transformed into a double-walled cup, the optic cup, in the mouth of which lies the lens (Fig. 261). The cup is not perfect, however, since the invagination affects not only the optic bulb, but also extends medially on the posterior surface of the stalk, forming upon this a longitudinal groove and producing a defect of the ventral wall of the cup, known as the chorioidal fissure (Fig, 260). The groove and fissure become occu- pied l)y mesodermal tissue, and in this, at about the fifthTHE EYE. 48o week, a blood-vessel develops which traverses the cavity of the cup to reach the lens and is known as the arteria hyaloidea. In the meantime further changes have been taking place in the lens. The ectodermal depression which represents it gradually deepens to form a cup, the lips of which ap- proximate and finally meet, so that the cup is converted into a vesicle which finally separates completely from the ectoderm (Fig. 261), much in the same way as the otocyst does. As the lens vesicle is constricted off, the surround- ing mesodermal tissue grows in to form a layer between it and the overlying ectoderm, and a split appearing in the layer divides it into an outer thicker portion, which repre- sents the cornea, and an inner thinner portion, which covers the outer surface of the lens and becomes highly vascular. The cavity between these two portions represents the anterior chamber of the eye. The cavity of the optic cup has also become filled by a peculiar tissue which represents the vit- reous humor, while the mesodermal tissue surrounding the cup condenses to form a strong investment for it, which is externally continuous with the cornea, and at about the sixth week shows a differentiation into an inner vascular layer, the chorioid coat, and an outer denser one, which becomes the sclerotic coat. The various processes resulting in the formation of the eye, which have thus been rapidly sketched, may now be considered in greater detail. The Development of the Lens.—When the lens vesicle is complete, it forms a more or less spherical sac lying beneath the superficial ectoderm and containing in its cavity a few cells, either scattered or in groups (Fig. 261). These cells, which have wandered into the cavity of the vesicle from its walls, take no part in the further development of the lens, but early undergo complete degeneration, and the first change which is concerned with the actual formation of the lens isTHE LENS. 481 an increase in the height of the cells forming its niner wall and a thinning out of its outer wall (Fig. 262, A). These changes continuing, the outer half of the vesicle becomes converted into a single layer of somewhat flat cells which persist in the adult condition to form the anterior epithehutn of the lens, while the cells of the posterior wall form a marked projection into the cavity of the vesicle and event- Fig. 261.—Horizontal Section through the Eye of an Embryo Pig OF 7 MM. Br, Diencephalon; Ec, ectoderm; /, lens; P, pigment, and R, retinal layers of the retina. ually completely obliterate it, coming into contact with the inner surface of the anterior epithelium (Fig. 262, B). These posterior elongated cells form, then, the principal 42THE LENS. 482 mass of the lens, and constitute what are known as the lens fhers. At first those situated at the center of the posterior wall are the longest, the more peripheral ones gradually diminishing in length until at the equator of the lens they become continuous with and pass into the anterior epithe- lium. As the lens increases in size, however, the most cen- trally situated cells fail to elongate" as rapidly as the more peripheral ones and are pushed in toward the center of the lens, the more peripheral fibers meeting below them along a line passing across the inner surface of the lens. The dis- parity of growth continuing, a similar sutural line appears on the outer surface beneath the anterior epithelium, and the fibers become arranged in concentric layers around a central core composed of the shorter fibers. In the human eye the line of suture of the peripheral fibers becomes bent so as to consist of two limbs which meet at an angle, and from the angle a new sutural line develops during embryonic life, ' so that the suture assumes the form of a three-rayed star. In later life the stars become more complicated, being either six-rayed or more usually nine-rayed in the adult condition (Fig. 263). As early as the second month of development the lens vesicle becomes completely invested by the mesodermal tissue in which blood-vessels are developed in considerable num- bers, whence the investment is termed the tunica_vasculosa lentis (Fig. 271, tv). The arteries of the tunic are in con- nection principally with the hyaloid artery of the vitreous humor (Fig. 269), and consist of numerous fine branches which envelop the lens and terminate in loops almost at the center of its outer surface. This tunic undergoes degenera- tion after the seventh month of development, by which time the lens has completed its period of most active growth, and, as a rule, completely disappears before birth. Occasionally, however, it may persist to a greater or less extent, the per-483 THE LENS. ?5. .•IW.L.i.wii • \ V ^^t •.•.. • •*,V'-V;5 B Fig. 262.—Sections through the Lens {A) of Human Embryo of Thirty to Thirty-one Days and {B) of Pig Embryo of 36 mm.— iRabl.)484 THE LENS. sistence of the portion covering the outer surface of the lens, known as the ntembrana pupillaris^ causing the malformation known as congenital atresia of the pupil. In additiuii to the vascular tunic, the lens is surrounded Fig. 263.—Posterior (Inner) Surface of the Lens from an Adult SHOWING THE SuTURAL LiNES.— (Rabl.) by a non-cellular membrane termed the capsule. The origin of this structure is still in doubt, some observers maintaining that it is a product of the investing mesoderm, while others hold it to be a product of the lens epithelium. It is interesting from the standpoint of developmental me- chanics to note that W. H, Lewis and Spemann have shownTHE OPTIC CUP. 485 that in the Amphibia contact of the optic vesicle with the ectoderm is necessary for the formation of the lens, and, furthermore, if the vesicle be transplanted to other regions of the body of a larva, a lens will be developed from the ectoderm with which it is then in contact, even in the abdominal region The Development of the Optic Cup.—When the invagina- tion of the outer wall of the optic bulb is completed, the margins of the resulting cup are opposite the sides of the lens vesicle (Fig. 261), but with the enlargement of the lens and cup the margins of the latter gradually come to lie in front of—that is to say, upon the outer surface of—the lens, forming the boundary of the opening known as the pupil. The lens, consequently, is brought to lie within the mouth of the optic cup, and that portion of the latter which covers the lens takes part in the formation of the iris and the adja- cent ciliary body, while its posterior portion gives rise to the retina. The chorioidal fissure normally disappears during the sixth or seventh week of development by a fusion of its lips, and not until this is accomplished does the term cup truly describe the form assumed by the optic bulb after the invagination of its outer wall. In certain cases the lips of the fissure fail to unite perfectly, producing the defect of the eye known as coloboma; this may vary in its extent, some- times affecting both the iris and the retina and forming- what is termed cololjoma iridis, and at others being confined to the retinal portion of the cup, in which case it is termed coloboma chorioidese. Up to a certain stage the differentiation of the two layers which form the optic cup proceeds along similar lines, in both the ciliary and retinal regions. The layer which rep- resents the original internal portion of the bulb does not thicken as the cup increases in size, and becomes also the seat of a deposition of dark pigment, whence it may be termed the pigment layer of the cup; while the other layer—THE IRIS AND CILIARY BODY. 486 that formed by the invagination of the outer portion of the bulb, and which may be termed the retinal layer—remains much thicker (Fig. 261) and in its proximal portions even increases in thickness. Later, however, the development of the ciliary and retinal portions of the retinal layers differs, and it will be convenient to consider first the history of the ciliary portion. The Development of the Iris and Ciliary Body.—The first change noticeable in the ciliary portion of the retinal layer is its thinning out, a process which continues until the layer consists, like the pigment layer, of but a single layer of cells (Fig. 264), the transition of which to the thicker retinal portion of the layer is somewhat abrupt and corresponds to what is termed the qra serrata in adult anatomy. In em- bryos of 10.2 cm. the retinal layer throughout its entire extent is readily distinguishable from the pigment layer by the absence in it of all pigmentation, but in older forms this distinction gradually diminishes in the iris region, the retinal layer there acquiring pigment and forming the uvea. When the anterior chamber of the eye is formed by the splitting of the mesoderm which has grown in between the superficial ectoderm and the outer surface of the lens, the peripheral portions of its posterior (inner) wall are in rela- tion with the ciliary portion of the optic cup and give jjsg to thejtrpmaoi the ciliary body_and^ijhejris_.( Fig. 264), this latter being continuous with the tunica vasculosa lentis so long as that structure persists (Fig. 271). In embryos of about 14.5 cm. the ciliary portion of the cup becomes thrown into radiating folds (Fig. 264), as if by a too rapid growth, and into the folds lamellae of mesoderm project from the stroma. These folds occur not only throughout the region of the ciliary body, but also extend into the iris region, where, however, they are but temporary structures, disappearing entirely by the end of the fifth months The487 THE IRIS AND CILIARY BODY. folds in the region of the corpus ciHare persist and produce the ciliary processes of the adult eye. Embedded in the substance of the iris stroma in the adult are non-striped muscle-fibers, which constitute the sphtjtclejr, and dilatator iridis. It has long been supposed that these fibers'^vere differentiated from the stroma of the iris, but recent observations have shown that they arise from the cells Fig. 264.—Radial Section through the Iris of an Embryo of 19 CM. AE, Pigment layer; CC, ciliary folds; IE, retinal layer; I.Str, iris stroma; Ptn, pupillary membrane; Rs, marginal sinus; Sph, sphinc- ter iridis.— (Szili.) of the pigment layer of the optic cup, the sphincter appear- ing near the pupillary border (Fig. 264, Sph) while the dila- tator is more peripheral. The Development of the Retina.—Throughout the retinal region of the cup the pigment layer, undergoing the same changes as in the ciliary region, forms the pigment layer488 THE RETINA. of the retina (Fig*. 265, p). The retinal layer increases in thickness and early becomes differentiated into two strata (Fig. 261), a tiiicker one lying next the j)igment layer and containing numerous nuclei, and a thinner one containing no nuclei.. The thinner layer, from its position and structure, suggests an homology with the mar^ginal velum of the cen- tral nervous system, and probably becomes converted into 00 qO o o o Q Fig. 265—Portion of a Transverse Section of the Retina of a New-born Rabbit. ch, Chorioid coat; g, ganglion-cell layer; r, outer layer of nuclei; p, pig- ment layer.—(Fa/c/fJ.) the nerve-fiber layer of the adult retina, the axis-cylinder processes of the ganglion cells passing into it on their way to the optic nerve. The thicker layei;^ similarly suggests a comparison with the imiitle layer of the" cord and brain, and in embryos of 38 mm. it becomes differentiated into tm^-. secondary layers (Fig. 265), that nearest the pigment layer489 THE RETINA. (r) consisting- of smaller and more deeply staining nuclei, probably representing the rod and cone and bipojar^^ of the adult retina, while the inner layer, that nearest the mar- ginal velum, has larger nuclei and is presumably composed of the ganglion cells. Little is as yet known concerning the further differentia- tion of the nervous elements of the human retina, but the history of some of them has been traced in the cat, in which, as in other mammals, the histogenetic processes take place at a relatively later period than in man. Of the histogenesis of the inner layer the information is rather scant, but it may be stated that the ganglion cells are the earliest of all the elements of the retina to become recognizable. The rod and cone cells, when first distinguishable, are unipolar cells (Fig. 266, a and c), their single processes extending out- ward froni_the^ell2bodies to the external limiting membrane which bounds the outer surface of the retinal layer. Even at an early stage the cone cells (a) are distingiushaWe J^^^^^ the rod cells (c) by their more decided reaction to silver salts, and at first both kinds of cells are scattered throughout the thickness of the layer from which they arise. Later, a fine process grows out from the inner end of„eadiXi&ll,.jyiiidi. thus assumes a bipolar form (Fig. 266, b and d), and, later stij], the cells gradually migrate toward the external Hniitin^ membrane, beneath which they form a definite layer-iii the .adiilt. In the meantime there appears. opposite the outer end of each cell a rounded eminence projecting from the outer surface of the external limiting membrane into the pigment layer. Thjeeipinences over the cone cells are larger than those over the rod cells, and later, as both increase in length, they become recognizable by their shape as the rods and cones. The bipolar cells are not easily distinguishable in the early stages of their differentiation from the other cells490 THE RETINA. with which they are mingled, hut it is heheved that they are represented by cells which are bipolar when the rod and cone cells are still in a unipolar condition (Fig. 266, e). If this identification be correct, then it is noteworthy that at first their outer processes extend as far as the external limiting membrane and must later shorten or fail to elon- gate until their outer ends lie in what is termed the outer Fig. 266.—Diagram showing the Development of the Retinal a, Cone cell in the unipolar, and b, in the bipolar stage; c, rod cells in the unipolar, and d, in the bipolar stage; e, bipolar cells; f and t, amacrine cells; g, horizontal cells; h, ganglion cells; k,^ Miiller s fiber; I, external limiting membrane—{Kallius, after Cajal.) granular layer of the retina, where they stand in relation to the inner ends of the rod and cone cell processes. Of the development of the amacrine (/, i) and horizontal cells {g) of the retina little is known. From their position in new-born kittens it seems probable that the former are491 THE OPTIC NERVE. derived from cells of the same layer as the ganglion cells, while the horizontal cells may belong to the outer layer. In addition to the various nerve-elements mentioned above, the retina also contains neuroglial elements known as Muller's fibers (Fig. 266, k), which traverse the entire thickness of the retina. The development of these cells has not yet been thoroughly traced, but they resemble closely the ependymal cells observable in early stages of the spinal cord. The Development of the Optic Newe.—The observations on the development of the retina have shown very clearly that the great majority of the fibers of the optic nerve are axis-cylinders of the ganglion cells of the retina and grow from these cells along the optic stalk toward the brain. Their embryonic history has been traced most thoroughly in rat embryos (Robinson), and what follows is based upon what has been observed in that animal. The optic stalk, being an outgrowth from the brain, is at first a hollow structure, its cavity communicating with that of the third ventricle at one end and with that of the optic bulb at the other. When the chorioid fissure is developed, it extends, as has already been described, for some distance along the posterior surface of the stalk and has lying in it a portion of the hyaloid artery. Later, when the lips of the fissure fuse, the artery becomes enclosed within the stalk to form the artcria centralis retince of the adult (Fig. 269). Ry the, formation of the fissure the original cavity of the distal portion of the stalk becomes obliterated, and at the same time the ventral and posterior walls of the stalk are brought into continuity with the retinal layer of the optic cup, and so opportunity is given for the passage of the axis- cylinders of the ganglion cells along those walls (Fig. 267). At an early stage a section of the proximal portion of the optic stalk (Fig. 268, A) shows the central cavity sur-THE OPTIC NERVE. 492 rounded by a number of nuclei representing- the mantle layer and surrounding these a non-nucleated layer, resembling the margmal velum and continuous distally with the similar layer of the retina. When the ganglion cells of the latter begm to send out their axis-cylinder processes, these pass into the retinal marginal velum and converge in this layer toward the bottom of the ciliary fis- sure, so reaching the ventral wall of the optic stalk, in the velum of which they may be distin- guished in rat embryos of 4 mm., and still more clearly in those of 9 mm. (Fig. 268, A). Later, as the fibers become more numerous, they gradually invade the lateral and finally the dorsal walls of the stalk, and, at the same time the mantle cells of the stalk become more scattered and assume the form of connec- tive-tissue (neuroglia) cells, while the original cavity of the stalk is gradually obliterated (Fig. 268, B). Finallyj,_the_stalk becomes a solid mass of nerve-fibers,^, among which the altered jiiantle cells are scattered. From what has been stated above it will be seen that the sensory cells of the eye belong to a somewhat different cate- gory from those of the other sense-organs. Embryologically they are a specialized portion of the mantle layer of the medul- lary canal, whereas in the other organs they are peripheral structures either representing or being associated with repre- sentatives of posterior root ganglion cells. Viewed from this standpoint, and taking into consideration the fact that the sensory portion of the retina is formed from the invaginated part of the optic bulb, some light is thrown upon the inverted Fig. 267. — Diagram MATic Longitudinal Section OF THE Optic Cup and Stalk passing through THE Chorioid Fissure. Ah, Hyaloid artery; L, lens ; On, fibers of the optic nerve; Os, optic stalk; PI, pigment layer, and R, retinal layer of the retina493 THE OPTIC NERVE. arrangement of the retinal elements, the rods and cones being diri^ted away from the source of light. The normal relations of the mantle layer and marginal velum are retained in the retina, and the latter serving as a conducting layer for the axis- cylinders of the mantle layer (ganglion) cells, the layer of nerve-fibers becomes interposed between the source of light and the sensory cells. Furthermore, it may be pointed out that if the differentiation of the retina be imagined to take place before the closure of the medullary canal,—a condition which is indicated in some of the lower vertebrates,—there Ftg. 268.—Transverse Sections through the Proximal Part of THE Optic Stalk of Rat Embryos of (^) 9 mm. and {B) ii mm. —(Robinson.) would be then no inversion of the elements, this peculiarity being due to the conversion of the medullary plate into a tube, and more especially to the fact that the retina develops from the outer wall of the optic cup. In certain reptiles in which an eye is developed in connection with the epiphysial out- growths of the diencephalon, the retinal portion of this pineal eye is formed from the inner layer of the bulb, and in this case there is no inversion of the elements. A justification of the exclusion of the optic nerve from the category which includes the other cranial nerves has now been presented. For if the retina be regarded as a portion of the central nervous system, it is clear that the nerve is not a nerve at all in the strict sense of that word, but is a tract, confined throughout its entire extent within the central nervous system and comparable to such groups of fibers as the direct cerebellar or fillet tracts of that system.THE VITREOUS HUMOR. 494 The Development of the Vitreous Humor.—\i has already been pointed out (p. 480) that a blood-vessel, the hyaloid artery, accompanied by some mesodermal tissue makes its way into the cavity of the optic cup through the chorioid fissure. On the closure of the fissure the artery becomes enclosed within the optic stalk and appears to penetrate the retina, upon the surface of which its branches ramify. In the embryo the artery does not, however, terminate in these branches as it does in the adult, but is continued on through Fig. 269.—Reconstruction of a Portion of the Eye of an Embryo OF 13.8 MM. ah, Hyaloid artery; ch, chorioid coat; lens; r, retina.— {His.) the cavity of the optic cup (Fig. 269) to reach the lens, around which it sends branches to form the tunica vasculosa lentis. According to some authors, the formation of the vitreous humor is closely associated with the development of this artery, the humor being merely a transudate from it, while others have maintained that it is a derivative of the meso- derm which accompanies the vessel, and is therefore to be regarded as a peculiar gelatinous form of connective tissue. More recently, however, renewed observations by several authors have resulted in the deposition ot the mesoderm from the chief role in the formation of the vitreous and the substitution in it of the retina. At an early stage ofTHE VITREOUS HUMOR. 495 development delicate protoplasmic processes may be seen projecting from the surface of the retinal layer into the cavity of tfie optlcTcii^^ these processes p^robablylarising froiiiThose cells which will later form the Muller's (neur9g- lia) fibres'^ the retina. As development proceeds they increase in lengthy forming a dense_ajKl very fineJibrillar reticulum traversing the space between the lens and the Fig. 270.—Transverse Section through the Ciliary Region of a Chick Embryo of Sixteen Days. ac, Anterior chamber of the eye; cj, conjunctiva; co, cornea; i, iris; I, lens; mc, ciliary muscle; rl, retinal layer of optic cup; sf, spaces of Fontana; si, suspensory ligament of the lens; v, vitreous humor. — (Angelucci.) retina and constituting the primary vitreous humor. The formation of the fibers is especiallv active in the riHai-37 por- tion of the retina and it is probable that it is from some of the fibers developing in this region that the suspensory ligg^ ment of the lens {zonula Zinnii) (Fig. 270. si) is formed spaces which occur between the fibers of the ligament enlaro--"496 THE VITREOUS TIUMOR. ing to produce a cavity traversed by scattered fibers and known as the canal of Petit. A participation of similar protoplasmic prolongations from the cells of the lens in the formation of the vitreous humor has been maintained (von Lenhossek) and as strenu- ously denied. But it is generally admitted that at the time when the hyaloid artery penetrates the vitreous to form the tunica vasculosa lentis it carries with it certain mesodermal elements, whose fate is at present uncertain. It has been held that they take part in the formation of the definitive vitreous, which, according to this view, is of mixed origin, being partly ectodermal and partly mesodermal (Van Pee), and, on the contrary, it has been maintained that they even- tually undergo complete degeneration, the vitreous being of purely ectodermal origin (von Kolliker). Tlie degeneration of the mesodermal elements which the latter view supposes is associated with the degeneration of the hyaloid artery. This begins in human embryos in the third month and is completed during the ninth month, the only trace after birth of the existence of the vessel being a more fluid consistency of the axis of the vitreous humor, this more fluid portion representing the space originally occupied by the artery and forming what is termed the Jiya^ hid CM^-i^UML^t^i-'^Q'!'''^'^ - The Development of the Outer Coat of the Eye, of the Cornea, and of the Anterior Chamber.—Soon after the formation of the optic bulb a condensation of the meso- derm cells around it occurs, forming a capsule. Over the medial portions of the optic cup the further differentiation of this capsule is comparatively simple, resulting in the for- mation of two layers, an inner vascular and an outer denser and fibrous, the former becoming the chorioid coat of the adult eye and the latter the sclera. More laterally, however, the processes are more compli-THE CORNEA. 49-7 cated. After the lens has separated from the surface ecto- derm a thin layer of mesoderm grows in between the two structures and later gives place to a layer of homogeneous substance in which a few cells, more numerous laterally than at the center, are embedded. Still later cells from the adja- cent mesenchyme grow into the layer, which increases con- siderably in thickness, and blood-vessels also grow into that portion of it which is in contact with the outer surface of the ac Fig. 27T.—Transverse Section through the Ciliary Region of a Pig Embryo of 23 mm. ac, Anterior chamber of the eye; co, cornea; ec, ectoderm; lens; mc, ciHary muscle; p, pigment layer of the optic cup; r, retinal layer; tv, tunica vasculosa lentis.— (Angelucci.) lens. At this stage the interval between the surface ecto- derm and the lens is occupied by a solid mass of mesodermal tissue (Fig. 271, co and tv), but as development proceeds, small spaces filled with fluid'begin to appear toward the inner portion of the mass (ac), and these, increasing in number and size, eventually fuse together to form a single 4349^ THE ANTERIOR CHAMBER OF THE EYE. cavity which divides the mass into an inner and an outer portion. The cavity is the anterior chamber of the eye, and it has served to separate the cornea (co) from the tunica vasculosa lentis (tv), and, extending laterally in all direc- tions, it also. separates from the cornea the mesfiDphyme which rests upon the marginal portion of the optic cup and constitutes the stroma_ofjhe iris.__Cells arrange themselves on the corneal surface of the cavity to form a continuous endothelial layer, and the mesenchyme which forms the peripheral boundary of the cavity assumes a fibrous charac- ter and forms the limmentwn pectinatum iridis, among the fibers of which cavities, known as the spaces of Fontana (Fig. 270, sf), appear. Beyond the margins of the cavity the corneal tissue is directly continuous with the sclerotic, beneath the margin of which is a distinctly thickened por- tion of mesenchyme resting upon the ciliary processes and forming the stroma of the ciliary body, as well as giving rise to the muscle tissue which constitutes the ciliary muscle (Figs. 270 and 271, mc). The ectoderm which covers the outer surface of the eye does not proceed beyond the stage when it consists of sev- eral layers of cells, and never develops a stratum corneum. In the corneal region it rests directly upon the corneal tis- sue, which is thickened shg;htly upoiT_ its outer surface to form the anterior elastic laminu; more peripherally, how- ever. a quantity of loose mesodermal tissue lies between it and the outer surface of the sclerotic, and, together with the ectoderm, forms the coiijuncjiva [Fig. 265, cj). The Development of the Accessory Apparatus of the Eye. —The eyelids make their appearance at an early stage as two folds of skin, one a short distance above and the other below the cornea. The center of the folds is at first occu- pied by indifYerent mesodermal tissue, which later becomes modified to form the connective tissue of the lids and theTHE EYELIDS. 499 tarsal cartilage, the muscle • tissue probably secondarily growing into the lids as a result of the spreading of the platysma over the face, the orbicularis oculi apparently being a derivative of that sheet of muscle tissue. At about the beginning of the third month the lids have become sufficiently large to meet one another, whereupon the thickened epithelium which has formed upon their edges unites and the lids fuse together, in which condition they Fig. 272.—Sex;tion through the Margins of the Fused Eyelids in AN Embryo of Six Months. h, Eyelash; II, lower lid; m, tarsal gland; mu, muscle bundle- ul upper \\<l.— {Sch%veigger-Seidl.) remain until shortly before birth. During the stage of fusion the eyelashes (Fig. 272, /i) develop at the edges of the lids, having the same developmental history as ordinary hairs, and from the fused epithelium of each lid there grow upward or downward, as the case may be, into the meso-500 THE LACHRYMAL GLAND. dermic tissue, solid rods of ectoderm, certain of which early give off numerous short lateral processes and become recog- nizable as the tarsal (Meibomian) glands (m), while others retain the simple cylindrical form and represent the glands of Moll. When the eyelids separate, these solid ingrowths become hollow by -a breaking down of their central cells, just as in the sebaceous and sudoriparous glands of the skin, the tarsal glands being really modifications of the former glands, while the glands of Moll are probably to be regarded as specialized sudoriparous glands. A third fold of skin, in addition to the two which pro- duce the eyelids, is also developed in connection with the eye, forming the pUca semihmaris. This is a rudimentary third eyelid, representing the nictitating membrane which is fairly well developed in many of the lower mammals and especially well in birds. The lachrymal gland is developed at about the third month as a number of 1)ranching outgrowtlis of the_ecto- derm into the adjacent mesoderm along the outer part of the line where the epithelium of the conjunctiva becomes continuous with that covering the injiex.surface. of the upper eyelid. As in the other epidermal glands, the outgrowths and their branches are at first solid, later becoming hollow * by; the degeneration of their axial cells. The naso-lacliryiiutl duct is developed in connection with the groove which, at an early stage in the development (Fig. 52), extends from the inner corner of the eye to the olfactory pit and is bounded posteriorly by the maxillary process of the first visceral arch. The epithelium lying in the floor of this groove thickens toward the beginning of the sixth week to form a solid cord, which sinks into the subjacent mesoderm, though retaining connection with the ectoderm of the olfactory pit at its lower end. From its upper end two outgrowths arise which become connectedLITERATURE. 501 with the ectoderm of the edges of the upper and lower Hds, respectively, and represent the lachrymal ducts, and, finally, the solid cord and its outgrowths acquire a lumen. The inferior duct connects with the border of the eyelid some distance lateral to the inner angle of the eye, and between its opening and the angle a number of tarsal glands develop. The superior duct, on the other hand, opens at first close to the inner angle and later moves laterally until its opening is opposite that of the inferior duct. During this change the portion of the lower lid between the opening of the inferior duct and the angle is drawn somewdiat up- wards, and, with its glands, forms a small reddish nodule, resting upon the plica semilunaris and known as the carmi- ciila lacrimalis. _ LITERATURE. G. Alexander : " Ueber Entwicklung und Bau des Pars inferior Laby- rinthi der hoheren Siiiigethiere," Denkschr. kais. zvissench. Acad. Wien, Math.-Natnrw. Classe, lxx, 1901. A. Angelucci : " Ueber Entwickelung und Bau des vorderen Uveal- tractus der Vertebraten," Archiv fur mikrosk. Anat., xix, 1881. F. Ask : " Ueber die Entwickelung der Caruncula lacrimalis beim Men- scben, nebst Bemerkungen iiber die Entwickelung der Tranen- rohrchen und der Meibom'schen Driisen," Anatoni. Anzeiger, xxx, 1907. B. Baginsky: "Zur Entwickelung der Gehorschneckc," Archiv fur mikrosk. Anat., xxviii, 1886. I. Broman : " Die Entwickelungsgeschichte der Gehorknochelchen beim Menschen," Anat. Heffe, xi, 1898. ;:S. Ramon y Cajal: " Nouvelles contributions a I'etude histologique de la retine,'7ottm. de I'Anat. et de la Physiol, xxxii, 1896. J. Disse: "Die erste Entwickelung der Riechnerven," Anat. Hefte, IX, 1897. B. Fleischer: "Die Entwickelung der Tranenrohrchen bei den Sauge- tiere," Archiv fur Ophthalmol, Lxii, 1906. H. FucHS: "Bemerkungen iiber die Herkunft und Entwickelung der Gehorknochelchen bei Kaninchen-Embryonen (nebst Bemerkungen uber die Entwickelung des Knorpelskeletes der beiden ersten Visceralbogen)," Archiv fiir Anat. und Phys., Anat. Abth., Subble- ment, 1905.LITERATURE. 502 J. Graberg: "Beitriige zur Genese des Geschmacksorgans der Men- schen," Morphol. Arbeiten, vu, 1898. J. A. Hammar: "Zur allgemeinen Morphologic der Schlundspalten des Menschen. Zur Entvvickclungsgeschichte des Mittelohrraumes, des ausseren Gehorganges und des Paukenfelles beim Menschen," Anat. Anzeiger, xx, 1901. Heerfordt : " Studien itber den Muse, dilatator pupillse sammt Angabe von gemeinschaftlicher Kennzeichen einiger Falle epithelialer Mus- culatur," Anat. Hefte, xiv. J. Hegetschweiler: "Die embryologische Entwickelung des Steig- bugels," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol, Anat. Abth., 1898. F. Hochstetter: "Ueber die Bildung der primitiven Choanen beim Menschen," Verhandl. Anat. Gesellsch., vi, 1892. W. His, Jr. : " Die Entwickelungsgeschichte des Acustico-Facialisge- bietes beim Menschen," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Abth., Supplement, 1897. A. VON Kolliker : " Die Entwicklung und Bedeutung des Glaskorpers," Zeitschr. fiir tmsscnsch. Zoolog., Lxxvi, 1904. V. VOK MiHALKOvicz: " Nasenhohle und Jacobsonsches Organ. Eine morphologische Studie," Anat. Hefte, xi, 1898. P. VAN Pee: "Recherches sur I'origine du corps vitre," Archives de Biol., XIX, 1902. C. Rabl : " Ueber den Bau und Entwickelung der Linse," Zeitschrift fiir wissensch. Zoologie, lxii and lxv, 1898; lxvii, 1899. A. Robinson : " On the Formation and Structure of the Optic Nerve and Its Relation to the' Optic Stalk," Journal of Anat. and Physiol., XXX, 1896. G. L. Streeter : " On the Development of the Membranous Labyrinth and the Acoustic and Facial Nerves in the Human Embryo," Amer. Jo urn. of Anat., vi, 1907. A. SziLi: "Zur Anatomic und Entwickelungsgeschichte der hinteren Irisschichten, mit besonderer Beritcksichtigung des Musculus sphincter iridis des Menschen," Anat. Anzeiger, xx, 1901. F. Tuckerman : " On the Development of the Taste Organs in Man," Journal of Anat. and Physiol., xxiv, 1889.503 CHAPTER XVII. POST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. In the preceding pages attention has been directed princi- pally to the changes which take place in the various organs during the period before birth, for, with a few exceptions, notably that of the liver, the general form and histological peculiarities of the various organs are acquired before that epoch. Development does not, however, cease with birth, and a few statements regarding the changes which take place in the interval between birth and maturity will not be out of place in a work of this kind. The conditions which obtain during embryonic life are so different from those to which the body must later adapt itself, that arrangements, such as those connected with the placental circulation, which are of fundamental importance during the life in utero, become of little or no use, while the relative importance of others is greatly diminished, and these changes react more or less profoundly on all parts of the body. Hence, although the post-natal development con- sists chiefly in the growth of the structures formed during earlier stages, yet the growth is not equally rapid in all parts, and indeed in some organs there may even be a rela- tive decrease in size. That this is true can be seen from the annexed figure (Fig. 273), which represents the body of a child and that of an adult man drawn as of the same height. The greater relative size of the head and upper part of the body in the child is very marked, and the central point of the height of the child is situated at about the level of the umbilicus, while in the man it is at the symphysis pubis.rOST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. This excessive development of the upper portions of the body of the child is largely due to the nature of the blood- supply during fetal life, when, as may be seen by reference to Fig. 157, the blood passing to the head, neck, arms and upper portions of the thorax leaves the aorta before the duc- tus arteriosus opens into it, and is therefore practically un- Ftg. 273.—Child and Man Drawn as of the Same Height.— (Longer, from the " Grozvth of the Brain," Contemporary Science Series, by permission of Charles Scribner's Sons.) mixed with venous blood, while throughout the rest of the body the supply is largely diluted with blood from the right side of the heart. That there is a distinct change in the geometric form of the body during growth is also well shown by the following consideration (Thoma). Taking the average height of a new-born male as 500 mm., and that of a man of thirty years of age as 1686 mm., the height of the body will havePOST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. 1686 increased from birth to adolescence = 3.37 tnnes. The child will weigh 3.1 kilos and the man 66.1 kilos, and if the specific gravity of the body with the included gases be taken in the one case as 0.90 and in the other as 0.93, then the volume of the child's body will be 3.44 liters and that of the man's 71.08 liters, and the increase in volume will be^^-—= 20.66. If the increase in volume had taken 3-34 place without any alteration in the geometric form of the body, it should be equal to the cube of the increase in height; this, however, is 3.37^ = 38.27, a number well-nigh twice as large as the actual increase. But in addition to these changes, which are largely de- pendent upon differences in the supply of nutrition, there are others associated with alterations in the general metab- olism of the body. Up to adult life the constructive metab- olism or anabolism is in excess of the destructive metabolism or katabolism, but the amount of the excess is much greater during the earlier periods of development and gradually diminishes as the adult condition is approached. That this is true during intrauterine life is shown by the following figures, compiled by Donaldson: Age in Weeks. Weight in (jrams. Age in Weeks. Weight in Grams. 0 (ovum) 0.0006 24 635 4 28 1220 8 4 32 1700 12 20 36 2240 16 120 40 (birth) 3250 20 From this table it may be seen that the embryo of eight weeks is six thousand six hundred and sixty-seven times as heavy as the ovum from which it started, and if the in- crease of growth for each of the succeeding periods of four weeks be represented as percentages, it will be seen that the 445o6 POST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. rate of increase undergoes a rapid diminution after the sixteenth week, and from that on diminishes gradually but less rapidly, the figures being as follows : Periods of Weeks. Percentage Increase. . Periods of Weeks . Percentage Increase. 8-12 400 24-28 92 I2-16 500 28-32 39 16-20 32-36 32 20-24 123 36-40 45 That the same is true in a general way of the growth after birth may be seen from the following table, repre- senting the average weight of the body in English males at different years from birth up to twenty-three (Roberts), and also the percentage rate of increase. Year. Number of Weight in Percentage Cases. Kilograms. Increase. 0 451 3-2 I (10.8) 14.7'^ (238) (36)* 2 2 3 41 iS-4 4.8* 4 102 16.9 9-7 5 193 18.1 7-1 6 224 20.1 II 7 246 22.6 12.4 8 820 24.9 10.2 9 1425 27.4 10 10 1464 30.6 II-5 11 1599 32.6 6.5 12 1786 34-9 7 13 2443 37-6 7-7 14 2952 41.7 10.9 15 3II8 46.6 II 7 16 2235 53-9 15-7 17 2496 59-3 10 18 2150 62.2 4.9 19 1438 63-4 1.9 20 851 64.9 2.5 21 738 657 1.2 22 542 67.0 1.9 23 551 67.0 0 * From a comparison with other similar tables there is little doubt but that the weight given above for the second year is too high to be accepted as a good average. Consequently the percentage increase for the second year is too high and that for the third year too low.POST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. ■ Certain interesting peculiarities in post-natal growth be- come apparent from an examination of this table. For while there is a general diminution in the rate of growth, AGS LisJS " U « 12 " W - 8 " 6 ' 4 • 2 Age LhsU " 12 " to " 8 '• 6 H ^ ' Z / j» •? 5 6 7 8 9 W Ti J2 13 16 26 17 19 t \ 1 -7 t -y, •' \ —1 ■ II r 2 3 4-5 6 7 8 9 JO 11 12 13 14- ^ 1 5 17 18 \ \ \ \ —r \ ?■ \— Fig. 274.—Curves Showing the Annual Increase in Weight in (I) Boys and (II) Girls. The faint line represents the curve from British statistics, the dotted line that from American (Bowditch), and the heavy line the aver- age of the two. Before the sixth year the data are unreliable.— {_Stephenson.^ yet there are marked irregularities, the most noticeable being (i) a rather marked diminution during the eleventh It may be mentioned that the weights in the original table are ex- pressed in pounds avoirdupois and have been here converted into kilograms, and further the figures representing the percentage increase have been added.POST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. 5o8 and twelfth years, followed by (2) a rapid acceleration which reaches its maximum at about the sixteenth year and then very rapidly diminishes. These irregularities may be more clearly seen from the charts on page 507, which rep- resent the curves obtained by plotting the annual increase of weight in boys (Chart I) and girls (Chart II). The diminution and acceleration of growth referred to above are clearly observable, and it is interesting to note that they occur at earlier periods in girls than in boys, the diminution occurring in girls at the eighth and ninth years and the acceleration reaching its maximum at the thirteenth year. Considering, now, merely the general diminution in the rate of growth which occurs from birth to adult-life, it becomes interesting to note to what extent the organs which are more immediately associated with the metabolic activi- ties of the body undergo a relative reduction in weight. The most important of these organs is undoubtedly the liver, but with it there must also be considered the thyreoid and thymus glands, and probably the suprarenal bodies. In all these organs there is a marked diminution in size as com- pared with the weight of the body, as will be seen from the following table (H. Vierordt), which also includes data ABSOLUTE WEIGHT IN GRAMS. New-born and Adult. Liver. Thy- reoid. Ihy- mus. Suprarenal Bodies. Spleen. Heart. Kid- ney. Brain Spinal Cord. 141.7 1819.O 4-85 33-8 8.15 26.9 7-05 7-4 10.6 163.0 23.6 300.6 23-3 305-9 381.0 1430.9 5-5 39-15 PERCENTAGE WEIGHT OF ENTIRE BODY. New-born and Adult. Liver. Thy- reoid. Thy- mus. Suprarenal Bodies. Spleen Heart. K d- ney. Brain. Spinal Cord. 4-57 2.57 0.16 0.05 0.26 0.04 0.23 O.OI 0.34 0.25 0.76 0.46 0.75 0.46 12.29 2.16 0.18 0.06POST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. regarding other organs in which a marked relative diminu- tion, not in all cases readily explainable, occurs. Recent observations by Hammar render necessary some modification of the figures given for the thymus in the above table. He finds the average weight of the gland at birth to be 13.26 grms., and that the weight increases up to puberty, averaging 37.52 grms. between the ages of 11 and 15. After that period it gradually diminishes, falling to 16.27 grms. between 36 and 45 and to 6.0 grms. between 66 and 75. Ex- pressed in percentage of the body weight this gives a value in the new-born of 0.42 and in an individual of 50 years of 0.02, a difference much more striking than that shown in Vier- ordt's table. It must be mentioned, however, that the gland is subject to much individual variation, being largely influenced by nutritive conditions. The remaining organs, not included in the tables given above, when compared with the weight of the body, either show an increase or remain practically the same. ABSOLUTE WEIGHT IN GRAMS. New-born and Adult. Skin and Subcutan- eous Tissues. Skeleton. Musculature. Stomach and Intestines. Pancreas. Lungs 611.75 II765.O 425-S 11575.0 776.5 28732.0 65 1364 3.5 97-6 54.1 994-9 PERCENTAGE OF BODY-WEIGHT. New-born and Adult. Skin and Subcutan- eous Tissues. Skeleton. Musculature Stomach and Intestines. Pancreas. Lungs. 1973 17-77 13-7 17.48 25.05 43.40 2.1 2.06 0. II 0.15 1.75 1.50 From this table it will be seen that the greatest increment of weight is that furnished by the muscles, the percentage weight of which is one and three-fourths times as great in the adult as in the child. The difference does not, however, depend upon the differentiation of additional muscles; therePOST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. are just as many muscles in the new-born child as in the adult, and the increase is due merely to an enlargement of organs already present. The percentage weight of the digestive tract, pancreas, and lungs remains practically the same, while in the case of the skeleton there is an appreciable increase, and in that of the skin and subcuta- neous tissue a slight diminution. The latter is readily understood when it is remembered that the area of the skin, granting that the geometric form of the body remains the same, would increase as the square of the length, while the mass of the body would increase as the cube, and hence in comparing weights the skin might be expected to show a diminution even greater than that shown in the table. The increase in the weight of the skeleton is due to a certain extent to growth, but chiefly to a completion of the ossification of the cartilage largely present at birth. A com- parison of the weights of this system of organs does not, therefore, give evidence of the many changes of form which may be perceived in it during the period under considera- tion, and attention may be drawn to some of the more im- portant of these changes. In the spinal column one of the most noticeable peculiari- ties observable in the new-born child is the absence of the curves so characteristic of the adult. These curves are due partly to the weight of the body, transmitted through the spinal column to the hip-joint in the erect position, and partly to the action of the muscles, and it is not until the erect position is habitually assumed and the musculature gains in development that the curvatures became pronounced. Even the curve of the sacrum, so marked in the adult, is but slight in the new-born child, as may be seen from Fig. 275, in which the ventral surfaces of the first and second sacral vertebrae look more ventrally than posteriorly, so that there is no distinct promontory.POST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. " adult 31.6 22. I 46.6 But, in addition to the appearance of the curvatures, other changes also occur after birth, the entire column be- coming much more slender and the proportions of the lum- FiG. 275.—Longitudinal Section through the Sacrum of a New- born Female Child.— (Fehling.) bar and sacral vertebree becoming quite different, as may be seen from the following table (Aeby) : LENGTHS OF THE VERTEBRAL REGIONS EXPRESSED AS PERCENTAGES OF THE ENTIRE COLUMN. Age. Cervical Thoracic. Lumbar. 25.6 47-5 26.8 23-3 46.7 30.0 " 5 " 20.3 45-6 34-2 " II «♦ 19.7 47.2 33-1rOST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. 512 The cervical region diminishes in length, while the lumbar gains, the thoracic remaining approximately the same. It may be noticed, furthermore, that the difference between the two variable regions is greater during youth than in the adult, a. condition possibly associated with the general more rapid development of the lower portion of the body made necessary by its imperfect development during fetal life. The difference is due to changes in the vertebrae, the inter- vertebral disks retaining approximately the same relative thickness throughout the period under consideration. The form of the thorax also alters, for whereas in the adult it is barrel-shaped, narrower at both top and bottom than in the middle, in the new-born child it is rather conical, the base of the cone being below. The difference depends upon slight differences in the form and articulations of the ribs, these being more horizontal in the child and the open- ing of the thorax directed more directly upward than in the adult. As regards the skull, the processes of growth are very complicated. Cranium and brain react on one another, and hence, in harmony with the relatively enormous size of the brain at birth, the cranial cavity has a relatively greater volume in the child than in the adult. The fact that the entire roof and a considerable part of the sides of the skull are formed of membrane bones which, at birth, are not in sutural contact with one another throughout, gives oppor- tunity for considerable modifications, and, furthermore, the base of the skull at the early stage still contains a consider- able amount of unossified cartilage. Without entering into minute details, it may be stated that the principal general changes which the skull undergoes in its post-natal develop- ment are (i) a relative elongation of its anterior portion and (2) an increase in the relative height of the maxillse. If a line be drawn between the central points of the occip-POST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. 5 ' 3 ital condyles, it will divide the base of the skull into two por- tions, which in the child's skull are equal in length. The portion of the skull in front of a similar line in the adult skull is very much greater than that which lies behind, the proportion between the two parts being 5:3, against 3:3 in the child (Froriep). There has, therefore, been a decid- edly more rapid growth of the anterior portion of the skull, a growth which is associated with a corresponding increase in the dorso-ventral dimensions of the maxillae. These bones, indeed, play a very important part in determining the proportions of the skull at different periods. They are so intimately associated with the cranial portions of-the skull that their increase necessitates a corresponding in- crease in the anterior part of the cranium, and their increase in this direction stands in relation to the development of the teeth, the eight teeth which are developed in each maxilla (including the premaxilla) in the adult requiring a longer bone than do the five teeth of the primary dentition, these again requiring a greater length when completely developed than they do in their immature condition in the new-born child. But far more striking than the difference just described is that in the relative height of the cranial and facial regions (Fig. 276). It has been estimated that the volumes of the two portions have a ratio of 8: i in the new-born child, 4: i at five years of age, and 2:1 in the adult skull (Froriep), and these differences are due principally to changes in the vertical dimensions of the maxillae. As with the increase in length, the increase now under consideration is, to a cer- tain extent at least, associated with the development of the teeth, these structures calling into existence the. alveolar processes which are practically wanting in the child at birth. But a more important factor is the development of th€ max- illary sinuses, the practically solid bodies of the maxillaPOST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. becoming transformed into hollow shells. These cavities, tog-ether with the sinuses of the sphenoid and frontal bones, which are also post-natal developments, seem to stand in relation to the increase in length of the anterior portion of the skull, serving to diminish the weight of the portion of the skull in front of the occipital condyles and so relieving the muscles of the neck of a considerable strain to which they would otherwise be subjected. These changes in the proportions of the skull have, of course, much to do with the changes in the general pro- FiG. 276.—Skull of a New-born Child and of an Adult Man, Drawn AS OF Approximately the Same Size.— (Hciikc.) portions of the face. But the changes which take place in the mandible are also important in this connection, and are similar to those of the maxillae in being associated with the development of the teeth. In the new-born child the horizontal ramus is proportionately shorter than in the adult, while the vertical ramus is very short and joins the horizontal one at an obtuse angle. The development of the teeth of the primary dentition, and later of the three molars, necessitates an elongation of the horizontal ramus equivalent to that occurring in the maxillae, and, at the same time, the separation of the alveolar borders of the two bones requires an elongation of the vertical ramus if the condylePOST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. is to preserve its contact with the mandibular fossa, and this, again, demands a diminution of the angle at which the rami join if the teeth of the two jaws are to be in proper apposition. In the bones of the appendicular skeleton secondary epi- physial centers play an important part in the ossification, and in few are these centers developed prior to birth, while the union of the epiphyses to the main portions of the bones takes place only toward maturity. The dates at which the various primary and secondary centers appear, and the time at which they unite, may be seen from the following table: UPPER EXTREMITY. Bone. Clavicle Scapula. Body Coracoid ... Humerus Ulna Radius Cap! latum Hamatum Tricjuetrum Lunatum MuUangulum majus Navicular Multangul um minus Pisiform Metacarpals .. Phalanges Appearance of Primary Center. 6th week. 8th zueek. | 1st year. 7//; week. "Jth 7veek. Jth week. 1st year. 2d year. 3d year. 4th year. 5 th year. 6th year. 8th year. 12th year. gth week, glh-iith week. Appearance of Secondary Centers (At Sternal end) 17th year. 2 acromial 15th year. 2 on vertical border i6th year. Head 1st year. Great tuberosity 3d year. Lesser tuberosity 5th year. Inner condyle 5th year. Capitellum 3d year. Trochlea loth year. Outer condyle 14th year. Olecranon loth year. Distal epiphysis 4th year. Proximal epiphysis 5th year. Distal epiphysis 2d year. 3d year. 3d-5th years. Fusion of Centers. 20th year. I 20tli year. 15th year. \ 20th year. I 17th year. 16th year. l8lh year. 17th year. 20th year. 20th year. I7th-i8th year. The dates in italics are before birth.516 POST-N AT A L DE V ELO P M E N T. LOWER EXTREMITY. Bone. Ilium Ischium.... Pubis Patella Femur Tibia Fibula Talus Calcaneus.. Cuboid Navicular.., Cuneiforms Metatarsals Phalanges. Appearance of Primary Center. g.'/i week. 4/h JHon/h. 4th month yth 7oeek. yth week. -| 8th week. Appearance of Secondary Centers. Crest 15th year. Anterior inferior spine 15th year. Tuberosity 15th year. Crest 18th year. Cartilage appears at 4th month, ossification in 3d Head ist year. Great trochanter 4th year. Lesser trochanter I3lh-i4th year. Condyle gth month. Head end of gth month. Distal end 2d year. Upper epiphysis 5th year. Lower epiphysis 2d year. Fusion of Cen- ters. I yth month. 6th month. A few days after birth. 4th year. 1st year. gth week. gth-i2th iveek. loth year. 3d year. 4th-Slh years. 22d year. year. 20lh year. 19th year. 18th year. 2ist year. 2ist-25th year. l8th year. 21st year. 20th year. 16th year. 20th year. The dates in italics are before birth. So far as actual changes in the form of the appendicular bones are concerned, these are most marked in the case of the lower limb. The ossa innominata alter somewhat in their proportions after birth, a fact which may conveniently be demonstrated by considering the changes which occur in the proportions of the pelvic diameters, although it must be remembered that these diameters are greatly influenced by the development of the sacral curve. Taking the conju- gate diameter of the pelvic brim as a unit for comparison, the antero-posterior (dorso-ventral) and transverse diame- ters of the child and adult have the proportions shown in the table on the opposite page (Fehling). It will be seen from this that the general form of the pelvis in the new-born child is that of a cone, gradually diminishing in diameter from the brim to the outlet, a con- dition very different from what obtains in the adult. Fur-POST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. Diameter. New-born Female. Adult Female. New-born Male. Male. 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.19 1.292 1.20 1.294 0.96 0.91 1.18 1.01 1.151 0.99 1.14 0.91 1.05 0.78 1.07 0.83 1.154 0.84 thermore, it is interesting to note that sexual differences in the form of the pelvis are clearly distinguishable at birth; indeed, according to Fehling's observations, they become noticeable during the fourth month of intrauterine develop- ment. The upper epiphysis of the femur is entirely unossified at birth and consists of a cartilaginous mass, much broader than the rather slender shaft and possessing a deep notch upon its upper surface (Fig. 277). This notch marks off the great trochanter from the head of the bone, and at this stage of development there is no neck, the head being prac- tically sessile. As development proceeds the inner upper portion of the shaft grows more rapidly than the outer por- tion, carrying the head away from the great trochanter and forming the neck of the bone. The acetabulum is shallower at birth than in the adult and cannot contain more than half the head of the femur; consequently the articular portion of the head is much less extensive than in the adult. It is a well-known fact that the new-born child habitually holds the feet with the soles directed toward one another, a position only reached in the adult with some difficulty, and associated with this supination or inversion there is a pro- nounced extension of the foot {i. e., flexion upon the leg as usually understood; see p. 91), it being difficult to flex the child's foot beyond a line at right angles with the axis518 POST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. of the leg. These conditions are due apparently to the ex- tensor and tibialis muscles being relatively shorter and the opposing- muscles relatively longer than in the adult, and with the elongation or shortening, as the case may be, of the muscles on the assumption of the erect position, the bones in the neighborhood of the ankle-joint come into new relations to one another, the result being a modification of the form of the articular surfaces, especially of the talus Fig. 277.—Longitudinal Sections of the Head of the Femur of (A) New-born Child and (B) a Later Stage of Development. cp, Epiphysial center for the head; hj head; t, trochanter.— (Henke.) (astragalus). In the child the articular cartilage of the trochlear surface of this bone is continued onward to a con- siderable extent upon the neck of the bone, which comes into contact with the tibia in the extreme extension possible in the child. In the adult, however, such extreme extension being impossible, the cartilage upon the neck gradually dis- appears. The supination in the child brings the talus in close contact with the inner surface of the calcaneus and with the sustentaculum tali; with the alteration of position a growth of these portions of the calcaneus occurs, the sus-POST-NATAL DEVELOPMENT. tentaculum becoming higher and broader, and so becoming an obstacle in the way of supination in the adult. At the same time a greater extent of the outer surface of the talus comes into contact with the lateral malleolus, with the result that the articular surface is considerably increased on that portion of the bone. Marked changes in the form of the talo-navicular articulation also occur, but their consideration would lead somewhat further than seems desirable. LITERATURE. C. Aeby : " Die Altersverschiedenheiten der menschlichen Wirbelsaule." Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Ahth., 1879. W. Camerer : " Untersuchungen iiber Massenwachsthnm und Langen- wachsthtim der Kinder," Jahrhuch fur Kinderheilkunde, xxxvi^ 1893. H. H. Donaldson: "The Growth of the Brain," London, 1895. H. Fehling : " Die Form des Beckens beim Fotus und Neugeborenen und ihre Beziehung zu der beim Erwachsenen," Archiv fiir Gynii- kol, X, 1876. J. A. Hammar: "Ueber Gewicht, Involution und Persistenz der Thy- mus im Postfotalleben des Menschen," Archiv fiir Anat. und Phys., Anat. Ahth., Supplement, 1906. W. Henke: "Anatomie des Kindersalters," Handbuch der Kinder- krankheiten (Gerhardt), Tubingen, 1881. C. Hennig: "Das kindhche Becken," Archiv fiir Anat. und Physiol., Anat. Ahth., 1880. C. HuTER: " Anatomische Studien an den Extremitatengelenken Neuge- borener und Erwachsener," Archiv fiir patholog. Anat. und Physiol., XXV, 1862. W. Stephenson : " On the Relation of Weight to Height and the Rate of Growth in Man," The Lancet, 11, 1888. R. Thoma: "Untersuchungen iiber die Grosse und das Gewicht der anatomischen Bestandtheile des menschlichen Korpers," Leipzig, 1882. H. Vierordt: "Anatomische, Physiologische und Physikalische Daten und Tabellen," Jena, 1893. H. Welcker: "Untersuchungen iiber Wachsthum und Bau des mensch- lichen Schadels," Leipzig, 1862.45 521 INDEX. A After-birth, 144 After-brain, 411 Agger Nasi, 186 Allantois, 114, 119 Alveolo-lingual glands, 311 groove, 306 Amitotic division, 7 Amnion, 115 Amniotic cavity, 57 Amphiarthrosis, 199 Amphiaster, 6 Annulus of Vieussens, 246 Anterior commissure, 431 Anthelix, 477 Antitragus, 477 Anus, 299 Aortic arches, 256 septum, 249 Archenteron, 49, 296 Archoplasm sphere, 4 Arcuate fibers, 415 Areas of Langerhans, 332 Arrectores pilorum, 154 Arteries, 253 allantoidean, 255 anterior tibial, 267 aorta, 257 branchial, 255 carotid, 256 centralis retinie, 491 coeliac, 259 common iliac, 258 epigastric, 262 external iliac, 267 maxillary, 256 femoral, 267, 269 hyaloid, 480 hypogastric, 259, 261 inferior mesenteric, 259 innominate, 257 intercostal, 258 internal mammary, 262 maxillary, 256 spermatic, 259 Arteries—continued interosseous, 265 lingual, 256 lumbar, 258 median, 265 middle sacral, 259 omphalo-mesenteric, 119, 235 peroneal, 269 popliteal, 267 posterior tibial, 269 pulmonary, 256 radial, 267 renal, 259 saphenous, 267 sciatic, 267 subclavian, 268 superficial radial, 265 superior intercostal, 262 mesenteric, 259 vesical, 261 temporal, 256 ulnar, 265 umbilical, 122, 255, 260 vertebral, 262 vitelline, 235 Articular capsvile, 199 Ary-epiglottic folds, 356 Arytenoid cartilages, 358 Aster, 4 Atresia of duodenum, 325 of pupil, 484 Atrial septum, 246 Atrio-ventricular valves, 251 Auerbach, plexus of, 448 Auricle, 476 Axis cylinder, 402 B Bartholin, glands of, 384 Belly-stalk, 70, 120 Bile capillaries. 329 Bladder, 382 Blastoderm, 44 Blastopore, 49, 60 Blastula,522 INDEX. Blood, 237 islands, 234 vessels, 233 Body cavity, 50 Bone, development of, 161 growth of, 164 Bone-marrow, 163 Bones: atlas, 171, 174 axis, 171, 174 carpal, 195, 515 clavicle, 193, 515 coccyx, 175 conchse, 186 epistropheus, 171, 174 ethmoid, 184 femur, 197, 516, 517 fibula, 197, 516 frontal, 188 humerus, 194, 515 hyoid, 191 ilium, 196, 515 incus, 190, 471 innominate, 196, 516 interparietal, 182 ischium, 197, 516 lachrymal, 188 malleus, 190, 471 mandible, 190 maxilla, 189 metacarpal, 196, 515 metatarsal, 198, 516 nasal, 188 occipital, 178, 182 palatine, 189 parietal, 188 patella, 197, 516 periotic, 178, 186 phalanges, 196, 198, 515, 516 premaxilla, 190 pubis, 197, 516 radius, 195, 515 ribs, 172 sacrum, 174 scapula, 194, 515 sphenoid, 183 stapes, 471 sternum, 175 suprasternal, 175 tarsal, 198, 516 temporal, 187 tibia, 197, 516 turbinated, 186 ulna, 195. 515 vertebrae, 168, 173, 5" Bones—continued vomer, 185 zygomatic, 188 Brachia conjunctiva, 419 Brain, 409 Branchial arches, 76, 85 clefts, 76 epithelial bodies, 313 fistula, 77 Branchiomeres, 107 Bronchi, 354 Bulbo-urethral glands, 384 Bulbo-vestibular glands, 384 Burdach, fasciculus of, 409 C Caecum, 323 Calcar, 429 Canal of Cloquet, 496 of Gaertner, 380 of Nuck, 388 of Petit, 496 Capillaries, 235 Cartilages of Santorini, 358 of Wrisberg, 358 Caruncula lacrimalis, 501 Caul, 118 Cell, I Cell-theory, i Centrosome, 4 Cerebellum, 417 Cerebral aqueduct, 420 cortex, 434 hemispheres, 425 convolutions, 428 peduncles, 419 Cheek groove, 309 Chin ridge, 89 Chondrocranium, 178, 181 Chorda canal, 60 dorsalis, 100 endoderm, 100 Chorioid coat, 496 plexus, 413, 423, 427 Chorioidal fissure of brain, 426 of eye, 479, 485 Chorion, 69, 125 Chorionic villi, 128 Chromaffine organs, 392 Chromatin, 4 Chromosomes, S Ciliary body, 486 ganglion, 449 muscle, 498 Cleft palate, 300 sternum, 177INDEX. Clitoris, 385 Cloaca, 296, 382 Cloacal membrane, 297 Cloquet, canal of, 496 Coccygeal ganglion, 292 Cochlea, 368 Coelom, so Collateral eminence, 431 Coloboma, 485 Colon, 322 Conjunctiva, 498 Connective tissues, 160 Cornea, 498 Corniculate cartilages, 358 Coronary sinus, 245 Corpora mamillaria, 423 cjuadrigemina, 420 Corpus albicans, 24 callosum, 431 luteum, 23 striatum, 426 Corti, spiral organ of, 467 Cowper, glands of, 384 Cranial nerves, 436 sinuses, 270 Cricoid cartilage, 358 Cuneiform cartilages, 358 Cutis plate, 106 Cytoplasm, 4 D Darwin's tubercle, 477 Decidua basalis, 134, 138 capsularis, 128, 136 reflexa, 128 serotina, 134, 138 vera, 134, 135 Decidual cells, 136, 144 Dendrites, 402 Dental groove, 301 shelf, 301 Dentate gyrus, 429 Dermatome, 106 Descent of ovary, 387 of testis, 388 Diaphragm, 339 Diarthrosis, 199 Diencephalon, 421 Discus proligerus, 18 Double monsters, 48 Duck of Santorini, 332 of Wrisberg, 332 Ductus arteriosus, 257 Botalli, 257 cochlearis, 464 Ductus Cuvieri, 272 ejaculatorius, 378 endolymphaticus, 462 reuniens, 464 venosus, 276 Duodenum, 321, 322, 324 E Ear, 461 Ebner, glands of, 460 Ectoderm, 49 Embryo, age of, 91 external form, 67 growth of, 506 Embryonic disc, 57 Enamel organ, 301 Enchylema, 4 Endoderm, 49 Enveloping layer, 44 Ependymal cells, 401 Epiblast, 49 Epibranchial ganglia, 445 Epidermis, 147 Epididymis, 377 Epiglottis, 356 Epiphyses, 164 Epiphysis cerebri, 421 Epiploic foramen, 344 Episternal cartilages, 175 Epitrichium, 147 Eponychium, 152 Epoophoron, 378 Erythroblasts, 239 Erythrocytes, 234 Erythroplastids, 239 Eustachian tube, 311, 471 valve, 247 Extrauterine pregnancy, 21 Eye, 477 Eyelids, 498 F Fallopian tubes, 350 Fasciculus communis, 441 of Burdach, 409 of Goll, 409 solitarius, 441 Fenestra cochleae, 470 ovalis, 470 rotunda, 470 vestibuli, 470 Fertilization of ovum, 31 Fetal circulation, 283 Fifth ventricle, 432 Filum terminale, 407524 INDEX. Foliate papillse, 461 Fontana, spaces of, 498 Foramen caecum, 306, 313 of Munro, 426 of Winslow, 344 ovale, 246 Fore-brain, 410 Formatio reticularis, 415 Fornix, 432 Frontal sinuses, 186 Furcula, 312 G Gaertner, canals of, 380 Gall bladder, 325 Ganglionated cord, 451 Gastral mesoderm, 52, 62 Gastrula, 49, 63 Geniculate bodies, 423 Genital folds, 385 ridge, 369 swelling, 385 tubercle, 385 Germ cells, 8 layers, 49 plasm, 8 Giraldes, organ of. 377 Glands of Bartholin, 384 of Cowper, 384 pf Ebner, 460 of Moll, 500 Goll, fasciculus of, 409 Graafian follicle, 17 Great omentum, 344 Groove of Rosenmiiller, 313 Gubernaculum testis, 372 Gynaecomastia, 159 H Haematopoietic organs, 237 Haemolymph nodes, 290 Hairs, 152 Hare lip, 89, 190 Head cavities, 104 process, 59 Heart, 241 Helix, 477 Hensen's node, 59 Hermaphroditism, 387 Hind-brain, 410 Hippocampus, 429 Hyaloid canal. 496 Hydatid of Morgagni, 378 stalked, 380 Hyperthelia, 158 Hypertrichosis, 155 Hypoblast, 49 Hypochordal bar, 169 Hypophysis, 424 Hypospadias, 386 Hypothalamic region, 423 Hymen, 380 I Implantation of ovum, 125 Infundibulum, 425 Inguinal canal, 390 Inner cell mass, 47 Insula, 430 Interarticular cartilages, 200 Intercarotid ganglion, 395 Intermediate cell mass, 104 Interrenal organs, 392 Interventricular foramen, 426 Intervertebral fibro-cartilage, 176 Intestine, 320 Iris, 486 Isthmus cerebri, 419 J Jacobson, organ of, 459 Joints, 199 K Karyokinesis, 7 Karyoplasm, 4 Kidney (see Metanephros), 366 L Labia majora, 386 minora, 385 Lachrymal gland, 500 Lamina terminalis, 424 Langerhans, areas of, 332 Langhans cells, 129 Lanugo, 154 Larynx, 356 Lateral thyreoids, 314 Lens, 480 Lesser omentum, 344 Leukocytes, 240 Ligaments : broad, of ovary, 371 coraco-humeral, 227 coronary, of liver. 341 costo-vertebral, 170 falciform, of liver. 341 fibular lateral, of knee, 209 flavan, 170INDEX. Ligaments—continued inguinal, 388 interspinous, 170 intervertebral, 170 of the ovary, 372 pectinatum iridis, 498 round, of liver, 285 sacro-tuberous, 209 spheno-mandibular, 191 supraspinous, 170 teres, of ovary, 372 Limbs, 89 Lip-ridge, 89 Lips, 299 Liver, 325 Lungs, 352 Luschka's ganglion, 292 Lymphatics, 285 Lymph hearts, 285 nodes, 289 Lymphocytes, 239, 285 M Mammary gland, 155 Mandibular process, 82 Mastoid cells, 474 Maturation of ovum, 27 Maxillary process, 82 sinus, 186 Meckel's cartilage, 180, 190 diverticulum, 119, 323 Mediastina, 342 Medulla oblongata, 410 Medullary canal, 99 folds, 71, 96 groove, 96 sheath, 405 Megacaryocytes, 240 Meibomian glands, 500 Meissner, plexus of, 453 Membrana pupillaris, 484 reuniens, 107 tectoria, 468 Membrane bone, 162 Menstruation, 21 Mesencephalon, 420 Mesenchyme, 65 Mesenteriole, 348 Mesentery, 343 Mesocardium, 335 Mesocolon, 347 Mesoderm, 50 Mesodermic somites, 73, 103 Mesogastrium, 344 Mesonephros, 363 Mesorchium, 371, 390 Mesovarium, 371 Mesothelium, 65 Metamere, 108 Metanephros, 366 Metencephalon, 416 Mid-brain, 410 Middle ear, 470 Milk ridge, 156 Mitosis, 7 Moll, glands of, 500 Monro, foramen of, 426 Montgomery's glands, 158 Morgagni, hydatid of, 378 Morula, 44 Mouth cavity, 299 Mijllerian duct, 369 Muscle plates, 106 Muscles: biceps femoris, 226 branchiomeric, 214 chondroglossus, 218 coccygeus, 212 constrictor of pharynx, 218 cranial, 214 curvator coccygis, 214 depressors of hyoid, 211 digastric, 216 dilatator iridis, 487 dorsal, 210 eye, 215 erector spinae, 208 facial, 216 gastrocnemius, 225, 229 geniohyoid, 211 genioglossus, 211 glosso-palatinus, 218 hyoglossus, 212 hyposkeletal, 212 laryngeal, 218 latissimus dorsi, 208 levator ani, 212 limb, 220 longus capitis, 211 colli, 211 lumbrical, 229 masseter, 216 mylohyoid, 216 obliqui abdominis, 212 occipito-frontalis, 208, 216 omohyoid, 207 pectorals, 226, 227 perineal, 214 peroneus longus, 209 platysma, 216.526 INDEX. Muscles—continued psoas, 211 pterygoids, 216 pyramidalis, 210 rectus abdominis, 208, 210 scaleni, 212 serrati posteriores, 208 serratus anterior, 208 skeletal, 206 soleus, 225, 229 sphincter ani, 214 cloacae, 214 iridis, 487 stapedius, 216, 473 sternohyoid, 207 sternomastoid, 207, 212, 21 stylohyoid, 216 stylopharyngeus, 216 temporal, 216 tensor tympani, 216, 471 veli palati, 216 transversus abdominis, 2.12 thoracis, 208 trapezius, 207, 212. 218 Muscle tissue, 203 Myelencephalon, 413 Myelin, 405 Myoblasts, 204 Myotome, 106, 206 N Nails, 150 Nasal fossjE, 81 process, 88 Naso-lachrymal duct, 500 Nephrostome, 362 Nephrotome, 106 Nerve components, 440 roots, 402 Nerves: auditory, 443 cranial, 436 hypoglossal, 439 olfactory, 457 optic, 491 recurrent, 359 spinal, 434 accessory, 444 splanchnic, 451 Nerve tissue, 400 Neural crest, 403 Neurenteric canal, 60, 71, 96 Neuroblasts, 401 Neuroglia cells, 401 Neuromeres, 446 Neurone theory, 405 Non-sexual reproduction, 9 Nuck, canal of, 388 Nucleoli, 4 Nucleus, 4 O CEsophagus, 318 Qistrus, 23 Odontoblasts, 304 Olfactory lobes, 433 organ, 457 Olivary body, 415 Omentum, 344 Oocyte, 27 Optic cup, 479, 485 recess, 424 Oral fossa, 74, 296 Organ of Giraldes, 377 of Jacobson, 459 of Rosenmiiller, 378 Organs, 3 of taste, 460 of Zuckerkandl, 398 Osteoblasts, 162 Osteoclasts, 165 Otocyst, 461 Otic ganglion, 453 Ovary, 375 descent of, 388 Ovulation, 20 Ovum, 17 implantation of, 125 fertilization of, 31 maturation of, 27 segmentation of, 39 P Palate, 299 Pancreas, 331 Paradidymis, 377 Paraphysis, 422 Parathymus, 317 Parathyreoid bodies, 315 Paroophoron, 378 Parotid gland, 310 Parovarium, 378 Parthenogenesis, 9 Penis, 386 Pericardial cavity, 338 Perineal body, 384 Perionyx, 152 Periosteum, 162 Periotic capsule, 178, 186 Peritoneum, 343 Petit, canal of, 496INDEX. 5 Pfliiger's cords, 375 Pharyngeal bursa, 312 membrane, 296 tonsil, 312 Pharynx, 311 Pineal body, 421 Pinna, 476 Pituitary body, 424 Placenta, 139 prjevia, 139 Pleurje, 342 Pleuro-peritoneal cavity, 104, 339 Plica semilunaris, 500 Polar globules, 28 Polycaryocytes, 240 Polymastia, 158 Polyspermy, 34 Post-anal gut, 297 Post-branchial bodies, 316 Post-natal development, 503 Precaudal recess, 298 Precoracoid, 200 Prepuce, 386 Primitive groove, 59 streak, 52 Processus globularis, 88 Pronephric duct, 361 Pronephros, 361 Pronuclei, 32 Prooestrum, 23 Prostate gland, 384 Prostomiail mesoderm, 52, 62 Protoplasm, 2 Protovertebrae, 103 R Rathke's pouch, 301, 424 Rauber's covering layer, 47 Receptaculum chyli, 286 Rectum, 297 Red nucleus, 420 Reduction of chromosomes, 15 Restiform body, 416 Rete cords, 371 ovarii, 376 testis, 373 Retina, 487 Rhinencephalon, 434 Rosenmiiller, groove of, 313 organ of, 378 S Sacculus, 464 Salivary glands, 308 Santorini, cartilages of, 358 duct of, 332 Sarcode, 2 Scala tympani, 470 vestibuli, 470 Sclerotic coat, 496 Sclerotome, 106 Scrotum, 386 Sebaceous glands, 154 Segmentation of ovum, 39 Semicircular ducts, 462 Semilunar valves, '252 Septum pellucidum, 423 primum, 246 secundum, 246 spurium, 245 transversum, 337, 339, 342 Sertoli cell, 13 Sex cords, 371 Sexual reproduction, 9 Sinusoid, 236 Sinus pocularis, 378 praecervicalis, 86 Situs inversus viscerum, 48 Skin, 147 Skull, 177, 512 Socia parotidis, 310 Solitary fasciculus, 414 Somatic cells, 8 Spaces of Fontana, 498 Spermatic cord, 390 Spermatid, 14 Spermatocyte, 14 Spermatogenesis, 13 Spermatogonia, 13 Spermatozoon, 11 Sphenoidal cells, 186 Spheno-palatine ganglion, 453 Spinal cord, 406 nerves, 434 Spiral organ of Corti, 467 Spleen, 290 Stomach, 318 Sublingual ganglion, 453 gland, 310 Submaxillary ganglion, 453 gland, 310 Substance islands, 234 Sudoriparous glands, 155 Sulcus Monroi, 421 Superfetation, 36 Suprabranchial ganglia, 445 Suprarenal bodies, 392 accessory, 395 Supratonsillar fossa, 313 Suture, 199 Sympathetic nervous system, 446528 INDEX. Synchondrosis, 199 Systems, 3 T Tail filament, 83 Tarsal glands, 500 Taste, organs of, 460 Teeth, 301 Tegmentum, 419 Telencephalon, 424 Testis, 372 descent of, 388 Thalami, 423 Thebesian valve, 247 Thoracic duct, 286 Thymus gland, 316, 508 Thyreoid cartilage, 357 gland, 313 Thyreo-glossal duct, 314 Tissues, 3 Tongue, 306 Tonsils, 312 Touch, organs of, 460 Tragus, 477 Trophoderm, 57 Tubse uterinEe, 380 Tuber cinereum, 423 Tuberculum impar, 306 Tunica vaginalis testis, 389 vasculosa lentis, 482 Tween-brain, 410 Twin-development, 47 Tympanic cavity, 471 membrane, 474 U Umbilical cord, 79, 122 Umbilicus, 72, 122 Urachus, 122, 383 Ureter, 366 Urethra, 384 Urogenital sinus, 382 Uterus, 380, 381 masculinus, 378 Utriculus, 464 V Vagina, 380 Vaginal process, 388 Vallate papillae, 460 Vas deferens, 378 Veins: anterior cardinal, 269 tibial, 282 ascending lumbar, 281 azygos, 281 Veins—continued basilic, 282 cephalic, 282 emissary, 274 external jugular, 273 hemiazygos, 281 hepatic, 277 inferior vena cava, 279 innominate, 273 internal jugular, 269 jugulo-cephalic, 282 limb, 281 long saphenous, 282 omphalo-mesenteric, 235, 274 portal, 277 posterior cardinal, 274 primary fibular, 282 ulnar, 282 pulmonary, 282 renal, 279 subcardinal, 277 superior vena cava, 273 supracardinal, 279 suprarenal, 279 umbilical, 122 vitelline, 235 Velum, anterior, 419 interpositum, 422, 426 marginal, 401 posterior, 413 Ventricular septum, 248 Vermiform appendix, 324 Vernix caseosa, 117 Veru montanum, 380 Vesicula seminalis, 378 Vieussens, annulus of, 246 Villi, chorionic, 128 intestinal, 324 Vitreous humor, 494 Vulva, 386 W Wharton's jelly, 125 Winslow, foramen of, 344 Wirsung, duct of, 332 Witch milk, 159 Wolffian body, 361, 377 duct, 361, 377 ridge, 360 Wrisberg, cartilage of, 358 Y Yolk sac, 68, 114, 118 stalk, 72, 114 Z Zuckerkandl, organ of, 398