H <THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. INSTITUTED MDCCCLV11I. VOLUME X.NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY'S YEAR-BOOK OK MEDICINE, SURGERY, AND THK ALLIED SCIENCES, FOR I8 6 0. KDITED BY DR. G. HARLEY, DR. HAND FIELD JONES, MR, HULKE, DR. GRAILY HEWITT, and DR. SANDERSON. THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. LONDON. MDCCCLXLROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS ; CLASS ACCN. m SOURCE DATE 1. H. AIJT.AHD, PRINTER, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE.P RE FACE. The present volume:—being the New Sydenham Society's Year-Book' for I860, although of but slightly increased size, contains, in consequence of a smaller type having been employed, a third more matter than its predecessor. The volume differs still farther in the arrangement of the material. The abstracts, where abstracts are given, immediately follow the title or titles of the papers or treatises to which they refer. It has been thought better not to attempt any alphabetical arrangements oT the titles, but to group together those papers which refer to cognate subjects. By this method the reader's con- venience will probably be better served than by any other more arbitrary plan of classification. By reference to the Index the reader will always be able to discover any author's name, or the title of any papei', for which he may be in search. 77, KAHTiKY Street, W*j June, 1861. Postscript.—Editors of Journals and Authors of Books, Pamphlets, or Papers are invited to forward copies of their works to the Society's Depot, 28, Paternoster Row, in order that the same may he placed in the hands of the Editors of the ' Year- Book' for 1801, which is in course of preparation.1 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. BY G-EOEGrE HAELEY, M.D., PROFESSOR OF MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, HONORARY PHYSICIAN TO THE NORTHERN DISPENSARY, LONDON, ETC. MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, &C. Prof. C. Morel (Strasburg).—Elements of Hitman Histology, pp. 136, plates 28. Paris, i860. Griffith and Henfrey.—Micrographic Dictionary; a Guide to the Examination and Investigation of the Structure and Nature of Microscopic Objects. 2d edition, i860. H. Frey.—Histology and Histo-chemistry of Man.—On the Form and on the Constituents of the Body. Leipsic, 1859. With 388 woodcuts. Dr. F. Sibson.—Medical Anatomy. Fasciculus VI. Churchill, i860. Henry Gray.—Anatomy, Descriptive and Surgical. 2d edition, revised and enlarged, pp. 816, i860. Prof. Joseph Leidy.—An Elementary Treatise on Human Anatomy. With 392 illustrations, pp. 663, Philadelphia, i860. Dr. H. Meyer.—Why the Shoe Pinches. A Contribution to Applied Anatomy. Translated by J. S. Craig, pp. 55, i860. A. Moquin-Tandon.—Elements of Medical Zoology. Paris, 1859. i2tno. Dr. Lankester.—The Uses of Animals in relation to the Industry of Man. pp. 165, i860. Dr. Karl Vierordt.—Elements of Human Physiology. Frankfort, i860. First part, pp. 240. Hilles.— The Essentials of Physiology. pp. 328, i860. Dr. Kirkes.—Handbook of Physiology. Plates and woodcuts, 4th edition, thoroughly revised, i860. G. H. Lewes.—The Physiology of Common Life. Blackwood and Sons, i860. 2 vols., pp. 455 and 485. Dr. Brinton.—Introductory Lecture to a Course of Physiology. Lancet, Nov., pp. 425 and 456. Dr. Cappie.—Essays on Medical Science.—1. On the Nature of Inflam- mation. 2. On the Encephalic Circulation, pp. 103, i860. Combe.—The Management of Infancy, Physiological and Moral, intended chiefly for the use of Parents. Revised and edited by Sir James Clark, Bart. 9th edition, pp. 302, i860.2 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Galloway.—The First Step in Chemistry; a New Method of Teaching the Elements of the Science. 3d edition, pp. 297, i860. Prof. \V. A. Milleii.—Elements of Chemistry ; in three parts. I. Chemical Physics. II. Inorganic Chemistry. III. Organic Chemistry. Parker and Son, i860. Dr. Odling.—On Acids and Salts. Royal Institution of Great Britain, 30th March. Golding Bihd, and Charles Brooke.— The Elements of Natural Philosophy; or, an Introduction to the Study of the Physical Sciences, jjth edition, small 8vo, pp. 699, i860. Prof. Retzius.—A Glance at the Present State of Ethnology with Reference to the Form of the Skull. Read at the seventh meeting of the Scandinavian Association of Naturalists, held at Christiania in 1856. Translated by W. D. Moore, M.B., M.R.I.A. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April and July, i860. Dr. Boudin.—On the Non-cosmopolitism of the Human Race. Journ. de la Phys., April, i860, p. 363. Dr. Paul Broca.— On the Phenomena of Hyhridity in the Iluman Species. Journ. de la Phys., No. 10, April, i860, p. 392. See also No. 8, p. 601, of the same Journal. Dr. P. Guatiolet.—Memoir on Microcephalism, considered in its relations to the question of the Characters of the Iluman Race. Journ. de la Phys., No. 9, January, i860, p. 110. Dr. Henry McCormac.—Aspirations from the Inner, the Spiritual Life ; aiming to reconcile Religion, Literature, Science, and Art, with Faith, and Hope, and Love, and Immortality, i860, Longmans. 8vo, pp. 370. Prof. Laycock.—Mind and Brain ; or, the Correlations of Consciousness and Organization, with their Applications to Philosophy, Zoology, Physiology, Mental Pathology, and the Practice of Medicine. With illustrations. Sutherland and Knox, i860. 2 vols., pp. 404 and 480. W. E. C. Nourse—On the Organs of the Senses, and the Cerebral Facidties connected with them, i860, pp. 19. Dr. Azam.—Note on Nervous Sleep, or Hypnotism. Archiv. Gen. de Med., January, i860, p. 1. Dr. E. Mesnet. — Studies on Somnambulism, considered from a Patho- logical Point of View. Archiv. Gen. de M6d., February, i860, p. 147. Dr. Stephen H. Ward.—The Position and Prospects of Rational Medicine. An Oration delivered before the Members of the Hunterian Society. Churchill, i860. Pamphlet, pp. 52. John Gay.—The Aspects of Medical. Science." An Oration delivered, 8th March, i860, before the Medical Society of London. Dr. A. Wynter.—Curiosities of Civilisation. Reprinted from tbe Quarterly and Edinburgh Reviews, 2d edition, 8vo, pp. 535. Dr. J. C. Bucknill.— The Medical Knowledge of Shakespeare, i860, Longmans, pp. 292. Garratt.—Electro-Physiology and Electro-Therapeutics, showing the best Methods for the Medical Uses of Electricity, pp. 708. Boston. Dr. William Husband.—Exposition of a Method of Preserving Vaccine Lymph Fluid and Active ; with hints for the more efficient perform- ance of Public Vaccination. Churchill, i860.MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. 8 H. F. Baxter.—On Organic Polarity; showing a Connection to exist between Organic Forces and Ordinary Polar Forces. Crown 8vo. Dr. Alexander Henry.—A Glossary of Scientific Terms. For general use. Small 8vo, i860. Dr. Robert Fowler.— The Medical Vocabulary; containing a Concise Explanation of the Terms used in Medicine and its Accessory Sciences, pp. ,366, i860. Dr. Mayne.—An Expository Lexicon of the Terms, Ancient and Modern, in Medical and General Science, including a complete Medical and Medico-Legal Vocabulary. Churchill, i860. KoLLiKER.—A Manual of Human Microscopic Anatomy. With 249 illus- trations, pp. 6.33, i860. The book which Kb'Hiker now presents to the English public is, in the main, a condensed version of his German work, entitled ' Handbuch der Gewebclehre.'' 1st. With regard to the formation of cells, the author remarks that a distinction has been hitherto made between the/n?<? origin of cells and their production through the intervention of other cells. The further, however, investigation is prosecuted, the occurrence of a free cell-formation becomes more and more doubtful; and it appears that all animal cells arise, as in plants, in dependence upon other pre-existing cells. In this pro- cess of cell-multiplication the pre-existing cells either produce secondary cells, as they are called, or multiply by division—endogenous cell-formation and cell-formation by division. The cell-nuclei always play an essential part in the multiplication of cells, and appear to be the proper centres of formation for their evolution. In embryos the tissues are built up of the descendants of the cells which have arisen from the cleaving of the yelk, and even in pathological formations it would appear from recent researches that in many places where formerly a. free cell-formation was admitted, it does not occur. The multiplication of cells by division is well seen in the blood-corpuscles of embryos, while endogenous cell-formation is best studied in the ova of animals at the early period of their development, when the cleavage of the yelk is taking place. 2d. In speaking of the vital phenomena of fully developed cells, Kolliker remarks that, when cells are once formed, a considerable number of func- tions appear in them, which, like those of the entire organism, are divisible into animal and vegetative. The latter relate to the form of the cells and of their contents, as well as to their chemical composition, and may be designated by the names of growth and molecular changes. The nucleoli, and more especially the nuclei, also participate, to a certain degree, in the growth of the cells. 3d. Processes taking place in the interior of cells.—The phenomena manifested by cells during life may be designated as absorption, assimila- tion, and excretion. These are chiefly owing to chemical and physical causes, (a) With regard to absorption, it presents itself in all cells, and the primary cause of the entrance of material is simply to be sought in the capability of imbibition of the cell-wall and contents. By the term imbibition, however, it is not to be supposed that the cells indiscriminately admit all soluble substances approaching them ; for, on the contrary, they present, according to time and place, definite relations to the cytoblastema, rejecting one of its constituents and receiving another. This is proved by4 REPORT ON '1 11K INSTITl'TKS OS MEDICINE, the circumstance that in embryos, notwithstanding that tliere is one uni- form formative material for all the cells, some absorb one, some another, material. The reason of this phenomenon may be thus stated in general terms—that cell-walls do not act like simple filters, but allow one sub- stance or another to permeate them, according to their chemical com- position, the nature of the surrounding fluid, their condition of aggrega- tion, and their thickness. (6) The vegetative functions of animal cells are not limited to the taking up and transforming of matters, but extend to the excreting of materials. Cells may either excrete the mate- rials they absorb in an unaltered form, or give off substances which they themselves have prepared. The separated materials frequently present no relations to the cells whence they come, and are either subservient to special purposes in the animal economy or are entirely removed from the body, (c) Regarding the animal functions of cells, it is extremely difficult to say whether certain movements which appear in cells concern only the contents or the cell-wall also. In some of the lowest animals which have the signification of simple cells—Rhizopoda, &c.—the outer envelope appears to be contractile, either in its totality or in its external processes; yet it is also conceivable that all the movements we observe depend only upon the contents, and that the envelope simply follows them as an elastic body. 4th. Metamorphoses of cells.—The destination of the cells which are deve- loped at earlier or later periods in the organism is very various, (a) Many cells never go through any metamorphoses, but remain as simple cells, till sooner or later they perish—epithelium-cells, cells of glandular parenchymas, &c. (6) A considerable number of cells become altered in form and change more or less their original nature, such as the horny plates of the epidermis and nails, (c) Other cells remain only for a short period in their primitive state ; they become modified, and unite with others for the formation of the higher elementary parts—muscular fibres, &c. John Marshall (Univ. Coll.)—A Description of the Human Body, its Structure and Functions. 4to, pp. 240, and an Atlas of 193 coloured illustrations, i860. This work, the author states, is designed for the use of teachers in schools and young men destined for the medical profession, and for popular instruction generally. It occupies a position midway between the strictly medical and the general educational treatises. Dr. T. Spencer Cobbold.—Mammalian Division of the Museum of Natural History, i860. This work, though devoted to the zoological characters and habits of animals, contains a succinct account of the anatomy of each order. The division is illustrated with 34 plates and 93 wood-engravings. Dr. J. L. Teed.—Animal Chemistry, and its Relations to Therapeutics. Amer. Journ. Med. Science, July, i860, p. 63. In a long review article, Teed gives a rfaumi of many of the recent dis- coveries in animal chemistry, and concludes by saying that, in framing a dietary, especially in convalescence and in health, 110 difficulty will be found if physiological principles are borne in mind. The albuminous foods most readily convertible into albuminose, combined with such proportions5 .MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. of tat, sugar, and starch, as the condition of the assimilating organs can appropriate without subsequent ill effects, and in such quantities of each that the excess, if any, be slightly on the nitrogenous side of the scale, will be generally the most advantageous, only remembering that the fat cannot be too free from rancidity or the sugar too pure; and especially should this be borne in mind in the feeding of children, while in all the use of gelatinous food should be but sparing. The use of fresh, lean meat, the author says, cannot be too strongly inculcated, but an abundance of pure, fresh air is of no less importance, for out-of-door exercise imparts an energy to the system often unknown before, and unattainable by any other means. The more rapid the tissue-change, provided its replacement correspond, the less effete matter will be in the system, the more vigorous will be the frame, and the better able to withstand the inroads of disease. Kirchhoff and Bunsen.— On Chemical Analysis by Spectrum-observations. Quart. Chemical Journ., Oct., i860, p. 270. Kirchhoff and Bunsen have availed themselves of the well-known power which many substances possess of developing peculiar bright lines 111 the spectrum of a flame, to found a new method of qualitative analysis of a delicacy hitherto unknown. The flame that has the highest tem- perature and the least illuminating power is the best for this purpose. As the result of their experiments, they state that neither the alteration of the bodies with which the metals may be combined, nor the variety of the chemical processes occurring in the several flames, nor the wide differ- ences of temperature which these flames exhibit, produce any effect upon the position of the bright lines in the spectrum which are characteristic of each metal, but that in the same flame the brightest spectra are given by the most volatile compounds of a metal. The higher the temperature of the flame, the more intense is the spectrum. The delicacy of this method of analysis is such that chloride of sodium can be detected by it in com- mon atmospheric air, and the authors imagine that the minute particles of salt floating about may serve to supply the wants of the smaller organized beings. Moreover, they think that there is another point of view, in which the presence of this chloride in the air is of interest, namely, if the spread of contagious diseases is to be sought for in some peculiar contact-action, it is possible that the presence of an antiseptic substance like chloride of sodium, even in almost infinitely small quantities, in the atmosphere, may not be without influence upon such occurrences. By continued observations one might be able to discover if the presence of salt in the air had any con- nection with the appearance and direction of the march of an epidemic disease. Kirchhoff and Bunsen have found lithium in the ashes of tobacco, of vine leaves, of the wood of the vine, and of grapes, as well as in the milk of animals. And Dr. Folwarczny has, by the same method of analysis, detected lithium in the ashes of human blood and muscular fibre. Our authors say, too, that it is only necessary to hold the end of a burnt cigar in the flame in order at once to see that it contains sodium, potas- sium, and lithium. In the waters of many mineral spi-ings, such as Dlirk- heim and Kreuznach, they have detected sodium, potassium, lithium, calcium, and strontium. The method of spectrum-analysis not only offers a mode of detecting with the greatest simplicity the presence of the smallest traces of certain elements in terrestrial matter, but also, its6 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OE MEDICINE. authors think, opens out an entirely untrodden field of investigation, stretching far beyond the limits of the earth or even of our solar system, for the same method of analysis may be applied to the atmospheres of the sun and of the brighter fixed stars. Cooke.—Elements of Chemical Physics, pp. 739. Boston, j 860. Cooke's work forms a complete system of chemical physics. It begins with an account of the properties of matter, and of mechanical force. The properties of adhesion aud attraction are next examined, and, lastly, the effects of heat, &c, on matter. The author makes free use of mathe- matics in his descriptions and explanations. Fresenius.—A System of Instruction in Quantitative Chemical Analysis. 3d edition. Edited by J. Lloyd Bullock. In the preface to Fresenius's work on quantitative analysis, it is stated that the entire work has been recast, considerably simplified, and almost rewritten. New matter has been introduced, to the extent of one fourth of the whole volume. Many of the processes—the best then known, but rendered obsolete by the progress of science—have been replaced by others more certain, simple, and efficient, and this is particu- larly the case with the volumetrical processes. Prof. George E. Day.—Chemistry in its Relations to Physiology and Medicine. With five plates, containing numerous engraved illus- trations. Lond., i860, pp. 524. In this volume the author has entered much more fully into the physio- logical than into the chemical relations of the fluids and tissues of the body. The subject-matter of the volume is divided into three great heads : 1. The organic substrata of the animal body, or the proximate princi- ples entering into the composition of the solids and fluids of the organism. 2. The chemistry of the animal juices and tissues, which are classified into the five following groups :—(a) the digestive fluids; (b) the blood, and its allies, the chyle and the lymph; (c) the fluids connected with generation and development, including the seminal fluid, the milk, and the fluid of the egg; (d) the excretions of the mucous membranes and the skin, including mucus, the various sebaceous matters, and the sweat; (e) the urine. 3. The great zoo-chemical processes, including the metamorphoses of the tissues and the essential factors in animal metamorphoses, viz., albu- mens, fats, carbo-hydrates, and mineral constituents of the body. Bernard.—Lectures on Experimental Pathology and Operative Physio- logy. Delivered at the College of France during the Winter- session 1859-60. Medical Times and Gazette, January 7th, and fol- lowing numbers. In his third lecture, Bernard points out how the physiologist has it in his power, to produce at pleasure not only the symptoms of disease, but also the morbid changes themselves. Thus, for example, by directly acting on the pneumogastric nerve, cough, dyspnoea, and increased bron- chial secretion may be induced on the one hand, and, on the other, theMANUALS; GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. 7 anatomical lesions of pleurisy and pericarditis. So, again, by exciting the solar plexus, we can bring on diarrhoea and dysentery, together with the anatomical lesions which habitually accompany them. It is, therefore, a fact, that the perverted state of the nervous system gives rise to a great variety of diseases, not only of a general, but also of a local, character; deprive a muscle or a bone of its nervous supply, and the consequence will be fatty degeneration in the one case, and rickets in the other; in fact, if the nerves which enter the nutritive foramina of a bone be tied, very soon the cells of the lamellar structure increase in size, the vessels become more numerous, and all the phenomena of rickets follow in rapid succession; these results can even be brought about on a portion of a bone, without interfering with the remainder. There are some diseases, however, that it has hitherto been found im- possible to produce through the agency of the nervous system ; these are eruptive fevers, smallpox, measles, scarlatina, &c. But this most pro- bably arises from there existing in them a special virus, which we have not yet been able to produce. One point, certainly, has been established, viz., that we can produce not only morbid symptoms in animals by arti- ficial means, but even actual diseases, with their complete chain of results. Lecture VIII is devoted to the consideration of diseases arising from the vitiated development of cells. In this lecture, Bernard endeavours to prove that physiology furnishes, in every possible condition of health and disease, a key to the interpretation of all vital phenomena. He first poiuts out the importance of cellular evolution, and shows how it occurs in the adult as well as in the embryo. For example, in certain animals particular organs exist, disappear, and are subsequently reproduced. Thus, as Hunter observed, the sparrow's testicle, after being reduced to the smallest possible bulk during the winter, promptly returns to its primi- tive size in spring. Also, that in the pigeon a peculiar organ, no vestige of which exists in the bird's previous state, is produced during the latter period of incubation. The mucous membrane of the gizzard (crop ?) becomes vascular, and secretes a new substance, which serves for the nourishment of tbe young birds when newly hatched. Some diseases result from a deficiency of the normal evolution at a given point. Thus, if, as happens in inflammation, the epithelium of the intestine disappears, and is not regenerated, no obstacle is opposed to serous exudation from the vessels, no protecting surface resists the intro- duction of various poisons, and, lastly, there no longer exists the regulating power of absorption. In this manner innumerable diseases may be traced back to the suspended activity of normal evolution, as their primary cause. Diseases, once accidentally induced, have sometimes a strong tendency to maintain themselves in the economy. Thus, when insufficient or un- wholesome food has reduced to a consumptive state an animal pre- viously enjoying good health, its offspring often inherits the morbid dis- position which, in the parent, was entirely accidental. Bernard, at another part, says that experience has taught us that patients often die without any anatomical change being detected in their organs, and dogs are often seen during the course of physiological ex- periments to arrive at the very last stage of emaciation with the appetite unimpaired. They sink from sheer exhaustion, while the lacteals areltEl'ORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. s gorged with chyle ; nntl when opened, their bodies offer no trace of patho- logical alterations. The latent cause of tliis is that nutrition is nothing more than a peculiar mode of evolution, and when it ceases life is inevi- tably brought to a close. Lecture X is on the rational principles of therapeutics. When speak- ing of the"power nature enjoys of restoring health to the body without foreign assistance, Bernard says that, just as we see foreign bodies, when they have been accidentally lodged in the tissues, expelled by the natural process in inflammation and suppuration, it appears rational to suppose that, in internal diseases, the noxious principle is expelled with the per- spiration or some other similar excretion. When viewed in this light, the symptoms of disease invariably exhibit a curative tendency, more or less connected with the final end. Every change that occurs in the patient's state marks a new step in the contest; and when death super- venes, it must be supposed that the powers of nature have been overcome by the intensity of the morbid influence. Gaspard injected a decoction of putrid matter into the veins of animals, and succeeded in inducing intense febrile symptoms, with shivering, prostration, and abundant alvine dejections; and after a certain space of time, the animals recovered without undergoing any medical treatment. In other cases, the animals having perished, it was supposed, of course, that the vis medicatrix had been insufficient to conquer the foe. The views of the opposite party are, that nature is frequently blind, and requires to be directed in her opera- tions. In fractures, although she supplies the materials requisite for consolidating the broken shaft, if the limb be abandoned to her, the bones unite in an improper direction, and the patient is lamed for life. Inflam- mation of the natural ducts generally brings on stricture (urethra, oesophagus). It is therefore clear that nature may be praised or blamed for what she does, according to the light in which her operations are viewed. In some cases nature may be left to herself, but in others medi- cal interference is desirable. Dr. Samuel Wiuks (Guy's).—Some Observations with respect to a Philo- sophical Arrangement of Tumours and New Growths. Lond. Med. Rev., July, p. 4; Sept., p. 111 ; Dec, p. 260. 1st. What is meant by a new growth ? Wilts says, we make use of the term growth to express that constant reproduction of the tissues which we suppose is always in progress throughout the body; that as the various structures are in a state of perpetual decay, so are they as con- stantly being renewed, either from a plasma supplied by their blood- vessels, or by some more subtle method of growth from their own elements. This process is physiological; if, however, the plasma or exudation is in excess, & pathological process is in operation, and a tumour is the result. The difference in the two cases is this—in the former every structure produces its like; in the latter, the affinity is in a great measure lost be- tween the exudative material and the tissue from which it springs (e. g. brain, luug, liver, &c), and consequently development is impossible, except into structures of a simpler kind. If, however, the structure from which the exudation comes be itself of a simple kind, a developmental process may occur in it, and thus, for example, a tumour growing from bone may become osseous, from the medullary substance myeloid, from the uterus muscular, from the skin epithelial, and so on.MANUALS, UENEltAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. 9 2d. In the next place, Wilks states that the general opinion regarding the malignancy and henignancy of all tumours depending, in the one case, on a constitutional, in the other, on a local cause, is, in a great measure, cor- rect ; for we cannot but distinguish between a tumour arising, for example, from an injury in a healthy person and the case of manifold growths exist- ing in a patient whose ancestors were the subjects of the same disease. The fact, too, of the production in any new growth of elements similar to the healthy part whence it springs exhibits a healthy influence in operation; and if, from the complexity of the original organ (lung, liver, &c), the formation of a growth resembling it be not possible, then the production of the highest grade of tumour which is possible under the circumstances may be taken as evidence of the same fact. 3d. On the other hand, all morbid products which have no develop- mental power, but consist simply of cells, show a want of healthy influence, whether these cells arise in a complex organism or in a simple structure. Such are generally styled cancer, and, evidencing some vice in the consti- tution, are also called malignant. It will be seen that this opinion tends to the belief that a cell-growth is evidence of a malignant, a fibrous of an innocent,influence in operation, and that the production of the one rather than of the other depends on a constitutional cause. Our author thinks that at present it would be too much to assert this dogmatically. 4th. Wilks further adds that, although there is no characteristic cance.r- cell, if a new growth is composed of a mass of cells, each containing a large nucleus, with a distinct nucleolus, little hesitation need be felt in pronouncing it malignant; at the same time it must be remembered that, in the most virulent forms of cancer, it not unfrequently happens that no cells are present. When the cells in any tumour show a tendency to de- velop into fibre, so far that is an evidence of a corresponding innocent influence in operation, and, therefore, just in proportion as we find in any given tumour a crude formation of cells and nuclei, or a tendency to the formation of fibre, so can we pronounce upon its degree of malignancy or innocency. 5th. Nuclei surrounded by a cell-wall show a disposition to develop, and, consequently, a tumour consisting of them has one degree less of a morbid character than a tumour consisting merely of nuclei. And thus it is that well-marked, nucleated cells are always found in tumours of slow growth, and in those little disposed to spread. Again, it may be said that, should the cells in any growth tend to develop still more, and become pointed or angular in shape, they show that a still greater amount of healthy influence is in operation. In scirrhus we generally meet with such cells, and scirrhus, we know, is a much less virulent form of cancer than encephaloid. 6th. In the recurrent or malignant fibroid growth, the cells have a great tendency to grow into fibres, and the tumour has a less malignant character than if it consisted simply of cells without fibres. Recurrent fibroid may be said to hold an intermediate place between cancer and a simple, fibrous tumour, and might be designated semi-malignant. 7th. Between these three kinds—malignant, semi-malignant, and inno- cent tumours—there are many intermediate varieties, and we think the following table illustrates the author's views as regards the classification of new growths pretty clearly:10 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Character, Typical. Bone. Breast. Uterus and l'rostate. Skin. Pigment. Hollow organs. Innocent. . Simple fibrous. Exostosis. Enchoudroma. Myeloid. Adenoccle. Muscular tumour.. Papillary growths Sebaceous „ Pray „ Simple mekuosis. Villous growths. (True.) Semi-malig- nant . . Recurrent fibroid. Osteosarcoma. Recurrent fibroid. Recurrent fibroid. Epithelioma. Recurrent melanosis. Villous growths. Malignant . Carcinoma. Osteoid cancer. Cancer. Cunccr. Cancer. Cancerous melanosis. Villous cancer. Prof. ScHEREit.—On the Presence of Hypoxanthin, Xanthin, and Guanin in the Animal Body, and the Abundance of Leucin in the Pancreas. Liebig's Annal., vol. 112, p. 257. Schmidt, vol. 103, p. 274. Canst., vol. i, p. 220. G. Staedeler.—On Xanthin. Liebig's Annal., vol. 111, p. 28. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 273. Canst., vol. i, p. 220. Dr. P. Lorenz.—On the Chemical Composition of the Brain. Thesis. Wurzburg, 1859. Canst., vol. i, p. 220. In 1858 Scherer called attention to the fact that xanthin may be obtained from the urine, the muscles, the brain, the spleen, the pancreas, the liver, and the thymus gland; and, further, that in certain pathological conditions xanthin may even be abundantly found in the blood and in some of the abdominal glands. At the same time, Scherer stated that guanin was a normal constituent of the pancreas of the ox. In the pre- sent communication the author describes the different methods of obtain- ing these substances in a pure state, and gives the following elementary analysis of hypoxanthin: Carbon ..... 44.096 Hydrogen ..... 3-°77 Nitrogen ..... 41.163 Oxygen ..... 11.664 100.000 When pure hypoxanthin is mixed with a little nitric acid, and the mixture heated to dryness on a platinum spatula, a white, faintly yellowish substance remains, which, on being moistened with a drop of hydrated soda, assumes a lemon yellow, or perhaps even a pale-red colour. This substance does not, however, become purple-red on being heated. On the other hand, should xanthin also be present, which is generally the case, the nitric acid residue is of a light yellow colour, and becomes intensely red on the addition of hydrated soda. The application of heat changes the red to a fine, violet hue. With concentrated nitric acid, hypoxanthin is much more likely to be mistaken for xanthin, in consequence of the residue being yellow, and hydrated soda giving with it a reddish colour; the application of heat, however, solves the difficulty, for xanthin alone yields the purple tint. Scherer obtained hypoxanthin from muscle, but he failed to detect it in the pancreas. With a watery solution of a fragment of calculus composed of xanthm, Staedeler obtained the following reactions:—(1) neutral acetate of lead11 MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. produced no change; (2) basic acetate of lead gave a slight muddiness, and, after a time, an amorphous precipitate, consisting partly of xanthin; (;) nitrate of silver caused a delicate flocculent deposit to take place; (4) chloride of mercury induced a slight turbidity, which gradually subsided to a flocculent deposit; while (5) the acetate of copper caused the solution, after being gently heated, to become brown, and deposit a similarly coloured precipitate. If nitrate of silver be added to a nitric acid solution of xanthin, there is immediately formed a gelatinous precipitate, which disappears on the mixture being heated, but re-forms on its cooling. This deposit, after standing some time, is found to contain delicate, needle-shaped crystals. It would appear, from the before-mentioned investigations, that xanthin is one of the normal constituents of the animal body. Lorenz's researches were made in Scherer's laboratory, and we may briefly state that he obtained from twelve pounds and a half of the brain of the ox 0.053 gramme (less than a grain, == 0.821 grain) of pure xanthin, and 0.124 gramme (1.922 grain) of pure hypoxantbin. No trace of creatin, inosite, leucin, or lactic acid, was detected. J. Neukomm.—On the Presence of Leucin, Tyrosin, fyc, in the Human Body in Disease. Thesis. Zurich, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 4, Canst., vol, ii, p. 72. The researches of Neukomm were made in Staedeler's laboratory; the cases were those that died in Lebert's wards in the hospital, and the analysis was always begun within twenty-four hours after death. Scherer gives a very full report of Neukomm's researches, from which we have endeavoured to extract and condense as much as possible the more impor- tant matter: Case I. Typhus. Young man ; death in the third week. (a) . Liver. Contained much leucin, less tyrosin, a small quantity of xanthin, and uric acid. For sugar and urea, not tested. (b) . Spleen. Contained leucin and tyrosin in considerable quantity. (c) . Kidneys. Leucin and tyrosin in moderate quantity; inosite and uric acid could not be detected. (d) . Lungs. Tuberculous ; leucin and tyrosin in small quantity. (e) . Heart. Contained much leucin and creatin; uric acid and inosite not detected. Case V. Pleuritis, with cerebral symptoms. Male, set. 44; death after a few days' illness. Tbe liver was somewhat fatty, and contained abundance of leucin and tyrosin. Xanthin was also present in tolerable abundance. Case VI. Spinal paralysis, in consequence of vertebral abscess. Patient set. 23 ; delirium and coma. (a) . Lungs. Contained ammoniacal salts in abundance; leucin in moderate quantity ; no tyrosin ; some uric acid. (b) . Liver. Contained no ammonia ; leucin and tyrosin in quantity j sugar and urea not detected. (c) . Spleen. Contained no ammoniacal salts; leucin and tyrosin in abundance ; no sugar; no urea.KBPOBJX ON THE institutes of medicine. (d). Kidneys. Contained no ammonia; medium quantity of leucin and tyrosin. (<?). Heart. Evolved small quantity of ammonia; contained a little extractive matter, with leucin and creatin. Case VII. Death in consequence of insufficiency of food. Patient set. 44 ; during last 8ix months constant recurrence of profuse diarrhoea ; marasmus ; oedema ; death. (a). Liver. Tolerably firm ; contained leucin and tyrosin in quantity. (&). Kidneys. Pale ; neutral reaction ; much leucin and tyrosin ; a little inosite. (c) . Spleen. Enlarged; neutral; leucin and tyrosin present in quantity. (d) . Lungs. Leucin and tyrosin in abundance. (e) . Pancreas. Neutral; much leucin and tyrosin. Case VIII. Phthisis. Female, oet. 17. (a) . Brain. Besides leucin and creatin, contained a remarkable quantity of inosite. (b) . Heart. Contained leucin and creatin ; scarcely any inosite. (c) . Lungs. Tuberculous; ammoniacal salts in abundance; much leucin. (d) . Liver. Fatty; leucin-; some tyrosin ; a little urea. (e) . Spleen. Leucin and tyrosin present in moderate quantity. (/). Kidneys. Leucin in tolerable abundance ; not much tyrosin ; a small quantity of ammoniacal salts; some uric acid and xanthin. Case X. Acute articular rheumatism. (a) . Blood. Drawn two hours before death ; contained neither leucin nor tyrosin ; tolerable quantity of urea (0.01 percent.). (b) . Cerebral substance. Contained abundance of inosite, leucin, and creatin ; no urea. (c) . Liver. Much leucin and tyrosin ; urea detectable ; no sugar. Case XI. Heart disease. Disorganization of valves ; hypertrophy of left ventricle; albuminuria. The liver contained leucin, tyrosin, and uric acid, but neither urea nor sugar. Case XII. Syphilitic cachexia. Ascites, and oedema of the legs ; about seventeen pints of fluid removed by tapping; rapid dimi- nution of strength ; death on sixth day. (a). Fluid in abdomen. Alkaline; specific gravity, 1015 ; contained 1.13 per cent, of albumen, 0.3 per cent, of sugar, and a small quantity of uric acid ; no urea. (/;). Brain. A little creatin, leucin, and urea ; no distinct evidence of inosite. (c) . Heart. Contained creatin, urea, uric acid, and xanthin. (d) . Liver. Moderate quantity of leucin ; small quantity of tyrosin ; some uric acid ; no sugar. (e) . Spleen. Much leucin and tyrosin present; no uric acid, no inosite. (/). Kidneys. Contained no leucin or tyrosin ; much inosite; no urea. Case XIII. Cancerous cachexia. Male, net. 54; cancer of stomach. (a). Liver. Remarkably small; firm; contained neither leucin, tyrosin, nor urea.MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. 13 (&). Spleen. Small; contained a considerable quantity of leucin and tyrosin. Case XVII. Delirium tremens. Male, eet. 35 ; death on tenth day. (a) . Blood. Slightly alkaline; contained much uric acid, some xanthin, no inosite, but plenty of urea ; leucin (!); no sugar. (b) . Brain. Leucin, creatin, and isonite. (c) . Liver. Xanthin ; no uric acid ; some leucin ; a little sugar. (<7). Spleen. Leucin and tyrosin in moderate quantity ; no uric acid ; no inosite. (e) . Kidneys. Contained leucin and tyrosin in smaller quantity than in spleen ; traces of uric acid ; no inosite. (f) . Urine. Free from leucin, tyrosin, and inosite. Case XIX. Bright's disease. Male, set. 34 ; six months ill; albuminuria; oedema ; convulsions ; coma. («). Urine. During life contained a small quantity of inosite. (b) . Blood. Obtained during life by cupping in the neighbourhood of the kidneys ; contained abundance of urea, no leucin, and no sugar. (c) . Blood. After death, from the right side of the heart and vena cava; contained ammoniacal salts, urea in tolerable abun- dance; no leucin ; no inosite; some uric acid. (d) . Fluid from thorax. Slightly alkaline ; rich in urea and uric acid ; no inosite ; no leucin. (e) . Brain. Contained ammonia, creatin, and leucin; inosite in abundance ; some urea; no sugar. (/). Liver. Ammonia and sugar; little leucin; no tyrosin; some uric acid. (ff). Spleen. Leucin and tyrosin in quantity. (h) . Kidneys. Ammonia; urea; leucin in small quantity; tyrosin in still less quantity. (i) . Supra-renal capsules. Contained some leucin. Case XX. Diabetes mellitus. Male, set. 29; progress of disease during the latter part rapid. (a) . Kidneys. Sugar, 0.12 percent.; considerable quantity of leucin and tyrosin; inosite in very small quantity. (b) . Blood. Sugar, 0.09 per cent. 5 leucin and inosite not detected 5 uric acid in tolerable quantity. (c) . Liver. Contained an abundance of sugar; neither leucin nor tyrosin ; no inosite; xanthin, with traces of uric acid. (d) . Spleen. Leucin and tyrosin in abundance; sugar not detectable. (<?). Pancreas. Small quantity of sugar ; leucin and tyrosin. (/). Testicles. Sugar, 0.2 per cent; some leucin, and much chloride of sodium. (g) . Lungs. No sugar; leucin, and some tyrosin ; uric acid. (h) . Brain. No sugar; creatin; much inosite ; no leucin. (i) . Heart substance. No sugar ; no creatin; some leucin and inosite. (k). Muscles (calf of leg). No sugar; a little leucin; no inosite; some uric acid. The following were also tested for sugar:EJSPOB/I ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDTCINE. 11 (/). Aqueous humour and crystalline lens. Contained small quantity of sugar. (m). Fluid from the pericardium. Contained 0.17 per cent, of sugar. (n). Fluid from the abdomen. Was saccharine; contained abundance of ammoniacal salts. (0). Bile. Contained sugar. Careful observations were made on the urine in this case during the patient's life, and the more important of the results were— 1. On mixed diet, consisting of bread, potatoes, rice, cheese, meat, coffee, milk, and wine, continued during eight days, the man passed, on an average, 6268 c.c. (202.19 ozs0 water, and 500.25 grammes (j6.1 ozs.) sugar. Sp. gr. 1030—1040. 2. During seven days the patient was fed upon green vegetables instead of bread and potatoes, and had an increase of meat in place of the cheese. The daily average result was 4871 c.c. (157.1 ozs.) water, and 364.48 grammes (11.75 ozs-) sugar. Sp. gr. 1035—1040. 3. During other thirteen days the man continued taking the same food, except that he now received an additional four ounces of bread, lie also took bicarbonate of soda, beginning with two, and ending with six, drachms daily. The result now was, 5707 c.c. (184 ozs.) urine, 410.74 grammes (13.24 ozs.) sugar. Sp. gr. 1034—1040. In this last series of experiments the urea was also calculated by Liebig's method, and it gave a daily average of 59.75 grammes (1.92 oz.) 4. During other five days the patient received a still larger quantity of animal food, along with green vegetables, coffee, and about ten ounces of wine. He had also given to him from three to eight grains of reduced iron, three times a day. The result was that he passed, on an average, 3010 c.c. (97.09 ozs.) urine; 179.0 grammes (5.77 ozs.) sugar; 63.59 grammes (2.05 ozs.) urea. Sp. gr. 1034—1038. 15. During six days the man again received the same food, except having, in addition, four ounces of bread. The result was, 3308 c.c. (106.7 ozs-) urme; 204.36 grammes (6.58 ozs.) sugar. Sp. gr. 1035— io39- As there exists a close relation between inosite and sugar, Neukomm also tested the diabetic urine for the latter substance, and succeeded in finding some. The quantity, however, was not great. Prof. W. A. Guy.—Croonian Lectures on the Numerical Method, and its Application to the Science and Art of Medicine. Brit. Med. Journ., $fch May, pp. 331, 371, 409. 467> 553> 593- In the first lecture, Guy points out why he prefers the term numerical, method to that of statistical method. He says he knows of no use of numbers which claims to be peculiar to the 'Science of States,' and thinks that we ought to limit " the barbarous word statistics " to what it means in practice—a state science, built up by the aid of facts brought together in large numbers, and their results expressed in the terse, simple, and intelligible language of figures. The author says that the object of his lectures is to place the numerical method before us in the broadest and clearest light, and in order to do so lie begins by passing in brief review some of the principal sciences and15 JfANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. scientific arts, and endeavouring to point out, in respect of each in turn, what is the secret of the degree of excellence to -which it has attained, and how far that excellence can be traced to the facilities which it offers for the application of figures. The second lecture is devoted to the "logic of large numbers," and the third to the consideration of the extent to which the numerical method admits of being applied to the science of medicine, and in the art of heal- ing. Dr. B. W. Richardson.—On the Study of Disease by Synthesis. Lancet, 18th Feb., p. 169. 1. The author divides diseases into six great classes—parasitic; zymotic ; diseases the primary origin of which is in the nervous system ; diseases where, from disordered chemistry, a new growth is evolved out of the materials of the body (malignant diseases); diseases of simple degene- ration, i. e. of misplacement of the natural constituents of the organism ; and, lastly, inflammation. 1. He then mentions the production of endocarditis by the artificial introduction of lactic acid into the system of animals, and says that the results of his experiments taught him that Prout's hypothesis as to the origin of rheumatism is essentially correct. Some modification of the view may, in course of time, be required as to the nature of lactic acid, and its relationship to the economy; but the fact of the origin of the local disease, as the result of a specific acid poison, will, he says, ever remain. 3. In the next place, it may be that every local inflammation we know of (as due to internal causes) is the result of some similar agent, an agent not foreign to the body, and not hurtful to the system when present in the normal proportion (lactic acid is innocent as a natural constituent of muscle), but truly poisonous when, accumulating, it pervades the tissues to which it is foreign. Dr. Studley (Yorkville).— The Rationale of the Hot and Cold Stages and Periodical Exacerbation of Diseases. Amer. Med. Times, Sept., i860, p. 166. The author says, the consideration of heat and cold, as exhibited in the animal economy, involves the subject of calorification, and this again depends upon the circulation and the nervous system. No proposition in physiology seems more fully settled than the mutually modifying relation- ship of the nervous and the circulatory systems; again, none more clearly proven than that the waste of tissue must be compensated by repair, and from these phenomena he deduces the three following propositions : ist. That abnormal cold, as observed in the outset, and oftentimes during the course of different diseases, is a consequence of suspension of nutritive processes, depending on nervous influences, either centric or reflex. 2d. That abnormal heat, as observed in the same, is a consequence of exaggeration in the nutritive processes, depending on nervous influences, either centric or reflex. 3d. That periodic exacerbations of disease, by which the author means more or less stated recurrences of depression and reaction, are simply phenomena of textural exhaustion and resuscitation, waste and repair.BJBPOET ON THK rN8TCTu~TE8 OS MEDICINE. Ifi OSSEOUS SYSTEM, INCLUDING CARTILAGE AND TEETH. Olliek.—Experimental Researches on Osseous Grafts. Journ. de la Phys., January, i860, No. 9, p. 88. Olliek.—On the Artificial Production of Bone. Meeting, Brit. Asso- ciation, Oxford. Lancet, 7th July. Oilier has demonstrated by experiments on animals that—(a) the periosteum has the power of reproducing a bone removed artificially; also that (b) transplanted portions of periosteum will give rise to the production of bone, beneath the skin, among the muscles, or elsewhere, (c) If the transplanted portions of periosteum be in the form of strips and twisted round, the bone is secreted exactly in the same form,— spirally or oth crwise. (rf) If the membrane be removed from a bone, the bone dies, and suppuration ensues, (e) All osseous secretions from the periosteum have the true and normal characters of bone. The author concludes, from the result of his researches, that periosteum is the true secreting membrane of bone. Ollier.— On the Transplanting of Bone taken from Animals some time after Death. Compt. Bend., 16th January, i860, p. 163. 1. Portions of periosteum, or of the bone itself, taken from animals after death, can be successfully engrafted on another animal of the same species. 2. The vitality of these tissues does not become extinct with the ces- sation of respiration and circulation; transplanted into an analogous situation to what they previously occupied, they continue to live and increase to a certain extent, according to the laws of their normal development. 3. After being separated from a living animal, and exposed to the action of the air, they are still capable of being successfully engrafted, provided the atmosphere has been somewhat humid. This persistence of vitality in fragments of periosteum and bone is analogous to what has frequently been observed in other tissues. The end of the nose and portions of fingers have, for example, been successfully replaced some minutes, or even hours, after their accidental separation. I 4. Portions of periosteum taken from rabbits that have died from haemorrhage, or from section of the medulla oblongata, can be engrafted with success ten, thirty, sixty, and even ninety, minutes after the cessation of the heart's action. 5. Portions of bone may likewise be transplanted with a positive result after the animal has been dead ten, thirty, or sixty minutes. 6. The bones thus transplanted not only live, but even increase in size, in their new locality. 7. Bones freed from their periosteum cannot be engrafted. They act the part of foreign bodies. Boukguet.— On the ^Regeneration of Bone. Compt. Rend., August, i860, p. 208; Archiv. G<m. de Med., Sept., p. 378. The author has arrived at the following conclusions : I. The regeneration of long bones, after the section or the extirpation of a considerable portion of the diaphysis, is an incontestable fact.OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 17 2. The new bone has a tendency to remain shorter, less voluminous, and more irregular than the old one, but it retains the general form of the latter, and in time fulfils all its functions. }. In orde r that the result of the operations be properly appreciated, the bones must be examined long after the cure is completed. 4. The chain-saw can be successfully employed in cutting through the muscles and periosteum in deep-seated operations, when it is impossible to use other instruments. (. The phenomena attending the regeneration of bone are closely allied, if not actually identical, with those observed during the formation of callus. 6. The preservation of the periosteum is eminently advantageous, although not absolutely essential to the regeneration of bone. The sur- rounding soft parts are, in some cases, of themselves sufficient for the purpose. 7. In compound comminuted fractures, the splinters, loss of substance, and separation of the ends of the bones, are all capable of repair, if the detached fragments be removed without taking away the periosteum. Flourens.—New Experiments on the Formation of Callus. Compt. Rend., 5th March, i860, p. 451. Flourens describes two kinds of callus ; one he names periosteal callus (cal pcriostique), which is permanent, the other muscular callus (cal musculaire), which is merely temporary. In a fractured limb it may, he states, be observed— (1) That the nerves are always uninjured. (2) The vessels are frequently ruptured, and extravasation takes place. (3) The sheathed tendons are unchanged. (4) Free tendons may, according to the situation of the fracture, get mixed up with the periosteum, and undergo all the phases of ossification. (5) The muscles are the true seat of the callus exterior to the periosteum (muscular callus). The muscles at a distance from the fracture may be perfectly uninjured, while those that are in contact with the fractured part change their colour and consistence, become pale and hard, and lose their striae; the tissue becomes fibrous, cartilage-cells, and even true bone-corpuscles at last making their appearance. As the fracture is cured all this disappears, and the muscles regain their normal condition. (6) The sheath of the muscles becomes swollen, occasionally cartilaginous, sometimes ossified. (7) The detached fragments of periosteum unite with the lining membrane of the medullary canal, and at last close it up at the fractured ends. (8) The periosteum (not detached) swells, adheres to the muscles, is transformed into cartilage, and the cartilage again is trans- formed into bone. This is the true callus by which the fracture becomes cured. (9) The bones themselves do not increase in volume, either trans- versely or longitudinally; they remain perfectly passive; it is the periosteum alone which is active in the formation of the callus, whether it be that lining the medullary canal or surrounding the exterior of the bone. Mottet. —Observation on the Complete Reproduction of Bone. Letter addressed to Flourens. Gaz. Med. de Paris, 27th Oct., i860, p. 672. Mottet records in the above-mentioned letter the following case, as an 2REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 18 example of the complete reproduction of bone:—In the month of April, 1858, the Author was called upon to reduce a fracture of the leg in a man aged about thirty-two years. The man, endowed with an excellent con- stitution, had the limb fractured nearly twenty-four hours before he was seen by Mr. Mottet, who, on his arrival, found a compound comminuted fracture of the tibia. The muscles were torn across, and the ends of the bone, denuded of their periosteum, projected through the wound. There was great contusion and swelling of the limb, but with care the fracture was reduced. The soft parts, to some extent, in a short time sloughed away, and left the ends and fragments of the hone exposed. Several portions of bone afterwards came away, but, in spite of these untoward results, the fractured extremities gradually united, and by the end of fifteen months, not only had the wound in the soft parts healed, but even the place of the detached fragments of bone, some of which in- cluded the whole thickness of the shaft, had become supplied by a true osseous deposit, which, day by day, increased in solidity. From this observation, Mottet concludes that, if a proper amount of patience be exercised, many limbs may be preserved of the normal length, by a perfect reproduction of bone taking place as in the above case. E. Magttot.—Memoir on the Development, and Structure of the Dental Follicles in Man and other Mammalia. Compt. Rend., 37th Feb., i860, p. 424. Magttot describes the follicles as originating, during intra-uterine life, in the submucous tissue of the gum. The structure of this tissue is not different from that of submucous tissues in general. In the human foetus, the order in which the follicles of the temporary teeth appear is the following: 1. The follicle of the middle incisor of the lower jaw appears towards the sixtieth day after conception. 2. The follicle of the middle incisor of the upper jaw appears about the sixty-fifth day after conception. And, in intervals of a few days— 3. The lateral inferior incisor. 7. The inferior canine. 4. The lateral superior incisor. 8. The superior canine. 5. The first inferior molar. 9. The second inferior molar. 6. The first superior molar. 10. The second superior molar. In general, the follicles have all made their appearance by the eightieth day after conception. From the above, it seem3 that the follicles appear in the upper jaw somewhat later than in the lower—an opinion that has not hitherto been generally accepted. See also papers on the same subject by Robin and Magitot,' published in the 'Journ. de la Phys.,' Nos. for January and April, i860. Mr. Canton.—Arrest of Development in the Inferior Maxillary Bone. Lancet, Dec. 29th, p. 635. At a meeting of the Fatiiological Society, Mr. Canton related the clinical history of a girl (act. 16), in whom the development of the inferior maxillary bone had ceased at the inferior dental foramen ; the npper half of the perpendicular ramus was consequently wanting. Associated with this deformity was an absence of the bony portion ofOSSEOUS SYSTEM. 19 the auditory meatus, the glenoid cavity, and the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. The external ear was small, misshapen, and placed considerably in advance of its normal position. The corresponding side of the lower half of the face was much flattened, and the chin receded so ns to give to the countenance somewhat of an idiotic expression. LARCHER.—On the Intermaxillary Bones of Man. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 46. , Rousseau having lately presented a paper to the Academy, in which he states that all animals, with the exception of man, have intermaxillary bones, Larcher, in the above communication, points out the error of making man an exception to the rule. If, he says, a human foetus be examined sufficiently early, the existence of these bones can be easily demonstrated ; it will also be found that they very soon become united to the maxillaries, and leave no trace of their ever having had an independent existence. Rousseau makes some remarks on this communication at page 176 of the same volume, while at page 260 will be found some further observations on the same subject by M. Larcher. J. W. Hulke.—On the Tissue which intervenes betioeen Articular Cartilage and Bone. Med. Times and Gaz., 21st July, p. 69. Hullce, in exhibiting several specimens and drawings to the Pathological Society, said that his observations confirmed those of Messrs. Tomes and De Morgan. The thickness of the articular lamella varies from 1-28U1 of an inch to i-43ooth. Its upper border joining the cartilage has a notched outline, the depressions corresponding to the alveoli which receive the columns of cartilage-cells, the projections representing the portions between neighbouring alveoli. Its deep-bounding line is very sinuous, and off-shoots of the lamella sink so deeply into the true bony tissue, that in vertical sections small portions are occasionally found completely insulated. The component elements of the lamella are a matrix, and certain black objects of considerable size, occurring singly or grouped, imbedded in it. The matrix is either glassy or granular, the granules are fine or coarse, and frequently crowded so as to form alternating strata of light and dark bands. The addition of dilute hydrochloric acid to a thin section causes effervescence, the granules disappear, the matrix becomes clear and regains the natural elasticity of articular cartilage; at the same time it becomes apparent that the large, black objects in the matrix are cartilage-corpuscles enclosing clusters of secondary cells. By soaking in ether these cells and their nuclei are rendered very conspicuous. Turpen- tine, glycerine, and some other highly refracting fluids, also bring the cells into view. From these, he says, it appears that the articular lamella is only a layer of cartilage retaining its anatomical characters, but hardened by impregnation with earthy matter, and it might be expected that before its petrifaction it would be liable to those changes which are common to the matrix of other hyaline cartilages. A. FniEDLEBEN.—Contributions to the Chemical Constitution of Carti- laginous Tissue. Siebold's u. Kolliker's Zeitschr. f. Wissensch. Zool., vol. x, p. 20. Canst., vol. i, p. 73. The author finds that the reaction of the extract obtained from the cartilage which precedes bone-formation, differs from that of true bone-20 It F.POKT ON THE IXSTITUTKS OK MKDXCINK. cartilage solely because its mode of preparation is different. If tlie former cartilage be, as usual, boiled in distilled water, the solution yields the reaction of cbondrin, whereas the reaction of glutin is obtained from an aqueous solution of the extract separated from bone-cartilage by dilute muriatic acid. But if, on the other hand, hyaline cartilage be left for some days in weak muriatic acid, its extract yields no longer chondrin. but glutin. An ossified costal cartilage, treated in a similar manner with muriatic acid, likewise yields glutin. G. Varnell, M.R.C.V.S.—A Peculiar and Unusual Disease of the Osseous Tissue in the Horse; resembling, in many of its charac- teristics, Mollities Ostium, Rhachitis, Osteoporosis, atid Fatty Dege- neration of Bone. pp.24. Reprinted from the Veterinarian, i860. Dr. IIahley.—On the same Peculiar Disease. Trans. Path. Soc, p. 308. MUSCULAB, SYSTEM. Matteucci. — On the Electrical Phenomena which accompany Muscular Contraction. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 39, p. 344. Dr. Radcliffe.—An Inquiry into the Muscular Movements resulting from the Action of a Galvanic Current upon Nerve. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 39, p. 347. Matteucci says that, during the contraction of a frog's muscle, there is an instantaneous electrical discbarge, which takes a contrary direction to that of the relaxed gastrocnemius, and in general to that of the current, which is found on applying the extremities of the galvanometer to the extremities of the limbs of a frog. By keeping the muscle in a state of tetanic contraction, it is found that the electrical phenomenon accom- panying contraction becomes gradually less intense as the contractions are more and more feeble. Matteucci relates some experiments, and then adds—In all of them, the moment that the thigh begins to contract, the needle moves in a constant direction, the deviation being greater or less according to the force of the contraction, and indicates a descending discharge, which traverses the thigh in the direction of the ramification of the nerves, and in a contrary direction to the current of the gas- trocnemius. As the abstract of Radcliffe's paper on the muscular movements resulting from the action of the galvanic current upon nerve occupies no less than twelve pages of the 'Proceedings,' we can only quote a few remarks from the latter portion of it. If, says the author, contraction attends upon the beginning of the direct current, because this current is found to favour contraction, it is not difficult to find a reason which will explain in some degree, not only why, in the period of double contraction, the strongest contraction is at the beginning of the direct current, but also why, in the first part of the period—that of single contraction— con- traction should continue to attend upon the direct current after it has ceased to attend upon the inverse current. Nor are the apparent irregu- larities in contraction, he thinks, entirely inexplicable ; for it may be that these seeming irregularities are nothing more than the natural consequence of the changes which at this time have taken place, and are taking place, in the direction of the nerve-current.MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 21 J. BliCLAKP.—On the Heat produced during Muscular Contraction. Compt. Rend., 5th March, i860, p. 471. It is generally admitted that a certain amount of heat is generated in the substance of the muscles at the moment of their contraction. Be'clard now adds, that there are two different kinds of muscular action, and that they develop different quantities of heat. 1. When the muscular contraction is merely sufficient to maintain in equilibrium a resistance which it does not overcome. This the author names "contraction statique." 2. When the muscular action is so powerful as to overcome the resistance, and give rise to visible results, as, for example, when the mus- cles of the arm move a weight. This the author names "contraction dynamique." From the results of a great number of experiments made upon himself, he concludes that the " contraction statique" develops a much greater amount of heat than the " contraction dynamique." Dr. M. Foster.—On the Effects produced by Freezing on the Physiolo- gical Properties of Muscles. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, p. 523. Tbe conclusions Foster came to were : 1. Completely frozen muscles are not irritable to the strongest galvanic stimulus we possess. 2. Muscles which have been frozen for a short time only (five or ten minutes at the longest) may regain their irritability on being thawed. 3. Muscles which have been frozen for more than ten minutes never regain their irritability. 4. The loss of irritability seems to be due more to the occurrence of freezing than to any mere fall of temperature. For, the author says, although the irritability diminishes with the fall of temperature, yet the great loss and final extinction takes place only when the tissue itself is frozen. 5. A muscle may be in great part frozen, and yet capable of producing a movement when stimulated by the contraction of the unfrozen part. 6. The passage into the frozen condition is accompanied by no contraction. 7. Frogs' limbs freeze exactly in the same position as they were pre- viously maintaining. 8. The reaction of frozen muscle, as indicated by litmus paper, is neutral or faintly alkaline, thus, the author says, differing from recently dead muscles. 9. There is no exact relation between the duration of the frozen state and the duration and amount of the revived irritability. A muscle frozen three minutes does not regain twice as much irritability, or remain twice as long irritable, as one frozen six minutes. 10. Muscles once frozen, however "kindly" treated, eventually die sooner than those left untouched. 11. In muscles which never regain their irritability, the act of thawing is accompanied by the onset of a peculiar rigor, differing from " rigor mortis," and resembling "rigor caloris " in being an active contraction, i.e. in producing a movement. This contraction is never seen in muscles destined to regain their irritability.EBPOET ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 22 12. The contraction continues nf'ter the production of the movement, as n peculiar rigidity, whioh vanishes only when the softening from de- composition becomes apparent. The effect of a low temperature on the frog's heart, Foster says, is very peculiar. There is a great diminution in the rate of rhythm, and very marked increase in the duration of each systole, so that sometimes the heart is frozen in a tetanic beat, as it were. The author never saw a frozen heart resume its beat when thawed, but often one part of the ventricle slill beating while another part was hard-frozen. Nerves, like muscles, lose their excitability when frozen, and regain it on being thawed, if they have not been frozen too long. \V. Kuhne.—On the Coagulable Substance of Muscle. Ber. der Berl. Akad. 1859, p. 493. Cnnst., vol. i, p. 220. In this communication Kuhne narrates many interesting facts regarding the coagulable substance of muscle, which have a direct bearing on the question of the origin of rigor mortis. In warm-blooded animals, the rigidity of the muscles begins very soon after death; even before they have entirely lost their irritability a stiffening may be observed. In cold-blooded animals, on the other hand, not only does the rigor mortis not commence for a con- siderable time after the circulation has entirely ceased, but it is even delayed until muscular irritability has totally disappeared. In the latter species of animals, it has even beeu observed that a certain period of time elapses between the departure of irritability and the arrival of rigor mortis. On a former occasion the author showed that rigor mortis was not an inherent property of muscular fibre, for by means of a solution of sugar, or of common salt, he was able to extract from the muscle the coagulable material, and that, after extraction, this substance would not uufrequently spontaneously coagulate in the vessel in which it was placed. Kuhne now adds, that the fluid obtained from the muscles of warm-blooded animals coagulates very quickly, while that obtained from the muscles of the frog remains liquid for a considerable length of time. At a temperature between o° and $° C, the latter substance may be kept for more than a week in a liquid state, and if at the end of this time it be removed to a room of a temperature above 15° C, it rapidly coagulates. This agrees with the well-known fact, that moderate heat hastens the advent of rigor mortis. At a temperature of 400 C, the fluid expressed from frogs' muscles immediately coagulates, and the muscles themselves (not those from which the fluid has been extracted) at the same tempera- ture instantly become rigid. The acid reaction of the muscle is observable as soon as rigor mortis sets in ; before that, the muscles are alkaline or neutral. The fluid, on the other hand, retains (if filtered) its alkaline reac- tion after it is coagulated, and does not become acid until it has been exposed lor a considerable time to the air. It was formerly thought that rigor mortis could be removed, and irrita- bility restored to all muscles, by injecting arterial blood into the muscles of the limb. Kuhne, however, shows that this is only true as regards warm- blooded animals. _ W. KuilNE.— On the Chemical Irritation of the Nerves and Muscles. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, pp. 406, 476. Gaz. Med., No. 11, p. 191. Mon. des II6p., March, 1859, No. 31, p. 248.23 MUSCULAR SYSTEM. W. KUHNB.—On Direct and Indirect Irritation of Muscles by means of Chemical Reagents. Reicbert's u. Du Bois' Archiv. f. Anat. u. Phys., 1859, p. 213. W. KiiiiNE.—On Muscular Twitchings Independent of the Nerves. Ib., p. 314. W. KiiiiNE.—On " Idiomuscular " Contractions. Ib., p. 418. Canst., pp. 74, 75, and 76. The researches of Kiihne were cbiefly designed to determine the ques- tion of the independence of muscular irritability on nervous influence. The muscle which the author commonly employed was the sartorius of the frog, and it was usually to an upper transverse section that the irritants were applied. It was in general found that none but concentrated acids excited twitchings when brought in contact with the nerve, while dilute solutions, containing but one half or even one tenth per cent., for example, of muriatic acid, affected the muscular mass. Nitric acid acts similarly ; and if one sartorius be placed in water, and a second in nitric acid diluted to less than one tenth per cent., the second muscle will soon be found to be the more susceptible of the electric current. The action of alkalies, such as potash and soda, differs less than that of acids upon nerve and muscle. The cut surface of the sartorius muscle responds to the vapour of ammonia, although this agent has no power upon the nerve. Lime-water acts only on the muscle. A solution of sulphate of copper, containing 4 per cent, of the salt, and solutions of the chloride of sodium or calcium far too weak to act through the nerve, still elicit contractions when directly applied to the muscular substance. Chloride of iron and acetate of lead act upon the latter alone. Pretty strong acetic acid is required to excite the nerve, whilst the vapours merely, escaping from it at an ordinary temperature, are sufficient to affect the muscle. Syrupy lactic acid only excites the nerve, but if diluted so as to penetrate the muscle, the latter in its turn becomes the more sensitive. Creosote acts vigorously upon the nerve, weakly on the muscle. Alcohol has similar, ether and chloroform converse, effects, although it must be admitted that all three are rather feeble excitants. Fatty oils and oil of turpentine soon destroy irritability. When a nerve is dipped in glycerine, tetanic spasms are excited, which continue till vitality ceases. Undiluted glycerine has no effect upon muscular substance, but, when diluted, glycerine becomes strongly irritant thereof. Bile causes contraction in the dead, and excites twitchings in the living muscles. After the nerves are paralysed by the constant current, the muscle is still acted on by muriatic acid of different strengths, precisely as if the nerves were unaffected. The same result is obtained from potash, soda, ammonia, and lime-water. Even the feeble twitchings produced by the simple immersion of a muscle in water are due to the irritability of the muscular substance; for they continue, notwithstanding the paralysis of the nerve by the current. Kuiine regards the contractile substance of muscle as a fluid. It maybe assumed, says our author, that in producing "idiomuscular" contraction, one segment of the active nerve or muscle serves as an exci- tant to the adjoining segments, and the tendency to propagate the muscular contractions becomes less and less in proportion as the excitability of the nerves and muscles diminishes.KBPOUT ON THE INSTITUTES Of MEDICINE, SOHELSKa (mid Wundt).—On the Chemical Irritants of Muscle. Cunst., vol. i, p. 72. W. Wundt.— On the Course of " Idiomuscular" Contraction. Anitl. 13er. d. deutschen Nnturf. u. Aerztc. Carlsruhe, 1859, p. 200. Kiihne's researches induced these authors to go over a great part of the same ground. They combat the assertion that there are chemical irritants to which the muscle, and others to which the nerve, alone replies. All chemical excitants, they say, have always essentially the same action upon muscle and nerve, the only exceptions to this rule being corrosive sublimate, and occasionally creasote ; and even these exceptions are explicable with- out the assumption of independent irritability of muscular substance— an hypothesis which is contradicted, according to these authors, by the circumstance that the twitching occasioned by directly exciting the mus- cular substance is invariably more marked the nearer the point acted upon is to the entry of the nerve. Kolliker.—On Idiomuscular Contractions. Amtl. Ber. d. deutschen Naturf. u. Aerzte. Carlsruhe, 1859, P- 2°2- Canst., vol. i, p. 76. Kolliker found that the muscles of frogs poisoned with woorara con- tract when common salt is sprinkled upon them, just as sound muscles do. This is likewise the case when the animals are poisoned with small doses of conia, whereas when large doses are employed, and paralysis and rigidity of the muscles and of the heart supervene, the chloride may prove inactive, whilst the electric current still continues to act, though feebly. E. Eaivre.—Experiments on the Abolition, after Death, of the Properties of the Nerves and Muscles of Frogs. Biblioth. Univers. de Geneve. Nouv. Per., vol. iv, p. 284. Canst., vol. i, p. 77. The author finds that the irritability of frogs' nerves is lessened, or absolutely gone, in from seven to twenty hours after death, whereas the muscular contractility has vastly increased ; and when the latter reaches its maximum, the nerve is no longer impressionable. The geutlest irritation, which was hitherto inoperative, now induces the liveliest contractions; and this state lasts several hours, when sensibility again gradually diminishes, and at length disappears as rigor mortis sets in. The maximum of muscular contractility occurs sooner when the motor nerve has been divided during life. Everything that weakens the nervous influence seems to enhance the muscular power. W. Turner, M.B.—Remarks on the Musculus Kerato-Cricoideus, a Muscle of the Larynx (Mer/cel's Muscle). Ed. Med. Jour., Feb., i860, p. 744. Merkel (in 1857) described a muscular slip occasionally extending be- tween the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage and the posterior margin of the inferior cornu of the thyroid, and thus forming one of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx. Turner searched for this muscle in thirty two cases, and his dissections revealed it in seven, being in the ratio of 218 per cent. In four of these it was on the right side only, in two on the left, and in one on both sides. The statement of Merkel, that the muscle exists only on one side, is therefore not absolutely correct. The muscle is not confined to the larynx of one sex; Turner found it in females as well as in males, but more frequently in the latter. It exhibitsMUSCULAR SYSTEM. considerable differences in breadth, being from a mere thread to the one eighth of an inch broad. Its function has not been ascertained. Cir. Aeby.—The Muscles of the Human and Mammalian Forearm and Hand. Siebold's u. Kb'lliker's Zeitschr. f. Wissensch. Zool., vol. x, p. 34. Canst., vol. i, p. 79. Proceeding upon the assumption that the functional utility of a muscle is proportional to its weight, the author found in the course of his inquiries that the muscles which move the forearm always preponderate considerably over those destined for the hand. In the mole, which uses its forearm much more than its hand, 76 per cent, of the whole muscles is devoted to the movementof the forearm. In the guinea-pig, the per-centage is 75 ; in the cat, only 61. The squirrel, the monkey, and even man, show a still smaller proportion ; whilst in the bat it is but 38, the lowest of all. It is generally found that the flexors of the forearm increase in weight, the less the limb has to do with the support of the body ; they do not, in any quadruped, equal the weight of the extensors; in man, on the other hand, they actually exceed them. The greater functional development of the hand leads to a corresponding increase in the weight of the muscles of the fingers, as compared with those attached to the wrist. In the mole, and still more in the pig, the extensors strikingly preponderate over the flexors of the wrist. With regard to the muscles of the fingers, the reverse is the case, in all animals except the mole. In this creature, the extensors of the hand are twice as active as in other animals, and their weight is more than double that of the flexors. In very young children, the muscles moving the forearm are considerably lighter than those moving the hand ; this al- most entirely arises from the deficient development of the flexors. The flexors of the wrist are likewise but slightly developed. G. H. Meyer— The Human Hand. Akad. Vortrag, Zurich, 1859, 8vo> Jobert de Lamballe.—On Involuntary Rhythmical Muscular Contraction and Voluntary Muscular Action. Rhythmical Involuntary Con- traction of the Right Peroneus Brevis. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii. Gaz. Hebd., 1859, No. 17, April, p. 266. Canst., vol. i, p. 76. A girl, aged 14, who had been subject for six years to twitchings of the peroneus brevis, was able to produce thereby similar sounds to those of vvhich spirit-rappers avail themselves. The sound could be produced at all times and in all attitudes. Velpeau availed himself of the occasion to remark, that other tendons, those, for example, of the tibialis posticus, flexor pollicis pedis longus, and the long head of the biceps brachii, may produce similar phenomena, after relaxation or tearing of the adjoining fibrous tissues. Cloquet also stated, that he knew a girl who could cause a pretty loud crack by torsion of the lumbar portion of the spinal column. C. Baierlacher.—Peculiar Muscidar Movements in the Human Subject Ilenle u. Pf.'s. Zeitsch., vol. viii, p. 263, i860. For some years past, Baierlacher has noticed that, on percussin"- very emaciated individuals over the latissimus dorsi, a peculiar muscular contraction follows each blow. On a smart tap being given to the muscle, a hollow is observed, on each side of which rises up a waveREPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDIUM:. 26 which is immediately transmitted to the end of the muscle, and again returned to the spot from whence it set out. Tbe hollow at the same time disappears. A similar muscular movement may be obtained from nearly all the large muscles of the body ; and it is found that, the oftener the experiment is repeated on the same muscle, the more indistinct does the phenomenon become. Prof. Jonathan Osborne.—On some Actions performed by Voluntary Muscles ivhich by habit become Involuntary ; with Practical Appli- cations. Dub. Quart. Rev., Nov., p. 285. From this paper we extract the following remarks on the actions connected with respiration. The inspiratory muscles have the structure of voluntary muscles, and during our waking hours are completely under the control of the will. But there is a limit beyond which our dominion over them ceases. Thus, during sleep, or during epileptic seizures, their action continues without any effort on the part of the individual; and even when consciousness remains perfect, his power over the respiratory muscles is limited. When, for example, a person tries to cease breathing altogether, he finds it to be an impossibility. The average number of respirations in health is about 18 per minute, or one fourth of the number of pulsations of the heart. In violent mental emotions, the heart and the respiratory muscles are both equally thrown into excessive action ; in" such cases, the heaving of the chest, or panting, is much more remarkable in women than in men, from the respiration in the former being carried on more by the intercostal muscles and less by the diaphragm than in men. On the other hand, the proportion of respirations is greatly di- minished below the natural standard, when the mind is absorbed in anxious or sad reflections. In such cases, the individual breathes not ouly with such long intervals, but with such imperfect inspirations, that he is forced every now and then to recollect himself, and to compensate for the deficiency by making a full inspiration. By doing this, he is enabled to forward the passage of the blood through the pulmonary vessels, and relieve the turgescence of the right cavities of the heart. This, the author says, is the true explanation of the kind of oppression which prompts us to relieve ourselves by what is usually called a sigh. Dr. Valentiner.— On the Presence of Inosite in the Muscles of Drunkards. 35th Ber. d. schles. Geselch. ; Froriep's Notiz., vol. i, p. iia. Schmidt, vol. 103, p. 158.; and Canst, vol. ii, p. 72. Valentiner found—(1) a large quantity of inosite in the voluntary muscles of eight drunkards; (2) in none of the cases did he find any inosite in the heart, (3) or in the urine ; (4) in one case, only a little was detected in the brain ; (5) the quantity of inosite in the voluntary muscles (the pectoral were those examined) was nearly the same in all the cases ; (6) the eight individuals had suffered from delirium tremens ; (7) the age or concomitant diseases did not seem to affect the quantity of inosite ; (8) .the presence of so much inosite in the voluntary muscles appears to be characteristic of the drunkard's habit of body, for in twenty-one other cases (various diseases) there was either none at all or only traces of inosite to be found.VASCULAR SYSTEM. 27 Prof Jvc. MoLT-scnoTl.—Micro-chemical Procedure for the Examination of Smooth Muscle. Wien. med. Wochenschr., 48, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 12. 1 j j Molescliott finds that smooth muscle is best prepared and preserved for microscopical purposes by leaving it for eight days in a solution composed of one part of strong acetic acid, one part of alcohol, and two parts of distilled water, and afterwards keeping it in a very feeble solution of acetic acid, namely, one part of acid to twenty-five of alcohol and fifty of water. If the object be not so much to show the nuclei as to separate the fibres, the author recommends a weak solution of potash to be used instead of the acid, for it appears that the cell-wall is least acted upon by the alkali, the nucleus by the acid. VASCULAR SYSTEM. Dr. Power.—Anatomy of the Arteries of the Human Body, Descriptive and Surgical; ivith the Anatomy of the Heart. Illustrated by B. W. Richardson, F.R.C.S.I. i2mo. pp. 374, i860. Dr. Suoojjet.—On the Circulation of the Blood in the Limbs and in the Head of Man. Pamphlet, pp. 55. Paris, i860. James Pettigrew.—On the Arrangement of the Muscular Fibres of the Ventncular Portion of the Heart of the Mammal. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 39, p. 433. ' Pettigrew believes the left ventricle to be the typical one; and by exercising a little care, he was able to unwind, as it were, the muscular substance, and so to separate its walls into several layers, each of which is characterised by a difference in direction. Seven layers, at least, can, he says, be shown by dissection ; but he thinks there are in reality nine, viz., four external, the fifth or central, and four internal, the internal being continuous with the external fibres at the apex, and the fibres constituting the several external layers being continuous with correspond- ing internal layers likewise at the base. As regards the direction of the fibres, the author remarks that there is a gradational sequence, the first layer being more vertical in direction than the second, the second than the third, the third than the fourth, and the fourth than the fifth ; the fibres constituting the latter layer, being- transverse, run at nearly right angles to those of the first layer. The order of things is reversed in the internal layers, viz., six, seven, eight, and nine gradually return to the vertical in an opposite direction and inverse order. Pettigrew compares the arrangement of the fibres i;i the layers to that of the double conical spiral, and points out how the continuity of the external and internal fibres at the apex can, in a similar manner, be explained. It seems, therefore, that the fibres do not form simple loops pointing towards the apex, as generally supposed, but twisted, continuous loops, pointing alike to apex and base. Pettigrew next remarks tbat the musculi papillares are formed from the external fibres which pass into the interior of the ventricle in two different bundles. When speaking of the right ventricle, he says that the easiest way to view it is in the light of a segment of the left one, which, as was before said, he looks upon as the " typical" ventricle. In corroboration of this opinion, the author refers to the shape of the right and left11BP0ET ON THE INSTITDTB6 01' MEDICINE. ventricular cavities, as shown by casts of their interior. The left always yields a beautiful and perfect, right-handed, conical screw, while the cast of the right ventricle, although it has the same twist, represents only an incomplete portion. Dr. M. FOSTEE.— Contributions to the Theory of Cardiac Inhibition. Meeting of Brit. Association at Oxford. Lancet, 7th July. Foster details a series of experiments illustrating the action of galvanic currents of different strengths upon the contraction of the heart, through the agency of the pneumogastric nerves. His experiments were made chiefly on the snail, and the results prove the inhibitory action of these nerves upon the heart. Dr. G. B. HALPOBD.—On the Action and Sounds of the Heart. A Physiological Essay, pp. 47. Hal ford concludes, from his experiments, that both sounds of the heart are caused by the vibrations of the valves produced by the back- ward pressure of the blood, first against the auriculo-ventricular (first sound), and, secondly, against the ventriculo-arterial valves (second sound). The bruit musculaire is, in his opinion, nothing more than the vibrations of the compressed air in the tube of the stethoscope, or in the external auditory meatus, produced by the impulsion of the instrument against the ear. The striking of the heart's apex against the ribs, which has been given as the cause of the first sound, is, he thinks, " no cause at all," while the theory of the sounds being produced by the passage of the blood through the heart is even less satisfactory. In conclusion, Halford says that, when the first sound is heard, the ventricles contract, and the auriculo-ventricular valves are made tense, and completely separate the cavities of the ventricles from the auricles; the te?ision of these valves produces the first sound, When the second sound is heard, the ventricular systole has ceased ; the aorta and pulmonary artery have reacted upon their contents ; the cavities of the ventricles are separated from the systemic and pulmonary systems by the closure of the semi- lunar valves, the tension of which produces this sound. On the Action of the Heart, and the Signification of its Throb. Several letters from different gentlemen will be found on this subject in the Lancet of the 28th of July, 4th, nth, and 18th of August. On the Sounds of the Heart.—Letter by Dr. Maekham. Med. Times and Gazette, Nov. 17th, p. 487. Prof. J. Budge.—Remarks on the Experiments of Professor V. TT'ittich, on the Dependence of the Rhythmical Movements of the Heart upon the Cardiac Ganglia. Deutsche Klinik, No. 3, p. 28. TT'ittich in reply, ib., No 16. Budge's rejoinder, No. 26, p. 264. Einbhodt.— On Irritation of the Heart, and its Relations to the Pressure of the Blood. Sitz.-ber. d. Wien. Akad., vol. xxviii, 1859, p. 345. Canst., vol. i, p. 105. From experiments on dogs and rabbits made by the author, under Ludwig's guidance, it appears—(1) that the heart is extraordinarily sen- sitive to electricity. (2) The number of pulsations increases and the lateral pressure in the carotid artery diminishes in proportion to the dura-VASCULAR SYSTEM. 29 Won and intensity of the electric current. (3) Death readily occurs from electric excitement of the heart's substance. It is brought about by the diminished pressure and velocity of the blood. (4) Previous irritation of the vagus lessens the effects of direct excitement on the heart. (5) If both nerve and heart be simultaneously galvanized, the result lies midway between those of the separate irritations. (6) When the heart is excited after the vagi, the pulse is less accelerated, and the pressure of blood less diminished. (7) Tremor of the heart-substance remains after direct irritation, but can be arrested by galvanizing the vagus. (8) The con- ditions induced by direct irritation of the heart and excitement of the vagus respectively are perfectly opposed to each other in relation to cardiac movements. (9) With a continuous electric current, the pulse quickens, and the lateral pressure in the carotid increases with the inten- sification of the current. (10) At length it attains a maximum, from which it again diminishes as the intensity of the current increases, till at last the heart pauses in diastole, and death ensues. (11) Genuine teta- nus of the heart occiu-s neither with the continuous nor with the inter- rupted current. Einbrodt.— On the Influence of the Vagi on the Heart's Movements in Birds, lleichert's u. Du Bois's Arch., 1859. Canst., vol. i, p. 105. In birds, as in quadrupeds, the heart's action is stopped when galvanism is applied to the vagus. The pause lasts longer when both vagi are acted upon, and is in some measure proportional to the intensity of the electric current. The heart's pause generally lasts from five to ten seconds, very rarely half a minute. After the galvanized part of the nerve has become too much injured any longer to convey the stimulus, by shifting the poles of the battery a little lower down the effects on the heart are immediately renewed. On the renewal of the heart's action during the galvanism, the pul- sations are at first few and feeble, they then slowly increase in number and in strength, but never become so frequent as normal. Division of one or both vagi in birds increases the frequency of the pulse, but less so than in mammalia. Bernard.—Vaso-motor Influence of the Sympathetic Nerve. La Clin. Europ., 1859, No. 29, p. 282. When a manometer was inserted into the right coronary artery of the lip of a horse, and a second instrument put into the left vessel of the same animal, both instruments showed a pressure of 160 to 180 mm. The pressure of the blood increased 40 mm. on the left side after division of the corresponding cervical sympathetic. In the coronary veins of the lips the instruments showed a pressure of 30 to 40 mm., which increased to 50 or 60 after section of the sympathetic, while the pressure a°-ain fell 20 mm. when the nerve was galvanized. As other effects of the division of the nerve, were noticed pulsation of the veins and brighter colour of the venous blood. Mierswa.—On the Mechanism of the Semilunar Valves. Schmidt, vol. 104, p. 158. The author adopted the method of Eiidinger, and obtained similar results. His conclusions are—(1) That the semilunar valves are not applied against the walls of the sinuses of Valsalva during the systole.REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 30 (2) That the blood in the sinus of Valsalva plays an important part in their closure during the diastole. (3) That but a minimum of blood is driven back into the ventricle by the elasticity of the arterial walls. (4) As the valves are always separated by a certain quantity of blood from the walls of the sinuses, they can never close the coronary arteries. A. C. J. Biiessleii.— The Cardiac Diastole. Utrecht, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 35. This dissertation after treating of the recent views of muscular elasti- city and contractility, and applying them to the heart, gives the result of experiments made on the dead hearts of men, quadrupeds, and birds, to learn the effects of the penetration of liquids into the coronary arteries upon the size of the ventricular cavities. A manometer placed in the pulmonary vein indicated that the filling of the coronary arteries expands the walls of the heart, and increases the size of its ventricular cavities. J. M. Cohen.—The Myodynamics of the Heart and Blood-vessels. Berlin, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 34. Cohen conceives that the heart's transverse and longitudinal fibres contract by turns, like the antagonistic voluntary muscles, and that the contraction of the one set causes the relaxation of the other. The ven- tricular systole he believes to be the rhythmical contraction of the trans- verse fibres, from which action he draws, with the aid of his ideas regarding antagonism, various conclusions as to the action of the valves. He defends the view that the heart's impulse occurs during the diastole. Gerhardt.—On the Heart's Movements. Verhandlung d. phys. mcd. Ges. zu Wurzb., vol. ix, parts 2 & 3. Canst., vol. 1, p. 36. Gerhardt's observations were made on a lad, aged eighteen, in whom an intestinal fistula allowed the point of the finger to penetrate as far as the diaphragm and apex of the heart. The heart was felt to move during the systole to the left and downwards while the patient was lying on his left side and breathing deeply. A distinct descent of the margin of the right ventricle was perceived during sleep, and even during calm inspiration. The lower portion of the heart and corresponding part of the diaphragm shifted downwards and to the right when the patient lay on his right side; to the left and upwards when he turned over to the left side. B. Vierorht.—The Laio of Dependence of the Mean Periods of Circu- lation upon the Mean Rates of Pulse in different Animals, based upon Experiments on Mammals and Birds. Wunderlich's Archiv, 1858, part 4, p. 527.) The law formerly announced, and here corroborated, is, that the average number of the heart's beats corresponding to the circuit of the blood°amounts, in mammalia, to 26—28, no matter whether the mean rate of the pulse natural to the species be high or low. Forty-eight ex- periments on eight species of mammals gave an average of 26-8. In birds the law is similar to that in mammals, sixteen experiments on seven species giving the number 28. It may be assumed that the mean period of the blood's circuit in these classes of animals corresponds to the time within which the heart performs 27 beats. Now, as the maximum frequency of the pulse of a young squirrel is 430 iu the minute,VASCULAR SYSTEM. 31 it follows that the minimum period required for the blood's circuit in mammals is only three and three quarter seconds. The result of these inquiries proves that one common plan presides over the circulation in the mammalia. The proportion of blood, and the rela- tive quantity thrown out of the heart at each ventricular systole, arc everywhere'the same, so that the frequency of the heart's action deter- mines the period required for the circulation of the blood through the system. H. Meyer.—On the Influence of the Nerves upon the Colour of the Venous Blood. Reichert's u. Du Bois's Arch., 1859, P- 2o6> Cansfc-> vol. i, p. 107. In the cutaneous veins of the hind legs of two rabbits the blood, some time after division of the sciatic nerves, became bright red, and continued so five or seven days. In three rabbits the blood of the carotid became darker, or contained streaks of dark blood, after division of both vagi. Meyer's view is, that the paralytic dilatation of the vessels gives passage to so much blood that it cannot be all properly changed in the capil- laries. Schelske.—The Action of Heat upon the Heart. Verh. d. naturh. med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, vol. ii, p. 26, i860. I. At a temperature of from 280 to 350 C, the pulsations of a healthy frog's heart are at first increased, and then arrested. 2. The action of the ventricles ceases before that of the auricles. 3. At a temperature of 10° or 15° C, the pulsations are normal. 4. If the heart be exposed to a temperature of o° C, its action is quickened, but only for a short time. 5. Cold stops its action much sooner than heat. If, after the action of the heart has ceased from the effects of heat, the vagi be stimulated by galvanism, muscular contraction is induced ; and if an induction-current be kept up, the heart is thrown into a kind of tetanic spasm. E. Wagner.—On a Case of True or Primary Softe?iitiff of the Heart. Archiv d. Heilk., i860, p. 185. On making the post-mortem examination of a child sixteen days old, whose mother died of puerperal fever, Wagner found the heart in a very peculiar condition. The pericardium was normal. The heart was flabby"; botli ventricles were of about the same thickness, and contained a small quantity of coagulated blood. The left ventricle wa3 so soft that, on attempting to open it, it broke in pieces, aud became a pulpy mass. The right ventricle was in a similar, or even softer, condition, but the auricle was normal. On putting some of the muscular tissue of the left ventricle under the microscope, it fell to pieces so readily that it did not require to be teased out; fragments of muscular fibres were seen, resembling the smooth, spindle-shaped cells of involuntary muscle. They possessed no strife, and were, for the most part, nucleated. Free cells and granule's were also observed, but no fat-globules. The sarcolemma was, in some parts, thickened and (Edematous. The substance of the right ven- tricle had a somewhat similar appearance to that fouud in the left. No striated fihres were anywhere to be seen. The upper part of the right lung was emphysematous, and the left pleural cavity contained a quan- tity of bloody, purulent fluid, compressing the lung. Wagner remarksKEt'OUT ON THE INSTITUTES (>!•' M EI>I( INE. that this was not a case of fatty softening of tlie heart, neither could it be one of simple putrefaction, ns the weather was cold, and the examina- tion made thirty-six hours after death. Sydney Ringer.—On the Alteration of the Pitch of Sound by Con- duction through different Media. Proc. Roy. Soc, Jan., p. 276. Sydney Ringer.—On the Alteration of Pitch of Cardiac Murmurs by Conduction through the various Media composing the Thoracic Organs and Walls. Ed. Med. Journ., Sept., p. 249. In the paper published in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society,' Ringer endeavours to show that the pitch of sound is altered by conduc- tion, the nature of the alteration varying willi the conducting medium. The following is the summary of his conclusions: That porous substances, such as wood or bone, lower the pitch in pro- portion to their porosity. All other solids, such as iron and glass, raise the pitch. Fluids raise the pitch. Fluids in motion raise it more than fluids at rest. Solutions in water raise it more than pure water, and in proportion to the strength of the solution. Minute particles suspended in water raise it more than either pure water or solutions. Gases raise the pitch slightly. The heart's substance lowers the pitch. Cellular tissue raises it. All the above alter the pitch in proportion to the amount of the con- ducting medium listened through. Ringer believes that a murmur heard through the lung has its pitch raised in consequence of the presence of air. A full and retained inspi- ration therefore increases the sound. The following, he says, is the diagnostic application of the facts which he cites: When a murmur is very intense, it is audible over the entire heart-re- gion, often rendering it difficult to decide whether there is but one murmur audible at the other orifices merely by conduction, or whether two original murmurs exist. The point of greatest intensity will decide one; and, if percussion dulness excludes the possibility of fluid in the pericardium, and the pitch of the less intense murmur heard at the other orifices be higher than that of the most intense, this is indubitable proof of the existence of a second murmur. In cases where tumours simulate in their percussion dulness, fluid in the pericardium, should a murmur exist, the tumour being solid would probably lower the pitch; should it be, however, fluid, the pitch would be raised by conduction through it. Again, it is often difficult to decide whether a basic murmur be aortic or pulmonary, or both ; it being heard with equal intensity at both second cartilages. If aortic only, the pitch will be heightened at the second right cartilage, but lowered at the second left, and vice versd in the case of a pulmonary murmur; whilst, should both exist, the pitch will be heightened at both cartilages. Poiseuille.—On the Pressure of the Blood in the Arterial System. Compt. Rend., August, i860, p. 238. Some years ago, Poiseuille stated that if two hemodynamomcters ofVASCULAR SYSTEM. 33 equal dimensions were simultaneously applied at two points of the arte- rial system, at unequal distances from the heart, they would both indicate the same degree of pressure. This statement is contrary to the ideas of Bichat whoDthought that the force of the blood is solely due to the action of the heart, and that the impulse of the blood gradually diminishes as it approaches the capillary system. Volkmann, in 1850, showed, on physical grounds, that Poiseuille's views could not be correct. Our author has now repeated and extended his experiments, and gives, in the present communication, the results obtained in a tabular form. It is, however, unnecessary here to give the tables; suffice it to say that Poiseuille, by employing tubes with branches so arranged as to imitate the arterial system, obtained results opposed to the statements of Volk- mann and confirmatory of his own views. Dr. Marey.—Researches on the Circulation in Health and Disease. Paris, 1859, 4-to. Dr. Marey.—On the Pulse, and on Vascidar Murmurs. Journ. de la Phys., 1859, pp. 2,59, 420. Canst., vol. 1, p. 37. Arterial elasticity enables the ventricle to expel more blood into the vessels than it could with the same power drive into a system of rigid tubes, where the whole friction would require to be simultaneously overcome. The dilatation of the arteries not only obviates the necessity of instantly overcoming the friction (which increases with the square of the velocity), but also of propelling all the fluid forward at once. Elastic tubes do not, of course, possess those advantages except when the stream of liquid is intermittent. The circumstances just alluded to, the author thinks, ex- plain why ossification, or any other condition which lessens arterial elasti- city, favours dilatation of the ventricles. In order to determine the effects of an intermitting flow of liquid upon elastic tubes, the author used a hemodynamometer, carrying a capillary tube at the upper end of its ascending limb. The position of this tube was such as to cause a gradual rise of the column of liquid corresponding to the true mean pressure, and a considerable source of error was thereby obviated. An increased supply of fluid to a tube enhances the lateral pressure mostly near the inlet, whilst an impediment to the out- flow augments it mainly near to the obstruction of the tube. If fluid be driven in jets, the rapidity of dilatation decreases with the distance from the inlet. In the living arteries, the pulse everywhere commences simul- taneously. Marey's view is therefore opposed to the idea of the gradual propagation of pulse waves. Blowing murmurs always arise when the arterial blood is suddenly relieved of tension, as after clearing a constriction. The intensity of the murmurs is as the difference of tension above and below the stricture. They occur wherever a wave of normal or excessive volume is driven into an arterial system of weak tension, as in chlorosis, typhus, and some phlegmasise. Where an aneurism suppresses the pulse, partially or entirely, it is because the capacious sac removes the disparity of tension produced by every fresh inflow, and not because it contains coagula. An aneurism at the commencement of the aorta may, therefore, without injury, abolish the pulse throughout the body. 3REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 3 1. Dr. J. Mahey.—Researches on the Form and Frequency of the Pulse by means of a New " Sphygmographion," or Apparatus for Registering the Pulsations. Compt. Rend., 26th March, i860, p. 634. Dr. J. Marey.—Researches on the State of the Circulation according to the Characters of the Pulse, Indicated by a New " Sphygmographion." Journ. de la Phys., No 10, p. 241. The apparatus invented by Dr. Marey is a modification of that used and described by Vierordt. It does not weigh more than about eight ounces, and is so small that it can be carried in the pocket. For the description of its construction we must refer our readers to the original paper in the 'Journal de la Phys.,' as without the woodcut no correct idea of the instru- ment can be given. Dr. Packard (Philadelphia).—Remarks on the state of the Capillary Bloodvessels in Inflammation. Amer. Journ. Med. Scien., January, i860, p. 62. Packard observes, that the recognisable causes of inflammation are either stimuli, primarily increasing the functional activity of the part concerned, ordepressingagents,inducingthesame effect]secondarily; butthat theprecise mode in which either influence is exerted, whether directly upon the tissues or indirectly through the nerves, is not yet known. In every case, how- ever, there is a stage of exaltation of the "life-actions" of the part, and it appears to him that in it is to be found the true explanation of the dis- tension of the capillary blood-vessels. If the inflammation continue, the over-stimulated tissues are unable to dispose of the blood they have acquired ; the blood, therefore, stagnates, and blocks up the vessels ; and, as the general circulation goes on, the fresh blood coming to the part must find a passage elsewhere. Hence ensues the overfilling of the vessels in the neighbouring parts. Should the stagnation be absolute, and should it last beyond a certain time, the tissues die from want of oxygen; the interception of their supply of nutriment may also take part in causing their death. Such, the author thinks, is probably the rationale of many cases in which an inflamed part becomes gangrenous. Stagnation does not always ensue in inflammation, although the current of blood may be very much slackened ; in chronic inflammation, without suppuration, it is probable that this retardation is one of the chief constituents of the phenomena. Such a state of things might more properly, Packard con- siders, be termed permanent congestion. His views of the condition of the capillaries are nearly identical, as he himself remarks, with those Dr. Alison published many years ago, and he concludes by saying, in the language of Virchow, that they seem to him to present "the true combination of solidism and humoralism." Dr. Hood.—On the Conditions of the Blood in Mania. Trans. Roy. Med. and Chir. Soc, p. 159. Lancet, and Medical Times and Gazette, 26th May. Hood, with the assistance of Marcet, analysed the blood of six maniacal patients, during the paroxysm and in a state of convalescence, and the results led him to conclude that there is a deficiency of fibrin during the period of maniacal excitement, and a correction of the deficiency during convalescence. The six cases selected were three of " acute" and three of " recurrent mania."VASCULAR SYSTEM. 35 Case i.—Acute Mania.—W. G—, nged twenty-one, admitted into Beth- lem Hospital in December, 1856, became maniacal one month before admission. Hereditary tendency traceable in both his father and his paternal grandfather. There was no apparent bodily disease. The patient was of spare habit and of an excitable temperament, and had not been sub- ject to any medical treatment previous to his admission. Nourishing diet was prescribed, and the following sedative mixture: acetate of morphia, half a grain ; tincture of hyoscyamus, one drachm ; camphor mixture, eleven drachms—three times a day. At the end of a fortnight, the morphia was increased to one grain, three times a day. In September, 1857, he was discharged cured. Analysis of the Blood. During maniacal excitement. Water . • 777-39 Water . Red particles . 149.74 Red particles Fibrin 1.74 Fibrin Albumen, &c . 63.28 Albumen, &c. Inorganic salts . . . 7.85 Inorganic salts Fatty matter . 0.00 Fatty matter 1000.00 When discharged cured. 734-93 110.07 2.20 90.63 8.00 4.17 1000.00 Case %.—Acute Mania.—W. T. G—, a drum major in the Guards, ad- mitted into Bethlem Hospital in March, 1857 ; was married, and had lived a temperate life. He was very excited, noisy, mischievous, and incessantly talking. Morphia and sedatives, with full diet, were prescribed. In March, 1858, he was discharged cured. During maniacal excitement. Water . Red particles^ Fibrin Albumen &c. Inorganic salts Fatty matter Analysis of the Blood. 791.64 Water 125.48 Red particles i-5S Fibrin 69.84 Albumen, &c. 8.98 Inorganic salts 2.31 Fatty matter 1000.00 When discharged cured. 7S8.76 140.61 2-7S 87.28 8.82 i-78 iooo-oo Case 3.—Acute Mania.—E. R—, married, and the mother of four children, was admitted into Bethlem Hospital in June, 180, and discharged cured in May, 1858. ° Analysis of the Blood. During maniacal excitement. Water . Red particles . Fibrin . , Albumen, &c. . Inorganic salts Fatty matter . 806.71 Water . 104.68 Red particles . 1.67 Fibrin . . 76.53 Albumen, &c. . 7.41 Inorganic salts 3.00 Fatty matter . 1000.00 1000.00 • t 4'm1! it5U , Mania.—B. J. G-, a single woman, was received into Bethlem Hospital in 1837, since which date she has been subject to repeated attacks of recurrent mania, the paroxysms lasting five weeks86 BBPOBT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. and Btoration. being followed by two weeks' tranquillity and apparent mental re- tion. During maniacal excitement Water 769.66 Red particles . . . . 121.77 Fibrin ..... 1.58 Albumen, &c 98.44 Inorganic salts .... 8.55 Fatty matter .... 0.00 Analysis of the Blood During the conruleircnt stapr Water . Red particles . Fibrin Albumen, &c. . Inorganic sails Fatty matter . 811.68 126.01 2.88 47 54 9-.I' 2.58 Case 2.—Recurrent Mania.—F. B— was admitted into Bethlem Hospital in the year 1838. The mental disease was cleary traceable to hereditary tendency. Site suffered from alternations of mental excitement and tranquillity. The blood was taken in each of these states. Analysis of the Blood. During the maniacal paroxysm. 7G3-73 139-05 2.46 8I.7S 8.09 2.92 Water . . 784.07 Water . Red particles . 123.81 Red particles Fibrin 0.06 Fibrin Albumen, &c. 81.69 Albumen, &c. Inorganic salts 8.62 Inorganic salts Fatty matter i-75 Fatty matter IOOO'OO 1000.00 Case 3.— Recurrent Mania.—"W.D— was admitted into Bethlem Hospital in June, 1841, at the age of twenty-nine, since which time he has been subject to continued attacks of recurrent mania ; for a month or six weeks he will be found rational and conversible ; but during the succeeding five weeks or more his entire mental condition appears to have undergone a re- volution ; irritability succeeds the natural amiability of his conduct, and he assumes the habits and bearing of a congenital idiot. The analysis of the blood was made at]such periods as would best represent a fair specimen of each particular state : Analysis of the Blood. During the maniacal paroxysm. Water 77.3-86 Red particles .... 135-56 Fibrin 1 -9^ Albumen, &c 79-22 Inorganic salts.... 7-99 Fatty matter .... 1.41 During the convalescent period. Water . Red particles Fibrin Albumen, &c. Inorganic salts Fatty matter 779-93 121.65 2.97 87.16 8.29 0.00 Dr W. Addison.—On CertainChanges in the Form of the Red Corpuscles of the Blood, produced by Certain Fluids. Brit. Med. Joura., 13th Oct., p. 798, and Nov., 24th, p. 910. Addison relates some experiments made on freshly drawn blood, with solutions of common salt, sugar, &c, and concludes therefrom that, by an appropriate application of alkaline and acid fluids, we can cause the corpuscles of human blood to assume particular and definite shapes. And, further, that we may see them gradually changing from one form to another,NERVOUS SYSTEM. 87 and observe during the transition that the corpuscles regain, for a longer or shorter period (dependent on the strength of the reagents), their normal figure and adhesive properties. The author previously described (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' nth June, 1859) the emission of moving tails or filaments, or molecular matter from red corpuscles, when under the influence of sherry wine. He now adds, that he finds that an acid reaction in the vinous fluid is an essential ingredient towards the production of this phenomenon. A. Wurlitzer.—On the Temperature of Arterial and Venous Blood ; with some Experiments. Greifswald, 8vo, 1858. Canst., vol. i, p. 23, i860. Wurlitzer conveyed a slender thermometer as deeply as possible down the carotid artery and jugular vein of a dog ; the thermometer reached, in the first case, nearly to the aortic valves, and in the latter to the vena cava. The oft-repeated experiments vary so considerably that any general conclusion must be uncertain. The author, however, assumes, from his most reliableobservations, that venous iswarmer than arterial blood byo.020, to 0.050, C. The researches were made under Budge's superintendence. Prof. Hyrtl.—Preliminary Communications respecting Non-Vascular Hearts. Sitzungsberichte der Wiener Akademie, vol. xxxiii, p. 572. Canst., vol. i, p. 35. This anatomist calls attention to the circumstance that the heart of the Urodela, Gymmophiona, and Batrachia, is completely destitute of vessels. The heart of the Saurians, Chelonians, and Ophidians, has but a very thin cortical layer supplied with vessels, whilst the deeper strata possess none. The cavernous structure of these hearts, by permitting the blood to penetrate deeply into the muscular substance, renders a special capillary system unnecessary. The heart of most osseous fishes resembles that of the scaly amphibia, whereas in the heart of the Ganoids and Hexanchus griseus all the layers are vascular. The heart of fishes being venous, venous blood must possess constituents capable of nourishing its muscular substance. NERVOUS SYSTEM. A. T. H. Waters.—Observations on the Physiology and Pathology 0/the Nervous System, pp. 37. The Retrospective Address delivered at the Meeting of the British Medical Association at Liverpool. Brown-S£quard.—Experimental Researches on the Medulla Oblongata. Journ. de la Phys., No. 9, January, i860, p. 151. Brown-Sequard.— On the Independence of the Vital Properties of the Motor Nerves. Journ. de la Phys., No. 9, January, i860, p. 160. Dr. Levison.—On some Phenomena of the Nervous Life of Animalcules. Communicated to the Harveian Society. Lancet, 3d March, p. 221. Richard Hughes.—Ore the Generation of Nerve-force. Brit. Med. Journ., 16th June, p. 456. Dr. John Ashhurst (Philadelphia).—On Nervous Action. Amer. Med. Journ., July, i860, p. 102. B. STILLING.—New Inquiries into the Structure of the Spinal Cord. 5th part, Cassel, 1859, 4to. (Description of the methods; terminal filaments j scheme of the structure of the spinal cord ; historical and critical. This is the last part of Sailing's great work.)38 ItEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. ScniFF.—On the Function of the Posterior Columns of the Spinal Cord. Anitl. Ber. d. Vers. d. deutsch. Nnturf'. u. Aerzte, Carlsruhe, 1859, p. 198, 214. Sciiiff.—New Experiments on the Function of the Posterior Columns of the Spinal Cord. Journ. Hebd., 1859, No. P- 2l^- Vulpian.—Note on some Points of the Anatomy of the Medulla Oblongata and Pons Varolii in Man. Gaz. Med., No. 7, 1859, p. 112. (Ana- tomical details regarding the possibility of crucial paralysis.) Budge.—On the Genito-spinal Centre of the Sympathetic Nerve. Vircliow's Arch., vol. xv, p. 115. Brown-Sequard.—Remarks on a Note of Professor Budge relative to an Asserted Spinal Nervous Centre. Journ. de Pbys., vol. ii, 1859, p. 162. A. C. Gerlach.— The Mental Faculties of Animals, compared with those of Man. Berlin, 1859, 8vo. Vulpian.—Experiments Relative to the Influence of the Spinal Cord on the Lymphatic Heart of the Batrachia. Gaz. Me'd., No. 2, p. 33. Edward Weber.—Contribution to the History of the Physiology of the Vagi. Keichert's u. Du Bois' Arch., 1859, p. 292. Canst., vol. i, p. 92. (Question of priority regarding inhibition of the heart's movement.) E. Pfluger.—Reply to Heidenhain''s Neuro-physiological Communication. Allg. Med. Centralztg., 1859, No. 14, p. 105. R. Heidenhain.—Answer to Dr. Pfluger. Ib., No. 16, p. 121. H. Muli.er.—On Innervation of the Smooth Muscles of the Eye by Fibres of the Sympathetic Nerve. Verh. d. Phys. Med. Ges. in Wurzburg, vol. x, part 1, p. 13. C. VoiT.—On the Temperature of the Ear after Division of the Sympa- thetic, and on its Measurement. Amtl. Ber. d. deutsch. Naturf. u. Aerzte, Carlsruhe 1859, 4to, p. 221. J. N. Zengerle.—The Influence of the Nervous System on Digestion, and Progressive and Retrograde Formation, and also on the Development of Animal Heat; treated in Accordance with the Present Slate of Science. Freiburg, 1859, ^vo- Gubler.—On Recurrent Sensibility Regarded as a Phenomenon of Reflex Sensation. Gaz. Med., 1859, No. 4°' P- ^28. Journ. du Progres, No 8, p. 215. Dr. Michel (Charleston, S. C).—Pathology of the Pituitary Body. Charl. Med. Journ. and Rev., March, i860. Bernard.—On the Sensitive Properties of the Sympathetic Nerve, and on the Reflex Movements Produced by its Action. La Clin. Europ., No. 29, p. 225. E. Harless.—Preliminary Communication Regarding the So-called Modes of Irritability. Bayr. Aerztl. Intell. Blatt, 19 Feb., 1859, p. 85. Canst., vol. i, p. 101. "W. Wundt.—On the Secondary Modification of Nerves. Reichert's u. Du Bois' Arch., 1859, P- 537'^- Canst., vol. i, p. 101. Brauell.—Contributions to the Knowledge of the Course Pursued by the Vaso-motor Nerves of the Hind Leg in the Dog. Gurlt's u. Hartwig's Mag. f. d. ges. Thier-heilk., vol. xxv, 1859, p. 292. Canst., vol. i, p. 109.NERVOUS SYSTEM. 39 J. Lockhart Clark.—Observations on the Structure of Nerve-Fibre. Micros. Journ., Jan., i860, p. 65. Clark gives a review of Selling's recent researches,1 and says that the supposed elementary tubules, or fibres, described by Stilling, have no actual existence, the appearances from which they have been inferred resulting solely from corrugations, ridges, or folds, produced in the white substance by the action of chromic acid. The medullary sheath is semi- fluid, extremely extensible, but inelastic, and of a peculiarly viscid nature, so that when its continuity is interrupted, or whenever it is in any way disturbed, it has little or no tendency to return to its original position ; and, like other semi-fluid and viscid substances, may be drawn into fibres, or into delicate expansions of extreme tenuity. A fold or ridge raised up from the white substance presents to the eye, looking down on its convex surface, the appearance of a fine tubule, bounded on each side by a single dark outline, but on close examination Clark found that there are no vacant spaces between the ridges, as there would be if they were really fibres or tubules, and that they are all connected together by intervening portions of the hardened and brittle, but extremely transparent, white substance. With regard to the structure of the external or membranous sheath of the primitive nerve-fibre, there is some difference of opinion among ana- tomists. Clark believes that it consists of fibres of different shapes and sizes, some of which are so extremely delicate that, when in close apposi- tion, they appear to be fused, as it were, into a homogeneous, finely granular, nucleated membrane. Some of the fibres are broad, flat, or riband-shaped, of a faint aspect, and spotted at intervals with exceedingly pale and delicate granules; they are joined together at their edges. Other fibres composing the sheath are of smaller diameter, but sometimes less delicate and branched; they proceed from the ends of their nuclei, which are also occasionally coarser and of darker outline. W. Turner, M.B. (Lond.).-—Further Observations on the Structure of Nerve-Fibres. Micros. Journ., July, p. 150. In this communication the author states that in none of his prepara- tions has he been able to see any of the "ramifications" of the axis cylinder into the medullary sheath, which have been so elaborately figured and described by Stilling. Turner believes that the structures described by Stilling under that name are nothing more than small, fibroid particles of the medullary sheath itself, and quite distinct structurally from the axis cylinder. If they were actual prolongations of the axis cylinder, they would, like it, receive the carmine colouring matter when the preparation is subjected to the process of imbibition, which, however, as far as the author has seen, never takes place. Turner also disagrees with the opinion expressed by Stilling regarding the different fibres being connected in a bundle by means of fine, elementary tubules passing 1 Stilling states—(1) that the nerve-sheath consists of a thick network of the finest tuhules or fibres, which cross each other in all directions. From this network fibres run both inwards and outwards, the latter becoming connected with tbe sheaths of the neigh- bouring nerve-fibres, while the former unite with the medullary sheath and axis cylinder. (2) That the medullary sheath also consists of a multitude of the finest fibres. And (3) that the axis cylinder consists of three layers, one within the other.HE PORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 40 between them. Each fibre in Turner's preparations possesses a distinct nnd well-marked, unbroken outline ; the only intermediate material that he has been able to detect is an extremely delicate, wavy, connective tissue, which, although lying between the fibres, does not in any sense form a part of them. N, Jacubowitscii.—Tertninations of Nerves at the Periphery, and in the different Organs, or Peripheral Terminations of the Nervous System in general. Compt. Rend., p. 859, 7th May, i860. If the mesentery of a cat, containing Pacinian bodies, be examined with a power of 180 or 200 diameters, after it has been kept twenty-four hours in Moleschott's solution (a mixture of alcohol and acetic acid),1 the Pacinian bodies will be observed to consist of two capsules, an outer and an inner. The nerve itself usually divides before entering the Pacinian body into several branches, which retain their medullary substance and neurilemma until they have passed through the outer capsule ; but on arriving at the inner, they are reduced to the axis cylinder, which passes onwards to the upper part, and there terminates in the nucleus of a well- defined cell. If the tactile-corpuscles of the frog be examined in the same way, it will be found that their nerve-fibres also terminate in the nucleus of a cell. Hence there is a great analogy between the Pacinian bodies and tactile-corpuscles. In the case of some nerves, the fibres terminate in cells, but not in the nuclei, while in others, they form a network of very fine nerve-fibres, the axis cylinders of which run into each other, and thereby form a nerve net- work. Prof. Beale.—On the Distribution of Nerves to the Elementary Fibres of Striped Muscle. Proc. Roy. Soc., No. 40, p. 519. Beale's paper concludes with the following summary of the most im- portant facts elucidated in the inquiry: 1. That nerve-fibres in muscle and in many other tissues, if not in all, maybe traced into, and are directly continuous with, a network formed of oval nuclei and intermediate fibres. 2. That the organs by which nerves are brought into relation with other textures, and the agents concerned in the development of nerves and the formation of new fibres, are the little oval bodies or nuclei which are present in considerable number in the terminal ramifications of all nerves. A great number of these bodies is associated with exalted nervous action, while, when they are sparingly found, Ave may infer that the nervous phenomena are only imperfectly manifested. 3. That every elementary fibre of striped muscle is abundantly supplied with nerves, and that the fibres of some muscles receive a much larger supply than others. 4. That the nerves lie, with the capillaries, external to, but in close con- tact with, the sarcolemma. They often cross the muscular fibre at right angles, so that one nerve fibre may influence a great number of elementary muscular fibres. There is no evidence of their penetrating into the interior of the fibre. 1 Sec Report on "Vascular System," p. 27.NERVOUS SYSTEM. 41 Dr. Wiliielm Manz.—The Ganglions, and Nerves of the Intestines. Ber. d. naturf. Ges. zu Freiburg, Br. ii, I, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 158. The researches were chiefly made on pig's intestine. 1. The ganglions are tolerably numerous; but irregularly distributed in the nervous layer. 2. They have each an enclosing membrane, and consist'of packets of from two to six cells. 3. The membrane appears to be, however, merely a prolongation of the neurilemma of the nerve to which the ganglion is attached; this may, perhaps, be better understood if we describe the ganglion as being simply a collection of cells within the nerve-sheath. 4. The size of the ganglion depends more on the size of the nerve on which it is situated than upon theactual number of cells of which it is composed, for the number of the cells varies but little. 5. The size, too, of the cells is nearly the same in all the ganglions of the same intestine. 6. The largest cells are generally those in the centre of the little heap. 7. Each cell is circular in shape, and possesses fine, granular contents, and a well-defined nucleus, with a nucleolus in its interior. 8. In the intestine of the ox, the ganglia are, in general, smaller than in that of the pig. 9. The individual cells composing them, on the other hand, are larger. 10. In the sheep, the ganglia, as well as the cells, are similar in size to those found in the pig. 11. The intestine of the rabbit has very large ganglia, but very small cells. 12. In man, the ganglia are exceedingly small; they seldom consist of more than ten or twelve cells ; have distinct nuclei, but scarcely any nucleoli. 13. In the intestine of the child, ganglia are also to be found, but neither nuclei nor ganglion-cells, with distinct cell-walls, are to be detected in them. They seem to be composed merely of fine, dark granules, collected together in little groups, which are of about half the size of the ganglion-cells met with in the human adult. A. Gubler.*— On the Dark Coloration of the Nerve-centres in the White Races of Mankind. Journ. dela Phys., No. 9, p. 157, January, i860. In 1848, Rayer called attention to the fact that the brains of negroes are darker than those of whites. Gubler now calls attention to a some- what analogous fact, namely, that individuals among the white races, with dark eyes, black hair, and swarthy complexions, have a considerable amount of pigment deposited in their nerve-centres, while in fair people little or none is to be detected. In fact, that the deposit of colouring matter in the nerve-substance is in direct proportion to the amouut of pigment distributed in other parts of the body. Prof. 0. Funke.—On the Chemical Reaction of Nerve-substance. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., 1859, p. 835. (1) The fresh spinal cord of animals (frogs and rabbits) poisoned with woorara has a neutral reaction. (2) The reaction of the gray nerve-sub- stance appears to be the same as that of the white. (3) Some hours after death in the rabbit—from eighteen to twenty—the nerve-substance has an acid reaction,which continues until putrefaction setsin, when it gradually becomesagainneutral.andatlastalkaline. (4) If fresh nerve-substance (spinal cord of a rabbit) be kept in water at a temperature of 45°—500 C. during five or ten minutes, it becomes at once acid ; this change is even more observable if the water be at a boiling temperature. Funke concludes42 EEPOItT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. therefrom that, as an alkali is set free when albumen coagulates, so an acid is liberated when nerve-substance passes into the same state. (5) In animals poisoned with strychnine, the fresh nerve-substance is not neutral, but acid. (6) The continued stimulation of a frog's nerve by galvanism in like manner causes the nerve-substance to yield an acid reaction. It appears, therefore, that nervous action is accompanied by, or associated with, the liberation of a free acid. Budge.—On the Different Degrees of Sensibility in one and the same Nerve. Virchow's Archiv., vol. xviii, p. 457. Schmidt, vol. 108, If the sciatic nerve of a frog be exposed throughout its course, from the vertebral canal down to its attachments with the muscles, and a stimulus applied to different portions, it will be found that the sensibility of the nerve is least at its lower, greatest at its upper part. In fact, that the sensibility diminishes in proportion to the distance of the nerve-centre ; and therefore that a stimulus capable of exciting muscular contraction when applied to the nerve close to its attachment to the spinal cord, may fail to produce any movements when applied in the neighbourhood of the muscles them- selves. This result is the reverse of what is obtained from a dying nerve. In it, the sensibility increases as we proceed from the centre to the circum- ference ; so that a stimulus too weak to excite any muscular contraction when applied to the upper, may still induce it when applied to the lower portion of the nerve. Budge further states, that in a perfectly healthy and fresh nerve there are certain points which are much more sensitive than others, and consequently form exceptions to the above-named law. Brown-Sequard.—Experimental Researches on various Questions con- cerning Sensibility. Proc. Koy. Soc, No. 40, p. 510. Brown-Se'quard applied two ligatures to the femoral artery, and after having divided the vessel between the ligatures, amputated the thigh com- pletely, excepting, however, the two large nerves of the limb, which were left as free from injury as possible. The results obtained were,—1st. That the duration of sensibility in the toes, in rabbits, varies between twenty and twenty-three minutes. 2d. That, in guinea-pigs, the duration varies between forty and fifty minutes. In one case the sensibility lasted a little more than an hour. 3d. That, in dogs, the duration of sensibility varies between thirty and thirty-five minutes. The second question examined by the author is the influence of temper- ature on the duration of sensibility in parts deprived of the circulation of the blood. Amputated limbs of guinea-pigs were dipped into water at various temperatures, and the results were as follows : 1 st. Water at 1040, Fahr., duration of sensibility, in average, forty-one minutes. 2d. Water at 8o° Fahr., duration of sensibility, forty-nine minutes. 3d. Water at 500 Fahr., duration of sensibility, fifty-three minutes. 4th. Water at 35° Fahr., duration of sensibility, fifty-eight minutes. These results show that the lower the temperature, the longer sensi- bility persists in parts deprived of circulation. The third question discussed is whe ther an augmentation in the vital pro- perties of the spinal cord is able to influence the duration of sensibility of a limb deprived of the circulation of the blood. In one series of experimentsNERVOUS SYSTEM. 43 the posterior columns of the spinal cord were divided, and then a hind limb cut away, except that the nerves were left entire. In the other series the spinal cord was divided after the limb was amputated. In both series the sensibility lasted longer than in animals in which the posterior columns were not divided. For instance, in rabbits, instead of twenty or twenty- two minutes, the sensibility lasted thirty or thirty-five. In a rabbit in which the spinal cord was in a normal condition, and in which the toes, after the partial amputation of the limb, were losing the last appear- ance of sensibility, he observed a notable return of this vital property take place on dividing the posterior columns of the spinal cord in the dorsal region. This shows that when sensibility seems to be lost in a part de- prived of circulation, it is not completely so. Arthur E. Durham.—The Physiology of Sleep. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. vi, p. 149. From an experimental inquiry into the physiology of sleep, the author deduces the following conclusions : 1. Pressure of distended veins upon the brain is not the cause of sleep, for during sleep the veins are not distended; and when they are, symp- toms and appearances arise which differ from those which characterise sleep. 2. During sleep the brain is in a comparatively bloodless condition; and the blood in the encephalic vessels is not only diminished in quan- tity, but moves with diminished rapidity. 3. The condition of the cerebral circulation during sleep is, from phy- sical causes, that which is the most favorable to the nutrition of the brain tissue; and, on the other hand, the condition which prevails during waking is associated with mental activity, because it is that which is most favorable to oxidation of the brain substance, and to various changes in its chemical constitution. 4. The blood which is derived from the brain during sleep is distri- buted to the alimentary and excretory organs. 5. Whatever increases the activity of the cerebral circulation tends to preserve wakefulness; and whatever decreases the activity of the cerebral circulation, and at the same time is not inconsistent with the general health of the body, tends to induce and favour sleep. Such circumstances may act primarily through the nervous or through the vascular system. Among those which act through the nervous system may be instanced the pre- sence or absence of impressions upon the senses, and the presence or absence of exciting ideas. Among those which act through the vascular system, may be mentioned unnaturally or naturally increased or decreased force or frequency of the heart's action. 6. A probable explanation of the reason why quiescence of the brain normally follows its activity is suggested by the recognised analogical fact, that the products of chemical action interfere with the continuance of the action by which they are produced. Prof. A. Kussmaul.—Researches on the Mental Condition of the New- born Child. pp.40. Heidelberg, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 278. Kussmaul made a series of experiments with the view of ascertaining the effect of external impressions on the new-born infant. They were— 1. On the sense of taste, and feeling of nausea. The experiments were made by means of solutions of sugar and quinine (of the latterKKl'OliT ON THE INSTITI TKS OF MKMCINE. 11 twenty grains to the ounce of water). These solutions induced the same facial movements in the infant, and even in the premature infant of the seventh month, as in the adult. From this the author concludes that the sense of taste exists in a perfect state at the moment of birth ; but he, of course, at the same time allows that it afterwards becomes modified by experience. The feeling of nausea, which, according to Stich, is a mus- cular sensation, is also well developed in the infant. 2. Feeling. The lips are acutely sensitive, the slightest touch inducing sucking movements. The mucous membrane of the nose 1 and of the tongue is equally sensitive to external impressions. In the palm of the band and sole of the foot, and, indeed, in the external surface of the body in general, the sense of feeling is fully developed. New-born children are exceedingly sensible to the effects of beat and cold. 3. Smelling. From experiments made on sleeping children, the author is convinced that even those born at the eighth month possess this sense in an uncomfortably high degree. It soon, however, becomes blunted. 4. Seeing. Even within the first hour after birth the pupil is sensible to light. 5. Hearing. Of all the senses this is the least developed in the new- born child. Even for several days after birth, children pay little or no attention to noises. As regards the feeling of pain, Kussmaul remarks that, in all probability, the cries of the new-born child arise from the painful sensation of cold. Dazzling light, loud noises, disagreeable tastes, and bad smells do not cause it to cry. Hunger and thirst are felt, he says, by children a few hours after birth ; and the want of air is experienced as soon as their connection with the mother's circulation is severed. Has a new-born babe intelligence 1 This is a question that our author has tried to. solve, and the results of his experiments have led him to conclude, that not only at the time of birth, but even while still in the mother's womb, the child possesses a perfectly developed sensorium and a complete motory apparatus, the uses of which it has begun to learn before its expulsion from the uterus. Man, he thinks, is born with a know- ledge, although imperfect, of the external world, recognises space, localizes feeling, and regulates his movements accordingly. The perfecting of his intelligence, however, depends on his powers of seeing, hearing, tasting, smelling, and feeling, as well as on the circumstances and con- ditions with which he is in future surrounded. Budge.—On the Functions of the Cceliac and Mesenteric Plexuses. Nova Acta Acad. Ctcs. Leop.-Car. Nat. Cur., xix, p. 257, i860. In this communication the author details the results of bis experiments on the effects of extirpation of the ganglia iu rabbits. The animals usually died within twenty-four hours ; one or two, however, lived three days. The effects observed are softening of the fecal pellets; so much so, that none of the ordinary rounded masses are to be found in the rectum. The feces are perfectly pulpy; and, within a very hours after the operation, arc covered over with a slimy mucus. The secretion of mucus occurs, even in the absence of feces, to a very great extent. Budge thinks that the movements of the great intestine arc much 1 in the premature infant the mucous membrane of the nose is very slightly sensitive.NERVOUS SYSTEM. 45 accelerated after the removal of the ganglia, and that the blood-vessels are enlarged, as is the case with those of the head after section of the cervical sympathetic. It would seem as if the vessels even allowed the blood to transude through their walls; for it occasionally happens that the tenacious slimy mucus is deeply tinged with blood. In two cases Budge found an enlargement of the liver follow upon extirpation of the ganglia. The operation is accompanied with a con- siderable amount of pain ; but if the splanchnic nerves are previously divided, the animals do not seem to be at all conscious of any suffering. A. Moreau. (i) Researches on the Sensory and Motor Roots of Nerves in Birds. Gaz. Med., 1859., No. 41, p. 646. (2) Experiments on the Sensory, Motor, and Pneumo-gastric Nerves oj Fishes. Ib., Nr. 40, p. 582. In birds aud fishes the posterior roots are sensitive, and the anterior are motor. On galvanizing the vagus nerve of the dog-fish, no movements of the part it supplies are excited, though sensory phenomena and reflex movements ensue. C. H. Bosse.—On the Influence of the Spinal Ganglions on the Nutrition of the Posterior Roots of the Spinal Nerves. Dorpat, 1859. 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 106. In frogs it is found that after division of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, the part connected with the ganglion is later in undergoing degeneration than the proximal fragment. With the anterior roots it is the reverse. The degeneration commences with the coagulation of the nerve pulp ; it next proceeds to fatty transformation, then to absorption of the fat, and finally to conversion of the nerve-tube into connective tissue. The author believes the ganglionic corpuscles to be the media through which the nutrition of the nerve is effected. Philipeatjx and Vulpian.—Experimental Researches on the Generation of Nerves Separated from the Nervous Centres. Compt. Rend., Sept. i860, p. 363. "When a nerve is divided transversely, it is believed that the peripheral portion of the nerve undergoes an important structural change, and loses its functions. All physiologists admit that the structural change, as well as the loss of function, is permanent, unless union takes place between the divided ends of the nerve. Philipeaux and Vulpian state that this opinion must be completely modified, as they have found by experiment that the peripheral portion of a nerve, separated from the central portion of the same nerve by section or by excision, can, after being completely changed, recover more or less perfectly its physiological properties and normal structure, without a previous union taking place between the two end3. This fact, the authors believe, is of great importance ; for it proves— 1. That the maintaining of the normal structure of the nerve is not so dependent upon its connection with the nerve-centres as was thought, since it can be shown that a degenerated nerve can re-obtain its normal characters and functions after it has been completely severed from the nervous centre. 2. That the power of exciting muscular movements, and giving rise to sensation, is not totally dependent on the central nervous system, for theseEEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 46 properties (especially the former) nre re-acquired by a nerve, in which they have been abolished, as soon as it regains its normal anatomical structure. Heurteloup.—On Nervous Syncope, its Significant Causes, and Nervous Derangements: to assist in elucidating the so-called Urethral Fever. Compt. Rend., 19th March, i860, p. 579. Heurteloup employs the term nervous syncope in order to distinguish a peculiar kind of fainting from the one usually supposed to arise from cessation of the heart's action. In some persons, the nervous syncope which he alludes to arises without any apparent cause; in others it is induced by a discordant sound, a disagreeable odour, a flash of light, or a sudden touch. It may also be induced by the sight of a mouse or spider, and in some constitutions even the mere recollection of passed emotions, or the thought of some future suffering, is sufficient for its pro- duction. Lastly, it may arise under the influence of a lesion or physical modification, such, for example, as too great heat, want of food, extreme titillation, the touching of a sensitive organ, the squeezing of a nerve, &c. Among the latter series of causes, Heurteloup especially signalizes the touching of the interior of the urethra. Prof. Poelman.—Note on the Diagnosis of Apoplexies. Compt. Rend., Nov., i860, p. 747. In a letter addressed to Flourens, Poelman remarks, that during several months he watched a little dog, in the house of one of his patients, which manifested very unusual symptoms. Its intelligence was perfect, there was no paralysis, yet the animal could not regulate its movements. Several times during the course of the day it was seized with an involuntary fit of turning round, always in the same direction; the fit lasting upwards of a quarter of an hour. After death, a considerable number of calcareous concretions were discovered in the middle peduncles of the cerebellum, while the greater part of the cerebellum itself appeared as if petrified. In the pons varolii were also a few calcareous granulations. The author adds: 1. The lesion of the cerebellum, almost entirely petrified, accounts for the irregular movements. 2. The diseased middle peduncles of the cerebellum and pons varolii, account for the involuntary circular movements. To this the author further adds, that the brain is essentially composed of three distinct parts :—1, brain proper—seat of the intelligence; 2, cere- bellum—seat of the principle which regulates the movements ; 3, medulla oblongata, or more properly the vital point—seat of the principle regu- lating the vital functions. Loss of intelligence marks cerebral apoplexy; disordered movements, hemorrhage into the cerebellum; sudden death, extravasation in the medulla oblongata—vital point. Brown-Sequaud.—Researches on the Physiology and Pathology of the Pons Varolii. Journ. de la Phys., vol. ii, p. 121. The restiform bodies and their prolongations are not, as they are sup- posed to be, the conductors of sensitive impressions. The hyperesthesia occurring on the side corresponding to unilateral injuries of the cord passes to the opposite side when the gray central substance of the medulla47 NERVOUS SYSTEM. or pons is affected. The central portion of the pons seems especially to conduct sensations, and the anterior the mandates of the will. Brown-S£quart>.—On the Velocity of the Nervous Current. Journ. du Progres, 1859, p. 323. The author assumes that conduction takes place more slowly in the spinal cord than in the nerves, because electric irritation applied to the extremity of the foot is proportionally longer in being perceived by the person experimented upon than when applied to the skin of the arms or neck. H. Friedberg.—On the Innervation of the Nose formed by Transplanta- tion. Virchow's Arch., vol. xvi, p. 1. Canst., vol. i, p. in. 1. In the three cases examined, impressions made upon the new organ were referred to the forehead. 2. The lower part of the nose was insensible, or nearly so, in all cases. 3. In a week or two impressions were referred to the right spot. 4. The frontal cicatrix was the last part that became sensible. 5. The author does not regard the reference of sensation to the forehead as the mere result of custom. 6. When the raw surfaces unite com- pletely, nerves may grow from the neighbouring parts into the new nose. 7. At the bridge the old and new nerves will meet together, and hence impressions made in that locality will sometimes be referred to the fore- head, and at other times to the nose. Dumexil.—Atrophy of the Hypoglossal, Facial, and Spinal Nerves. Gaz. Hebd., 1859, 25> P- 39°* In a man of fifty-three, suffering from incomplete motor paralysis of the left arm, there co-existed complete paralysis of the tongue, attended with inability to swallow solid food, and imperfect paralysis of the muscles of the face. The patient having been accidentally killed, both hypoglossi were examined, and found to be highly atrophied and gray in colour. The terminal branches in the muscles of the tongue contrasted strikingly with the ramifications of the trifacial and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. There was a somewhat similar condition of the peripheric branches of the facial nerve and the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, especially on the left side. The muscles supplied by the latter were very pale, and far advanced in fatty degeneration. This was not the case with the muscles of the tongue and face. J. Rosenthal.—On the Influence of High Degrees of Temperature on Motor Nerves. Reprint. Canst., vol. i, p. 97. This inquirer finds that the motor nerves of the frog become insensible at about 1580 Fah. (700 C.) At 1400 Fah. (6o° C.) excitability continues four or five seconds, at 1220 Fah. (500 C.) sixteen seconds, and at 1040 Fah. (400 C.) more than ten minutes. A nerve heated to 1040— 1130 Fah. (400—450 C.) produces tetanus of twenty seconds' duration. This does not occur between 113° and 1580 Fah. (450—70°C). A nerve paralyzed by a heat of 1130—1220 Fah. may regain its powers at a lower temperature, and this process may be repeated more than fifteen times. E. Earless.—Muscular Spasms occurring during the Desiccation of Nerves. Ilenle's u. Pfeufer's Zeitschr., vol. vii, 1859, p. 219. Canst., vol. i, p. 94. The author s observations extended to the effects of air (calm and in48 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. motion, warm and cold), sulphuric ncid, nmmonia, &c, in desiccating the nerves. When the desiccation has proceeded to a certain extent, mus- cular spasms occur very readily from gently touching, pulling, electrifying, or chilling the nerve. At an earlier stage, elevation of temperature pro- vokes the spasms at once. Several facts show that the intensity of the mus- cular twitchinga by no means increases in proportion to the rapidity of evaporation from the nerve. The spasms may be absent under circum- stances favorable to evaporation ; they may also occur when the nerve, after losing much moisture, is exposed to a more humid or to a cooler atmosphere. E. Haeless. — Molecular Processes in Nerve-Subs lance. 2d part, Munich, 4to. Canst., vol. i, p. 91. From multifarious experiments it appears that the cohesion and elas- ticity of the nerves suffer no perceptible change during the period of their activity. Even if a considerable quantity of medullary substance be expressed, or if a portion of the salts be dissolved out, nervous action is not destroyed. The probability therefore is, that the vital phenomena of nerves are determined by the transformation of their albuminous con- stituents. The author concludes from other experiments that nerves manifesting high irritability in common air lose it by contact with ozone; but if the irritability has already been on the decline in the atmosphere, first regain and then rapidly lose their power. Nerves enfeebled by ozone may, when restored to atmospheric air, attain a higher degree of vigour than they originally possessed. Ozone tends gradually to induce contractions with the completion and interruption of the ascending current, and finally with its interruption alone. Here, too, a return to atmospheric air may restore the original state. E. PFLiiGER.—Experimental Contribution to the Theory of the Inhibitory Nerves. Reichert's u. Du Bois's Archiv, 1859, p. 13. Canst., vol. i, p. 108. J. M. Schiff.—Contributions to the Physiology of the so-called Inhibi- tory Nerves. A Reply to Dr. E. Pf tiger, of Berlin. Moleschott's Untersuchungen, vol. vii, p. 201. Canst., ib. Pfliiger believes that inhibition constitutes the chief function of the pneumogastric and splanchnic nerves, and that this idea is further sup- ported by the fact, that division of these nerves is followed by an increase in the number of the pulsations of the heart. Schiff, on the other hand, is opposed to this view, and asserts that, when these nerves are galvanized, the effect obtained on the heart entirely depends on the strength of the electric current, a feeble current augmenting, a strong current diminish- ing the heart's movements. Pfliiger again denies that the feeble current ever augments the number of pulsations; galvanism, he says, invariably reduces them. In reply, Schiff cites an experiment, the result of which is unfavorable to the assumed inhibitory action of the vagi. If, he says, the spinal accessory nerves of a cat or goat be pulled completely out hy the roots, the frequency of the pulse continues unchanged (4—12 days). The portion of the nerve which is united with the vagus having degene- rated within that period, stimulation of the vagi with a moderate or pretty19 NERVOUS SYSTEM. strong induction current does not cause cessation of the heart's action. Division of the vagi, however, even now increases the frequency of the pulse; the increase in the number of the pulsations, therefore, depends on the vagus, and not on the accessory nerve, whilst the arrest of the heart's action depends on the accessory, and not on the vagus. In oppo- sition to Pfliiger's assertion, that feeble irritation does not increase the frequency of the pulse, Schiff remarks, that the amount of irritation lead- ing to augmented frequency is so limited that it easily escapes detection, a view which he supports by a considerable number of tabulated observa- tions. Further, the frequency of the pulse, he says, may be increased by mechanical or chemical irritation of the vagus, or of the medulla oblongata. Stimulation by galvanism of the splanchnic nerves increases the peri- staltic action of the intestines, as well as causes its cessation. And if the splanchnic nerves were the inhibitory nerves of the intestines, their sec- tion would be followed by increased vermicular movement. Schiff states, however, that he kept rats in perfect health for several weeks after he had destroyed the spinal roots of the splanchnic nerves, without observ- ing any increase in the movements of the intestines. Matteucci. —Results of Researches on the Electric FunctionoftheTorpedo. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, p. ^76. It has hitherto been believed that the action of the electric organ of the torpedo is momentary only; that it becomes charged under the influence of nervous action, and discharged immediately that action ceases, somewhat like soft iron under the influence of an electric current. Such, however, Matteucci thinks, is not the real state of the case. The electric organ is always charged. It may be shown by experiment that the action of that organ never ceases, and that round the body of the torpedo, and probably of every other electric fish, there is a continual circulation of electricity in the liquid medium in which the animal is immersed. In fact, when the electric organ, or even a frag- ment of it, is removed from the living fish, and placed between the ends of a galvanometer, the needle remains deflected at a constant an°le for twenty or thirty hours, or even longer. The electric organ, or a portion of it, detached from the fish and kept at the temperature of freezing, preserves its electro-motive properties for four, six, or even eight days; and an organ which has been kept for twenty-four hours in a vessel surrounded with a frigorific mixture of ice and salt, is found to possess an electro-motive power as great as that of the organ recently detached from the living fish. The electric organ thus retains its functional activity long after both muscular and nervous excitability have been extinguished. It would thus seem that the electric apparatus becomes charged and acts independently of the influence of the nerves ; but that influence re > news and renders persistent the activity of the apparatus. We know that a discharge may be brought about by the action of the will in the Jiving animal, or by the excitation of the nerves of the organ. Matteucci [says, that the organ does not, under the influence of the nerves, act as an induction apparatus, the operation being more analogous to that of a secondary pile,'' created, through the influence of the nerves, in each S constituent cell of the organ.50 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. The nervous excitation -which causes muscular contraction, the author adds, develops heat, generates mechanical force, and consumes chemical affinity; nnd as the electro-motive apparatus of the muscle operates through means of that affinity, it must get weakened, like a pile in which the acid has hecome weaker. In the torpedo, on the other hand, there is neither heat nor mechanical force produced, and the electro-motive appa- ratus is set up again, as it were, through the influence of the nerves, after the manner of a secondary pile. Matteucci.—On the Electro-motive Power of the Electric Organ of the Torpedo. Compt. Rend., vol. 1, p. 918, 21st May, i860. New Experiments on the same. Compt. Rend., August, vol. li, p. 193. In the first communication with the above title Matteucci establishes the three following propositions: 1. The electro-motive power of the organ of the torpedo, such as it has been defined, exists independently of the immediate action of the nervous system. He adds, that the electro-motive power of the organ is as great in animals killed with woorara as in those that have died without poison. 2. The electro-motive power of the oi-gan is notably increased, and this increase persists for a certain period when the nerves of the organ have been excited several times in succession, so as to obtain a certain number of successive discharges. 3. The electro-motive power of the organ is independent of the nature of the gas in which it has been left during twenty or thirty hours. In the second communication, Matteucci says that he has repeated his experiments relative to the second proposition, and that few electrical experiments can be more readily made with such uniform results. He adds that the nerves act in two different ways on the electric organ— (1) there is a nervous action which induces the secretion of the matters which form the electrical apparatus, and keeps it constantly charged; (2) there are nerves which exert their influence in producing the instan- taneous discharge of the electricity. Rumak.—Centripetal Action of the Constant Galvanic Current on the Nerves of Man. Compt. Rend., August, i860, p. 327. In applying a constant galvanic current to one of the lower limbs, in cases of hemiplegia, paraplegia, catalepsy, and other affections of the nerve-centres, Remak obtained visible effects in the opposite limb. As some may doubt that the movements in the opposite limb were due to the centripetal action of the galvanism on the nerve-centre, and may suppose that the electrical current had passed directly through the tissues from one limb to another, the author cites the following experiments. In 1858, a strong galvanic current was applied to the sciatic nerve of a man, aged 45, who during twelve years had suffered from incomplete paraplegia of the lower extremities, arising apparently from progressive atrophy of the spinal cord; little or no contraction was obtained in the limb whose nerve was being acted upon, whereas instantaneous and violent contractions in the opposite limb were observed. In 1859, the author made a similar experiment on a woman, aged 48, who, ten years before, was struck with complete paraplegia of the lower extremities, and incomplete paraplegia of the back and upper limbs.NERVOUS SYSTEM. 51 Two years previous to the onset of the paraplegia, this patient had shown symptoms of progressive atrophy of the spinal cord. When galvanism was applied to one of the sciatics of this woman, powerful contractions of the muscles supplied by the corresponding nerve in the opposite limb were obtained. Occasionally the muscles of the limb to which the galvanism was applied contracted, in which case, however, it was found that even here the contractions were not due to a direct, but to a reflex, nervous action. The most remarkable fact observed was that, after a time, the patient be°-an to have power over the muscles which contracted in consequence of the reflex stimulus. She so far, indeed, regained the partial use of her limbs that she was able to sit in a chair unsupported ; and, curiously enough, as the power of the will increased, the reflex action on the application of galvanism diminished. In No. 10, at p. 439, of the ' Journ. de la Phys.,' will be found a letter from Remalc, on the "Action of the Constant Galvanic Current," and at p. 440 some additional remarks by Chauveau on the same subject. Martin-Magron and Em. Fernet. —On the Influence which Polarization, in the action of Electricity, may exert on the Nervous System. Compt. Rend., p. 592, 19th March, i860. The above-named observers found: 1. That the effects of a galvanic current traversing a nerve during a certain period of time in the same direction, apparently become rapidly diminished in intensity. 2. That an electrical current made to pass through the same nerve in an opposite direction to the first current apparently gradually increases in intensity, especially at first. 3. The repeated passage of a current in an opposite direction appears to restore to the first current its power; but the passing of the electricity during a few minutes in the direction of the first current again causes a diminution in the intensity. From these results Magron and Fernet conclude—(1) that a current of electricity, even extremely feeble, is able to produce a resistance to the passage of a relatively stronger current, in traversing nerve-tissue; (2) that the feeble current induces a state of polarization in the tissue, which produces a current in an opposite direction to that proceeding from the battery. Hence the secondary current appears to diminish the action of the current from the battery on the galvanometer if the latter current be passed always in the same direction. While, on the other hand, the secondary current increases the intensity of that from the battery, when the direction of the latter is changed. It has frequently been observed that muscular contractions are always most violent at the moment the direction of the continued current through a nerve is changed, and it has been supposed that this arises from the nerve becoming fatigued, and consequently less impressionable to the current in one direction, while, on the other hand, it becomes more sensitive to the action of the current proceeding in the opposite direction. Martin- Ma gron and Fernet believe that these results are entirely due to the state of polarization above described.ItEPOHT O.N THE INSTITUTES 01'' MEDICINE. 52 A. Chauveau.—Theory of the Physiological Effects produced by Elec- tricity on the Animal Organism, both in the form of the Instantaneous and of the Continued Current. Journ. de la Pliys., April and July, i860, pp. 274, 458, and 15.34. Chauveau's memoir, which extends over nearly eighty pages, is of an entirely original character, and places the theory of animal electricity on a new hasis. To attempt, however, giving an abstract would be futile, as, without the woodcuts with which the paper is profusely illustrated, no intelligible notion of the author's views can be given. J. Rosenthal.—On the so-called Vallian Law. Allg. Med. Centralztg., No. 16, p. 126. Canst., vol. i, p. 101. The author concludes, from his investigations, that instantly after death irritability increases considerably throughout the nerve, whether the nerve be connected with the cord or not, and that afterwards the irritability gradually diminishes, until, at length, it entirely disappears. The rise and fall take place with some slight differences at different parts of the nerve ; but the period within which they occur becomes regularly shorter as the muscle is receded from. Division of the nerve materially accelerates the phenomena. J. Rosenthal.—On the Specific Energies of the Nerves. Berlin, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 91. The writer defends the theory of the specific energies of the nerves of sense, and relates an experiment to prove the existence of subjective sensa- tion of taste from galvanic excitation without the interference of electrolytic action. He conducted the current from a Daniel's battery through zinc electrodes into vessels filled with a solution of sulphate of zinc, one of which was connected, by means of a pipe containing fluid, with a solution of common salt, into which the observer's hand was plunged. The other was similarly connected with a glass of distilled water, out of which a bundle of filter paper projected. The tongue, applied to the paper, was sensible of an acid taste when the stream entered, and a feebly alkaline taste as it issued from the paper. Blue test-paper suffered no change. A. V. Bezold.—Contributions to the Physiology of Electrotone. Pre- liminary Communication. Allg. med. Centralztg., 1S59, p. 25. Canst., vol. i, p. 100. With the aid of the myographion, it was ascertained that, if the sciatic nerve of the frog be traversed by an ascending or descending continuous electric current, and the portion of the nerve either above or below the poles of the battery be irritated by an " interruptive shock," a longer period elapses ere the gastrocnemius contracts than when the nerve is not polarized. When the constant current has been some time in operation, the duration of the contraction is also increased. Both of the effects now described increase with the duration and intensity of the polarizing current, and with the extent of nerve through which it passes. These facts show that the electrotonic state of the nerve retards the transmission of stimuli through it. E. Pfluger.—Researches on the Physiology of Electrotone. Berlin, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 97. In this work the author gives a detailed accouut of his researches intoNERVOUS SYSTEM. 53 the effects of continuous currents on nerves, and of his inquiries in other kindred subjects. Electric irritation acts with an energy proportional to the distance from the muscle at which the nerve is excited. This law holds good with regard to chemical irritants also. A solution of common salt, which has no effect when applied low down on the nerve, induces tetanic spasms in the muscles when applied higher up. It frequently happens that the portions of the sacral plexus which are nearer the sections are less susceptible than those which are more remote from them. This phenomenon is connected, Pfliiger thinks, with the known course in which the nerve loses vitality, i.e. from the centre towards the cirumference. If a direct continuous current he transmitted through a certain extent of nerve, it may he demonstrated that the irritability of that portion of the nerve which lies in front of the portion through which the current passes is considerably increased ; such an increase occurs even when the electric current falls vertically on the nerve. As the excitability of a nerve is differently modified on the two sides of the spot at which the continuous current is applied, the author desig- nates the condition which exists at the negative electrode " catelectrotone," and that which appears at the positive electrode " anelectrotone." If the electrotonic alteration be propagated downwards from the part traversed by the current towards the muscle, it is called descending, and when in the opposite direction, ascending. The author names that condition which is found between the poles of the continuous current intra-polar electrotone, and that which is met with beyond these limits extra-polar electrotone. The muscular contractions following upon the stimulation of the portion of the nerve which is catelectrotonized in an ascending direction, are the more intense the nearer the part of the nerve stimulated is to the. intra-polar region. The exaltation of susceptibility rapidly diminishes as we recede from the negative electrode, and it at last entirely disappears. If the intensity of the polarizing ascending current be more and more increased, the contractions determined by the irritation of the extra-polar catelectrotonized spot rise to a certain maximum, but by a still further intensification of the current the contractions begin to diminish. This peculiar effect of very strong currents probably depends on incapacity of the intra-polar tract any longer to transmit the stimulus to the muscles. E. Pfluger. — On the Cause of Tetanus produced by Interruption of the Electric Current. A Contribution to our knowledge of the Law of Muscidar Contraction. Reichert's u. Du Bois's Ai-chiv, 1859, p. 133. Canst., vol. i, p. 100. If a descending electric current of moderate intensity be transmitted through a nerve for a short time and then suddenly interrupted, the ensuing tetanic spasm is engendered by the changes occurring in that part of the nerve which had previously been anelectrotonized. The " point of indifference " being situated about the middle of the nerve, sec- tion at that spot, the author inferred, would remove the tetanus. On the other hand, if an ascending instead of a descending electric current had been employed, the division of the nerve at the point alluded to would fail to remove the tetanus. Experiment confirmed the supposition.REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 5-A A. v. BbZOUD nnd J. Rosenthal.—On the Law of Muscular Contractions. Reichcrt's u. Du Bois's Arch., 1859, P- l3l- Canst., vol. i, p. 95. The authors confirm the fact that feeble ascending or descending electric currents conducted through the fresh nerve induce contractions only with their closure. This law gives place to another as the nerve gradually loses vitality, for a period then arrives during which both currents, at their opening as well as at their closure, are attended by contractions. Next ensues a stage when the ascending current produces only an opening, and the descending only a closing, contraction. E. Harless.—On Vital Irritation of the Nerves. (Reprint.) Canst., vol. i, p. 95. This observer also finds that, in the living nerve, muscular contractions occur only with the closure of the current, whether it be ascending or descending. In the divided nerve, and especially in the neighbourhood of the section, the double effect occurs first, then the contraction, with the interruption of the ascending and with the commencement of the descending current, takes place. This change in the properties of the nerve is no sign, the author thinks, of failing vitality; nor does it even indicate any profound alteration in the irritability, for the irritability of the nerve is augmented by desiccation, and lessened by its exposure to a moist warmth of 300 R. In either case, nevertheless, the change of law does take place. The author states, however, that in all cases the current in the reposing nerve is reversed. E. Harless.—On the Influence of the Length of an Irritated Portion of Nerve on Muscular Contraction. Munchn. gel. Anz., 1859, No. 25, p. 201; No. 26, p. 209 ; No. 27, p. 217. Canst., vol. i, p. 95. The author sought to trace the manner in which muscular contraction is affected by submitting different lengths of the nerve to the electric current. The great sciatic between the sacral plexus aud the gastrocne- mius was selected for experiment. The results of his researches show that those portions of the nerve which are nearest the cord are the most susceptible of irritation; yet, that the irritability does not diminish at a uniform rate as we approach the periphery, for there are points in the nerve at which it is strikingly less than in the adjoining portions. Prof. Budge.—Some Observations on Electric Phenomena presented by open Induction-circuits. PoggendorfF's Annalen, 1859, p. 482. Canst., vol. 1, p. 24. Budge has found that, unlike the bipolar, the unipolar current is more painfully felt on the dry than on the moist skin. A current that is imperceptible when applied to the moist tongue occasions on the dry brow a smart prickling sensation, which disappears, however, when the spot is moistened. The unipolar current excites a half-dried nerve better than the bipolar current. It acts, too, with greatest energy when the electrode and the skin are not quite in contact. Points and angles are more favorable to its action than smooth surfaces ; and even with perfect isolation, this current still produces twitchings.55 PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF FOOD, MEDICINE, ANT) POISON. Dr. 0. A. Cameron.—On the Philosophy of Food. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Jan. and succeeding numbers. Mr. Hunt.—Action of Medicines. Brit. Med. Journ., June 2d, p. 422. W. Busch.—On the Physiological Action of Chloroform. Verb. d. naturb. Ver. d. Rheinl. Jahrg., xv, p. jji. Dr. Cuarles Kidd. — On the Nature of Death from the Administration of Ancesthetics, especially Chloroform and Ether, as observed in Hospitals. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 22d, p. 747. Dr. F. W. Pavy.—The Physiological Effects of White Precipitate on Animals. Guy's Hosp. Rep., vol. vi, p. 483. Kolliker.—On WundVs Experiments ivith Conia and Salt. Verh. d. phys.-med. Ges. in Wiirzburg, 1859, vol. ix, part 2, 3, p. 55. Dr. B. W. Richardson. — The Influence of Oxygen on the Animal Body. Meeting Brit, Association, Oxford. Lancet, 7th July. Dr. Edward Smith.—The Action of Tea and Alcohol on the Animal Economy Contrasted. In a paper read before tbe British Association, at its Oxford meeting, Smitb contrasted the action of tea and alcobols, as deduced chiefly from his own inquiries, published in the ' Philosoph. Trans.,' for 18^9, and appended the conditions to which each is severally suited or otherwise. In reference to tea, he stated the action to be as follows when taken in moderate doses : 1. It increases all vital actions, as shown by the increased evolution of carbon by the lungs and of nitrogen by the kidneys, the last fact being attested by the experiments of C. G. Lehmann and himself. 2. It increases the ease, frequency, and depth of respiration. 3. It does not increase pulsation. 4. It increases the action of the skin by promoting evaporation and loss of heat. 5. It does not diminish or disturb nervous, mental, or muscular actions, but probably increases them, and is not followed by reaction. In larger doses, nausea or narcotism sometimes occurs. Small doses (twenty-five grains), frequently repeated, have fourfold influence over the respiration of 150 grains taken at once. The most suitable dose is fifty grains. The addition of acids increases pulsation, lessens the action upon the skin, and renders it more stimulating, whilst alkalies have the con- trary effect, and caustic alkalies destroy it. In its application, it is unfitted to the following conditions : 1. In the absence of food, and therefore at breakfast. 2. To the ill-fed ; to those of spare habit, with rapid vital actions ; to the young ; to prison dietary ; to support exertion, except with much food; to those who perspire too freely ; to low temperatures, except with excess of fat food. The author considers it to be most suited to the following conditions : In the later hours of the day, when the vital powers are lessening ;56 HEPOET ON THE INSTITUTES OE MEDICINE. after much food; to the corpulent; to those whose skin is habitually dry ; to those exposed to a burning sun ; in recovery from suspended animation ; and to those who take excess of food. The leading ideas are that tea increases all vital actions (including the transformation of the hydro-carbons) and the action of the skin, and is therefore suited to conditions of temporary excess of food and heat, and to some forms of defective assimilation. It lessens or increases the waste of the system, in proportion as there is a due supply of food, and the food is duly assimilated. Smith then shows that this statement of its action and application cor- responds with the instinctive habits of mankind, and when it is taken by the ill-fed it acts beneficially by promoting the digestion of the starchy food and by supplying warmth. The author also referred to coffee, and stated that its action upon the excretion of carbon and nitrogen is nearly the same as (perhaps less than) that of tea ; but it differs in lessening the action of the skin. It thus saves heat, and is more suited to persons and conditions in which the skin acts too freely. It often acts upon the bowels. In reference to alcohols, the author stated— I. That alcohol is not the only valuable element in spirits, wine, and beer, and is not prescribed in place of these compounds. i. Each kind of alcohol is selected according to the case, and is known to have its own special action, both as a curative and a morbific agent. He then noticed the effects of the various spirits upon the conscious- ness, senses, muscles, heart, skin, mucous membrane, salivary glauds, and respiration, and found that the action commences within three minutes, attains its maximum in about forty minutes, and continues nearly two hours. The sequence of the phenomena are as follows : 1. Upon the heart. 2. Upon the brain with consciousness, mental and sensual perception. 3. Upon the cerebro-spinal tract. 4. Upon the respiratory tract. 5. Upon the sympathetic system. Brandy and gin lessen the quantity of carbon evolved ; whilst alcohol, rum, and ale, increase it. Whisky varies in its action. The essential action of alcohol is to lessen the action of the skin and to increase the force of the heart, whilst the effect upon the respiration is not a principal result. It lessens waste of heat, and, therefore, of food. The aromas of wines lessen respiratory changes ; whilst the gluten and sugar of beer increases them. Alcohol is fitted for cases in which it is desirous to increase the force of the heart and to lessen the dispersion of heat by the skin. Aromas have an opposing or modifying action, and are fitted for cases of excessive vital action. Beers are especially suited to those who have deficient powers of assimi- lation, as well as defective force of the heart. The author then showed that the actions of alcohol and tea are directly opposed to each other, but that those of coffee and alcohol to a great extent agree. Beers, by their power of promoting assimilation of food, so fur agree57 PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF FOOD, ETC. with both tea and coffee; but as they contain alcohol, they correspond more closely with the latter. Dr. Marcet.—An Experimental Inquiry into the Action of Alcohol on the Nervous System. Head to the British Association for the Advancement of Science, at the Meeting held at Aberdeen, in 1859, and printed in extenso in the ' Medical Times and Gazette' for March 3d, 17th, and 31st, i860. The object of this communication is to establish, by a series of experi- ments, the mode of action of alcohol on the nervous centres, or rather the channel through which alcohol acts on these centres. When a spirituous fluid is taken into the stomach, its influence maybe conveyed to the brain, spinal cord, and sympathetic system, by different channels. According to some physiologists, the properties of alcohol are exerted on the nervous centres through the nerves only; others believe that intoxication does not occur unless the poison has come in contact with the brain, by means of the circulation; finally, it is thought by some that alcohol acts on the nervous centres in both ways. In order to contribute to the solution of this question, Marcet undertook the investigations which form the sub- ject of the above-named paper. The author's experiments are divided into three series. In the first he studied the action of alcohol on the healthy animal, choosing the frog on the one hand, and the dog on the other. In the second the nerves supplying the parts placed in contact with the alcohol were divided, the circulation remaining undisturbed; frogs only were used in this series of experiments. In the third series the circulation in the parts in contact with the alcohol was arrested, so that none of the poison could possibly be carried to the nervous centres ; care being, at the same time, taken to leave the nervous connexions between the parts poisoned and the nerve- centres entire. Frogs and dogs were employed in these experiments. The chief conclusions to be drawn from the experiments related in this paper are as follows : 1. That alcohol acts principally, though not exclusively, on the nerve- centres by means of absorption, and consequently through the circulation. 2. That alcohol exerts a slight, but decided, action on the nerve-centres, through the nerves, independently of the circulation. 3. That the action transmitted through the nerves maybe of two kinds— («) It may give rise to a shock, or temporary complete suspension of sensibility and motility (with the exception perhaps of that of the eye- lids), although respiration continues. (6) It may produce no other visible effect than hastening death. Lallemand, Perrin, and Duroy.—On the Action of Alcohol, of Anaes- thetics, and of Carbonic Acid Gas, on the Cerebrospinal Nervous System. Compt. Rend., Sept., i860, p. 400. _ The authors detail several experiments which they performed, and give the following as their conclusions: 1. Alcohnl, chloroform, ether, and amylene, act directly and primarily on the nervous system. 2. Carbonic acid and the oxide of carbon act directly and primarily on the blood, which they modify, and it is by means of this modification of58 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. the blood that the secondary phenomena of insensibility are produced. These substances, therefore, the authors say, are only pseudo-ansesthetics. Demeaux.— Unfortunate Influence exercised on the Child Ly Conception occurring during the Intoxication of the Father. Gaz. Med. de Paris, Oct., i860, p. 657. The author observes that, among thirty-six epileptics that he lias had occasion to examine during the course of twelve years, and whose history is well known to him, five were conceived while the father was intoxicated. He has further observed two children affected with congenital paraplegia in the same family, when, from the distinct statement of the mother, con- ception took place during drunkenness. Lastly, in the case of a young male lunatic, aged seventeen, and an idiot, aged five years, the author states that he has been able to discover the same cause. Beknard.—On the General Effects of Medicinal Substances. Lect. XIV. Medical Times and Gazette, May 26th, p. 515. Bernard thinks that medicines, as well as poisons, exert their power exclusively upon certain histological elements, even in those cases where they appear to prodnce a general perturbation of the whole system. Thus, for instance, he says that strychnia localizes its action entirely upon the sensitive nerves ; and that wherever the torrent of the circulation conveys it, all the properties of the recurrent nervous fibres are destroyed ; so that even before reaching the spinal cord it has already paralysed the extre- mities of the nerves which revert towards their central axis. On the other hand, woorara concentrates upon the motor nerves alone its noxious influ- ence, and, wherever it meets them, paralyses at once their properties; and in this manner, without doing the slightest injury to glands, muscles, vessels, or other tissues, it arrests at one blow the most indispensable functions of life. But the action of poisons introduced into the blood is not invariably directed towards the nervous system. All the other tissues, and even the blood itself, have their own peculiar poisons, capable of modifying their vital properties. Both digitalis and the juice of the upas antiar enjoy the power of destroying muscular contractility throughout the entire system. Bernard then adds that there is, however, a difference in the in- tensity with which these poisons act on the various orders of mus- cles, a difference with which the stimulating properties of electricity, which act so powerfully upon certain systems of muscles, and are comparatively so feeble as regards others, has already rendered us familiar. But the uervous system, after the introduction of these poisons into the economy, remains wholly unimpaired; and through the suspended action of the heart alone is it in their power to produce death. A substance of a very different kind, the oxide of carbon, neither attacks the muscles nor the nerves. It acts exclusively on the blood- globules, which ought to be viewed in the light of a living tissue, as well as other histological elements. Introduced into the lungs, the oxide of carbon fixes upon the globules which circulate in the pulmonary vessels; and such is its affinity for the blood-cells, that a perfectly stable chemical compound appears to be produced, which the presence of oxygen is no longer able to destroy. In this manner the function which devolves upon the blood-corpuscles is at once destroyed.PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF FOOD, ETC. 59 The action of medicines resembles, in every respect, that of poisons, and, according to Bernard, .nerves, muscles, blood-globules, and other tissues, enjoy peculiar vital properties, the intensity of which is modified through medical interference, sometimes for the purpose of increasing, sometimes for that of lowering, their activity; and the action of foreign bodies, whe- ther medicinal or poisonous, can be rendered general only through the nervous or vascular system. But, in this respect, a wide distinction arises between sensitive and motor fibres, which experiments on living animals have placed in a strong light. Let, he says, for example, woorara be injected into an animal's veins, or simply introduced under the skin after the vessels of one of its extremities have been tied, and the motor nerves are paralysed throughout the system, and it becomes impossible to produce muscular contraction by acting upon them; but the nerves of that single I limb, the vessels of which have been tied, alone retain their physiological power. He concludes his remarks by saying, that the effects of medicinal agents are to be explained by the modifications they produce in the primi- tive elements of which our tissues are composed. G. Bodington.—The Physiological Effects of Opium. Brit. Med. Journ., June 9th, p. 455. Bodington believes that the possibility of giving large doses of opium in cases of delirium tremens, not only with impunity, but even with ad- vantage, arises from the circumstance that alcohol has to a certain extent the power of controlling the physiological effects of opium. Hence it is that, when the system is, so to speak, saturated with alcohol, opium becomes comparatively innocuous. The author further states that the use of opium should be specially guided by the previous habits of the patient, and that the modern salts of the drug seem to be the most dangerous form in which it can be given. " The native opium contains constituent ingredients of a contrary character, which are counteractive of each other. Laudanum, holding all these in solution, is the safest form, inasmuch as the alcohol, the solvent, in some measure acts as an antidote." Dr. Gk orge D. Gibb.—On the Value of the Sanguinaria Canadensis, as a Remedial Agent. Glas. Med. Journ., July, i860, p. 121. 1. An infusion of the root produces no influence on plants while they are in the ground ; but if removed and immersed in the infusion, they droop and die. 2. Insects immersed in an infusion of the root die with spasmodic movements of the chest and wings. 3. Fenwick, of Montreal, found that a large dose acted as a powerful irritant poison on dogs and cats, causing frothing at the mouth, vomiting, purging, thirst, dilatation of the pupils, impairment of the vision, convul- sions, coma, and death. One drachm of the freshly powdered root proved fatal to a young cat, with the above symptoms, in four hours; while two drachms given to a dog was fatal within the same period. After death, patches of injection, redness, and softening of the mucous membrane of \ the stomach and intestines were found. When given to men in small * doses, digestion is excited, the pulse accelerated, and the cerebral functions I exalted. In larger doses it produces nausea, and acts upon the circulation c something like digitalis. An overdose produces violent vomiting, burning » sensation in the stomach, tormenting thirst, faintness, vertigo, indistinctREPORT ON THB INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. i;o vision, and great prostration of strength. Three women died with these symptoms the day after drinking, by mistake, a quantity of the tincture of blood-root. When applied to the skin, no effect, beyond staining it, is observed. Dr. Wood states, however, that it produces inflammation when kept in contact with the skin. Sniffed up the nostrils, it excites violent inflammation, and if a drop of the fresh juice comes in contact with the conjunctiva, an intense congestion is the immediate result. Regarding the action of the seeds and leaves, some slight difference of opinion still exists ; Barton says the seeds act like those of the Datura stramonium, producing fever, delirium, &c. ; when chewed, the leaves produce a slightly harsh, but not acrid, taste, and some dryness of the fauces. Richard Hughes.— On the Influence of Belladonna on the Pneumo- ffastric Nerve. Brit. Med. Journ., 26th May, p. 393. Dryness of the throat and dysphagia are two of the earliest and most constant symptoms of the influence of belladonna. Hughes asks, " On what do they depend ?" The pneumogastric nerves preside alike over the muscular fibres and secreting apparatus of the alimentary canal from the fauces to the sto- mach, and, as pointed out by Bernard, if they be divided during digestion, the gastric juice ceases to flow, and the mucous membrane, from being tense and turgid, becomes withered and pale. If such be the effect of loss of pneumogastric influence on the stomach, similar phenomena— check of secretion and diminished muscular power—higher up the alimen- tary canal ought to be referred to depression of the influence of the same nerve; consequently, he says, the dryness of the throat and dysphagia caused by belladonna must result from a depressing influence exercised by it on the pneumogastric nerve. That such is the fact will further appear from a consideration of its effects on disease. Hooping-cough and asthma, spasmodic affections, in which irritation of the pneumogastric nerve is at the bottom of the phe- nomena, are both singularly under the control of belladonna and its con- geners. Valentin found constriction of the trachea and bronchial tubes follow galvanization of the pneumogastric, while, on the other hand, these tubes have been found lax, and have refused to contract under the strongest stimuli, in animals poisoned by belladonna and stramonium. In obstinate spasmodic vomiting, where the pneumogastric is the seat of the irritation, belladonna has been found very beneficial. The obstinate vomiting in pregnancy has also been cured with belladonna. Here, again, says the author, as the pneumogastric is the motor nerve of the muscular coat of the stomach, the sedative influence exercised by belladonna upon this nerve explains the phenomenon. Some further remarks are made by the same author on this subject in the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 8th Sept., p. 706. Richard Hughes.—On the Significance of the Contraction and Dilata- tion of the Pupil produced by Opium and Belladonna respectively. Lond. Med. Rev., August, p. 92. It is now well known that the muscular fibres of the iris are supplied by two distinct nerves, emanating from different divisions of the nervous system. The circular fibres of the iris receive a branch from the thirdPHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF FOOD, ETC. 61 cranial nerve, and are, therefore, under the influence of the cerebro-spinal system ; while the longitudinal muscular fibres are supplied by filaments from the sympathetic. Hence it is that dilatation of the pupil follows diminished power of the third nerve, as in compression of the brain ; while contraction of the pupil occurs after section of the cervical sympa- thetic. The balance of power between the two sets of nerves may be destroyed in another way; thus, for example, contraction of the pupil may result from reflex excitement of the third nerve by the stimulus of strong light acting through the optic; while, on the other hand, dilatation of the pupil may arise from galvanic stimulation of the sympathetic in the neck. After these and some other preliminary remarks, the author passes on to say that the state of the pupil is a marked feature of the influence of opium on the one hand, and of belladonna on the other, the former causing contraction, the latter dilatation, of the pupil. The question now arises—by what process does opium contract, and belladonna dilate, the pupil? Does the contraction of the pupil in opium-poisoning depend upon an excitation of the third or a paralysis of the sympathetic nerve? Our author thinks that the influence of opium results, not from its stimulating the third, but from its depressing effect on the sympathetic, nerve. He cites a number of facts in support of this view, and then goes on to say that belladonna and its congeners dilate the pupil, not in consequence of depressing the third nerve, but of the stimulating influence they exert on the sympathetic nerve. So that opium may, on the one hand, be re- garded as the paralyser, belladonna, on the other hand, as the exciter, of the sympathetic nervous system. Heisch.—The Arsenic-Eaters of Styria. Ed. Med. Journ., June, p. 1137. Roscoe.—On the alleged Practice of Arsenic-Eating in Styria. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 17th, p. 494. Heisch says, if human testimony be worth anything, the fact of the existence of arsenic-eaters i3 placed beyond a doubt. The arsenic is taken pure in some warm liquid, as coffee, fasting, beginning with a bit the size of a pin's head, and increasing it to that of a pea. The complexion and general appearance are much improved, and the persons using arsenic seldom look as old as they really are. The first dose is always followed by slight symptoms of poisoning, such as burning pain in the stomach and sickness, but not very severe. Once begun, it can only be left off by very gradually diminishing the dose, as a sudden cessation causes symptoms of poisoning, which may be speedily followed by death. Arsenic-eaters, according to Heisch's authority, are long-lived, and peculiarly exempt from infectious diseases. Roscoe confirms Heisch's statements. Roscoe was supplied by Pro- fessor Pebal, of Lemberg, with a series of letters written by seventeen medical men in Styria to the Government Medical Inspector at Gratz concerning the alleged practice. All the letters acknowledge the general prevalence of a belief that certain persons are in the habit of taking arsenic in quantities usually supposed sufficient to produce death. Many of the medical men had no experience of the practice; others described certain0» REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. cases which had not come under their personal notice, but which they had been told of by trustworthy people, whose names they give ; others, again, report cases which they have themselves observed. White arsenic is well known in Styria by the name of " Hidrach," and Dr. Knappe, of Oberzehring, states that he saw a man, thirty years of age, in robust health, take, on the 22d February, i860, a piece of arsenious arid weighing four grains and a half, and on the 23d another piece weighing five grains and a half. The urine contained arsenic. On the 24th the man went away in his usual health. He Baid he was in the habit of taking a similar quantity three or four times each week. Dr. Holler, of Hartberg, states that he and other persons named in his report guarantee that they are together acquainted with forty persons who eat arsenic. Dr. Forcher, of Gr'atz, gives a list of eleven* people in his neighbourhood who indulge in the same substance. Roscoe concludes that the evidence brought forward decidedly proves that arsenic is widely distributed in Styria, and regularly eaten by many of the inhabitants. Dr. B. W. Richardson.—On the Physiological and Therapeutical Pro- perties of the Peroxide of Hydrogen. Lancet, Oct. 20th, p. 300. Richardson calls attention to tbe fact that blood freed from fibrin absorbs the oxygen from the peroxide, and if venous blood, becomes arterial, with a rise in tbe temperature ; while washed fibrin and cellular tissue in the fresh state evolve the oxygen. Albumen, urea, gelatin, fibrous membrane, and skin, produce no change. All kinds of sugar, when brought into contact with the peroxide, are decomposed, and evolve carbonic acid. Starch un- dergoes the same modification. All narcotics that are miscible in water pre- vent the peroxide from exerting its oxidizing power. The author further states that " a weak solution oxidizes blood; but this effect can be stopped by the action of alkaloids and of narcotics. The peroxide supports the life of fishes ; but the body of the animal causes rapid evolution of the gas. The solution injected into the left side of the heart of an animal restores the irritability, but appears to have au opposite effect on the right side. Injected into the arterial system immediately after death, it seems to re- store to the muscles the power of contracting on the application of an irritant. It suspends to a considerable extent post-mortem rigidity, and it reduces spasmodic action excited by such bodies as ammonia and hydrocyanic acid." J. Bernard.—On the Chemical Agents of Disease in the Living Body. Lecture VII, Med. Times and Gaz., Feb., p. 183. Bernard points out how animals, debilitated by want of proper nourish- ment, have the power of resisting the action of certain poisons better than animals in perfect health ; while, on the other hand, the healthy animals are less liable to the action of certain diseases. If, therefore, he says, an animal being given, it is our purpose to preserve it from the action of woorara, or similar poisons, we must lower its forces. If, on the contrary, we intend to preserve it from contagious diseases, we must increase them by nil possible means. When speaking of the mode of production of a physiological virus, and of a morbid poison, he says, that it is a singular fact that in so general a disease (hydrophobia), the virus, which alone is capable of transmitting the affection, should be exclusively localised within one single apparatusPHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OP POOD, ETC. 63 (salivary) w ithout existing in the blood at large. While, on the other hand, in several virulent diseases, such as glanders for example, not only the slimy secretion that escapes from the mouth and nose, but even the blood itself contains the morbid principle. In the contagious pneumonia of horned cattle, it appears that the lung is the exclusive seat of the poison, for neither the blood nor any of the fluids of the economy (those of the lung excepted) is endowed with the property of propagating the disease. For these and other reasons, Bernard concludes that the history of specific diseases offers nothing which cannot rationally be explained; but the difficulty lies in the discovering of the physiological process in which the virus originates. Nothing is easier than to produce putrid affections in sound animals. Thus, when transfusion is performed under ordinary circumstances, no accidents are produced'; but when the blood is allowed to remain for a short space of time in contact with the atmosphere, and the serum then injected into the vessels of a healthy animal, symptoms of putrid resorption are observed, and the animal dies after exhibiting all the characteristic symptoms of putrid affection. In Lecture xxiii, " On the Analogy between Morbid Causes and Poisons," Bernard remarks that, although, in the majority of cases, the results of post-mortem examinations enable us to ascertain the direct and immediate cause of death, our expectations are often deceived in this respect; and we are unable to account for the cessation of life, in consequence of the organs being apparently healthy. Morbid anatomy, he thinks, cannot be considered as the key to all the phenomena of disease, for it explains nothing beyond the mere mechanical causes of death ; and therefore if we wish to acquire a deeper insight into the secrets of living nature, we must follow other modes of investigation. On experimenting on the abdominal nerves, Bernard has frequently met with cases where the animals died before any symptoms of inflammation made their appearance. And Chossat's researches on the effects of starvation equally afford similar results. For example, a pigeon, which has been kept fasting for a considerable length of time, instantaneously dies when his claws are nipped ; while if not interfered with, the animal's life is usually prolonged for several days. In such a case, no alteration in the tissues is met with, beyond those resulting from inanition. Chossat attributes the deatli of the animal to syncope. In fact, adds Bernard, the heart's motion is momentarily arrested, when a sensitive nerve is painfully excited; it is therefore quite possible that, in animals reduced to a state of great debility, a slight sensation of pain would immediately produce death. As regards poisons, they may be divided into two classes. Some poisons give rise to stable and definite chemical compounds, are retained within the economy, and may be discovered after death. Others are speedily expelled from the body, and leave no visible marks of their passage. In tlie first case, permanent and incurable effects are produced; in the second, a transitory action is alone exerted, and when the patient re- covers, the noxious principle has entirely disappeared. 0. Weber.—Experiments ivith Chloroform. Verb. d. Naturhist. Ver. d. Rheinl. Jahrg. xv, p. 66, and vol. xvi, p. 26. Canst., vol. i, p. in. In animals poisoned with chloroform, normal respiration may fre-REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 01. quently be restored by galvanizing the phrenic nerves, or by performin< J artificial respiration by means of a bellows attached to a tube introj duced into the trachea. Marshall Hall's method does not succeed ii reviving rabbits. • Eulknruiig and Eiihuniiaus.—The Action of Digitalis on the Extirpalei Heart; and of Concentrated Solutions of Metallic Salts on the Mote Nerves of the Frog. Med. Centr.—Zeitg., vol. xxviii, pp. 98 ant J 102. Schmidt, vol. cvii, p. 160. The authors employed a solution of digitalin, of very moderate strength (half a grain to the ounce of water), and found that, if the under third o,! a frog's heart was held in it, the pulsations soon ceased. The pulsations recommenced, however, on the removal of the heart from the solution. When a solution of digitalin of half the above strength was employed, the pulsations of the heart, instead of being arrested, increased in frequency, and force. It was curious to observe, however, that every now and then: there was a pause, and that as the length of the pauses increased, thee number of pulsations (between the pauses ?) augmented. In an experi- ment with another frog's heart, and a still weaker solution (gr. j to 5viij),. the same phenomena were observed. The pauses were not, however, soj regular, and the pulsations became slowly fewer and fewer, while the* duration of each contraction was proportionally lengthened. The heart, continued to pulsate during two hours and a half. In their experiments on the action of concentrated solutions of metallic salts on the nerves, the authors again employed the frog. The sciaticc nerve was dissected out, and its cut (lower) end placed in the solution 1 conveniently held in a watch-glass. Solutions of the neutral acetate off lead, and a few other salts, were found not only to excite contractions in the muscles, but even to induce a state of tetanic spasm. The action is nott instantaneous, but begins in a few minutes. It thus seems that certain: chemical substances have a direct action on nervous matter. Dr. Rouget.—Observations on the Action of Nicotin on the Heart.— Journ. de la Phys., July, i860, p. 569. The common opinion is, that nicotin possesses in the highest degree? the power of rapidly destroying muscular irritability; the action oft* this substance on the heart, however, is singularly in opposition to this? opinion. In frogs killed by a drop of the solutiou of nicotin, the action of the- heart continues long after all trace of irritability has disappeared from the voluntary muscles. After the pulsations of the heart have diminished in 1 frequency and force, nicotin applied directly to the organ itself instantly increases their number; soon, however, a permanent contraction begins, and the pulsations cease. While the ventricle remains in this tonic con- vulsion, the cavity completely disappears. In birds and mammals killed by the inhalation of chloroform, the ventricles are immobile and dilated ; the right auricle only shows a few feeble movements. If the ventricle is pricked or galvanised while in this Btate, no, or only very slight, contractions are obtained, whereas the direct application of a drop of nicotin solution (strong) immediately induces 1 spontaneous contractions, and causes the organ to respond to me-PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OP FOOD, ETC. 65 chanical and galvanic stimuli. Lastly, the ventricles pass into a state of permanent contraction. Harvey.—An Experimental Inquiry into the Mode of Death produced by Aconite. Meet, of Brit. Association, Oxford. Lancet, July 7th. Harvey states that aconite acts first on the nerves, and then on the muscles, and that it stops the action of the heart. The experiments were made upon dogs, rabbits, and frogs, and the aconite was given in the form of Fleming's Tincture. Bernard.—Lect. XXVII. On Muscular Poisons. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 29th. There exist poisons which abolish directly contractility in the muscu- lar tissue. In this class are digitalis, upas antiar, and two"other substances known by the Indian names of Carrowal and Wao. The active principle of the yeratrum album, or veratrine, a substance now frequently employed in medicine, also exerts its influence upou the muscular fibre, to the ex- clusion of all other tissues ; and a large number of poisons, with the che- mical composition of which we are imperfectly acquainted, evidently belong to the same class. The principal result of their operation is sudden arrest of the heart's action, and in this respect they might be divided into two classes. Some act upon the heart before affecting the voluntary muscles ; this is the case with digitalis and upas antiar. Carrowal and wao, the author says, enjoy this sower m a still greater degree. The reverse is the case with other poisons, they act on the voluntary muscles first, and only paralyse the heart at a ater period. It is, therefore, he thinks, easy to conceive how wide is the iiflerence between the intensity with which these poisons act in differently >rganized animals Birds are instantly killed by a very small dose of -arrowal, mammals survive a few minutes, while frogs resist its action for a considerable space of time. The latter animals are able to survive a ew hours after the total ablation of the heart's action. Further on in the etobeautliorremarh, that in health the muscular tissue has a de- eded alkaline reaction ; but in the poisoned animals it becomes acid and IfeoSK tZCa? immedjat^ after death. Both of these changes spon- iaveelanif ft , ^ an'mals' but onl7 after twenty-four hours ave elapsed Ihe electrical property of the muscular tissue also under- oes a singular alteration, for, in the ordinary state of things the external ^:^t£J°Si^' I"' thC iLrnal °r -f surfa^negL ithyihp, w reVAerJe ,1S> h°wever, the case in animals poisoned led el! Xi-S h f1lAn?' ^ ,°Q T™* the P°i-°nedPMimalB nd Sy'entty ' * ^ " f°Und m°tio»less> r« In all such cases the muscular element alone is acted upon • for if nn oisoning an animal with one of these a-ents vou annlv » 1?? ** ' , ne of the limbs, and thus prevent the prison Z^Liu ?TZnZ* mse ot the limb thus preserved readdy obey its influence through tl,i rre.pond.ng nerves, thus proving that the muscular CTataT&Vta taVparSoeperS.lnterfered ^ ™™ ^alE It must not be supposed that the vital properties persist as Ion. 6 RS 5REPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. CG the pliysicnl and chemical phenomena continue. They are mutually independent ; for example, when a rabbit is killed by simple sec- tion of the medulla, both nervous excitability, muscular irritability, and the electric muscular current, disappear by degrees, and in a few hours are totally extinct; but if it be poisoned with upas antiar, a different result is obtained. In twenty-five or thirty seconds the normal irritability of the muscles disappears, but the electric current persists during four or five hours. In like manner, the alkaline reaction of the muscles is not' inseparably connected with their contractile power, nor the electro-tonic state of the nerves with the property of transmitting the impulse of the will. Bernard.—Lect. XXVI. On the Effects of Woorara. Med. Times and Gazette, 15th Sept., i860. Bernard states that there are some poisons which exert no influence on the adult, and are nevertheless fatal to the young; while, on the other hand, there are poisons which act powerfully on animals that have attained their full development, without being able to produce any direct effect upon the foetus. Woorara belongs to the latter class ; if, for example, a solution of it be injected into the veins of a pregnant female, the mother is destroyed, while the foetus survives, and only dies after a time in conse- quence of the total cessation of the parental circulation. This arises from the fact that the destructive powers of woorara are in proportion to the physiological activity of the respiratory functions. Hence it is that birds experience most rapidly its fatal effects, and the embryo, which closely resembles in many respects animals low in the scale of development, scarcely, if at all, suffers from them. There is yet another point to be taken into consideration, namely, that the action of woorara is entirely through the agency of the nervous system, and, consequently, the morei highly it is developed the more fatal will be the effects of the poison. In polypi, the action of this substance altogether disappears, in consequence of their possessing no nervous system for the poison to work upon. A. Moreau.—Action of Woorara on the Electric Torpedo. Gaz. Med. dfl Paris, 20th Oct., i860, p. 657. Moreau injected a solution of woorara into the dorsal vein of a torpedo, and immediately replaced it in water. xVfter a few seconds it ceased tol swim about, and very soon afterwards it even ceased to breathe. On no\^ placing a frog, with the medulla oblongata cut in order to prevent the occurrence of any voluntary movements, on the back of the torpedo, and] pinching the latter, the fish remained motionless, but at the same moment the frog made a bound in a vertical direction. Thus it appears that an impression made by the forceps is transmitted to the nerve-centres, and returned by the nerves which excite the elecl trical organ to discharge its electricity, without, at the same time, pro! during the slightest reflex movement in any portion of the body. This experiment the author repeated a great number of times, and always with the same result. On removing the torpedo from the water, openings the abdomen, and exposing the nerves situated on the lower surface of thffl cartilage forming the upper boundary of the abdominal cavity, Moreaffl found that the application of galvanism to the motor as well as to thffl sensory branches produces no movement, but only an electrical dischargePHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF TOOD, ETC. 67 from the fish ; whereas the same experiment made with a torpedo not poisoned with woorara always induces muscular movements, as well as electrical discharges. The same remark may be made regarding the appli- cation of galvanism, under similar conditions, to the pneumogastric nerves. These experiments prove that woorara first acts on the motor nerves, and that the electric nerves, like the sensory and nerve-centres, retain their physiological properties for a much longer period. A. v. Bezold.—On the Action of Woorara on the Motor Nerves. Monatsber. d. Berl. Akad., 14th Nov., 1859. Canst., vol. 1, p. 111. Experiments with the myographion show that woorara diminishes the velocity with which a stimulus is transmitted through the sciatic nerve, at 590 Fah. (150 C), from twenty-six to five metres and a half in a second. The change occurs much sooner in the intra-muscular nerves than in the trunks, and in the latter only with increased doses of the poison. Martix-Magron and Buisson.—The Comparative Action of the Extracts of Nitx Vomica and Woorara on the Animal Economy. Journ. de la Phys., April, p. 323, and July, p. 522, i860. These authors have arrived at the conclusion that strychnine acts upon the sensitive nerves in precisely the same way as woorara, and conse- quently imagine that the one cannot counteract the effects of the other. L. Vella.—The Antagonism which exists between Strychnine and Woorara, or the Neutralizing the Tetanic Effects of Strychnine by Woorara, Compt. Kend., Sept., i860, p. 353. In this communication Vella relates several experiments, the results of which prove that woorara, as was stated by an English observer in 1856, has the power of neutralizing the effects of a poisonous dose of strych- nine. Vella concludes by saying that woorara is the true physiological antidote for strychnine. Wundt and SchelsiCe.—The Influence of Woorara Poison on Nerves and Muscles.—Verb. d. naturh.-med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, p. 12, i860. (1) The state of the motory and sensory nerves, when under the influence of this poison, is not'identical with that of death ; the sensi- bility to stimuli always, after a longer or shorter period, returns. (2) In. poisoning with woorara there is, the authors say, a period of increased sensibility, at least in so far as reflex action is concerned. (3) The pulsations of the heart, for a time, increase in number after the animal has become unconscious from the action of woorara. (4) The influence of the vagus is not destroyed (as has been supposed) by woorara, but, on the contrary, increased; hence the quickening of the heart's action. 'The authors, moreover, consider that the idea of the extremities of the nerves being dead in poisoning by woorara is false, and, therefore, that the opinions that have been formed regarding muscular irritability, from the results of experiments made upon animals poisoned with woorara, are of no importance. Prof. Wm. A. Hammond.—Experimental Researches relative to a supposed Mew Species of Upas. Amer. Journ., Oct., i860, p. 363 This specimen of upas poison was obtained at Singapore in 1848 byKKPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. GS Dr. Ruschcnbergcr, U.S.N., who presented it to Prof. Hammond. The poison is semifluid, of a dirty-green colour, with a slightly yellowish tinge, and evolves a very decided odour of human faeces. It deposits, on standing, a'slight sediment, consisting of amorphous organic matter, with n few vegetable cells and other structures of similar character. When examined chemically, it is found to contnin 23 per cent, of an uncrystal- lizable substance, possessing an intensely bitter taste. With bichromate of potash and sulphuric acid it gives a blue colour, but not the strych- nine play of colours. On treating this bitter substance with distilled water, above a fourth part is dissolved, and the residue is, like strychnine, crystallizable, and with the bichromate of potash and sulphuric acid ex- hibits the same reaction. It also causes tetanus and death when admi- nistered to a frog even in very small quantity. The results of several experiments led Hammond to the conclusion, that the poison, although resembling strychnia in producing tetanic convulsions, yet differs from it in acting directly on the heart. In frogs its first effect is to arrest the action of this organ, and it is not till some minutes have elapsed that the tetanus supervenes. It is probable that the same is the case with mammals, but, owing to the rapidity with which the poison acts on warm-blooded ani- mals, it is difficult to arrive at any very definite conclusion on this point. It may, however, be concluded that this poison, like the upas antiar, carrowal, wao, and tanghin, acts primarily upon the heart, but, \inlike these agents, acts also upon the spinal cord, causing tetanic convulsions. The author remarks that, from some of thcexperiments he has performed, it would be easy to show the error into which Martin-Magron and Buisson have fallen regarding the action of woorara and strychnine, and then passes on to state that the poison referred to in this memoir allows the nerves in frogs to retain their irritability for about five hours, and the muscles for nearly an hour longer. " When taken into the stomach, the two principal actions of the poison are reversed in the order of occurrence. Tetanus first occurs, and it is not for some time afterwards that the heart stops beating." It is even possible to entirely prevent the paralysis of the heart by washing out the stomach a few minutes after the introduction of the poison. Introduced into the rectum, the effects ensue in the same sequence as when the poison is placed in the stomach, but with somewhat greater rapidity. It may, therefore, be concluded that the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal is a better " endosmometer" for the solution of strychnia than for that of the heart-paralysing agent. Placed upon the skin of frogs, the poison produces similar effects to those which follow its insertion under the skin, and with almost as much rapidity. The author concludes by saying that he thinks the poison is altogether differ- ent from any one species of poison hitherto described, and that, whilst in many respects it is similar in physiological effects to both the upas antiar and the upas tieute in their joint actions, there is much reason for hesi- tating to regard it as a compound of these substances. Dr. Alfred S. Taylok.—On the Transference of Poisons from the Blood to the Alimentary Canal. Guy's Hosp. Rep., vol. vi, p. 397. Physiologists have long recognised the fact that poisons received into the stomach find their way into the blood, and are from thence either69 ON THE ORGANS OF SENSE. temporarily transferred to the solid organs or eliminated by the various excretions; while the fact that, conversely, they might find their way from the blood, when it is the seat of poisoning, into the stomach and intestines has, as yet, been only doubtfully accepted. Our author has re-examined this point experimentally, and, from the results obtained, he says, that arsenic as well as antimony may find its way into the sto- mach and bowels, although not taken by the mouth or injected into the rectum ; facts of some importance, in cases where reliance is placed on the presence of mere traces of either of these poisons in the stomach or intestines, as furnishing evidence of recent administration by the ordinary channels. When arsenic and antimony are found in more than traces in the digestive canal, i. e. in powder or in solution in large quantity, no objec- tion can be offered to the medical inference that they have been taken by the mouth. Taylor further states that it is impossible to admit that the solid sulphides of arsenic or antimony found in the coats of the stomach or intestines of a body, in a case of exhumation, can have been derived from the metal eliminated from other parts by the mucous glands. THE FIVE SENSES—SEEING, HEARING, TASTING, SMELLING, AND FEELING. SEEING. Dr. Henry Dor.—On the Individual Differences of Refraction of the Eye. Journ. delaPhys., July, i860, p. 477. Dr. Charles Kooget.—Note on the Movements of the Iris, on its Con- vexity, and on the Non-existence of a Posterior Chamber in the Eye. Journ. de la Phys., Jul}', 1860, p. 568. Prof. H. MiiLLER.—On Smooth Muscles connected toith the Eyelids of Man and the Mammalia. Verb. d. Wurzb. Phys.-med. Ges., vol. ix, p. 259. Canst., vol. i, p. 81. M. Wundt.—Contributions to the History of the Theory of Vision. Henle's u. Pfeufer's Zeitschr., 3d series, vol. vii, p. 279. (Historical notices of ancient and modern opinions on the subject.) Ueberweg.—Coiitributions to the Theory of the Adjustment of the Sight. Henle'su. Pfeufer's Zeitschr., 3d series, vol. v, p. 268. Giraud-Teulon.—Theory of the Ophthalmoscope, with the Inferences thence derived, indispensable to an understanding of its Mechanism. Gaz. M6d., 1859, No- 7> P- I2o- A. E. Prevost.—Note on Binocular Vision. Bibl. Univ. de Geneve, Nouv. per., vol. iv, p. 105. E. Brown-S^quard.—Experimental Researches on the Influence of Light, Cold, and Heat, on the Iris, in the five classes of Vertebrata. Journ! dePhys., vol. ii, 1859, pp. 281,451. J. Uegnauld.—Analysis and Conclusions of a Work on Fluorescence of the Media of the Eye. Journ. de la Phys., vol. ii, 1859, p. 343. Gaz Med., 1859, No. 2, p. 37. J. Zaciiariah Laurence.—The Variation in Size of Complementary Optical Spectra. Brit. Med. Journ., nth Aug., p. 618. In a letter containing observations on Mr. Laurence's paper John Gorham, Esq., of Tunbridge, says that Darwin had already noticed theItErOItT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 70 8!unc fact, and published his views on the subject in the 'Philosophical Trails.,' vol. lxxvi, p. 313. (Brit. Med. Journ., 25th Aug., p. 674.) In the same journal, of iat September, Laurence replies to Gorham's letter, and adds a table, exhibiting the averages of a large number of observations on four different persons. The conclusion drawn from which is, that the magnitude of a complementary spectrum is in a direct ratio to its distance from the eye. Wharton Jones.—On the Invention of Stereoscopic Glasses for Single Pictures, with Preliminary Observations on the Stereoscope and on the Physiology of Stereoscopic Vision. Pamphlet, pp. 31. Wharton Jones.—Analysis of my Sight, with a view to ascertain the Focal Power of my Eyes for Horizontal and for Vertical Rays, and to determine whether they possess a Power of Adjustment for Different Distances. Proceedings of Roy. Soc, vol. x, p. 380. Boblin.—Optical Experiment, by which the Sensation of a Body in Relief may be obtained from a Single Photographic Proof. Bull, de l'Acad. de Bruxelles, 1858. Bruxelles, 1859, p. 297. L'Instit., No. 1304, Dec, 1858, p. 431. Canst., vol. i, p. 88. By removing the concave glass from an ordinary terrestrial telescope containing an eye-piece with four lenses and an achromatic object-glass, and by placing the instrument some five feet from the portrait, the effect of a solid object is produced. Dr. S. W. Mitchell.—On the Production of Cataract in Frogs by the Administration of Sugar. (Read before the Biological Department of the Academy of Natural Sciences, Oct. 3, 1859.) Amer. Journ. Med. Sc., Jan. i860, p. 106. While performing some experiments with sugar upon frogs, the author's attention was arrested by the white appearance of the animal's eyes, which, on close examination, proved to be cataractous, the cornea remaining perfectly clear and transparent. In some cases, when the frog died very early, no cataract became visible ; and in others, even in despite of frequent doses of sugar, there was likewise no formation of the kind observed. It may be remarked that the same change in the crystalline lens is found to occur when the eyes of a frog are simply soaked in syrup, and even when the bare lens is placed in sugar and water. However caused, either before or after death, the cataractous whiteness disappears when the lenses are placed in pure water, but the lenses do not become entirely transparent when the opacity has existed for a considerable period of time, or where the opacity is very highly marked. This, the author thinks, may be owing to the fact, that in extreme cases the lens tubes are not merely altered in form and in their relations to one another, but are also ruptured and partially emptied of their softer albuminous contents, lesions which no restoration of their aqueous supply can entirely remedy. The mere abstraction of water from a lens is found insufficient to cause opacity. The formation of the cataract, it is noticed, attends the second Btage of sugar poisoning, or that stage at which the sugar soaks into the tissues. It is, the author imagines, probable that the direct contact of the saccharine substance with the lens i3 essential to the pro- duction of the phenomenon in question, and he sees no reason to doubtOX THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 71 that the changes which then result are osmotic ; but whether the changes are chiefly due to the absorption of sugar in solution by the crystalline humour or to exosmosis of the thinner portions of the lens fluids to the sugar, the author had no means of determining. The following are Mitchell's conclusions: ,,.„„,„ , 1. That sugar in large quantity destroys the life of the frog, when given internally, or injected under the skin. 2. That an abundant supply of water frequently enables the frog to eliminate the sugar and escape death. 3. That the formation of a peculiar variety of cataract is one of the most curious and striking signs attendant upon sugar poisoning. 4. That the production of cataract is due to the mechanical disturbances of the form aud relative position and contents of the component tubes of the lens. The author adds, that we have no knowledge of any such form of cataract in man ; but as it has been observed that double cataracts, of a soft nature, rapidly form in the advanced stage of diabetes mellitus, it is not impossible that, beyond the general .impairment of the nutritive functions common in this disease, the long-continued presence of a small quantity of sugar in the blood may cause in the crystalline lens osmotic changes productive of opacity. Dr. B. W. Richardson.—The Synthesis of Cataract. Journ. de la Phys., 1860, July, p. 449; Oct., p. 645. The author repeated and greatly extended Mitchell and Kunde's expe- riments on the artificial production of cataract, and the results obtained, in as far as sugar is concerned, are in perfect accord with those just cited. In the second part of his communication, which is unfinished, Richardson i details a number of experiments that he made with mannite, liquorice, 1 saccharine urine, glycerine, alcohol, and a number of saline substances. "\Ye cannot, however, at present say more than that sugar is not the only ( substance which causes the artificial formation of cataract, as the conclu- sions drawn by the author from the experiments are not yet published. A. DE Martini.—On the Coloration of the Vision and of the Urine pro- duced by Santonine. Employment of Santonine in Affections of the Eye. Communicated by Flourens, Compt. Rend., p. 544, 12th March, i860. According to the observations of De Martini, santoniue, taken internally, causes the majority of persons to see everything tinged green ; some, however, have the field of vision blue ; while to a still smaller number the field of vision appears of a straw-yellow colour. The author has studied the effects of santonine in diseases of the visual organs, and relates the following cases: 1. On administering santonine to a woman, set. 70, who saw things very indistinctly with the left eye, he found that from four to eight grains, given daily, greatly improved the visual powers, although the medicine , at the same time made everything appear yellow. 2. To another patient, suffering from amaurosis, the author administered santonine with benefit; but in a third case the advantage of the dru»- was more visible still. 3. The patient was a man who had entirely lost the right, and who7-Z Itlil'OltT OX THE 1XSTITUTJCS OK MKIJICINK. saw almost nothing with the left, eye (amaurosis). After taking ten grains of santonine daily for the space of a week, this man was able to read words written in large characters upon the wall. Guiipin adds the following remarks (' Compt. Rend.,' p. 794, i860) on the preceding communication :—Santonine becomes yellow when exposed to the light, as well as in the animal economy. The author administered the drug to upwards of seventy patients, and found that, (1) as a general rule, the urine becomes coloured, and the patients see objects yellow after the second dose. (2) In some patients the urine continues coloured even after the derangement of vision has passed away. (3) In those patients affected with atrophy of the arteries of the retina, as well as in those suf- fering from subacute choroiditis, with absorption of pigment, the yellow coloration of vision is not observed. (4) In certain of the latter caseB objects, on the contrary, appear whitish. (5) In almost all the cases of cured acute choroiditis, with the exudation more or less coloured, santonine improved the vision. (6) In these cases it generally caused headache. (7) In patients who have formerly suffered from iritis, simple or with choroiditis and exudation, santonine is usually bene- ficial ; the powers of vision increase, without, however, the exudation diminishing. (8) In some cases santonine causes slight inclination to vomit. (9) In certain diseases of the eye (not mentioned) santonine is hurtful. H. Aubeht.— On the After-images produced by the Electric Spark. Moleschott's Unters., vol. v, p. 279. Canst., vol. i, p. 86. The author investigated the ocular spectra which succeed the image of the electric spark. (1) These secondary or o/Ve/'-images (Nachbilder) vary as the spark is viewed in a light or in a dark room, and as its image falls in a direction more or less parallel to the optic axis. (2) In daylight the spark is of a sky-blue colour ; viewed an hour before sunset, it leaves a vivid, blueish-violet streak, narrower than the original image, becoming en-| circled with a yellow areola, and passing successively into pure violet, red, orange, yellow, white, and, finally, sap-green, till it and the halo vanish. (3) If the sight be fixed on black velvet, the after-image is first blue, like the spark, then changes to violet, red, black, and green, the yellow areola being larger than in the first case. (4) In a dark chamber the spark appears as a bright spot of a blueish- or yellowish-white, becoming sur- rounded with a reddish-green halo. (5) After its transit a blue nebula, en- vironed by one of a reddish-yellow hue, is seen, the latter extending rapidly inwards, whilst the central tract becomes clearer and more vivid. A red areola, changing to a reddish or greenish-yellow, is then produced. A black ring subsequently separates it from the central tract, which be- comes yellow and then white. (6) Side objects disappear during the greater part of the continuance of the after-image, showing that portions of the retina not impinged upon are sympathetically excited. (7) When the spark is seen through red glass, we have a positive complementary or bright- green after-image. (8) When the eyes are fixed on coloured objects, the after-images are positive ; with colourless objects they are negative. Alf. Guaefe.—Contribution to our Knowledge of the Influence which Excitement of Non-identical Spots of the Retina exercises upon the I Adjustment of the Visual Axes. Graefe's Arch. f. Ophth., vol. v,l p. 127. Canst., vol. i, p. 87. In a case where disease about thclimbus luteus abolished central vision I73 OX THE ORGANS OF SENSE. of the right eye, slight divergence of that eye -was discovered. If the left eye was fixed on a distant candle, and a prism placed before it with the base directed outwards, the left eye rolled inwards, while the right one deviated outwards, and then returned to its former position; convergence thus occurred as in binocular vision, although the right eye perceived no image. The supposition that at first an excentric spot of the right eye produced an image, and that the effort to obviate the double image provoked the inward movement, was confirmed by interposing the prism with the base outwards before the diseased eye, which then moved inwards. Thus, whereas normally the combination of identical points of the retinae pro- duces single vision, it was here attained by the conjunction of non- identical sensitive and insensitive spots. It is true that the patient was unconscious of a double image when the prism was placed before the dis- eased eye in the last experiment. Yet, when he gazed at a flame, and the sound eye was then covered, the flame was lost sight of, to reappear at once on replacement of the prism as before. HEARING. Bonn afont.—Memoir on the Anatomy and Physiology of the Ossicnla Auditus and Membrana Tympani. Paris, 1859, 8vo. Prof. H. Helmholtz.—On the Physical Cause of Concord and Discord. Amtl. Ber. der 34. Vers, der deutschen Naturf., i8tg, p. 1 <y. Canst., vol. i, p. 88. The author regards concord as a continuous, and discord as an inter- mittent, sensation of tone. A musical tone corresponds to an aerial movement, in which the compression or velocity of the air at a particular spot may be represented by a La Grange's series^Aj sin (2 -n n t + Cx) + A2siu (4 7T n t + C2) 4- A3 sin (6 ir n t + C3) . . . . where n = number of vibrations, t = the time, n . A n . C = constants]. Helmholtz offers the hypothesis that the elastic appendages of each ter- mination of an auditory nerve-fibre are destined for a determinate tone, a theory which would explain how the individual tones of a concord are recognised. TASTING. A. Drielsma.—Inquiry into the Seat of the Sense of Taste. Groningen, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 89. In this dissertation the author gives an account of the opinions which have been entertained on this subject, and then describes a series of careful observations made on six persons with solutions of tartaric acid, common salt, sugar and sulphate of quinine. It hence results that] in perfection of special sensibility, the different regions rank in the 1 following order—1st, the root of the tongue; 2d, soft palate and uvula • 3d, superior margin of the tongue ; 4th, tip of its inferior surface; <th, inferior surface generally; 6th, tip of the superior surface; 7th,'hard 1 palate and middle of superior surface of tongue. The gums and inner I surface of the lips do not possess the sense of taste. Klaatscii and A. Sticii.—On Feeling in the Mouth, with Particular Reference to Taste. Virchow's Arch., vol. xvii, p. 80. Canst vol 1, p. 90. * The apex of the tongue possesses the greatest delicacy of touch ; theREPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 74 sense diminishes rapidly on the lower, but slowly on the upper, surface of the organ. The labial mucous membrane, the root of the tongue, the hard palate, and the gums, are all nearly equally obtuse. The authors tried whether the regions of taste differed from the other surfaces of the mouth in their perception of objects of touch. Oil of turpentine caused burning on the apex of the tongue in five seconds, still sooner about the epiglottis, on the surface and root in twenty, on the soft palate in forty or fifty, and inside the lips and cheeks and on the hard palate in one minute. Applied to spots where taste exists, the oil is tasted considerably sooner than it is felt. The velum palati is more sensitive to cold than any other part of the mouth. These facts show that delicacy of the taste bears no relation to the acuteness of common sensation possessed by the same spot. SMELLING. Owsjannikow.—Microscopic Researches on the Olfactory Lobes of Mam- malia. Compt. Rend., 27th Feb., i860, p. 428. Edm. Simon.—The Lymphatics of the Schneiderian Membrane of Man. Gaz. de Par., vol. ii, p. 159, 1860. Dr. Hoyer.—On the Microscopical Structure of the Nasal Mucous Mem- brane. Arch. f. Anat. u. Phys., p. 50, i860. In the mucous membrane of the nose of mammalia and frogs there are two parts, differing from each other in structure and function. In man the difference is much less marked than in some other animals. 1. The mucous membrane in the neighbourhood of the olfactory nerve is covered with long, small, cylindrical epithelium-cells, which in mam- malia are non-ciliated. In the frog, on the other hand, these cells are covered with long, fine cilia. This portion of the mucous membrane contains a number of gland-follicles (Bowman's glands), lined with yellow, polygonal, granular cells. In the frog there are also glandular follicles, somewhat flask-shaped, and filled with round cells. 2. The rest of the nasal mucous membrane is covered with short, broad, ciliated, cylindrical cells, which form but a single layer. It pos- sesses also a number of gland-follicles, lined with cylindrical epithelium. On one occasion the author found a number of glands, not at all unlike sweat-glands, in the mucous membrane of the human nose. The struc- ture of the stroma of the mucous membrane is the same in all parts of the nasal cavity. The olfactory nerve has a somewhat peculiar texture. Its fibres are isolated with extreme difficulty, and when perfectly fresh contain a uniform, slightly granular, grayish-white substance. On the addition of acetic acid a great number of oblong nuclei, tolerably regularly distributed, come into view. The nuclei lie, in general, parallel with the nerve-fibres. FEELING. W. KitAUSE.—The Terminal Corpuscles of the Nerves of Common Sen- sibility. Hannover, i860, 8vo. pp. 176. On the function of the author's terminal corpuscles, and the Pacinian bodies. Prof. G. Meissner.—Researches on the Setise of Touch. Henle's u. Pfeufer's Zeitschr., 3d series, vol. vii, p. 92. Canst., vol. i, p.90.RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 75 When the hand is immersed in water or mercury, it is insensible to an amount of pressure that would be keenly felt in the air. This the author attributes to the circumstance that the liquid in which the hand is im- mersed presses uniformly, and a solid unequally, upon the furrowed surface of the skin. He refers the difference, not to increased tension, but to molecular oscillation. The tactile corpuscles sustain a succession of impulses directed in the experiment with quicksilver towards their bases, and as pressure in this instance is not perceived, it is concluded that such action directed perpendicularly does not affect the ends of the nerves. Wind blowing perpendicularly against the hand produces no sensation of contact, but au oblique stream from a blowpipe does. RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. L. P. Fuappier.—Mechanical Influence of the Respiration on the Circu- lation and on Certain Organs. Paris, 1859, 4to. A.T.H."Waters.—Onthe Anatomy ofthe Human Lung. Pamphlet, pp. 233. This essay obtained the Fothergillian Medal of the London Medical Society. The following is the author's summary of his labours : The lungs consist of two portions—1. That which constitutes the con- vective channels, by means of which the air is carried to and from the true respiratory portion. 2. The true respiratory portion—that in which the process of respiration is carried on. 3. The first portion is formed of the trachea, the bronchi, and the bronchial tubes. 4. The second portion is formed of the terminal dilatations of the bronchial tubes, together with a number of tubes given off from them, to which the name of air-sacs has ! jeen given, to each assemblage of which the term lobulette has been I applied ; the terminal dilatation of the bronchial tube is, in fact, but the ; commencement of the lobulette, or the point de reunion of the various iair-sacs. 5. The convective channels consist of cartilaginous rings, muscular and fibrous tissue, and a mucous membrane, which is lined by a columnar, ciliated epithelium. 6. The respiratory portion presents on the parietes of the parts of which it is composed a number of depressions, to which the term alveoli has been given ; these alveoli exist in the air- sacs and in the terminal dilatation of the bronchial tubes, and in some mimals in the ultimate bronchial tubes, previous to their dilatation. 7. I The air-sacs and the alveolated portion of the bronchial tubes are lined Iby a variety of the pavement epithelium. 8. The pulmonary artery I distributes its blood to the respiratory portion of the lungs. 9. The I pulmonary veins return the blood which has been distributed by the Ipulmonary artery. 10. The ultimate branches of the pulmonary artery I n the air-sacs form the nutritious vessels of the respiratory portion of the B ungs, ii. The bronchial arteries distribute their blood to the bronchi, Lhe bronchial tubes, the vessels and areolar tissue of the lungs; the tranches that enter the lungs pour their contents into the pulmonary /eins. 12. The bronchial veins return the blood which is distributed to .he structures about the roots of the lungs. 13. The lymphatic vessels of ;he lungs form two sets, a superficial and deep. The former are found at .he surface of the lungs ; the latter chiefly accompany the bronchial tubes. [4. The nerves of the lungs are derived from the pneumogastric and 1 sympathetic ; branches are distributed chiefly to the bronchial tubes, butREPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 7G some pass to the blood-vessels nnd to the surface of the lungs; some apparently are lost in the pulmonary tissue. 15. The air-sacs exist fully developed in tlie foetal lung before birth. In tlie 'British Medical Journal' of the 24th November, p. 911, will be found an article by the same author, entitled "Observations on the Morbid Anatomy, Pathology, and Determining Cause of Emphysema of the Lungs," in which he gives woodcuts of the terminal bronchial tubes and air-sacs of healthy human lung. Prof. Jac. Moleschott.—The Muscular Fibres of the Air-vesicles of the Lungs. Wien. Med.Wchnschr., No.52,1859. Schmidt, vol. io6,p.28i.| Since 1845, when Moleschott first published his discovery of muscular fibres in the walls of the air-vesicles, several observers have investigated the subject; and while some have confirmed, others have denied, the correctness of his observations. The author has therefore repeated his examination, and by treating the lung with acetic acid somewhat in the way described at p. 27, has been able to satisfy himself of their existence in the lung of the pig, ox, and man. The muscular fibres are most numerous in the lungs of the pig, least numerous in those of man ; the reverse is the case with the elastic fibrous tissue. Dr. James Newton Heale.—On the Physiological Anatomy of the Lungs. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 41, p. 645. The arrangement observed, says our author, in the divisions and sub- divisions of the bronchial tubes in the human lung, is that of a panicle. There is everywhere throughout the lung to be distinguished a straight, diminishing tube, from which lesser tubes are alternately given off; the, lesser tubes, in their turn, observe a similar plan of distribution, and even the smallest tubes, down to their ultimate terminations, are governed by the same system. There is nowhere to be found a true dichotomous or trichotomous division. The distinction between bronchial tube andJ parenchyma is marked and very decisive in an injected fragment, however small, when examined with the microscope. "When the bronchial tubes have reached their penultimate terminations, the coats which form their perimeters split into two layers. The outer, which is tougher, thicker, aud more fibrous, expands and encloses an ultimate portion of the paren- chyma. To these portions of the lung the author gives the name of " leaflets." The outer coat of the bronchial tube, by being spread out in the leaflets, becomes continuous with the general parenchyma of the lungs. The inner portion of the tube immediately divides into numerous minute tubes—" pedicels." Each pedicel goes to a different leaflet, but each leaflet receives several pedicels. A minute anastomosis is thereby established between the terminations of the different bronchial tubes. The interior of all the bronchial tubes is marked with "rugae," which show the direction of the bundles of longitudinal contractile fibres. The longitudinal are surrounded by circular fibres, and by the contraction of the latter the rugae are formed. ,...11 The author says that there are no such things as "alveoli belonging to the tube. The bronchial artery supplies the following structures : 1. The cellular tissue, lymphatic glands, the coats of pulmonary vessels, neurilemma, &c.77 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 3 The fibrocartilaginous and fibrous portion of the bronchial tubes ; some minute capillaries, derived from these, extend into the mucous mem- brane, but do not in anyway anastomose with the proper vascular plexus belonging to this structure. 3. The bronchial artery supplies the walls and processes of the leaflets with arterial blood. 4. Some small branches arrive at the surface of the lungs, and anasto- mose freely with other branches of the same artery in the sub-pleural cellular tissue. The bronchial artery forms no sort of anastomosis with the pulmonary system in any part of the lungs. The bronchial veins are of two sorts—one forms a free system of inosculation on the surface of the lungs, the other in the loose cellular tissue surrounding the bronchial tubes. They both have valves, and large intercommunicating trunks, &c. L. Mandl.—Researches on Pulmonary Osmose. Compt. Rend., p. 645, 26th March, i860. 1. The life of animals breathing by gills is destroyed by the presence of a certain quantity of saccharine matter in the medium they inhabit. 2. The rapidity of death depends on the species of animal and the kind and quantity of saccharine substance present. 3. Infusoria die instantly in water containing one fifth part of sugar, >lucose, glycerine, or mannite ; they live four or five minutes in a con- :entrated solution of milk sugar. They perish in from six to eight minutes 11 water containing one twenty-fifth of mannite, whereas they live three imes as long in a solution of cane sugar of the same strength. 4. Numerous experiments on many different kinds of animals led he author to the opinion that in the above-named cases death is not lue to an absence of air, or to fermentation, or to a chemical action on the lood, but simply to the osmotic powers of the saccharine matters. Many physiological and pathological phenomena are explained by the ismotic powers of saccharine matter. Thus, the thirst excited after the ngestion of sugar, by absorbing the water of the tissues with which it omes in contact; the antiseptic properties of sugar, by arresting the levelopment of organized beings ; the digestive properties of small quan- ities of sugar, by exciting the flow of gastric juice ; while, on the other land, the introduction of large quantities into the blood, increases its ismotic power, and explains the advantage of sugar in dropsies. The •xcess of sugar in all the tissues also explains the constant thirst of liabetic patients, the impossibility of any serous accumulation, and >erhaps, also, by the arrest of the circulation, the gangrene which is ccasionally observed in this affection. I. Grkiiaut.—On the Vital Capacity of the Human Lungs. Compt. Rend., July, i860, p. 21. )r. T. Graham Balfour.—Contribution to the Study of Spirometry. Trans. Med. and Chir. Soc, p. 263. Med. Times and Gaz., 4th Aug., p. 119. The author's researches confirm the observations on the vital capacityItEPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 78 of the lungs published by Hutchinson in 1846. Balfour gives the results of the measurements, by the spirometer, of the recruits, 1126" in number enlisted into the Grenadier Guards between October, 1848, and March' 1853, with the mortality and invaliding among them from the dates of their enlistment till the end of March, 1854. After certain corrections pointed out by the author as necessary to render a comparison accurate, the results of the measurements in the Guards arc almost identical with those made by Hutchinson, as will be seen by the following summary showing the average " vital capacity" of men of different heights : Height of Grenadier Guards. 6ft. 8in. 6ft. 9in. 6ft. lOin. 5ft. llin. 6ft. (■ Balfour ... Vital capacity < I Hutchinson 23I-S 23I-S- 239.8 240.5 245-6 245-5 25'-5 252.0 258.9 258.8 Balfour says that the identity of these results is very remarkable, and may fairly be accepted as evidence of their accuracy. He next examines the question whether a low vital capacity may be taken as an indication either of a tendency to pulmonary disease, or of a feeble constitution, rendering the individuals liable to a high rate of mortality. To test this, the men were divided into three classes, according to the extent of their vital capacity, and the mortality in each class traced. The results show a most remarkable coincidence in the mortality of the three classes, the: difference amounting only to 0.6 per 1000 in favour of men having a vital capacity above the average. But a different result was obtained in regard to the men discharged as invalids, the number who became non-effective being much greater amongst those having a vital capacity below the average than in the other two classes. The author next discusses the value of the spirometer in the selection of recruits, as indicating the men having a tendency to pulmonary disease, and points out the necessity, in such an investigation, of including the total loss arising from consumption, both by death and invaliding. The results showed that this loss is much greater among the men having a vital capacity equal to or above the average. Balfour concludes that a vital capacity below the average maybe considered rather as indicating a generally feeble organization, less capable of resisting the deteriorating influences to which a soldier is exposed, than as evidence that a definitive relation exists between the vitafl capacity and a tendency to pulmonary consumption. While pointing out some practical objections to the employment of the spirometer in testing recruits, the author admits that its indications, combined with a careful stethoscopic examination, would be of value to the inspecting officer. Lastly, he concurs with Hutchinson as to the practical value of the spiro- meter to medical referees of life assurance offices. McLaren.—On the Value of Exercise on the Expansion of the Chest. Meeting of Brit. Assoc.,'Oxford. Lancet,,7th July. McLaren states that, by systematised exercise in the gymnasium, two79 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. inches' increase of expansion of the chest is obtained by every freshman in three months after his arrival at Oxford. E. L. Bowles.—Observations on Stertor, and on the Varying Conditions upon ivhich it is dependent, with the Treatment necessary to its Belief. Trans. Roy. Med. andChir. Soc, i860, p. 41. Bowles finds from experiment that, in the majority of instances, stertor arises from one of three conditions:—1st. Paralysis of the velum palati. 2d. From the paralysed tongue falling back in the throat. 3d. From the presence of mucus in the pharynx and air-passages. The position of the body invariably influences the relations of the tongue; in the prone position the tongue falls forwards and away from the pharynx, whereas when the body is supine it falls back towards the pharynx, and forms a serious obstacle to the passage of air into or out of the trachea. In the supine position it is also observed that mucus or fluid ejected from the stomach remains in the back of the pharynx, while in the prone position it drains away by the mouth. From cases of disease which the author has witnessed he is led to believe—1st, that the paralysed tongue may, under certain circumstances, cause death by suffocation ; 2d, that stertor arises from the tongue falling back in the supine position of the body, and offering a serious impediment to the respiration ; 3d, that mucus (another respiratory impediment) drains away when the patient is placed on the side; and 4th, that great improvement in the symptoms follows the establishment of easy breathing in the lateral position. From an examination of the anatomy of the pharynx, the author con- cludes that, when the mouth is closed, the tongue cannot, in the majority of cases, reach the back of the pharynx ; but when the jaw drops, the angle of the jaw describes the arc of a circle, and approaches verv nearly to the spine, thus allowing the tongue to come in contact with the posterior wall of the pharynx. If the chin be bent upon the sternum by raising the head with pillows, the tongue will lie in dangerous proximity to the pharynx, even if the mouth be closed. Stertor is divided by the author into three varieties : 1st. Palatine stertor.—In this, if the mouth be closed, the soft palate is pushed upwards and backwards by the base of the tongue, and thus narrows the opening between the palate and posterior wall of the pharynx. If the mouth be partially open, sometimes the velum palati drops upon the tongue, and vibrates as the air rushes between it and the tongue. 2d. Pharyngeal stertor, which is the most frequent in apoplexy, and by far the most dangerous. This variety depends upon the base of the tongue dropping back into the pharynx, and acting as a serious impedi- ment to the passage of air ; it occurs when the mouth is wide open, and is a harsher and sharper noise than either of the other varieties. 3d. Mucous stertor, which depends upon the presence of mucus in the bronchial tubes ; it may exist alone, or in combination with either of the preceding varieties. J. II. S. Beau.—Experiments on Death by Submersion. Compt. Eend p. 1019, 4th June, i860. ' Hhefrst series of experiments was made with the view of ascertaining the principal phenomena which characterise this mode of death. A smallRJSPOIiT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. so clog was put into a vessel filled with water, nnd at the moment of its sub- mersion it made a rapid inspiration of water, which was immediately followed by a jerking expiration, accompanied by the expulsion of a consi- dcrable quantity of air. From this instant no further respiratory move- menta were observed. The animal moved about, but neither inspired nor rxpired. At the end of four or five minutes it was dead. On examination the lips were found closed, the glottis shut, and there was oidy a small quantity of water in the bronchi. In the second series of experiments, a small opening was made in the trachea, and a eanula inserted into it. No sooner was the animal sub- merged than it inspired, and a quantity of water penetrated into its chest. It immediately coughed, and a number of air-bubbles escaped by the eanula and by the mouth. From this moment the animal made no further attempts at respiration. On dissection, a small quantity of frothy water was found in the lower parts of the bronchi, as in the first series of experiments. In a third series of experiments, a eanula was inserted in the trachea as before, and the animal entirely submerged, except the head, which was held out of the water. Scarcely had immersion been completed, when the animal inspired, and the water entered through the eanula into the lungs. A violent expiration followed, carrying with it a quantity of air and water, and then respiration ceased. In a few seconds respiration recommenced, and continued calmly for some time, less and less air appearing at each expiration, till at length merely water was expelled, and the animal died. On examination the trachea and bronchi were found literally filled with water, without any air. Reflections.—In death by drowning, the animal closes the mouth and glottis, in order to prevent the water from entering the lungs, even when there is a direct communication between the trachea and the water j but if the natural respiratory orifices are not submerged, the animal makes no such effort. It appears, therefore, that the closure of the mouth and glottis, as well as the arrest of respiration, is, in ordinary cases of death by drowning, due to reflex action. The small quantity of frothy water which is usually found in the trachea after death is that which acci- dentally entered with the first abrupt respiratory effort. The author con- cludes his remarks by stating that death by drowning has a very close resemblance to death resulting from tetanic spasm of the respiratory muscles. Dr. Salter.—The Nature and Cause of the Respiratory Murmur. Lancet, ioth Nov., p. 462. Salter expresses the opinions at which he has arrived in the following summary :—ist. That the air-cells are structurally incapable of producing a respiratory murmur by their slight dilatation. 2d. That the respiratory murmur is essentially a fine-tube sound. 3d. That the lobular passages and ultimate bronchial radicles are probably its immediate seat. 4th. That while the lung-parenchyma, from its heterogeneous constitution, com- pletely muffles all sound, the unbroken column of air in the bronchial tree is an excellent conductor; that thus the respiratory murmur has a double cause, and is in part the result of air- and wall-friction at the spot, and in part the bronchial sound of the larger tubes (although essentially81 RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. modified) conducted by the unbroken column of air to the ultimate bron- chial twi^s. 5th. That the restriction of the sound to inspiration (excess of inspiratory over expiratory sound) depends mainly on convection, but probably also in part on the great amount of air-and-wall friction pro- duced by the impact of the air at the points where the tubes divaricate. H. C. L. Barkow.—On Congenital Hyperoxidation of the Blood. In den Beitr'agen zur pathol. Entwicklungsgeschiehte, Abtheil. iii, Breslaw, 1859, fol. 5, p. 46. Canst., vol. i, p. 39. In a man about forty or fifty years of age, the author observed the left innmninate vein, after receiving the large superior left pulmonary vein, divide into the left internal jugular and subclavian. The right pulmo- nary veins opened normally into the left auricle, as did also the left in- ferior pulmonary vein. In this case oxygenated blood mingled with the dark blood from the right side of the heart, yet, as the greater portion of the blood held a normal course, life was not imperilled by the ab- normal arrangement. In the case of a new-born child, the left auricle received no pulmonary veins, the left common pulmonary vein joining the left innominate, and the right one coursing outside the pericardium to join a left pulmonary, and finally be lost in the common pulmonary vein. Here the overloading of the right heart with blood caused dilatation of the foramen ovale and ductus Botalli. But as a great deal of the arterial blood reached the vena cava, and so regained the respiratory apparatus, the " hyperoxidised" blood, according to the author, soon became incapa- ble of sustaining life. Aem. Knaut.—On the so-called Vital Contractility of the Lungs after Irritation of the Vagi. Dorpat, 1859, Svo. Canst., vol. i, p. 104. Experiments on a pup, and on cats and rabbits, proved the contrac- tility of the pulmonary tissue, and its dependence on the vagi. The assumption that electric irritation of the vagi relaxes the muscular fibres of the lung is refuted by the author. Irritability of the pulmonary tissue disappears very soon after death, so that frequently no positive results are to be obtained with a manometer in the larynx, unless the operation be immediately performed. The elastic pressure seems, on an average, to bear the relation of 3 : 2 to the contractile pressure. (Budge.— On the Influence of Irritation of the Vagus Nerve on Respi- ration. Virchow's Arch., vol. xvi, p. 433. Canst., vol. i, p. 104. The experiments were performed in order to ascertain whether the •pause in the respiration which occurs when the vagi are galvanized hap- 8pens during inspiration or during expiration. 1. Weak or strong I excitation of the central portion of a vagus nerve always leads to :ian expiratory movement, though in many instances this is preceded by 'inspiration. The latter is less than natural, whilst the former is greater. 12. The degree of irritation determines whether respiration shall cease ior continue. If it continues, the inspirations always diminish in depth. 'Budge assumes that there are two centres of respiration in the medulla 1 oblongata—one governing the inspiratory nerves, the other, which might ibe called centrum nervorum vagorum, presiding over expiration. They ^levelop opposite forces. 3. If the pueumogastric-centre, or the central GREPORT ON TUB INSTITUTES OV MEDICINE. 82 portions of one or both vagi, be irritated, the expiratory muscles are stimulated by reflex action, and the centre of the inspiratory movements becomes crippled. 4. If the latter is not fully overcome, the inspirations become less deep, but more frequent. 5. When the irritation is so great that the inspiratory and expiratory centres are botli paralysed, a pause occurs midway between the two respiratory acts. Pi IIegelmayer.—The Respiratory Movements in Cases of Compression of the Brain, lleilbronn, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 93. Under Vierordt's superintendence, this inquirer observed, by means of the sphygmographion, the effects on the respiration of pressing the brain of rabbits trepanned for the occasion. (1) Moderate pressure reduces the frequency of respiration, sometimes to one half. On the discon- tinuance of the pressure, the previous, or even a greater, frequency in the respiration is immediately observed. (2) Very strong pressure increases the rate of respiration. (3) Section of the vagi does not remove these effects. (4) The variation in the duration of the respiratory acts is usually diminished, an effect which is not destroyed by dividing the vagi, nor does it seem to depend upon the inspirations, which vary more than natural if the vagi are uninjured. (5) Expiration is less frequent, longer, and more uniform in duration, results which are not affected by division of the vagi. (6) The inspiratory period being considered as y, that of expiration is found, on an average, to be 1.22. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Prof. Ludwig.—On the Temperature of the Saliva.—Wien. med. Wehnschr., No. 28, i860. Wi Buscii.—Inquiries into the Physiology of the Digestive Organs. Lo Sperimentale, Feb., 1859, p. 155. E. BitiiCKE.—Contribution to our Knowledge of Digestion. Ber. d. Akad. Wien., vol. xxxv, p. i. Canst., vol. i, p. 190. Schmidt, vol. l8l p. 145. Briicke's researches were made with the view of ascertaining—(1) what influence the quantity of acid and of pepsin has on the time required for digestion ; (2) if pepsin is formed during digestion; and (3) how the gastric juice is secreted. Prof. J. MoleschoTT.—Physiology of Alimentary Substances. A Manual of Dietetics. 2d edition, thoroughly revised. Giessen, 1859, 8vo. This repertory of chemico-physiological facts relating to food (com- bining original research with critical compilation), treats of digestion, absorption of chyle, of the blood, tissues, secretions, retrograde processes^ and excretions ; studies the effects of want of nourishment, the amount and kind of nourishment required, the various articles of food and drink employed ; their different degrees of digestibility ; and, lastly, the dieC most suitable in health, disease, and convalescence. The 3 55 tabulations which the work contains may be said to forma dictionary of the chemical constitution of the aliments, and of the animal fluids,DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 83 Prof. J. H. Corbett.—On the Deglutition of Alimentary Fluids. Biit. Assoc', for the Advancement of Science, Oxford, i860. Brit. Med. Jouru., 21st July, p. 569. In this paper the author endeavours to prove that there are two dis- tinct forms of deglutition ; that while the alimentary holus is propelled with rapidity over the epiglottis, fluid can flow in two streams, one on each side of the epiglottis, without the dauger incidental to its passage over the central aperture of the larynx. In experiments made on the dead hody, the author observed that fluid poured upon the dorsum of the tongue passes backwards into the pharynx in two streams through the grooved passages situated at each side of the epiglottis and arytseno- epiglottidean folds. In the living body, during the deglutition of fluids, the uvula falls for- wards upon the tongue, in front of the epiglottis ; and both the uvula and epiglottis afford protection to the respiratory apparatus. The fluid is divided by the uvula into two currents, which descend at each side under the half arches of the palate, and such is the principal use of the uvula. The distinctness of the two forms of deglutition is also indicated by the fact that the mouth may be filled with food, and yet drink can be swal- lowed without displacement of the solid aliment. Bernard.—Lecture XI. On the Parotid Gland. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 362. When speaking of the salivary glands, Bernard remarks, that well- marked salivation may be induced in animals by simply wounding certain parts of the floor of the fourth ventricle. When the wound is made in the mesial line, the flow of saliva is the same on both sides of the mouth; but if the cutting instrument chances to deviate to the right or to the left instead of acting directly in the median line, the least saliva flows on the wounded side. He also noticed that more saliva is furnished by the submaxillary than by the parotid gland. Salivation only occurs when the wound in the fourth ventricle includes the parts adjoining the origin of the fifth pair of nerves. Jules Cloquet.—Observations on the Existence of a Salivary Calculus in a Neio-born Child. Compt. Rend., p. 893, 14th May, i860. Cloquet begins by remarking that six months previously he had shown to the Academy a urinary calculus, extracted by Dr. Burdel from the prostatic region of a child immediately afterbirth ; from the same gentle- man Cloquet had received the salivary calculus, and the history of the case is,—a woman brought to Dr. Burdel her child, aged three weeks, because .t had a difficulty in sucking, and on the doctor examining the child's mouth he found under the tongue a hard swelling, in the centre of which tvas the salivary calculus. The calculus was analysed by M. Fremy, and found to consist of tribasic phosphate of lime, along with a small quantity )f organic matter, probably mucus. Cloquet thinks the case one of rjeat importance, as it is impossible to suppose that the calculus had brmed during the three weeks of extra-uterine life, and this is the first :ase ever recorded of a saHvary calculus having been developed in a fcetus lefore birth.84 UKl'OUT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Dr. IIakley.—Contribution to our Knowledge of Digestion. Brit, and For. Quart., No. 49, Jan., i860, p. 206. The author found that, on an average, a healthy man secretes from one to two pounds of saliva in twenty-four hours, of a specific gravity of from 1.0039 t° 1-0050, and of the following composition : Water ..... 99.331 Solids ..... 0.669 : Ferment Albumen Casein Mucus J Chloride of Sodium Sulphate of Potash Sulphocyanide of Potassium Phosphate of Lime ,, of Magnesia and Iron J Organic .... 0.391 Inorganic . . 0.278 The salivary glands excrete some foreign substances from the blood as rapidly as the kidneys. Iodide of potassium, for example, was detected in the saliva and urine ten minutes after five grains in a state of solution had been swallowed. The following is the result of an analysis of pure gastric juice obtained from a dog through a fistula in the stomach. Water ...... 97.288 Solids . . . . 2.712 : Organic matter, chiefly Pepsin . . . 2.247 Chloride of Sodium „ Potassium Phosphate of Lime y Inorganic . . 0.465 „ Magnesia and I Iron J 100.000 The author believes the quantity daily secreted by a healthy individual is equal to one fifteenth of his weight. To the question—why is the I stomach not digested? the author replies, because the mucus covering the walls of the stomach prevents the gastric juice getting at them. The pancreatic secretion has not only the power of transforming starch into sugar, aud emulsifying fats, but also of digesting protein substances, as first stated by Pappenheim and Purkinje. This latter fact was mores especially corroborated by putting hard-boiled white of egg into the! empty duodenum of a cat, placing a ligature above and below, and after] twenty hours sacrificing the animal. On examination, the portion of intestine included between the ligatures was found distended with fluid of] a slightly acid reaction, having much the appearance of chyme without 1 the intermixture of bile. No fragments of egg remained. Dr. Corvisaht (Paris).—Remarks on a Critique of Dr. Brinton's on my Memoir on a little-known Function of the Pancreas. Dub. Quart., vol. xxix, p. 66. The author states that, in preparing an infusion of the pancreas fori the purposes of study, it is necessary to avoid crushing the gland, agi-85 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. tating it frequently in water, or protracting the infusion beyond the period when the fluid becomes clouded. Turbidity shows that the pan- creatic fluid is beginning to act upon the fatty matters of the gland itself. In this state the juice of the pancreas no longer exhibits any digestive action ; and as these, says Corvisart, were the conditions under which Brinton performed his experiments, we can readily understand how he obtained such contradictory results. In order to experiment successfully, the gland must be taken from the animal in full digestion (five hours after a meal), and an infusion made from it as quickly as possible, for the pancreas is one of the organs most liable to putrefaction. One hour's infusion at 1040 Fah. suffices to remove from the gland all its juice, and such an infusion will be found to act upon albumen very readily. Prof. G. Meissner.—Researches on the Digestion of Albuminous Substances. Henle u. Pfeufer's Zeitschr., vol. vii, part 1, p. i, 1859. Canst., vol. i, p. 28. The author studied the changes produced in albuminous substances by the gastric and pancreatic juices. For the former he used a fluid of which 100 c.c. contained .002 to .004 gramme pepsin (commercial), and .08 to .2 per cent, hydrochloric acid. The digestion of albumen, casein, syntonin, gluten, and fibrin, produces, besides peptone, a substance which Meissner names parapeptone. It is obtained when a dilute solution of potash or soda is added to the acid solution of an albumi- nous substance in gastric juice till the acidity is very slight. It forms a flocculent precipitate, readily soluble in the smallest excess of acid or of alkali. Dried, it forms a whitish, pulverizable mass, insoluble in water, readily combining with acids and alkalies, and precipitable from their solu- 1 tions by rectified spirit and ether, but not by absolute alcohol alone. If to a 1 solution of parapeptone in muriatic acid be added a concentrated solution of chloride of sodium or potassium, a flocculent precipitate of muriate of parapeptone, easily soluble in water, is obtained. The author proposes to employ therapeutically solutions of peptone, prepared by digesting the whites of three eggs, or half a pound of flesh, in 1000 c.c. of artificial gastric juice. The artificial gastric juice may be made by adding 2 c.c. hydrochloric acid, and 0.04 gramme pepsin to 1000 c.c. of water. F. Hunefeld.— On the Solubility of Albumen by Artificial Gastric Juice. Greifswald, 1859, 8vo. The author concludes, from a series of comparative experiments with hydrochloric, lactic, and acetic acids, separately added to artificial diges- tive fluid, that the hydrochloric acid acts most thoroughly and speedily, the acetic acid least so. Chr. Hempel.—On Rumination in Man. Jena, 18^9, 8vo. Among the cases recorded by the author are five which he himself ?xamined. (1) A gentleman, aged twenty-four, who had previously au nordinate appetite, and had often bolted his food unmasticated. The :aking of exercise immediately after eating aggravated the affection, whilst •motional excitement controlled it. Abundant meals appeared to en- tourage the rumination, as did warm or vegetable nourishment. Dover's lowder or lupulin lessened it, and appropriate diet entirely suppressed it.REPORT OX T1IK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 8G (2) An epileptic patient, aged twenty-four, from his childhood ruminated salad, cabbage, and fat. Sulphate of iron, followed by tannin, with Tine. Quin. Co., and, lastly, lupulin, were useful. (3) A man of twenty- two had for eight weeks returned his food, but was subsequently cured after using wormwood tea. (4) In a female of twenty-five the symptom was transitory. (5) The last case is that of a man who at first rumi- nated only after exercise, and the more readily the less the food was masti- cated. Mental excitement prevented it ; bending the body forward greatly controlled it. The author regards the oesophagus as the original seat of rumination. A. Dumur.—On Rumination. Lausanne, 1859, 8vo. An exposition of all the phenomena that accompany rumination. The author particularly insists that the morbid variety differs essentially from that natural to the Ruminantia. He refers the former to paralysis of the abdominal portion of the oesophagus and cardiac region of the stomach. H. Koebner.—On the Changes undergone by Cane Sugar in the Alu mentary Canal. Breslaw, 1859, 8vo. The conclusions the author arrived at are—1. Cane sugar undergoes no change when left from two to four days, at 1040 Fah., in natural gastric juice obtained from a dog. 2. Neither is cane transformed into grape sugar in the living stomach. 3. Lactic acid may, after a time, be detected in a mixture of cane sugar, by means of bile which has been freed from mucus. 4. In the ileum cane is transformed into fruit sugar, at least the presence of the latter can be detected in the ileum by means of the polarizing apparatus. 5. Sugar is largely absorbed by the stomach, duodenum, and small intestines. 6. Cane sugar is partly transformed in the latter into lactic acid and fruit sugar. 7. In dogs and rabbits cane sugar occasionally passes unchanged from the intestines into the portal blood, and this is probably the reason why dogs fed on sugar excrete a smaller quantity of urea. 8. Cane sugar, even when eaten iu quantity (by dogs), does not reappear in the urine ; but, after a saccharine diet, the amount of uric acid appears to be increased. Dl VlNTSCUGAU.— On the Period required for the Transformation of\ Starch into Dextrin and Sugar by the Action of the Saliva. Venice, 1859, 8vo. When boiled starch, rendered blue by the addition of iodine, was added drop by drop to saliva, the blue colour instantly vanished ; whereas, when raw starch was employed, the colour disappeared more gradually. Sugar was traceable, the author states, in twelve seconds when the starch was boiled, but not before three minutes when it was unboiled. It may- be inferred that starchy food commences to become dextrin and sugar even in the mouth, especially as many starchy substances are taken at a temperature of more than ioo°Fah., and the saliva is itself two degrees ■warmer than arterial blood. Prof. BisciiOFF (Munich).—On the Nutrition of Man and other Animals. Archiv. Gen. de Med., Aug., i860, p. 129. J After pointing out the value of the difiercnt kinds of food, Bisciwn remarks that, if the nutritive material does not equal the loss sustainedDIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 87 by the body in any given time, an immediate diminution in weight is the result. Consequently, if we desire to increase the strength of a man, or augment the bulk of any other animal, it is not sufficient merely to increase once for all the daily quantity of food taken ; for no sooner does the volume of the body increase, than it requires a proportional and pro- gressive augmentation of nutritive material, in order to keep it increasing. At first, the increase in weight is rapid, but gradually, as the animal approaches its maximum of size, the daily amount becomes proportionally less, even in spite of a progressive augmentation of food. This arises from the animal being unable to assimilate the immense quantity of food that has become necessary to produce the increase. The degree of the transformation of azotized tissues does not solely depend on the relative quantity of such matters in the body, for it is, to some extent, regulated by the amount of fat. When, for example, an animal poor in fat, but rich in muscle, is starved, the oxygen inspired acts chiefly upon the azotized tissues. Whereas, if the animal be poor in muscle, but rich in fat, the oxygen combines freely with the latter, causing scarcely any transformation to take place in the former. It is a well-known fact that fat men and other animals, when not required to make any violent muscular exertion, support fasting very much better than lean individuals. It is their fat, the author says, which hinders the unnecessary transformation of the azotized constituents of the frame. The same changes that occur in starved animals also take place in those that are insufficiently nourished. A fat animal requires less food than a lean one, in order to exert a given amount of power. In the former the fat prevents the decomposition of the muscles, whereas in the latter the decomposition is very considerable, and consequently a greater amount of azotized materials is required for its repair. At the same time it must be admitted that the fat animal loses some of its adipose tissue. See also Bischoff's work on the 'Laws of Nutrition in Carnivorous Animals.' Leipsic, i860. LIVEE. Prof. E. Wagner.— Contribution to the Normal Structure of the Liver, Archiv d. Heilk., vol. 1, part 3, p. aji, i860. For information on the course of the bile-ducts, see a paper by Prof. Jul. Budge, in the Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., 1859, p. 642. Dr. R. M'Donnell.—On the Formation of Sugar and Amyloid Sub- stance in the Animal Economy. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., May 15th, p. 14c I he author puts the question—Is the liver endowed with the power of converting amyloid substance into sugar during life, and health? In order to elucidate this question, he withdrew, by means of a catheter blood from the right side of the heart in the living animal, and the results were— 1st. In twelve experiments made on dogs, for some weeks before fed exclusively on meat, traces of sugar were found in the blood in five ; there was no sugar found in the blood of the remaining seven. 2d. In four rabbits, fed on boiled eggs, meat, and butter, for some davs no sugar was detected in the blood drawn from the right side of the 3d. In three dogs, fed on mixed diet, and three rabbits, fed on carrots,REPORT ON T11K INSTITUTES OE MEDICINE. 88 potatoes, &o.| sugar was found in the l)lood of the right side of the heart nnd in equal quantity in blood from the carotid. 4th. In three rabbitB, fed on vegetables, sugar was found in the blood withdrawn during life from the right side of the heart; but double, and in one instance more than treble, the amount was found in the blood removed from the same locality after the animals were killed. Hence, says M'Donnell, one seems in some degree justified in con- cluding that in vegetable-eating animals the blood is normally saccharine ; but that the liver does not form and pour out into the blood of the hepatic vessels sugar specially derived from the transformation of the amyloid substance. Behthelot and De Luca.—Researches on Sugar formed from Hepatic Glucogene. Compt. Rend., vol. xlix, p. 213. By combining liver sugar -with chloride of sodium (common salt), Berthelot and De Luca have succeeded in obtaining large, colourless, transparent crystals, the watery solution of which ferments with yeast, and reduces the oxide of copper. The composition of the crystals, as ascertained by analysis, is represented by the accompanying formula— 2012H12b12, 2HO + NaCl. The authors conclude therefrom that liver sugar is not only exactly the same as that found in diabetic urine, but also that it is identical with the BUgar of the grape. Dr. Harley.—On the Saccharine Function of the Liver. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 38, p. 289. Lancet, 20th October, p. 386. Harley relates a number of experiments which he performed along ■with Sharpey on animals, under a variety of different conditions. The results obtained, he says, prove that, if proper precautions be taken, sugar may always be detected in the blood of a healthy animal during digestion, and that the liver is one of the seats of its formation. The author sums upliis results in the following terms : 1. Sugar is a normal constituent of the blood of the general cir- culation. 2. The portal blood of an animal fed on mixed diet contains sugar. 3. The portal blood of a fasting animal, as well as of an animal fed solely on flesh, is devoid of sugar. 4. The livers of healthy dogs con- tain sugar, whether their diet be animal or vegetable. 5. Under favorable circumstances, and with proper precautions, saccharine matter may be found in the liver of an animal (a dog) after three entire days' rigid fasting. 6. The sugar found in the bodies of animals fed on mixed diet is partly derived directly from the food, partly formed in the liver. 7. The livers of animals restricted to flesh diet possess the power of forming glucogene, which glucogene is, at least in part, transformed into sugar in the liver. 8. As sugar is found in the liver at the moment of death (even when the plan of freezing it has been strictly attended to), its presence cannot properly be ascribed to a post-mortem change, but is to be regarded as the result of a natural condition. Bernard.—On the Glucogene of the Liver. L'Union Med., No. 35, BeraarcUpenks (1) of the discovery of glucogene; (2) of the mode of preparing it; (3) of its varieties in different classes of animals; (4) ot its properties ; and (5), of its origin.DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 89 In the class mammalia, the proportion of glucogcne in the liver is greater in small than in large animals. From the livers of birds it rapidly dis- appears after death, while it remains for a long time in the livers of cold- blooded animals, such, for example, as frogs and fish ; this is specially- remarkable in the liver of the ray, which may be permitted to putrefy without the glucogene disappearing. The liver of the ray is alkaline, and evolves ammonia, and it is the alkali most probably which hinders the glucogene from passing into sugar. The livers of birds, in which the transformation of glucogene takes place very rapidly, are frequently acid. Glucogene has been discovered by Bernard in the oyster and in insects, and he thinks it may likewise be found in the Crustacea. Glucogene behaves exactly like vegetable starch, having nearly the same reactions and composition. It is transformed into sugar by means of vegetable and animal ferments, by sulphuric and hydrochloric acids. Nitric acid changes it into a kind of gum and mucic acid. Glucogene does not reduce the oxide of copper. Iodine immediately gives with it a red colour, not first a blue, then violet, and lastly red, in which respect it dilfers from vegetable starch. Bernard thinks, however, this difference in the reaction of these two substances is entirely due to a slight change the glucogene has undergone during the process of extraction from the liver. With respect to the origin of glucogene, Bernard remarks that it is im- possible for us any longer to say that it is the product of the vegetable starch taken as food, for the livers of animals that have been for months strictly confined to a diet of boiled flesh contain it, and it is well known that boiled muscle contains neither starch nor sugar. The following experiments were instituted with the view of discovering the source of hepatic glucogene. Two dogs, of about the same size, were tkept during eight days without food or drink of any kind. At the end of this period, one received every two days about an ounce of fat and Iftbout ten ounces of water; the other, the same weight of gelatin, and a I similar quantity of water. Neither the fat nor the gelatin contained any isugar. In eight days, two hours after being fed, the animals were killed |by section of the medulla oblongata. The lacteals of the dog fed with fat contained a milky fluid, while in those of the other dog the fluid was i dear and transparent. In the liver of the animal fed on gelatin abundance !of glucogene was found, while in that of the one fed on fat neither gluco- gene nor sugar could be detected. Hence it appears that the animal organism can prepare glucogene from gelatin, but not from fat. In a second series of experiments on two other dogs, which had in a I similar manner fasted during eigbt days, Bernard administered to one of ii;hem from about seven to ten ounces of well-washed ox-fibrin (blood ?), 1 ind to the other an equal quantity of vegetable starch. At the end of i :ight days, when the animals were killed, plenty of glucogene was found tin the liver of the dog fed on fibrin, and none in that of the animal fed on • -tarch. So it would appear that the source of the glucogene in the animal economy is not to be looked for in the starch of the vegetable kingdom. Dr. Pavy. — On the Alleged Sugar-forming Function of the Liver. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, p. $28. This communication is an abridgment of a paper hearing the sameKUPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OE MEDICINE. DO title presented by the author in i8f,8, with some additional matter. Ue says that, although blood collected from the right side of the heart alter death contains abundance of sugar, yet when the blood is removed from the same part during life, it contains only a trace of sugar. As regards the liver, the author says, if it contains any sugar at the moment of death, it is only to the extent of the merest trace. The glucogene which is formed in the liver, although most susceptible of undergoing transformation into sugar when in contact with a ferment, resists, he thinks, this kind of trans- formation under natural circumstances during life. Tn the transformation of glucogene into sugar in the liver after death, the average of four analyses gave a loss of one part and a half of that substance for the production of one part of sugar. See also the author's Lettsomian Lectures in the 'Lancet.' November and December, pp. 503, 529, 555, 579, 607, and 629. C. Schmidt (Dorpat).—On the presence of Sugar in the Blood of the Portal Vein, and in that of the Sub-hepatic Veins. Coaipt. Rend., vol. xlix, p. 63. Schmidt examined the blood of the portal vein in two dogs during the digestion of flesh, and in one which had been kept fasting during two days, and in no case did he find it contain sugar. On the other hand, in the blood of the sub-hepatic veins of the same animals he fouud nearly 1 per cent, of sugar in the dogs fed on flesh, and \ per cent, in the fasting animal. The exact figures were— Quantity of Sugar. Portal Vein. Hepatic Vein. 0 0.93 0 O.99 Dog kept fasting during two days 0 0.3I From these experiments it is concluded that the liver is the seat of the saccharine formation. Dr. J. L. W. Thudichum.—Experimental Epicrisis of some late Re- searches on Liver-Sugar. Brit. Med. Jouru., 17th March, p. 206. Thudichum begins by statiug that the results of some experiments he made in 18 $9 are adverse to the opinion of Pavy, and in accordance with that of llarley. Moreover, they afforded him the opportunity of ascer- taining the sources of fallacy in at least two of the modes of proceeding adopted by the former observer. Thudichum relates some experiments, and then adds— The first experiment showed that, when a liver containing sugar is treated with caustic potassa under circumstances preventing any rise of the temperature of the mixture, the sugar, under the influence of the caustic potassa and the oxygen of the air and water, is rapidly destroyed. The second experiment showed that the destruction of sugar, under cir-91 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. cumstances favouring a rise of the temperature, is more rapid still; the presence of sugar being, of course, assumed or allowed. It also showed the rapid destruction of sugar, under the influence of potassa and air, at tbc ordinary temperature. The third experiment exhibited the influence of a raised temperature aloue in destroying (hypothetical) sugar mixed with caustic potassa. He concludes, " that no experiment can be admitted as proving the absence of sugar from the liver, in which the contact of that organ with potash, air, and water, at the ordinary or any higher temperature, has not been avoided." Colin.—On the Production of Sugar in relation to the Re-absorption of Fat, and the Development of Heat during Fasting and Hybernation. Compt. Rend., Nov., i860, p. 684. The conclusions that the author has arrived at are— 1. That the re-absorption or combustion of fat, the production of sugar, and the supporting of the animal heat, are phenomena intimately con- nected, and mutually dependent on each other. 2. Abstinence cannot be long supported by lean animals ; their tempe- rature falls very rapidly, and the sugar disappears from the liver, the blood, the lymph, and the other fluids which are normally saccharine. 3. In fat or well-conditioned individuals subjected to fasting, all other conditions being equal, the duration of life is in exact proportion to the quantity of fat stored up in the tissues; so long as the animal has fat, life continues, the production of sugar goes on, and the temperature is not notably diminished. 4. During hybernation the production of sugar is in direct proportion to the re-absorption of fat. 5. In all animals deprived of food the liver undergoes a remarkable change, the cells lose their fat, and the organ becomes atrophied. BILE. P. Hoppe.—Upon the Polarizing Properties of Bile-substances, and their Products of Decomposition. Virch. Archiv, vol. xv, p. 126. Canst., vol. i, p. 235. Dr. Tuudichuii.—On the Colouring Matter of the Bile. Meetiu" of Brit. Assoc., Oxford. Lancet, 7th July. H. Nasse.—On the Transformation of Starch by Bile. Archiv fur "-em. Arb., vol. iv, part 3. Canst., vol. i, p. 197. Schmidt, vol.\o<, P- H5- Ed. Schaefer.-- An Analysis of the Bile of a Criminal. Wien. Aerztl. ^ Zeits., vol. xlv, p. Jn, Canst., vol. i, p. 235. There-being as yet nothing known regarding'the existence of elyco- chohc acid m human bile, Schaefer availed himself of the opportunity of analysing the bile of a criminal immediately after execution ; and found in this specimen of bile, glycin, as well as choloidinic and glycocholic92 ltKPORT ON Til E INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Dr. Folwakczny.—Chemical Contribution to the Theory of Icterus. Zeitschr. d. Wien. Aerztc, No. 15. Do., Communications from the Path. Ghent, Laboratory, No. 6. Canst., vol. ii, p. 77. 1. In three cases of icterus, Fohvarczny tested the urine for biliary acids, without being able to detect a single trace. The same negative re- sult followed his examination, in six cases, of normal urine. A similar result was previously obtained by Scherer. 2. In the cases of icterus, ten-grain doses of benzoic acid were given, and it reappeared in the urine in the form of hippuric acid. This and the former experiment, he thinks, prove that the now generally received opinions regarding the nature of icterus are erroneous, more especially as regards the presence of the biliary acids in the urine in cases of jaundice. 3. The urine and fseces in five cases of colica pictonum were analysed, and in the urine of one lead was detected. The patient who voided this specimen of urine was then treated with iodide of potassium, and the lead soon disappeared from the urinary secretion. 4. Some experiments were made on the absence of chlorides from the urine in certain diseases. The following case is one of special interest. The urine of a patient labouring under an attack of acute articular rheu- matism was acid, of a specific gravity of 1030, contained an excess of urea, uric acid, and phosphates, and an average amount of chlorides. One day the chlorides suddenly disappeared from this urine, and at the same time a small quantity of albumen was detectable, and on the same day an attack of pericarditis came on. Hoppe says that the absence of chlorides in certain cases of disease arises from there being none given with the food. Our author's experiments, however, show that such is not the case ; for in the urine of a patient who was taking abundance of salt with his food (salted soup, salted meat, and salted water) no chlorides could be detected. MILK. F. A. Fluckigeu.—On the Estimation of the Quantity of Fat in Milk. Schweiz. Zeitsch. f. Pharm., No. 5, p. 103. Boudet and Boussingault.—On the Estimation of Milk-sugar in Milk. Journ. de Pharm. et de Chem., vol. xxxiii, p. 416. M. A. Baines.—The Comparative Properties of Human and Animal Milks; a new Theory as to " Essences,'' and a new Interpretation of some Physiological Fads. Churchill, i860. Pamphlet, pp. 31. F. Hoppe.—Researches on the Constituents of Milk, and on their Proxi- mate Decomposition. "Virch. Archiv, vol. xvii, part 5 and 6, p. 417. Canst., vol. i, p. 209. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 3. Hoppe informs us (1) that it not unfrequently happens that perfectly fresh cow's milk has an acid reaction, and that this does not arise from the presence of carbonic acid; (2) that the normal milk of the cow con- tains a certain quantity of albumen as well as casein ; (3) that the sugar in milk ferments even when the oxygen of the air is prevented from coming in contact with it; (4) that, in fermenting, the sugar passes di- rectly into lactic acid, without undergoing a previous metamorphosis}93 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. (<j) that during the fermentation of milk-sugar no hydrogen is evolved (Pasteur says there is) ; (6) that the acid reaction of fresh normal milk is due neither to the presence of free phosphoric acid nor of acid phos- phates (Lehmann), hut to an organic acid which is, in all probability, lactic acid. (7) Hoppe made several analyses of the gases contained in milk, but the results varied so much that they cannot be looked upon as satisfactory ; however, it may be said that in general milk contains about 3 per cent, by volume of gas, the greater part of which is carbonic acid ; very little nitrogen, and no oxygen, was detected. (8) Fresh milk (cow's) absorbs oxygen from the air, and gives off carbonic acid; (9) the quan- tity of carbonic acid exhaled is greater than the amount of oxygen absorbed. (10) A certain quantity of fat is formed during the process of the absorption of oxygen and the exhalation of carbonic acid gas; and (11) in all probability the formation of the fat depends upon the decom- position of the casein. Dr. Gibb.—On Saccharine Fermentation ivithin the Female Breast, and its Influence on the Child. Meeting of Brit. Association, Oxford. Lancet, 7th July. Brit. Med. Journ., 14th July, p. 548. In 1853, Vogel announced the discovery of vibriones in human milk, which he believed to be the result of fermentation. From 1854 to the present time Gibb has examined many specimens of milk, and has occa- sionally found two genera of animalcules present in that secreted in the glands of those whose general health is out of order from various causes. The two varieties of animalcules are found at various periods of lactation, but not in the same individual. They consist of vibriones and monads. The milk is always neutral or alkaline (never acid), and well supplied with sugar. The children fed with the milk are, as a rule, badly nou- rished, often greatly emaciated, and die of inanition, unless their food be changed. The act of fermentation, the author considers, is solely due to the sugar; and the rapidity with which he has observed the milk become sour out of the body is, he thinks, an argument in favour of intra-mammary fermentation. Dr. Hare.—On a Case of Secretion of Milk from the Bight Axilla. Lancet, 27th Oct., p. 405. Tn Hare's case there was a swelling in the axilla about the size of half a walnut. A month after the woman was delivered, the swelling began to discharge a small quantity of milk through a very minute opening in the skin. The discharge at the time the patient was last seen (seven months after it began) still continued. The fluid possessed the micro- scopical and chemical characters of milk. PANCREAS. W. Turner, M.B. (Lond.)—On the Employment of Transparent Injec- tions in the Examination of the Minute Structure of the Human Pancreas. Micros. Journ., July, p. 147. Turner investigated the relations of the minute ducts to the ultimate gland-follicles of the human pancreas, by means of a series of injected preparations. These he obtained by forcing transparent injections throughItEPOltT ON THE INSTITUTES OE MKDICJNE. the excretory duct into the ultimate follicles of the gland, nnd afterwards rendering the preparations more transparent hy means of glycerine. The large excretory duct extends, he says, along the centre of the gland from head to tail, and is enclosed on all sides by large lobules. From it, at intervals, smaller ducts proceed, which enter the large lobules, and therein divide and subdivide into line branches, for the ultimate lobules. Some of the line branches arise at right angles, others at a more or less acute angle, and, after a very short course, they become connected with the ultimate gland-follicles of the lobule to which they belong. Each duct ns a general rule, preserves the same calibre from the point at which it commences, to that at which it either gives off a branch or terminates in an ultimate lobule* In some instances the ducts possess dilatations on their walls, either confined to one side or existing at corresponding points on both sides. The ducts do not always terminate in the &ame manner. In some instances they pass to the base of the lobule, and therwfrom it, as from a centre, the saccular dilatations of the ultimate follicles spring. In others, the duct runs for a short distance along the base of the lobule, giving origin in its course to the follicles, which are connected to its sides and extremity. In either case, the fine membrane forming the wall of the duct is continuous with the membrane constituting the wall of the follicles, so that the cavities of the follicles are continuous with that of the duct. The number of follicles present in an ultimate lobule varies considerably. There are also great differences in their shape and size. Some are spheroidal; others laterally elongated, so as to present a more or less oval form; others, again, are pyriform. When distended by injec- tion, they all present convex, smooth, and well-defined outlines. On account of the general shape of the follicles, and the mode in which they are grouped together in the lobule, they resemble in appearance a bunch of grapes, witb whicb they have frequently been compared. The secreting cells of the follicles form a closely packed layer, lining the inner surface of the membrane forming the wall of the follicle. They are spheroidal in shape, aud form a true glandular epithelium. Jul. Klob.—On Anomalies of the Pancreas. Wien. Ztschr. N. F. ii, 46, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 281. The irregularities of the pancreas described by Klob were observed in Rokitansky's 'Pathological Laboratory.' 1. In the case of a girl, aged twentv, who died of phthisis, a supernumerary pancreas was found attached to the great curvature of the stomach, lying between the mus- cular fibres and the serous covering. 2. In another case, the super- numerary organ was attached to the upper part of the jejunum. 3. In a third case, a small additional spleen was found imbedded in the end of the pancreas. BLOOD-GLANDS. Prof. H. His.—On the Anatomy of Shut Glands or Follicles. Ztschr. f. wiss. Zool., vol. x, p. 3.34, i860. Prof. Henle.—On t/te Anatomy of the Lenticular Follicles and the Lymphatic Glands. Henle u. Pf.'s Ztschr., vol. viii, p. 201, i860. Prof. EL His.—On the Thymus Gland. Ztschr. f. wiss. Zool., vol. x, p. 341, i860. Schmidt, vol. 108, pp. 18 and 20.DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 96 Prof. HVRTIi.— The Blood-vessels of the Thyroid Gland. Oest. Ztschr. f. prakt Ileilk., vol. vi, p. 19, i860. Next to the spleen, the thyroid is, cf all the organs of the body, the most abundantly supplied with blood. The united diameter of its four arteries is not much smaller than that of the four arteries of the brain, whereas its weight is only from 1 to 2 ounces, while that of the brain is from 34 to 65 ounces. Hyrtl states that it is untrue that the arteries of the thyroid gland freely communicate with each other; neither do those of the left side anastomose freely with those of the right, nor do the superior anastomose freely with the inferior. In the foetus, up till the end of the third month, the thyroid gland consists of two distinct portions, which afterwards gradually become united in front of the trachea. So it is not difficult to understand why there should uot be any very free communication between the arteries of the opposite sides. The v*ins communicate much more freely with each other than the arteries. Bodecker.—Contribution to our Knowledge of the Constituents of the Spleen. Henle u. Pfeuf., vol. vii, p. 1^3. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 4. Canst, vol. i, p. 220. Bodecker confirms the existence of inosite and cholestearin in the spleen of the ox. In the fresh spleen of a criminal, besides these sub- stances, he also found hypoxanthin. ABSORBENTS. Prof. Hyrtl.—On the Origin of the Lacteals. Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vol. vi, p. 21, i860. Pappenheim.—On the Lymphatic Vessels. Compt. Piend., vol. J, i860, p. .30. The author studied the course and distribution of the lymphatic vessels by arresting the escape of the lymph, and thereby causing them to become engorged and visible to the naked eye. By this means he ascertained that the spleen is better supplied with these vessels than the liver, and the liver than the lungs. In the diaphragm there are very few. The liver of the horse is tolerably richly supplied with lymphatics; but it is in the pancreas of the mole that these vessels are found in the greatest nu mber. In a subsequent communication (Compt. Rend., 23d April, p. 795), the author adds:—(1.) That he found the pulmonary pleura of a mare very rich in lymphatics (less so, however, than, the liver). (2.) In de- taching the membrane with the fingers and handle of the scalpel, he observed that the pleura sends in membranous prolongations amon°-'the lobes and lobules, accompanied by lymphatics. In fact, there are° the author states, two layers of these vessels, an external and an internal and it is the internal layer which sends branches amongst the lobes. In this respect, the lymphatics of the lung differ from those of the spleen, and perhaps also from those of the liver, for in these latter organs the vessels are not seen to penetrate deeply into the organ. (3.) The pul- monary pleura is much richer in lymphatics than the costal pleura. (4 ) The lymphatics of the diaphragm also constitute two layers; the in-HEl'ORT ON T1IK INSTITUTES Of MEDICINE. 00 ternal, in which the vessels are the largest, sending branches among the fibres. (5.) The thoracic surface of the diaphragm appears to be richer in lymphatics tlian the abdominal surface. GKNITO-UItlNARY SYSTEM. F. Heller.— Urinary Calculi, their Origin, Detection, and Analysis, with special reference to their Diagnosis and Treatment. With 12 Coloured Plates. Vienna, i860. Dr. PlNOUS. — Volumetrical Analysis of Phosphoric Acid by means of the Acetate of Uranium. Virchow's Archiv., vol. xvi, p. 137. Dr. C. Neurauer.— Contribution to Urine Analysis. Archiv. f. wiss. Ileilk., vol. iv, p. 228. Canst., vol. i, p. 243. D. E. Mulder.—On Indigo as a Test for Grape and Fruit Sugar. Archiv v. Donders und Berlin, vol. ii, part 1, p. 44. Canst., vol. i, p. 198. Dr. James M'Giiie.— On the Method of Detecting the Presence and Estimating the Quantity of Sugar in Diabetic Urine, by means of con- centrated Sulphuric Acid. Glas. Med. Journ., April, p. 42. Ch. Leconte. — On the Detection of Sugar in the Urine. Archiv. Gen. de Med., 1859, p. 593. Haughton.—On the Natural Constants of the Healthy Urine of Man. Physiological Experiments on Strychnine and Nicotin. Reprint. Fred. Nunneley.—Chemical Examination of a Urinary Calculus. Glas. Med. Journ., April, p. 16. V. Kletzinsky.— On the Chemical Constitution and Semeiotic Im- portance of Urine Indigo. Wien. Wochenschrift, No. 27. Canst., vol. ii, p. 77. Dr. Seller.—On the Determination of the Proportion of Solids in the Urine of Health and Disease. Ed. Med. Journ., Aug., p. 105. Wreden.—Quantitative Analysis of Hippuric Acid by means of the Volumetric Method. Bull, de St. Petersb., Class. Phys. Med., vol. xvii, p. 500. Canst., vol. i, p. 243. Bodecker.—Contributions from the Chemical Laboratory of the Phy- siological Institution in Goltingen. Henle u. Pfeuf's Zeits., vol. vii, p. T30. G. Burckhardt.—On the Epithelium of the Urinary Passages. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xvii, pp. 94—134. Dr. Houget.—Memoir on the Gubernaculum Testis, and on the Descent of the Testicle. Journ. de la Phys., July, i860, p. 570. Alfons Bilharz.—On the Genital Organs of Ethiopian Eunuchs. Ztschr. f. Wissenschaft. Zool., vol. x, p. 281, i860. Arthur E. Durham.—On Hermaphroditism, as illustrated (principally) by Specimens in the Museum of Guy's Hospital. Guy's llosp. Rep., vol. vi, p. 421. For an analysis of the urine in diabetes see Case xx, iu the report of Neukomm's Thesis, given at page 13. Prof. liDMUND A. Parkes.—The Composition of the Urine in Health and Disease, and under the Action of Remedies, pp. 404. As stated in the preface, the title of the book expresses its exactGENITO-UltlNARY SYSTEM. 97 nature. The author has not entered into the chemical history, nor into the mode of determining the amounts of the urinary constituents, but merely enumerated the alterations they undergo under various circum- stances. The hook is divided into two great parts; in the first of which, the urine in health is considered; in the second, the urine of disease. Each part is preceded by an introduction, in which, in the one case, the normal constituents of healthy urine, and, in the other, the abnormal constituents of unhealthy urine, are enumerated. The present volume is intended only as the first of a series. In the second, Parkes proposes to consider the alterations in the excretions from the skin, the lungs, and the intestines; while the third will be devoted to the consideration of the nature of the tissue-changes which lead to alterations in the excretions. The work before us contains a summary of the various researches that have been made within the last few years in this important field of inquiry—the urine of man. In chapter i, the variations in the urine during health, from physio- logical conditions, are enumerated ; such, for example, as those arising from sex, age, race, food, exercise, climate, &c. In chapter 2, the variations in the urine caused by the use of medicinal agents, such as anaesthetics, medicated baths, mineral waters, vegetable and mineral acids, alkalies, and alkaloids. While chapter 3 is devoted to the consideration of the abnormal constituents and urinary sediments. The author says that, in determining the amount of the normal constitu- ents of the urine in sick persons, we must remember that we scarcely ever know beforehand what is the physiological amount proper to the indivi- dual, t. e. the amount he excreted daily in a state of health ; and yet, without such knowledge, how are we to tell whether he is passing a greater or less quantity of water, urea, uric acid, sulphuric acid, &c, than he did when in health? We cannot, of course, apply to the individual the average derived from the collective analyses in a number of persons, though this has been often done. For example, the mean excretion of urea in men between twenty and forty is 33 grammes (512 grains); but we should greatly err if, in investigating the urine of a particular patient, we con- cluded that, in health, he would pass 33 grammes of urea daily. A glauce at the table, which Parkes gives at page 7 of the Introduction, shows that he might pass either an average of 18 grammes or of 45 grammes daily, or any amount between these figures. How then can a conception of the patient's healthy excretion be formed? The author says, we must either continue our observations beyond the period of illness into that of complete convalescence and health (a plan always to be adopted, if possible), or we must form a provisional estimate of what amount the patient would pass in health. The formula for this estimate Parkes offers merely as an attempt at a solution. The ratio of excretion to body-weight is, on the whole, the most constant fact at present known, and forms the basis of the calculation. Empirical Formula for calculating the Urinary Excretion in a Sick Person, whose Normal Excretion is Unknown. 1. Ascertain the weight of the person in pounds avoirdupois. 2. Multiply the following figures by the weight; the result is the excretion in grains in twenty-four hours : 798 BHPOBT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. In Men be- tween twenty iind forty. In Women between twenty anfl forty. In Children from tliree to eight. In Children from eight to sixteen. 7 „ » Jn ioung \f 1*11 ftrwl A\*f >im/mi .111-11 UI1U ' ' IslIJCIJ from sixteen to twenty. 3-S3Q 2.960 6.830 5.200 4-39° Chlorine 0.875 0.817 1.440 1.097 0.926 Sulphuric acid ... 0.214 0.250 1-414 o-3 '5 0.266 Phosphoric acid . 0336 0336 0.650 0-495 0.418 3. Make a further correction for middle and old age, by calculating according to columns 1 or 2, and then deducting 10 per cent., if the per- son be between forty and fifty; 20 per cent., if between fifty and sixty ■ 30 per cent., if between sixty and seventy; and 50 per cent., above seventy. These numbers, it must be borne in mind, are quite pro- visional, as the analyses are so few. Future observations will confirm or correct them. 4. Correct for diet.—If the persons have been starving for two or more days (as in some fevers), deduct one third from the calculation, when made according to the table. If the diet be meagre, deduct one sixth or one eighth; if pretty plentiful, yet still below that of health, deduct one tenth. 5. Correct for movement.—If there be total inactivity, deduct one tenth ; if merely quietude, deduct one twentieth. Corrections ought also to be made for the amount of fluid drunk, the action of the external temperature, and the condition of the other elimi- nating organs, &c.; but our author has not yet determined the proper figures for these agencies. Only the chief urinary ingredients are here given, as the amounts of the rest are so uncertain. The uric acid, being so little influenced by weight, cannot be calculated. Parkes subjoins a case of his own to show the working of the plan. A healthy man, aged thirty, on moderate hospital diet, weighed 114 lbs. Required the physiological amount of urea in twenty-four hours. 3.53 x 114 = 402.42 grains. Correct for moderate diet; deduct one eighth : 402.42 — 50.3 =352.12 grains. Correct for bodily inactivity; deduct one twentieth: 352.12—17.65 = 334.47 grains. The physiological amount determined by actual experiment (mean of six days) in this man was 346.7 grains, being only 12 grains above the calcu- lated amount. Rev. Samuel Hatjghton.—On the Natural Constants of the Urine of Man. Dub. Quart., vol. xxx, p. 1 (concluded from vol. xxviii, p. 17). See last Year Book, p. 97. Haughton made a number of observations on the food taken by the persons he experimented upon, particularly with reference to the nitrogen received in the food, compared with the quantity of nitrogen excreted by the urine. The results of his observations he gives in detail, and then deduces from them the following inferences: 1. The quantity of urea passed per day, by men in health, varies withGEXITO-TJIUNAItY SYSTEM. 99 their food and occupation, the latter being the principal cause, and re- gulating the other. _ 2. Men employed only in manual or routine bodily labour are suffi- ciently well fed on vegetable diet, and discharge on an average 400 grains of urea per day, of which 300 grains are spent in vital, and 100 grains in mechanical work. This conclusion, the author says, is in conformity with the experience of the mass of mankind employed in manual labour in all ages and countries. 3. When the work is of a higher order, a better quality of food must be supplied, sufficient to allow of a daily discharge of 533 grains of urea, of which 300 grains, as before mentioned, are spent in vital work, and 233 grains in mental work and the mechanical work which is necessary to keep the body in health. 4. The quantity of urea discharged per day varies also with the weight of the individual, which influences the vital and mental work. 5. The habits, weight, and occupation of an individual enable us to ac- count for a range of the diurnal quantity of urea varying from 300 to 630 grains per day ; and this discharge may be confidently predicted, when the habits and weight are known. Finally, when in any case, the discharge of urea exceeds that cal- culable from the preceding data, it must be attributed to ill health, and most generally to that most fatal of all diseases to which man is liable— anxiety of mind; a vague and unscientific expression, which, he thinks, however, denotes a real disease. This fact alone, our author says, would render the preceding inves- tigation of importance to the physician, as it enables him, in a given case, to pronounce whether there is an excess of urea or not, and a conse- quent waste of the system. He points out how the mere quantity will not decide this question, as from 300 to 630 grains maybe discharged by persons in perfect health, according to their peculiar occupation and physical conditions. Prof. Beale.—A Course of Lectures on Urine, Urinary Deposits, and Calculi. Lect, v, Brit. Med. Journ., 21st April, p. 297, and suc- ceeding numbers. In speaking of precipitates likely to be confounded with albumen, Beale remarks that he obtained a precipitate of uric acid, on adding a little nitric acid to the urine of a patient suffering from large hydatid tumours of the liver. The crystals thus formed were redissolved on the application of heat; but, as the solution cooled, they were again deposited in the form of much larger crystals. A specimen of urine, exhibiting the same peculiarity, contained an excess of urea. Upon the addition of half its bulk of nitric acid, the mixture became nearly solid from the for- mation of crystals of nitrate of urea. The deposit in this instance con- sisted partly of urate of soda. Another specimen of urine from a man, set. 49, suffering from rheumatic fever, contained much urate of soda, gave a precipitate with nitric acid, and cleared on the addition of heat. It also occasionally happens that, when albumen is present, no precipitate is produced by heat, after the addition of a few drops of nitric acid. Dr. Bence Jones thinks that this arises from the nitric acid combining with the albumen to form the nitrate of albumen, which is soluble in a weak100 BEPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. solution of nitric ncid even although boiled, but insoluble in a mixture of acid of greater strength. Jones has also shown that albumen is not always precipitated from very acid urine upon the application of heat, and Beale thinks this depends upon the decomposition of the phosphates by the nitric acid, and the consequent development of free phosphoric acid, in which albumen is I'reely soluble. lie relates some experiments which led him to this conclusion. A weak solution of albumen was treated with a few drops of chloride of calcium, and afterwards with a little ammonia. After having stood for twenty-four hours, it was filtered. In this manner, any soluble phosphates present were removed. The solution was then tested as follows:—i. Albumen was precipitated by the application of heat, or by the addition of nitric acid, as usually occurs. 2. A very small quantity of dilute nitric acid did not prevent the coagulation of the al- bumen by heat. 3. After the addition of a few drops of phosphoric acid, the fluid no longer coagulated on being boiled. In this last case, it is evident that the presence of the phosphoric acid was the cause of the heat failing to precipitate the albumen. At the same time, Beale adds, that it must be admitted that there are several facts connected with the behaviour of weak solutions of albumen with acid, and under the in- fluence of heat, which are not satisfactorily explained, and forms of al- bumen having different reactions are from time to time met with ; so that the whole subject requires further investigation. When speaking of saccharine urine, Beale says, that if a few drops of urine of s. g. 1050 be allowed to evaporate spontaneously on a glass slide, fine crystals of grape sugar may be obtained. These crystals are beautiful objects when examined by polarized light. From experiments made by the author with reference to the practical application of Trommer's test, and Fehling and Barreswil's solutions, he drew the following conclusions : 1st. That if urine contain chloride of ammonium, urate of ammonia, or other ammoniacal salts, the sub-oxide of copper would not be precipitated if only a small quantity of sugar were present. 2d. That unless there be a considerable quantity of one of the above salts present (in which case the blue colour will remain), the mixture will change to a brownish hue upon boiling, but no opalescence or precipitate of sub-oxide of copper will occur. When only a moderate amount of sugar is present, he has been unable to obtain a precipitate, under these circumstances, by the addition of potash and prolonged boiling. 3d. In many cases where the precipitation of the sub-oxide of copper is prevented by the presence of ammoniacal salts, the addition of potash to the solution, and subsequent boiling, causes the production of a pre- cipitate with the evolution of ammoniacal fumes. Hence care should always be taken that a considerable excess of free alkali is present. 4th and lastly. When only small quantities of sugar are present in the urine, and the precipitate is "not decided, the fermentation test should be resorted to. Lecture vi, is devoted to the anatomy of the kidney ; and from his re- searches on the basement membrane of the tubes and of the matrix, Beale has come to the following conclusions:—1st. In the cortical portion of the kidney, there is no evidence of the existence of a "fbro-cellular ma- trix," as was previously pointed out.—* Quain's Anat.,' vol. iii, p. 327. 2d. The fibrous appearance observed in thin sections of the kidney which101 GENITO-UlUNAItY SYSTEM. have been immersed in water is due to n crumpled, creased, and collapsed state of the membranous walls of the secreting tubes and capillary vessels. 3d. A small quantity of a transparent and faintly granular material, with distinct nuclei, the nature of which has not yet been determined, is to be demonstrated between the walls of the tubes and the capillary vessels. 4th. The changes met with in disease can be fully explained without supposing the existence of a fibrous matrix. J. Ch. Lehmann.—On the Acidity of the Human Urine in Health and Disease. Biblioth. for Lager, xiii, p. 18. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 148. Lehmann chiefly devoted his attention to the acidity of the urine in acute febrile states of the system, in which the rapid retrograde metamor- phosis of tissue is supposed to influence very considerably the quality of the urine. From a great number of observations made on such cases, it appears that in general the acidity of the urine is not increased ; it is even frequently under the normal standard. In typhoid fever, the acidity of the urine was found greatest in the first stage of the disease, it diminished in the second, and increased again during convalescence ; but as long as the patient remained in the hospital, the urine was never found to be more acid than in health. In acute rheumatism, the acidity of the urine ap- peared to be in direct proportion to the amount of the pain and to the severity of the fever. The acidity reached its climax when the heart became affected, and through the heart the breathing. In a case of em- physema, Lehmann observed that the acidity of the urine increased pro- portionally with the difficulty of breathing. The urine contained more free acid in cases of pneumonia and pleurisy than in any of the other cases of disease he examined. That the acidity of the urine should, in acute febrile states of the body, be under the normal standard is, at first sight, surprising ; but it is easily understood when it is remembered that the acid is in great measure derived from the food, and that in fevers very little nourishment is taken by the patient. Dr. Wm. Roberts (Manchester).—Observations on some of the Daily Changes of the Urine. Ed. Med. Journ., March, p. 817, and April, p. 906. The observations were made upon a healthy man, twenty-eight years of age, taking moderate exercise, living under most favorable hygienic con- ditions, weighing 144 lbs., and taking solid food only twice a day. The daily mean quantity of urine for ten days, on ordinary diet, was forty-six fluid ounces; giving an hourly mean of two ounces. But the flow was not equable: it rose after meals, fell during fasting, and reached its minimum in the hours of sleep. On one occasion, seventeen ounces six drachms flowed in forty minutes, after taking on an empty stomach half a pound of sugar and a glass of water. Roberts agrees with Dr. B. Jones, that a meal, be it of animal, vegetable, or mixed food, has a powerful and constant effect in lowering the acidity of the urine, fre- quently even rendering it alkaline. When food devoid of mineral constituents was used, no lowering of the acidity of the urine was observed. On two days, sugar or honey was taken instead of the ordinary food ; and the acidity of the urine main- tained itself almost unchanged, with a tendency to elevation rather than depression.102 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. Roberta thinks we may look upon the acidity of the urine as a measure of the state of the blood. When the urine is highly acid, the alkalescence of the blood is below par; and when the urine is alkaline, it is an indica- tion that the alkalinity of the blood is above par. In the paper will be found several tables, on the quantity of solids, &c, discharged in the urine per hour, under different kinds of diet and regimen. Planer.—On the Gases of the Urine, and of Exudations. Zeits. d. Wiener Aerzte, No. xxx, Canst., vol. i, p. 243. 1. It would appear from Planer'8 researches that the only gases the urine contains are carbonic acid, nitrogen, and oxygen. The quantity of free carbonic acid varies from forty-five (during fasting) to a hundred parts by volume per thousand (during digestion). The quantity of nitrogen does not vary ; it is about 8 c.c. in 1000 c.c. urine. Oxygen is found in such minute quantity (0.6 per 1000) that it probably accidentally enters during the process of collecting the urine, notwithstanding the greatest possible care being taken to avoid any such occurrence. 2. As regards the quantity of combined carbonic acid, it seems that it increases during digestion to about double its amount in the period of fasting. 3. After taking bitartrate of potash, the quantity of free carbonic acid in the urine is greatly increased—nearly threefold, whereas the quantity of the combined acid is not increased ; it even appears sometimes to be diminished ; the diminution is, however, most probably only relative, as the amount of urine passed is much greater. In fever, the urine contains an excess of both free and combined car- bonic acid. In a case of albuminuria, the urine contained about the normal amount of carbonic acid; while in a case of polyuria, three times as much free carbonic acid, and twice as much combined acid, was found than exists in normal urine of the same specific gravity. In 1000 c.c. (61.027 cuhic inches) of fluid drawn from the abdomen of a patient suffering from diseased liver, 116.7 c.c. of free gas were obtained, which on analysis yielded— c.c. Equal to in 100 parts. Carbonic acid . . 95.22 81.62 per cent. Nitrogen . . . 21.07 18.06 „ Oxygen . . .0.14 0.12 „ The exudation from a serous cavity is thus seen to contain the same gases, and the carbonic acid and nitrogen in nearly the same relative pro- portions, as normal urine. T. S. Warncke.—On the Amount of Urea excreted during Typhoid Fever. Biblioth. for Lager, xii, p. 330. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 149. Before beginning his researches on the urine in typhoid fever, Warncke first estimated the average amount of urea daily excreted by healthy persons of different ages. The results are given in the following table: Mixed Diet. Vegetable Diet. Grammes. " Grains. Grammes. Grams. Adult Male . . 33-7 S22-3S 2S-3 392->5 „ Female . . 26.8 4'S40 20.1 311.55 15 to 18 years, Boy . 19.8 3o(i-90 „ „ Girl . 18.0 279.00GENITOURINARY SYSTEM. 103 He then examined the amount of urea passed (in twenty-four hours) during typhoid fever in no less than fifty cases (thirty males, twenty females). The results are— _ .. Males. Females. Duration of Disease. Grammes. Grains. Grammes. Grains. One week . . . 43.2 669.60 34.0 527.00 Two weeks . Three weeks Four weeks. 39.9 618.45 30-2 468.10 30.9 478-95 24-i 373-55 23.2 359-6° 20-5 3I7-75 From this table it is seen, that during typhoid fever, especially in the early part of the disease, the urine contains a much greater quantity of urea than in health. The author looks upon this increase in the amount of urea as being in some measure a characteristic sign of the disease; for although in other febrile states the excretion of urea is augmented, it is never so much so as in the case of typhoid fever. Moreover, he observes, that the quantity of urea passed in twenty-four hours stands in direct re- lationship with the temperature of the body, the loss of flesh, and rapidity of the pulse. A great decrease (but never below the normal standard) in the quantity of urea excreted was observed to take place when haemorrhage from the bowels occurred during the course of the disease. In a day or two after the haemorrhage ceased, the amount of urea augmented. "Warncke remarks, that when the pulmonary organs become affected during the course of the disease, the amount of urea undergoes no appre- ciable change. Gastric has a very different effect from typhoid fever on the quantity of urea passed; notwithstanding their symptoms being so very much alike, the proportion of urea excreted is reversed, that is to say, in gastric fever the quantity falls below the normal standard. The following table shows this: Males. Females. Grammes. Grains. Grammes. Grains. One week . . . 22.1 342.55 18.0 279.0 Two weeks . . . 24.1 363-55 19-8 306.9 Three weeks . . 25.7 398.35 20.0 310.0 The author adds the interesting case of a young man, who, while suffering from gastric fever, passed a normal quantity of urea; whereas, when a short time afterwards he was attacked with typhoid fever, the amount of urea immediately increased. Warncke concludes, from the results of his_ experiments, that the quantity of urea might, in some cases, aid in deciding whether a doubtful case was gastric or typhoid fever. S. Ringer.—On the Relative Amount of Sugar and Urea in the Urine of Diabetes Mellitus. Trans. Med. Chir. Soc, i860, p. 323. Lancet, nth August. Ringer made his observations on two cases in University College Hospital, and the following are the conclusions at which he arrived: 1 st. That after the influence of food on the urine has entirely dis- appeared, a constant ratio is maintained between the sugar and urea. 2d. That after a purely non-amylaceous and non-saccharine meal, both the sugar and the urea are increased, but that during this increase the same ratio between them is observed. This ratio is 1 of urea to 2 2 of sugar.OBPOET o.\ Till: [NSTITUTE8 OF MEDICINE. 3d. That under both these circumstance*, the sugar could only he derived from the nitrogenous elements of the body, and, therefore, that some such ratio might, on a priori grounds, have been expected. W. Mi'tLLEH.— Researches on the Excretion of Urea after Operations. Froriep's Notiz., vol. iv, p. 288. Canst., vol. ii, p. 77. Miiller made the following observations:—(1.) immediately after a por- tion of the body has been removed by operation, the quantity of urea diminishes ; (2.) in a couple of days after a "capital operation," the urea increases in the urine; (3.) the increased amount of urea continues in direct proportion with the severity of the operation, the loss of flesh, and increase of bodily temperature ; (4.) after a time, as the patient recovers strength and flesh, the amount of urea falls to the normal standard, or even a little below it. Prof. Malmsten.— Crystals of Uric Acid in Pemp>higus Vesicles. Hygeia, vol. xx, p. 183. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 6. The fluid of the pemphigus pustule had an acid reaction, and under the microscope was found by Malmsten to contain distinct crystals of uric acid. This observation is interesting, as some say that the disease in question is connected with affections of the urinary organs. Dr. Hassall.— On the Frequent Occurrence of Phosphate of Lime in the Crystalline Form in the Human Urine. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 38, p. 281. Lancet, Feb. 25th. Hassall says that deposits of the phosphates of lime, in well-marked and highly characteristic forms, are of frequent occurrence in human urine, much more so, indeed, than the amorphous deposits of that salt, which are comparatively rare and exceptional. He thinks, therefore, that the statements hitherto advanced, regarding the absence of crystalline phosphates in human urine, are erroneous; and that the reason why the deposits of phosphate of lime have been overlooked is, because the de- posits of the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate are mixed, and confounded with them. The two kinds of crystals are, however, very different. He looks upon the occurrence of a deposit of phosphate of lime of deeper pathological interest than that of a deposit of phosphate of mag- nesia and ammonia. Dr. David Nelson.—On Albuminuria, and its Ferro-albuminous Treat- ment. Brit. Med. Journ., 1st Sept., p. 683, and Sept. 8th, p. 703. In treating the above subject, Nelson remarks that he does not intend to imply that the line of treatment proposed is curative or restorative of kid- neys that have become disorganized ; but simply to uphold and illustrate the doctrine, that albuminuria, to a very great extent, and accompanied by the sundry symptoms of dropsy, &c, may exist for a length of time, and yet be subdued by means of the remedies recommended. The author observes, in reference to the varied nature of the disease, that it consists essentially in a deposit of foreign matter of low organiza- tion within the proper tissues of the kidneys, which proper tissues become atrophied and ultimately absorbed. These deposits, having no power to assume the glandular functions, are not calculated to eliminate those excretions which ought thence to be drained, without, at the same time, showing a tendency to permit the most valuable reparative materialGENITO-URIXAKY SYSTEM. 105 in the blood (albumen) to escape along with them. At the same time he admits that the occasional manifestation of profuse albuminuria, in the course of other diseases tending to debilitate the nervous system and attenuate the blood, affords proof that it is possible for it to be sometimes simply a functional or accidental filtration of the nutrient fluids. The degenerations of structure ranked under the one name of Bright's disease may be of various kinds, according to the constitution of the patient and the nature of the inducing causes—debility of body proceeding from scrofulous or syphilitic taint, anaemia, drunkenness, or abuse of mercury; on the other hand, they may arise from local or accidental affections, such as the kidneys are subject to, in common with other parts of the frame. Thus, without any prior deterioration of the general mass of blood, there may be loss of function in the renal nerves, by which the natural reac- tions are so modified, and the affinities so altered, that, instead of glandu- lar or epithelial cells being formed and deposited as usual, there is a displacement of them by means of granular or tubercular matter or fat. Next, the evil may proceed from a pure anaemia, in which the over- fibrinated blood may block up, and ultimately obliterate, the extreme ves- sels, thereby cutting off the source of nutriment from the glandular tissue, and substituting an impoverished lymph, destined, perhaps, to undergo in the course of time still deeper degenerations. Again, protracted con- gestion and subacute inflammation may give rise to similar results. While there may be albuminuria without organic degeneration, there may also be organic degeneration without albuminuria. After detailing the symptoms of albuminuria, the author proceeds to state that, when the kidney is almost completely destroyed as a gland, life may be prolonged by furnishing the materials necessary to its operations ; and when the disease is still less advanced, there remains the probability of renovating, to a certain extent, the cellular and tubular structures that were on the point of undergoing the fatal degeneration which, when once thoroughly effected, can never be removed. The treatment which, under these circumstances, holds out the greatest chance of success is the administration of iron and albumen, in order to supply the loss of these materials which the system is, from day to day, and hour to hour, sustaining. Nelson relates several cases as illustrative of this line of treatment, to which he appends the three following deductions : 1. When the premonitory symptoms of debility and anaemia have not, as yet, produced actual renal disorganization, the supplies of the deficient elements afford a fair hope of averting the threatened malady of albuminuria. 2. If the renal disorganization be commencing, the improvement of the mass of the blood by such means may yet give the constitution the power of arresting the dire changes that may precede, accompany, or supervene upon the albuminuria. 3. Even if the disorganization be considerably advanced, such supplies may postpone the fatal issue for an indefinite period. Dr. Isaacs (Brooklyn City Hosp.).—Remarks upon Chylous or Mil/aj Urine; with an Account of Two Cases 0/ that Disease. Amer. Journ. Med. Sc., April i860, p. 472. In the above article it is stated—REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 106 1. That the disease may continue for many months, and even years, without much apparent injury to the general health. 2. That in such cases there* may he, and have been, intermissions of several days, and sometimes of months and years, during which the urine was apparently healthy. 3. That notwithstanding the daily loss of albumen, fibrin, red globules, and fatty matter, there may be very little or no emaciation. The patient may, on the contrary, abound in adipose tissue, and his muscles be appa- rently well nourished. 4. The fatty matter generally appears in the urine after eating, and but seldom before, or if so in very small quantity. But there are exceptions to this rule, as in the case recorded by Golding Bird. 5. That astringents, and especially gallic acid, with attention to diet, exercise, &c, seem to be the most efficacious remedies, but that the dis- ease is generally very little under the permanent control of remedies. 6. The kidney is in a very different condition from that of Bright's disease, inasmuch as renal epithelium, tube-casts, &c, are not generally found in the urine; neither do pathological changes, at all resembling those in Bright's disease, occur in the kidney secreting milky urine. On the contrary, in the only two cases of autopsy Dr. Isaacs has been able to find, viz., that recorded by Prout and one reported by himself, the kid- neys were perfectly healthy. 7. From the examination of the kidneys in Isaacs' case, it is positively demonstrated that there was, in that instance, no organic lesion of the organ; and from the symptoms and history of the other cases, the same conclusion may properly, he thinks, be deduced with regard to them. Moreover, the state of general good health, the intermittence of the symp- toms, the absence of loss of weight, and the effects of remedies, show that there was, in all probability, no organic lesion of any of the other organs, at least in the greater number of the cases. Dr. Milner Barky.—Urine suspected to be Chylous. Archiv. of Med., No- 5> P- 46. , Case.—W. A—, aged 10, a staid-looking, pale-complexioned boy fairly grown and nourished for his age (has always been delicate, his spirits out- running his strength), began to suffer from constant weakness and vomit- ing, and, at the same time, to pass milky urine. The urine resembles milk diluted with water, is acid, has no urinous smell, and possesses, in general, a specific gravity of 1018. After standing, a cream-like layer forms on the surface. Heat, or the addition of nitric acid, produces a scanty,, curdy precipitate. When shaken with ether, the urine becomes transpa- rent, and a thin coagulum forms by repose between the ether and urine. When examined with the microscope, numerous oil-globules are seen, like those present in milk. Dr. William Roberts.—On the Estimation 0/Sugar in Diabetic Urine by the Loss of Density after Fermentation. Trans. Manchester Phil. Soc. Med. Circ, Dec. 19th, p. 419. Roberts states that when diabetic urine is fermented with yeast, its specific gravity, which may have previously ranged from 1030 to 1050, falls to 1009 or 1002, or even below 1000; this result being mostly due to the destruction of the sugar it contained, but partly, also, to theGENITO-URINARY SYSTEM. 107 generation of alcohol, and its presence in the fermented product. As the diminution of density must be proportional to the quantity of sugar trans- formed by the ferment, the amount of loss supplies a means of calculating how much sugar any urine contains, always provided that the remaining ingredients of the urine are unchanged, or become changed in some uniform ratio. To ascertain the relation between the density lost by fermentation and the sugar destroyed, experiments were made on the urine of diabetic patienfs in the following manner:—ist. The amount of sugar present was ascertained by the volumetric method. 2. The density of the urine was taken. 3. Three or four ounces were fermented with a drachm or two of German yeast, and the density, after the fermentation process had ceased, a second time taken, and the difference calculated. The accuracy of this method was further tested by operating on diabetic urine diluted with known volumes of water, or non-saccharine urine, and solutions of loaf sugar in water, and in healthy urine. The following rule expresses the result of the experiments :—Each degree of " density lost" indicates one grain 0/sugar per fluid ounce of urine. J. LoWENTHAL.—Remarks on Fehling's Liquid. Erdm. Journ., vol. Ixxvii, p. 336. Canst, vol. i, p. 198. It has been frequently observed that Fehling's liquid, after being kept for some time, cannot be boiled along with any free organic acid without giving a precipitate of the sub-oxide of copper, and consequently the solution, unless freshly prepared, is not always to be depended upon in making a quantitative analysis of sugar. Lbvventhal proposes an improve- ment in the mode of preparing this standard solution. As the oxide of iron, in the presence of carbonate of soda, is reduced by grape sugar, it is easy to understand how the still more easily reducible oxide of copper will act under the same circumstances. Having found that if the caustic soda in Fehling's liquid be replaced by the carbonate of soda, the solution may be kept for more than a year without giving any deposit of sub-oxide of copper, either when boiled alone or with acetic acid, Lowenthal recommends the standard solution for the analysis of sugar to be made by mixing together— Tartaric acid .... 3 ounces = 6 loth. Carbonate of soda . . . 18 „ =36 „ Sulphate of copper . . . 1 ,, = 2 ,, Water 1.761 pints = 1 litre. R. Sciimeisser.—Researches on a Urine containing Tyrosin. Archiv d. Pharm., Oct., 1859, p. 11. Canst, vol. ii, p. 77. The urine in this case was obtained from a patient who died in a few days from acute atrophy of the liver. The urine was acid, yellow, clear, without sediment, and of 1020 specific gravity. Neither albumen, bile- pigment, biliary acids, nor sugar, could be detected in it. When a portion of the urine was treated with acetate of lead solution, and the excess of the salt of lead removed by sulphuretted hydrogen, and filtration, the clear liquid, on evaporation, yielded a large quantity of needle-shaped crystals. The crystals had neither taste nor smell, were insoluble in alcohol and ether, but soluble in warm water, in ammonia, fixed alkaline solutions, and in the mineral acids. In acetic acid, on the other hand,KKl'ORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 108 they were not readily dissolved. On allowing the ammoniacal solution to evaporate spontaneously, the crystals re-formed, and were even larger thun before. On being burned, they gave off a smell like that of burning hair, but left no residue. When heated along with nitric acid to dryness on platinum, and a drop of soda solution added (Scherer's method), the crystals gave an intense rusty yellow colour. From these characters it was con- cluded that they were tyrosin,—an opinion which the microscopical examination confirmed. Pn. Munk.—On Urine Pigment. Allg. mcd. Central-ztg., No. 26. Canst., vol. ii, p. 77. Munk's observations were made upon a man aged 39, while in hospital, under the care of Professor Traube. The patient stated that he had enjoyed good health until about two years before his admission, when he began to suffer from pains in the loins and trembling of the lower limbs. These increased, and he became so weak that he had to give up work. On examination, the urine was found (1) to be of a dark red colour; (2) to contain neither albumen nor bile-pigment; (3) to stain filter-paper red ; (4) to become darker when heated with nitric acid ; (5) to assume with sulphuric acid a fine deep violet colour ; (6) to become decolorized when hydrochloric acid and ziuc were added to it; the red colour could, however, be restored by adding nitric acid ; (7) and lastly, with ammonia, the urine became green. The quantity passed in twenty-four hours was much below the average ; it varied from about fourteen to twenty-three ounces. A very small amount of chlorides and urea was found in the urine. Munk separated the colouring matter from the urine in a pure state, and found that it was insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol, ether, and chloroform. It dissolved in soda solution with a pale red colour; in ammonia, with a green ; in hydrochloric acid, with a red ; in sulphuric acid, with a dark violet hue ; and in nitric acid, it became colourless. When burned, it left an ash containing iron. Prof. Beale.—Ui ine of Chorea. Archiv. of Med., No. 5, p. 48. The following specimens of urine were passed by a little girl, nine years of age, while suffering from chorea. The case was not a severe one. The child weighed forty-four pounds. The urine passed in twenty-four hours amounted to nineteen ounces, sp. gr. 1018, on the 8th October; twenty-four ounces, sp. gr. 1014, on the 9th October, reaction acid. Contained— 8tU October. In twenty-four hours. Water .... 958.70 Solids .... 41-30 343 grains Urea .... 24.00 200 „ Sulphates 2.096 17 .. Fixed salts . 12.008 100 fllh October. Water .... 964.000 Solids .... 35-Soo 37<> .. Urea .... 21.000 200 „ Sulphates 1.414 i.S >i Fixed salts . 11.014 116 „ The proportion of urea excreted in chorea is very great, as has been shown by Dr. Ii. Jones, Beale, and others.PAKASITES. 109 A".II essen.— On the Urinary Excretion in Epilepsy. Thesis, 18 59. Canst., Hensen sUjdied the amount of urine passed in twenty-four hours by epileptics, its specific gravity, and the quantity of chloride of sodium, urea, and phosphoric acid, it contained. He gives a full report of his researches in five cases, from which we draw the following facts :— (1) that epileptics make more urine during the night than during the day which is the reverse of the normal state ; (2) that the amount of chloride of sodium and phosphoric acid varies very much, and that the quantity or quality of the food taken does not satisfactorily account for these variations ; (3) the total amount of urea is more or less abnormally diminished, while the quantity passed at night is proportionally greater than in health; (4) the convulsions probably increase the quantity of urea, but the author's experiments do not allow him to offer any positive opinion on this point; (5) the crystals of uric acid in the urine are increased after the fits; (6) no sugar was found in the urine of any of the cases. PARASITES. Wm. Turner, M.B.—Observations on the Trichina Spiralis. Ed. Med. Journ., Sept., p. 209. From the published researches of others, the following conclusions have been drawn :—That the trichina, as met with in muscle, represents the immature condition of a nematoid worm ; that, shortly after it is taken into the intestine, it becomes fully developed, and produces thread-like worms, which, after a few days, bore their way through the intestinal walls, and ultimately reach the voluntary muscles, where they become cap- sulated. Turner gave to some animals portions of muscle containing specimens of trichina, and from his examination of the animals after death he was led to the following conclusions. (1) The trichinae may propagate in the intestine; and (2) while some of the young remain behind in the gut as thread-like worms, others emigrate from the intestine, work their way into the muscles, and there become encysted. (3) The cysts themselves exhibit, at first, the characters of having been recently formed; they are transparent, have no deposit of calcareous particles, either in their walls or cavities, with an absence of fatty degeneration in the surrounding muscular fibres and of the deposition of fat-cells in their vicinity. In no case was Turner able to find indications of the passage of the worm through the intestinal wall, although he examined the intestine microscopically at many places. Virchow has met with trichinae in the mesenteric glands, and Herbst has seen them in the mesentery of an owl. The worms are most numerous, as first pointed out by Owen, in the superficial muscles of the body, and in the surface of the muscle, which shows that they have a tendency to work their way towards the exterior. When the worms have reached the muscles and become encysted, they remain dormant, many of them undergoing calcareous degeneration. Turner has compiled from various medical journals the following table of recorded cases, and appended to it six cases which came under his own observation:ItEPOItT ON THE INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. 110 Authority. Owen Wood Farre Curling .... ii • • • ♦ Gairdner .... Millar Luschka .... llainey and Bristowe llenle Zenker .... Turner .... Sex. M. F. M. M. M.' M. M. M. F. F. M. M. F. M. F. M. F. F. F. Age. 5° Aged. 22 Middle age 58 60 60 49 80 S6 60 20 60 79 66 49 60 37 DiBease. Tubercles and Bright's disease. Sloughing ulcer, and diarrhoea. Not stated. Acute rheumatism. Tubercles. Fractured bkull. Fractured ribs. Purulent infection of blood. Tumour of tongue, probably cancerous. Old syphilitic disease. Pulmonary and cardiac disease. Not stated. Pyrexia, tympanitis, abdominal and muscular pains. Paralysis following apoplexy. Old age and debility. Cancer of pylorus. Unknown. Asthma and general debility. Meningitis. In Zenker's case, the emigration of the worms from the intestine to the muscles, and their presence in the latter, produced well-marked symptoms. In Curling's two cases, on the other hand, the encysted worms did not apparently in any way impede the active exercise of the muscles, or impair the bodily health of the individual. With regard to the comparative frequency of the trichina in man, Turner thinks that it occurs much oftener than is supposed, for between one and two per cent, of the dead bodies received into the dissecting rooms of the University of Edinburgh during the last five years have been so affected. Prof. Welcker (Halle).—On Sarcina, especially on its Occurrence in Human Urine. Henle and Pfeuf.'s Zeitschr., vol. v, p. 199. Several cases have been reported in which sarcina has been found in the urine. The one related by Welcker is specially interesting, in conse- quence of the patient being a member of the medical profession, and his symptoms having been carefully watched. The gentleman, set. 47, had been ailing for some time, lost strength, and become emaciated. He suffered much from nervous depression, in consequence of his imagining that he laboured under renal disease. Welcker first examined the urine in July, 1857 ; it was strongly acid, and on standing became clouded. On microscopical examination the cloudi- ness was found to be partly due to the presence of sarcina. On examining the urine even immediately after it was passed, sarcina, crystals of oxalate of lime, a few pus- or mucus-corpuscles, and epithelium-cells, were detected in it. The majority of the sarcina-masses were composed of eight, or of sixty-four cells. Welcker states that he has on several occasions examined sarcina from the stomach, and it appears to him that the masses from that organ are larger than those from the urinary bladder. In tlic following table he gives the average size of those from the stomach and those from the urine :Ill GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. Urine. Stomach. Primitive cell 0.0012 m.m. 0.0025 m-m- Cube of 2 cells to the side . 0.0023 » 0.0050 „ "I Most common form Cube of 4 cells to the side .0.0048 „ 0.0100 „ J in urine. Cube of 8 cells to the side . None. 0.0200 „ \ Most common form Cube of 16 cells to the side . None. 0.0400 „ J in the stomach. The author thinks that the sarcina of urine is a variety, if not a distinct species. He made several attempts to propagate the parasite by injecting some of the urine containing it into the bladder of a dog and of a rabbit, but with negative results. Welcker also introduced some of the urine into the stomach of a rabbit, but without any better success, for on killing the animal twelve days afterwards, not a trace of sarcina was detected. The dog was treated much in the same way, and although kept alive for a much longer period—nearly four months—a total absence of the parasite was found. Dr. T. Spencer Cobbold.—Two Memoirs on Entozoa. Trans. Linn. Soc, vol. xxii. The first paper contains notices and descriptions of several new helminths, with microscopical observations, including an account of two experiments in regard to the breeding of Tcenia serrata, and T. cucumerina. The second paper gives an account of several new entozoa, the most interesting form being that of a non-hermaphroditic trematode (Bilharzia magna, Cobbold) from an African monkey (Cercopithecus fuliginosus) ; this worm, both in form and in the possession of a gynsecophoric canal in the male, very closely resembles the Distoma haematobium of Bilharz found in man. Cobbold.—Synopsis of the Distomidce. Proc. Linn. Soc, vol. v, No. 17, Zool. Div., pp. 1—56. This paper contains a systematic arrangement of all the known forms of Ihe genus Distoma and its allies, to the number of several hundred species. Edwin Canton.—An Account of some Parasitic Ova found attached to the Conjunctiva of the Turtle's Eyes. Dub. Quart. Rev., Nov., i860, p. 327. GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. Ch. Robin.—Memoir on the Minute Structure of the Umbilical Vesicle of Mammalia. Compt. Rend., October, i860, p. 624. Serres.—On the Development of the first Rudiments of the Embryo Primitive Formation of the Cerebrospinal Axis of the Nervous Sys- tem—Development of the Spinal Cord and Vertebral Canal. Compt. Rend., i860, October, p. 581. See also second note at p. 476, and Gaz. M6d. de Paris, 27th October, p. 663, and 3d November, p. 680. Mantegazza.—On the Vitality of the Spermatozoa of the Frog, and ihe Transplantation of the Testicles of one Animal into Another. Compt. Rend., August, i860, p. 254. Dr. Joly.—New Experiments regarding the Action of Madder on the Egg of the Hen and on the Teeth of Mammalia. Archiv. Gen de M6d., September, i860, p. 376.112 RKPORT ON T1IK INSTl'l LTKS or MEDICINE. Milne Edwards. — Remarks on the Value of the Facta which are con- sidered by some Naturalists as sufficient to prove the Existence of Spontaneous Generation in Animals. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 23. L. PASTKUR.—Experiments on the so-called Spontaneous Generation. Compt. Rend., 6th February, i860, p. ,30,3. Flourens.—On the Coloration of the Bones of the Foetus by the Action of Madder, mixed with the Food of the Mother. Compt. Rend., p. 1010, 4U1 June, i860. Flourens laid before the Academy a fcetus, the bones and teeth of which were of a beautiful red colour. The mother (a pig) had madder added to her food during the last forty-five days of gestation. Neither the perios- teum, the cartilages, the tendons, the muscles, nor indeed any other part of the body, were at all coloured. The author remarked that the fact was exceedingly curious, seeiug that the mother communicates only indirectly by means of her blood with the foetus. The question as to whether or not there is a direct communication between the foetal and maternal blood, Flourens thinks is now answered in the affirmative by the specimens alluded to. Coste.—Observations relative to Hereditary Transmission. Compt. Rend., p. 1011, 4th June, i860. After Flourens had made the above remarks, Coste begged leave to direct the attention of the Academy to the interesting fact that the mother could not only transmit certain colours to the already formed fcetus, but even to the egg itself, and to the germ before it had undergone any of the transformations which it is necessary for it to pass through in order to develop the first lineaments of the embryo. The fact to which he alluded is, that in certain members of the salmon tribe, the females of which have the flesh deeply coloured, the eggs themselves are impregnated with the maternal colouring matter. If, for example, the females live under certain conditions, which cause their flesh to lose its rosy tint, the ova are also colourless, and the flesh of the fish developed from them is devoid of colouring matter. On placing these fish, however, in a favorable medium, their flesh acquires the natural tint of the healthy parent. Coste thinks, if colouring matters can be thus transmitted to the ova, we can readily understand how cancer, tubercle, and other such diseases, can be handed down from parent to offspring. At the same time it points out the still more important fact, that hereditary transmissions are not irreparable if we can but place the subjects of them under conditions contrary to those in which the taint was acquired. Joly and Musset.—New Experiments on Heterogeneity. Compt. Rend., p. 934, 21st May, i860. On a previous occasion,1 the authors called attention to the fact that snow, in falling to the earth, brings with it a small number of germs, but whether or not these germs are in time transformed into living organisms they did not state. At present they point out how organic matter, such as milk, urine, yeast, flesh, &c, when left to itself during a certain length of time, quickly becomes inhabited by low forms of life, which gradually disappear and are succeeded by higher organisms. 1 " Microscopical Studies on the Air," 1 Compt. Rend.,' 26th March, i860, p. 648.GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. 113 F. PoucnET.— Genesis of the Proto-organisins found in Calcined Air, and in Putrescible Substances that have been heated to i$o°. Compt. Rend., p. 1014, 4th June, i860. Pouchet cites several experiments which he performed with the view of settling the question of spontaneous generation, and declares that he considers the results to he perfectly conclusive of the spontaneous origin of certain species of animal organisms. L. Pasteur.—On the Origin of Ferments. New Experiments on the so- called Spontaneous Generation. Compt. Rend., p. 849, 7th May, i860. Among others, Pasteur cites the following experiment. Upwards of three ounces of fresh urine were introduced into a bottle capable of holding about eight ounces ; it was then boiled for two or three minutes, and put aside to cool; but in such a way that, while cooling, the air, before entering the bottle, had to pass through a red-hot tube of platinum. AVhen the urine had become cold, the neck of the bottle was hermetically sealed, and the bottle, with contents, placed aside on a stove kept at a temperature of about 30° C. After a month or six weeks the urine was found perfectly unchanged in appearance. The bottle was now opened, and a little asbestos, containing the dust of the air, allowed to fall into it; the neck was again closed as before, and the bottle returned to the stove. In thirty-six hours the urine contained animalcules. On the following day crystals of triple phosphates made their appearance, the urine became ammoniacal, aud the urea disappeared. Here, Pasteur says, the ferment was an organized ferment, and, moreover, it came from the dust of the air. He relates several other experiments equally conclusive. See also the two following papers. L. Pasteur.—Neto Experiments relative to the so-called Spontaneous Generation. Compt. Rend., September, i860, p. 348. L. Pa steur.—Continuation of the Preceding Communication relative to the so-called Spontaneous Generation. Compt. Rend., November, i860, p. 675. J. G. Johnson (Long Island).—Supernumerary Fingers Hereditary for Five Generations. Amer. Med. Times, Oct. 20, i860, p. 275. The case examined by Mr. Johnson was the fourth child of its parents; all the other children have supernumerary fingers except the second. The mother of the children has one supernumerary finger on her right hand. The mother's mother has two supernumerary fingers, and the great grand- mother had also two supernumerary fingers. The grandmother's brother, as well as one of his nephews, has the same deformity. H. Momberger.—Researches on the Nipple, and on the Areolae round the Nipples. Thesis, Giessen, i860. R. E. Fitzgibbon.—Note of a Case in which a Man had Four Nipples. Dub. Quart., vol. xxix, p. 109. D. M'C, set. 24, a native of Lucca, in Jamaica, copper colour, enlisted in the British Zouaves in 1859, but was rejected. He has two supplementary nipples—one on each breast, about" an inch below the regular nipples ; there are also two pigmentary deposits, one on each breast, higher up. When a boy, the supplementary nipples were the 8REPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 111. largest) nnd were a great source of annoyance to him, as, when he went to hathe, the other children used to get about him, and keep pulling at " these things;" the pigmentary deposits were also much larger when he was younger than they arc now. There is no unusual enlargement of the mammary organ. VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY. E. J. Lowe.—On the Temperature of the Flowers and Leaves of Plants. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, p. 534. Lowe found that great differences occur from time to time in the tem- perature of plants, and much depends on the meteorology of the day, the differences being usually greater with a cloudless sky than with one loaded with cloud. The time of the day seems also to operate on some plants to a great degree; as an instance, the Erica herbacea, which between one nnd two p.m. had shown a warmth of <J° above that of the grass, by three o'clock was only i° warmer, and by four o'clock was colder than the grass. In the majority of cases, grass is colder than flowers. P. Duciiartre.—Is Water directly absorbed by the External Organs of Plants? Experimental Researches. Compt. Rend., 13th February, i860, p. 359. Contrary to the usually received opinions, Duchartre tells us that neither the stem3 nor the leaves of plants, young or old, absorb any of the rain that falls upon them. Lawes, Gilbert, and Pugh.—On the Sources of the Nitrogen of Vege- tation ; with special reference to the question whether Plants as- similate free or uncombined Nitrogen. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, P- 544- . . ' From a very extended series of experiments the authors have arrived at the following conclusions: 1. The yield of nitrogen in vegetation on a given area, within a given time, especially in the case of leguminous crops, is not satisfactorily ex- plained by reference to the hitherto quantitatively determined supplies of combined nitrogen. 2. In experiments with graminaceous plants, there is no evidence of an assimilation of free nitrogen ; and in those with leguminous plauts, the results, as far as they go, in like manner fail to indicate any such powers of assimilation. Dr. C. A. Cameron.—On the Sources of the Nitrogen of Plants. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., 1st September, p. 266. Cameron satisfied himself by experiment, that neither the free nitrogen of the atmosphere nor the combined nitrogen of humus can be assimilated by plants, and that the nutriment of plants can only be supplied by substances of a purely inorganic nature, under which designation he, however, includes ammonia and urea. Urea and the cyanurates of potash and soda are among the substances from which plants receive their ni- trogen. To these he adds nitrate of potash and ferrocyanide of po- tassium.VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY. 115 E. FltEMY. — On the Com])osition and Mode of Production of Gum in the Vegetable Organism. Compt. Rend., iCth January, i860, p. 124. The following is a resume of the new facts Fremy ascertained : 1. Gum arabic is not a neutral immediate principle; it ought to be re- garded as a compound substance resulting from the combination of a feeble acid with lime. The acid Fremy names gummic acid : it is soluble in water. 2. This acid is capable of undergoing an isomeric modification by the action of heat, or under the influence of concentrated sulphuric acid. The author calls it metagummic acid. It is insoluble. 3. Bases, chiefly lime, combine with the acid and form the insoluble gummate of lime, which possesses all the chemical characters of gum arabic. 4. The soluble compound of lime, which we call common gum, can also undergo, as Gelis pointed out, under the influence of heat, an iso- meric modification—the metagummate of lime. This insoluble substance re-acquires its solubility under the influence of vegetation or of boiling water. It forms the gelatinous part of certain gums, such as that of the cherry-tree. 5. There exist in the vegetable kingdom several insoluble gelatinous bodies, which by their transformations produce different kinds of gum. Payen.—Starch and Celhdose : Observations on the remarkable Analogy, and different Characters of these tivo immediate Principles. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 67. Payen.—Observations on Vegetable Tissue; new Character by which Starch can be distinguished from Celhdose. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 319. According to Payen, the ammoniacal oxide of nickel is a test by which cellulose can be readily distinguished from starch ; for while this test does not exert any visible influence upon cellulose, it causes starch to swell up, and gradually undergo the same changes as in the presence of an ammo- niacal solution of the oxide of copper. E. Fremy.—Researches on the Green Colouring Matter of Leaves. Compt. Rend., 27th February, i860, p. 405. Some of the conclusions at which Fremy has arrived are :—1. The green colouring-matter of leaves may give origin to a blue and to a yellow pigment. 2. These colouring matters combine with silica, and form in- soluble compounds. 3. The yellow is a more stable colouring-matter than the blue. A. Froehde.—Contribution to our Knowledge of Albuminous Substances. Erdm. Journ., vol. Ixxvii, part 5, p. 290. Canst., vol. i, p. 205. The researches of Froehde were made upon legumin obtained from lentil-meal, by stirring it in tepid water for a considerable time, adding a few drops of ammonia, and then filtering it through cloth. The legumin was separated from this solution, in the form of a fine white pre- cipitate, by means of dilute acetic acid. The precipitate was purified by washing it with hot water, with alcohol, and lastly with ether, in order to free it from fat. The ether and alcohol were, in their turn, removed, by redissolving the substance in water, and reprecipitating it with dilute sulphuric acid. Legumin, so prepared, when perfectly dry, is brittle110 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. and of a yellowish-brown colour. Ten pounds of lentil-meal yielded two pounds of legumin. The legumin, when mixed with chromnte of potash and sulphuric acid, and distilled, yielded hydrocyanic, formic, acetic, propionic, butyric, valerianic, caproic, and benzoic acids, &c. SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. E. Baudrimont.—Chemical Composition of Hair. Journ. des Connaiss. Med., No. 24, p. 328. A. BeghAMP.—Researches on the Products obtained from the Oxidation of Albuminous Substances with the Permanganate of Potash. Annal. de Chem. et de Phys., vol. lvii, p. 291. F. Pouchet.—Researches on the Substances introduced by the Air into the Respiratory Qryans of Animals. Compt. Rend., p. 1121, 18th June, i860. GlBB.—On the Laryngoscope: its Value in Healthy and Diseased Conditions of the Throat and Windpipe. Lancet, 29th September, p. 307. (This article consists of a description of Czermak's experiments.) Fonssagrives.—On the Artificial Illumination of the Cavities of the Body by means of Luminous Tubes. Compt. Rend., 23d January, i860, p. 185. For the examination of the fauces, of the uterus, of the nasal cavity, &c, Fonssagrives proposes the employment of the electric light in the empty tubes of Geissler. The advantages of this light consists in its brightness, and more especially its not giving off any heat. Dr. John Ogle.—On the Use of the Ophthalmoscope as a Help to the Diagnosis in Diseases of the Nervous System. Med. Times and Gaz., 9th June, p. 572. Ogle remarks that the condition of the deeply seated and delicate vessels of the eye-ball may be, to a certain extent, a criterion of the state of the cerebral vessels ; and that, therefore, the ophthalmoscope might prove of service in the diagnosis of brain disease. He cites several cases in which he found it useful; and concludes by saying, that in some cases its applica- tion might be instrumental in diagnosing between giddiness and other symptoms proceeding from actual organic change and the same symp- toms arising from disturbance in other distant parts, as in the digestive organs, and, therefore, strictly sympathetic in character. Again, it may prove useful when it is doubtful whether such and such symptoms are owing to repletion or to defective and even sinking powers, just as the state of the fontanelles is looked upon as being a useful guide in such doubtful instances. Bkown-Skquard.—Hereditary Transmission of an Epileptiform Affection accidentally produced. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 38, p. 297. For several years, Brown-Scquard has frequently observed that the young of a number of epileptic guinea-pigs, which he kept in his la- boratory, were at times attacked with epileptiform convulsions. For many months he had made observations on this subject, and had ascer- tained that six young guinea-pigs, which had frequent attacks of con-117 SUBJECTS OV GENEKAL INTEltEST. vulsious, were the offspring of one male and two females rendered epileptic in consequence of an injury to the spinal cord. Dr. Martyn (Bristol).—On Connective Tissue. Arcliiv. of Med., No. vi, p. 99. Martyn thinks it is not too much to say that "cellular pathology, with all' its ramifications, is based on and rooted in the doctrine of con- nective substance;" for it is in it and the allied tissues that, according to Virchow's school, morbid processes begin. Tendon, which may be regarded as a good example of dense connective tissue, consists of—1, cells ; 2, fibres; and 3, a substance which Martyn calls " extracellular." As the cells are more difficult to understand as their age advances, our author has given a figure of them (fig. 2, Plate ix) from an infant at birth. They are then, he says, fusiform, forked, or caudate, including a long, dark-bordered nucleus, and are prolonged into fibres, which, when traced upwards or downwards, lead to other cells, also including nuclei. These fusiform cells are arranged at pretty regular intervals throughout the tissue, and have a great tendency to sit closely to the large nuclei, and thus their preseuce is often marked only by the existence of a sort of triangular gap, above and below the nucleus. In the adult tendon some of the cells have become still more closely attached to their nuclei, and their prolongations are so very fine as to escape notice readily, while in others a metamorphosis into fibres has taken place. Secondly, there are fibres in part proceeding from, and in part meandering between, the cells. These fibres are elastic tissue in a very rudimentary condition. The finely drawn-out cell, already referred to, may in some cases be long enough to extend as a fibre across the entire field of the microscope. When studying the adult tendon, Martyn proceeds as follows:—A very thin section of half-dried adult tendon, after being freed from fat, by dipping it several times into ether, and instantly pressing it between folds of blotting-paper, is placed with a drop of water, containing glycerin, under a power of 300 diams. When the section has expanded to its original width, a drop of dilute nitric acid is allowed to come in contact with it; the whole then becomes pale, and the cells are distinctly seen to have fine fibres attached to their points. Here and there a nucleus may be observed to shrivel and curl up, and become apparently, or even really, detached from its processes. The fibres are very fine, often requiring the smallest amount of light to be seen ; and it is not easy to measure their thickness, some being less than ^g-Jwyth of an inch. Acetic acid renders them invisible, leaving the elastic fibres unaffected, so that the cells seem to be merely nuclei, and the fibres to have no relation to them ; the truth being that the coarse fibres in adult tendon are never attached to cells retaining their typical form, while the true fine fibres which are attached to such cells have disappeared. Thirdly, there is between the cells and fibres a gray, longitudinally striated mass, which may be torn into smaller and smaller bundles, but not into ultimate fibrils. This is what our author terms " extracellular" substance. In transverse sections all the three elements are distinct; but another appearance is now added, to which great importance has been attached. Each cell has several processes radiating from it, and, especially in youngREPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 118 specimens, there is a clear anastomosis between the cavities in the radii of adjacent stars. Virehow observed that these stellate bodies bear a striking resemblance to the lacunae and canidiculi of bone, and concluded that they were similarly arranged for what he called an " intermediate- juice-channel system." Our author fully details the various views winch have lately been advanced upon this point, and adds some important remarks of his own ; but as they extend over ten pages or more, and require the use of the figures to be properly understood, we must beg to refer our readers, who desire further information, to the original. Prof. C. O. Weber.—On the History of the Development of Pus. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xv, p. 465. That the corpuscles of connective tissue play an important, if not even the most important, part in the development of pii3, is a theory which is rapidly gaining ground among German physiologists. In the present communication Weber traces the formation of the pus-corpuscle in periosteum, in muscle, in nerve, &c. With regard to its origin in the first-named tissue, he states, that if a portion of periosteum be removed from the neighbourhood of a suppurating fracture, or a bone affected with caries, the connective-tissue corpuscles will he found very much enlarged, and their nuclei increasing in number by subdivision. The fine anastomosing branches proceeding from the cells also become enlarged aud filled with nuclei and fat-granules. Nearer to the seat of suppuration the same thing is observed in a more advanced stage ; the contents of the connective-tissue corpuscles being seen to be now filled with true pus-cells, and even their fine tubes in the same condition. In muscle the develop- ment of pus proceeds in precisely the same manner, the so-called muscle- corpuscles being the cradle out of which the pus-cells spring. In nerve there is nothing different observed, except that it is in the corpuscles of the neurilemma that the development of the pus-cells begins. As the suppuration proceeds onwards, the nerve-tubes themselves become affected, fat-granules appear in their interior, and they gradually de- generate. Bodeckkr.—A new Contribution to our Knowledge of Pits, and on the different Compositions of the Contents of tivo Ovarian Cysts. Henle u. Pfeuf. Zeits., vol. vii, pp. 145, 149. Canst., vol. ii, p. 84. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 147. The pus was obtained from an abscess, from an otherwise healthy man ; it had a pale-yellow colour, no smell, slightly alkaline reaction, and a sp. gr. of 1022. It contained leucin, but neither sugar nor urea, and on analysis yielded the following result: Water . . . .88.76 per cent. Solids .... 11-24 11 Organic matter . . . lo-n.i >■ Inorganic matter. . . t-i-5 » Albumen . • • 4-i?8 Mucus, Pus-corpuscles, Gliit'm, &c. . Cholestcarin and Neutral Fat . 1.09 Chloride of Sodium . . 0.59 Other Alkaline Salts . . 0.32 Earthy Phosphates and Iron 0.21SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 119 Bodecker also examined the fluid of two ovarian cysts from the same woman. One of the cysts was of old standing, the other of very recent formation. • 1. Fluid from the old cyst. It was of a clear yellow colour, slightly alkaline reaction, not glutinous, of a sp. gr. of 1009, and contained 5.77 per cent, of solid matter, which consisted chiefly of alhumen and some chloride of sodium. Mucus was only present in the very smallest quan- tity. Glutin, or a somewhat analogous suhstance, leucin, and ammonia, were found ; but neither urea, sugar, nor tyrosin could be detected. 2. Fluid from the recently formed cyst. It was of a reddish-brown colour, thick, and glutinous, had an alkaline reaction, and a sp. gr. of It contained nearly 21 per cent, of solid matter, no sugar but a little urea, ammonia, and. leucin (less than in the 1049. or tyrosin, old cyst). F. Hoppe. — On the Chemical Composition of the Cerebrospinal Fluid. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xvi, p. 391. Canst., vol. ii, p. 84. Hoppe analysed the fluid obtained (by puncture) from two cases of spina bifida and three cases of hydrocephalus. The first case of spina bifida was punctured four times, and in every 1000 parts of fluid were— I. 11. IV. Albumen Water-extractive . . Alcohol-extractive . . Soluble Salts . . . . Insoluble Sails . . . 1.62 0.70 } 957 0.25 2.64 o-35 2.48 7-52 0.15 2.46 0.42 2.23 8.21 0.28 Solids 12.51 987.47 13.12 986.88 13.28 986.72 The fluid had a strong alkaline reaction, became slightly turbid when heated, but did not coagulate until after acetic acid was added. Nos. 1 and 2, when tested for sugar, reduced the oxide of copper; but No. 4 did not; so it was concluded that only the former contained sugar. The second case of spina bifida was twice punctured, and on both occasions yielded an alkaline fluid, which gave offcarbonic acid gas on the addition of acetic acid. Only the fluid obtained the second time reduced the oxide of copper. The analysis gave in 1000 c.c. (= 1.761 pints) : I. II. Grammes. Grains. Grammes. Grains. 3-875 o-55 8.525 Extractive matter . . 2.30 35-650 2.00 31.000 7.67 118.885 7.20 111.600 Insoluble Salts . . . o-45 6-97S o-45 6-975 165-385 10.20 158.10120 ltEl'OHT ON THE INSTITUTES Oi' MEDICINE. Fluids Nos. 2 and 4 from the first case, nnd No. 1 from the second case, were tested for potash, and only traces were detected. The fluids obtained from the first and second cases of hydrocephalus contained (as also did the others) no indican. Sugar was not detected in the first ; hut in the second it appeared to be in considerable quantity— nearly 1 gramme (= ingrains) in 1000 c.c. (= 1.761 pints). The fluid obtained from the second case of hydrocephalus, when punctured the third time, had a sp. gr. of 1005, coagulated on being heated ; it contained no blood-corpuscles, had an alkaline reaction, and was devoid of sugar. On analysis by the polariscope, it yielded in 1000 c.c. (= 1*761 pints)— Grammes. '. Grains. Albumen . , . 11.79 182.745 Alcohol-extractive . . 0.84 13.020 Water-extractive . . 0.48 7-440 Soluble Salts . . 7.54 116.870 Insoluble Salts . . 0.35 5425 Solids . . . 20.99 32S-345 The fluid taken from this case after death was of a greenish-yellow colour, and floating in it were a considerable number of pus-cells. It was coagulated by heat and by acetic acid, and contained therefore not only meta-albumen, but also ordinary albumen. No sugar was detected in it. The pure cerebro-spinal fluid, on the other hand, contained meta-albumen, but no ordinary albumen. Hoppe looks upon the coagulability of the cerebro-spinal fluid by heat, and therefore the presence of ordinary albumen in it, as a characteristic sign of inflammatory action. lie gives the subjoined analysis of some pure cerebro-spinal fluid (with the ex- ception of a few blood-corpuscles) taken from a girl aged five months. It contained no sugar, and did not become turbid on being heated : 1000 c.c. 1701 pints. Grammes. Grains. Albumen . . .0.70 10.850 Extractive matter . . 1.57 24.335 Soluble Salts . . . 7.67 118.885 Insoluble Salts . . 0.53 8.215 Solids . . • 10.47 162.285 C. Bodecker.. — On the Quantitative Analysis of Albumen in Solutions by Weighing, and by the Volumetric Method. Henle and Pfeufer, vol. v, parts 2 and 3. Canst., vol. i, p. 205. The old method of estimating the quantity of albumen in a liquid by coagulating, drying;, and weighing, Bodecker says, is not only fatiguing, but also occasionally inexact; he proposes, therefore, to calculate the quantity of albumen by means of a standard solution of ferrocyanide of potassium. The standard solution is prepared by dissolving 1..309 grammes (about 21 grains) of ferrocyanide of potassium in 1000 c.c. (1.761 pints) of distilled water; each c.c. of this liquid represents one milligramme of albumen. The solution of albumen about to be analysed, if concentrated, is to be first diluted with water, neutralised with acetic acid, nnd well mixed. And in those cases where the albumen is contained within a membrane, as in the egg, for example, it ought to beSUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 121 .thoroughly beat up, diluted with five volumes of water, four of acetic acid, and filtered. In order to ascertain if the solution of albumen is sufficiently diluted, Bodecker mixes a small quantity with half its volume of the standard solution, filters, and divides it into two portions; one of which he tests with albumen, the other with ferrocyanide of potassium. If the first becomes muddy or yields a precipitate, while the latter remains clear, the solution is sufficiently diluted. From a number of analyses which the author made of the albumen in the fluid of hydrocele, of the egg, in urine, &c, he has been led to believe that the method by volume is much more rapid, and as trustworthy as the old method by weighing. Dr. F. Harris.—On the Nature of the Substance found in the Amyloid Degeneration of various Organs of the Human Body. A Thesis for a Medical Act in the University of Cambridge. Westminster, i860, pp. 23, with a plate. In order to show that any substance found in the animal kingdom is strictly analogous to the amylaceous group in the vegetable kingdom, Harris says, it is necessary not only to show that it forms with iodine colours more or less resembling those produced by starch, but also that it is a non-nitrogenous substance ; nor are these characters even sufficient, as cholestearin (a non-nitrogenous body) gives with iodine and sulphuric acid a blue colour, much resembling that which cellulose shows under the same circumstances; so that, in order to prove the amylaceous nature of any animal substance, it is also necessary that it should, in addition to those properties, be convertible into sugar. From his observations, he has been led to make the following statement:—The pale-blue colour given with iodine by the amylaceous bodies found in the brain differs con- siderably from the colour given by starch. And although sometimes the phenomena the cerebral amylaceous corpuscles exhibit with polarized light much resemble those exhibited by starch, yet, until the former bodies have been shown to be convertible into sugar, Harris thinks we must answer this question in the negative. The next question discussed is— Is the substance found in the amyloid degenerations of the different organs of the body cellulose? It differs, the author says, from cellulose in producing a red-brown colour with iodine alone, and in its slight resistance to the action of alkalies. All attempts, too, to convert it into sugar have, up to the present time, been unsuccessful. So we are justified in concluding that the reactions of these amyloid substances with iodine and sulphuric acid indicate their analogy, not their perfect identity, with the substances of the amylaceous group. Eklexmeyer and Sciioffer.—On the Products of Decomposition of Albuminous Substances. Verh. d. natur.-med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, ii, p. 9, i860. Erlenmeyer and Schoffer found—(a) in ligamentum nuchse, leucin and tyrosin ; (i) in blood-fibrin, 14 per cent, of leucin and 2 per cent, of tyrosin ; (c) in muscle-fibrin, 18 per cent, leucin and 1 percent, tyrosin ; (d) in the white of hen's egg, jo per cent, leucin and about 1 per cent.llKPOHT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. tyrosin ; (c) in horn, 10 percent. Icucin and 3.6 per cent, tyrosin. Our; authors recommend, as a good test for tyrosin, the nitrate of mercury; it gives, they say, a red colour with an aqueous solution of pure tyrosin, and, after hoiling, a red crystalline precipitate. Nitrate of the protoxide of mercury, on the other hand, gives only after prolonged boiling a: feeble red colour with the same solution ; and this probably arises from some of the protoxide becoming cbanged to oxide of mercury during the process of boiling. Cll. Rouget.—On the Amyloid Substances in the Tissues of Animals, especially of the Articulata (chitin). Comp. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 792. On a previous occasion, Rouget tried to establish the fact, that the amyloid substance discovered in the placenta of the mammalia is not the product of a particular organ, or confined to any one class of cells. The author has found it, he says, in the epithelium of the skin, of the mouth, of the stomach, and of the intestines ; and that it corresponds exactly with glucogene obtained from the liver, and with the amorphous amylaceous matter found in vegetable cells. In the present communication are indi- cated some further points of analogy existing between chitin and cellu- lose. If, for example, fresh chitin be boiled during half an hour with five times its weight of caustic potash in a small quantity of water, a quantity of ammoniacal vapours are given off, it loses about half its weight, and changes its appearance without, however, losing its histological characters. In this state, tincture of iodine, either alone or combined with acetic acid, produces with it a violet, while iodized chloride of zinc gives to it a pure blue colour. It is soluble in acetic and tartaric acids, and in water acidulated with f$$th of nitric or bydrochloric acid, especially if a gentle heat be applied. It is precipitated from its solution by alcohol and by alkalies in the form of a semi-transparent jelly, which, when dried, is a yellowish substance like gum or dextrin. Dissolved in concentrated sulphuric acid, chitin yields a brown liquid ; if, however, fifteen or twenty times its volume of water be immediately added, it is thrown down as a white precipitate. Should the water not be added for twelve or twenty-four hours, part of the chitin will become changed into sugar, as can easily be shown by neutralising the solution with potash, aud boiling it with sulphate of copper. C. Schmidt (Dorpat).—On the so-called "Animal Starch" (Substance of the Amxjlaceous Corpuscles). Liebig's Annal., vol. cx, p. 250. Canst., vol. i, p. 220. Schmidt considers that the mere fact of an animal substance yielding a blue colour with iodine, or with iodine and sulphuric acid, is not of itself sufiicient proof that the substance under examination belongs to the amyloid group. He examined the amylaceous corpuscles in as pure a condition as it is possible to obtain them from the choroid plexus of the human brain, and attempted by different means to transform them into sugar, but without success. The author concludes, from the results obtained from his experiments, that the so-called "animal amyloid" does1£8 SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. not belong to the non-nitrogenous nniylnceous group, but is, on the con- trary, a nitrogenous nlbuminoid substance. A. Sanson'.—On the Existence of G/ycogene in the Organs of the Herbivora, and on the Influence of Alimentation on the Production of this Substance. Journ. de la Phys., vol. ii, 1859, p. 104. Canst., i, p. 66. Sanson has collected the results arrived at by others regarding the occurrence of dextrin in the blood and tissues of the herbivora (see last Year Book, p. 86). According to liis observations, dextrin is constant only in the muscles of sound horses, although it occasionally occurs in the"muscles of other herbivora. Sanson believes its absence to be clue to Ihe manner in which these animals are slaughtered—that is, by being bled to death—the blood alone containing the glucogenic matter. In animals otherwise destroyed the dextrin is readily discovered. He still maintains that it is illogical to regard the liver as the site of the formation of the glucogenic substance, and believes that the dextrin found in that organ is derived from the food. Dr. Fkankland.—On the Composition of Air from Mont Blanc. Chem. Quart. Journ., April, p. 22. As far as the quantities of nitrogen and oxygen are concerned, Frankland ascertained that they fell within the limits of variation noticed by former experimenters ; and although the comparatively high per-centage of car- bonic acid which he found in the air from the Grands Mulets confirms the observations of Messrs. Schlagintweit as to the presence of a larger amount of this gas at great elevations, yet the diminution of the quan- tity to about the normal amount, which takes place on the summit, shows either that this gas attains a maximum at a height of about 11,000 feet, and again diminishes above this altitude, or, as is much more pro- bable, the per-centage of carbonic acid is generally, but not invariably, greater in the higher regions of the atmosphere. These results also exhibit a correlation between atmospheric oxygen and carbonic acid; for when the one increases, the other diminishes—a fact which will be better ^een by the following table : Per-centage of Car- bonic Acid. Mean pev-ccntage of Oxygen in nir free from Carbonic Acid. 0.111 0 cd I 0.063 20.802 20.963 20.894 This result, if it be confirmed, Frankland thinks, cannot be regarded as unexpected, when we consider the effect of vegetation, combustion, and respiration on the constituents of the atmosphere; but both this and the comparative amount of carbonic acid at great altitudes are problems, the solution of which must be left to future and more extended inquiries.RBPOUT UN THB INSTITUTBfl OF MEDICINE. 124- F. P. Le Roux.— On the Production of Ozone by means of a Platinum Wire, rendered red hot by the Electric Current. Compt. lleud., 2d April, i860, p. 691. If the head be held directly over a fine platinum wire, rendered red hot by n current of electricity passing through it, an unmistakeable odour of ozone will be perceived. And if the heated air coming from the wire be collected in an inverted funnel with a long chimney, in order that it may be cooled in its passage upwards, not only will the nose be able to detect the presence of ozone, but test-papers held over the funnel will give distinct evidence of that substance by changing their colour in the course of a very few minutes. From this result, Le Roux thinks we are authorised to conclude that atmospheric air, in passing over a fine wire of platinum, heated in the manner described, undergoes a modification, and acquires the characteristic properties of ozone ; and further, that this fact permits one to hope that this will prove an easy method of obtaining ozone in quantity. Whether or not the electricity acts merely as a heating agent, or exerts some special property in the production of the ozone, Le Roux is not yet prepared to offer an opinion. E. J. Lowe.—A Neio Ozone-box and Test-slips. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 40, The box is simple in construction, small in size, and cylindrical in form ; the chamber in which the test-slips are hung is perfectly dark, and has a constant current of air circulating through it, no matter from what quarter the wind is blowing. The box is made by Negretti and Zambra, of Hatton Garden. Lowe makes his test-slips of calico, as it is stronger than paper. From experiments made with the box, he has drawn up several tables, which show that ozone is always in excess in the night, and that the tests exposed for twenty-four hours are much more acted on by the ozone than those exposed only for twelve hours. The mean amount of ozone, with the box suspended at the height of twenty-five feet, was— 1859, December.—24 hours' exposure = 3.0 48 hours' exposure = 5.0 1860, January.— „ „ = 3-9 » » =4-5 „ February.— „ „ =3-7 » » =54 „ March.— „ „ = 5.9 „ = 6.4 Mean amount of ozone, with box suspended at the height of forty feet, March, i860, with twenty-four hours' exposure = 7.1. Gorvjp-Besanez.—On the Action of Ozone on Organic Compounds. Annal. der Chem. u. Pharm., vol. cx, p. 86. Canst., vol. i, p. 184. The ozone employed by the author was prepared by Marignac's method. Moist air being drawn by means of an aspirator through a long glass tube containing a few pieces of pure phosphorus, the air so ozonized was then passed through two Woolf's bottles, containing water, in order to remove the phosphoric acid ; and lastly into a watery solution of the substances about to be experimented upon. In those cases where the substances themselves were fluids, to make a watery solution was of course unnecessary. When a greater quantity of ozone was required than could thus be obtained, it was prepared by means of phosphorus in large glass vessels (sulphuric-acid bottles), in the ordinary way. I'1125 SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. following out these experiments, the author did not consider that any substance was incapable of being acted upon by ozone until the experi- ment had been continued during many hours with negative results. (1) Urea: ozone acts as little upon it as any other oxidizing agent. (2) Uric acid is rapidly acted upon hy ozone, and becomes soluble in water. On the water being carefully evaporated, yellow prismatic crystals are obtained, resembling allautoin. They are more soluble in hot than in cold water, and with their solution nitrate of silver gives a precipitate which, when examined under the microscope, is seen to consist of little halls. By decomposing the silver compound with sulphuric acid, and recrystallising it from hot alcohol, pure white crystals are obtained. By evaporating the fluid from which the crystals of allantoin separated, a considerable quantity of urea is likewise obtained. (3) Allantoin is not acted upon by ozoue, neither (4) is alloxan (5) nor creatin. Ozone acts, however, on (6) creatinin. The solution loses its alkaline reaction, becomes acid, and contains creatin. (7) Leucin is not acted upon, or at least but very slightly. (8) A clear solution of albumen, when exposed to a current of ozone, becomes muddy, and appears reddish by direct, greenish yellow by trans- mitted light. At the same time, flocculi appear in the solution, which have a strong resemblance to fibrin, although they are not soluble in nitric acid. The formation of these coagula ceases after a time, and shortly afterwards even those formed begin to redissolve, the fluid becoming gradually clearer, and the absorption of ozone by degrees ceasing. At last the liquid, containing only a few light flocculi, which gradually subside to the bottom of the vessel, possesses a slightly acid reaction. Neither heat, mineral or organic acids, nor metallic salts, with the exception of acetate ', of lead, has now the power of precipitating or coagulating this solution, j There is, therefore, no longer any albumen present. Alcohol renders the liquid turbid. On standing there are no crystals formed; but if slowly 1 evaporated, there remains behind a brownish-coloured substance, partly l soluble in alcohol. From this aleoholic solution long prismatic crystals, - in star-shaped groups, are obtained. It is possible that they are benzoic ti acid. No urea can be detected. The change which ozone causes albu- I men to undergo is in many respects similar to that caused by pepsin— I peptone. (9) Ozone acts equally energetically on casein. At first the fluid in 5 which the casein is dissolved becomes turbid; it then gradually clears, j and at length looks exactly like the solution of albumen. Acetic acid i no longer precipitates the casein, but on the addition of heat coagulation 4 occurs. So, at this stage of the process, the casein appears to have been a transformed into a substance resembling albumen. If the action of ozone, 1 however, be prolonged, a result is obtained exactly similar to that - described as occurring with albumen. (10) When milk is treated with ozonized air, after a few days its casein I entirely disappears, while the fat of the milk remains unchanged for t several weeks. If the milk be evaporated after being so treated, a large I quantity of milk-sugar is obtained. Casein appears, therefore, to be I much more readily affected by ozone than milk-sugar. (11) Fibrin is not acted on by ozone; neither is (12) bone-gelatin, nor (13) inosite.B15PORT ON THE INSTITUTES OK MEDICINE, 120 (14) Bile, when freed from.mucus, colouring-matter, and fnt, undergoes no change; but if the ozone he passed through crude fresh bile, it is decolourized ; nnd on being evaporated leaves a residue soluble in alcohol. Ozone would, therefore, appear to destroy both colouring-matter and mucus. (15) Hippnric acid is not acted on by ozone. Gorup-Bcsanez concludes from his researches that the action of ozone in the animal economy resem- bles a decomposing rather than an oxidizing process. II. SQ&RODEft.—On the Filtration of the Air, in reference to Fvtrcfaction, Fermentation, and Crystallization. Aunal. der Chem. u. Pharm., vol. cix, p. 35. Canst., vol. i, p. 185. On a previous occasion, Schroder, in concert with Dusch, called attention to the fact that when air is filtered through cotton wool before it is allowed to come in contact with organic substances, the putrefactive and fermen- tative processes are retarded. Schroder in the present communication repeats the same statement, and relates at the same time a number of original experiments, from among which we select the following: 1. Fresh albumen was put into a bottle, mixed with water, and heated to the boiling point. When that was reached, the mouth of the bottle was immediately closed with cotton-wool, and the whole set aside in a room the temperature of which varied from io° to 150 R. In twenty? eight clays, the contents of the bottle were examined, and found to be perfectly fresh and unchanged ; even with the microscope the author faded to detect any organized bodies in the mixture. The same portion of albumen was now left freely exposed to the air, that is to say, the mouth of the bottle was no longer closed with cotton wool, and notwith- standing this, it was not until other nine days had elapsed that any putrid odour could be discovered. 2. Another quantity of albumen treated exactly in the same way. with the exception of the mouth of the bottle being left open from the first, had already shown signs of decomposition in eight days. Hence it would appear, that albumen freely exposed to the atmosphere, after it had already stood twenty-eight days in contact with filtered air, does not putrefy sooner than if it had, while perfectly fresh, been from the commencement so exposed. ' A second series of experiments was made in order to ascertain if ozone had anything ta do with the putrefactive process. Another glass bottle, containing albumen and water, besides having the air supplied to it filtered, had also a stream of ozone passed through it during several hours each day. At the end of thirty-eight days, the bottle was opened, and its contents examined. There was no trace of putrefaction, or of any organized beings in the mixture. The author concludes therefrom, that ozone is not the substance which induces putrefaction in organic matters. Albumen without water, when kept in contact with air filtered through cotton wool, also remains unchanged. Experiments made with the yolk of the hen's egg yielded different results. Stopping up of the mouth of the bottle with cotton wool did not seem to retard in the least degree the putrefactive process. The disagreeable odour, and the presence of vibrioncs, were detected quite a»SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 127 Boou in the bottle to which filtered air was admitted, as in the one freely exposed to the atmosphere. If, however, the yolk was mixed with water and well boiled, by being kept at a temperature of 1600 C. during a con- siderable time, it was then possible to preserve it fresh by means of the cotton wool. Sometimes, however, even this experiment did not succeed. Milk behaved like the yolk of the hen's egg, sometimes yielding one, some- times another, result. In order to discover the cause of this, Schroder made several experiments with the different constituents of milk, and the conclusion he came to is that casein, whey, and milk-sugar, when kept separate under filtered air, remain perfectly unchanged ; but when united in the form of milk, from some as yet unknown cause, are prone to putrefy. Fatty casein, coagulated by means of acetic acid, may be kept along with a solution of cane-sugar, under filtered air, for at least two months, with- out fermenting ; whereas when the same substances are exposed to ordinary air, fermentation soon sets in, and the cane is transformed into grape sugar, which in its turn passes into lactic acid. Coagulated hen's blood, after being kept in contact with filtered air during"forty-one clays, was found still unchanged ; while another portion of tbe same' blood in contact with non-filtered air became putrid in eleven days. Boiled urine remained fresh for a year and a half, in contact with filtered air. These and other experiments show, that nearly all organic substances such as blood, fibrin, albumen, casein, whey, milk-sugar, cane-sugar, grape-sugar, boiled starch, urine, &c, put into a glass vessel, brought to the boiling point, and while still hot closed up with cotton wool, may remain during months and years unchanged, although filtered air has free access to them. Only muscle, yolk of egg, and milk, in the generality of cases, it appears, cannot be so preserved. The substances never become mouldy, and even the fermentation of muscle differs from the ordinary putrefactive process in open air. Whether the fermentation and putrefaction of organic substances be induced through the contact of minute organized germs floating in the air, or of an unknown chemical substance which cotton wool has the power of attracting.it is impossible to say; but the above-mentioned experiments, at least show that mould can only be developed from spores or germs carried by the air, and that cotton wool possesses the power of arresting them. Why muscle, yolk of hen's egg, and milk should occasionally putrefy in spite of filtered air alone being permitted to come in contact with them, is a point most difficult to explain, and one which Schroder admits is not perfectly in accord with the before-men- tioned theory. Van den Brock (Compt. Rend., p. 773, 23d April, i860) calls the atten- tion of the Academy to two papers, one on the fermentation of the juice of the grape, the other on the putrefaction of uncooked animal substances, which he published in 1858 and 1859. The conclusions he arrived at are—1, oxygen has no influence either on the fermentation of the juice of the grape, or on the putrefaction of animal matters ; and 2, it is an organic ferment which produces putrefaction, without the aid of the atmosphere, except in so far as it is the vehicle of the ferment.REPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OJ MEDICINE. 128 Dr. Messer.—Zfcyw/ o» the Condition of the Prostate in Old Aye. Trans. Med. Chir. Soc:, p. 145. Med. Times and Gazette, 19th Mav, 1860. The report is founded on the dissection of 100 specimens taken from persons over sixty years of age; The author arranged them as follows : First, those under four drachms' weight; second, those between four drachms' and six drachms' weight; third, those over six drachms' weight. By so doing, a broad division is at once made between those that are comparatively healthy—namely, the first and second classes— and those that are so altered as to be likely to affect the health of the patient, comprised in the third class. In the first class there are twenty cases, giving— Minimum. Maximum. Medium. Age 67 ... 87 ... 75.9 Weight .... 2 drs. 5 grs. 3 drs. 50 grs. . 3 drs. 10 grs. These cases, for the most part, differed from the normal state only in point of size, and offered no obstruction to the flow of urine. The presence of small black concretions was very general in these as well as in all the other cases. In four cases there were slight appearances of the formation of circumscribed tumours. In one case abscess was found associated with stricture of the urethra. In one the posterior lobe showed a tendency to enlargement; but it was difficult to say whether the enlargement was more intimately connected with the prostate or with a fasciculus of the muscular coat of the bladder. In the second class are forty-five cases, which may be considered normal in condition, and which give— Minimum. Maximum. Medium. Age 60 . . . 94 . . . 76.2 Weight 4 drs. ... 6 drs. . . 4 drs. 57 grs. None of these cases suffered from urinary obstruction connected with the prostate during life, although the bladder was often found fasciculated. In twelve of these circumscribed tumours were observed, for the most part only slightly developed ; in three, the posterior lobe was slightly en- larged ; in one, abscess was present, the consequence of general paralysis. In the third class are thirty-five cases, which give— Minimum. Maximum. Medium. Age 60 . . . 87 . . . 75.2 Weight . . . 6 drs. 15 grs. . . 48 drs. . 15 drs. 2 grs. In seventeen of these, the enlargement affected both lateral and posterior lobes; in fourteen, the enlargement existed chiefly in both lateral lobes ; in 1 one, the enlargement affected only the left lateral and posterior lobes ; in I one, enlargement preponderated in the left lateral and posterior lobes; in 1 one, enlargement preponderated in the left lateral lobe ; in one, enlarge- ment preponderated in the posterior lobe. Thus it appears that 35 per I cent, of all prostates after the age of sixty are abnormally large, 20 per I cent, are abnormally small, and 45 per cent, are within the limits of the I normal weight. This enlargement is principally caused by increase of the J fibrous element of the body; the glandular also being increased in amount, but not to the same degree. This new fibrous tissue is deposited in con- 1 centric layers, and 30 forms circumscribed tumours. The frequency of this fibrous deposit is shown by the fact that it was present in thirty-four out of thirty-five cases of enlargement, in twenty-seven of which it wasSUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEltEST. H9 found in the form of tumours ; in seven, there was no appearance of tumours. Filuol and Joly. —Analysis of Milk from Different Races of Sheep. Comp. Rend., vol. xlvii, p. 1013. Canst., vol. i, p. 211. Every one is familiar with the fact, that different races of the same species of animals are characterised by certain external peculiarities ; few, however, are aware that the chemical composition of the internal secretions in a similar manner varies with the race. The researches of Filhol and Joly have clearly demonstrated this fact as regards the milk of the sheep. Their analyses of the fresh milk of different races of sheep fed in the same manner, and kept under the same conditions, on a farm near Toulouse, gave the following results : English Sheep. Dishley. Southdown. Merino. Laraquais. Tarascon. , -» V 6.50 8.05 Casein 7-5° 7.90 9.02 8.30 5.00 3-7o 4.00 7.60 IO.40 10.40 S-So 5-35 4.61 4-37 4.16 4.16 Extractive and Salts . 0.70 o-SS O.69 0.61 0.16 0.16 81.00 82.50 84.20 78.40 76.98 77-23 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 The greatest variation is seen to be in the quantity of butter yielded by the different races of sheep; the milk of the Laraquais and Tarascon sheep is the richest, that of the English the poorest in that ingredient. Schlossberger.—The Bile of the Kangaroo. Liebig's Annal., vol. cx, p. 244. Canst., vol. i, p. 235. The bile that Schlossberger examined came from an animal that died of indigestion. It was perfectly neutral, thick, reddish yellow, and had a peculiar smell. The microscope revealed in it small, round, conglome- rate, yellow crystals, resembling leucin. They were soluble both in ammonia and nitric acid ; but the quantity was too small to allow of their true nature being discovered. The analysis of the bile gave, in 100 parts — Water .... 85.87 Solids .... i4-*3 Mucus and Colouring-matter . . . 4.34 Cholcstearin and Fat . . . .1.09 Salts of the Biliary Acids . . . 7.59 Loss, and other Salts . . . .1.11 1413 The biliary acids contained only 2.47 per cent, of sulphur. The bile of the kangaroo is therefore, with the exception of the pig's, the poorest in that substance. 9130 kepoiit on the institutes of medicine. A. W. Vol km ann,—On the Elasticity of Organic Tissues. Reichert and Du Bois' Archiv f. Anat. und Physiol., 1859, p. 293. Canst., vol. i, p. 22. In order to determine whether, as Wundt had asserted, in organic tissues, as in other elastic bodies, extensibility and elasticity are propor- tional, the author recorded, with the aid of the ky mographion, the changes in length sustained by a silk thread, a human hair, a dog's artery, a human vagus nerve, and three lingual muscles of frogs. The results of his observations confirm the fact, that the extensibility of the organic tissues is not proportional to their elasticity, but as the latter increases, the former proportionally diminishes. Lambl.—On the Epithelial Cells of the Intestinal Mucous Membrane as Protective Organs, and on the Mechanism of Absorption. Wiener Med. Wochensch., 1859, Nos. 24, 25. The author finds that the cap-shaped bodies of the intestinal epithelial cells are, normally, not striated, but smooth, uniformly lustrous, and strongly refractive. Amici agrees with him in regarding the stria? as due to the use of object-glasses of insufficient aperture. Lambl believes that the little caps are rims which produce a cup-shaped space on the surface of each epithelial column. Striation and vertical splitting occur in disease—e. g., about tuberculous ulcers and in amyloid epithelial degene- ration. The author thinks that with the peristaltic pressure the epi- thelial cells become narrower and longer, and the "basic crater" deeper. Possibly the basic ring presses on the chyme-drop, and thereby increases the pressure exercised by the peristaltic movement. Jeannel.—Researches on the Absorption and Assimilation of Emidsions of the Fatty Oils, and on the Dynamic Action of the Fatty Salts of Mercury. Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 581. The author observed—(1) that an emulsion prepared from an aqueous solution of carbonate of potash and oil is quickly absorbed when injected into the intestine or peritoneum (dogs) ; (2) the emulsion may be injected with impunity into the jugular vein ; (3) oleostearate of mercury does not irritate the denuded corium or connective tissue ; (4) large doses induce paralysis of the hind legs, which is speedily followed by death ; (5) the oleostearate of mercury does not produce salivation in man, even when taken in considerable quantity. Tu. Ackermann.—Researches on the Influence of Suffocation on the Quantity of Blood in the Brain and Lungs. Virchow's Arch., vol. xv, p. 401. Canst., vol. i, p. 43. In order to observe the stale of the vessels of the brain under normal conditions and after death from suffocation, the author removed a portion of the skull and corresponding part of the dura mater from rabbits, after- wards closing the aperture with a glass plate and collodion. All the observations were made in concert with Bergmann. When a cord was drawn very tightly round the animal's neck, the brain retained its normal red colour to the end ; when, however, the ligature was comparatively slack, or only applied to the windpipe, the vessels, especially the veins, soon assumed a purple hue, and, at the same time, the larger vesselsSUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 131 increased in calibre. The normal conditions returned in a few minutes; but ten or twenty seconds before death the brain gradually became pale, in consequence of the vessels partially emptying themselves. The pale condition did not attain its height until an hour or two after death. In animals destroyed by division of the carotid artery, the cerebral anaemia is not greater than in the above cases. This state of cerebral anaemia is equally observed to occur after death from compression of the chest, injection of water into the lungs, inhalation of chloroform, sulphuretted hydrogen, or carbonic acid gas, as well as from the injection of prussic or arsenious acid. On the other hand, in cases of poisoning by carbonic oxide or light carburetted hydrogen, there is marked cerebral hyperemia for a comparatively long period before death. Section of the right cervical sympathetic nerve was found to cause injection of the diploe and of the cerebrum on that side; and three hours afterwards, when the left nerve was divided, the injection of the corresponding cerebral hemisphere became equal to that of the right side. Even under these circumstances, however, strangulation induced distinct cerebral anaemia. E. "Bertultjs.—On the Determination of the Real or Positive Action of Heat, Cold, and Moisture upon the Organism, regard being had to the Vital Resistance. A Physiological Essay. Montpellier, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 20. Bernard. — On the Cause of Death in Animals subjected to a High Temperature. Gaz. Med., 1859, No. xxx. Canst., vol. i, p. 24. The cause of death in this case Bernard believes to be rigidity of the heart and muscles, inevitably supervening so soon as the animal's tempera- ture is artificially raised seven or nine degrees. Observations on rabbits, gradually destroyed by the effects of a highly heated atmosphere, confirm this opinion. Lieber.meister.—The Regulation of the Production of Warmth in Animals of a Constant Temperature. Deutsche Klinik, 1859, No. 40. Canst., vol. i, p. 24. The writer found that a shower-bath, with a fall of some fourteen feet, and a temperature of 63.50 to 69° (17.5° to 20.5° C.) produced a sensation of great cold, which he, however, bore seven minutes. A thermometer placed in the axilla did not indicate a diminished temperature; indeed, it commonly showed an increase. On the other hand, the thermometer fell, and even fell below the previous normal indication, when the feeling of a pleasant glow returned after the bath. Sea-bathing and air-currents of a temperature from 63.50 to 73.5° (17.50 to 23° C.) were similar in their effects. The animal warmth produced whilst lying in a bath of 68°to 70° (20 to 210 C.) vastly exceeds that observed when the water is as warm or warmer than the body. At 70° it is greater than at 850; at 850 greater than at ioo°. As the superficial warmth is withdrawn, the internal tissue- change is enhanced, and thereby a greater amount of heat produced. The 1 internal application of cold to the stomach has not this effect. , J. C. T. Pr.vvaz, jun. — On the Physiological Ejects and the Therapeutical Applications of Compressed Air. Paris and Lyons, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. i, p. 22.132 EBPOUT ON TIIR INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Pravnz considers the effects of rarefied air on the organism to be— I, incomplete pulmonary expansion, with compensatory acceleration of the respiration ; 2, quickening of the arterial circulation ; 3, slackening of the capillary and venous currents; 4, retarded tissue-change; and 5, diminished stimulation of the nervous system as a result of insufficiently oxygenized blood. The principal effects of condensed air on the system he finds to be—I, that the lungs expand more thoroughly; 2, respiration is less frequent; 3, the arterial current becomes slower; whilst, 4, the venous and capillary circulation augments in speed ; 5, the excretion of carbonic acid and of urine is increased; 6, the appetite improved ; and 7, the nervous system exhilarated by the highly oxygenated blood. Pravaz advises the employment of condensed air in brain and spinal affections, some cases of muscular contraction and deafness, and also in articular, scrofulous, and rickety diseases. A spinal curvature, as it was before and after treatment, is figured.REPORT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE, PATHOLOGY, AND THEKAPEUTICS. BY CHARLES HAND FIELD JONES, M.B., F.R.S., fellow of the eoyal college of physicians ; physician to st. mary's hospital; &c. GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. Beck, B.—On the Medullary and Mucoid Fatty Tumours. Memorab. iii, 9, 1858. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 290. Braune, W.—On the Metamorphosis of Cancer into Mucus, a case of Cystic Cancer. Virchow's Arch., xvii, 5, 6, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 290. Svmonds.—Letter relative to Dr. Todd's Views on Acute Diseases. Med. T. and Gaz., April 7 th. Burckhardt.—On the Intimate Clianqes in Mucous Membrane, effected during Inflammatory Action. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Aprilj p. 521. Virchow's Archiv., Vol. xvii, Heft, i and 2, p. 94. Weisman.—New Formation of Nerve in Neuroma. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April, p. 523. Henle and Pfeufer's Zeitschrift, Vol. 7, Heft. 2, p. 909. Woodward, J. J.—Contributions to Pathological Histology.—(1) He- marks on Errors in the Anatomical Diagnosis of Cancer. (11) Remarks on a Secondary Cancer of the Axilla. Americ. J. of Med. Sciences, April, i860, p. 331. Lea, M. C.—On possible ultimate Causes of Disease. Americ. J. of Med. Sciences, April, i860, p. 360. Wagner.—New Formation of Lymphatic Elements in the connective Tissue of the Pleura and Lungs in Puerperal Fever. Arch. f. phys. neilk. N. F. iii, 3. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 15. Wagner.—The Combination of Cancer, Sarcoma, and Glandular Tumour. Arch. d. Ileilk. i, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 26. Wagner.—On Amyloid Degeneration. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., October, i860. Ogston.— On the Morbid Appearances in Death by Cold. Brit, and For Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct. •—Amyloid Bodies, and on the Corpora Amylacea in the Prostate Gland.—Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., p. 519.REPOBT ON 1-RACTICAL MEDICINE. 131 Billroth.—Onthe more Minute Structure of Medullary Tumours, and on Cancroid Growths combined tvith Mucous Oi/s/s. Virchow'g Avchiv., xviii, i and 2, pp. 82, 99, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, pp. 294, 295. Westiioi'f.—Microscopic Investigations on the Degeneration of Veins and Nerves in Cancer. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Nov., 1860. Beneke.—The Non-Identity of Connective Tissue,—Cartilage, and Iionc Corpuscles. Arch. f. gerneinsch. Arb. iv. 3. Canst. Jahrb. Vol. ii, p. 19. Tungel.—Neiu Formation of Gray Cerebral Substance. Virchow's Archiv., xvi. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 19. Wagner.—New Formation of Cland Tissue. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 19. Wallmann.—On the accidental Formation of Physiolog. Tissues. Zeitschr. d.,Wiener, Aerzte, 17, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 19. Keob.—On the Transmutation of Patholog. New Growths. Zeitschr. d. Wiener, Aerzte, 16, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 19. Rokitansky.—New Formation of Liver Tissue. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg\, No. 14, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 19. Patruban.—The Pneumatoses of the Human Body. Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., No. 32, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 19. Paulitzkt.—Amylaceous Corpuscles in the Prostate. Virchow's Ar- chiv., xvi. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 19. Ltjts.—Amylaceous Corpuscles in the S/cin. Gaz. Med. de Paris, i, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 19. Lasegue.—The Cell Theory in its relations with General Pathology. Arch, gener. de Med., May and Sept., 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 50. Virchow.—Cellular Pathology and Physiological Therapeutics. Vir- chow's Archiv., Vol. xvi. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 50. Virchow.—The Critics of Cell Pathology. Virchow's Archiv., Vol. xviii. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 50. Schiff.—On Fever Seat. -Allg. Min. Med. Ztg., 41, 42, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, pp. 60. Hardy.— On the Animal Temperature in some Pathological States, and on its Relations to the Circulation and Respiration. Thesis, Paris, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 60. ZnniERMANN.— On Fever and Inflammation, especially in their Relations to each other. Berlin Med. Ver. Ztg. N. F., 1859. Nos. 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 25, 27, 34, 36, 38, 40. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 60. Habershon.—Some Cases of Hydatid Disease. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. vi, p. 174. C. Ellis.—Tubercle,—its Pathology, and especially its Relation to In- humation. Amer. J. of Med. Sc., April, i860. Ellis directs his inquiry respecting tubercle to three points:—(1) Is tubercle "a specific exudation poured out under the influence of a special, general pathological state?" (2) Is it a degraded condition of the nutritive material from which the textures are formed, differing from that furnished under ordinary circumstances not in kind, but in degree of vitality or capacity for organization? (3) Is it the result of the metamorphosis of elements normal or pathological ? From original135 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. observations, he shows that both the naked eye and microscopic appearances are insufficient for the diagnosis of tubercle. Even the small granular corpuscle which has been considered distinctive is found in cancer, and in inflammatory products, and is probably only a shrivelled cell or free nucleus. The only common property observable in formations resembling tubercle is, that they show the most un- doubted signs of degeneration. He replies, therefore, to the above questions, that tubercle " is not a specific exudation. It does not exist, as such, in the blood. The yellow variety is always the result of metamorphosis—of degeneration. It is altogether probable that it is owing to a degraded condition of the nutritive material, which differs from that furnished under ordinary circumstances, not in kind, but in degree of vitality or capacity for organization." He discusses at some length the relation between the gray variety of tubercle and inflammation, and quotes the observations of Bernhardt and Virchow. His essay closes with a summary of the views of the latter, which he adopts, and which are as follows:—(i) " Tuberculization, the undoubt- edly local process by which is formed the product known as tubercle, does not consist in a peculiar specific exudation, but in a peculiar transformation of the element of tissues, which in 1847, I described in cancer under the name of tuberculoid metamorphosis. (2) The tuber- culoid metamorphosis is co-ordinate with the fatty, waxy, cretaceous, and atheromatous change, but not at all with inflammation, dropsy, suppuration, or the formation of cancer. (3) The tuberculoid meta- morphosis is met with in newly formed pathological tissues, in the old on physiological, and lastly, in both at the same time, which is the common and characteristic occurrence. It affects the transitory ele- ments composed of cells, or the permanent fibrous parts. (4) It con- . sists in a cessation of the nutrient and formative processes, or a mortification, necrosis of the elements of tissues, with subsequent peripheric absorption of the fluid parts, and the drying of those which are no longer nourished. This necrosis is caused by the accumulation of cell elements, which compress the vessels of the part. (5) These cells may be either newly formed, or result from an increased formation of the normal elements (epithelium, &c), or may have an endogenous origin. The processes by which they arise have the characters belonging to simple hypertrophy, suppuration, cancerous or sarcomatous formations, or to the infiltrated products of typhoid fever and glanders. (6) All these processes show a marked local derangement of nutrition, especially altered exudation, and point back accordingly' either to iiiflammation itself or analogous disorders, whether they originate in the irritation caused by local trouble, or are consecutive to constitu- tional causes, primary alterations of the blood, &c. (7) We have therefore, an inflammatory, cancerous, typhoid, glanderous, and sar- comatous tuberculization, which are the same as far as the character of the local process is concerned—that is, the metamorphosis of tissue • but differ more or less in the character of the whole process, whether the latter be regarded as attributable to local or general constitutional causes. (8) Tuberculosis is the entire morbid process, which includes the conditions of the local derangement of nutrition, with the changes in the exudation belonging thereto, as well as in the formation andREPORT ON l'KACTICAL MEDICINE. transformation of colls. It finds its constant regular expression in tuberculization. All tuberculization (tuberculoid metamorphosis) does not originate in tuberculosis. The latter may, in its earlier stage (that of exudation, cell-formation), bo present, even if there be no tubercle. Tuberculosis, wo consider, that morbid process which, when it pursues its usual course, always leads to tuberculization ; while we ascribe cancer and sarcoma, which accidentally tuberculize, to an entirely different process, and should never give the name of tubercle to thickened caseous pus. (9) Inasmuch as tubercle arises from the accumulation in the tissues of a great variety of cells, which in the majority of cases are destroyed, it is entirely without proper character- istic elements. Of the remains of the cells, the shrivelled nuclei present the most constant external characters; we may, therefore, retain for these the name tubercle-corpuscle." Buhl, Rindfleiscii, Beer, Wedl.—On the Formation of Pus. Vir- chow's Archiv., xvi, xvii. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 19. Buhl finds, in inflamed lungs, cells containing pus cells and a nucleus. The pns corpuscles are formed, he thinks, by endogenous growth. Kindfleisch states that the corneal corpuscles of the frog become large tubes (during inflammation) filled with numerous nuclei. The tubes divide, and become subsequently separate cells. Beer finds in inflamed kidneys that pus formation always proceeds from the connective tissue corpuscles. Wedl has observed the nuclei of the walls of small vessels to take an active part in the development of the cells of adjacent new growths, as abscesses, tubercles, cancer, &c. Wagner describes the formation of new lymphatic elements out of connective tissue corpuscles. Fuhrer denies the universal application of Virchow's doctrine of cell-pathology. Henle denies the existence of Virchow's connective tissue corpuscles, but admits that there are certain nuclear or celloid bodies, which seem to be the same as the nuclei of Virchow's corpuscles. Weismann traces the origin of a small neuroma from the nuclei of the neurilemma of an injured nerve. Lotzbeck found a tumour from the cheek to consist of sweat glands hypertrophied by unusual growth. Weber describes pus corpuscles, and the cells of lipomatous, sarcomatous, and cancerous growths, as originating from the connective tissue corpuscles by partition and endogenous j)roduction. Forster describes and figures a series of new formations of very various kinds, proceeding from connective tissue cells. Klob has observed the transition of a gelatinous sarcoma into fat. The result of Forster's and Klob's examination of amyloid sub- stance from the spleen was, that it belonged certainly to the group of albuminoid substances, and also contained a body similar in chemical respect to starch or cellulose. The composition of the albuminoid matter was 0=53-58 11=7 N= 15-04 percent. On applying iodine and S03, the blue reaction was perfectly exhibited. Schmidt, from examination of a spleen, concludes that animal amyloid matter is a nitrogenous albuminoid. Paulitzky has converted C. amylcaca from the prostate into sugar, by mingling them with saliva. He finds these bodies to result from amyloid degeneration of the parenchymatous cells of the gland. Luys finds constantly amyloid corpuscles in the137 GENERAL PATHOLOGT AND STMPTOMATOLOGT. contents of the sebaceous follicles, even after the skin has been thoroughly washed and covered with a glass for 12—15 hours. In some diseases the corpuscles are increased, in others diminished.— (v. Canst. Jahrb., Band ii, p. 19—25.) Sciiiff. — On Fever Heat. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg\, No. 41 and 42, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 60. Sclhff contends that febrile rigor and heat arc two phenomena independent of each other. He cites experiments of his own, to show that congestive febrile heat is not to be regarded as due to a paresis of the vascular nerves. In these experiments, febrile movement was excited in various waj^s, in animals who had the cervical sympathetic on the nerves of one limb divided. The result always was, that the local phenomena of congestion were strikingly absent in the parts whose nerves had been divided. Schiff attributes this to the paralysis of certain constituents of the walls of the vessels whose function is to produce dilatation. GENERAL SYSTEM, INDEX, TREATISES. Ixmax, T.—Foundation for a new Theory and Practice of Medicine. p. 374, London. Virchow.—Cellular Pathology based upon Physiological and Patho- logical, Histology, p. 144. Canst., Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 42. Packard.—On the Pyogenic or Suppurative Diethesis. N. Amer. Med.- Chir. Rev., Jan., i860. Gross.—Case of Universal Melanosis. N. Amer. Med.-Chir. Eev., May, i860. Cutten.— Unsuccessful attempts to produce Variola in the Cow by Inoculating with the Virus of True Variola ; perfect success on using the ordinary Vaccine Virus. Boston Med. and Surg. J., March, i860. TIartung.—Diphtheria. (Review chiefly Historical.) Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., i860. Goodeve.—Clinical Lecture on Typhoid Fever in India. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., i860. Indian Annals, Jan., 1859. Erdmann.—Report on the Therapeutical Use of Electricity. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., i860, pp. 97—125. A\ ood, A.—Small-pox in Scotland as it is, was, and ought to be, with Hints for its Mitigation by Legislative Enactment. Edin. Med J Feb., i860. Michel, Peter F.—Researches in the Communicability of Diphtheria by Infection and Inoculation, and the Period of Incubation manifested Gaz. des Hopit., Jap. Feb. Edin. Med. J., March, i860, p 86? Bowring, G.—On Yellow Fever. Brit. Med. J., March 17th, i860. Gardner, W. T.—Clinical Notes. Retrospect of Cases under 'Treatment in the Royal Infirmary during the first half of Winter Session 1859,1860. (November to February.) Edin. Med. J., April i860' p. 926; May, p. 994. ' ' Banks, J. T.—Rubeola with Effusion of Pus into the Joints. Dubli IIosp. Gaz., April 2nd, i860.138 REPOBT ON riiACTlCAL mkdicine. McOke.—Notes on Scarlatina. Dublin Ilosp. Gaz., April 15II1. Bkinton.—The Cure of Typhoid Fever. Lancet, April 21 st. G amheuini.—Iodide of Ammonium in Syphilis. Pressc Med., 41, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb. Vol. 106, p. 47. Snow, E. M.—Report on the Small-pox in the city of Providence. R. J. from January to June, 1859. Amerio. J. of Med. Sciences, April, i860, p. 468. Marc D'Espine.—Epidemic of Variola in Prussia in 1858. Med. Zeitung, 46—51, 1859. Med. T. and Gaz., Feb. 11, i860. Lawrence, T. Z.—A Case of Sudden Death without any adequate post- mortem Appearances. Brit. Med. J., May 19th. Frommann.— Cases of Hcemorrhayic Variola. Deutsche Klinik. 44, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 180. ScuiLDUAcn.—Report of later Procedures in the " Water Cure."— Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 209—247. Hussey.—On the Epidemic Small-pox in Oxford in 1854, 1855. Brit. Med. J., June 9th. Bell.—Contributions to the Pathology and Therapeutics of Typhus Fever.—Glasgow Med. J., Jan., i860, p. 385; April, p. 1; July, p. 173; Oct., p. 305. Cotton.—Action of certain Substances upon Phthisis. No. Ill, Iodide of Iron. Med. T. and Gaz., June 16th. Taveedie.—litimleian Lectures, comprising a Description of the distinc- tive Characters, Pathology, and Treatment of the several forms of Continued Fever. Lancet, Jan. 7th, 21st,; Feb. 4th, 18th; March 3rd, 17th, 31st; April 14th, 28th; May 19; June 2nd, 16th, 30th. Brown.—Notice of Revaccination of Children at the Orphan Hospital. Edin. Med. J., July, p. 35. Vlejiinckx and Marinus.—Observations on Revaccination. Glasgow Med. J., July, p. 240. Rilliet.—On Iodism. L. Union Med., March 6th, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, p. 245. Ciiavasse.—On the Employment of Gentian-root in Marsh Miasma. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, p. 247. Griesinger.—The protracted form of Cerebral Rheumatic Affections. Arch. d. Heilk. i, 3, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 28. IIebra.—On Syphilization. Wien. Ztschr. N. F. iii, 9, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 47. J'aye, Hebra, Llndwcrm.—On the Infucnce of a Mercurial Treatment of Syphilitic Parents upon the Health of their Children. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 49. Doyon und Dron.—Cases of Communication of Syphilis from the Suckling to the Nurse. Rev. ther. du Midi xiii, JulyTAug., 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 50. Ward.—Analysis of 1000 consecutive Cases admitted into the Seamen's Hospital, Dreadnought. Lancet, July 18th. Tardieu.—Reports on Hydrophobia as occurring in France. Med. T. and Gaz., Aug. 1 ith. Van IIolsbeck.—On the Diseases of Printers. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sciences, Aug.GENERAL SYSTEM, INDEX, TREATISES. 139 Fraser.—Stimulation versus Depletion. Lancet, Aug. 18th, 25th; Sept. 1 st. Pursell.—The Alcoholic Treatment in Exhausting Diseases. Brit. Med. J., Aug. 25th, Sept 15th, i860. Malmsten.—Case of Erysipelas, with Formation of Thrombus in the V. Porta. Hygea, Bd. 21, p. 612. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, P- 3°5' Reed.—On Typhoid Fever. Dublin Hos. Gaz., Sept. 15th. Levy.—On the Sulphate of Cinchonine in the Treatment of Intermittent Fevers in the French Army. Bull. Gen. de Therap., May, i860. Edin. Med. J., October. Ganster.—A Contribution to the Statistics of Bevaccination. Zeitschr. d. Ges. d. Aerzte zu Wien., i860, No. 22. Brit, and For. Med.- Chir. Rev., Oct*, p. 538. Haddon.—Observations on Diphtheria as it appeared in Victoria in 1859. Australian Med. J., April, i860. Brit, and For. Med.- Chir. Rev., Oct., p. 542. Isnard, v. Horing, v. Veiel, HettIch, Diez, Germain.— On the Thera- peutical Application of Arsenic. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 162. Bernatzik.—On Mustard Calces, and Etherial Mustard Oil as a substi- tute for Mustard-flour in the Field. Wien. Med. Wochenschr. 29, 30, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 165. Turner, C. W.—On Scarlatina and some of its Sequela. Med. T. and Gaz., Nov. 24th. • Hopfeus.—Notes on the Epidemy of Cholera Morbus at the Island of St. Jago, Cape de Verds, in 1856. Lancet, Dec. 15th. Hughes.—A Few Words on Mercury, its use and abuse. Brit. Med. J., Dec. 22nd. Wetzler.—The Sulphur Thermos of Aix la Chapelle together with Fot. lod. in Inveterate Cases of Syphilis. Med. Ztg. Russl. 27 and 28, 1860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 322. Grol.—Quinic Ether. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 196. Vicaire.—Medical Properties of Esculine. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 298. Duchesne Duparc.—Fucus Vesicularis, in the Treatment of Obesity. Aim. de Therap., i860, p. 242. Bouchardat.—On Infection produced in the Human Body by the Putrid Fermentation of Morbid or Excrementitial Products. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 273—304. On the Disinfectants which can be employed to prevent this infection. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 273—304. Bricka.—Peport of Cholera Epidemic, in 1853, in Denmark. 15.288. Copenhagen, 1855. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. i860. Bricka gives a report of the cholera epidemic in Denmark during 1853. Until that year no cholera had appeared in Copenhagen, though some cases liad occurred in Denmark during 1848 and 1850. The epidemic of 1853 lasted from June nth to October 13th. The total number ofREPORT O.N I'UACTICAl. ilKDICIMC. no cases in the capital was 7219, and the deaths 4737. The disease was not severest in those parts of the town whose sanitary condition was the worst. The very young' and very old when attacked almost always died. In many cases there was no premonitory diarrhoea. From the capital the disorder radiated to different towns and villages, and in a great many instances it seemed clearly to have been propagated by contagion. The means adopted to stay the progress of the disease were (1) house to house visitation ; (2) removal of the healthy from infected houses; (3) providing eating houses. The second of these measures appears to have produced the best effects, though it was not adopted till the disease had reached its acme. Gordon.—On Rheumatism and allied Disease in India. Indian Annals, Jan., 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Kev., Jan. Gordon shows that rheumatism is no unfrequent disease in India. Acute articular rheumatism is, however, not so frequent as at home, and cardiac inflammation seems certainly to be of rarer occurrence. In the home service the amount of rheumatism is stated at 6-89 per cent, of mean strength, in India it is 10-32, though much lower among women and children. The number of men invalided for disease of the heart in India is not a tenth of those invalided for the same cause at home. MbLLEit.—Meport ofthe Med. Policlinic for 1856 and 1857. Konigs- berg, Med. Jahrb. i, 3, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 52. Moller, at Kbnigsberg, relates, together with various cases of " interest, two instances of transmission of secondary syphilis. One was that of a child who communicated a roseola and condylomata to another healthy child who slept in the same bed. Another child infected a healthy woman who suckled it. He alludes to the transference of condylomata, various exanthemata and serpiginous ulcers from one to the other of two individuals of the same sex occupying the same bed, as having been not unfrequently observed in the vicinity of Kbnigsberg, and expresses his belief in the contagiousness of secondary syphilis. Croskery.—Treatment of the Fevers of the W. Indies. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb., i860. Croskery strongly recommends the following practice in fevers of the W. Indies. During the hot stage he gives 3ss of the mixture here stated eveiy half-hour, until free perspiration has taken place (Liq. Acet. Amnion. 5ij, Spt. Mth. Nit. Spt. Junip. Co. aa Sss, Ant, Pot. Tart, gr. iv., Tr. Hyoscy. 3ij, Tr. Opii 3i, Mist. Camph. adSxij). As soon as the fever lias gone off and the sweating stage been ushered in he gives Quinine gr. ij every hour, with a dose of 10—12 grains of calomel to clear out the prirnce viee, if one has not been given before. He strongly discountenances the use of quinine during the paroxysms or in large doses after. He contrasts the treatment of an epidemic of yellow fever which he witnessed as carried out at the convict establishment, and in the Naval Hospital. At the former the mortality was 20 per cent., at the latter only 3. The treatment at the former consisted in141 GEN'ERAL SYSTEM, TREATISES. a warm bath, emetic, purgative dose of calomel, followed by calomel gr.ij, Opii gv.}, 2dis. horis, till slight salivation occurred; stimulants were given when the strength began to fail. At the Naval Hospital no calomel and opium was given, but an ordinary diaphoretic and diuretic mixture with chlorate of potash. Gibb.—On the Properties and Uses of Sanguin. Canad. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 4th and nth, i860. Gibb states that Sanguin. Canad. is of great virtue as an emmena- gogue in skin diseases, as an emetic in the croupal form of diphtheria, as an expectorant in chronic bronchitis and certain stages of phthisis, and generally as a diaphoretic, stimulant, and alterative. For physio- logical effects see Report on the Institutes of Medicine, p. 59. Crighton.—On Diphtheria. Edin. Med. J., Feb., i860. Crighton records his experience of diphtheria at Chapel en le Frith, N. B. He saw 45 cases: 25 males, and 20 females. Of these, 9 died: 6 by asphyxia, 3 by asthenia; the eldest was 14 and the youngest 3 years old. Eight of the fatal cases, and several other severe ones showed marked indications of struma. In cases seen from the first he never failed to notice as the earliest local symptom of the disease, the occurrence on the mucous membrane, of a thick ropy fluid, which subsequently became converted into the diphtheritic pellicle if local treatment was delayed. Severe diarrhoea was a symptom occasionally present, as also epistaxis. Herpes labialis was common. The other symptoms were the same as have been observed by others. Dr. Crighton traces the causation of the disease to defective sanitary arrangements, and thinks that its contagiousness is very slight. He gave internally Tr. Ferri Mur. m..iv—viij, 2dis. vel stiis. horis, with Liq. Ammon. Acet., and locally applied a mixture of equal parts of Tr. Fer. Mur. and Acid. Muriat. dil., more or less diluted. To the early application of this he attaches very great importance, and states that when so used the exudation is coagulated, loosened, and speedily detached. W. Budd.—On intestinal Fever and the nature of the Intestinal Affection. Lancet, Feb. 25, March 10th. W. Budd gives 3 figures of the eruption in the small and large intestines, _ and argues that the intestinal discharges contain the especial miasm of the disease which, being poured into drains, may afterwards emanate from them. He points out that on the common view, which regards the miasm of enteric fever as merely the result of decomposing filth, it is impossible to explain the non-production of fever in thickly-peopled courts, where the air is loaded with such effluvia. He has full assurance that the spread of fever might be arrested by placing, on each occasion, a caustic solution of zinc in the utensils used by the sick. Hauner. — On Nitrate of Silver in Diphtheria. Froriep's Notizen, Vol. ii., No. 21, 1859. Med. T. nnd Gaz., March iotli.l L2 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Haulier, practising in Munich, found diphtherial present epidemically, not during, but after, scarlatina, pertussis, and measles had been preva- lent tor fourteen months. He in satisfied that diphtheria is contagious. He used nitrate of silver very freely, and with the best results. Oudeniioven.—On Beri-Beri. Ncdcrl. Tijdschr. v., Gcneesk. ii., p 577, Oct., 1858. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 308. Oudenhoven, in a paper on Beri-Beri, after a description of the general features of the earlier stage of the disease, proceeds to consider the three different forms which it subsequently may present, admitting, however, that these often occur more or less blended together. The marantic form is very chronic, but mostly tends to an inevitable fatal termination. The cutaneous anaesthesia and muscular debility of the lower limbs in- crease, aud the arms also become affected, until all the extremities are perfectly paralytic. The sensorium, however, remains active, and the functions of the internal organs are still performed. Gradually, the anaesthesia and palsy increase, the patient becomes utterly apathetic, and dies in a comatose state. The hydropic form has a speedier course, but admits of more hope of recovery. Effusions take place into the areolar tissue, and into the various serous cavities, and often prove rapidly fatal, especially hydrothorax and hydropericardium. The anaesthesia and paralysis are less marked. The poh/sarcous form is sometimes very slow in its course, sometimes rapidly fatal. The paralysis and anaes- thesia do not often attain a high degree. The heart is often notably hypertrophied. Death occurs, not uncommonly, suddenly and unex- pectedly. No post-mortem appearances explain the nature of the disease; in particular, nothing has been found in the nervous centres to account for the paralysis. The heart is generally fatty. The liver, as a rule, enlarged and Ivypersemic. Kidneys, normal. The treatment is essentially tonic and invigorating. Lawson.—Remarks on the Treatment of Inflammation, with especial Reference to Pneumonia. Americ. J. of Med. Sc., Jan., i860. Lawson's paper is occupied with a critical discussion of the views maintained by Bennet and others, regarding inflammation. He con- siders Dr. Bennet's propositions separately, and strongly controverts them, He argues that it is desirable to diminish the flow of blood to an inflamed part, and that bloodletting will moderate fever, reduce the force of cardiac and arterial action, and thereby diminish the flow of blood into the inflamed tissues, and proportionally lessen the exudation of lymph. In contradiction to the opinion that an inflammation, once established, cannot be cut short by treatment, Lawson strongly contends that this is both possiblo, and matter of common experience. In oppo- sition to Bennet's statistics, showing the greater success of his expectant treatment, as compared to a more active, Lawson adduces those of Bennet, Froupea, and Wossildo, who employed bleeding and antimony with a much lower mortality than Bennet. From a general and extensive review, he concludes that the statistics of pneumonia, as a whole, are utterly worthless and unreliable as practical guides. On the question as to whether disease is of a lower type than formerly, Lawson adopts the affirmative; although inclining to think that practitioners are oftenGENERAL SYSTEM, TREATISES. 143 unnecessarily shy of bleeding, he believes that there is a general lowering of the grade of action, which requires less depletion than did the same classes of disease in former years. Bedford, Brown.—Some Remarks on the Adynamic Type of Remittent Fever, and its Treatment with Nitric Acid, Americ. J. of Med. Sc., Jan., i860. Bedford notices softening of the muscular tissue of the heart, of the brain, and of the liver, as well as of other organs, as the most remarkable morbid changes found in the bodies of those who have died from adynamic remittent. The symptoms are essentially those of a low fever, delirium being rarely at all violent. Nitric acid, in doses of from 12 to 40 drops in the day, seemed to be of great efficacy; not a single fatal case occurred where it was used freely and constantly. For the abdominal complications of certain cases, the internal use of nitrate of silver was found valuable. WALLER.—Contributions to the Solution of some Questions respecting Syphilis. Prag. Vierteljahrschr. lxiii., 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 47. In contradiction of Lorinser's statements, Waller affirms, as the result of analyses made on 8 syphilitic patients, that mercury, when taken into the body, in any way, is eliminated spontaneously by the kidneys, and can be demonstrated in the urine, no iodide of potassium having been taken. Its presence in the urine is, therefore, no sign of a mercurial cachexia, no indication of the necessity of administering Pot. Iod., nor of discon- tinuing mercurial treatment. No cure of syphilis results on the com- plete elimination of mercury from the system. The characteristic phenomena of pure secondary syphilis, immodified by mercurialization, in fact, its natural course, are then described, and shown to be essentially similar to those which are observed in patients who have taken mercury. It appears clearly, that the administration of mercury for primary symptoms does not hasten, but rather delays, the appearance of secondary. The author concludes by maintaining that it is fully proved that constitutional syphilis exists, and that it has yet to be shown that there is any mercurial cachexia capable of producing similar morbid conditions as are observed in syphilis. G1 cert.—On the Infeclibiliiy of Secondary Syphilitic Symptoms. Bull, de l'Acad., xxiv, May, June, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 50. Gibcrt's report contains the replies of the French Academy of Medicine to two questions submitted to them by the Minister of Public Works, viz., (1) Are the symptoms of constitutional syphilis contagious? (2) Aro the symptoms produced in sucklings by the contagion of secondary syphilitic accidents different from those observed in adults? The reporter, from four experiments of his own, fully confirms the statement of Rinecker, which are as follows:—(1) The specific local reaction, after inoculation from secondaiy accidents, docs not appear before the expiration of the second week; as a rale, not until after the fourth. This long period of incubation, therefore, forms a very charac-144 REPORT ON PRACTICAL M KlUCINK. teristic feature. (2) The symptom which ariseB on the inoculated spot remains a long time limited to it, ami runs its course very slowly; so that, if no medical treatment intervenes, it is still constantly present at the commencement of the general accidents. (3) The form under which the local affection appears is that of cutaneous tubercles, which pass into superficial ulceration or into fungous growths. The nearest lymphatic glands arc generally swollen. (4) The general symptoms do not appear before the fourth week after the first manifestation of the local affection, often much later. The replies to the ministerial questions, proposed by Gibert, and adopted by the Academy, were:— (1) There are secondary or constitutional symptoms of syphilis, which are communicable by contagion. The mucous tubercle (broad condy- loma) ranks first of these. (2) The same conclusion is applicable also to sucklings and nurses, and there is no ground to assume that in sucklings the disease shows other properties than in adults. Ricord criticised the report, but seems to have admitted, at last, that the facts were unanswerable. Ricord's observations had always been made on the syphilitic, while Gibert's were made on persons free from every trace of syphilis, but suffering with inveterate lupus of the face. Forman.—Notes on an Epidemic of Diphtheria. Edin. Med. J., June, i860. Forman, out of a little agricultural community of 19 individuals, observed 4 suffering from genuine diphtheria, 5 from diphtheritic sore throat, 3 from scarlatina, and 3 from tonsillitis, while 4 escaped. The sanitary arrangements of the locality presented no defect, except that the water supply contained an unduly large amount of organic matter —2-o8 grains per gallon. Dcncalfe.—Gonorrheal and Syphilitic Rheumatism. Brit. Med. J., June 9th, i860. Duncalfe endeavours to show that rheumatism, when it occurs during the progress of venereal disease, is to be considered not simply as a concomitant, but as dependent on that disease. He relates a case in which Pot. Iod. was of no use until after mercury had been adminis- tered, when it became of great service. Bell,—Contributions to the Pathology and Therapeutics of Typhus Fever. Glasgow Med. J., Jan., April, July, Oct., i860. Bell contends that typhus, like every other malady, has a local habitation, in which it specially manifests itself, and also that secondary local diseases occur, often proving more fatal than the primary. After giving the details of c fatal cases, with autopsies, he comments (1) upon the condition of the heart ; (2) upon that of the intestinal mucous membrane. The fibres in the softened cardiac tissue are sometimes destroyed, sometimes more or less altered, undergoing change into a yellow granular substance, abounding 111 oil globules. The left ventricle is much more frequently affected than the right, the outer layers being much more changed than the inner. As to the nature of the softening, Bell inclines to consider that it is produced by an asthenic inflammatory process. He has found it co-existmg. inGEKEHAL SYSTEM. 145 several instances, with pericarditis, either verified by the autopsy, or declared by friction-sound. The symptoms are in a progressive order: (i) diminished impulse at left apex; (2) cessation of first sound; (3) impulse becoming imperceptible over right apex ; (4) loss of first sound over whole cardiac region; (5) diminution of intensity of second sound. The symptoms disappear in an inverse order. It is a very bad sign if, under the use of stimulants, the action of the heart becomes more rapid, and the impulse restored without the speedy return of the first sound. The pulse is a most fallible guide as to the condition of the heart. Wine, whisky, camphor, and musk, are stimulants which must be used freely, in some cases with flying blisters and dry cupping. Severe delirium or pulmonary congestion, if associated with symptoms of cardiac softening, can only be met by stimulants; if, however, there is no sign of the heart being weakened, tartar emetic and mild anti- phlogistics are appropriate. After an account of the nature of the abdominal lesion, he proceeds to discuss its relation to the fever, and states at some length the views of Broussais, Armstrong, Louis, Chomel, R. Williams. With regard to the question of the identity of typhoid and typhus, he considers (1) the similarity of the symptoms, (2) the identity of the pathological lesions, (3) the community of origin. He contends that, though the symptoms are not precisely similar, their points of dissimilarity are neither so constant, so well defined, nor so im- portant as to warrant the conclusion that the two forms of disease arise from different specific causes. Moreover, the points of resemblance are greatly more numerous than the points of difference. He believes that the greater degree of defibrination of the blood in typhus will account for many of the peevdiarities, and refers to the case of constitutional syphilis to show how many different phenomena may result from the action of the same poison. As to the second head, he refers at some length to his own experience (amounting to 51 autopsies), which forces him to adopt the conclusion that disease of the mucous membrane of the small intestines constitutes the anatomical lesion in typhus as well as in typhoid fever. From a critical review of the published experience of Chomel, Williams, Bright, and Armstrong, he infers that their testimony corroborates his own. He cites Dr. Perry's conclusion that dothiaenteritis occurs in combination with contagious typhus, and is to be met with in about one-sixth of the bodies of typhus patients. Stokes, Huss, and Skoda give their testimony to the same effect. Stress is laid on the want of relation between the symptoms during life, and the disease of the intestinal mucous membrane, as found after death, as furnishing a powerful argument in favour of the identity of the two disorders. The differences between individual cases of typhoid, and those of typhoid and typhus, may be so similar, as to nullify the argument drawn from the dissimilarity of the intestinal lesions. Bell contends that the essential primary lesion is congestion and effusion into the aggregated follicles of the small intestines, with consecutive sloughing, ulceration, and cicatrization, and that the chronic ulcer, which is considered by most as peculiar to typhoid, is in reality the degenerated primary ulcer, and not the pathological lesion. In typhus, the blood is too much defibrinated to supply the material for thickening and induration around the original ulcer. He criticises Jenner's 10REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 146 account of his autopsies, pointing- out defects which, lie thinks, impair the weight of his evidence. Bell next adduces evidence in proof of a community of origin between typhus and typhoid, and details three marked instances in which both forms of fever occurred in the same family and at the same time, the infection spreading, to all appear- ancc, from a single case. After quoting the confirmative evidence of Dr. Stokes and Dr. IIuss, he proceeds to a critical examination of tlie arguments of Dr. Jenucr and Dr. Murchison. In particular, he dissents from the view that typhoid fever arises from the putrid emanations of cesspools, or typhus from overcrowding and destitution, or that either form occurs only in the vicinity of their assumed foci. He objects that no essential difference has been demonstrated between the ah breathed by those exposed to sewer emanations, and that inhaled by those who are huddled together in badly-ventilated apartments. Cases regarded as typhus, followed, during convalescence by typhoid, he interprets as cases of typhus with enteric disease, which has not improved simulta- neously with the general amendment. The converse case he believes to be simple muco-enteritis, followed by typhus. Crisp.—Cases of Diphtheria. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 27th. Crisp records a mortality of 8 out of 27 cases. Albumen was not constantly present in the mine. No connection was noticed between the disease and scarlet fever. In most of the cases, the hygienic con- ditions were very unfavorable. Font an.—Neiu Experiments regarding the Origin of Cow-pox. L'Union Med., 29th May, i860. Edin. Med. J., i860. Pontan relates, that some mares being affected with a pustular erup- tion called grease (eaux aux jambes), the matter from the pustules was inoculated on the teat of a cow, where it produced several fine pustules. From these several infants were vaccinated, with the result of producing perfectly characterised vaccine vesicles. Thirty infants have been vaccinated from this source at Toulouse, and in all, the result has been most satisfactory. Martin.—Attempt to procure Vaccine Matter from the Original Source. Production of True Variola. Boston Med. and Surg. J., Feb. 23rd, i860. Edin. Med. J., July. Martin inoculated some variolous matter, taken from a pock upon the body of a man who died of variola, into a cow's udder, and suhsc- quently vaccinated about fifty persons with matter derived from the cow. Most of those so inoculated were attacked with variola, and three died. Hicord.—On Iodism. L'Union Med., March 8, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, i860. Ricord states, that Pot. Iod. not only causes the rapid disappear- ance of the symptoms for which it is prescribed, but also greatly improves the general health. The globules of the blood are increased, the strength restored, and the weight augmented.GENERAL SYSTEM. H7 Gexpron'.—On the treatment of Diphtheria, L'Union Med., March 8th, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July. Gendron considers that local applications are the most important means in the treatment of diphtheria, and prefers the perchloride of iron to nitrate of silver or H. CI. He advises that the applications be frequently- renewed, and made, as far as possible, to surfaces deprived of their 2)lastic covering. Sigmujjd.—On the Use of Sarsaparilla in Syphilitic Diseases. Zeitschr. d. Gesellch. d. Aerzte zu Wien, Jan. 2nd, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, i860. Sigmund, after a careful trial of the best sarsaparilla, has come to the conclusion that it does not exercise the slightest perceptible influence on the course and termination of syphilitic diseases. MouTiUiD-MARTiN.—On the Value of Sulphate of Cinchonine in the Treatment of Ague. L'Union Med., March 29th, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July. Moutard-Martin treated nineteen cases of ague with cinchonine. Thirteen were completely cured, two improved, and four altogether unaffected. Elliotson.—Reasons for regarding as simply Urethral Rheumatism and Ophthalmia what are generally termed Gonorrhceal Rheumatism and Ophthalmia, zvith Suggestions for their Cure and Prevention. Med. T. and Gaz., June 30th. Elliotson has met with cases of so-called gonorrhoeal rheumatism, in Which it was impossible that the urethral discharge could be the result of infection, lie lays stress on the inflammatory nature of the rheumatic affection, and advocates strongly patient abstinence for a lengthened period from fermented and distilled liquids, and flesh food. The ophthalmia is less obstinate, but is to be treated similarly. Arxott.—On the Treatment of Rheumatic A fections. Med. T. and Gaz., July 14th. Arnott strongly recommends congelation as a remedy in rheumatic affections, stating that a large experience has shewn that, in the great majority of instances, it is capable of immediately and permanently relieving the pain, and subduing the inflammatory condition of the part to which it is applied. A quantity of small pounded ice mixed with half its weight of common salt, is to be placed in a piece of gauze, and applied to the skin for about six minutes. Cutler.— Variola and Vaccinia. Boston Med. and Surg. J., March 15th, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, i860. Cutler was unsuccessful in obtaining the normal pustule when vario- lous matter was inoculated into young cows. With vaccine matter (such as he used for human beings) he succeeded. Llndwurm.—On Syphilisation and the Treatment of Syphilis with TartarREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICnfE, 148 Emetic Ointment. Bayer, Aerzt. Intell. Jil. 13, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 47. Lindwurm is led by his experience to assign a very subordinate place to syphilisation as a remedy for syphilis. He thinks it may be appli- cable to cases in which mercury and iodine arc not tolerated, or fail to cure. He concludes from his trials, that the same results may be obtained by exutories of any kind as are produced by syphilisation. Two patients were cured of constitutional syphilis by having two large issues made with Vienna paste, in one on both arms, in the other on both thighs. Hurra.—On Syphilisation. Wien. Ztsch. N. F. iii, 9, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 47. ITcbra states, as the result of his experience of syphilisation, that the general health improves, and all the objective and subjective phenomena of syphilis gradually disappear during the continued inoculations. He adds, however, that a comparative trial of iodine, mercury, decoction of the woods, and laxatives, shows that, with respect to the shortened duration of the disease, the rapidity and certainty of the cure, a decided preference is to be given to mercurials. Two patients were subjected at the same time to mercurial frictions, but the results of the inocu- lations were quite the same in them as in those not so treated. Keller.—Serpiginous Ulcers of the Skin. Wien. Med. Wochenschr. 46, 47, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 52. Keller thinks that "so much is settled, and can no longer be qui - tioned, viz., that the so-named syphilitic ulcers on the extremities, which are characterised by their g-rouping and renal form, by their serpiginous advance at their convex border, and their healing and skinning over at their concave border, are nothing but the results of mercurial cachexia; and the same is true of the so-called angina syphilitica with serpiginous ulcers on the palate, throat, or root of the tongue, giving rise to tlie aphonia, so often described as a characteristic of syphilis." Pot. Iod. cures such by eliminating the mercury out of the system. Medical lieporl from the Royal Imperial Hospital of Vienna for the Civil Year 1858. Published by the desire of the Minister of the Interior by the Directors of the General Hospital, Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 197, p. 112—126. The report of the Vienna Hospital contains a large amount of detail relative to various diseases, but it is not possible to abstract it. Gairdner.—Clinical Lecture on the Distinctions of Typhus and Enteric {Typhoid) Fever. Lancet, July 21st. Gairdner argues for the non-identity of typhus and enteric fever on the ground that, although fever has not been epidemic for the last six months in Edinburgh, five cases of typhus occur together in one group, while one case of enteric is sent to hospital from a distance, where enteric fever alone is prevalent. Gairdner has never observed, after careful search, that typhus has ever given rise to anything but typhus, or enteric to anything but enteric.149 GENERAL SYSTEM. HUGHES. On Periodicity as a Character of Disease. Lancet, Aug-. 4. Hughes argues, that ague is an affection of the sympathetic system, and thai its periodical character is dependent upon a periodicity impressed upon the sympathetic system, and manifested in all the phenomena, mor- bid and natural, over which it presides. The beneficial action of quinine and arsenic depends upon then influence as toners of the sympathetic. Kennedy.— Observations on Typhus and Typhoid Fevers as seen in Dublin. Edin. Med. J., Sept. Kennedy supports the view that typhus and typhoid fevers are the result of a common poison. He sums up his arguments in the following propositions:—(1) That typhus and typhoid fevers exist in Paris, London, Sweden, parts of America, and Dublin ; and relapsing fever in Great Britain and Ireland. (2) That in Dublin other types of fever exist, equally distinct from any of these; of which gastric, remark- able for its great duration, the congestive typhus of Armstrong, the febris nervosa of Huxham, and in summer the inflammatory fever, may be adduced as examples. (3) That these may exist in the same family, and at the same time. (4) That when a whole family is attacked at once, some may exhibit spots, and others not. (5) That two crops of eruption, as observed long since by Grant, are not uncom- mon, in the typhus of Dublin, and either may precede the other. (6) That one of these may be a bright red, and the other of a much darker hue, and that, they often co-exist. (7) That petechia? may exist with typhoid fever, and bright lenticular spots without this fever. (8) That bright lenticular spots may be followed by petechia?. (9) That it would seem as if typhus and typhoid fever could exist in the same patient and at the same time. (10) That whilst in London intestinal haemorrhage is common in typhoid fever, it is much rarer in Paris and Dublin. (11) That in Dublin the same haemorrhage is not uncommon in typhus. (12) That cerebral complication is more com- mon to typhoid fever than is usually taught. He argues also that as in scarlatina we have the greatest amount of variety of symptoms without a corresponding multiphcation of poisons, the same may be the case also with regard to typhus and typhoid. He indicates tempe- rament, habits, constitution, and amount of poison, as modifying causes, capable of explaining, in great part, the differences of these fevers. Levy.—On the Sulphate of Cinchonine in the treatment of Intermittent Fevers in the French Army. Bull. Gen. de Therap., May, i860, Edin. Med. J., Oct. Levy states that sulphate of cinchonine is sufficient for the treat- ment of most fevers which occur in spring and up to the beginning of June, and even in a certain number of cases in summer and autumn. In winter, when there are only relapses without any tendency to the malignant type, the same treatment will do, preceded or not by a dose of the sulphate of quinine. In malignant fevers cinchonine should not be tried. Both cinchonine and quinine are useless in cases of splenic tumour of long standing. W AJLLEB.—Further Contributions io the Solution of some debated Questions150 JtKl'OKT UN ntACTIOAL MEDICINE. in Syphilis. Trag. Vierteljahrschr. lxvi, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb. Vol. 108, p. 42. Waller relates three cases of syphilis in which the urine was examined to detect the presence of mercury, after it had beep adminis- tered. With regard to its spontaneous excretion, it appears that in ono case no traco could be found after three years had elapsed; in a second, no trace was found at the end of five months; in a third, none was found after an interval of six weeks, but some doubtful indications were observed at the end of five months. In two of the cases, iodide of potassium failed to produce any elimination of mercury. Two of the cases afford proof of the existence of syphilis, independent of any mercury. The general result of the cases is quite contradictory of Lorinser's views as to the pernicious effects of mercury, and the therapeutic effects of Pot. Iod. in procuring its elimination. Overbeck.—On Ilydrargyrosis. Wicn. Med. Wochcnschr., 13, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 44. Overbeck produced a state of mercurial cachexia in dogs by inunction. He found metallic quicksilver in the form of microscopic particles in the kidneys, liver, salivary glands, intestinal canal, and blood. It was not constantly present, even in the gravest cachexia. In the bones and lymphatic glands not even microscopic traces could be found, and only occasionally in the bones were there slight chemical traces. The diges- tive mucous membranes and the skin were inflamed and ulcerated, the ulcers presenting a gangrenous character. The bones were never diseased in any way. No bacony deposits in the spleen or liver, no iritis, giunmata, or sarcocele were ever produced. The blood was always dark and thick; in the worst cases it contained enormous fibrinous coagula; sometimes there was extreme anasmia. Renouard.—A Memoir on Medical Doctrines laid before the Parisian Academy of Medicine at the Meeting held May 24th, 1859. Eeport on this Memoir by Gibert at the Meeting held July z6lh. Discussion at the Meetings of August gth and 16th. Mem. ct Bullet, de l'Acad. de Med., 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 114. Renouard endeavours to enforce as a general principle in therapeutics the old axiom, " A juvantibus et lcedentibus fit indicatio." He contends that we shall never find the key to successful treatment in theories founded on even recondite analysis of the human organism, but solely in observation and experience. Bouillaud maintains, on the contrary, that indications of treatment must proceed from our knowledge of the nature of a disease, and that it belongs to the genius of discovery to find out the right means to counteract the disorder. Gibert, the reporter, sup- ports Renouard, and remarks that experiment in therapy rules everything. Ward ell on Enteric Fever. Lancet, Nov. 17th. Wardell's patients resided hi a row of houses whose sanitary arrange- ments appear to have been good, except in the important particular that the drain from the privies ran within a few feet of the pump-well. The well waters had long been complained of, and after heavy rains it was said to have a bad taste.NERVOUS SYSTEM, INDEX. 151 Aubrun (Lancet, December 15) cured thirty-five out of thirty-nino diphtheric patients with perchlonde of iron, 51J of awcak solution every five minutes during the day, and eveiy fifteen during the night, with as much cold milk (the sole food) after each dose. Kreyser.— Vaccination as a Remedy for Syphilis. Med. Centr. Ztg. xxix, 49, i860. The vaccine matter is to be inoculated by from fifteen to twenty punctures not less than one inch apart on the arms and thighs, and the iuoculations are to be repeated when the pustules they produce arc dried up. The results are said to be veiy successful. Loback.—Seeds of Carduus bened. and C. Marias recommended in mekena and disorders of menstruation. (Gaz. Med.) Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 146. NERVOUS SYSTEM, INDEX. Roche.—On the 'External Use of Cyanide of Potassium in Neuralgia, with Researches on its Physiological Action. Bullet, de la Soc. Med. de Besancon, 1859. N. Americ. Med.-Chir. Rev., May, i860. Pescheux.—Subcutaneous Injections of Sulphate of Atropine in Tetanus ; Recovery. N. Americ. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, i860. Brown-Sequard, C.E.—Researches on Epilepsy ; its Artificial Produc- tion in animals, and its Etiology, Nature, and Treatment in Man. Williams and Norgate. L. Meyer.—On the Relation of Chronic to Acute Meningitis. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 42. Hasslng.—Clinical Lecture on Syphilitic Paralysis. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. 1 st (i860), March 15th. Cowdell.— Cases of Neuralgia, Sfc, successfully treated by Narcotic (Atropine) Injections. Brit. Med. J., Feb. nth, i860. Banks.—Case of Acute Mania supervening on Chorea, with Remarks. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. 15th, i860. Purdon.—Case of Aggravated Hysteria. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. 15th, i860. Bonifaz u Mazel.—Case of Cerebral Rheumatism. Gaz. des Hopit., 124, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 179. Bkinton.— Clinical Remarks; Obscure Brain Disease; Necropsy. Lancet, March 3rd, i860. Toler, J.— Case of Severe Nervous Symptoms following a Bum, relieved by large Doses of Opium. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March 15, i860. Walker, J. H.—Case of Tetanus (Traumatic). Med. T. and Gaz., March 17th, i860. ^1 bates, II. P.—Case of Epilepsy cured by the Removal of a Portion of Depressed Bone from the Skull, resulting from an Injury received Ten Years prior to the Operation. Americ. J. of Med. Sciences, p. 87, Jan., i860. Little,—A. new Application of Chloroform in Neuralgia, and in certain Rheumatic Complaints. Edin. Med. J., p. 964, April, i860.152 RBPOM ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Brunei..—Sanguineous Cysts in the Cavity of {he Arachnoid. Gaz. des Ilopit. 129, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 37. Labokde.—Incomplete Paraplegia, Amaurosis, and Paralysis of the Vagus Nerve from Two Cysts in the Brain. L'Union, 137, [859. Schmidt's Jalirb., Vol. 106, p. 37. SCHRAMM.—Neuralgia of the Brachial Plexus. Aerztl. Intellig. Blatt., No. 47. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 38. Da Costa.—Cerebral Neuralgia and Death from Serous Apoplexy, with Remarks respecting the Occurrence of Serous Apoplexy. Charleston J., xiv, March 2nd, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 39. GORDON, C. A.—Infra-Cranial Tumour; Compression and Softening of the Brain ; Protrusion of one Eye ; Absence of Paralysis. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., May 1st, i860. Ross.—On Inflammatory Head Affections. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Science, May, p. 458. Griesinger.—Diagnostic Remarks on Cerebral Diseases. Arch. d. Heilk. i, 1, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 166. Schnitzler.—Acute Idiopathic Meningitis. Deutsche Klinik, 40, 41, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 168. Leon Gros.—On Sporadic Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis. L'Union, 108, 109, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 169. Jansen.—Sensitive State of the Cervical Vertebra in Choreal Affections. (Case.) Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 170. Thielmann.—Sempstresses' Cramp ; Rheumatic Anaesthesia of the Legs. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 170. Lobb.—Acute Neuralgia Cared with the aid of the continuous Galvanic Current, with peculiar Sympathetic Effect upon the Uterus. Lancet, May 26th. Weber, H.—Cases of Cerebral Affection caused by Diseases in the Region of the Nose and Eye. Lancet, May 26th. Aran.—On the Employment of Chloroform Internally and Externally in the Treatment of Spasmodic Contractions of the Extremities. Edin. Med. J., p. 1131, June, i860. Altiiaus.—Can Lightning cure Diseases ? Med. T. and Gaz., June 2nd. Spender.—On the Hypodermic Action of Morphia. Brit. Med. J., June 9th. Morton.—Case of Traumatic Tetanus, treated by Cannabis Indica. Glasgow Med. J., p. 458, Jan., i860. Thomson.—Notes of Practice; Facial Neuralgia. Glasgow Med. J., p. 46, April. Brinton.—Clin. Remarks ; the Treatment of Dclir. Tremens. Lancet, June roth. Laborde.—(Case of) Amyloid-Degeneration of the Spinal Cord. Gaz. de Paris, 53, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 295. Horn.—Syphilitic Gummatous Tumour of the Dura-Mater. Bayer arztl. in.tell.BL 37, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 299. Munk.—Syphilitic Hemiplegia. Deutsche Klmik, 47, 1859. Schmidts Jahrb'., Vol. 106, p. 301. Russell.—Cases of Epilepsy. Brit. Med. J., June 30th, July 14th. Middleton Michel.—Pathology of the Pituitary Body. Charleston Med. J., March, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., p, 257, July, i860.153 NERVOUS SYSTEM, INDEX. Geerds — A Bare Nerve Affection. Deutsche Klinik, 2, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 29. Flagge.—Hypercemia of the Spinal Chord from Exertion in Marching. Deutsche Klinik, 34, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 29. Thkile.—0>j Cretinism. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 81—109. W. Ogle.—Injection of Acetate of Morphia into the Cellular Tissue of the Arm in Delirium Tremens. Med. T. and Gaz., July 21st. Bkee.—On a Case of Myelitis and Extensive Spinal Irritation, with Paralysis of the Left Leg, cured by the Administration of Ergot of Rye, and the External use of Belladonna. Lancet, Aug. 4th. Bourguignon.—On Neuralgia of the Skin. Lancet, Aug. 4. Barton.—Case of Severe Hemicrania, treated successfully by Morphia Injections; with Bemarks upon the Class of Cases likely to te benefited by this Treatment. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 1. Wiblin.—On Emotional Paralysis. Lancet, Aug. nth. Curling.—Acute Idiopathic Tetanus, terminating Fatally in 60 Sows. Lancet, Aug. 18th. French,—Case of Hydrophobia. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Science, Aug., i860. Baker.—On a Case of Double Transverse Hemiplegia. Lancet, Aug. 2 5th. Jenner.—Hemiplegia; Plugging of the Internal Carotid Artery ; Soften ing of the Brain; Death; Autopsy. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 1. AYillshire.— Chronic Alcoholism, and its Effects on the Nervous System; Becovery. Lancet, Sept. 8th. Canton.—Chronic Alcoholism, urith impending Delirium Tremens, treated by Suspension of the Stimulus. Lancet, Sept. 8th. Alderson and Sibson.—Three Cases of Delirium Tremens, treated without Stimulants; Fatal Besult in Two. Lancet, Sept. 8. Hutchinson.—Death from Abscess in the Brain, consequent on long- standing Otorrhosa. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 8. Mohneke.—On the Deposition of Pigment in the Spinal Arachnoid. Virch. Arch., xvi., 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 298. Chalons.—General Peripheral Paresis of Bheumatic Origin. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 299. Gubler.—Bepeated Attacks of Paralysis of the Third Nerve. Gaz. des Hopit., 17, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 299. Marrotte.—On some Symptoms which may give occasion to confound Uterine Affections and those of the adjacent Parts withLumbo-Sacral Neuraglia. Arch. Gen., April, May, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 299. Child.—On the Connection betiveen Chorea and Acute Bheumatism. Lancet, Sept. 15. Farrage.—Beport of Two Cases of Idiopathic Tetanus, treated by Indian Hemp. Lancet, Sept. 15th. W. Williams.—Two Cases of Epilepsy, in which the Operation of Tracheotomy was performed. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 1 cth. Evans.— Cases of Tetanus; Cases of Chorea. Brit. Med. J., Sept. 15th. W ard.—On Subcutaneous Opiate Injections. Brit. Med. J., Sept. 15th. \\ ATSON.—A Case of Saldm Convulsions {Eclampsia Nutans). Brit. Med. J., Sept. 29th. Alfter.—Nervous Diseases treated at the Baths of QSi/nhausen. Pr. Ver. Ztg. N. F., iii, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 31.UErOIlT ON riUCTICAL MEDICINE. Ifi4 Duclaux.—Spinal Congestion as observed during the Harvest of 1859. Lond. Med. Rev., Aug. Arlidge.—A Case of Indurated Tumour 0f the Brain. Archives of Med., No. v. Gallwav.—On Sanguineous Meningeal Effusion. Lancet, Oct. 13. Brougham.—Remarks on Heat-Apoplexy, or Sunstroke. Glas. Med. J., Oct. Brown-Sequard.—Cases of Epilepsy; Spasmodic Movements of one Side; Intra-Cranial 'Tumour. Med. T. and Gaz., Oct. 27. Rogers.—Report of a Case of Idiopathic Tetanus. Lancet, Oct. 27. IIill.—Cases of Tubercular Meningitis; with Remarks. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 27th. IIautmann.—On the Pathology and Treatment of Spinal Diseases. Deutsche Klinik, 11, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 167. PniLii'rsoN.—Case of Idiosomnambulism, Abnormal Dreaming. Deutsche Klinik, 29, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 167. Lussana.—On Neuralgia of the Arms. Prize Essay, Milan. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, pp. 168—185. Cases of Chorea in Mirror of Lancet, Nov. 3rd. Brown-Sequard.—Clinical Lecture on Paralysis. Med. T. and Gaz., Nov. 3rd. Demme.— Contributions of the Patholog. Anat. of Tetanus. Leipzig, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii., p. 25. Forster.—A Case of Hydrorachis. Wiirzb. Verhandl., x.. 1. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 25. Forster.—Chronic Inflammation of the Dura Mater. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 25. Roger.—Clinical Researches on Auscultation of the Head. Bull, de l'Acad. imper. de Med., No. 2, Oct., 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 103. Gurrigou and Deleau.—Bouillaud's Clinical Lectures. Diseases of the Nervous Centres. Gaz. des TJopit., No. 81. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 1. Faiirner.—On the Diagnosis of Anatomical Lesions of the Brain. Virchow's Archiv., Vol. xvi, p. 307. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 1. Foville.—Note on a Paralysis not commonly known. Bullet, de la Soc. Anat., 1858, Aug. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 1. Forget.—Foudroyanle Sporadic Meningitis. Gaz. des JJopit., No. 123. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 9. Gouriet.—Diplopia of the right side in a Child, commencing Paralysis. Gaz. des Hopit., No. 93. Canst. Jahbr., Vol. hi, p. 9. Baillarger.—Gangrene of the Brain. Bullet, de l'Acad. de Med.. T. xiv, 1858, Dec. 15th. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 16. Dulaurier.—On the Heemorrhages of the Spinal Cord. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 16. Fiorry.—Theory and Treatment of Nervous Afections. Gaz. des liopit., No. 21, 32. Canst. Jahrb. Vol. iii, p. 19- So a0- Ciiatelain.—Hypnotic Properties of Sugar Candy. Echo Med., April 1 st. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 26. G unsburg.— On Vertiqinous Convulsions. Giinsburg's Zeilsch., Vol. x, p. 8. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 27.NERVOUS SYSTEM, INDEX. 155 Guillabert.—Essay on Sea Sickness. Giinsburg's Zcitsch., Vol. x, p. 8. Canst. jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 27. Marciiettc.—Cure of an obstinate supra-orbital Neuralgia by Frictions with Sulphuric Ether. Gazz. Med. Ital. Lombard., 1858, Aug. 2nd. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 33. ' . Trousseau.—Some Considerations on Sciatica. Chmquc Europ., No. 3. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 36. Vincent.—A Case of Essential Sciatica, Cliniquc Europ., No. 3. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 36. Tartivel.—Obstinate Sciatica. Journ. du Progres, No. 3. Canst. Jahbr., Vol. iii, p. 36. Jobert de Lamballe.—Considerations respecting Sciatica. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 36. Skoda.—Cardiac Neuralgia. Clinique Europ., No. 17. Canst. Jahbr., Vol. iii, p. 37. Piorry.—On Angina Pectoris. Gaz. des Hopit., No. 64. Canst. Jahbr., Vol. iii, p. 37. Trousseau.—On Choreas. Union Med., No. 16, 18, 19. Canst. Jahbr., Vol. iii, p. 48. Moderna.—Case of Chorea tvith Gesticulations, cured by the application of a Blister to the Head. Gazz. Med. Ital. Lomb., No. 23. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 48. Briquet.—Researches regarding the Therapeutics of Chorea, Bull, dc l'Acad. de Med., T. 25, p. 93. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 48. Deboct.—On the Use of Static Electricity in the Treatment of Chorea. Bull, de Therap., Nov. 15th. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 48. Bouchut.—Metallic Armatures in painful Contractions and in Chorea, (Joum. de Med. et de Chir. Pratiq., May.) Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, Pitiia.—A Case of Writer's Cramp cured (by Electricity.) Zeitschrift Wiener Aerzte, No. 45. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 55. Lespian.—Tetanic Prodromata arrested by Surgical Treatment. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 57. Sacre.—Case of Idiopathic Contraction. Joum. de Med. de Bruxelles. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 63. Grand-Marais.—Hesearches on the Fumigations employed inAstluna. Monit. des Hopit., Juli 28, 30. Canst. Jahrb., vol. hi, p. 63. Kichelot.—On the Treatment of Asthma by the Thermal Waters of Mont- Dore. Union Med., 55, 56, 57, 58. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 63. Tavignot.—Phosphorus (internally and externally) in Palsy of the Muscles of the Eye. Bullet, dc Therap., Nov. 30th. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 74. Vernay.—Observation tending to prove that a Segment of Spinal Cord remaining healthy may become an independent Centre of Innervation. Gaz. Med. dc Lyon, Oct. 16. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 79. Trousseau.—On Epilepsy (an excellent account of its symptoms). Cliniquo Europ., No. 15, 17, 18. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 81. Herein.—On Sclinum Paluslre in Epilepsy. Bull, do Therap., April 30, May 15. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 81.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIKK. 15G BrO*WN-SeQTJAKD,—Case of Writer's Palm. Med. T. and Gaz., Dec. ibt. Kamskili..—Case of Wasting Pah,/. Med. T. and Gaz., Dec. int. DOTAL.—On the Treatment of Epilepsy, special!// by Hydrolherapic Appliances. Journ. dos Connaissancea Med., No. 15. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 81. Lecoq.—Two Cases of Acute Epilepsy. Gaz. des Ilopit., No. 10. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 91. Secondi.— History -of {a case of) Traumatic Electric Chorea. Gazz. Med. ltal. Loinb., No. 32. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 92. ©JPPOLZER.—Symptomatic Hydrophobia. Clinique Europ., ho. 8. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 92. HetnRIGH.—A Case of Spontaneous Hydrophobia. Ilcnke's Zeitschr., Vol. lvii, p. 361. Canst. Jahbr., Vol. iii, p. 92. Nicor.LE.—Researches on the Development and Transformations of Hysteria. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 93. Pidduck.—The Vapour Bath in the Treatment of Idiopathic Tetanus. Lancet, Nov. 10th, Dec. 15th. Trousseau.— On Exophthalmic Goitre. Lancet, Dec. 8th and 15th. Curkan.—Tubercular Meningitis, two cases of. Brit. Med. J., Dec. 1 5th. Weber.—Cases of Cerebral Affections, caused by Disease in the reqion of the Nose and Eyes. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 117. Ogle. Case of recurrent Ancesthesia of almost the entire surface of the Body, accompanied by partial loss of motor power in all the Limbs, traceable to the effects upon the Spinal Nerves of effused products within the Spinal Canal. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 383. IIerard.—Serous Cysts in the Bight Hemisphere of the Cerebellum; Loss of Co-ordination of the Lambs. L'Union, 93, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 303. Coiin.—On the Theory of Paralysis Agilans. Wien. Med. Wochenschr. 18, 19, 20, 25, 26, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 303. Bourdon.—Blieumatic Hemiplegia, and Pneumonia. L'Union, 68, 69, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 304. Liegeois.—Studies respecting some Phenomena observed in an Hysterical Patient. Gaz. de Paris, 24 et 25, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 304. lloux.—Case of Cerebral Bheumatism. Gaz. des JJopit., 85, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 313. Brown-Sequard.—Epilepsy depending on Disorder of Menstruation (case). Med. T. and Gaz., Dec. 22nd. Brown-Sequard.—Epilepsy—aura starting from the left arm—prevention of thefts by the Ligature. Med. T. and Gaz., Dec. 22nd. Paget.—Case of Hydrocephalus—Puncture—Death. Med. T. and Gaz., Dec. 22nd. ViRCiiow.—State of the Vessels of the Brain in Epilepsy. Deutsche Kliiiik, No. 38. Med. T. and Gaz., Dec. 22nd. Hinds.—Nervous Lesions, in relation to Diphtheritic Affections. Brit. Med. J., Dec. 22nd. Binard.—Cerebral Symptoms in Blieumatic Gouty Affections. Arch. beiges de med. milit., Dec, 1858. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 95. Ramskill.—Case of Chronic Myelitis—Clinical Remarks. Med. T. and Gaz., Dec. 29th.157 XERY0U8 SYSTEM, INDEX, Davies, R.—Five Cases of Neurotomy for painful Affections of tie Limbs. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Science, Nov., i860. Beiiier —Administration of Sulphate of Atropine by Subcutaneous Injection. Bullet. Therapeutiquc. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 24. Mabbsoh.--Atropine in Epihpsy. Ann. de Roulers. Ann. de lherap., i860, p. 42. Heustis.—Belladonna as an Antaphrodisiac. Pressc med. beige.; Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 46. Faubb ; Beraud.—Inhalation of Chloroform by one Nostril. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 75. Case of Intermittent limited to one hand and arm. Amer. Med. 1., July 21st, i860. Meagher.—i<W C«ses 0/ Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis. Amer. Med. 1., Aug. 25th, i860. Brodie.—Case of Hydrophobia. Amer. Med. T., Dec. 22nd, i860. Browx-Sequard.—Modification of Nutrition in certain parts of the Body, under the influence of Irritation of the Brain or Spinal Cord in Epi- lepsy. J. de la Physiol., hi, 9, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107,^173. Roberts.—On some of the more unusual Forms of Paralysis. Lond. Med. Rev., November, December, i860. A. Lefevre.—Researches as to the Causes of the Dry Colic observed on board Men-of- War, and as to the Means of preventing its Development. Paris, 1859. Bailliere, pp. 322. Lefevre endeavours to prove that the colic of hot countries is nothing but lead colic, but does not give any direct proof that such is the case. A. Wood.—Case of Tumour of the Brain. Edin. Med. J., Jan., i860. Wood relates a case of tumour of cancerous character, occupying the floor of the fourth ventricle. Among other symptoms, the patient suffered from constant noises in the head, and unpleasant visions before her eyes. With regard to the latter, there was this remarkable peculiarity, that there was a regular alternation of dark and bright spectra. On one day she would see nothing but black objects, chiefly coffins; on the next, flashes of fire, and the luminous ball, would be the chief source of her suffering. The intellect was remarkably clear, but the eyes were constantly rolling. RoxzterJoly.—On Treatment of'Acute Chorea by Arsenic. Bullet. Gen.de Therap., Oct. 15th, 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan., i860. Joly records a case of acute chorea, treated successfully with arsenic. The dose was raised from ^r to % grain, and subsequently diminished to Ty, which was continued till the 26th day, when con- valescence was fairly in progress. C. Tcxgel.—A Case of New Formation of Gray Cerebral Matter. Archiv. f. path. Anat., Vol. xvi, hefte 1 and 2. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan., i860. Tungel records a case of new formation of gray cerebral matter. This was found at the posterior horns of the lateral ventricles, forming circular tumours, separated from one another by intervals of white matter. The brain was otherwise normal. No nerve tubes were seen in the tumours; only a granular mass with granular cells.158 REPORT OK PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Maino.wet.—On Diphtheritic Paralysis. Archiv. Gen. do Med., Oct., 1859. Brit, and For. Mcd.-Chir. Rev., Jan., i860. Maingatdt discusses fully the subject of diphtheritic paralysis, and gives numerous illustrative cases. He describes the paralysis as super- vening during convalescence, two or three weeks after all throat affection has disappeared. It first affects the soft palate, occasioning difficult deglutition and nasal speech. Subsequently it becomes almost general, involving even the sphincters. Death may ensue, or slow recovery. LoNGnuiiST.—On Coup deSoldi. Lancet, Jan. 7th, i860. Longhurst relates three cases of coup de solcil in India, which recovered under cold aspersion, stimulants to the epigastrium, pur- gation, and brandy and water. He remarks on the action of the stream of cold water upon the head, at first exciting the nervous system, raising the pulse, and inducing forcible contraction of the voluntary muscles; but if continued too long at one time, it was followed by diminution of volume in the pulse, and marked depression. He further insists on the absolute necessity for the removal of a patient to a colder climate, when once he has been the subject of this very fatal affection. Chapple.—Notes relative to cases of Sunstroke at Baroda. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, i860; Trans. Med. Phys. Soc. of Bombay. No. V., new series. Chappie reports, that the chief predisposing cause of sunstroke in the cases observed by him was intemperance, with one exception all were hard or free drinkers. Within seven days, 10 died out of a strength of 211, in spite of all precautions against the extreme heat. Suspension of drills and parade, and the closure of the canteen (save one pint of porter daily to each man), with removal to the seacoast, were the means which proved successful in arresting the mortality. Smith.—Remarks on Sunstroke. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 1st. Smith remarks particularly on the heat and dryness of skin which is observed both in the early and in the later hours of an attack of sun- stroke. Tie regards it as a prime point to get the refrigerating action of the skin restored, and recommends the administration of tea, ipecacuan emetics, and tepid douches. Gordon.—On the Prevalence of Heat-Apoplexy among Soldiers during the Hot-Weather Campaign of 1858. Edin. Med. J., May. Gordon remarks that it has been found by others, as well as himself, that heat-apoplexy is not so much caused by exposure to the direct rays of the sun, as by intense heat and close atmosphere within doors. Yet it is difficult to account for the entire exemption of women who are more in the house than the men. All causes that depress the vital energies increase the liability to the disease, and there are certain atmospheric conditions that seem to exert a great influence. Thus, a remarkable number of cases occurred on May 23rd and 24th, not only in one, but in various remote places. Dram-chinking is a powerfulNERVOUS STSTEM. 159 predisposing- cause. The plan of treatment adopted and recommended by the author consists of (i) Artcriotomy. (2) Cold affusion to the head and epigastrium. (3) Rapid counter-irritation by the application of a hot spatula to the nape ; and (4) Internal counter-irritation by the administration of croton oil. L. Meyer,—The Epithelial Granulations of the Arachnoid. Virch. Archiv., xvii, 3, 4, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol 105, p. 41. Meyer describes a new pathological alteration in the arachnoid, consisting in the formation of minute granulations, some low and roundish, others more elongated, which are scattered over the free serous surface. When they are numerous, the membrane appears thickened and opaque. They appear to be the result of chronic irritation of the arachnoid, and are found in cases of old standing epilepsy, general paralysis, and mania ending in idiocy. Duchenne.—On Ataxic Locomotrice Progressive. Archiv. Gen., Dec, 1858 ; Jan., Feb., April, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 43. Duchennc describes "ataxic locomotrice progressive" as a disease whose chief characters are the increasing loss of the co-ordinating power of the movements, and retention of muscular power in strong contrast to the apparent paralysis. The patients can scarcely stand upright, feel giddy, and believe themselves always to be impelled forwards. They are sometimes quite unable to walk, even when supported, and the attempt induces extreme exhaustion. Yet when sitting or lying, they can exert a normal amount of muscular force without feeling wearied. Anaesthesia usually sets in together with the motor disorder, affecting the skin, muscles, bones, and joints. The sensation of touch is first lost, then that of pain, then that of tem- perature. The anaesthesia extends towards the centre. Duchenne does not consider the motor disorder to depend on the anaesthesia; he believes the co-ordinating power to be primarily affected, and shows that (unlike what happens in anaesthesia) watching the movements with the eye does not enable the patient to perform regular move- ments. Pains occur in paroxysms lasting from a few minutes to several days, always affect the same spot, and are compared to a knife being thrust into the parts and twisted about. Constricting pains are sometimes felt in the limbs or chest. The pains set in at the com- mencement of the disease, and increase in intensity as it advances. The motor nerves of the eye are commonly affected by paralysis at the commencement, usually one of them, especially the sixth. Am- blyopia or amaurosis accompanies the paralysis, and is more permanent. Other cerebral nerves, except the olfactory, are sometimes paralysed the virile power is almost invariably weakened, the sphincters are sometimes paralysed, sometimes there is difficulty in the expulsion of urine and faeces. The intellect remains unaffected, and also the electro- muscular contractility. The disease is very chronic, may continue twenty years, but the sufferers are usually cut off by intercurrent diseases. The diseases with which the one in question may be con- founded, arc, the general paralysis of the insane, general spinal paralysis, wasting muscular palsy, paralysis agitans, and hystericalREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. ICO anaesthesia. The causes are often obscure. Duchenne mentions as ])robable, masturbation, cold, and syphilis. Females are seldom affected. The ages of Duchenne's patients varied from 18 to 42 years. The seat of the disorder Duchenne locates in tbe cerebellum, corpora quadri- gemina, and the intervening commissure. Treatment is not hopeless, but the subject is reserved for a future work. Albers.—On Syphilis of the Brain, and the Nervous and Physical Disorders resxdting from it. AUg. Ztschr. f. Psychiatr., xvi, 3, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 10c, p. 49. Albers describes the effects of syphilis affecting the brain, and the nerves connected with it. The cranial bones are affected either in their outer or inner table, and sometimes in both at once. The necrosis is not limited by the sutures, as they become obliterated. The bones also become sclerosed, even the diploe being replaced by firm bony matter. Both necrosis and sclerosis are probably preceded by periostitis. When the head is equally affected in every part, and tho pain is general; when after deep previous melancholia, or delirium, loss of consciousness comes on with sopor, the visceral layer of the arachnoid, and the pia mater, arc found covered with vessels full of blood. The exudation is however scanty, amounting scarcely to more than a milky opacity of the membranes. Giddiness and melancholia, often of years' duration, occurring in syphilitic patients advanced in age and of robust make, followed by sudden paralytic seizure, are symptoms which are observed in cases where the cerebral arteries, both smaller and larger, arc found ossified, or more properly in a state of atheromatous degeneration. Hemorrhage or atrophic softening may result from this condition of the arteries in various parts of the brain. SedGewick.—Case of Tetanus treated with Aconite. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 28th, i860. Sedgewick details a successful case of traumatic tetanus treated by aconite. The symptoms were very severe, and though chlorodyne and sumbul were also given, yet it was only when the effects of aconite appeared that they subsided. Twice, when the aconite was suspended, once to try the effect, once because the tingling and giddiness were becoming extreme, did the spasms return, to abate again on the resump- tion of the drug. The treatment was commenced on the twelfth day after the accident, and the third day of the disease, it was continued twenty-seven days. The patient was a strong, healthy man, ret. 30. 0. Donovan.—On Delirium Tremens. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb., i860. . ... Donovan relates twelve cases of delirium tremens. His conviction is, that the disease is one of debility, that all the organs in the body arc impaired in their functions, and that the symptoms are not the results of inflammatory action. He notices particularly the aggravation of the symptoms during the night, and their remission during the day. an alternation which is more marked in bad cases. It is during the period of remission, that the best, perhaps the only opportunity is afforded of successfully combating the disease. Purgatives and emetics followedNERVOUS SYSTEM. 1G1 by a free use of opium, constitute the treatment he has found most successful. RoiXESTON.—On the Cerebellum, with a case illustrating its pathology. Med. T. and Gaz., Feb. 18th, i860. Rolleston relates a case of supposed cerebellar disease. A girl, 931. 10, is unable to support her head, which falls over to one side or other, according as the muscles of that side contract. When, however, the head is lying on a pillow she can turn it. Some time previously she lost the power of maintaining the erect position, though she could move the leg while recumbent. He states that stiffness of the neck, and inability to maintain the erect posture when raised into it without any paralysis of one or both legs while recumbent, when coexisting, point all but pathognomonically to cerebellar disease. Gcido Weber.—On hamialoma of the Dura Mate)'. Leipsic, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 178. Guido Weber maintains Virchow's view, that effusion of blood between the dura mater and the arachnoid, is not in most cases a primary occurrence, but that mflammatory exudation first occurs, and is developed into a fibrous membrane traversed by a copious network of new-formed vessels. From the rupture of these the extravasation proceeds. In only 2 out of 22 cases was no trace of false membrane discoverable. Atheroma of the cerebral arteries did not appear from the autopsies to be a frequent cause of these hsematomata. Frommann.—Case of Argyria with Deposits of Silver in the Intestines, Liver, Kidneys, and Spleen. Virchow's Archiv. xvii, 1 and 2. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 187. Frommann records in detail the post-mortem examination of an epileptic patient who took in about nine months 3^ ounces of nitrate of silver with the effect of causing discoloration of the skin of the face and other parts, while the disease diminished, and at last ceased. Simultaneously with the discoloration, disorder of the stomach set in, which increased to absolute gastritis, which was followed by cachexia, and rapid tuberculous phthisis, of which he died two years and a hah' after the commencement of the argyria, or silver poisoning. The stomach was found much inflamed, with a perforating ulcer upon its posterior wall. The intestinal villi, especially in the duodenum and jeju- num, contained at then- tips black granules, which dissolved in cyanide of potassium. In the liver and spleen the black deposit was very abundant, and chiefly affected the coats of the smaller vessels. In the kidneys, the pyramids were the especial seat of the deposit, the cortical substance remaining free except the Malpig. tufts, which appeared as small black points. Sections of the skin showed a narrow, dull violet, or red-brown streak in the most superficial layer of the cutis close under the rete mucos. This streak followed the outlines of the cuta- neous papilla;.. The perspiratory glands were also dark stained, but not their excretory ducts, nor the surrounding tissues. Metallic silver in small quantity was obtained from the liver and the kidneys. 11REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 1G2 Russell.—Cases of Syphilitic Disease of tlie Cranium. Brit. Mod. J., March 3rd, i860. Russell's first case presented paralysis of the left third nerve, and optic, and improved under mercury and pot. iod. In the second there was almost complete anaesthesia of the right eye and side of the face, and right nostril, and of the mucous surface of the right cheek and jaws. The vision of the right eye was Impaired, and the pupil contracted. Treatment was of no avail. His intellectual power was decidedly enfeebled. In a third case after some previous cerebral symptoms an apoplectic attack occurred with general convulsions, followed by hemi- plegia, and a paralytic and rigid state of the left arm. lie was much benefited by the use of mercury. Lenhossek.—Contributions to the Pathol. Anat. of the Spinal Cord. Beilage zu Oestcr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk. v. 43, 44, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 300. Lenhossek gives the results of 322 autopsies relating to the morbid condition of the spinal cord, and its envelopes. Some of these are as follows: Sclerosis of the pia mater is common, giving an appear- ance of induration and hypertrophy to the cord. Pigment formation in cells is common in the Pons Varol. and Med. Oblong. Thrombosis of the veins occurs chiefly hi the anterior venous sinus. Dilatation of the central canal of the cord, and conversion of the anterior longitudinal fissure into a canal were sometimes found. Atrophy is usually partial depending on abnormal increase of connective tissue, or on external pressure. When the olivary bodies are affected the hypo-glossal roots are also wasted. Fatty degeneration of the smaller blood-vessels was observed, and fatty metamorphosis of the tvhite and grey substance was found after meningitis, apoplexy, &c. As forms of softening he enume- rates white, which always results from oedema and is attended with swelling of the tissue; greyish-red, the result of chronic inflammations, and apoplexies; granular, always associated with swelling, and specially prevailing in advanced idiocy; and red which always results from capillary apoplexy. Sclerosis from fibroid formation, venous varicosities, exudation corpuscles, corpora aipylacea connected with encroaching growths of pia mater and colloid corpuscles are all met with iu the cord, but tubercle never, not even in extreme tuberculosis. Fissures are sometimes found iu the cord occupied by debris of tissue and exudation stuff. In such cases there have been marked symptoms during life, apoplectic attacks, paralysing violent pains. One case of scirrhus was met with. Ligget.—Case of Hydrophobia, successfully treated with drachm doses of Calomel. Amcr. Q. J. of Med. Sc., Jan. i860, p. 87. Ligget in remarking upon his case of hydrophobia, lays down the following propositions as containing his views. 1st. The hydrophobic virus is an irritant poison whose action is directed, primarily and direct ly, on the great nervous centres, producing a perversion of their action upon the entire organization, and thus secondarily and indirectly, derang- ing the functions of the other organs of animal life. 2nd. This virus1G3 NERVOUS SYSTEM. when deposited in a wound, remains for an indefinite period oT time, locked up at the seat of injury, harmless and inert, until some exciting- cause occasions it to be absorbed into the circulation, whence it is carried to the brain and spinal cord to initiate its work of suffering and death. 3rd. The primary effect of the poison on the cercbro-spinal system is to depress its action. This is succeeded by great exaltation of the sensibility and irritability of the nervous system, which progressively increases until there is a total exhaustion of the vital forces, and death results from asthenia. 4th, 5th. The increased flow of saliva appears to be a conservative effort of the vis medicatrix to eliminate the poison from the system through the glands engaged in its secretion. Ligget gives, therefore, mercury both to eliminate the poison, and to reduce the extreme excitability of the nervous system. The case really appears to have been one of hydrophobia. Four and a half drachms of calomel were given in three days producing ptyalism, V. S. ad. Sxxxvi, having been premised. Recovery was complete by the twelfth day. Marce.—(Edema of tlie Brain. Bullet, of the Anat. Soc. Gaz. hebd., October 21st. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 11. Marce shows by experiment that the brain is capable of absorbing water to the amount of half the weight of the portion experimented with. He has constantly found also that in brain's whose membranes were infiltrated with serosity, the grey matter contained a larger pro- portion of water than in the normal state e. g. 85-90 per cent, in place of 80 per cent. Bond.—On the Pathology of Chorea. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev. July, i860. Bond contends that the defect in chorea does not consist in a perver- sion of the will, but in a diminution or abolition of it. He regards the movements as of a reflex nature, and therefore not attended with Fatigue. After reviewing the various phenomena he comes to the con- clusion, that " the peculiarity of the constitution of choreic patients consists in a tendency to generate a constant excess of nerve force, which in their ordinary state of health, when the will is strong enough to restrain unusual muscular movements, finds a vent in emotional manifestations, in activity of body, or more rarely in intellectual efforts." Tie remarks that such a constitution as this is radically a weak one, in a state of chronic irritability, aud quickly exhausted. Among the various causes he notices the effects of fright, the toxemic action of rheumatism, and in the young, and overfed, an excess of spontaneous muscular activity. Under the head of treatment he strongly recom- mends a well-arranged course of gymnastic exercises. These will enable the patient to get rid of his diseased consciousness, to break the incessant chain of nervous impulses transmitted through the cere- brospinal axis, and to restore to the enfeebled will its healthy control over all the other nervous functions. Luys.—Progressive Muscular Atrophy, with disease of the grey matter of the Spinal Cord. Gaz. Med. de Paris. Edin. Med. J., Sept. i860.11EP011T ON PItACTICAI. MEDICINE. with quiet and repose. In (2) he endeavours to procure sleep by 1G4 In Lays' case the spinal cord presented a well-marked atrophy of the anterior roots of five nerves, on a level with and above the brachial enlargement. The capillary vessels of the corresponding part of the cord were enormously developed and turgid with blood. The inter- vening grey matter had in some places completely disappeared, and was replaced by a large amount of amyloid bodies. Nerve cells could not be found in the anterior cornua of the grey matter, nor in the posterior. IIuGnES.—Cases illustrative of the influence of Belladonna. Brit. Med. J., Sept. 8th. Hughes regards belladonna as a stimulator of the sympathetic and a depressor of the cerebro-spinal nerves. He believes that we have in it an agent capable of producing through the nerves contraction of the capillaries of inflamed parts, and that as we come to have more experience of its effects we shall be able to control inflammation much better. For Physiological Action, sec Report on Institutes of Medicine, p. 60. Paget.—A case of Epilepsy, with some uncommon Symptoms, and a Commentary thereon. Brit. Med. J., Sept. 22nd. Paget's patient was a male, ast. 20, who had regular epileptic paroxysms, and besides frequent bursts of unmeaning laughter occurring day after day, and several times in the day, suddenly and without obvious cause. In connection with the epileptic seizures he had, on two occasions, severe tetanoid spasms, joined on the last with rotatory movements both when lying down and standing. At one time he was delirious and violent, and unconscious, since which Ins temper has become obstinate and self-willed. Latterly both laughing and regular fits have been preceded by an aiu-a proceeding upwards from the navel. Dunglison.—On ihe Rational Treatment of Delirium Tremens. Edin. Med. J., April i860. Dunglison in a letter to Dr. Laycock, states that he has treated delirium tremens for many years in a nearly similar manner to that recommended by Laycock, viz., hi an eclectic or expectant manner, without excitants, or opiates. Marston.—On Delirium Tremens. Edin. Med. J., Oct. i860. Marston distinguishes three separate forms of Delirium Tremens :— (1) Delirium e potu, or D. Ebrietatis, (2) D. Ebriosorum, (3) D. com- plicated with visceral disease. In (1) the disease follows a debauch within 24 or 48 hours; it is an acute alcoholic poisoning, with intervals of weeks or months of sobriety. In (2) the disease attacks men who have been in the habit of drinking for years, but not getting dead drunk. In (3) the symptoms vary according to the complication. He gives proof of the supervention of the disease after withdrawal of the habitual stimulus. In (1) form he advises only an emetic-purgativeNERVOUS SYSTEM. 165 opium or chloroform, and gives stimulants and support, premising, however, free purgation to the opium. pox<—Delirium Tremens. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 24th. Pox considers that alcohol is not in itself, directly, the exciting cause of the delirium, hut the altered condition of the blood which it produces. The indications of treatment are to eliminate the poison, to nourish the brain, and subdue congestion. He disapproves of the treatment by opium and stimulants, and recommends food and iron. Mater.—The import of Pain in the Back in Diseases of the Spinal Cord and surrounding parts. Archiv. d. Heilk. i, 4, i860. Schmidt's Jahrh., Vol. 108, p. 31. Mayer distinguishes pain from tactile sensations, locates the conduc- tion of the former in the grey substance of the cord, of the latter in the posterior columns, and enumerates the four following kinds of pain :— (1) inflammatory; (2) irradiated; (3) neuralgic; (4) excentric. Pres- sure or moving are always sufficient to determine the existence of pain in the back, but not its special seat. Congestion of the spinal cord and its membrane produce severe dorsal pains, but inflammations, even when acute, do not necessarily cause pain. In tabes dorsalis there is often at the commencement severe pain. In apoplexy of the cord pain opposite the seat of the haemorrhage is one of the most important symptoms, and is felt spontaneously and on pressure. Tubercular deposit in the cord occasions pain, as well as tumours proceeding from the membranes. Natanson. The Physiological Diagnosis of Muscular Spasm. Deutsche Klinik, 25, i860. Natanson states as follows the distinction of the two kinds of spasms. The direct spasms are always tonic, enduring, and painful, attended with extreme tension of the muscles. The induced are always clonic of short duration, painless, and attended with an ordinary amount of tension. In the former, the stimulus is propagated along one nerve to a definite group of muscles ; in the other, the irritation is diffused more e xtensively to a set of groups of muscles which combine in some phy- siological act. Trousseau.—On Intermitting Tetanic Cramps. Gaz. des H8pit a.a i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 34. Trousseau states the predisposing causes of the contractions to be nursing, chronic diarrhoea, and chills. Then- nature he deems rheumatic. They may affect one extremity, or all the voluntary muscles. Fever is present in severe cases. He recommends bleeding, quinine, and nar- cotics. Esvnro.—Notice of a form of Paralysis of the Loiuer Extremities. Indian Annals, No. xii, i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Oct. i860 In a very swampy district on the right bank of the Jumna numerous cases of lameness occurred. The patients averred they had all become paralytic during the rains, in most cases suddenly so, and in manyUKl-OUT ON 1-KACTICAL MEDICINE. I6fi during- tho night. There was no fever nor splenic enlargement. The cause was believed to be the use as food of the herb " lathyrus sativug." Cootk.—Observations on a Case of perforating Tumours of the Dura Mater. Load. Med. Rev., Jnly, Aug. Cootc states that fibroplastic tumours of the dura mater perforate the skull in a wholly different manner from that observed hi cases of medullary cancer. The former cause absorption of the bone by con- tinued pressure alone; the margin of the perforation is smooth, and hardened by a deposit of new bone, and the dura mater from which the tumours grow hi some spots becomes absorbed. In the latter, the absorption of the bone is effected, not by pressure but by substitution of the cancerous elements for those of bone; the bone surrounding the perforation is not condensed, but softened, broken down, and some- times in a stato of ulceration and suppuration, and the ring of bone surrounding the aperture is not smooth, but rough and uneven through the presence of bony spicule, which lie in and around the protruding tumour. Hill.— Cases of Tubercular Meningitis, ivith Remarks. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 27th. Hill records three cases of tubercular meningitis occurring in phthisical patients. He notices the uncertainty of the premonitory symptoms, and remarks that the only deduction that can be made is, that continued headache with some febrile symptoms in a phthisical patient, when it can be traced to no other known cause, is strong presumptive evidence of impending tubercular meningitis. Lussana. On Brachial Neuralgia. (Prize Essay, Milan.) Schmidt's Jahrb., Bd. 108, p. 168. Lussana recognises ten principal anatomical sites of brachial neural- gia, viz., in the ulnar, internal cutaneous, median, radial, chcumflex, and musculo-cutaneous nerves, in the trunk common to the ulnar and internal cutaneous, and in the three fasciculi of the brachial plexus. He does not, however, think that muscular nerves can be the seat of neuralgia, and consequently admits only eight varieties of brachial neuralgia. Under the head of symptoms, Lussana describes minutely the terminal painful points, the superficial, and the intermediate painful track (via dolorosa). The superficial painful points are the giving off of a nerve from its trunk, where it perforates a muscle or turns round a cylindrical bone, and where it is sub-cutaneous. Of the latter he mentions an axillary, a median-brachial, a supra-cubital, an epitrochlear, a styloid, and a coronoid. In its direction the pain may be centripetal or centrifugal; in the latter case it is continuous, and without any elevation of tem- perature. The pain is, as a rule, increased by pressure, and, except in the case of the internal cutan. N., by motion. With regard to the tempe- rature of the affected parts, Lussana finds it objectively or subjective y increased in neuralgias of cutaneous and sensitive nerves; objectively or subjectively lowered in neuralgia} of nerves that are chiefly motor. More or less muscular affections arc present in all cases, except that of the internal cutan. N. The muscles may be contracted, convulsed, or even paralysed. Pyrexia is rare, nausea and gastric disorders areNERVOUS SYSTEM. 1G7 occasionally present, or even delirium. The type is usually more or less markedly intermittent. rThe differential diagnosis is stated between essential brachial neuralgia and neuritis, rheumatic contraction, articular and muscular rheumatism, neuroma, organic neuralgia (from injuries), angina pectoris, and neuralgias, occurring symptomatically with diseases of the heart and large vessels, disease of the cord and vertebral column, disease of the liver, with syphilis and lead poisoning. In the matter of treatment he notices bloodletting, purgatives, baths, and poultices, anti-rheumatics, quinine and arsenic, narcotics, potass, iod., revulsives, flannel, acu- and electro-puncture, and section of the nerve. Quinine, he says, was almost always ineffectual. He seems to rely most on belladonna, used locally either by gentle inunction, endermically, or sub-cutaneously, and also internally in obstinate cases. Demme.—Contributions to the Pathological Anatomy of Tetanus. Leipsig, Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 25, Vol. hi, p. 23. Demme found in four cases of tetanus the white substance of the spinal cord protuberant on section, and the vessels in a state of hypersemia and distension. The connective tissue in the white substance was increased, and the grey matter compressed. Demme supports Rokitansky's views as to the concernment of undue growth of the connective tissue in various morbid states. Thus, in the spinal cord it may induce general paralysis, tabes dorsahs, and progressive muscular atrophy ; in the cortical matter of the brain it produces paralytic idiocy; in the medullary matter it causes hypertrophy, or when great retraction takes place, senile or one-sided atrophy; in the medulla oblongata it produces disorders of articulation, and of deglutition, or epilepsy; it also appears to be con- cerned in the changes occurring in Spedalsked and Pellagra in the cord, and in those which affect the retina in M. Brighth. The morbid growth is at first a soft, finely fluid gTanulous mass, beset with nuclei; subse- quently it becomes more solid, and assumes the character of a dense fibrous felt. Demme thinks that the pot. iod. is more likely to be useful in tetanus than any other remedy. Hackee.—On the Pathological Anatomy of the Choroid Plexus. Vir- chow's Archiv. xvi, 3 and 4. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 16. Hiickel describes the morbid changes occurring in the vessels, connec- tive tissue, and epithelium of the choroid plexus. The connective tissue may undergo (I.) Regressive metamorphosis, as fatty, pigmentary, cal- careous, or amyloid degeneration, softening and induration;—(II.) Pro- gressive metamorphosis, as hypertrophy, fat-development, and proliferous cystoid growth. Hypertrophy may show itself in the form of little hard granulations like the pacchionian, or of soft, translucent or reddish masses of varying size, resembling the structure of Collonema-colloid. Stein.—On the Pigment in the Cerebral Vessels. Virchow's Archiv., Vol. xvi, p. 564. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 25. Stein from his examinations of sixty-two cases is led to connect deposition of yellow pigment in the coats of the cerebral vessels, with a tendency to vascular rupture and extravasation of blood.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 108 Virciiow.—On Multiple Melanotic Sarcomata of the Pia Mater. Vireh. Arehiv., Vol. 16. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 31. Virciiow records a remarkable case of multiple melanotic sarcomata in the pia mater of the brain and spinal cord of a man who died after repeated attacks of lead colic, partially paralysed, and almost quite blind. The deposits were most considerable at the base of the brain and posterior surface of the cord. They proceeded from increase of the connective tissue cells, which were often arranged in a fasciculate manner. The cells were sometimes devoid of pigment. In the eyes and in otber parts of the body there was 110 similar change. Virciiow regards the process as a hyperplasia of a pre-existing tissue normally disposed to develop pigment. D. Brunet.—Researches on the new Membranes and Cysts of the Arachnoid. Paris, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 4. Brunet considers that new membranes are formed from an exuded blastema, that they are organized, and possess numerous remarkably large vessels, while pseudo-membranes consist only of layers of coagu- lated fibrine, show no trace of organization, and are devoid of vessels. He believes that the former are produced by a slight degree of inflam- mation, the latter by a more intense. The smaller formations, not exceeding £ths of an inch in diameter, he calls neo-membranes, all larger he denominates cysts. Both occur chiefly in the insane, much oftener in the male than in the female sex, and in children spread over a more extensive surface than in adults. In the neo-membranes are found fat granules, epithelial cells, red and white blood globules, fibrine. The liEematine separates after a time in the form of round or polyedric granules, single or in groups. The heeniatine often gives to thick old membranes a rusty colour. The cysts contain blood variously altered, mingled with more or less serum. Calcareous deposits have been found in the walls of the cysts. Brown-Sequard.—Lectures on the Diagnosis and Treatment of the principal Forms of Paralysis of the Loiver Extremities. Lancet, April 21, 28; May 5, 26; June 9, 23; July 14; Aug. 18; Sept. 8; Oct. 20; Nov. 10; Dec. 22. Brown-Sequard endeavours to establish the following propositions:— j st. That a paralysis of the lower limbs may be caused by an alteration in the periphery or the trunk of the various sensitive nerves. 2nd. That this kind of paralysis differs extremely from the other kinds of para- plegia by many symptoms, and by the frequency and rapidity of cure. The characteristics of reflex paralysis, whether in the lower limbs or elsewhere are, that there is an " outside excitation, starting from some sensitive nerve," which precedes the paralysis, often determines by its variations correspondingchanges in the paralysis, andwith whose cessation the paraplegia often disappears, which treatment is unavailing as long as it persists; post-mortem examination shows also the absence of organic disease. In a table he gives a concise comparative view of the principal features of paraplegia from disease of the urinary organs fa reflex paralysis), and of paraplegia from myelitis. A considerable number of cases arc cited, from his own experience and that of variousNEKVOUS SYSTEM. 1G9 authors, proving* that paraplegia may be produced by uterine disease, urethral l>v vesical inflammation, prostatic disease, nephritis* enteritis, cutaneous irritation, disease of the knee, diphtheria, &c. In some cases the paraplegia appeared and disappeared altogether twice or many more times, in accordance with the production or cessation of the out- side irritation. Brown-Sequard considers the various objections which may be made against his view; as, that in some cases the paraplegia may depend on pressure exercised by an enlarged uterus ; that absorp- tion of altered urinary constituents may cause paralysis; that in cases of teething, enteritis, diphtheria, &c, the cause of the palsy may be a blood disease set up by the disturbance of digestion or respiration, or that the affection may be rheumatic if cold and wet appears to have been the exciting- cause. He allows that in a few cases the above objections may be just, but maintains that they are quite invalid for the great majority. He next shows how an external or distant irritation may produce paraplegia (i) by reflex contraction of blood-vessels; (2) by a morbid reflex influence upon nutrition. He lays stress on the importance of distinguishing reflex paraplegia in which the spinal cord is in a state of anaemia from paraplegia depending on congestion or inflammatory action. The remedies which are appropriate to the former as increasing the quantity of blood in the cord (strychnine and brucine) would be injurious, of course, in the latter, and vice versa. After remarking upon Dr. Gull's views, who holds that a myelitis exists in most, if not all, cases of urinary paraplegia, Brown-Sequard states that usually in reflex paraplegia muscles do not become atrophied, or lose their irritability. When exceptions are found, he believes that the wasting is dependent on a morbid action of the nervous system, not on mere withdrawal of nervous influence. He then gives the diagnostic signs between reflex paraplegia and that depending on myelitis, menin- gitis, the pressure of tumours in or adjoining the cord, seminal losses, hysteria, haemorrhage in the spinal canal or in the cord itself, congestion of the cord, disease of its vessels, serous effusion in the spinal canal, &c. In the matter of treatment he recommends narcotics to diminish the morbid influence of the nerve whence the irritation proceeds upon the spinal cord; revulsives to produce by a secondary exhaustion dilatation of the blood-vessels of the cord, a dependent position of the spine, special stimulants to the spinal centre, and nourishing food. The nar- cotics he prefers arc belladonna combined with opium, e. g., Extr. Bellad., gr. i; Tr. Opii, m. xx, as an injection in urethral or prostatic paraplegia. This injection is to be retained half an horn- or one hour, and its remains then washed away. It is to be repeated every two or three days. Strychnine is the only remedy which has the property of increas- ing the vital power of the spinal cord; it does this partly by a direct action, partly by increasing the supply of blood to it. When used with opium the dose is to be ^th or ^th grain ; when alone JLth ; when given with belladonna the dose is to be larger. Baths of sulphuret of potassium are also useful. Alternate applications of cold and heat to the spine are also to be employed with the view of improving its nutrition. In Lecture III, Brown-Sequard describes the symptoms and treatment of myelitis, spinal meningitis, and congestion of the spinal meninges, conditions which are the reverse of reflex paraplegia in170 EEPOET ON ritACTIOAL MEDICINE. regard of tho supply of blood. He compares the phenomena in these three diseased states as exhibited by the motor, sensory, and vaso- motor nerves. In myelitis the number of motor conductors affected is much larger, and also tho degree of excitation is greater than in spinal congestion and meningitis, so that both the degree of paralysis and the frequency of cramps arc greater in the first than in the last two affections. In these again, when not complicated witli myelitis, tho referring of sensations to the skin and other parts is almost null. In myelitis there is a great variety of sensations referred to paralysed parts. In cases of spinal congestion and meningitis the signs of an excitation of tho vaso-motor nerves are less marked than in myelitis. The treatment of myelitis (chronic) is that of reducing hyperoemia by various means, as (i) position; (2) derivatives to the surface ; (3) drags which contract the blood-vessels, as belladonna and ergot of rye. The patient should never lie on Ins back. The hot douche and dry cupping are of much use. Blisters, moxas, cauteries, are to be employed when there is caries or other organic affection of the bones. Iodide of potas- sium may be given if symptoms of meningitis are present, and in cases of chronic meningitis is to be preferred to belladonna and ergot. Bed- sores may be prevented or stopped by alternate applications of cold and heat, a bladder of ice for ten minutes, followed by a poultice for an hour, The paralysed limbs should be shampooed and galvanized. In Lecture IV the symptoms of white softening of the spinal cord are described, and those of haemorrhage in the grey matter. In the former there is gradual and increasing weakness, diminution of sensibility, and loss of power over the sphincters. There are no cramps, no pain in the spine or paralysed parts. The urine is very rarely altered. In the latter the paraplegia is sudden, and there is loss of sensibility from the first; pain is felt at the site of the haemorrhage, and in the parts of the body supplied by nerves given off from the vicinity of the part of the cord affected by the haemorrhage, the sphincters are almost completely paralysed from the first. Inflammation often supervenes, and produces the symptoms of myelitis. If the blood is effused outside the cord pain is felt iu a greater extent of the spine, and tetanic convidsions arc not rare. In both the above cases the prognosis depends chiefly on the extent and degree of the paralysis. In white softening, Pot. Iod. with Ammon. Carb. aa gr. v; iron, tinct. cinchonae, strychnine, the cold douche, the supine position at night, and generous diet, are recommended. In haemorrhage, strychnine is to be avoided, and all causes which may produce congestion of the cord. With regard to tumours, the symptoms they produce vary according to their situation, also according to tho degree of irritation and the nerves that are irritated. There is usually also pabi, increased by pressure, at the part of the spine where the tumour is situated. In the course of the disease myelitis, and some- times meningitis, occur. Myelitis is indicated by formication or prick- ing in the paralysed limbs with spasmodic movements or great rigidity, alkaline urine, sloughs on the nates, and sensation of a cord tied round the body or paralysed limbs. In meningitis there is rapid increase of the paralysis, acute pain on any movement of the spine or lower limbs, and spasmodic rigidity of the muscles of the back. In some cases of tumour hi or upon the cord, epileptiform convulsious, or real epileptic171 NEKV0US SYSTEM. fits occur. In Lecture IV a table is given showing the much greater prevalence of paraplegia from various causes in men than in women, hi the ratio of 107 : 37. Myelitis, non-inflammatory softening, or reflex paralysis are in the named order the most frequent causative conditions. As to age, reflex paraplegia is most frequent in children, myelitis in adults, and aon-inflainmatory softening hi the aged. The author then goes seriatim through the various symptoms observed in paraplegia, and shows to what form of paralysis each is attached specially, and what is its cause. The lecture concludes with a review of the principal remedies, and the states to which they are appropriate. Reynolds.—On Diphtheritic Paralysis. Brit. Med. J., Aug. 18th. Reynolds says, " there is a certain general course through which the paralysis rims, from that but shghtly marked up to that which results hi death. It always begins in the soft palate, either by numbness, loss of power of one-half or of the whole em'tain; next amaurosis or stra- bismus, if the eyes are at all affected, always follows after paralysis of the palate, and before the extremities become involved. Deafness may follow amaurosis, then the lower limbs become affected, next the upper extremities, then the muscles of the alimentary canal and bladder, the respiratory muscles, and, in some very rare cases, the muscles of the heart." Sometimes there is only paralysis of sensation, or this pre- dominates. The prognosis is favorable,—9 deaths occurred among 77 cases. Of these, 2 were caused by food entering the larynx, 1 from convulsions, 1 from renal disease, 1 from starvation, 4 from nervous asthenia and syncope. Treatment is to be invigorating: sulphur baths, galvanism, frictions to the spine, and strychnine have all been found usefid. Leviseur.—Peculiar Disorder of the Faculty of Speaking and Writing. Pr. Ver. Ztg. N. P. ii, 3, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, P- 39- Leviseur records 3 cases in which the faculty of pronouncing and writing words correctly was temporarily lost. He regards it as a neurosis of motion, a " vertigo literalis," in which letters, syllables, and words are confused, and become perplexed, like objects in ordinary giddiness. Russell.—Opium, its Use and Abuse. Brit. Med. J., April 28, May 5. Russell illustrates the beneficial effects of opium, and adverts also to the cases where it fails to procure sleep, or is actually injurious. He specially mentions its sedative action upon the heart, which has some- 1 ink's, even when the dose was moderate, produced death. In delirium tremens, and in cases of great debility and cardiac degeneration, opium sometimes entirely fails to calm, and may prove injurious. In the earlier period of fever there may be considerable resistance to the soporific effect of opium; while in the later, even a small dose may produce dangerous narcotism. . Wade.—On the Pathology of Lead Colic. Brit. Med. J., May 19. Wade adopts and argues in favour of Briquet's view, viz., that theRRPOBT ON I'liACTIOAL MEDICINK. 172 symptoms in lead colic arc referable to cramp of the external abdominal muscles, and not to any affection of the intestines. lie explains the constipation of the disease by the contraction of the sphincter ani, and the inability of the diaphragm to descend and induce, pressure on the rectum in consequence of the firm contraction of the abdominal parietes. Fronmui.ler.—Indian Hemp, its Sojiorific Properly. Prag. Viertel- jahrschr. Lxv, p. 102, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 160. Fronmuller, as the result of prolonged experience, recommends Indian hemp as the best narcotic we possess for procuring natural sleep. The lowest dose is 8 grains. (?) It has no prejudicial after- effects. Collongues.—Of Dynamoscopy in Cerebral Hcemorrhage. Gaz. des H6pit.j Nos. 34, 37, 40, 117. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 10. Collongues affirms that in the healthy condition certain murmurs, humroings, and cracklings are heard on the surface of the body, and especially in the tips of the fingers, which undergo variations in different diseases. In apoplectic cases the murmurs in the ringers diminish, intermit, and vanish in accordance with the violence of the attack, Avhile on the cranium they become stronger, and are variously altered on the rest of the' surface of the body. Collongues believes that observation of these murmurs will assist in diagnosis and prog- nosis. Teissier.—On the slow Form of Cerebral Ramollissement, and its Treat- ment by Tonic Measures. Gaz. Med. de Lyons, Jan. 16th. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 13. Teissier g'ives a very full and valuable account of this disease, in- cluding the symptoms, morbid anatomy, causes, pathology, diagnosis, and treatment. The causes he enumerates are vexation on account of disappointed ambition, or losses at play, political agitation, abuse of the enjoyments of life, venereal excesses, inveterate syphilis, specific cures too long carried on, fatiguing intellectual tasks, abuse of certain alcoholic beverages, especially of absynth-brandy, and excessive tobacco-smoking. Wounded vanity seems to be one of the most potent injurious influences. Under the head of pathology, Teissier rejects entirely sthenic inflammation as the essence of the disease, winch he believes to consist in weakened vitality of the brain tissue, and consequent defective nutrition and decay. A specific dyscrasia as syphilis may conditionate the malnutrition. Hyperaemia and extrava- sation may occur as a complication, or secondary change. The treat- ment must be mainly tonic; occasional attacks of congestion may, however, be met by some leeches to the anus and purgatives. Oppolzer.—The Diseases of the Spinal Cord and of its Envelopes. Spital. Ztg. No. 21. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 17. Oppolzer states that tabes dors.' is caused by a growth of gelatinoid connective tissue which compresses and atrophies the ncrve-cclls and fibres.173 XEItVOUS SYSTEM. Kohtjer. Six Cases of Disease of the Spinal Cord, with Autopsies. Deutsche Klinik., 'No. 9—16. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 17. Kohler argues against Rokitansky's view of the pathology of tabes dorsalis, which is similar to Oppolzer's, and maintains, with Sachtlebcn and Frank, that it is the result of a slow inflammation. He has seen yellow softening in 2 out of 10 cases in the cervical part of the cord, which he regards as an exacerbation of the more chronic morbid action. Traces of inflammation of the membranes are constant. "Venous plethora of the abdominal and thoracic viscera is a predisposing cause. Weissiaxx.—On New Formation of Nerves in a Neuroma. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 18. The most important circumstance observed by Weismann was, that the tumour was made up of new nerve fibres, not springing from the old ones by subdivision, but developing themselves out of fusiform nuclei arranged in rows. Only a few of these new nerve fibres could have had any communication with the brain. L. Turck:.—On Degeneration of separate Columns of the Spinal Cord, developing itself without Primary Disease of the Brain or Cord. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 19. Turck's cases were 12—8 males and 4 females. The disease ap- peared first from the age of 22 to 58, and its duration varied from 1 to 8 years. The affected part was of fusiform shape, tapering above and below. The site of the chief amount of morbid change was about the lower dorsal or upper lumbar vertebrae. Superiorly, the disease extended sometimes even to the pons varolii and crura cerebri. In most of the cases there was no notable wasting of the cord as viewed externally. Microscopic examination, however, revealed more or less destruction of the nerve fibres, and numerous glomeruli. The nerve cells were not destroyed. The degeneration was always symmetrical, even when the lateral columns were affected. In 6 cases the roots of the nerves were carefully examined, and the result was, that they were generally affected, together with the corresponding-, column; though neither the age nor the intensity of the degeneration of the cord, nor the existence, nor absence, nor special seat of a previous meningitis seemed to have any constant influence in producing change in them. The symptoms of paralysis, pains, formication, anaesthesia, &c, were by no means completely accounted for by the morbid changes. Turck is inclined to think that there must have been other alterations in the minute structure besides those discovered. Turck lays down the following points of distinction between primary and secondary degeneration. (1) The latter commences from a more extensive focus of disease in the brain or cord. (2) The latter spreads upwards in the posterior columns, downwards in the anterior; the former spreads both ways in both columns. (3) Induration and gelatinous softening is absent or rare in the latter. (4) In secondary degeneration the process is limited to the affected columns, and (5) is rarely combined with exudation from the pia mater; the reverse holds true of primary inREPORT ON riUCTICAL MEDICINE. 171 both particulars. (6) (7) Turck supposes tliat secondary dcgonera- tion produces no morbid symptoms. II. Demme.—Contributions to the Pathological Anatomy of Tetanus, and, other Diseases of the Nervous System. Canst. Jalirb., Vol. iii, p. 19. Demme has laboriously tested tlie accuracy of Rokitansky's views by original research, and confirmed them. The report contains a good summary of Kokitansky's and Dcmme's views, which have been already noticed, v. p. 167, and also the following observations by Eisenmann. Disturbance of the function of a nerve or nervous centre inducing altered nutrition, causes hyperamua; and if this continues long, or returns often, it leads, as a rule, but not invariably, to a growth (morbid) of the interstitial connective tissue of the nervous centre, whereby the disease becomes established and destructive. This latter change is, of course, not the primary element of neuroses, but only an accessory. Burq.—On a New Diagnostic Sign, fyc. Gaz. des Hop., No. 33. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 19. Burq affirms the efficacy of appropriate metallic rings, gold, silver, iron, brass, &c, put round the limb in curing paralytic neuroses of motion or sensation, or chorea. Turck.—On the Nature of the Nervous Fluid. Gaz. Med. de Lyon, May 16. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 19. Turck reports some marvellous cases of cure of various diseases by compression of one carotid, very prolonged warm baths (36 hours many times repeated), and cutting the hair short. He has a theory about the identity of some fluid pervading the whole organism with electricity. F. Lussana.—A Monograph on Vertigo, and Researches on Nervous Phy- siology. Annali Univcrsali, 1858, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 27. Lussana places the seat of giddiness in the cerebellum, optic thalami, tuberc. quadrig, and auditory centre. He distinguishes 3 original kinds of giddiness; viz.: of seeing, hearing, and muscular. Each of these may occur alone, or they may be combined. With respect to its cause Lussana divides giddiness into external, which again may be objective, sensorial, or reflected; and into internal or central. The latter he subdivides into symptomatic, congestive, ancemic, organic, nervous, and narcotic. The diagnostic characters of organic giddiness are stated as (1) cliro- nicity; (2) preceding obstinate pain on one side of the head; (3) gradual increase ; (4) it is continuous ; (5) it is associated with ambly- opia, or amaurosis; (6) by intra cranial pressure, other brain symptoms may be produced, or (7) symptoms referable to the medulla oblongata ; (8) disorder of the sexual function; (9) it is incurable. F. Lussana.—Respecting Angina Pectoris (cardiac neuralgia). Gaz. Med. Ital. Lomb., 1858. Canst., Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 37. Lussana adopts Lartiguc's view that angina pectoris is a neuralgia of175 NERVOUS SYSTEM. the cordiac plexus, attended with cramp-like contraction of the muscular fibre of the heart. He cites three autopsies in which the heart was found more firmly contracted than after death from tetanus. HjjUON.—On Cystalgia and its Treatment, by potential Cauterization of the Eypogastrium. Union Medic. No. 81—113. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 41. Ilamon describes the pain in his cases (5 females with three relapses in one) as absent when the bladder was empty, increasing as the urine collects, and reaching its maximum when the stream of mine begins to flow. The sphincter is spasmodically contracted, as shown by attempting to introduce a catheter. The disease lasts for months, and at last becomes complicated with more or less paralysis of the bladder. Ilamon recommends superficial cauterization of the skin by nitric acid, and the repeated introduction of the catheter. C. Moynter.—On Chorea. (Journ. de Med. de Bruxelles, 1858, 1859). Canst., Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 48. Moynier shows (1) that the motor power of the muscles in the affected parts is impaired; (2) that the sensory power of the same is also enfeebled; (3) that the intellectual powers are weakened in propoi'tion to the intensity and duration of the disease; (4) in the same proportion anaemia is produced; (5) palpitation is frequent. Skoda.—Chorea. Clinique Europ., No. 7. Canst., Jahrb., Vol. iii, P- 57- Skoda relates a case of severe general chorea cured in five days by the free administration of tartar emetic and cold douches to the head. He opines that an exudation iu the spinal chord, or in the brain is the immediate cause of chorea, softening of the septum lucid, and fornix is found at least in some cases. Ign. Betoli.—Communicalilily of Tetanus from Animals to Men. Annali Univ., 1859, p. 98. Canst., Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 57. Betoli asserts that tetanus prevails epidemically, affecting both animals and human beings, iu the Brazils. He gives a doubtful case of its communication by eating the flesh of an ox who died with the disease. In the way of treatment Betoli relies upon wine exhibited freely with spirituous camphor enemata and an occasional castor-oil and sulphur aperient. General frictions to the surface arc also useful; they should be especially applied to the central point from whence the con- vulsions radiate. This central point in cases of traumatic tetanus, rarely coincides with the wound. Yki.la, Manec, Harley, Sayre, Gentrac, Ciiassaigxac, and Skwixl, record cases in which curare was tried on animals or man as a remedy for tetanus. A successful result was obtained in two out of live men, none of the animals recovered though the spasms were arrested in two out of three.—Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 62.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIXE. 178 Cris. Zuradei.ei. The tallies of the Madid Nerve, resulting from Rheu- matism and Injury. Gazz. Med. ltal. LomL, 1858, No. 44—47. Canst., Jalirb., Vol. iii, p. 75. Zuradelli gives a full account of the predisposing and determining causes, the three forms (neuralgic, sudden, and mixed), the symptom,^ diagnosis, prognosis, duration, termination, complications, and treatment of the rheumatic disease. The chief remedial means in well-marked cases arc vesicants, sulphur baths, and electricity. The disease lias no tendency to get well spontaneously, it is more difficult of cure the longer it has lasted. The paralysis is of sensation as well as of motion in the majority of cases, in others there are neuralgic pains with nocturnal exacerbation, or formication, or other dysaesthesiaj. The disease in bad cases extends to the median and ulnar nerves. Zuradelli.—Of Palsy of the Spinal Muscles. Gazz. Mod. Ital. Lomb., No. 18—21. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 77. The disease in question is peculiar to males, and appears to be induced by occupations in which the spinal muscles are severely tasked. Insolation, injuries to the spinal column, as well as lumbago {i.e. rheu- matism.), seem also to have some influence in occasioning it. Its course is slow, especially at first, when it is fully developed the patients are confined to bed. The disease occurs sometimes idiopathically, more often it is symptomatic of some disease of the spinal cord, or vertebra?. In the way of treatment Zuradelli recommends local bloodletting at first, issues, strychnine, internally and externally, and electricity. Luts.—Epilepsy (case). Jour, du Progres, No. 11. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 81. Luys case was one of epilepsy from tubercles in the vicinity of the roots of the fifth nerve. Brown-Sequard remarks a propos of this case that cerebral tumours almost always produce epilepsy if they are in contact with the dura mater, otherwise they do not. Bongard.—Some Considerations respecting Epilepsy. Jour, de Med. de Bruxelles, March, April. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 81. Bongard has treated sixteen patients by induced electricity, four of these were cured, ten improved, and in two no benefit was obtained. Some of the improved are still under treatment, and may still be cured. Schroder v. der Kolk, Dejime, and Brows-Sequard are all in favour of counter-irritants applied to the neck in epilepsy, as sctons, issues, and even the actual cautery.—Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 91. Voisra.—Of Hysterical Cutaneous Anesthesia. Gaz. JJebdom. 1858, No. 48. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 93. Voisin states that hysterical anaesthesia very rarely occurs except after a violent convulsive attack attended with loss of consciousness. Among fifteen such cases anesthesia was found in eleven, the others were examined too late. Voisin thinks that the loss of consciousness stands in a causal relation to the anesthesia. He confirms Beau'sNERVOUS SYSTEM. 177 statement that analgesia is the commencement of anaesthesia. Loss of the sense of contact and of temperature belong to the more advanced degrees of anajsthesia. Briquet reporting on this paper states that of 221 anaesthetic women only 160 had had convulsive attacks. Klstegho.—Essay on the so-called Hysterical Paraplegias. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 93. Rustegho reports five cases, in one of which all the four limbs had been set for four months in a state of stiff contraction and extension, and were e x (remely sensitive to contact. Convulsive attacks with loss of con- sciousness occurred every two days. A cure was obtained by full doses of opium. The muscles in these cases do not waste or lose their electric contractibiiity for a long time. Virchow and Bergson each describe a case of local atrophy, affecting in one the left side of the face, in the other also the left half of the tongue and uvula. Virchow regards these cases as neurotic atrophies, although the sensory and motor nerves retained then- functional powers. Bergson is inclined to think the arteries more at fault.—Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 100. PSYCHIATRIK. Forbes AVinsi.OW.—On Obscure Diseases of the Brain and Disorders of the Mind; their Incipient Symptoms, Pathology, Diagnosis, Treat- ment, and Prophylaxis. Churchill, p. 721. Fourteenth Beport of the Commissioners in Lunacy to the Lord Chan- cellor. Second Annual Beport of the General Board of Commissioners in Lunacy for Scotland. Busiinan.—Beligious Bevivals in relation to Nervous and Mental Diseases, p. 46. Churchill, w est.—Seventh Annual Beport of the Omaqh District Hospital for the Insane, p. 36. LINDSAY.—Thirty-third Annual Beport of the Perthshire Lunatic Asylum. Sidey—Perth, pp. 103. Alois.—The power of Individuals to prevent Melancholy in themselves. Churchill. A. Krauss.—The mind in insanity. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 10 c p. 221. ■" Baillaxger.—On the communicalility of Insanity. Edin. Med. J., May p. 1043, i860. ' Kirkbride, T.—A brief account of the Pennsylvania Hospital for the Insane, at Philadelphia, with a description of the new Buildinqs Americ. J. of Med. Sciences, April, i860, p. 305. 12178 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Reports of g American Institutions for the Insane. Amcrie. J. (if Med. Sciences, April, i860, p. 453. Ckiciiton Browne.—Psychical Diseases of Early Life. J. of Mental Science, April, p. 284. Gaskell, S.—On the want of letter provision for the labouring and middle classes when attached or threatened with Insanity. J. of Mental Science, April, p. 321. On Habits of Intoxication as causing a Type of Disease. J. of Psychological Medicine, April, p. 125. Iieview of " Report of the Lunatic Asylums of Holland" (contains much of interest in the way of treatment). Brit, and For. Med.- Ch. Rev., Jan. i860. Nervousness. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, April, p. 218. Modem Magicians and Mcdiomaniacs. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, April, p. 246. Marce.—One form of Hypochondriacal Delirium occurring consecutive to Dyspepsia, and characterized by refusal of food. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, April, p. 264. Ann. Med. Psychol., Jan., i860. Hinds. Narcotics in Incipient Insanity. Brit. Med. J., June 16th. Berthier.—Melancholia produced by a latent Pregnancy, and terminating by Abortion occurring without the knowledge of the mother. Gaz. de Lyon, 5, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb.," Vol. 106, p. 338. Parigot.—On the Reform of Lunatic Asylums. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, July, i860. Arlidge.—Notes on the Asylums of Italy, France, and Germany. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, July. The state of Lunacy in Scotland. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, July, i860. Conolly.—Recollections of the Varieties of Insanity—Part I. The Hanwell Asylum. Med. Times and Gazette. Jan. 7th, Feb. 4th, March 3rd, April 7th, May 12th, June 2nd, July 7th, Aug. 4th, Sept. 1st, Oct. 6th, Nov. 3rd, Dec. 1st. Braidism.—Journal of Psychological Medicine, Oct. i860. The state of Lunacy in England. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, Oct. Dunglison.—Statistics of Insanity in the United States of America. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, Oct., N. Amer. Med. Ch. Rev., July, i860. Parigot.—On the Management of the Insane in Belgium. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, Oct. Roell.—Statistical and Clinical Communications from the Asylum for the Insane, at Dordrecht. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 235. RusSell.—Illustrations of Disease produced by Mental infuence. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 3rd, 10th. Baillarger.—Hypochondriacal Insanity as a precursor of General Parah/sis. Gaz. des ITopit., Sept. 1860. Edin. Med. J., Dec. Brierre de Boismont.—Perversion of the Mental and Bodily Faculties as premonitory symptoms of General Paralysis. Gaz. de Hopit., Oct, i860. Edin. Med. J., Dec. Reports of American Institutions for the Insane. Amer. Q. J. of Mod. Science, Oct., i860, p. 486. Report on the Condition of the Insane in Holland, from 1851—1856. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 235.rSVCIIIATItlK. 179 Devergie, Haixer, Wachsmuth.—On Psycliiatrik in its Legal Relations. Bull, de l'Acad. xxiv, March; Ann. d'Hyg. 2 Scr. xi, April, 1859. Wien. Ztschr. N. F. ii, 35, 36, 1859. Henke's Ztschr. xl, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 242. Hysteria in connection with Religious Revivals. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, Jan., i860. The writer defines hysteria as a morbid condition produced by some emotion which is denied outlet through its natural channels of activity. The force thus engendered accumulates till it overcomes all resistance, active or passive, and culminates in the production of a paroxysm, or hysteric fit. In the case of an emotion suddenly aroused and rapidly culminating, the muscular movements are usually succeeded before long by active secretion, either renal or lachrymal, and the paroxysm is brought to a speedy close. In cases of an opposite kind, when the paroxysm follows intense or protracted contemplation the same degree of relief is not afforded, and the physical phenomena, when they have moderated an excessive or unbearable degree of tension, are commonly followed by some form of somnambulism. Those which have most bearing on our^present purpose are trance and ecstasy. The former is characterised by torpor as far as regards all impressions conveyed through the organs of sense; while, at the same time, the sensorium is cognisant of a train of ideas, or dream, suggested by the active emotion, and coincident with the habitual course of contempla- tion concerning it. In ecstasy these conditions are slightly modified, so that the sensorium is percipient of impressions from without, if they harmonise with, or are even associated with the dominant feeling. There is also some degree of co-ordinate reaction upon the muscular system ; so that the course of the dream is indicated, more or less, by appropriate speech and gesture; and the influence exerted upon it by suggestion can be readily observed and demonstrated. The immediate termination of these states, convulsive or somnambulistic is necessarily in a period of weakness, and exhaustion commensurate with the nervous force put forth; and to be recovered from (if at all) only by the gradual operation of circumstances favorable to strength of body and repose of mind. Their ultimate tendency is to place both the will, and the physical organism under the government of the emotions; and so to degrade humanity below the level of the brutes that perish. The writer then traces the coincidence between this account and recent actual occurrences. Auzour.—Lesions of the Cutaneous Sensibility among the Insane. J. of Psycholog. Medicine, Jan., i860. Auzouy has studied the lesions of the cutaneous sensibility met with among the insane. Among 600 patients he found more than half affected with various degrees of analgesia. This state as shown by M. Beau may exist without tactile anajsthesia, but the latter of course involves the former. M. Michea has constate the existence of analo-csia in the case of most persons afflicted with melancholia, and notably soREPOBT OX PnACTICAI, MEDICIXE. ISO amongst fcb.086 suffering from religious and suicidal lypemania. Phy- sical insensibility manifests itself sometimes in a transitory form, and exists only during the continuance of the paroxysms in certain maniacal fits. Among the remedial means which M. Auzouy has used with advantage he mentions cold affusions, frictions, with stimulating appli- cations, or with congealed snow, muscular exercise and manual labour, urtication, ^etherization carried as far as the period of excitement only, and electro-magnetism. Of authorization he speaks very favorably, and also of electricity. The latter waB tried on various classes of patients, with the view of testing the degree of analgesia in each. Out of seven cretins four showed no sensibility to the current, two had very little, in one the sensibility was nearly normal. Out of 18 idiots in four the skin was quite insensible, in 7 there were traces of obtuse sensibility, in 5 the sensibility was normal, and in 2 excessive, of 32 imbeciles 5 were wholly insensible, 18 had obtuse sensibility, 7 normal, 2 excessive. Of seventeen melancholies in seven the cutaneous sensibility was quasi- normal, in four it was diminished, and in six it was wholly lost. Their muscular contractions were always energetic. In thirteen monomaniacs there were six cases of well-marked analgesia. In almost all the others the cutaneous sensibility was more or less diminished; in three a temporary improvement was effected iri, the mental condition, and a similar result, or even more favorable, has been obtained with some lypemaniacs. Of thirty-five maniacs none were benefited; in several, at least, the sensibility seems to have been nearly normal. M. Auzouy believes that electricity is a precious means of exploring the mental state of the insane, inasmuch as its influence is in direct ratio of the exterior sensibility, and intellectual development of the subject, what- ever be besides the particular type of his madness. He thinks it useful also as a therapeutical agent in cases of depression, and as a means of detecting malingerers. Needham.—On Acute Mania. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 14th. Needham has some remarks on acute mania, which he divides into the following groups of cases: sthenic, asthenic, and sub-acute per- sistent. After sketching the symptoms he describes the treatment he has found most efficacious. In the sthenic cases leeches to the head, purging with calomel and croton oil, and tartar emetic in 1 grain doses 3tiis horis until the bowels are freely acted upon; after tliis a full opiate at bed-time. He considers the purging action of the antimony essential, and eschews producing nausea. In asthenic cases he uses, after aperients and warm bathing, opium combined with diffusable stimulants. Forced exercise, as walking, he finds beneficial in equal- ising the circulation and producing weariness. In the sub-acute persistent no treatment seems to be of much avail, and Mr. Needham believes there is commonly organic, cerebral, or, at all events, visceral change. Death ensues by gradual exhaustion, or by a paralytic seizure. Jakvis.—On the Causes of Mental Diseases. J. of Mental Sc., Jan., i860. Jarvis writing on the causes of mental disease Btates that among181 rSVCHIATRIK. 12,838 patients (in America) the causes of whose insanity are stated, 22^ per cent, were connected with grief, disappointment, and other depressing emotions; 8*2 with excitements, anxieties, and depressions from religion, 6-9 with property, poverty, and business, and then- attendant anxieties, excitements, and losses; and 5-6 per cent, from excess of mental action. He points out at length, and with copious illustration, how all excessive labour of every land impairs and wastes the strength, and renders the system more prone to disorder. Who- ever allows in himself any excessive expenditure or misappropriation of mental force, or any indulgence in passion, caprice, oddity, impulse, or perversity, and takes but a single step from the path of discipline, propriety, or reason finds his downward progress progressively facili- tated, and the possibility of return more difficult. H. Tuke.—On General Paralysis. J. of Mental Sc., Jan., i860. In continuation of his paper on general paralysis Tuke remarks on the failure of articulation, which is one of the characteristic symptoms of the disease. He points out how to distinguish it from a similar affection recurring in lead poisoning, cerebral congestion, organic disease of the brain. Relative to the peculiar expression of the face, he says, " even in a very early stage there is a marked look of indifference, frequently accompanied with drooping of the upper, and infiltration of the lower eyelids." There is a heavy and sensuous expression about the mouth, a boyish appearance of face, the partially paralysed muscles no longer show the lines indicative of care, of sorrow, of ambition, or remorse. "At an early period after the accession of physical symptoms in paralytic insanity, a peculiar carriage of the head forms a veiy pro- minent feature. It is no longer unconsciously balanced upon the shoulders as in health; the patient seems to support it by a voluntary effort, and there is thus a rigidity of the neck induced, which is very characteristic of the disease." Calmeil.—The Relation of Alcoholism to Insanity. Gaz. des H6pit., 76, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 94. Calmeil states that out of 176 patients received into the hospital at Charenton in 1857, alchoholic excess was assigned as the principal cause of the insanity in 60. In 1858 there were 42 such cases out of 174. He distinguishes three phases of alcoholic poisoning. (1) An acute, in which the morbid influence is inseparable from the action of the cause, and therefore ceases along with it. Excitement and rage are the predominating mental affections. (2) A sub-acute which over- lasts the immediate action of the cause, and in which feelings of depression prevail. (3) A chronic which has already produced ana- tomical or functional disturbances in the central nervous system attended with the ordinary symptoms of the various forms of idiocy. Of the 102 cases above alluded to twelve suffered under a form of lypemania. In these hallucinations were the most frequent of the psychical symptoms, affecting the hearing twelve times, the sight eleven, the sense of feeling twice, that of taste once. They were always of a gloomy, melancholy kind. The physical symptoms consist in twitchings of the muscles of the face, tremblings of the hands andREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 182 arms, headache, giddiness, acid dyspepsia, and loss of sensibility of the extremities as far as the knee and elbow-joints. The treatment of acute cases consists in prolonged baths, bloodletting, small doses of opium, and purgatives ; grave cases have been relieved by cold affusions. In a table tho symptoms of, lypemania alcoholica with paralytic attacks are contrasted with those of general paralysis. Citella.—Case of Religious Melancholy. Gaz. Loinb. 6, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 96. Citella relates a case of religious melancholy with inclination to suicide, which recovered after a fall out of a window about forty feet from the ground. No serious injury was produced by the fall, which was the patient's own act. She was a married woman, set. 32, the mother of four children. Brierre de Boismont.—Statistics of the Asylums for the Insane in France, from 1842 to 1853, according to Legoyl, ike Head of this Department. L'Union 39, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 219. In the year 1835 the number of insane in France was stated at 10,539; in 1851 at 24,253; in 1854 at 24,524. Besides these it was estimated in 1851 that there were no less than 24,433 insane persons who were kept at home, or under private care. The whole total there- fore compared with that of the population gives a ratio of one insane person to every 787 inhabitants. Legoyt is, however, inclined to think that the increase is more apparent than real, and that it is chiefly owing to circumstances which have caused insanity to become more an object of consideration, care, and study. It appears from the report that the class of artizans produces in proportion eight times more insane than that of persons possessed of private property or rentiers. Taking the classes of jurists, clergymen, physicians, professors, and writers, it is found that there is among them, altogether, one insane to every 205, while for the population taken as a whole the proportion is one to 1294. The town population appears to be much more liable to insanity than the rural; but on this, again, Legoyt throws some doubt. The number of idiots in 1853, is stated at 2654; that of cretins at only 45 ; but the latter figure is certainly too low; in the department of " Basses Alpes" alone, the cretins have been estimated at 3000. The yearly average of deaths among the insane is 2675. The mortality of patients admitted into public and private asylums is veiy considerable for the first month, amounting to 108 per 1000. Brierre de Boismont does not ascribe this to the mental effect of the sudden change, and confine- ment, but to the fact that a large number of those who are sent to asylums are in an advanced stage of disease, and beyond all possibility of cure. Besides it often happens that delirious fever patients, or pneumonic, &c, are sent to asylums from a wrong diagnosis. Reports of Nine American Institutions for the Insane. Amer. J. of Med- Sc., Jan., i860. The report of the New York State Asylum includes the years marked by the financial panic and the great religious awakening. The former does not seem to have had any great effect in increasing the number ofrSYCIIIATKIK. 183 the insane, and the latter has mostly acted as an exciting cause by operating on " already prepared and smouldering elements of disease." Dr. Chapon, at the Kind's County Lunatic Asylum, lays much stress on the adulteration of alcoholic liquors as a cause of insanity, even among '.hose who are habitually temperate. The report of the Mount Hope Institution considers it to be a fallacy to object to lunatics being asso- ciated with lunatics, ff The delusions under which the insane labour, are sometimes corrected and dissipated by the sallies of wit and repartee of their fellow patients." The report from the Indiana Hospital remarks, " the effect of spiritualism upon the mind and body is almost irredeemably ruinous." The followers of this delusion (who are of all grades of intellect) exhaust in their " sittings the nervous system. The report of the Missouri Asylum strongly recommends proper indi- vidualised treatment, in other words, the influence of the sane mind acting beneficially on the insane. The peculiarities of each individual patient should be studied, and the moral treatment adapted to them. Skae.—Contributions to the Natural History of General Paralysis. Edin. Med. J., April, i860. Skae describes, at considerable length, the affection termed general paralysis, which he considers to be incurable. With respect to its pathology, he states that, in a very large proportion of cases, traces of chronic inflammatory action are found in the membranes of the brain, viz., thickening and milky opacity of the arachnoid membrane, gelatinous thickening of the pia mater, or serous effusion into the sub- arachnoid cellular tissue or pia mater. In old cases, the serous effusion is often very great, so as to cause shrinking of the cerebral convolu- tions—in short, a general atrophy of the brain. The grey matter of the convolutions is softened, more or less congested, and very frequently firmly adherent to the membranes. Its nucleated cells are found, with the microscope, enlarged, and generally irregular in form compared with healthy structure. The white cerebral matter is very frequently tougher and harder than usual, in some cases remarkably so. In others it is soft, and sometimes the fornix, sept, lucidum, and commissures are quite diffluent. The ventricles commonly contain much fluid, and their lining membrane is often studded with minute points. His observations are by no means confirmatory of Austin's, relative to the connection between the pupil affected and the character of the mental symptoms. He finds, also, that the proportion of males to females is much greater than that stated by Austin. Saxtlus.—On the Increase of Mental Disorders, and their Connection with the Sexual Functions and Diseases of the Generative Apparatus Ilenke's Ztschr., xxxix, 3, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol 106 P- 333- The general results at which Santlus arrives from his examination of the subject arc, that the three great causes which impair the pro- ductive faculty in men, are also the main causes of increasing mental aberration—viz., increasing corrupt sexual indulgence, increasing- abuse of narcotics (among which he includes tea, coffee, tobacco, and snirits^ and increasing pauperism. * h184 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKUICINK. Jsasse.—The Import of the state of the General Nutrition in judging of the Progress of Mental Disorders. Allg. Ztschra. f. Psych., xvi, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 341. Nasse states, that almost without exception, the weight of those who left the asylum recovered was greater than it had been on their admis- sion. The increase was generally rapid, especially in men, reaching its maximum in one to three months. After recovery is complete, no further increase of weight takes place, or there may be some loss. Males, on an average, increase in weight 15-8 per cent., females, 21-6 ; and the increase is more strongly marked in the less advanced than in the later period of life. The more marked the increase in weight is, the more decided and positive is the improvement in the mental state. In the patients who were dismissed improved only, it was also true that psychical improvement coincided with increase of weight; and the converse also holds good. Wood.—On the Progressive Paralysis of the Insane. Brit, and For. Med.- Ch. Eev., July, i860. Wood enumerates various objections which may be urged against the name " general paralysis," commonly given to the malady, and proposes to substitute progressive paralysis, as the disorder almost invariably progresses steadily from its insidious commencement to its fatal termination in general palsy. In describing the early symptoms of the disease, he insists strongly on the importance of its being recognised and treated early, and on the need there exists for pro- tecting the patient's family from the misery into which they may be plunged by his folly and delusions. With respect to forcible feeding, he enters into some detail, recommending a simple elastic bottle as the best apparatus. The diagnosis of progressive paralysis from dementia is to be made by the histoiy, by the remissions attended with temporary improvement, and by the possibility of rousing the attention by perse- vering efforts. As to pathology, Wood acknowledges that it is utterly obscure, all the various morbid alterations which are found in those who die of this disease being also met with in those who have never presented any of its symptoms. The treatment must be essentially supporting. Burnett.—On some of the Difficulties in the Diagnosis and Prognosis of Mental Diseases. Brit. Med. J., Aug. 4th. Burnett distinguishes between the delirium of acute arachnitis, and that of acute mania, and states that both may co-exist in the same patient. He directs attention to permanent rapidity of the pulse as a very unfavorable sign in cases of mania, while, if the pulse rises and falls together with the paroxysm, he believes there is seldom real danger. Remarking upon cases of sudden acute mania, he argues that somatic changes, predisposing to the event, must have been in progress for a long time before. He describes a class of cases in which there is great difficulty in detecting the existence of mental disease, though the person is unfit to have the control of property, owing to the rapid succession of imperfectly formed ideas.PSYCHIATRIK. 185 Billod.—On Pellagra in Italy, and more particularly in the Lunatic Asylums of that Country. J. of Psycholog. Med., Oct., 186c. Billod states that the cause of pellagra is complex and variable ; it results from a combination of many hygienic conditions, of which the use of maize is one of the principal. Hood.—On the Condition of the Blood in Mania. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 159. Hood states, on the basis of three cases of acute mania and three of recurrent mania, that there is a marked deficiency of fibrine during the period of maniacal excitement, and a correction of this deficiency during convalescence. For the analyses, see Report on the Institutes of Medicine, page 34. Baillarger.—On Paralytic Dementia, and Mania with Ambitious Delirium. Gaz. Med. de Paris., No. 24. Ann. par Jamain., i860, p. 101. Baillarger concludes that ambitious mania and paralytic dementia are two separate disorders, which cannot be considered as the acute and chronic forms of the same affection (general paralysis, so called), but rather are as diverse as mania and simple dementia. He proposes, for ambitious mania, the appellation congestive, to distinguish it from simple mania. MUSCULAR STSTEM, INDEX. Banks.—Cases of Muscular Palsy, Cruveilhier's Disease. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 1 st. Piorry.—Rapid Cure of along-continuing Muscular Pain by Shampooing. Gaz. des Hopit., 49, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 300. Niemeyer.—Two Cases of Muscular Atrophy. Deutsche Klinik, No. 27. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 101. Sandahl.—Paralysing Muscular Atrophy. Berl. Med. Ztg., No. 28. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 102. Ciienevier.—Rheumatism of the Diaphragm. Journ. de Med. de Toulouse. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 48. Inman.—On Myalgia and Myositis. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 14th. Inman records seven 'cases of myalgia and myositis (pain, and inflammation of muscles), from which he draws the following infer- ences :—(1) That excessive use of a muscle may produce an inflamma- tory condition. (2) That this condition may subside without suppu- ration or organic change. (3) That resolution is favoured by absolute rest. (4 and 5) That myositis may be induced by slight exertion, if beyond the patient's strength. (6) That in such patients, debility or cachexia must be present, the latter resulting from various causes. He suggests, on the ground of his cases, (a) that the severe pains so common in scurvy, and the brawny hardness so constantly met with in the hams, calves, and thighs in that complaint, are due to myositis from over-exertion in individuals weakened by scorbutic cachexia; (b) that the hardness of the abdominal walls, so common in cancerous affections and in inflammations of the liver, may be due to myositis the result of over-exertion in a cachectic subject, or from the spread ofREPORT ON I'BACTICAI, MEDICINE. 18G inflammation from tin; liver to the recti and obliqui; (c) that tie few cases in which jnyftjg^q pains are relieved by local bleeding are those in which over-exertion has produced a quasi-inllaininalory condition in the affected muscle. Inman.—On the Physical Condition of the Muscles during Myalaia. Brit Med. J., Feb. 4th. Inman, from examination of the muscles of tetanic patients and those of a coursed hare, states that excessive muscular action will produce rupture of muscular fibres and their associated blood-vessels. lie argues that in weakly persons similar effects may be produced by exertion which, though actually small, is to them excessive. lie gives sketches of the appearances observed in the muscles of the hare. Inman.—Myositis and Myalgia; Dyspepsia and Phlegmasia Dolens. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 25th. Inmau records cases of inflamed and sore throat, and of phlegmasia dolens, which he supposes to have been produced by extension of inflammation from over-strained muscles, the stcrno-mastoid in the neck, the psoas-iliacus in the pelvic region. Bamberger.—On Progressive Muscular Atrophy. Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vi, 7, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 171. Bamberger reports three cases, and states his opinion that the affection is primarily of the muscles, not of the nerves. In two of his cases, there seemed ground to suspect the hereditary nature of the disorder. Chills and over-exertion are the other principal causes. VrRcnow and Zenker.—On Trichina Spiralis in Man. Med. T. and Gaz., May 26th. Virchow and Zenker record a case in which a robust female a?t. 24 years was admitted with symptoms resembling those of typhoid fever. " A remarkable affection of the whole muscular system now rapidly super- vened, consisting in extreme painfullness of the extremities, with con- tractions of knee and elbow joints, and oedematous swelling, particularly of the legs." Subsequently, pneumonia set in, and the patient sank. Triclmnc, in various stages of development, were found in all the striated muscles of the body excepting the heart, as well as in tin: intestinal mucus. It was ascertained that some ham and sausages, prepared at the house where she had resided, was full of trichina?, and it is probable that she had eaten some of the raw meat. Experiments made by feeding rabbits with flesh containing trichinae, show that death ensues in about a mouth with symptoms of general muscular paralysis. The trichina? arc found in the mesenteric glands, and hi all the striated muscles of the body. CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. Earnshaw.—Case of Anewism of the Arch of the Aorta. Lancet, Feb. nth, i860.CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 187 BBXNTON.—Clinical Remarks; Chlorosis as a Cause of Venous Obstruction. Lancet, Feb. 18, i860. n-.Tr MvRKimi.—Endocarditis; Pathology; Acute Afechons of the Hearts Valves; their Degenerations. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 18th, i860. Packard, J. H.—Remarks on the State of the Capillary Blood-vessels in Inflammation. Americ. J. of Med. Sciences, Jan., i860, p. 62. Darrach, B.—Aneurism of the Aorta pressing upon the Trachea, and causing violent Paroxysms of Asthma, ivith Statistics of twenty-two Cases of Aneurism of the Thoracic Aorta, from the Records of the Few York Hospital. Americ. J. of Med. Sciences, Jan. i860, Hervez de Chegoin.—Suspension of the Circulation in Gout. (Cases.) Med. T. and Gaz., March 31st. Porter.—Rupture of the Heart. (Case.) Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June 1st, O'Ferrall.—On the use of Larch Bark in Haemorrhages. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., July 2nd. Johnson.—Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta, producing Erosion of the Vertebra; Fatal Result slowly induced by gradual Hcemorrhage behind the Peritoneum. Lancet, July 14th. Jenner.—Case of Embolon in the Cerebral Arteries, which had produced Hemiplegia, the result of Rheumatic Endocarditis. Lancet, May 12th; July 14th. Bernard.—Case of Malformation of the Heart, presenting only two Cavities. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Kev., July, p. 259. Wagner.—Case of primary softening of the Heart's Tissue.. Arch. de Heilk., i, 2, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 13. Wallmann.—Aneurism of the Hepatic Artery. Virch. Arch., xiv, 3 and 4. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 36. Lebert.—Symptoms of Endocarditis, with insufficiency of the Aortic and Mitral Orifices; Apoplectiform Attack; Albuminuria; Pneumonia; Death. Embolie of the middle Cerebral Artery, with corresponding Softening of the Brain ; Disease of the Valves on the left side of the Heart. Gaz. Med. de Paris. Ediu. Med. J., Aug., i860, p. 169. Sisson.—On the value of Tonics in Asthenic Dropsy. Lancet, Aug. 1 ith. Cooke.—Epistaxis giving rise to Hcematemesis, the Hemorrhage pro- ceeding almost to fatal Syncope. Lancet, Aug. nth. Banking.—Pneumothorax, without urgent symptoms, followed by Recovery; Subsequent Death of the Patient from Dissecting Aneurism of the Aorta. Brit. Med. J., Aug. 25th. Raymond.—Case of Rheumatic Fever with Endocarditis, treated without Depletion or Mercury. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 1st. Miciiell.—Sudden Death from Rupture of a Dilated Aorta into the Pericardial Sac. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 1st. Little.—Case of Diseased Aortic Valves; Bruit heard only at Apex. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 1st. Reid.—Case of Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta opposite the Cceliac Axis. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Sept. 1st. Hinds.—Chorea and Acute Pericarditis; what is the nature of their relation? Brit. Med. J., Sept. 8th. Doringer.—On Werlhofs Blood-spot Disease. Med. Centr. Ztg xxix, i860, Schmidt, Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 38.188 REPORT ON FRACTICAL MEDICINE. Lancet March 10th, i860. March 15th, i860. Sudden Death. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 94. May 12th, i860. 3 and 4, Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 25. Daniell.—Case of Ectopia Cordis. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 6tli. D'Arcy and Thompson.—Treatment of Epistaxis by Direct Pressure Gaz., Oct. i st. Milne it Barry.—Case of Leucocythcemia. Archives of Med., No. V. Begbie.—Narrative of a case in which malformation of the Pulmonary Valves gave rise to remarkable Cardiac Sounds. Archives of Med No. V. Fournier.—Double Blowing Murmur over the base of the Heart, without Valvular Disease. Edin. Med. J., Nov., p. 470. Ward.—General and Clinical remarks on Scurvy. Lancet, Nov. 3rd, i860, Nov. 24th, Dec. 8th. LuscnKA.—Villous outgrowths of the Outer Coat of small Blood-vessels. Virch. Arch. xvi. p. 73. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 34. Eecklinghausen.—Tubercle (Miliary) in the Muscular Structure of (he Heart. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 34. Cockle, J.—Historic Literate of the Pathology of the Heart and Great Vessels. Feb. 4th, 18th, March 3rd. Markham, W. 0.—The Pathology, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Cardiac Diseases. Feb. 4th, 18th, March 3rd. Brinton, W.—Clinical Remarks; Complex Heart Disease, Necropsy. Corrigan.—Aneurism of Arch of Aorta; absence of all direct Physical Signs, a Diagnosis by Rational Symptoms. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., LTudson, A.—Case of Fibrinous Polypi of the Heart. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March 15th, i860. Canton, E.—Notes on Atrophy and Degeneration of the Arteries, Sfc. Lancet, Jan. 7th, 14th, 28th, March 17th, June 2nd, Nov. 17th, Parts i, ii, iii, iv, v, vi. Dickinson, W. H.—Case of Aneurism of the Aorta, which burst externally. Med. T. and Gaz., April 21st. Cordes.—Dermic Cyst in the Anterior Mediastinum. Virch. Arch. xvi. Vinke.—On Penghawar Djambi, a new Haemostatic. Med. Ztg\ Russl. 42, 43, 1859, Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 31. Dreyer and Kostlin.—Development of Air in the Blood the cause of Bond, F. T.—Observations on Virchow's Theory of Inflammation. Brit. Med. J., May 5th, i860. Mirror.—Three cases of Emloli in the Cerebral Arteries. Lancet, Gerhardt, Traube, Kennedy, Spring.—On the Physical Examination and Pathology of the Heart. Arch. f. Yhys. Heilk., N. F. ii, 4, 1858, Med. Centr. Ztg. xxviii, 38, 1859, Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 173. Baur, W.—On Simple Cardiac Hypertrophy without valvular defect. Gicssen, i860, Liaug. diss. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 176. McDowel.—Case of Aneurism of the Thoracic Aorta simulating Laryn- gitis, with Clinical Observations. Dublin Hosp. Gazette, July 16th. water is used). Dublin Hosp.CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 189 Wedl.—On the Pathology of the Blood-vessels.. Sitzungsber. d'Acad. 38 Bd. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 34. Buhl. On Thrombosis and Atheroma. Wien. Med. Wochenschr., No. 34, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 34. Fuhker.—On some Outlets of the Circulation, on Cellular Pathology. Archiv. i. Phys. Heilk., 1859, 2, 3. Canst. Jalirb., Vol. ii, p. 50. Hoppe.—Vascular, or Cell-irritation; Injection or Attraction Theory!' Berlin Med. Ver. Ztg. 1856, No. 6 and 7. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 50. Samuel.—Inflammation from Irritation of Nerves. Konigsb. Med. Jahrb., Vol. i, hft. 3. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 50. Heine, Jos.—Seine and Priidce's (views on) Strictures of the Vessels, and the Intravascular Metabolic determining actions of local inflamma- tion with a Thesis on Kolliher's Hypothesis of Erection. Spires, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 55. v. Schleiss.—The Dynamics of Inflammation. Bayer arzt. Intell. Bl. No. 22. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 55. SrRLNG.—Note on two observations of Dislocation of the Heart. Bullet, de l'Acad. de Med. Belgique, No. 10 and 11, 1858-59. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 99. Mathieu.—Compression studied from its Physiological and Tlierapeutical aspects. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 121. Vanzetti.—Essay on the Treatment of Inflammation by digital com- pression. (Contains 3 more cases of Phlegmonous Inflammation of the Limbs treated successfully by Compression of the Arteries.) L'Union Med. 1858, No. 155. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 121. V. v. Lichtenfels.—Unusual Cases of Rheumatic Heart Disease. Wien. Zeitschrift N. F. ii, 18, 26, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 227. Allix.—Rapture of the Cord, tendin. of the Column. Carneas of the Mitral Valve. Journ. de Bruxelles, March 1859, p. 303. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 229. Wai ;ner.—Myocarditis and Endocarditis of the right Auricle ; Abscess of the Liver, Splenic Infarcta. Archiv. fiir Physiol. Heilk. N. F., Bd. 3, p. 131, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 229. Kolisko.—Insufficiency of the Valves of the Pulmon. Artery. Zeitschr. d. k. k. Gesell. de Aerzte zu Wien., No. 8, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 229. Berthold.—Remarkable Case of an Aneurism developed from the Right Auricle of the Heart. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 231. Wagner.—Menorrhagia, Morb. Maculos, Fatty Metamorphosis of the Heart's Tissue. Archiv. fiir Physiol. Heilk. N. F., 3 Bd. 1859, p. 415. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 233. Flugel.—Laceration of the Heart (torn off?) from Pressure on the Chest. Aerzt. Intell. Blatt, No. 26, 1859. Canst. Jahrb. Vol. iii, P- 233- J. S. Balder.—Case of Total Transposition of the Heart and the other Viscera. Gaz. Med. Ital. Stati Sardi, No. 15, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 234. Charcot.—Note on Intermittent Lameness observed in a Case of CompleteIU5POKT OP PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 190 Obliteration of one of the common Iliac Arteries. Gaz. Mdd. dc Paris, No. 19, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 235. Mercier.—On Emboli of the Arteries. Paris, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 236. Dienstl.—Bronchial Dilatation, Thrombosis of the ascending V. C'ara; Emboli in both Pulmon, Arteries; Pneumonia of the left lower lobe; and Pulmonary- Gangrene. (Esterrh. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilkunde, No. c, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 237. BxTMONT-Pat, 1.1 ic 11.—Pulmonary Venous Embolia producing Gangrene of one lobe of the Lung. Gaz. des Ilopit., No. 24, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 237. Demarqoay.—Intra-orbital Aneurisms. Gaz. Ilebdom., No. 38, 40, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 241. Oppolzer.—Aneurism of the Ascending Aorta. (Instructive Clinical Lecture.) Clinique Europ., No. 4, 5. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 241. Pitha.—Inflammation of the Cranial Sinuses. (Esterrh. Zeitsch. f. prakt. Ileilk., V. 1, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 248. Malago.—Annali Universali di Medicina, Milan, Dec. 1858. Report on 35 cases of varicose veins, cured in a short time by simple Acupuncture, without any unpleasant accident. Coiin.—On Diseases of the Bronchial Glands. Gunsburg's Zeitschr., x, 5 and 6, lift. 1859, p. 376. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 253. Davies.—Valvular Bnpture of a Dilated Aorta; Haemorrhage into the Pericardium: Death. Lancet, Dec. 15th. Page.—Aneurism of the Aorta; General Disease and Fatty Degeneration of the Heart. Lancet, Dec. 15th. 0. Rees.—Obliteration of the Super V. Cava; Inflammation of the Bight Auricle, with Atheromatous Deposits; Death. Lancet, Dec. 15th. Barker.—Case of Imperforate Arch of the Aorta, in tvhich the Boot of the Aorta was Buptured. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 131. Cxjrsham.—Cases of Obstruction of the Veins of the lower extremities, causing oedema of the corresponding Limb, and occurring in Phthisical Patients. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 377. Finger.—On the development of Gas in the Blood, and Septicemia, with- Clinical Observations bearing on the subject. Oesterr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk. vi, 10, 11, i860. Schmidt's Jahbr., Vol. 108, p. 314. Hudson.—Two Cases of Aneurism of the Thoracic Aorta, Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Dec. 16th. Duval.—On Primary Acute Endocarditis. L'Echo Med. Suisse. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 39. Bondet.—Case of Contraction of the Pulmonary Artery. Gaz. Med. do Lyon. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 80. Da Costa.—Tubercular dis. of the Walls of the Heart. Amcr. Q. J. of Med. Sc., Oct. i860, p. 412. Meigs.—Transposition of the Arteries; Case. Amer. (4. J. 01 Med. be, Flint.—Clinical Lecture on Ancemia. Amer. Med. T., Sept, 15th, i860. CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. Bouillato.—On the use of Pot. lod. in Aneurisms. Brit, and For. Mcd.- Ch. Rev., Jan. i860. L'Union Med., March 8th, 1859.CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 191 Bouillaud advises the use of iodide of potassium in the treatment of aneurisms. A female with an aneurism of the carotid, took for some days 15 grains, and afterwards for two months 30 grains daily. At the end of this period the tumour might be considered to have dis- appeared completely. Klob.—On the position of the Heart in Emphysema of the Lungs. Brit. and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan., i860. Zeitschr. d. k. k. Gesell. (1. Aerztc Zu Wien, No. 5, 1859. Klob states on accourit of the rigor mortis of the diaphragm dis- appearing early while intestinal distension takes place, the heart is pushed upwards and to the left, so that the apex is pushed upwards from ii—2 inches. From this he is disposed to question the evidence afforded by autopsies, that emphysema induces a horizontal position of the heart. J. Parrot.—Inquiry into Sweating of Blood and Neuropathic Haemor- rhages. Brit, and For. Med.-Oh. Rev., Jan., i860. Gaz. Hebdom., Nos. 40, 41, 43. J. Parrot details accurately an interesting case of hemorrhagic flow from the cutaneous surface occurring in the person of a married lady. The hemorrhage was commonly due to mental emotion, and was associated with a temporary loss of motor and sensory power, and occasionally witli epileptic fits. The disorder first appeared at set. 9, the catamenia at get. 11. Richardson.—Lectures on Fibrinous Deposition in the Heart. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 14, 21, 28 ; Feb. 11. In a series of lectures on fibrinous deposition in the heart, Richard- son first examines the various forms of concretion, and the modes by which they are produced. He notices (a) the common form of con- cretion in which the fibrine lies on the superior surface of a red coagulum; (b) when it forms a firm, white, striated mass, filling a cavity or tube, or even distending it; (c) in another form of deposition the surface is grooved more or less deeply, by a curved or spiral channel which has resulted from a stream of moving blood; (d) in another form the concretion is tubular, and contains a column of red blood in its interior; (e) occasionally fibrine is deposited as a, kind of lining to the endocardial surface. These forms of concretion may adhere to the walls of the containing cavity either by mechanical or organic adhesions, the latter including vessels. The colour of a fibrinous mass depends entirely on the amount of hsematine contained in it. Its consistence varies from that of a soft, gelatinous mass loaded with fluid, to that of a firm, tough substance as dense as boiled white of egg. Again, a fibrinous deposit may be soft and creamy in its interior and firm externally. The softer kinds of fibrine belong to asthenic states of system. In structure these deposits are more or less plainly laminated. Microscopic examination shows a closely woven fibrillar network, entangling colourless cells exactly similar to the white corpuscles of the blood; in one case of an organized concretion Dr. Richardson found an areolar web, rich in white cells and abun-ItKPOItT OP rnACTICAL MEDICINE. 192 dantly traversed by vessels. The wciglit of specimens of fibrine before and after drying- affords data for ascertaining- the amount of this sub- stance actually present. Some deposits contain as much as 30 per cent., some as little as 3. The former are of course the firmer and denser. The order of construction of a concretion is next traced, and it is shown how it commences first in some point favorable to the deposit of iibrine, as the auricula of the auricle, the sub-infundibular portion of the ventricle, and then enlarges by successive additions from the passing current of blood. Dr. Richardson next considers the question of the formation of concretions ante or />os£-mortem, and sums up his observations as follows :—" The proof of a post-mortem con- cretion is its position—on the ripper surface of a red coa^ulum. The proofs of an ante-mortem clot are (a) the fact of its filling a cavity; (b) the fact of its being grooved externally by a blood-current, or bored by a current through its centre ; (c) its being firmly adherent to the heart either by mechanical or organical tie; (d) its structure being laminated, or containing in its centre broken-up fibrine; (e) the fact of its being deeply indented by surrounding structures." Moreover a larger amount of fibrine is not uncommonly fouud in a cavity than the quantity of blood it could contain would possibly yield. And again large concretions have been removed from the hearts of animals while they were still acting. The demonstration, therefore, is complete, that fibrinous deposition may occur during life. In Section II, Dr. Richardson points out the conditions of disease in which deposition of fibrine occurs in the heart. One of these is present in cases of scurvy and purpura, a second in cases of great loss of watery fluid from the system, a third in cases where the blood-current has for a long time been very languid and sluggish, and a fourth in cases of hyperinosis, in wbich there is a marked increase of fibrine. This hyperinosis is most usually posterior to local manifestations of disease, but occasionally is anterior, and constitutes of itself a fatal malady. Of this, Dr. Richardson quotes some remarkable instances from ITuxham and Chisholm. In speaking of the symptoms of fibrinous concretions in the heart, Dr. Richardson remarks that, as a rule, they are laid down on the right side, and that consequently the circulation of blood through the lungs is more or less completely arrested. No proper supply of arterial blood can be sent from the left side of the heart, the body gradually becomes cold and of livid paleness, the mind wanders, the muscles twitch restlessly, while a peculiar dyspnoea continues to the last, even after the heart's pulsations have stopped. In this dyspnoea the respiratory acts are rapid and deep; the respiratoiy murmur is clear, the alas of the nose work while at the same time emphysema of the lungs, and in children dilatation of the chcstwall, is not unfrequent. The symptoms may come on with very varying degrees of rapidity. It sometimes happens that symptoms of very serious local inflammation are delusively relieved by fibrinous deposition taking place, but are replaced by the symptoms of concretion them- selves in all their dangerous significance. The relief to the local symptoms is produced by the fibrinous deposit obstructing the free flow of blood. The active local mischief and the general inflammatory fever arc thereby subdued. The signs of concretion may come with more or193 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. loss acuteness and severity. Two instances are given, the latter of which shows that the obstruction to the circulation may be such as to induce general oedema. Concretion may take place with very slight or obscure signs of local inflammation. Of these, two cases are given. When the concretion is on the left side there is suffocative dyspnoea, with expectoration of mucus, sometimes blood-tinged; the surface of the body is of a leaden colour, and cold. There are powerful con- vulsions, and dissolution is preceded by coma. The action of the heart is violent, irregular, and tumultuous. The lungs are never emphy- sematous, but always much congested. If their is coincident fibrinous deposition on both sides the signs are generally those of the right. Should, however, both ventricular or arterial valves become obstructed, the corresponding sound may be entirely absent. In Section III, several illustrative cases arc related of fibrinous concretion occurring in the pregnant and puerperal condition, and in other states, such as after profuse diarrhoea, after a severe shock, in low fever, in some forms of poisoning, and in Bright's disease. In certain cases, concre- tion produced in the heart does not prove at once fatal, but gives rise occasionally to] symptoms of most distressing character, but which vary greatly in different cases. In cases of croup, Dr. Richardson warns that dyspnoea and death may ensue from concretion on the right side of the heart, as well as from obstruction of the air passages. In the former case of course tracheotomy is of no avail. The same he thinks is true of diphtheria. In hyperinosis, the remedies which seem likely to be most effectual to prevent deposition of fibrine are antimony, salines, and narcotics, especially chloroform. If there be reason to suspect that deposition is actually taking- place all depletion must be abandoned, and liquid ammonia given in frequently repeated doses until it is manifestly exhaled in the patient's breath. There seems no reasonable hope of procuring solution of existing deposit by the administration of alkalies, or by the injection of alkaline solution into the veins. Possibly in extreme cases a concretion might be drawn up out of the right auricle by a hooked needle passed through the coats of the external jugular vein. Case of fatal Rheumatic Pericarditis occurring in a child under at. 2 years during an attach of Varicella. Lancet, Jan. 28th. Case of Ulceration into the Trachea and innominate artery proving fatal ly hemorrhage. The ulceration had taken place in a mass of scirrhous disease. Lancet, Jan. 28th. Case of Rupture of the Heart. Lancet, Jan. 28th. Markiiam.—On the Treatment and Proqnosis of Pericarditis. Brit. Med. J., Feb. 4th. Markham discusses the question of paracentesis pericardii, and thinks the operation may be recommended in cases of veiy considerable accumulation of fluid inducing apncea by pressure, or causing great cerebral disturbance. GAinnxER.—On Pericarditis. Edin. Med. J., Feb., i860. Gairdner sums up his paper with the following conclusions: (1) That general and severe pericarditis commonly ends in adhesion. (2) That local 13RErORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 10-1 exudation from mild pericardii in, and from the Blight® forms of disease of the pericardium, may end in (lie production of local lymph-patches, or in local adhesions of greater or less extent, (j) That pericarditis, ending- in considerable adhesion, occurs at one period or other of life, in from 2 to 3 per cent, of the patients that die in the Edinburgh Hospital. (4) That less considerable adhesions (not clinically important) occur in about 5 per cent, more (making altogether adhesions present in about 8 pet cent, of the hospital population that die from all causes). (5) That lymph-patches, of mere threads of adhesion at the extreme base occur in not less than a third of all the fatal cases in the Edin- burgh Hospital. (6) That acute pericarditis, in actual progress, occurs in about 6 per cent, of the fatal cases ; but that in very many of these cases it is Blight, and in almost all of them subordinate to other grave constitutional or local diseases; so that primary and uncomplicated fatal pericarditis is a disease of exceeding small mortality. (7) That the healing or repair of pericarditis by adhesion, or lymph-patches, must be regarded as a greatly more frequent event than its fatal issue; and that the formation of lymph-patches, as the result of slight and local irritation, is one of the commonest of morbid affections. Sieveking.—Diagnostic value of Murmur in, the Pulmonary Artery. Lancet, Feb. nth, i860. Sieveking dwells on the importance of murmurs produced in the pulmonary artery in relation to the early stage of phthisis. He adds a caution as to the necessity for distinguishing such murmurs from those produced in the subclavian of the left side. He relates at length a case of cancerous deposit in the bronchial glands of the left lung, with previous tubercular disease producing cavities and induration. In this case there was a persistent pulmonary murmur, which no doubt was produced by pressure on the artery from the cancerous mass behind and indurated lung in front. He refers to two other cases of tuberculosis pulrnonuni iu which the same murmur existed. Milroy.—Case of Pyaemia with Typhus Fever. Edin. Med. J., March, i860. Milroy records a case of low typhus fever with pneumonic complica- tion, followed by swelling of the joints. At the post-mortem examination the right lung was found consolidated, and partly broken up and infiltrated with pus; the left lower lobe was hepatized. Within and around most of the articulations there were notable purulent deposits. The veins were healthy. Peacock.—On Contraction and Obliteration of the Aorta. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., April, i860. Peacock records from various authors a series of 40 cases, on which he makes the following remarks (abstracted). The especial seat of the contraction is at or near the point of junction of the duct.-arterios. and the aorta. In 10 instances the oanaJ of the vessel was entirely obliterated, while in 30 the obstruction was incomplete. The con- striction was owing to contraction and thickening of the internal tunics, or to formation of a more or less complete septum. Above the stricture195 CmCTTLATOHY SYSTEM. the arch of the aorta was most generally dilated and the coats thickened, atheromatous, or osseous. Below the seat of stricture the vessel generally quickly dilated. A communication was maintained between the upper and lower portion of the aorta by means of the following-anastomoses: (i) That of the posterior scapular branch of the transversalis colli, derived from the thyroid axis with the posterior branches of the aortic intercostal arteries. (2) That of the superior intercostal artery of the subclavian with the aortic intercostals. (3) Those of the branches of the internal mammary with the inter- costals, and the ascending epigastric. The heart in consequence of the backward pressure upon it, becomes dilated and hypertrophied. The valves and the endocardium were diseased in more than one fourth of the cases. The age of the patients varies from that of 22 days to 92 years, but the largest proportion of persons were middle-aged. Males are much more frequently affected than females, in the proportion of 737 per cent. Peacock divides the cases into 4 groups, with respect to their symptoms and history. 1st. Those in which the defect was only discovered or noticed after death. 2nd. Those in which the defect was detected accidentally, the patients being under treatment for some other disease. 3rd. Those in which, after a long period of good health and active exertion, symptoms of cardiac asthma and dropsy gradually appeared. 4th. Those in which the patients had been always delicate, with signs of feeble circulation. In 11 cases the patients died of diseases but little connected with the aortic defect. In 8 or 9 death occurred suddenly and was directly traceable to the condition of the aorta. In 16 out of 36 cases in which the cause of death is clearly stated, the patients sank with the ordinary symptoms of cardiac asthma and dropsy, complicated by pneumonia, pleurisy, &c. Peacock adopts the view of Regnaud, that the defect originates in the faulty development of the portions of the bronchial arches which form the continuation of the aorta from the origin of the left subclavian to beyond the insertion of the duct.-arterios. That the defect is one of faulty development is probable from its being frequently associated with other congenital defects. With respect to diagnosis, in cases presenting signs indicative of the special character of the defect, Peacock enumerates the following guides: 1st. The dilated condition of the anastomosing arteries that have been mentioned. 2nd. The presence of a harsh murmur following the impulse of the heart, heard in and around the precordial region. 'This is not constant. 3rd. The contrast between the feeble pulsation of the arteries of the lower and those of the upper parts of the body. 4th. The absence of any sign of pressure exercised by ancurismal or other tumours. Biiamwell.—Some RcmarJcs on a certain unusual form of Arterial Obstruction. Edin. Med. J., May, i860. Bramwel] records a well-marked case of embolism of both femoral arteries in succession, within one week. The symptoms were a sudden stroke of pain; cadaveric coldness of the foot, with diminished tem- perature up to the middle third of the thigh; the femoral artery pulsating strongly under Poupart's ligament; the pulse in the leg gone. Death occurred suddenly two days after the last attack.IJEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL KEDIOIKE. 961 UEID, J. S.—" Respiratory Distress" found associated with another orr/anic lesion of the Heart besides fatty Defeneration. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., May ist, i860. In lleid's case of respiratory distress the heart was considerably dilated and hypcrtrophied, the aortic valves insufficient, the coronary arteries affected with calcareous and atheromatous deposit; but the muscular tissue was quite healthy. There was copious effusion into both pleurae ; the liver was healthy ; the left kidney small, but healthy; the right, large and contained fatty deposit. TnuDicnusr.—On Intravasation, JSmbolia, and Ci/tostasis as causes of Cerebral and other Paralysis. Brit. Med. J., May 5th, i860. Thudichum, after a brief notice of Virchow's views, defines the term intravasation as including " the entrance into the current of blood of matters formed without the blood-vessels, or in the substance of their walls, such as air or the contents of abscesses adjoining the vessel, the gritty matter of true atheroma, the calcareous plates and the detritus of the tissue of degenerated arteries, or the pus from the circumscribed abscess occupying the wall, but leaving unaffected the lumen of larger blood-vessels, such as a vein in true phlebitis." By cylostasis he designates the temporary or permanent arrest in capillaries or small arteries of blood corpuscles, white and red, due to a peculiar glutinous condition of the blood, by which these bodies are enabled to adhere to each other with such tenacity as to form an effective bar to the arterial current." Six cases are related in illustration of the tlnee conditions. Gibb.—On the Atheromatous Expression. Lancet, May 12th, i860. Gibb thus describes the atheromatous expression :—" There will be noticed a peculiar greasy appearance of the face, especially about the prominent part of the cheeks and end of the nose." The lips are full, the aire of the nostrils smooth and rounded. The chin is often double. The skin of the face may be reddish or pinkish; the injected vessels sometimes forming irregular streaks or stella?. The eyes are very bright, occasionally watery, with a fatty lustre, and sometimes pro- minent. A well-marked arcus senilis may be present. The general complexion is heightened, and there is an aspect of ease and content. In the calcareo-atheromatous expression the general features of the face are the same, but there is a whiteness or pallor. A bluish white annulus surrounds the cornea. Beckmann.—Case of Melancemia, Virch. Arch., xvi, 1859 Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 296. Bcckmann's patient had suffered for the best part of a year with ague, and died with the symptoms of a cerebral complication. There were some patches of pneumonia, a cysticercus in the heart, and several in the brain; the dura mater was of a golden yellow colour. The liver was greatly enlarged, the spleen not materially. The blood of the splenic vein and that of the heart had an acid reaction and contained a good many pigment-holding cells. The splenic cells were197 OIRCULATOKT SYSTEM. frequently loaded with pigment and grouped together in masses. In tie liver also there were abundant pigmentary deposits, the granules of pigment being chiefly contained in fusiform or branched cells. The hepatic cells were enlarged, contained brown yellow, but not black pigment. The small vessels of the brain were filled with pigment (not in cells), and there was some also but less in the vessels of the lungs, heart, intestines, and kidneys. Koser.—On Pyemia. Arch. d. Heilk., i, 3, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 297. Koser considers that there is a primary form of Pyaemia depending on the introduction of a specific poison into the system, like that of scarlatina, &c. He thinks that there is also a secondary, in which the system becomes infected from a poison formed in some individual organ of the patient's own body. He makes some remarks on attacks of febricula, erysipelas, and diarrhoea, which he believes to be milder manifestations of the same pyaemic disease. Febricula is often observed in lying-in hospitals during the presence of pyaemia. With regard to erysipelas he holds to the English view, that it is often a first effect of the pyemic infection. Pysernic diarrhoea may co- exist with other pyaemic manifestations, or precede them, or exist alone.' Shearer.—Case of Leucocythemia. Eclin. Med. J., July, p. 48. Shearer, in commenting on his case of leucocythemia, expresses the opinion that the white corpuscles are not derived from the red discs, but are formed independently in the blood. He has observed the white corpuscles to be increased in various diseases, all attended with depreciation of the appetite, and emaciation. Stokes and O'Ferrall.—Case of obscure Aneurism of the Aorta. Dublin Ilosp. Gaz., July 2nd. In this case a correct diagnosis was formed—1st, from the lancinating pains shooting from the mammary region towards the axilla; and 2nd, from the peculiar hard and ringing cough. During life there was no dysphagia (although the tumour was reflected and bent over the oesophagus), no laryngeal stridor, no pulsation, no inequality of the radial pulses. The aneurism was one of the transverse portion of the aorta, and the sac had opened by two perforations into the left bronchial tube, against which, during life, it must have pressed severely. Eisenmann. On Chloroancemia. Med. T. and Gaz., July 14th. Bull de Therap. t. 57, p. 250. Eisenmann regards cnloroanremia as primarily a nervous affection and advises the administration of St. Ignatius bean, hi powder, com- bined with iron and rhubarb. Kuhner. On the influence of Valvular Disease of the Heart in vromotina Diuresis. Brit, and For. Mcd.-Ch. Rev., July, p. 2co Arch f pnys. Heilk., 4, 1859. JJKKI'OllT ON PKACTICAL MKDICIN'K. 11)8 Kuhncr, from tlie analysis of a series of eases of valvular disease, docs not confirm (}o||'k experiments, which (lemODBtrated the important influonco exerted by the haamOBtfttio pressure upon tlie secretion of urine. McDowel.—On an unusual cause of death in Thoracic Aneurism. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., Aug. 15th. In McDowel's case there was neither abnormal impulse, nor abnormal sound, but orthopnoea and severe dyspnoea, with stridor in respiration apparently laryngeal. The symptoms had come on suddenly. The diagnosis of aneurismal tumour was grounded on the greater feebleness of tlie right pulse, the presence of dull percussion over the upper bone of the sternum, and feebleness of respiratory murmur in the right lung. At the post-mortem examination an aneurism of the arch of the aorta was found pressing on the trachea, narrowing especially its right side. Thompson.—RemarJcs on the Causes, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Arteritis. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Aug., i860. Thompson relates 3 cases of arteritis, one of which, occurring in the lower lip, proved fatal; another required amputation of the arm to save life, and a third recovered after almost spontaneous detachment of the right great toe. He proceeds to describe the chief pathological changes that occur in the arteries; the causes and changes that take place in arteritis; the symptoms, diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. He considers diffuse arteritis as identical with diffuse erysipelatoid inflammation. Adhesive arteritis induces obstruction of the vessel and gangrene. The symptoms, if a main artery be affected, are pyrexia, heat, soreness, and tension along the track of the vessel, numbness and pricking pain in the distal parts of the limb, which, after a time, becomes pulseless, cold, dark coloured, and cedematous. Deep-seated pain radiates in all directions through the limb, and the cutaneous sensibility becomes extreme and continues so until the complete death of the part. In general arteritis the fever is inflammatory at first, but rapidly becomes typhoid. The patient is sleepless, and tosses about with an uncontrollable feeling of distress. In local arteritis, he recommends leeching, fomentations, or ice, calomel and opium, with effervescing salines. In diffuse, chlorate of potash, camphor, turpen- tine, quinine, acids, iron, and stimulants with nourishment. Coote.—Remarks on a Case of Piarrhcemia accompanying acute Dialctcs Mellitus. Lancet, Sept. 8th, 15th. Coote collected blood from the cerebral sinuses, the V. innomin. and right ventricle, the liepatic veins, and from the splenic. The blood was fluid in every part of the body examined except a very small clot in the right ventricle. After rest, a supernatant creamy fluid was found in all except that from the splenic vein. This creamy matter was wholly taken up by ether; it contained no oil globules, no cells, and showed no trace of coagulated librine. The subjacent liquid wa« like ordinary venous blood. The reaction of the scrum was neutral. A volatile alkali was driven off by heat; this was most distinct in theCIKCULATOKY SYSTEM. 199 splenic blood. From a prolonged examination of the various cases recorded, lie states the following results, (i) Milkiness of serum (or blood) is due to presence of free fat, or of free fat with albumen in a molecular form. It is probably never due to molecular albumen alone. (2) It is a physiological result of digestion, pregnancy, lactation, and hybernation. (3) It is an occasional pathological result of chronic; alcoholism, diabetes mellitus, pulmonary disease, albuminuria, and perhaps some other disorders. (4) Lactescence of serum from free fat alone appears especially to accompany alcoholism and diabetes mellitus. The conditions favouring- the presence of molecular albumen are still very obscure; they appear related in some way to albuminuria. (5) The serum is sometimes neutral, and sometimes acid in this disease. It may contain no free alkali. (6) The albumen of the blood may be normal, or defective, or in excess. (7) Coagulable fibrin is sometimes entirely absent, or nearly so. (8) In the present instance, the source of the fat in the blood was the liver. From a survey of all the facts he has collected, he draws the following conclusions. (1) Piarrheinia consists^ in an excess of saponifiable fat in the blood, not in the mere liberation of fat from its combinations. (2) The excess of fat in the blood may be the residt of (a) the excessive ingestion of fat (as in piarrhemia during digestion), (b) the diminished elimination of the same (as in hybernation and pulmonary diseases). (3) Fat, if directly ingested, may enter the blood with the chyle through the thoracic duct: but, as this case shows, it may also be elaborated in, and ab- sorbed directly from, the liver. (4) Piai-rhemia is not a result of diabetes mellitus, for either may exist without the other. Both seem to be consequences of the same derangement of the functions of the liver which overloads the blood sometimes with an excess of sugar alone, sometimes with an excess of sugar and fat combined. (5) The pathology of blood milky from molecular albumen must be considered as still almost wholly negative. Botkin.—On tie Action of Salts on the circulating Red Cwpuscles. Virchow's Arch., Vol. xv, p. 173. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 55. Botkin thinks that stasis is produced by various neutral salts m con- sequence of then destroying the elasticity of the red globules, so that they can no longer make then way through the capillaries. Finger.—On Spontaneous Hemorrhages. Oester Ztschr. f. prakt., Heilk. v, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 301. Finger considers (1) hemorrhage occurring in anemic persons; (2) the state termed basophilia; (3) spontaneous intestinal haemor- rhage. The immediate cause of the hemorrhage in the first he believes to be the want of sufficient resisting power in the delicate capillaries. In ilie second, lie assumes an abnormal structure of the capillaries, and an abnormal crasis of the blood, consisting rather in an increase of corpuscles than in any diminution of the solid constituents. Of the third, he eaii give no account; but the prognosis is unfavorable. It may occur in _ strong or weakly persons. In the treatment of hemo- philia, he praises the use of sulphur, sulphate of soda, or magnesia which act by undergoing change into sulphuretted hydrogen, and soKBFO&C ON PBAOTICAX MEDICINE. 200 diminishing the blood globules by the solvent action of thin gas u them. Danieix.—Case of Ectopia Cordis. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 6th. In Daniell's case the heart was imperfectly developed, the septa of the auricles and ventricles being- imperfect; there was no pericardii in i. The heart was completely outside the chest in front of the sternum, through which the great vessels passed. The heart continued to act for about 4 hours after the birth of the infant, and gradually ceased. In all other respects the child was perfectly formed. Forster.—Case of Stenosis of the Aorta. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii., p. 34. Wurzb. Verb, x, 1. In Forster's case the canal of the aorta, just below the attachment of the duct Botal., was uniformly constricted by a kind of diaphragm, in the middle of which was a round opening z\ lines in diameter. The ascending aorta was dilated, and a rupture of a T shape was found at its concave side. The man, set. 33, had suffered from his youth with short breath and palpitation, and fell dead while skating. Forster.—Case of Purulent Endocarditis of the Mitral Valve. Atlas d. mikr. path. anat. Taf. 31. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 34. Forster reports the case of a female, set. 23, who, after several hours over-exertion in severe cold, was attacked with typhous symptoms, and died in 5 days. Besides the mitral valve disease, recent metastatic infarcta were found in the pia mater and brain, the muscular tissue of the heart, the thyroid, spleen, kidneys, and intestinal mucous mem- brane. Wedl.—On the Pathology of the Blood-vessels. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 34. Wien. 1859, Sitzungsber. d. Acad., 38 Bd., p. 265. Wedl has examined the changes occurring in the cerebral vessels during the cicatrization ensuing on apoplexy, and finds (a) that the capillaries, arteries, and veins become obliterated by a growth of nuclei in their walls; (b) that after a time the nuclei shrivel up and undergo fatty metamorphosis ; (c) that subsequently the fat becomes absorbed; and (d) the vessels arc converted into fasciculi of connective tissue. Fuhrer.—On some Outlets of the Circulation. Cellular Pathology. Archiv. f. physiol. Heilk. Jahrg., 1859, Part 2, 3. Fuhrer strongly opposes Virchow's doctrines of cell-pathology, and endeavours to show that Virchow's connective tissue cells and then- processes are only the plasmatic system described by Lessing. This is supposed to communicate on one side fHth the capillaries, on the other, with the lymphatics. The corpuscles on this view arc mere enlarge- ments of the plasmatic vessels. In a second paper, he contends for the production of cells in a blastema, independently of pre-existing cells as the general rule, at least, in the normal state. Samuel.—Inflammation produced by Irritation of Nerves. Konigsberg, Med. Jahrb., Vol. i, Part 3, p. 237.CIKCULATOHY SYSTEM. 201 Samuel has experimented on rabbits to determine the effect of nerve- irritation in producing inflammation. By passing an interrupted current through the Casserian ganglion, by means of needles penetrating the cranium, be caused the pupil to contract considerably, or to dilate when t lie current was vciy strong. Some conjunctival vessels at the same time became injected; the sensibility of the lids, cornea, and conjunctiva w as increased; the lids twitched, and lachrymation_ took place. In 24 hours after the irritation, inflammation was established, which in- creased till the 3rd day, and then declined. Ulceration of the cornea occurred, and once a small hypopyon. The Ms was congested, but not inflamed. Samuel concludes that inflammation is a disturbance of nutrition produced either by direct irritation of the tissue, or indirectly by irritation of nerves. Increased exudation and absorption of plasma, and activity of cell formation are its essential characters. Berner.—Physiological Experiments 011 the Motion of the Heart. Erlangen. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 99. Berner states that the apex of the heart does not descend in systole. When the organ is left free to move uncovered by its pericardium, it contracts in systole from all sides about a hard point situated nearly in the middle of the long axis of the ventricle. In this case, the base of the ventricle moves downwards, the apex upwards, the margins in- wards. If there is but little fluid in the pericardium, all parts of the ventricle draw towards the apex, but this remains fixed itself. If there is much pericardial fluid, or the heart in any way is rendered more moveable, the apex ascends. Schaeer.—On Auscultation of the normal Heart Sounds. Giessen. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 99. Schafer found, in observations on 50 persons, that the first sound of the heart might vary in many ways in its quality without this variation indicating any pathological state. In some cases it was not well defined; in others, unusually dull and prolonged; in a few, it resembled a murmur. In two healthy boys it was so like the 2nd sound in quality, intensity, and duration, that it could only be distinguished by aid of the pause. Reduplication (spaltung) of the heart's 2nd sound was observed 29 times; never at the apex, and rarely at the right of the sternum. It was oftencst heard during expiration and at the end of inspiration. The 2nd sound was heard at the apex as strong as the 1st in as many cases as it was more faint, but at the base the 2nd sound was strongest hi 43 cases out of 50. Beau.— On the Therapeutic Value of general JBloodletting in Inflamma- tions. Clinical Lectures delivered at la Charite. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 120. Beau discountenances v. s. because he regards inflammation as especially frequent in weakly persons, because it injures the blood by diminishing its globules, and increasing its fibrine, and because the results of statistics show that it is injurious.11EP0KT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Imbeut-Goukijkyue.— Memoir on Acute Hypertrophy of the Heart. Gaz. Med. de Paris, 50, 51—1858. Oansfc Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 232. Imbert-Gourbeyre states that acute hypertrophy of the heart is almost exclusively a result of the acute form of M. Br. FOBGET,—On Aneurism of the Left Heart consecutive to Aneurism of the liight Heart. L'Union Meu., No. 101, 1859. Forget observed 2 cases in which (there being no valvular defect) he believes that hypertrophy of the right side was induced by vis a forgo hypertrophy of the left. Nicolis.—Gazz. Med, Ital., Stati Sardi, No. 6, 1839. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 234. In a new-born child the heart was observed to be situated in the epigastrium, and through the thin skin the fissure between the ven- tricles, that between the auricles, and the systolic and diastolic move- ments of both ventricles and auricles were perceptible. Klob.—Thrombosis of the Duct of Botal. Zeitschr. d. k. k. Gescllchaft der Aerzte zu Wien, No. 1, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 236. Rauciifuss.—Thrombosis of Duct. Arter. Virch. Arcliiv., 17 Vol. 1859, p. 376—474. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 236. Klob and Rauciifuss both record autopsies of infants in whom, along with fibrinous plugs of the duct, there were found similar formations in various arteries, the mesenteric, renal, and pulmonary, or hemorrhagic infarctions of the lungs. Thungel.— 'Reports from the General Hospital at Hamburg. Virch. Archiv., 16 Vol. 1859, p. 356. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 236, 247. Thungel gives a case of (1) Plugging of the basilar artery with red softening of the cerebellum: (2) Plugging of the basilar artery, red softening of the right crus cerebri and pons varolii: (3) Repeated apoplectic attacks, plugging of the left axillary artery, and stenosis of the bicuspid orifice : (4) Old excrescence of the mitral valve, scarlatina, plugging of the left femoral artery: (5) Inflammation and laceration of the pulmonary valves, emboli in the puhnon. arteries: (6) Thrombosis of the gastro-epiploic artery. He also gives a case of rupture of the aorta ; and of the uniting branch of the art. of the corp. callos. Charcot and Ball.—On sudden Heath and speedy Death occurring as the result of obturation of the Pulmon. Artery by coagula of Blood, in Cases of Phlegmas. Alb. Hoi. and of obstructive Phlebitis in (jeneral. Gaz. Ilebdom. 49, 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 237. ' The authors state that of 12 cases of obstruction of the principal divisions of the pulmon. artery consecutive on obstruction of some vein, death ensued suddenly in 2; some minutes after the supervention of the dyspnoea in 2; in 2 also after \ hour; in 4 after some hours, and in 2 oidy after some days. They record one case probably of the same kind where recovery took place.203 CIHCULATORY SYSTEM. Qogjy,—A rare Case of Aneurism of the ascending Aorta, hearing on the Pathogenesis of hemorrhagic Infarction. Gunsburg's Zeitschr. f. lflfn. !Med., N. F. I., Vol. 3 part. 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 241. , * The aneurism sprang from the aorta just above the sigmoid valves, occupied the whole right half of the thorax (?), and pressed the heart out of its vertical into a completely horizontal position. It had formed an adhesion with the hilus of the right lower lobe; and at this part, where the arterial coats were most diseased, a second cavity was formed communicating with the aneurism, but having much thinner walls, consisting only of pleura and connective tissue, and almost filled with solid reddish brown coagula. "This formation of a second anciu isnial pouch caused (1) dyspnoea and pain on the right lower side by compression of the bronchi, and secondary pleuritis; (2) hemor- rhagic pulmonary infarction by pressure on the pulmonary vein pro- ceeding- to the upper and middle lobes; (3) cyanosis and other obstruc- tion phenomena by the sudden production of notable contraction of the right auricle and of the superior cava opening into it.". Beckmann.—On Thrombosis of the Renal Veins in Children. Verhandl. der med. physik. Gesellsch. zu Wurzburg, 9 Bd. 1859, p, 201. (Janst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 248. Beckmann states this is no uncommon occurrence in infants dying with profuse diarrhoea and atrophy, he has exammed 10 cases carefully. The left renal vein was the one oftenest affected; ha a few cases the thrombus extended into and obstructed the inferior cava. The coagula were mostly dark red, and loosely adherent to the walls of the vessels. No blood in the urine, or other symptoms seem to have been observed during life. J. Baart de la Faille.—Case of Phlebothrombosis in a newly delivered Female. Nederl. Tijdschr., 1859, p. 167. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 248. Thrombosis of the left saphena v., crural, iliae, and inferior cava: thrombosis of the uterine, and pampiniform plexuses. Von Dcscii.—On Thrombosis of the Cerebral Siimscs. Zeitschr. f. ration, med., 3 Series, vii Vol., 1859, p. 161. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 248. Von Dusch finds among 57 recorded cases, 32 in which the throm- bosis resulted from gangrenous, erysipelatous, or purulent inflammations of parts whose vascular system was in close communication with the sinus; 4 in which it might be regarded as the result of external pressure on the sinus or internal jugular vein; 15 in which it seemed to be induced by influences enfeebling the circulation; and 6 in which no cause could be made out. In 27 cases, caries of the cranial bones was the cause of the affection. Thrombosis resulting from inflamma- tory action in the vicinity of the sinuses is characterized by its affecting an adjacent, and mostly a symmetrical sinus, by its advanced state of softening, by alterations in the wall of the sinus, and by inflammationREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 904 of the brain and its membranes, and metastatic processes in other organs, BlJHL.—On Dilatation of the Pulmonic Capillaries. Virch. Arcliiv. xvi Vol. 1859, p. 559. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 252. In the case of a female dying with mitral disoase, Buhl found the lungs in a state of brown pigment-induration. All the capillaries were varicose, or formed loops or tortuosities, and club-like processes. Virchow has seen 3 similar cases. MASCHKA.—On Ecchgmoses on Internal Organs. Prager Vierteljahrs- schrift, 2 Vol., 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 254. Maschka states that capillary laceration may be produced by (1) im- peded access of air to the lungs during inspiration, in consequence of which more blood rushes into the pulmonary plexuses; (2) violent concussions of the body; (3) local congestions, active or passive; (+) certain poisons, as prussic acid, chloroform. Jenner.—On Congestion of the Heart and its local Consequences. Mcd.- Chir. Trans., i860, p. 199. Jenner directs attention to the effect of congestion of the muscular structure of the heart in producing induration, toughening and thicken- ing of its walls, and to the influence which those tcxtural changes exert on the development of permanent dilatation of the heart. The induration is due to an interstitial exudation of lymph, which appears either in the form of granules, or more or less organized into fibrous tissue. The parietes of the heart thus altered are deficient in their normal contractile power (as shown further by then- being affected, more or less, by fatty degeneration) and, therefore, gradually yield to the distending force of the blood which congests the cavities, so that at length permanent and extreme dilatation is produced. Willebrand.—On the Action of Secale Cornutum. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 299. Willebrand ascribes the beneficial effect of secale cornutum to its influence on the arterial coats through the vasomotor nerves, and also believes that it has a local astringent action when directly applied. Uc has foimd it useful in dilatation of the heart, in neuralgia from the pressure of distended veins upon nerves, in chronic inflammation and swelling of the uterus, in chronic bronchitis and phthisis, in enlarged spleen, erysipelas, and various eye affections. Richardson.—On a Case of Cyanosis. Med. T. & Gaz., Dec. 22nd. Richardson's patient was a child, ajt. 5, cyanotic from birth, avcII nourished and plump, and with more than ordinary intellectual faculties. She died of tuberculosis, but the disease presented no febrile symptoms at any time. The heart's sounds and valves were healthy, the foramen ovale widely patent. The blood was of a venous colour in both veins and arteries, and remained fluid for several days, though exposed to the air.RESPIRATORY ST9TEM, INDEX. 1859, 5 and 6. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 173. RESPIRATORY SYSTEM.—INDEX. QxBB.—On Disease of tlie Throat, Epiglottis, and Windpipe; including Diphtheria, Nervous Sore Throat, Displacements of the Cartilages, Weakness of the Voice and Chest; their symptoms, progress, and treat- ment, pp. 182. Churchill, London. Godwin Timms.—On Consumption: its true nature and successful treat- ment, pp. 412. Churchill. ITvde Salter.—On Asthma: its pathology, causes, consequences, and treat- ment, pp. 372. Churchill. Czermak.—The Laryngeal Speculum, and its utility in Physiology and Medi- cine. Leipzig, i860. Garrett.—New Views on the causes, symptoms, and treatment of Irritative Congestion of the Windpipe. Churchill. Meyer.—On Congenital Vesicular Malformation of the Lungs, with Remarks on Cyanosis resulting from Pulmonic Disease. Brit, and For. Med.- Ch. Rev., Jan. i860. Archiv. fur path. Anat. Vol. xvi, heft. 1 and 2. Dcncalfe.—On Pathological Conditions and Treatment of Chronic Bron- chitis. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 7th, i860. Hawksley.—New Medical Inhaler. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 21st. Thompson.—Instrument for applying Fluids in form of Mist to the Larynx. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 21st. JJandfield Jones, C.—On the Mercurial Treatment of Croup in Rural Districts. Lancet, March 10th. Thompson, H.—Case of Pneumothorax with Musical Murmur in the Pleura. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March 1st, i860. Biermer.—On the presence of abundance of Cholesterine in the Sjmta as a sign of an old Empyema having opened into the Bronchi. Virch. Archiv. xvi, 5, 6, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 304. Hansen, C.—Case of Syphilitic Contraction of the Larynx. Hosp. Tidende, No. 1, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 311. De Mussy, G.—Lecture on the Causes and Treatment of Pulmonary Tuber- cidosis. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., April, p. 538. Wilmot, S.—Case of Syphilitic Laryngeal Disease; Tracheotomy performed ; Recovery. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April 15th. Mcrney.—A Case of Pneumonia engaging the upper and anterior part of the left Lung. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April 15th. Brown, F. J.—The Diagnosis of Phthisis by the Microscope. Brit. Med. J., April 21st. IIannon.—Inhalation of Antimoniated Hydrogen in Pulmonary Inflamma- tion. Presse. Med. 46, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 29. Patruban.—General Emphysema produced in the course of a Pneumonia. Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt., Heilk. v. 32, 33, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb.j Vol. 106, p. 43. Thamiiayn.—On Asphyxia, and the Recovery of Asphyxiated Persons. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 96. Moore, W.—Affections of the Chest in Children; Subacute Idiopathic Pleurisy with Effusion; Variety in vicarious means of removing the same; Treatment. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., May 15th. ConN.—On diseased states of the Bronchial Glands. Gunsburo- Ztschr xretort on rnACTiCAi, medicine. 20G Kennedy.—Typhoid Pneumonia (case). Dublin HoBp. Gaz., June ist. Waters.—Cases of Acute Disease of the Chest. Brit. Med. J., Juno 9th, (6th ; July 21 st. Watson.—Cases of Empyema. Glasgow Med. J., Jan. i860, p. 480; April, p. 64. Monk.—Chronic Pneumonia with Caverns; peculiar Sputa. Deutsche Klinik, 48, 49, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 298. Green.—On the difficulties and advantages of Catheterism of the Air-Pas- sages in Diseases of the Chest. Amer. Med. Monthly, Feb. i860. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Kcv., July, p. 258. Wilks.—Five Cases illustrating the Treatment of Pneumonia, with brief Clinical Remarks. Med. Times and Gaz., July 28th. Moore.—Affections of the Chest in Early Life; Phthisis Pulmonalis; Pro- gnostic value of Hivmop>tysis; Curability of. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., Sept. 15 th. Merkel.—Recent Contributions to Laryngoscopy and Phonetics. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 81—103. Konzier-Joly.—Tartar Emetic in large doses in Croup. Bull, de Therap. 58, June i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 164. Cordes.—Dei-moid Cyst in the Mediast. (anterior). Virch. Arch. xvi. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 33. Wagner.—Numerous Bones in the Lungs. Arch. f. phys. Ileilk. iii, 3. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 33. Scholz.—Concretions in the Lungs. Oester. Jahrb. f. prakt. Ileilk. v, 4, 1859. Canst Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 33. Vogee.—The Physical Examination of the Lungs of Little Children. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 98. Gerhardt.—On the Use of the Laryngeal Speculum. Arch. f. physiol. Heilk. 3 Heft. 1859. Canst, Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 104. Richardson.—Case of Phthisis Pulmonalis, in which Amputation of the Fool had been performed. Med. T. and Gaz., Nov. 24th. Thin.—Case of Abscess of the Larynx. Edin. Med. J., Dec. Mc Swinet.—On the History and Post-Mortem Appearances in a Fatal Case of Croup, in which Tracheotomy Was performed. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Dec. ist. Verneuil.—Calculus of the Nasal Fossa?. Journ. des Connaiss. Med., June 10th, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 263. Isnard.—Nature and Rational Treatment of Croup and Membranous Angina; on Perchloride of Iron and its Mode of Action in Diphtheritic. L'Union Med., No. 105 and 106, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 265. Geriiardt.—Laryngeal Croup. Tubingen, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, Fahrner.—Experience respecting Croup. Virch. Archiv. 17 Vol., 1859, p. 398. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 265. Trousseau.—Discussion on Tracheotomy and Tubage of the Larynx. Gaz. Hebdom., No. 49, 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 266. Schmidt, B.—A Case of Tracheotomy in Laryngeal Croup. Archiv. fur physiol. Ileilk. N. F. 3 Vol., 1859, p. 562. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. in. Roser.—On Tracheotomy in Croup. Archiv. fur physiol. Ileilk. N. F., 3 Vol., 1859, p. 562. Canst, Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 266. Srengler.—RepoH on the Thermo; of Ems; Treatment of PJiary»go-La-207 RESPIRATORY SfSTEM, INDEX. ryngeal Disease (not tuberculous) by Inhalation. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 268. Leudet and Sestier.—Remarks on oedema of the Glottis supervening on Angina of the Throat and Tonsils, and on. its Therapeutic Indications. Monit. d'es Hopit., No. 80, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 269. Verneuil.— Vegetations of the Larynx. L'Union Med., No. 82, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 270. Traube.—On the Diagnosis of the Conjugation of the anterior thin border of the left Lung in connection ivith Dilatation of the Bronchi. Deutsche Klinik, No. 34, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 270. Delioux de Savignac.—On Pulmonary Congestions: their Diagnosis and their Treatment. Bullet, general de Therap., July 15th, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 273. Leonhardi.—A Case of Lobar Pneumonia with hydrocephaloid phenomena in a Boy 4 years old. Deutsche Klinik, N0.39, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 273. Poncet.—Analysis of 417 Cases relative to the Treatment of Pneumonia. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 273. Aran.—Remarkable Residts of the vse of Major's Hammer in a case of Double Pneumonia with Cerebral Symptoms. Bullet, de Therap., Feb. 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 273. Legendre.—On the Expectant Method in Simple Pneumonia. Archiv. general de Med., Sept. 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 273. Beau.—On Saturnine Medication in Tubercular Phthisis. Gazz. Med. Ital., Stati Sardi. No. 39, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 283. Mascarel.—The Diseases of the Respiratory Apparatus at the Waters of Mont Dore. L'Union Med., No. 68, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 283. AVlxderlich.—Acute Miliary Tuberculosis running its course in 30 hours. Archiv. f. physiol. Ileilk. N. F. iii, 1859, p. 283. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 283. Sales Girons.—New Respiratory Therapeutic means or method of render' ing Medicated Liquids Resjrirable by Pulvei'isation. Bullet, de Therap., 28th Feb., 30th Nov. 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 285. Baccelli.—On Empyema from Genuine Pleurisy. Borne, 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 285. Baisi.e.—On the Treatment of Pleural Effusions by Thoracentesis and Iodine Injections. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 285. Bottini.—Notes on Pertussis prevailing (epidemically) in the City of Mentone in 1857-58. Gazz. Med. Ital., Stati. Sardi. No. 4, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 289. Mantegazza.—Medical Letters on South America. Gazz. Med. Ital., Lombard. No. 20, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 289. Boiin.—Hernia Diaphragmatica. Kbnigsbcrg, Med. Jahrb., ii. Bd. 1 Heft. 1859, p. 36. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 290. Dioav.—On a Form of Syphilitic Aphonia not generally known. Gaz. Med. de Lyons, 2. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 320. Monteils.— On Thoracentesis in Acute Pleuropneumonia. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 34. Labadie de Lalande.—CEdema of the Glottis; Tracheotomy performed in extremis; Cure. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 50.208 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MF.DICLVK. Bartu.—Differential Diagnosis Of Pulmonary Phthisis and Dilatation of the Bronchi. I/Union Med. do la dironde, .July, 1H59. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 108. Birton.—On Latent Pleurisy. Brit. Med. J., Dec. 29th. Jacoui.—Indications and Contra-Indications of Kermes. Bullet, de Tln'rap. Ann. de Therap. i860, p. 142. Ebhner.—Tracheotomy in Croup, 4 cases. N. Araer. Med.-Chir. Rev., Sept. i860. Matthews.—Fumigation of the Lungs and Air Passages. Amcr. Med. T., Nov. 24th, i860. Flint.—Clin. Lecture onPulmon. Emphysema. Amer. Med. T., Dec 8th, and 29th. Meadows.—On the Admission of Air into Serous Cavities. Loud. Med. Rev., August; October. Voss.—A Historical and Critical Examination of the Operation of Tra- cheotomy in Croup, with a Report of 14 coses. N. Amer. Med.-C'li. Rev., May i860. Courty.—Treatment of Asthma by Hypodermic Injection. Gaz. Medic, Nov. 1859. Ediii. Med. J., Jan. i860. Courty records a case of asthma which was greatly benefited, indeed temporarily cured, by the injection of atropine in the vicinity of the left vagus nerve. This was done thrice, the quantity used being -Jj- grain. Much prior treatment had failed. Peacock.—On French Millstone Makers' Phthisis. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. i860. Peacock gives an account of disease of the lungs prevalent among1 the workmen engaged in preparing- French millstones. lie believes that it is produced by the gritty particles of silex which they inhale while at work. In two autopsies which he details the lungs were found markedly tuberculous with cavities, especially in the first. The symptoms are, in the main, those of chronic bronchitis, or phthisis. Of 23 men who had taken to the trade when they were not above the age of 20, the average age was 24-1 years; and the ages of the 5 oldest were 38, 29, 29, 28, and 28. In contrast with this the author places the report of workers in wire-weaving, &c, engaged in the same establishment. Of 13 who had joined the trade at or before 20 years of age, the mean age was 35*84 years, and 5 of them had attained the ages of 74, 43, 42, 40, and 40. Yet the sanitary circumstances of the latter were in most respects worse than those of the former. Dr. Peacock concludes with some suggestions for the prevention of the disease. He recommends that none who have not attained adult age should engage in the occupation; that the workmen should avoid cold, and all excess in stimulants; that the workshops should be room)-, and that inhalation of the dust should be avoided by respirators and other means. Dcrand-Fardel.—On the Treatment of Phthisis by Mineral Waters.RESrlRATORY SYSTEM. 209 Bullet. Gen. de Therap., June 30, 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. i860. Durand-Fardel sanctions the use of mineral waters, especially the sulphurous, in the treatment of phthisis. They are, however, only to be employed when the disease is stationary. Monnerat.—Powder for Chronic Coryza. Bull. Gen. de Therap., Oct. 30, 1858. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. i860. Monnerat uses powdered subnitrate of bismuth with advantage in acute coryza as a local application. In chronic coryza, Dr. Sabrier adds Iodide of Sulphur. lie prescribes 10 or 12 pinches a day of the follow- ing formula:—Bismuth Subnitr. si., Pulv. Glycyrrhiz. 5ij., Sulph. Iodicl. gr. ivss. Sloane.—On the Treatment of Scalds of the Glottis. Brit. Med. J., Jan. 14th. Sloane records 6 cases of scalds of the glottis, on which he makes the following remarks:—It will be observed that the only one which ended fatally was that in which tracheotomy was performed, and the dyspnoea was never so ru-gent in this case as in Case II, which re- covered. According to Mr. Wright, of Nottingham, tracheotomy in scalds of the glottis almost invariably results in death, and the treat- ment by leeching, calomel, and antimony, is frequently successful. Adding to the record of 14 cases of this kind lately published in the Med. T. and Gaz., 2 others which have come under Dr. Sloane's notice, there is a total of 16 cases of scalds of the glottis in which trache- otomy was resorted to, and of these no fewer than 13 died. The calomel treatment is by 1 grain eveiy hour, with —grain of Ant. Pot. Tart. Mayne.—Case of Cirrhosis of One Lung. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., Feb. 1st, i860. Mayne relates a very interesting case of cirrhosis of the left lung consecutive to well-marked tubercular disease of the same. Death ensued from bronchitis about 6 years after he had appeared to be in a state of confirmed phthisis. At the autopsy the left lung was found excessively shrunken, dense, and tough; a large cavity was in its upper part, and throughout its texture there were here and there white, gritty, chalky masses. He appeared to have almost completely recovered from phthisis some months before his death. Bevan— On Scalds of the Larynx. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb i860. Dr. Bevan gives 4 cases of scalds of the larynx, in which death appeared to be imminent, but which terminated successfully without tracheotomy xinder the following treatment:—"An emetic, followed by a cathartic enema, with leeches to the upper margin of the sternum; the bleeding encouraged by warm poultices. The leeches to be repeated eveiy 3rd or 4th hour if the strength permits. In addition calomel is to be given in 2 grain doses eveiy half hour, or horn-, and mercurial frictions arc to be used." As soon as the mercury produced the green stools, 14210 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. the symptoms in every case were improved,—the lungs were the first organs relieved, the brain next, and the larynx last of all. In one ease 56 grains of calomel wero taken. No had effect resulted from the mercury in any of the cases. From tracheotomy Dr. Hovan does not think much is to be hoped. Spence.—Cases of Tracheotomy in Croup. Edin. Med. J., Feb. i860. Spence records 8 cases of croup in which tracheotomy was performed when the patients were in extremis. Of these 3 recovered, and in all life seems to have been prolonged. He does not sanction early per- formance of the operation, but would not have it delayed after other means have had a fair trial without avail. In the after-treatment he advocates ipecacuan emetics to the exclusion of antimony to oppose bronchial effusion, with blisters occasionally to the chest. In many it is necessary to give beef-tea and wine from the first. Parkes.—Case of Acute Sthenic Pneumonia left without treatment; observations on the Temperature of the Body, and on the Urinary Excretion. Med. T. and Gaz., Feb. 25, i860. Parkes records a case of acute sthenic pneumonia left without treat- ment, except the application of a few leeches. A table is given of the temperature, pulse, and respirations taken hourly during 6 days till the termination of the pyrexia, and of the amount of urine, its urea aud chloride of sodium contents during the period of defervescence, and during complete convalescence. It appeared clearly that there was some connexion between the variations of the pidse and tempera- ture. The urea excretion was more than doubled during resolution of the lung. Two drachms of chloride of sodium, given as an experiment, did not appear in the urine for more than 48 horns. Dr. Parkes dis- cusses finally the two principal views which are held relative to the local inflammation and the general pyrexia, and the cause of the sudden subsidence of the latter, at a period when the lung disease is at its height. The first of these regards the basis-malady as a blood disease, consisting partly at least in increase of fibrine, and considers that by transudation of the morbid material into the air-cells the blood is puri- fied. In the second the lung disease is the primary affection, and the hyperinosis of the blood a secondary. From the fact that the liver is oi'ten affected in pneumonia, Dr. Parkes suggests that some morbid condition of that organ may supply some irritant to the blood. Richardson.—On an Auscultatory Sound produced by the Action of the Heart on a portion of Lung. ' Med. T. and Gaz., Feb. 2 c, i860. Richardson says the character of the sound is superficial: a coarse crackling, heard especially at the acme of inspiration, and towards the close of expiration feeble or lost altogether. In two autopsies of patients who had presented this sound, he found a portion of inflated htag overlapping the surface of the heart, and fixed by adhesions to the°pcricardiuin or to it and the sternum also. He believes the sound to be produced by the impulse of the heart upon this fixed portion of lung.RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 211 W. T. Gairdner.—Five Tears' Hospital Experience of Pneumonia. Edin. Med. J., March, i860. Gairdner gives details of 11 fatal cases of pneumonia, of which 1 only was uncomplicated, and even this occurred in a man of excessively- intemperate habits, and the disease had advanced to destructive sup- puration before treatment was commenced. These fatal cases corre- spond to from 60 to 100 cases of pneumonia, or disease verging upon it, which Gairdner has had under his care in 5 years. He has employed no special treatment, but carefully adapted his remedies to the require- ments of each case. He states his opinion that, during the last 12 or 13 years, " a very great diminution has taken place in the intensity as well as the frequency of inflammations g-enerally, and believes that sanitary reform has great power in preventing the acute inflammations, as well as the epidemic fevers." Quatn, R.—On the Use of the Hypophosphites of Soda and Lime in the Treatment of Phthisis. Lancet, March 17. Quain has given a full trial to the hypophosphites of lime and soda recommended by Churchill, but finds them quite inefficacious. Of 22 individuals labouring under phthisis in various stages, 16 derived no benefit whatever from the hypophosphite treatment; in 3 the benefit was very slight and temporary ; in 2 the improvement, though marked, was temporary; and in 1 it has been satisfactory and permanent. Quain thinks that any improvement effected was owing to the rest, good food and nursing of the hospital, and to this only. Of 22 cases treated in the ordinary way, 16 were, more or less, permanently or materially benefited. Bloodgood.—Observations on Bronchial Respiration. Arner. J. of Med. Sc., Jan. i860. Bloodgood dissents from the opinions usually held as to the produc- tion of bronchial respiration ; because he thinks that, if the sound were merely that generated by the passage of the air to and fro in the bronchi conducted to the ear by the solid lung, it could not be obscured by the normal vesicular respiration of health. His own view is as follows:—" When a portion of lung becomes hepatized, the bronchus that supplied it no longer transmits air to the vesicles below, and can therefore no longer produce the sound of transmission, great or small; but as the tube itself remains open by reason of the elasticity of its walls, the air coming from above having 710 room to enter except by expelling an equal quantity from it, plays around its month in passing doivnivards, and causes the air within to vibrate like the instrument known as the Pandean pipe, and thus produces the tubular sound which will be ln>h or low loud or weak, according to the calibre and depth of the pervious portion of the tube, and the force of the respiratory act, which latter will be greater when the upper and middle lobes are affected than when the disease is confined to the lower portions, on account of the greater velocity of the air in those parts. When the tube itself becomes filled with solid or liquid matter, or closed by external pressure, this sound will cease."REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 212 Bartitez.—On the Comprint I ire Results of the Treatment of Croup by Tra- cheotomy, and by Medication during the Years 1854-1858. Gaz. Ilebdom., Dec. 2nd, 1859. Brit, and For Med.-Ch. Rev., April. Barthcz distinguishes between simple or local croup or diphtheria, and general or infectious. He recommends tracheotomy whenever asphyxia is threatening-, or internal remedies have failed. In 1856 there were only 4 recoveries among- 18 cases, 3 of those who recovered having- been trachcotomised. In 1857, of 33 cases, 9 were cured, 7 without operation. In 1858, 124 were operated on with a mortality of 106; 62 were not operated on with a mortality of 26. Barthez con- cludes from all his facts that it is not the treatment which determines the results, but the varying- forms of the epidemic. Brown, F. J.—The Diagnosis of Phthisis by the Microscope. Brit. Med. J., April 21st. Brown details at some length the views of Dr. Andrew Clark relative to the deposition, scat, elimination, and detection of pulmonary tubercle. Conway Evans.—On Tracheotomy in Croup. Edin. Med. J., Jan. and May, i860. Conway Evans reviews the various objections which have been made against the performance of tracheotomy in cases of croup. The first, that it is unnecessary, because the opening of the larynx is never so occluded by false membrane as to prevent the access of sufficient air, he meets by the remark that life has been saved over and over again by the operation, the relief afforded being instantaneous. The second objection is that tracheotomy is useless whenever the false membrane extends below the point at which the trachea is opened. To this he replies, that unless it can be shown that the operation, property per- formed^ increases the mortality of the disease, our inability to diagnose with certainty the precise limits of the false membrane is no solid argu- ment against its performance. To the third objection that tracheotomy increases the risk of supervening bronchitis and pneumonia, it is answered that this admitted danger may be very much obviated by more than ordinary care in the after-treatment. To the fourth objec- tion, drawn from the frequent insuccess of the operation, the results obtained in France are opposed where tracheotomy has been resorted to in cases of croup on an extensive scale, and where the mortality has only amounted to 68 per cent. To the fifth objection, of the danger and difficulty of the operation, the author answers, that the difficulty must be met by increased skill, and that Trousseau's records of 96 cases of its performance for the removal of foreign bodies, show 73 recoveries. A number of cases are next related, chiefly of adults, in which tracheotomy was of most essential importance, either saving or greatly prolonging life. None of these were cases of croup. The author assigns the following reasons for the frequent insuccess of tra- cheotomy when performed for the relief of croup. 1st. It has been employed almost always as a last resource, death by suffocation being imminent. 2nd. The previous treatment has been almost always of a depressing kind 3rd. In most cases the after-treatment has not beenRESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 213 directed to support the strength, nor have means been adopted to ward off the supervention of pneumonia or bronchitis. Dr. Evans advocates tlie frequent administration of brandy and beef-tea after tracheotomy, believing that death by asthenia is the real tendency of croup apart from its suffocative effects. With respect to the circumstance lately dwelt upon by Dr. Richardson, of the formation of fibrinous concre- tions hi the rig-ht side of the heart, and consequent fatal syncope, in some cases of croup, the author dissents from Dr. Richardson as to the formation of these coagula depending solely on an increase of the librinc in the blood, and rather refers it to a retardation of the blood- current in consequence of the less free transmission of blood through the lungs. The suspicion, therefore, that a coagulum was in process of formation in the right cavities of the heart would be no argument against the performance of tracheotomy, but the reverse. Among the various circumstances which militate against the success of an opera- tion, Dr. Evans mentions the age of the patient, very few recovering who were under 2 years of age, while nearly half were saved between the ages of 6 and 12. Some practical hints are added relative to the details of the operation itself. Duncan, J.—On Paralysis of the Bronchial Muscles. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., May, i860. Dimcan beheves that long-continued inflammatory action may destroy the contractibihty of the bronchial muscular fibres, and records a case where the expiratory act was three times as long as the inspiratory, a sign which he considers distinctive of bronchial paralysis. In the cases in question after other means had failed, including electricity, extract of nux vomica had the best effect. Thorburn.—Cases of Idiopathic Pneumothorax with remarkable absence of bad Symptoms. Recovery. Brit. Med. J., June 2nd. Thorburn records a case which fell under his observation, where pneumothorax of the right side came on with no more symptoms than a sharp pain at the right side of the chest, and dyspnoea. It soon dimimshed and shifted its seat. On the second day after the pain had all but ceased, though the breathing on shght exertion was hurried, and the physical signs of pneumothorax were strongly marked. Recovery was nearly complete in about four months, his health has since been perfect, antt there is no discoverable sign of tubercular deposit. Another similar case is noticed. Vogt.—On the Treatment of Pneumonia by Veratria. Bull Gen de Therap., Jan. 30th, i860 .Brit, audFor. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, i860 Vogt thinks that the treatment of pneumonia by veratria is not only equal to other methods, but actually superior, as out of 100 well developed and serious cases, 8 only proved fatal. He gives -077 grain tiSfthe01 f,1UCC h°mS' Until th° productiou of vomiting or chminu- Priiuiam.—Observations on the Treatment of Asthma. Brit Med T June Qth, July 28th, Sept. ist, 29th, Nov. 17th, Dec. 29th. 'EEPORT OX PRACTICAL MKDICINK. :!1 t Fridham specially considers tlio mode of management of dyspeptic asthma, which ho treats hy sedatives and strict diet. He relates a case of extreme emaciation with bronchitis and emphysema occurring in a clergyman, above 70 years of age, who had always been desired to live generously to make up for the copious expectoration of the disease. This man was placed on a greatly restricted diet with Extr. Ilyoscy. gr. iij. quater die, afterwards changed for conium, and entirely lost his asthma, which previously had been constant, preventing him for years from lying down in bed at night, lie remarks on the greater liability of men to asthma than women, in the proportion of 80 per cent., according to his own experience. " Secondly, women who are liable to asthma have gout prevailing in their families in a larger proportion than men." Thirdly he observes that asthmatic people are for the most part, gifted with extraordinary energy and talents. Several cases are related which illustrate forcibly the advantage of strict and careful dieting, where the asthma has its origin in disorder of the digestive organs. In conclusion he illustrates the effect of atmospheric influence as an exciting cause, and notices some palliative remedies. Fuller.—On the successful Treatment of Whooping Cough hy increasing doses of Sulphate of Zinc and Belladonna. Lancet, July 28th. Fuller administers to children under three years of age, Extr. Bellad. gr. £ c, Zinci Sulph. gr. ^, quater die, and to children above that age, Extr. Bellad. gr. ^ c, Zinci Sulph. gr. i. The amoimt taken is increased by one dose every day, or every other day. The whoop ceases under this medication in 10-21 days. Dilatation of the.pupil does not require discontinuance of the remedy. Sharkey. —On the distinctive marks between Diphtheria and Croup. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 4th. Sharkey argues for the great difference between croup and diphtheria, (1) from the earlier period of life at which croup mostly occurs; (2) from the absence of any gangrenous tendency in croup; (3) from the non-occurrence of swelling of the cervical lymphatic glands in croup; (4) from the non-contagiousness of croup; (5) from the fauces in diph- theria being covered with false membrane. Lawford.—On the proper use of Stramonium in Hay Asthma.—Brit. Med. J., Aug. 18th. Lawford recommends inhalation of concentrated stramonium fumes in hay-asthma. The herb is to be washed, the smoke puffed into an inverted ale glass, and when this is full it is to be placed over the mouth, and a dec]) full inspiration taken. The result is a momentary sense of suffocation, then copious expectoration of ropy mucus and immediate relief. Skoda.—On the Besorpiion of Pleuritic Exudations. Allgem. Wiener Med. Zeitung., No. 4-7, 1859. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Aug. Skoda° is not favorable to thoracentesis, or subsequent iodine injec-2 Iff RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. tions, he prefers inunction with preparations of mercury, iodine, or copper. Traube, Munk.—Pulmonary Abscess; Cure; Death from Pleurisy. Deutsche Klinik, 2 and 3, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 302. Traube in Munk's report states, that flakes of pulmonary parenchyma visible to the naked eye, lying- in a puriform sputa are characteristic of abscess. These contain, as -shown by the microscope, much elastic tissue, and free, black or yellow, amorphous or crystalline pigment. In tuberculous sputa the flakes of parenchyma are only of microscopic size, and in gangrenous sputa the elastic fibres arc destroyed. Bergh.—(Edema of the Glottis terminatinqfavorably. Hospit. Tidende, No. 20, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 303. In Bergh's case considerable advantage was derived from scarification of the epiglottis, a means in which he has great confidence. He would also employ tracheotomy in bad cases, quoting Valleix's statement that fths of those who were operated on sufficiently early recovered, lie also recommends leeches to the vicinity of the os hyoides, but discountenances the application of lunar caustic. He contests the opinion that the exudation is limited to the upper orifice, and does not extend into the interior of the larynx. The expiration is less impeded than the inspiration, but is not quite free. Smith, A. H.—Dyspnoea as a Mechanical Cause of Conqestion of the Lungs. Brit, Med. J., Sept. 15th. Amer. Med. Times, July 21st. Smith observes that blood is drawn into the lungs as well as air, during inspiration, and if the entrance of air is obstructed the amount of blood entering the lungs may be greatly increased. He illustrates this by an experiment, in which an animal's trachea being tied, and one side of the chest opened, that lung was found but slightly con- gested, the other gorged with blood. In diseases which obstruct the access of air the same occurs. The best remedy he thinks would be to increase the amount of oxygen in the ah inspired. E. Smith.—Some Practical Questions in the Treatment of Phthisis. , Brit. Med. J., Oct. 6th. . Smith argues for the existence of a pretubercular stage of phthisis in which the mechanical, chemical, and vital action of the lungs is lessened, and they are prone to become " depositors of diseased pro- ducts." He proposes as a remedy the practice of forcible voluntary expansion of the lungs for ten minutes at a time twice a day, and states that the following benefits result, viz., diminished tendency to closure of the air-cells; possibly, the promotion of the absorption of deposits; increased vitality of the structures of air-eels 5 freer pulmo- nary circulation; more complete evolution of the carbonic acid retained m the air-cells and increased chemical and vital changes in the air- cells ; increased development and power of the inspiratory muscles and the direction of the patient's attention to the avoidance of shallow" and short inspiration. With regard to the profuse sweats, Smith findsEBPOBT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 21G that coffee, milk, fat, alcohol, beer, and wine are the foods which lessen the action of tho skin, while tea and vegetable food increase it. Further, if the perspiration have a marked acid odour, he gives alkalies or their salts, and regulates the amount of starchy food; if this is not the case he linds acids most useful. J. E. Morgan.—On the non-prevalence of Pulmonary Consumption in the Hebrides, and along the N. W. of Scotland. JJrit. and For. Med.- Ch. Rev., Oct. i860. Morgan draws attention to the rarity of phthisis along the N.W. coast of Scotland, as established by his own observations and the ex- perience of others. He shows that this exemption is the more striking as, according to Dr. Greenhow's researches, the mortality from phthisis is rather greater in the healthiest rural, than in the most unhealthy town districts. The possible causes are alluded to as (1) a mild and moist climate, (2) the exposure of the natives to the weather, (3) their clothing and diet, (4) the amount of ozone in the air, (5) some peculiarity of race, (6) the construction of the Highland cabins, and the manner in which they are heated. He inclines to believe that the latter cause is the most efficient, and gives reasons for the opinion that the inhalation of peat-smoke has much to do in preventing or checking the develop- ment of pulmonary tuberculosis. In Oban where coal is chiefly used as a fuel, phthisis is by no means uncommon. FoNSSAGRrvES.—On the Treatment of Phthisis in its febrile stages by the administration of Tartar Emetic. Lond. Med. Rev., Sept. Fonssagrives states that tartar emetic employed for a considerable period checks the local congestions or inflammations which are deve- loped around the crude tubercles, and prevents the tubercles from passing on to softening and suppuration. Opportunity is thus given i'< >r the use of cod oil and tonics. The appetite, digestion, and nutrition improve notably under the use of the tartar emetic. Wagner.—Numerous Bones in the Lungs. Archiv. f. Phys. Heilk., iii, 3, p. 411. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 33. Wagner found about 50 small bones, having true compact bone structure, scattered through both lungs of a male, »t. 26, dying of chronic endocarditis. They varied from the size of a millet seed to that of a pea, were of irregular, roundish form, not specially connected with bronchi, or vessels, nor did they lie exclusively in the interlobular tissue. Freund.— The Connection of certain Pulmonary Diseases with primary anomalies of the Costal Cartilages. Erlangen, 1859. Canst . Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 33. , . . . , Freund endeavours to show (1) that tuberculosis of the apices of the lungs may arise from primary early ossification of the first costal cartilage, which produces stenosis of the thorax and immobility of the ribs; and (2) that by primary elongation of the costal cartilages and the enlargement of the thorax thence resulting, vesicular emphysema may be produced.RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 217 Gerhardt.—On differences of the Percussion Sound of the Lungs, in silting or lying. Deutsche Klinik, No. ri, I859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 93. . Gerhardt states (1) that the tympanitic percussion note of caverns may, in the erect posture, become higher or deeper than in the recum- bent, and this difference may serve to distinguish it from the tympanitic sound of compressed lung tissue. (2) The non-tympanitic note of the lungs hi the vicinity of the liver is, in the erect posture, higher than in the recumbent. (3) This difference can sometimes be made out in chests of slender conformation as high as the clavicle. Lichtenfels.—On Percussion. Zeitsch. d. k. k. Gesellch. d. Aerzte zu Wien. No. 34, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 93. Lichtenfels states that the fulness of a percussion sound depends on the gradual decrease of its strength, and the degree of fulness is deter- mined by the slowness of the decrease. The tympanitic character consists in the gradual change from a murmur (geraiische) to a tone, and the degree of rapidity of this change determines the degree of that character. Czerjiak.—Contributions to Laryngoscopy. On the inspection of the Pharyngo-nasal Cavity, and of the Nasal ttssce through the Posterior Nares by means of small Mirrors. Wiener Wochenschr. No. 2, 10, 11, 16, 17, 32. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 104. Czermak relates a case of supposed nervous hoarseness in which a small dark, apparently soft, roundish tumour was distinctly perceived attached to the right corda vocalis. In a second case of chronic aphonia aud laryngeal dyspnoea, when laryngotomy had become necessary, a view of the exact situation of the contraction, and of the condition producing it was obtained by introducing a small reflector through a large canula into the wound, and so illuminating the larynx from below. Turk.—Communications respecting some cases of Laryngeal Lisease examined with the Laryngeal Speculum. Zeitschr. d. k. Ges. d. Aerzte, zu Wien. No. 11, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 104. Tiirk records a case of lupus of the epiglottis, one of diphtheritic ulceration of the vocal cords, one of syphilitic laryngeal affection with aphonia, one of complete aphonia as he believes from semi-paralysis of the lateral crico-arytenoid muscles, one of new growths of fibroid tissue on the true vocal cords with permanent complete aphonia, one of cedema of the glottis from typhus, and a seventh also of oedema of the glottis. In all these laryngoscopy was of essential service. On an Artifice in the examination of the Larynx.—Zeitschr. d. k. k. Ges. d. Aerzte zu Wien. No. 8, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 104. Tiirk describes several ways of altering the position of the larynx while examining it, so as to get a better view of its different parts. This is to be done mostly by an assistant.218 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. CorrON.— On the action of certain substances upon Phthisis. No. iv. Hydrochloric Acid. Med. T. and G., Nov. 17th. Cotton concludes that the mineral acids are well suited to a large number of phthisical cases, and that Acid. Mur. in doses of m. x-xv. bis vel ter. die is an important auxiliary. Trousseau.—On Sanguineous li/J'usions into the Pleura. Monit. d< k Sc. Med. Nos. 107, 109. Med. T. and G., Nov. 17th. Trousseau states that blood effused in the pleura quickly coagulates, does not act in any notable degree as an irritant, and is quickly absorbed. Wounds of the lung which do not divide any large vessel were found, in experiments on horses, to become speedily obliterated along their track by a fibrinous clot, while the lips of the wound are covered by a fibrinous disc adhering to the pleura. In traumatic effusions into the pleura Trousseau counsels absolute rest and a some- what rigid diet and no interference, except in the case where a violent inflammation has arisen from the simultaneous introduction of blood and air, when paracentesis should at once be performed, and iodine injected. Dutciien thinks the red line on the gums when present an infallible sign of tubercle. It was present in 48 out of 58 cases presenting the physical signs. Lancet, Oct. 8th. Froriep.—Local Treatment of Catarrh. Froriep's Notizen, i Vol. No. 24, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 263. Froriep recommends the use of calomel gr. i. as snuff every half horn-, or in more severe cases inunction with ungt. hydrarg. Droste recommends in chronic cases a snuff composed of Trisnit. Bismuth 51. Pidv. Glycyrrh. oiss.-sij. Sulph. Iod. gr. v-vij. Bouchut.—New symptom of Group indicating Tracheotomy. Annali Universali di Medic. Milan, Oct. 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 266. Bouchut points out the occurrence of general hyperesthesia of the skin in the last stage of croup, resulting from the increase of C02 in the blood. Pith A. On the separation of the Mucous Membrane in Laryngotomy. Zeitschr. d. k. k. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte zu Wicn. No. 11, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 266. In Pitha's case the thickened mucous membrane was detached to the extent of a square inch from the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, which were necrosed to the same extent. In consequence of tins Pitha failed to penetrate into the airtube at first, and only succeeded by freely enlarging the wound downwards. Galiavarbin.—Statistical documents on the Mortality in Pneumonia. Gaz. Med. de Lyon, Nov. 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. 111, p. 273. GaUavardin gives official reports from the hospitals of Vienna, I aris, Lyons, Rouen, Nantes, Copenhagen, Holland, and Italy, showing theRESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 219 mortality of pneumonic cases according to the treatment; period of disease when treatment was commenced; age, season of the year, medical constitution, type of disease, complications, sex, in the pregnant compared with the uniinpregnated state, and according to the previous condition of health, and the constitution of the patients. The paper, though not embracing nearly all the available data, may be referred to with advantage, but it is impossible to give its results in an abstract. Galassi.—On Fibrinous Broncho-pneumonia. Annali univers. di Medic, Milan, Dec. 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 273. Towards the end of an epidemic of croupous bronchitis attending influenza, Galassi was led to employ cupping to the chest in the asphyxial stage, and with surprisingly good effects. OrroLZER.—On the Causes and Treatment of Dyspn&a in Pneumonia. Spitals-Zeitung, No. 8, 1859. Canst Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 273. Oppolzer recognises various causes for the dyspnoea. Where it depends on great congestion, or the rapid occurrence of exudation, is attended with very copious and bloody sputa, and with notable lividity V. S. is inchoated. V. S. cannot it is true diminish the total amount of exudation, but it causes it to take place much more slowly, and thus lessens the dyspnoea. Another cause of dyspnoea is attendant pleuritis for which leeches, warm fomentations, and opiates are serviceable. If suffocation threaten during the period of defervescence an emetic of antimony and ipecacuan must be given without delay, except in special cases, where an emetic would be dangerous. Owing to the greater amount of blood thrown on the remaining healthy lung an acute serous oedema is apt to occur, which is to be met in robust individuals by a free V. S. This is, however, to be foreborne if the pulse be irregular, and the respiration intermitting. The V. S. is to be followed by deri- vation to the bowels, skin, and kidneys; Oppolzer prefers the former Where the dyspnoea is more febrile than dependent upon local changes Oppolzer gives small doses of digitalis and ipecacuan., and directs ablutions with cold acidulated water. Traube.—Pneumonia treated with digitalis. Deutsche Klinik, No. 47, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 273. Traube remarks that digit, acts with very various rapidity in different cases. Generally, if given to a strong person, and wlhle the disease is at its height, it takes a much longer time to act than in chronic cases, or where an acute disease is near its close. Bkaxdes.—On the treatment of pneumonia. Virch. Archiv., 15 Vol., 1858 p. 210. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 273. Brandos is little inclined to confide in statistics of various modes of treatment in pneumonia from having found that in the same wards and under the same treatment the mortality which in 1856 had been 5-4 per cent., amounted, in 1857, to 31 per cent. V. S. is useful, but only in appropriate cases. In asthenic pneumonia and in infantile Pliunb. Acct. is a remedy of great value.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 220 C. G. Koiieiiardt.— On the treatment of pneumonia. Berlin, 1859. Canst. Jahrd., Vol. iii, p. 273. Kohlhardt treats especially of bloodletting in pneumonia, and main- tains that V. S. hi certain cases is an excellent symptomatic remedy. BouitOADE.—Diagnostic researches respecting the fust period of pulmonary tuberculosis. Gazz. Med. Ital. Lombard, No. 25, 1859. Canst. Jabrb., Vol. iii, p. 283. Bourgade confirms from his experience the value of interrupted (saccadee) respiration as the earliest auscultatory sign of phthisis. Bottini.—On some remedies lately introduced for the cure of phthisis. Gazz. Med. Ital. Stati Sardi, No. 1, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 283. Bottini found phosphite of lime or soda, as well as Band's phospholin quite inert, but obtained good results from chloride of sodium and iodine in milk. Anderl.—On thoracentesis. Deutsche Klinik, No. 3-12, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p, 286. Anderl advocates thoracentesis, denying that absorption even of serous effusions is other than a rare event, and endeavouring to show by statistics that in the majority of cases (40 out of 64) the operation was more or less beneficial. He holds the entrance of air into the pleural cavity to be quite innocuous, and prefers the simplest mode of operating without any particular apparatus. He thinks it essential that there should be constantly a free outlet for the pus, &c, and advises rather a free incision than leaving a trocar in the wound. The operation is not to be too long delayed, especially when by an explo- ratory puncture certainty can be obtained of the existence of pus in the pleura. Tuberculosis, advanced age, debility, cachexia, the long exist- ence of the disease, seem to him no contra-indication. Moller.—Report on the Royal Med. Poliklinik at Konigsberg for 1856 and 1857. Konigsberg, Med. Jahrb., i Vol., 3 Part, 1859, p. 391. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 289. Moller is satisfied from careful trial of the efficacy of the well-known combination of tr.-lytt, tr.-cinchon, and tr.-camph-co. in whooping cough. Guntner. On Abccsses in the Anterior Mediastinum. Oestcrr. Zcitschr. f. prakt. Heilkde., No. 10-12, 1859. Canst, Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 290. Guntner gives an account of the disease from observation of 4 cases; in none of them was any cause discovered except a chill. The symp- toms are such as result from pressure on the walls of the mediastinum. The chief danger is from plcuritis, pericarditis, or pya?mia. Aran.—Clinical observations on Pleurisy and Thoracentesis. Gaz. des Hopit. No. 98 and 99. Med. T. and Gaz. Dee. 15th. Aran thinks that the only contra-indication to thoracentesis is the existence of gangrene of the lung or pleura, 111 wind. ease, tl.e Hind escaping from the wound, has such irritant properties,.that,it.induces a diffused phlegma which proves fatal. He conhrnies Louis s law that221 KESriRATORY SYSTEM. regular uncomplicated pleurisy, which always admits of cure, occupies the left side of the chest, and believes that in 95 cases out of 100 right- sided pleurisy indicates the existence of tubercle. Dkasciie.—On the relation and the prognostic import of Hopes in Pneumonia. Oester. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 1859, 50. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 314. In 100 patients Drasche observed a mortality among the one-sided pneumonias of 19 per cent, where there was no herpes, and 3-2 per cent, when herpes existed. In double pneumonias 25 per cent, died who had herpes, and 20 per cent, who had none. Lussana.—Angina pectoris; its relations and analogies with Thoracico- brachial Neuralgia, as well as its points of difference. Gaz. Lomb. 46-48, 1858 ; 9-13, 15-18, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 306. From the relation of a well-marked fatal case with autopsy F. proceeds to a detailed examination of his subject. He describes the anatomical disposition of the nerves which he considers to be primarily and secondarily concerned, and traces the production of the various sympathetic and consensual phenomena depending on them irritation. His conclusion is that angina pectoris may be dynamic or organic; in most cases it is organic, especially resulting from a mechanical mutation, caused by a calcareous degeneration of the coronary arteries of the heart, or some similar cause acting on the cardiac plexuses. He regards it, therefore, as essentially a neuralgia, and believes that it proves fatal by cramp-like contraction of the heart when death occurs during an attack, or by paralysis of the heart when death occurs in an interval after repeated attacks. The characters of dynamic Angina pectoris are that it occurs mostly in early life, affects equally males and females, and yields readily to narcotics ; in all these points it differs from organic. Millet.—On Kermcs and Digitalis in the treatment of Pneumonia, admin- istered in gradually increasing doses. Bullet, de Therap. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 55. Mulct gives to adults gr.| of each drug every hour for the first day, and increases the dose daily until on the 9th day the patient takes gr.f. Improvement generally is marked by the 6th or 8th day, when the circulation is evidently aiTected by the digitalis. The remedies are to be continued for some time, not to be abruptly omitted. If delirium and ataxic symptoms appear, he gives musk and camphor. This method has proved very successful with patients of all ages, both the very young and old. Among 87 cases of children there occurred but one death, although 53 were very grave, attended with marked delirium and adynamia. Millet almost entirely eschews bloodletting. Waters— Observations on the morbid anatomy, pathology, and determining cause of Emphysema of the Lungs. Brit. Med. J., Nov 24th Dec. 8th, 15th. ^ ' After a statement of Lacnnec and Gairdner's views, on the in- andREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 222 cx-piratoiy theories of tho production of emphysema, Waters gives his reasons for adopting-the latter. Those are, that in a person whose chest is exposed during- the act of coughing a distinct bulging* is seen pro- duced above the clavicle; that in M. Groux during a violent expiratory act the lung of one side came forward into the sternal fissure as a distinct elongated tympanitic tumour; and that M. ('uillot has observed in ic infants suffering with long-continued spasmodic cough subpleural emphysema and even escape of air into the mediastinum and neck. He also adopts the opinion that some kind of degeneration of the pulmonary tissue takes place which precedes and predisposes to emphysema. Guitard.— Vomica cured by Iodine inhalations. Journ. de Med. dc Tou- louse. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 109. Guitard records a remarkable case in which a cavity, the result undoubtedly of tuberculous disease was all but cicatrized, and the general health completely restored under the use of iodine given inter- nally and by inhalation. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM, INEEX. Leared.—The causes and treatment of Imperfect Digestion, pp. 224, London, Churchill. Lebert.—Handbook of Practical Medicine. Vol. ii, Tubingen, 1859. Leubuscher.—Handbook of Clinical Medicine. 1, 2, Leipzig, 1859. Niemeyer.—Compendium of Special Pathology and Therapeutics. Vol. i. Part 1. The diseases of the digestive tract, of the liver and spleen, with especial respect to physiology, and pathological ana- tomy. Berlin, 1859. IIartmann.—Compendium of Special Pathology and Therapeutics considered from their clinical aspect. Frankfurt a. m. Cazin.—Case of Diphtheria successfully treated by Garlic and Lemon-juice, internally and externally. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., i860, p. 241. Basslinger, Eden.—On the preparation and medical use of Pepsin. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 38. McCombie.—Case of Cancerous Ulceration of Oesophagus perforating the Aorta. Lancet, Feb. 4th, i860. Brinton.—Clinical remarks; Complications and Varieties of cirrhosis of the Liver. Lancet, Feb. 25th. Bouchut.—Abscess in the Iliac fossa in Children. Brit. Med. J., March 3rd, i860. Boys de Loury.—On the results of Retention of frees in the large Intestines, especially in the Ca-cum. Gaz. JJebdom., v, 28, 185S. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 328. Roux J.—Complete obstruction of the Intestine co-existing with an inguinal hernia. Gaz. des Hupit. 32, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 330. Burr.—Ileus from Intestinal obstruction resulting from old adhesions. Wiirtemb. Corr. Bl., 35, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 333. Bunzel.—Case of Axial Ttvisting and Entwining of the Intestines. Ocsterr.223 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM, INDEX. Zeitschr. f. prakt. neilk. v, 31, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, Kr\.uss3— Case of Intestinal Intussusception from a Tumour of the Intestine. ' Wiir.tcmb.Corr. Bl., 28, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 335. Cr evelynd, W. F.—Case of ulcerative Stomatilis in an Adult, terminating fatally in sloughing phagedena (cancrum Oris) with remarks. Lancet, 'March 24th. . Young, J-—Case of Abdominal Abscess, ivith Extensive Mortification and Recovery. Edin. Med. J., April, i860, p. 943. Forster. On Cylindrical Epithelical Cancroid of the Stomach, and its relation to the Flattened Epithelial Cancroid of the Skin. Virchow's Archiv., Aug., 1858. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April, Lagxeau.—On Syphilitic Tumours of the Tongue. Gaz. Hebd. vi, 32, 33, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 45. Brixtox.—Clinical remarks; Complicated Cancer of the Stomach. Lancet, April 28th. Johxsox.—Case of Intussusception of the Ileum into the Cazcum and ascend- ing colon; Death; Autopsy. Med. T. and Gaz., May 1st. Croskert.—Case of Ascites, in ivhich nature effected a cure by Spontaneous Rupture of the Abdominal Parietes at a point midway between the Um- bilicus and Pubes ; icith remarks on the treatment of Ascites. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Science, May, p. 305. Traube and Muxk.—Perforation of the Vermiform process, Incipient Sup- puration in the Liver, regular Intermittent Fever. Deutsche Klinik. 51, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrd., Vol. 106, p. 179. Brixtox.—Clinical remarks—Fatal Peritonitis. Lancet, May 26th, i860. Maclachlax.—Oesophageal Fistula communicating with the exterior of the right side of the Chest through the Lung and Pleural Cavity. Glasgow Med. J., Jan., i860, p. 432. Leverett.—On the use of Raw Meat as a remedy. Charlestown Med. J. and Rev., March, i860. Brit, and For. Mcd.-Ch. Rev., July, p. 255. Rottex, Lang, Kolb.—Three cases of Perityphlitis terminating favorably. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 31. Hixtox.—Gallstone voided through the Abdominal Parietes. Brit. Med. J., Aug. 4th. Pardon.—On use of Ilypophosphates in Gastric Remittent Fever. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 4th. De Ricci.—On Alum and Ice in Hamatemesis. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Science, Aug., i860. A fish bone lodged in the (Esophagus, perforating the Diaphragm and Heart, resulting in death. Lancet, Aug. 25. Barton.—Case of Diphtheria. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Sept. 1st. American modes of using eggs in disease. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Sept. 1 st. Rennie.—Connection between Intestinal Ulceration and the Elimination of Febrile Poisons by Internal Eruptions. Lancet, Sept. 8th. Grand-Boulogne.—Ice as an application in Diphtheria. Presse Med. Beige, No. 13. Med. T. and Gaz., Sept. 8th. Aldridge.—On a case of Obstruction of the Bowels from adhesion to the Uterus. Lancet, Sept. 15t.l1.224 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Lowe. On Sarcina Ventriculi. Brit, and For. Mcd.-Ch. Rev., Oct., i860. KUOHENMEISTER.—On the Conversion of Cysticercus Celluloses into Toutia Solium. Deutsche Klinik, No. 20. Med. T. and Gaz., Oct. 27th. Mayer.—On Oxalate of Cerium and its Medicinal Application. Procter's Amcr. J. of Pharmacy, xxxii, 1. Schmidt's Jalirb., Vol. 108, p. 161. Innhausee.—Wine Enemmta in Dyspepsia (case). Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 166. Copemann.—Remarks on Obstruction of the Bowels, ivith cases. Brit. Med. J., Dec. 1st, 8th, 25th, 22nd. Blair.—Case of Intestinal Worms, terminating fatally. Edin. Med. J., Dec. Bergouhnioux.—On an hitherto vndescribed Herpetic Affection of the Tongue. Journ. du Progres, No. 17, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 171. Servent.—On the treatment of Membranous Angina by Hydrochloric Acid (Strasbourg). Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 172. WiisT.—Dissertation on Noma. Berlin, 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 172. Middeldorpf.—On Polypi of the Oesophagus and on the first successful extirpation of a Tumour of this kind. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 176. Nicolas.—On Dyspepsia. Gaz. des Hopitaux, 1859, No. 113. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 177. Roux.—Note on the use of Diastase in certain Dyspepsias. Monit. des Hopit., Vol. 7, No. 55, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 177. Castelnau.—On the efficacy of Diastase in Dyspepsia, and in some forms of Vomiting. Monit. des Sciences, Tome 1, No. 26, Oct. 20th) 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 177. Gouriet.—Lead Colic and Glazed Vessels. Gaz. des Hopit., No. 114, Sept. 20th, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 188. Schwartz.—A case of Proctostenosis. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 188. Lambl.—Microscopic Examinations of the Intest. Excretions. Pragcr Vierteljahrschrift, Vol. i, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 188. Pelous.—The different modes of Treatment of Accidental Intestinal Occlusion situated above the Rectum. Strasbourg. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 189. Nussbaum.—Liberation of a Strangulated Intestine by operation. Acrzt. Intelligenzblatt, No. 47. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 189. Soulier.—On Volvulus; general considerations with respect to two cases. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, 189. Bourdon.—Biliary Calculus of a considei-able size making its way into the digestive tube ^through the perforated walls of the Gall Bladder and Transverse Colon. Gaz. des Hopit., No. 72, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 190. Batalla.—Tumour of the right Inguinal Region containing Lumbrici. Gazz. Med. Ital. Stati Sardi., No. 11, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 190. Buignet.— Chemical Examination of a milky liquid draivn off by paracent. abd.from a girl 8 years old. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 197. Skoda.—Etiology and Prognosis of Peritonitis in general. Cliniqne Europ., No. 8, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 198. Herrmann.—Remarks respecting the treatment of Acute Peritonitis. Med. Ztg. Russlands, No. io, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 198.DIGESTIVE SYSTEM, INDEX. 225 V. Dahl.—Case of Peritonitis with Perforation terminating favourably. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 298. Second-Fereol.—On Perforation of the Anterior Abdominal Wall in cases of Pei-itonitis. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 198. Harris.—On a case of Typhlo-enteritis. Lancet, Dec. 15th. Russell, J.—Cases of Stricture of the Rectum or lower part of the Colon Brit. Med. J., Dec. 15th. LTanff.—Description of the Dysenteric Epidemic which prevailed in the latter part of the summer of 1859, in the district of Kirchheim. Wurtemb Corresp. blatt. 21, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 318. Roser. On Dysentery and Cholera Infantilis in 1859. Wurtemb Corresp. blatt. 19, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 318. Roux.— Use of Diastase in certain Dysp>epsias. Monit. des Hopit. Ann par Jamain, i860, p. 92. Curran. - Outline of a Case of peculiar displacement of the Stomach, resultinq probably from congenital deficiency of the diaphragm, and leading to convulsions and death from extravasation of blood on the Brain. Lancet Dec. 29th. ' Darrach.—Aromatic Sulphuric Acid in the treatment of Tapeworm Americ. J. of Med. Sc., Oct. i860. Lee, C.—On the Therapeutical uses of the Oxalate of Cerium. Americ. J. ol Med. be, Oct. i860, p. 391. Geoghega^—On Idiopathic Glossitis. Dublin Med. Press, July 2 e, i860 j£L£f^TJUaSUmaA ^ r?/l°lera md in the TenLus of f&o'p 4^49 Pit'' I§59" Ann' de Th4™V-> Von Dahl — Strychnine in Chronic Diarrhoea. Journ. de Med de Bruxelles. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 69. Van Holbeck.—Scrophularia Minor in Hemorrhoids. Presse Med beige. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 168. Trapani.—Subcarbonate of Iron in Arsenical Poisoning. Gaz. Med de Pans. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 233 U e S^f^S InfUS°ria ^ Mm' Archiv- f- Path- Anat- ^n. ^2££;feand ~>-*—• *. 0RT W MetSetSSf S6o °f *~ *the *~* ^SSO^^T^ ^ of the digestive system. ligature of the portal vein in rabbits, he found in^wS *<n?** circulation and believes that this arrest 18^7^^^/ the of the gastnc vessels, and particularly by bJ^S^JS^S 15REBOOT ON PKACTICAL MEDICINE. 226 increase of the ulcer ho attributes to the gastric juice acting upon its surface. The pain of gastric ulcer seems to him of neuralgic character, and not to he explained by the size, or depth, or seat of the ulcer, but to depend mainly on the natural susceptibility of the sufferer. Sanderson.—On Diphtheritic Sore Throat. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. i860. After describing the structure of tlie mucous membrane, Dr. Sander- son observes that having " to do with two distinct structures in tlie mucous membrane proper, and a third in intimate relation with it, viz., the sub-mucous tissue, we should expect to be able to distinguish three corresponding series of pathological results of exudation," viz., the catarrhal, croupous, and submucous. He distinguishes concrete exuda- tions affecting the mucous membrane into («) the true fibrinous, (b) the granular or amorphous. Such exudations either on its surface, or m its substance, form the essential lesions of the mucous membrane in (1) superficial sloughing of the mucous membrane; (2) superficial true croupous concretion; and (3) superficial granular concretion. Several illustrative cases are given with observations on the minute anatomy of the diseased states. In his next paragraph the author proceeds to show that the 3 states above mentioned correspond generally to those varieties of the disease distinguished by authors as the croupous, the ulcerative, and the simple forms of pellicular sore throat. The croupous angina is the true diptherite of Bretonneau (croup descendant of many other authors), a disease which generally commences in the pharynx or fauces, rarely in the larynx, and is marked by the tendency to extend rapidly downwards; it is not accompanied by any constitutional symptoms, and if fatal, invariably destroys its victim by suffocation. The purely ulcerative epidemic sore-throat is more rare than the other two; Dr. Sanderson has had the opportunity of studying an epidemic affecting nearly 1000 persons, in which by far the greater number of mild cases were entirely of this character. Destructive ulceration of the membrana propria, when it exists in its most intense form, gives rise to that kind of sore throat designated angina maligna or gan- grenosa, but between this and the trivial lesion just described every degree of ulceration is met with. The third variety of lesion of the mucous membranes—the granular superficial infiltration of the epithe- lium—characterises in its simple form the moBt common cases of epidemic sore-throat, those in which the tonsils, uvula, soft palate, and neighbouring parts are covered with a soft or at all events never tough or leathery coating, having little or no tendency to extension. These cases usually do well under any or no treatment. The same deposit is, however, met with in fatal cases. In angina gangrenosa the symptoms are those of purulent infection, not of tlie adynamia of fatal diphtheria. Respecting the relation of albuminuria to diphtheritic sore throat, Dr. Sanderson controverts the opinions of M. Bouehut and Dr Wade The former states, that albuminuria m diphtheria is a sign of commencement of purulent infection, and coincides with a very great rrravity of the disease. Dr. Sanderson gives a brief record of 8 cases, hi one or two of which albumen existed 11. large quantities m the urine, although the disease was luild. In one case the urine was foundDIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 227 loaded with albumen 18 hours after the disease first showed itself. Dr. Wade's opinion he refutes by narrating a case of severe diphtheria in which the urine was analysed for urea and chlorides during the acme of the disease and during the period of convalescence. The whole quantity of urine for 24 hours was collected. The results were, that at the •acme of the disease, when the urine was intensely albuminous, when there was complete anorexia, and the ingesta were reduced to a minimum, the quantity of urea excreted in a period of 24 hours was about twice as great as that excreted during a similar period when convalescence was established, and he was eating with appetite the ordinary diet of the hospital with extras. The amount of chlorides was also nearly doubled. It is evident from this that the albuminuria by no means involves a state of uraemia. Leudet.—Pathological and Clinical Researches regarding Ulceration and Perforation of the Appendix Vermiformis. Archiv. Gen., Aug., Sept. 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Eev., Jan., i860. Professor Leudet has met with 18 cases of ulceration of the mucous lining of the appendix vermiformis, and is of opinion that phthisis is its most frequent cause. Phthisis existed also in 6 out of 13 cases of perforation which he observed. He has not yet met with a case in which typhoid fever caused perforation. Rilliet.—On Dilatation of the Stomach. Gaz. Hebdomad., Nos. 17, 18, 20, 1859. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 21st, i860. Rilliet details 2 cases of dilatation of the stomach which have come under his observation. In one there was an ulcer at the level of the pylorus, in the other there was a stricture probably from the cicatriza- tion of an ulcer. He states, however, that it is by no means essential for dilatation of the stomach to be associated with narrowing of the pylorus. The characteristic symptoms are vomitings, more or less copious, occurring at intervals of 2—15 days, and the condition of the abdomen, as ascertained by physical examination, before and after the attacks of vomiting. Painful and excessively acid eructations and regurgitations are also observed. The course of the disease is chronic. Cure is possible if there be not organic disease. The treatment consists in careful regulation of the diet, only small quantities of easily digesti- ble substances being taken at one time; in the administration of suitable stimulants and peptic remedies; and in the use of electricity and compressive bandages to the abdomen. Nei.aton.— On Syphilitic St?-icture of the Rectum. Allg. Wiener Med. Ztg., 24, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 51. Nelaton remarks as the peculiarities of syphilitic stricture of the rectum, that it is situated i£—2 inches from the anus, that its form is that of a double funnel, that there is a sero-purulent discharge from the anus occasioned by ulcerations of the mucous surface; that the fasces are apt to be liquid, and discharged without notable difficulty, and that complications with fistulas and condylomata are frequent. Middei.dokpf.— On Polypi of the Oesophagus. Dublin Q. J. of Med. So Feb., i860.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 228 In a paper on polypi of the oesophagus, Middeldorpf enumerates dysphagia, emaciation, oesophageal inflammation, nausea, vomiting, and occasional rising of the polypus into the throat as the chief signs. He reviews the various modes of treatment, and gives the preference to direct removal hy excision combined with ligature to prevent haemor- rhage. He advises removal to be performed by the galvanic cautery. (Esophagotomy he thinks too dangerous. Gauster.—A Contribution to the Statistics of Diarrhoea, with remarks on its import in Sanitary Police. Wicn Ztschr., N. F. ii, 35, 36, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 181. Gauster details his experience of epidemic diarrhoea prevailing at Stein, in Carniola, in 1856 and 1856. The deaths were 48 out of 371 cases, and more than one-tenth of the whole population was attacked. Of the adults, males and females were affected in about equal proportions. More than seven times as many children were attacked as adults. The greatest number of deaths occurred in children under 1 year of age, the number dying between 1st and 5th years was double of that for the next decade. The disease lasted 3—4, even 10 weeks. In numerous cases it supervened on pertussis and measles, or on simple intestinal catarrh. In the commencement of the whooping cough, and generally in the first week after the onset of the measles, the diarrhoea broke out. Cases of the latter kind were more favourable and terminated sooner than when the disease was not preceded by measles. Roser.—Remarks on Dysentery, especially respecting its paralytic form. Wurtemb. Corr., Bl. 30, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 183. Roser describes a form of dysentery attended not unfrequently with paralysis. Nothing is said of the state of the great nervous centres, but he is inclined to attribute the paralysis, which does not seem to have been complete, to the contact of the inflamed transverse colon with the solar plexus lying behind it. This part of the intestine was found drawn backwards and covered by the lower border of the stomach, and the inflammation especially concentrated upon it. If the ascending and descending colon were equally affected with the trans- verse, and if the latter was not displaced, paralytic phenomena were not observed. The author praises a calomel treatment, but seems to have trusted a good deal to an expectant. Roux.—Complete obstruction of the Intestine co-existing with an Inguinal Hernia. Gaz. des Hopit. 32, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 330. Roux relates a fatal case of intestinal obstruction, the ccecum, ascending, and transverse colon being greatly distended, but no kind of stricture, or disease of the intestinal coat existing, as proved by the autopsy. Durr.—Ileus from Intestinal Obstruction resulting from Old Adhesions. Wurtemb, Corr., Bl. 35, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 333. In Diirr's case fatal ileus appears to have been occasioned by matting together of the intestines by old adhesions, aided by a constricting229 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. fibrous band which crossed the left colon and very much narrowed its canal This band passed from the apex of a loop of the ileum to the peritoneum over the spleen. The sides of this bop were adherent, and the chief obstruction seemed to have been at this point, as lib. of mercury wliich been given was found above it, together with fecal liquid, and the canal was much distended. Yosa.—Gangrene and Detachment of a portion of Intestine. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 335. Voss's patient, on the 20th day of his illness, passed by stool a gangrenous piece of intestine consisting of 10 inches of the ileum, the whole coecum, and a part of the ascending colon. Recovery went on well. Ixman.—On Morning Sickness, its Significance as a Symptom. Brit. Med. J., March 24th. Inman refers the occurrence of morning sickness to some deteriora- tion of vital power, especially of the brain and stomach. He cites instances of its affecting men as well as pregnant women. As remedies, he recommends those which improve the condition of the patient generally, improve the steadiness of the circulation in the brain, and the tone of the stomach, and diminish the undue sensibility of the weak organs. Treitz.—On TJraimic Intestinal Affections. Prag. Vierteljahrschr. lxiv, p. 143, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 40. Treitz describes the whole intestinal tract in ursemic patients as in a state of chronic blenorrhcea, or catarrh, with more or less intense con- gestion. The mucous surface is irritated by the ammoniacal contents; in parts it becomes sloughy, gangrenous, or ulcerated, sometimes even perforations occur; sometimes dysentery is set up with suppuration and ulceration; sometimes again, especially in the flexures of the colon, a state is met with, which Treitz calls maceration-dysentery, and which is characterised by pretty extensive, roundish patches of loss of substance, whose base is formed by the submucous or muscular coat, and whose edges are sharply defined and softened to transparent jelly. Dropsy existed, together with catarrh, blenorrhoea, and hydro- rhosa, in about Jths of the 220 cases examined, about as often together with follicular and maceration-dysentery, with croupous and ulcerative dysentery it was present in 57 per cent., and with sloughing in 41-6 per cent. In some experiments upon dogs, it was found that when the blood was saturated with urea, that which was introduced into the intestine rapidly underwent decomposition, while in healthy animals it was absorbed unchanged, and no ammoniacal reaction was obtained. The same, no doubt, occurs in M. Brightu and analogous states. The true ursemic state of the blood should be distinguished, the author thinks, from that produced by the absorption of ammonia. The former he would term Urarmia, the latter Ammoniaimia. The principal object of treatment is to prevent, by chemical means, the decomposition of the urea in the intestinal canal, and to fix, in the form of salts, that which is already formed.KKPOirr ON 1MIACTICAE MEDICINE. 230 IIOWITZ.—Case of escape of Air into the Peritoneal Cavity after perforation of the Wall of the. Stomach hi/ an Ulcer. IIosp. Tidcnde, No. 16, 1H59. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 43. After tin; details of his case, Itowit/. proceeds to point out the points of diagnosis bet ween accumulation of air in tlie intestines, and disten- sion of the peritoneal cavity by it. In the latter case, the abdomen is more uniformly distended, the hand applied to the surface experiences a peculiar elastio sensation, and the normal hepatic dulness may be entirely ahsent, and replaced by a tympanitic sound, continuous with the pulmonary resonance. In the former case, besides the absence of the symptoms that have been mentioned, some distended intestinal convolutions can manifestly be made out through the abdominal parietes. Isid. Buys.—On a Cause of Death in aged or very weakly Persons apt to escape Notice. Journ. dc Bruxelles, No. 28, p. 359, April, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 93. Isid. Buys draws attention to the danger of aged or feeble persons, or those whose mental faculties are in any way impaired, being suffo- cated by morsels of food, &c, in the act of swallowing. Schottin.—On Fermentation in the Stomach. Arch. d. Heilk. i, p. 109, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 177. In 5 patients affected with chronic gastric catarrh, Schottin found the matters vomited when the stomach was empty, or nearly so, to contain always butyric acid, and once in a drunkard, acetic. Muriatic and lactic acids were always absent. He regards the two first mentioned acids as products of fermentative chauge affecting the gastric mucus and epithelium, and recommends alcohol, muriatic, and sulphuric acids, as means of arresting this process, and improving digestion. Kennedy.—On the Condition of the Intestine in Typhoid Fever. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Juue 1st. Kennedy's case presented all the signs of typhoid fever, and sank on the 21st day; but there was found no intestinal ulceration, though Peycr's patches were developed to some extent. Smith.—Brandy Injections in Cholera. Med. T. & Gaz., June 23rd, i860. Smith recommends encmata of brandy and strong green tea after each intestinal evacuation in cholera. It controls the diarrhoea, and induces rapid reaction. He also gives calomel, quinine, and camphor in a pill every half-hour. Munciimeyer.—On Typhlitis and Perityphlitis and their Sequela: Deutsche Klinik. 5—10, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 30. Munchmcyer advises, in the treatment of typhlitis and perityphlitis, evaeuant remedies, as 01. Ricin. and Calomel to be continued as long as the painful tumour exists. In cases of great dilatation with msuperablo obstruction an artificial anus is to be made, which, though below the231 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. constricted part, is not irrational, because after the coecum is emptied its position is changed, and the ilio-ccecal valve is no longer closed. Peri- tonitis is to be met by local and general bleeding, and cold or warm applications, the purgatives being omitted. When nlcers have formed, he advises entire rest, and strict diet,;with calomel gr.^—| bis vel ter. die, and blisters to the ccccal region. If signs of perforation appear, opium is to be given in full doses gr. \—i. o. seinihora until the pains greatly diminish, and then at longer intervals. Trousseau.—On Epidemic Dysentery. Gaz. des Ilopit. 10, 14. Med. T. & Gaz., Aug. 4th. Trousseau considers epidemic dysentery as the most murderous of all diseases of the kind, and states that its causes may be quito inappre- ciable. In the matter of treatment, be strongly disfavours tbe rapid arrest of the flux by opium, whicb occasions the appearance of typhoid symptoms. Bretouneau's treatment by sulphate of soda, and the English mode by calomel, have both proved successful. Ipecacuanha he seems to discard. The administration of sufficient nourishment in the form of soups, barley and rice water, he deems of vital importance.' De Ricci.—On Alum and Ice in Hcematemesis. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Aug. i860. In De Ricci's case profuse hemorrhage, apparently from a gastric ulcer, had nearly proved fatal, but was at last arrested by full doses of a bun repeated every 3 hours with ice, and a bladder of ice to the epigastrium, while stimulants and food were administered solely by the rectum. A relapse occurred after a pause of 95 hours, and it was not until no food bad been administered by the mouth for 140 hours that the patient arrived at a state of safety. He recovered perfectly. Carter.—Some Suggestions for the Improvement of Paracentesis Abdom. m Cases of Ascites. Med. T. & Gaz., Sept. 15th. Carter recommends the use of a fine trocar introduced obliquely up- wards, the removal of only a small quantity of fluid sufficient to rebeve distension, and the earlier employment of paracentesis. He objects against the present method the danger of peritonitis, the shock to the system produced by tbe evacuation of so large an amount of fluid, the frequent oozing of serum through the wound, and the tendency to congestion and re-effusion in consequence of the blood-vessels having lost then- support. Klchenmeister.—On the Conversion of Cysticercus Cellulosa: into Tamia Solium. Deutsche Klinik., No. 20. Med. T. and Gaz., Oct. 27th. Kuchenmcister administered to a criminal measly pork on Nov. 24th 1859, and January 18th, i860, and made the autopsy March 31st Almost 50 per cent, of the cysticerci were found in the condition of tapeworms. The prisoner was in good health, his muscles contained no cysticerci. Sappey and RoBm.—On Vascular Anastomoses in Cirrhosis of the Liver Bullet, de 1'Academic do Med. T. xxiv, p. 943. Canst. Jahrb' Vol. 11, p. 36EEPOKT ON PRA.OTI0AL MEWCrNE. 232 Sappey denies that the umhilical vein takes any part in forming a communication between the portal vein and those of the abdominal walls in cirrhosis of the liver. What authors have described as the umbilical vein in such cases is probably an enlarged vein belonging to the accessory portal discovered by Sappey. These run from the abdo- minal wall and the diaphragm through the teres and suspensory liga- ments to the portal vein branches. Another group reaches the liver by the longitudinal fissure passing along the umbilical cord. One of these veins opens constantly into the left branch of the portal vein at the same level as the point of junction of the obliterated umbilical vein. This vein was in two cases as large as the radial artery. Sappey enumerates numerous anastomoses between the portal and the general venous system at points more or less distant from the liver, as well as between certain veins of the intestines and branches of the inferior cava. \5ouley.—Report on a Memoir by M. Labourdette, entitled, " On the Intro- duction of Medicines into the Milk by Digestive Assimilation." Read and discussed before the Acad, of Medic, April 19th and 26th, 1859. Bullet, de l'Acad. xxiv, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 123. Labourdette found it a matter of some difficulty to keep the cows and goats in health and milk while they were being dosed with various drugs. He succeeded however pretty well, by keeping them in the open air and feeding them well on vegetables and fresh roots. In some instances he was able to give as much as Pot. Iod. 20 grammes, Calomel 3 gram., Hydr. Bichl. 1 gram., Liq. Pot. Arsen. 5—10 gram, daily. The various ingredients were more difficult of detection chemi- cally than when merely mixed with the milk. Trousseau.—On the simple Ulcer of the Stomach and Hcematemesis. Clinique Europeenne, 1859, No. 1. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 183. Trousseau, apropos of a case, maintains the probability of idiopathic haemorrhage from the gastric mucous membrane. Mn>DELDORPF.—On External Gastric Fistula; and their Cure by Surgical Means, ivith an Account of a successful Case. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 187. . . Middeldorpf details in a condensed manner the vanous pomts relating to his subject. He mentions the situation of the external orifice in 27, and of the internal in 14 cases. The causes of the fistula may be external or internal. FbRSTER.—On Peritonitis in consequence of Puriform Ltf animation of the Fallopian Tubes. Wiener Med. Wochenschrift, No. 44, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 198. . . . Forster distinguishes 3 forms of this disease; one in which the inflammation spreads directly from the abdominal opening of the tube to the surrounding peritoneum; a second m winch the inflamed tube is perforated by ulceration and pus escapes into the peritoneum, and a third in which pus or sanious matter flows from the open end of the233 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. tube into the serous cavity. The last is the rarest, the first the most frequent. Habershon — On the Etiology and Treatment of Peritonitis. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 5. .... Habershon gives the following summary: (1) That peritonitis is never idiopathic in its origin, and that we do not find any such instance as acute disease of the peritoneum coming on from mere exposure to cold. In such supposed cases the cold merely tends to render acute an already existing morbid state. (2) That the consideration of the origin of the disease, either in a local or general source, is the best guide to treatment. (3) That where the disease results from perforation, injuries, &c, abstinence from food, and opium, with warmth, local depletions, &c, are the best remedies. (4) That where peritonitis is a symptom of blood-change, as in albuminuria and pyaemia, it may be best relieved by the treatment of the primary disease, but that here opium is sometimes of great value, and more effective without than with mercury. (5) That in cases of strumous, cancerous, or hepatic disease, the consideration of the cause is our best guide, and that, while in cases of the latter land mercurials are sometimes of great service, salivation is unnecessary. (6) That in general the benefit ascribed to mercury in the treatment of peritonitis is not established, and perhaps is really due to the opium given with it. Handfield Jones.—Tabular Statement of 72 Cases of Hamatemesis, with Remarks. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 353. The possibility of pretty copious gastric haemorrhage analogous to epistaxis, the slight amount of dyspepsia in many cases, and the great benefit of a steady tonic treatment in positive ulceration are the points insisted on. Peedvache.—On Epidemic Dysentery and its Treatment. Gaz. de Paris, 15, 16, 18, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 317. In 5 epidemics observed by Piedvache, the disease always had a different starting-point, without any discoverable determining local influences. The mortality is very high, amounting to \ to \ of all those attacked. From to -^V of the whole population of a district have been carried off. The disease most resembles tropical dysentery. Emetics, purgatives, and astringent enemata constitute the best treat- ment. Whittingham.—On Tropical Dysentery. Americ. Q. J. of Med. Sc., Oct., i860. Whittingham makes 5 varieties of dysentery; (1) dysentery de- pending upon indigesta and feces retained in the bowels, to be treated by ol. ricini and copious oily enemata. (2) Simple specific dysentery, common or bilious, to be treated by 5ss. doses of ipecacuanha with enemata of the same and morphia for 3 or 4 days, or by Ipecac, gr. x. + Opii. gr. i., 6tis. horis, with the above enema. Subsequently the pomegranate bark in decoction. (3) Dysentery complicated with ente- ritis, to be treated by warm bath and 3 doses of calomel and opium,Z6i REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. Press. Med. 34, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 187. followed by the mm treatment M in (2). (4) Dysentery complicated with acute or chronic inflammation of the liver, to lie treated by local bleeding, a purge of calomel and rhubarb and mercury in divided doses to ptyalism. (5) Putrid, malignant, or gangrenous dysentery, to be treated by Extr. Nucis. Vom. gr. i—iij + Extr. Opii. gr. i. in pil. «tiig. horis, with enemata of Lii[. Sod. Clilorin. (Jh.ympouillon.—Ilydragogue pills, consisting of Scammony, gr. ij., Cauibogia), gr. iij., Scillitinse, gr. \, 01. (Jroton, m. h Acid Tart., gr. iss. m. ft. in pil. iv. pro una dosa sd. Gaz. de llopit. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 150. Foy.—Hematic Capsules. Report. Pharmac. Ann. dc Therap., i860, p. 200. Extr. of calves' arterial blood, gr. 500, Phosph. of Soda, gr. 50, m. ft. hi capsulas e gr. v—x. SECRETORY SYSTEM, INDEX. Gulland, A. D.—Case of Hydatid Tumour and Abscess in the Liver. Edin. Med. J., March", i860, p. 841. Mooke, W.—Suppressed Secretion of Bile, Jaundice, Coma, Convulsions, and Delirium. Recovery. Dublin Iiosp. Gaz., March 1st, i860. LTaller, C, and Klob.—A Case of Pancreatitis. Ztschr. d. Ges. d. Aerzte, No. 37, 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Clnr. Kev., April. P* 543- Neumann.—On the Origin and Extension of Cancerous Masses in the Lira: Konigs. Med. Jahrb. ii, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 21. Desbarreaux-Bernard.—Epidemio of Catarrhal Orchitis at Toulouse. J. de Toulouse, Aug., 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 45. Peacock.-—Case of Bronzed Skin; Death; Disease of both Supra licnal Capsules. Med. T. and Gaz., May 1st, i860. Crossman, E.—Diseased Supra-renal Capsules unconnected icith Bronzed Skin.—Brit. Med. J., May 12th. Hirschsprung.—Case of Villous Cancer of the Bladder, Uramia, Excre- tion of Urea upon the Skin. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., May 15th, June 1st. Corfe.— Observations on the Treatment of Acute and Chronic Albuminuria. Lancet, May 19th. Johnson.—Case of Moveable Kidney. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 7th, i860. Meinhard.—On Bromide of Potassium in Vesical Catarrh. Med. Ztg. Russl. 20, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 51. Kennedy.—Three Cases of Moveable Kidney. Dublin LIosp. Gaz., Feb. 2nd, i860. Buattler.—Abstract of his Paper on Morbid Urology. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb., i860. Mirror.—4 Cases of Hepatic Abscess punctured externally. Lancet, leb. 18th, i860. L. Marcq.—Case of Fatty Deqenei-ation and Acute Softening of the Liver.SECRETORY SYSTEM, INDEX. 235 Oppolzer.—On Induration of the Lirev. Allg\ Wien. Med. Ztg., 46, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 178. Simon Max.—Abscess of the Liver discharging into the Bronchi. Bull, de Therap. lvii, Oct., 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 178. Tkaube and Munk.—Abscess of the Liver with Metastatic Abscesses in the Lungs, regular Intermittent Fever. Deutsche Kliuik., 50, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 179. Dicenta.—Studies and Experience respecting Seminal Losses. Deutsche Kliuik., 45, 1859. Schmidt's .Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 183. Fkodsiiam.—On the Treatment of Goitre by the External Application of the Biniodide of Mercury (and Insolation). Lancet, June 2nd. Murney.— Cases of Bronchocale successfully treated by Strychnia. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June 1st, i860. Trousseau.—On Attacks of Gallstones. Gaz. des Hopit., 37, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 32. Eigler.—Acute Lethal Icterus from Steatosis of the Liver. Spitals-Ztg., 5, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 35. Munk.—Two Cases of Renal Degeneration. Doutsche Klinik., 1, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 42. Trost.— Case of Chronic Tuberculosis of the Kidneys. Spitals-Ztg. 16, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 44. Chuckerbutty.— Case of Abscess of the Right Kidney.—Lancet, July 28th, Housley.—Case of Bronzed Skin, or Addison's Disease. Lancet, July 28th. Farre.—Extensive Hematuria from suspected Disease of the Kidneys conse- quent tq)on former Injury; Recovery. Lancet, Aug. nth. Miciiell Clarke.— Case of Epithelial Cancer of the Bladder and Kidney. Lancet, Aug. 18th. Three Cases of Displacement of the Spleen. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 15th. Three Cases of Hydatid Tumour of the Liver ; Liquid removed by Para- centesis. Lancet, Sept. ist. Rokitansky. On Moveable Spleen. Ztschr. d. Gesellch. d. Aerzte, 1860, No. 3. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., p. 540. Tiiudichum.—On some Chemical Questions in connection with Diseases of the Liver and their Treatment. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 13th. AViLLsiiiRE.—Clinical Remarks upon a Case of Diabetes. Lancet, Oct 27th. Furneli,. On a Case of Chronic Hepatitis with considerable Enlargement yielding to the Use of the Seton; Re-appearance of Acute Hepatitis; Formation of Abscess; Early Puncture; Recovery. Lancet, Oct 27 th. Thudichum.—Is Mercury an Hepatic Specific? Lancet, Oct. 27th. Dupley. On Galopping Tuberculosis of the Testicle. L'Union ca' i860 Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 191. McMillan.—Case of Rupture of the Liver, Operation, and Cure. Lancet Nov. 3rd. ' Swinhoe.—Diabetes treated by Hot Air-baths. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 3rd Sorger. Karlsbad, as a Remedy in Diseases of the Liver Prairer Vierteljahrschrift, Vol. iii, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p 192236 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Iniiauser.—Inflammation of the Parenchyma of the Liver with deep Jaundice; Cure by Iodine Enemata. Zcitr. d. Wiener Aerztc, No. 51, 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 194. Gaupp.—On a Case of Acute Yellow Atrophy of the Liver. Med. Corresp. Bl. d. Aersrtl. Ver. in Wiirtemburg, No. 42, 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 196. Redenuaciier.—On the Composition of Dropsical Transudations in Cir- rhosis of the Liver, ivith especial Regard to the Amounts of Urea and Chloride of Sodium contained in them. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 196. Lemaire.—Aceph<do-cysts of the Liver, to the Number of more tlian 400, expelled by an Artificial Opening. L'Union Med., 93, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 197. Rokitansky.—On the accidental Production of Glandular Tumours in the Liver. Clinique Europ., No. 14, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, P- 197- Siry.—Migration of a Biliary Calculus through the Abdominal Parietes. L'Union Med., No. 96, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 197. Abeille.—On temporary Albuminuria without lesion of the Kidneys occurring in a Number of different Morbid States. Monit. des Sciences Med. and Pharm., 36. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 202. Alvarenga.—Albuminous Anasarca; Cure by large Doses of Tannin. Union Med. 90. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 202. Blessig.—On the Alterations taking place in the Kidneys after Ligature of the Renal Artery. Virchow's Archiv. xvi, 1 and 2. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 202. Satjvin.—On Amyloid Degeneration of the Kidneys. Berlin, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 202. Spengler.—On the Action of the Therma of Ems in M. Biightii Simplex. Gunsburg's Zeitschr. x. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 202. Notta.—Case of Contusion of the Kidney; Cure. Union Med., 54. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 211. Gauchet.—Cases of Obliteration of the Ureters and of Hydronephrosis consecutive to Cancer of the Uterus. Union Med., 119. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 211. Deebrey.—Polyuria; Efficacy of Steel. Gaz. Med. de Paris, Sept. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 211. Fritz.—On Floating Kidneys. Arch, gener., Aug. and Sept. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 212. Oppolzer.—Floating Saccular Kidney. Cliniq. Europ., No. 2. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 212. Descotes.—Rhus Radicans employed successfidly in a Case of Nocturnal Incontinence of Urine. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 212. Pieplu fils.— Vesical Catarrh, with Retention of Urine, cured in a few Days by Tannin Injections. Gaz. des Hopit., 119. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 212. A. Fabre.— On Cystine, its Sediments, Gravel, and Cystic Calculi. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 213. , . Le Gendre and Bastien.—Atrophy probably Congenital of both Testicles. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 221. C. tan Bambeke.—On certain Vicious Habits in very loung Children. Union Med., 43. Canst. Jahrb.. Vol. iii, p. 225.SECRETORY SYSTEM, INDEX. 237 Dele ad . Use of Perchloride of Iron in Spermatorrhoea and some other Affections. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 225. ITicquet.—Diurnal Pollutions; Masturbation; previous Venereal Excesses; Contraction of the Meatus TJrinaries; Incision; Cure. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 225. j , T vrtivel.—Spermatorrhoea with Impotence of several Years Duration, resisting the most varied Treatment, cured by Hydrotherapy. Journ. du Progres., T. 1, No. 6. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 225. Aran.—Dilatation and Inflammation of the Biliary Passages, and Atrophy of the Liver, in consequence of Retention of Bile. Gaz. des Hopit., 75, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 315. Hoppe—Pain of the Testis cured by Ungt. Cupri Oxydi. Pr. Ver. Ztg., N. F. iii, 32, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 322. Knode.—A Case of degenerated Bronchocele of enormous Size cured by Medical and Surgical Treatment. N. Amer. Med. Chir.-Rev., Jan., i860. Lopez.—Case of Milky Urine (chylous). N. Amer. Med. Chn\ Rev., March, i860. Monneret.—On Essential Hcemorrhagic Icterus. Le Progres. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 66. Jackson, G-.—Case of considerable Enlargement of Spleen and Liver, un- attended by any Local Uneasiness during Life; Leucocythemia; Death from Haemorrhage. Med. T. and Gaz., Dec. 29th. Burton.—Total Suppression of Urine for 8 Days; Consciousness retained till ivithin 8 Hours of Death. Brit. Med. J., Dec. 29th. Darrach.—A peculiar Fungus observed in Saccharine Urine. Amer. Q. J. of Med. Sc., Oct., i860, p. 421 Biustowe.—On Renal Abscess. Lond. Med. Rev., Nov., i860. RoKiTANSKY.—On Fatal Steatosis of the Liver and Kidneys. Brit, and For. Med. Ch. Rev., Jan. i860. Zeitschr. d. Gesellch. d. Aerzte zu Wien., No. 32, 1859. Rokitansky states that, in subjects who are inclined to an excessive formation of fat, we meet with fatty degeneration of the liver, with which, sooner or later, fatty degeneration of the kidneys is associated; both gradually and imperceptibly attain so high a degree of develop- ment that at last the biliary and renal secretions cease, and death ensues speedily after the occurrence of slight icterus from uraemia and haimorrhagic decomposition of the blood. He gives three illustrative cases: Dr. Sieveking adds a case of acute fatty degeneration of the liver occurring at Brussels Lancet, Jan. 7th, i860. Three cases of leucocythemia splenica are recorded. Two of them had never had ague, and in the third the attack was of twelve years' date, and he had enjoyed good health subsequently. All the patients were more or less pallid, but in none was there the extreme anaemia of anaemia lymphatica, nor was there lymphatic-gland hypertrophy. In all the cases the excess of white corpuscles was demonstrated. One case proved fatal, the others were slightly relieved by treatment. Dr. Ogle reports also a case of enlargement of the lymphatic glandsREPOltT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 238 throughout the body, with peculiar deposits in the liver and spleen, and peculiar cell-furinations in the blood. The spleen weighed 4 lbs., was of a dark bluish brown colour. The liver was also much enlarged. The kidneys were granular. The deposits in the liver and spleen presented exactly the same elements as were found in the enlarged lymph glands. Dh Ogle records also a case of enormous enlargement of the various lymph glands throughout the body. Basiiam.—Clinical Lecture on Renal Abscess. Lancet, Jan. 14th. Basham in a clinical lecture on renal abscess, relates a case at length in which the symptoms pointed very plainly to the existence of a calculus in one kidney, there causing inflammation and purulent accu- mulation. The urine, which usually contained pus in notable quantity, now and then for several days together became quite clear, during which time the patient suffered from a sense of tightness, distress, and tenderness in the left lumbar region, with sympathetic pains in the groin and lower abdomen. These symptoms were immediately relieved by the re-appearance of pus in the urine. During the period when the ureter of the diseased kidney was obstructed, and the pus accumulated in the pelvis, the left lumbar region became sensibly fuller, the left iliac space filled up, the abdomen became larger to the left side and unsymmetrical. A distinct sense of fluctuation could be detected, and the most acute suffering was induced by making pressure on the left side, the pain always darting pungently to the pubes in the direction of the neck of the bladder. Hake.—On Moveable Kidneys. Med. T. and G., Jan. 14th. Hare publishes some additional observations on moveable kidneys. Referring to his former paper on the subject, and to that of M. Fritz, he states that these give altogether a total of 40 cases more or less perfectly recorded of persons affected with mobility of the kidney. Of these 3 5 were females, and 5 males. It appears that the right kidney is much more liable to be moveable than the left, and it is unusual for both kidneys to be moveable. This was observed in only 8 out of 3 5 cases, but Dr. Hare is inclined to think that in some instances the mobility of one of the kidneys may have been overlooked. Testelin.—On Syphilitic Affection of the Liver. Journ. de Brux., May, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 50. Testelin comes to the following conclusions respecting syphilitic affection of the liver. (1) In the majority of cases the high mortality of suckling children, affected with hereditary syphilis, depends on Specific disease of the liver. (2) This morbid alteration, characterised in the dead body by the presence of fibro-plastic elements in the parenchyma, reveals itself during life by disturbance of the digestive canal co-existing with the ordinary signs of hereditary syphilis, and by a considerable enlargement of the liver demonstrable by palpation or percussion. (3) In most cases of syphilitic liver-affection death is caused by a suddenly supervening peritonitis. (4) I" rare cases death can also be caused by passive ha?inorrhagCB, which may depend partly on the crasis of the blood, partly on the disturbance of the circulation occa- sioned by the liver affection.SECRETORY SYSTEM. 239 Basham.—On the curability of Renal Drops?/. Lancet, Jan. 28th. Basham details, in a clinical lecture, a case of acute renal congestion, attended with considerable dropsy which yielded to dry cupping, warm baths, and a diaphoretic mixture containing tr. digitalis. The patient afterwards took Tr. Ferri Muriat. and recovered his health completely, the urine, however, still presenting traces of albumen. Case of bronzed skin disease with destruction of the supra renal cap- sules, recorded by Mr. Leeming-. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 28th. Pfaffer.—The Therapeutical use of Bromide of Potassium. L'Union 102, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 172. Pfaffer confirms the observations of Thielmann relative to the thera- peutic action of bromide of potassium. He found it to exert a manifest sedative action upon the urinary and g'enital organs. Breithaupt and Trost.—Cases of acute Atrophy of the Liver. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 185. Pr. Ver. Ztg. N. P. ii, 39 and 40, 1859. Spitals. Ztg. 18, 1859. Breithaupt and Trost's case was observed at Coblentz; the subject was a muscular soldier. There is nothing very particular in the histoiy of the illness. At the autopsy the brain was found soft and pale, there was an extravasated patch of the size of a groschen in the falx, and several small ones beneath the visceral pericardium. Extra- vasation had also occurred in the folds of the peritonium. Frost's case is related in more detail, the subject was a young female, who suffered with some degree of jaundice for three months before serious symptoms set in. The cerebral membranes contained much blood; the substance of the brain was swollen, soft, almost fluctuating-, full of serum, and moderately injected. The lateral ventricles were filled with pale red serum, and their fining membrane softened. The muscular fibres of the heart, and the tubuli of the kidneys, were in an advanced stage of fatty degeneration. The liver was notably shrunken, and in a state of fatty decay, its cells altered and breaking up. The portal blood, and the cystic bile contained leucin and tyrosin; in the former there was also an increase of the volatile and fixed acids. Hare.—On the diagnosis of Cancerous and some other Tumours of the Liver Lancet, March 3rd, 1859. Hare states that scirrho-enccplialoid is the most common form of cancerous tumour in the liver, especially occurring in disseminated masses. In very rare cases cancer is combined with cirrhosis The weight is usually much increased. The form is not much altered' The physical signs are described in detail. Monneret.—Remarks respecting a complex disease of the Spleen Archiv Gen. Nov. p. 513, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 307 Monneret relates a case in which a male, set. 67, after an illness of about nine months, died with a greatly enlarged spleen, all the other organs, except the &upra*fenal capsules, being sound. The spleen was hard, much congested, in some parts infiltrated with fibrine in othersREPOHT OP PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 240 containing encysted collections of pus, in others again circumscribed extravasations of blood. The supra-renal capsules were in a state of pulpy softening. The patient had not suffered from ague. The white corpuscles of the blood were not in excess. Beraud.— Vcn-iolous Orchitis and Ovaritis. Amor. J. of Med. Sc., April, i860, p. 522. Variolous orchitis, according to Beraud, may be either peripheric, or parenchymatous. Both testes are commonly affected, the left most seriously. Spontaneous resolution usually occurs. Variolous ovaritis has been less frequently observed. G. Budd.—On the Treatment of Hydatid Tumours of the Liver. Med. T. and Gaz., May 19th. G. Budd relates a case in which he withdrew 156 ounces of liquid from an hydatid tumour in the liver by means of a fine exploring trocar adapted to a double acting stomach pump syringe. The opera- tion gave vast relief, was followed by no ill effects, and up to the date of publication the liquid had not again accumulated. Murney.—Cases of Bronchocele successfully treated by Strychnia. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June 1st, i860. Murney records 3 cases of thyroid enlargement occurring in females, in two of which the gland was greatly reduced in size by the administration of strychnia, and in the third improvement had com- menced. In the second there was also proptosis and palpitation of the heart. Murney believes that most of our cases of bronchocele are the result of impaired innervation, or of a perverted action of the nervous system. Budd, G.—On Jaundice combined with Ascites. Med. T. and Gaz., June 16th. Budd, G., considers at some length the various causes that produce jaundice by obstructing the bile duct, and which may also occasion ascites, and points out the circumstances which make the diagnosis often very doubtful. When jaundice co-exists with ascites the pro- bability is considerable that both are produced by the pressure of an adjacent tumour which is often cancerous. LeubusCHER.—Contributions to the pathology of Diabetes Mellitus. Archiv. f. pathol. Anat. Vol. 18, Part 1 and 2. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Kev., April, i860. Leubuscher's patient was a girl, ast. 19, who was under his observa- tion till her death, a period of more than ten months. The results of his observations are as follows: (1) The temperature of the skm was alwavs below the normal figure, being only 950 F., and even under an. acute affection reaching only 960 F. (2) The amount of urine excreted many times exceeded the quantity of liquid taken. (3) With a mixed diet, containing much starchy matter, and water being taken freely, the quantity of CI. Na. and of urea excreted in 24 hours con-SECRETORY SYSTEM. 241 siderably exceeds the normal proportion. There is a great amount of sugar. (4) A preponderance of meat increases the quantity of urea, and diminishes that of sugar, without essentially influencing that of common salt. (5) The free use of milk with mixed diet does not pro- duce any change in the quantities of sugar, chloride of sodium, and urea excreted. (6) The ingestion of alcoholic drinks, with predominant protein-food considerably increases the excretion of sugar; the quan- tity of urea is diminished, that of 01. Na. remaius unchanged. (7) VVith mixed diet, plenty of meat, Ojss. of good brown beer, lactate of iron afforded a mean amount of sugar, the urea and CI. Na. remaining the same. (8) With same diet pepsin in gr. x. doses bis die seemed to dimmish the quantity of urine, but its sp. gr. was higher, all the con- stituents, sugar, urea, and CI. Na. were both relatively and absolutely increased. (9) Benzoin given as benzoic acid, or its salts had no notable effect on the urine; but from observations made on another patient it seems proved that it undergoes the usual change into hippuric acid. After death (from pneumonia) the blood was found of a milky aspect, and contained a large quantity of free fat and white corpuscles, as well as of sugar, and some urea. Griesinger.—On Diabetes. Archiv. fiir physiolog. Heilk. Edin. Med. J., Sept. i860. Griesinger analyses 225 recorded cases, including 8 of his own. In 20 the disease appeared to be of traumatic origin. A vegetable diet, especiaUy if containing much starchy matter, was markedly influential in its production. The males were 172, the females 53. The disease mostly occurred from 20 to 40. Tuberculosis occurred in the majority, and there was also observed a marked tendency to suppurative or gan- grenous inflammations. The free administration of Sodre Bicarb. (3ss in the day), and an animal diet are the means he advises in the matter of treatment. Gexouville.—On grave essential Icterus. Paris, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 192. Genouville considers it established, that the degeneration of the liver is not sufficient to account for the disease, there must also be an altera- tion of the blood. Which of these two is the primary change he does not decide. The kidneys are also diseased in almost all cases, but no other organ. To the presence of leucin and tyrosin in the liver he attaches no special importance, as they are found in many other diseased states. Bertulus.—Clinical lectures on Diseases of the Liver. Gaz. des Hopit. No. 17, 20, 26, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 194. Bertulus states, that he finds the blood of patients suffering with hepatic phthisis (the result of latent inflammation), notably deficient in fibrine, fat, and albumen, while the cholesteriue is increased, and the phosphates are entirely absent. This state may be cured without much difficulty by vegetable and milk diet, quinine and iron. He con- siders at some length the diagnosis of bilious fever and hepatitis. 16242 REPORT ON rHACTICAL MEDICINE. \\ am.mann.— Contributions to the statistics of Granular Disease of the Lire,-. abater. Zcitschr. fiir prukt. Ileilkunde, No. 9, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 196. Wallmann observed 1 case of granular disease among every 54-16 autopsies, a) tlie military p. in. room at Vienna, and found among 24 cases, 8 of partial, and 16 of total degeneration. In 13 cases there was icteric tinging of the skin; in 21 ascites or other dropsy; in 19 splenic enlargement; in 13 diseased conditions of the heart and vessels; in 8 pneumonia. Spirit drinking did not appear to be a frequent cause, disease of the heart was much more. Most of the cases were under set. 30; 22 were males. Kletzinsky.—On Lithodialysis. (Ester Zeitsch. f. prakt. Heilk. No. 11. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 213. Kletzinsky concludes from his trials that no effectual means of dis- solving urinary concretions iu the living body, can yet be said to exist. Segaxas.—On the use of Nitrate of Silver in certain Chronic Diseases of tlie Genito-urinary Organs. Union Med. 42, 45, 48. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 217. Segalas recommends lunar caustic in strictures and false passages; also in " pertes semmales," and in catarrh of the bladder. Friedberg.—On a case of Struma Cystica. Virch. Archiv., Vol. 16, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 256. In Friedberg's case a goitre pressed upon the larynx and trachea displacing- them to the left, the right St. CI. mastoid muscle to the right. The vertical movement of the thyroid cartilage on the cricoid was impeded, and the voice (probably in consequence) was deep and harsh, and after a few sentences had been uttered became hoarse and jarring. The glottis being unduly open, the pressure of "the air on tlie surface of the air cells was diminished, and in consequence the flow of blood to the lungs was increased, and the return current diminished. After an operation for the removal of the tumour, the voice became in 8 days clear and sound; the difficulty in breathing and speaking vanished; the pulmonary catarrh ceased; and on the 14th day the patient was discharged. Lotzbeck.—Surgical Report from the Clinic of Prof. v. Brum, in Tubingen. Deutsche Klinik, No. 6] 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 256. After an account of several cases of thyroideal cancer, Lotzbeck describes the treatment of struma cystica by iodine injections, which has proved extremely successful. The proceeding seems to be identical with that used in ovarian cysts. Dickinson.—On diseases of the Kidney accompanied by Albuminuria, con- sidered in relation to their Origin in change occurring in the l\ibes or in the Inter-tubular Structure. Med.-Chir. Trans., i860, p. 226. L'nder the term tubular disease, Dickinson includes all tlie varieties oi the large smooth kidney, of which the pathology essentially consists243 SECRETORY SYSTEM. in increased epithelial growth, depending- on inflammation or some allied condition. In about half the number of specimens examined, indications of wasting- and shrinking were observed, although the size of the organ was still excessive. The granular form of disease Dickinson states is produced by an intertubular effusion which becomes organised into fibrous tissue, and by its shrinking causes contraction and atrophy. From experiments performed to ascertain the amount of water that flowed through the vascular system of healthy, enlarged, and con- tracted kidneys, it resulted that the average of 13 healthy was 119 oz., of 5 enlarged 90*5 oz., of 6 contracted 25-1 oz. WrjNDERLicH.—The Clinical peculiarities, and the import of pernicious Jaundice running an Acute Course. Arch. d. Heilk. i., 3, p. 205, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 32. Wunderlich divides the cases he proposes to consider into 6 groups. In (1) the pernicious symptoms are only prodromata, and cease on the appearance of the jaundice. In (2) the disease begins with grave symptoms, jaundice soon appears, and death. No local alterations are found on examination. In (3) the disease runs a similar rapid course, and the liver is found diminished in size, and its tissue in a state of molecular destruction. Other organs, especially the brain and spleen, are also softened. In (4) the course of the disease is similar, but the jaundice less, and after death the liver is found enlarged and very fatty. In (5) the liver contains multiple abscesses, the result of a primary suppurative hepatitis. In (6) the cases resemble those of primary pernicious jaundice, but end in recovery. Wunderlich is in- clined to look on the disease as one affecting the whole system, and states that the jaundice is by no means an essential symptom. Opolzer.—Case of Acute Atrophy of the Liver. Spitals-Ztg. 6-9, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 34. In Oppolzcr's case there was partial fatty degeneration of the sheaths of the cerebral vessels ; the fibres of the heart were fattily degener- ated ; the liver cells were destroyed, and amid the debris were leucin and fat globules; the epithelium of the urinary tubules was in a state of fatty degeneration. In the liver there was no bile or sugar ; in the blood there was urea, carbonate of ammonia, and bilin in small quan- tity, leucin and tyrosin in a large amount; no sugar. Boixf.t and Leudet.—On the Treatment of Hydatids of the Liver. Rev. de Therap. Med.-Chir. 3-8, 1859. L'Un'ion, 90, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 35. Boinet thinks that by his mode of procedure the contents of hydatid cysts may be safely evacuated. He first punctures with an exploratory trocar, by which he continues to evacuate the liquid if it is clear and aqueous, only taking care on withdrawing the trocar to keep the abdominal wall pressed against the tumour for some minutes, and sub- sequently to insist on the recumbent position being observed for 36- 48 hours (on the back). If the contents are purulent a larger trocar is to be introduced, through the canula of which a close fitting elastic catheter is to be passed and left in the wound, the canula being then244 mcronx ox practical mf.dk ink. removed. In these cases he also injects Tr. Iodinii, wliicli he leaves 8—10 minutes in the sac.—Leudet recommends Keeamier's mode of previously applying caustic. Boinet has operated successfully 14 times. Wagner.— Contribution to the Palholog. Anatomy of the Liver in Abdominal Typhus. Arch, de ITcilk., i. i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, Wagner finds in the interlobular areolar tissue of the liver, in cases of typhoid fever, agglomerations of numerous glistening nuclei, which he believes to cause, by pressure, destruction of the adjacent hepatic cells. Jacksch,—On Uremia. Prag. Vierteljahrschr, No. 66, p. 143. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 36. Jacksch, admitting the existence of an ammoniacal state of blood in M. Brightii, at least in certain cases, distinguishes it from the true ammoniaemia depending on the resorption of decomposing urine from the urinary passages by the following circumstances:—(1.) In true amm., the urine in the bladder is pungently ammoniacal, which is never the case in the highest degrees of uraemia from M. Brightii. (2.) In true amm. there is no dropsy. (3.) In severe amm. there is an evident dry state of the mucous membrane of the mouth, throat, nose, larynx, and conjunctiva, which is absent in uraemia. (4.) In chronic amm. there are evident ammoniacal exhalations from the iungs and skin ; in uraemia, even when the secretion of urine is arrested and sopor exists, they are but scanty. (5.) In amm., with signs of gastric disorder, there is always a continual nausea and loathing of animal food, which is rare in uraemia. (6.) In amm. violent intermitting rigors occur, which are absent in uraemia. (7.) In amm. there are no epileptoid attacks, or croupous exudations on the mucous surfaces of the mouth, throat, air-passages, serous membranes, and skin. (8.) Neither are there in amm. the retinal exudations of uraemia. (9.) Chronic amm. constantly induces an earthy pallor of the skin, and a progressive emaciation, especially of the fat and muscles. (10.) In acute and severe amm. there is constantly vomiting with diarrhoea, which is often absent in chronic, or of brief duration. (11.) In amm., whether acute or chronic, death ensues on coma lasting for several hours or days. Jacksch has observed amm. in cases of torpor and paralysis of the bladder, of dilatation of the renal pelves when the ureters have been blocked up, of renal abscesses, tubercles, and sacculated kidneys. He dissents from Treitz's view of cholera typhoid, and adopts rather that of Bidd, that the retention of the urea, &c, does not depend chiefly on the state of the kidneys, but on the loss of water and chloride of sodium, which interferes with its removal from the tissues where it is formed. Eulenberg.—Patholog. Researches regarding the Thyroid Gland. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Kev., Oct. i860. Eulenberg distinguishes three chief forms of goitre. (1) Struma glandulosa ; (2) struma vasculosa ; (3) struma fibrosa. Of the first there are the following varieties :—(a) Str. gland, hypertroph ; (ft) str.SE0RETOIU' SYSTEM. 245 gland, parenchym; (c) str. cystica. Of the second there is the con- gestive variety, the same with varicose and ancurismatic vessels, and the inflammatory. To these may be added the ancurismatic form. Eade.—Case of Diabetes Insipidus with Analysis of the Urine. Beale's Archives of Med., No. 5. In Eade's case the quantity of urine passed exceeded by about 1 pint that of the fluid drank. It varied in sp. gr. from 1005 to 1018, and contained 5-5 to 20-1 parts of urea per 1000. He was much benefited by a prolonged course of steel. Diarrhoea was a marked symptom, as well as thirst. A short account is given of another case with a p.m., in which the chief morbid 'find' was dilatation of the ureters and renal calyces with a columnated state of the bladder, no apparent cause of obstruction being present In man.—The Action of Mercury on the Liver. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 20th. Inman questions the power of calomel, &c, to produce an increased flow of bile. Beer.—The Connective Tissue of the Human Kidney. Berlin, 1859. Canst. Jahbr., Vol. ii, p. 38. Beer gives a veiy detailed account of the morbid changes taking place in the ' matrix' of the kidney, the limitary membrane of the tubes, and the malpighian capillaries. He describes simple, and cellular, interstitial hypertrophy of the matrix, one kind of the former being peculiar to variola. The latter, he says, is a completely regressive metamorphosis, consisting- essentially in the development of cells in the interior of the connective tissue corpuscles. In both forms fatty degeneration may ensue as a subsequent change. The limitary mem- branes of the tubes may be simply hypertrophied, or thickened by change into a gelatin oid, soft substance, or converted into streaky connective tissue. Calcareous and amyloid degeneration may also affect it. The malpighian capillaries are liable to have their channel obstructed by increase of then nuclei and thickening of their walls. Roberts.—Notes on the Treatment of Diabetes. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 10th and 17 th. Roberts records 4 cases of diabetes, in which the great value of a diet as free as possible from saccharine and starchy food was exceed- ingly marked. In case 1 opium was of gTcat use, not as diminishing the excretion of sugar, but sustaining the general power. In all the cases bran cakes or gluten bread were of great advantage. Pepsine (rennet) was given in the 4th case, but without any special advantage. Roberts, from a review of the saccharine treatment, is by no means disposed to recommend it, yet suggests that cane-sugar may prove in certain proportions not only not injurious, but positively advantageous as a substitute for starch. Becquerel, A.—Clinical Researches on Albuminuria. Clinique Europ., 6, 7, 11, 14, 15, 19, 27. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. hi, p. 202. Becquerel lays it down as a law that whenever albumen is present inREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tlic urine, the cause is not to bo looked for in an alteration of the blood, but of the kidneys, especially of their cortical substance. He shows that the dropsical effusions in heart disease contain more solid matter than those of acute M. Brightii, and the latter more than those of the chronic form. Godard, E.—Researches on Fatty Encroachment on the Kidney. Gaz. M&L do Paris, 25 and 26. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 202. < Godard describes particularly the encroaching growth of adipose tissue, attendant upon obstruction of the ureter by a calculus, which penetrates between the mucous membrane and pyramids, and occasions gradual atrophy of the kidney. Oppolzer.—Treatment of Bright's Disease. Clinique Em-op. 13. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 202. Oppolzer attaches most importance to a judicious dietetic regimen in the acute stage of the disease. If inflammatory or convulsive compli- cations appear he resorts to v. s., or in the commencement of the latter to chloroform inhalation, stopping short of complete narcotism. He also uses cold affusion to the head. He has found no benefit from the administration of acids, except in one case of infiltration of mine. Richardson.—On Uramia. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 10th. Richardson bebeves that in urajmic poisoning an ammonia-compound accumulates in the blood and causes the narcotism, &c. The breath contains an excess of ammonia, except in cases where the compensatory eliminative function of the lung has become suppressed. Richardson ascribes the fatal asphyxia to the influence of ammonia in arresting the capacity of the venous blood for absorbing- oxygen. When uraemic symptoms are urgent, Richardson advises v. s., wliich will remove some of the poison, diminish internal congestion, and liberate secretion. Purging and diaphoresis are also advisable. Herrmann.—On the Influence of Dilution of the Blood on the Secretion of Urine. Virch. Archiv., Vol. xvii. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 67. Herrmann's results were that so long as the composition of the blood plasma is not essentially altered by the exit of certain materials from the blood cells, the mine contained no albumen. When a greater degree of dilution was effected albumen passed into the urine, but always along with blood pigment. Herrmann regards this albumen as derived from the blood cells, and not from the scrum, on the ground of its amount of iron. Schwartz—Ok Morh. Brightii; Affection of the Kidneys in connection with Typhus. Beitrage zur Heilkundc herausgegebene, v. d. Ges. pract. Aerzte zu Riga, iv, 2. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 203. Schwartz describes this state as originating either from retention of urine inducing pyelitis and small abscesses in the kidney, or from the hyperemia of the typhus passing into exudation and true Morb. Bright. The two forms may be combined, as in a case he gives.6ECRET0RY SYSTEM. 247 Traube.—On Bacony Degeneration of the Kidneys. Deutsche Kliuik, i, 7, 8. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 203. Traube diagnoses the above state from pale, light, clear, albuminous urine concurring with traces of constit. syphilis, old disease of the bones, or chronic pulmon. tuberculosis, but consecutive to them. En- largement of the spleen or liver not the result of ague, or diarrhoea not ascribable to intestinal ulceration, strengthens the diagnosis. Hyper- trophy or dilatation of the left ventricle, if the before-named conditions exist, points also to the same conclusion. The urine may be highly albuminous, red, and heavy when the kidneys are in a state of bacony degeneration during the existence of acute pyrexia, or of considerable relaxation of the arterial system from derangements in the circulatory and respiratory appparatus. Wittich, v.—Albuminuria and the Secretion of Urine. Konigsberg. Med. Jahrb., ii, 1. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 203. The results of Wittich's experiments are opposed to those of Heyn- sius. Exosmosis of blood serum took place most freely to acid urine. Heynsius regarded the acidity of the urine as the cause of the non- escape of albumen from the blood in the capillaries. Durham.—Misplacement and Mobility of the Kidneys in reference to the Diagnosis of Abdominal Tumours. Guy's Hosp. Reports, VoL vi, p. 404. Durham has collected 10 cases in which the condition in question has been actually proved to exist by post-mortem examination; 2 of these cases under his own observation. He remarks that the left kidney is more liable to fixed misplacement than the right, but that the latter is more frequently moveable than the left. Mobility of the kidneys may be congenital, but in the majority of cases it is probably produced by tight lacing, the dragging of a hernia, frequent pregnancies, &c. It is more common in women than in men. CUTANEOUS SYSTEM, INDEX. Jordan, R. J.—Skin Diseases and their Remedies, pp. 284, London. Hebra.—Atlas of Cutaneous Diseases, ii. and iii. parts. Vienna, 1858, 1859. Ratmbert.—On Patholog. Anatomy of Malign Pustule. Journ. de Brux., Aug. 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 47. Babington.—Case of Elephantiasis, with Autopsy. Dublin Hosp. Gaz Feb. 1st, i860. "' Charcot.—On Skin Diseases dependent on Nerve Affections. J. de la Physiol., ii, Jan. 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 187.' Cummins, W. J.—On the Turkish Bath. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. 1 cth March ist, March 15th, April 2nd, i860. Sigmund.—On Disease of the Hair in Syphilis. Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v, 37, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 46. Orr.—Case of Pityriasis Rubra Acuta. Glasgow Med. J., July p 227 Van Zadelhoff.—On Ulcus Noma. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc Nov i860. "'REPORT ON PRACTICAL .medium;. f. Kindcrheilkde, 1859, ii. 3. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 308. DbVERGIE.—Pa-chloride of Iron in Purpura, and in Skin Diseases. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 201, 203. Devergir.—On (he Therapeutical use of Chloriodide of Mercury. Ann. dc Therap., i860, p. 215. Trastouu.—Iodide of Potassium in Ulcers of the Legs. Ann. do Therap.. i860, p. 233. Bock.—Chloroform in Itch. Cliniq. Europ. Ann. de Therap. i860, p. 268. Fenger.—On the Abortive Treatment of Herpes Zoster. Schmidt's Jalirb., Vol. 107, p. 182. Barton, J. K.—Remarks upon the Local Treatment of Lupus by the Bini- odide of Mercury. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., March 1st, i860. Buntzen.—Arsenic in Skin Diseases. Hosp. Tidende, 185, No. 17 and 19. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 30. Balfour, J.—Account of the Aurengzebie, or Delhi Sore. Edin. Med. J., May, p. 1036. Hirschsprung and Moore.—On some cases of Glanders-poisoning in the Human Subject. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April 16th, May 1st. Hubsch.—On Erythema Papillosum (a Skin Disease common among the Turkish Soldiers.) Gaz. Med. d'Orient, ii, 11, Feb. 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 180. Grantiiajm.—Therapeutic Effects of Ammonia as a Dermic Agent in the Treatment of Disease. Med. T. and Gaz., May 26th. Hobson.—On the Leprosy of the Chinese. Med. T. and Gaz., June 2nd. Willshire.—Good Effects of Bleeding in Acute Lepra. Lancet, Aug. 25th. Creutzer.—Practical Observations on Anthrax. Wien Ztschr. N. F. iii, 24, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 39. Wilson.—Thermo-Therapeia (the heat-cure): or the Treatment of Disease by immersion of the Body in Heated Air. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 13th. Wollaston.—The Turkish or Hot-Air Bath. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 27th. Spencer Wells.—On the Revival of the Turkish or Ancient Roman Rath. Med. T. and Gaz., Nov. 3rd. Wagner.—Case of general Alopecia of the Head. Wunderlich's Arch. Heft. 2, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 41. Masson.—On some Medicinal Plasters. Med. T. and Gaz., Nov. 17th. Richart.—The Therapeutical properties of Argillaceous Earth. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 293. Clemens.—Bro?no-arseniate of Potash. Deutsche Klinik, 1859, 10—12. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 293. Zeissl and Demarquay.— On the use of Glycerine internally and externally. Zcitschr. d. k. k. gesellch. d. Acrzte, 1859, 29. Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1859, 25—27. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. in, p. 293. Devergie.—Decayed Oak-icood in certain Skin Affections. Bullet, dc Therap., 1859, March. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 293. Ollier.—On Hypertrophic Tumours of the Skin, and particularly of Hyper- trophy of the Papilke. Annuaire de la Syphilis and des Maladies dc la Peau, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 298. Nagel.—On Elephantiasis Arabum. Supplement to the Oesterr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Hcilk., 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 298. Schullkr.—Therapeutic Remarks 011 the Eczema of Children. Jahrb.2-19 SECRETORY SYSTEM. Guyot. On Eczema of the Skin of the Hands. Journ. de Med. do Bordeaux, 1859, April. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 308. Mottet.—Herpes Gutturalis and Ophthalmia induced by Herpes Conjunctiva;. L'union Med. dc Paris, 105, 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol', iii, p. 314. Traube.—Herpes Zoster on the Head. Deutsche Khnik., 1859, p. 467. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 314. Herpes Zoster facialis duplex. Allgem. Wicu. Med. Zeitg. 1S59, p. 43. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 314. Jaxzex.—Case of Pemphigus. Verhandl. d. n. h. Med. Vereincs zu Heidelberg, vi, p. 171. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 314. Reyjiann.—Congenital Pemphigus. Press. Vor. Ztg., 1859, 13. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 314. Majer.-^-Treatment of Infantile Pemphigus. Revue de Therap. Med. Chir.j 1859, 9. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 314. Le Roy de Mericourt.—On Chromhidrosis or Chromocrinia. Gaz. Hebdoin., 1859, Sept. 30th. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 322. Cixtrac.—On Chromocrinia. Gaz. Hebdoni., 1859, 42. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 322. Maker, Kirchberg.—Cases of Chromhidrosis. Gaz. des Hopit., 1859; 6 and 30 Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 322. Dcchene.—A case of Simulated Chromidrosis. Gaz. des Hopit. 30, 48, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 322. Hebra.—A?wmalous Pigment Formation of the Skin. Allgem. Wien. Med. Ztz., 1859, 52. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 322. Lebert.—On Dermoid Cysts. Prager Vierteljahrschr. lx, p. 25—49. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 323. Heymann.—Case of Ihiberculous Lepra. Virchow's Archiv. xvi, 1 and 2. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 325. Gibert.—Cure of an inveterate Lupus by inoculation with the matter of Secondary Syphilis. Gaz. des Hopit. 1859, 144. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 325. Delafoxd and Bourg lignon.—Researches respecting the Itch Animalcules in Man and Animals. Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1859, p. 233. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 326. Ronrx. Researches respecting the Sarcopt.es of the Itch in Man. *Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1859, p. 452. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 326. Hebra.—Report from the Clinic for Skin Diseases, by Dr. Milliner. Wiener Spitalzeitung, 1859. 'Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 326. Readex.—Report respecting the Section for Syphilitic and Cutan. Dis. of the Gari •ison Hospital at Vienna. Wiener Spitalzeitung., 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 326. Lotzbeck.—A Case of Perspiratory Gland Tumour on the Cheek. Virchow's Archiv., xvi, 1 and 2, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 326. Parrot.—Study of Sanguineous Sweating and Neuropathic Haemorrhages. Gaz. Hebdom., 1859, p. 633 Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 326. Hyrtl.—Anal Cysts and Blind Hemorrhoids. Oesterr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilkde., 1859, 49. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 328. Rodet.—On the Treatment of Acne. Med.-Chir. Monatshefte, 1859, Oct. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 330. M\i.\coT.—Sulphurct of Calcium in Tinea Capitis. Journ. des Conn. Med. 1859, Jan. 20. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 334.REPORT ON lUtACTICAL MEDICINE. 250 KorczTNSKi.—Plica Polonica. Wien. Med. Wochcnschr., 18 59. Qftni I. Jahrb., Vol. iii, j). 334. Lkviskuu.—P/i't-rt Pohmica. Deutsche Klinik, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 334. Raciborski.—Plica Polonica. Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1859, p. 143. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 334. Hoffmann.—Plica Polonica among the Insane. Allgem. Zeitsehr. f. Psychiatric, xvi, 1. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 334. Brown-Sequard.—On the influence of the Nervous System on the Nutrition of the Skin. Joum. de la Physiol., ii. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, P- 335- Imbert-G ourbeyre.—Memoir on Pruritus Vulva;, and its Treatment by Arsenic. Gaz. Hebdom., 1859, 4. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii,j>. 335.' Koch.—Cure of a Case of inveterate Pruritus Vulva by Fowler s Solution. Wurteinberg. Corresp. blatt., 1859, 12. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, P- 335- Webster.—Brief Notes of a Visit to the Leper Hospital at Granada. Med.-Chir. Tran., i860, p. 27. Herbert Barker.—Severe Urticaria, produced by some of the Setaceous Larva. Brit. Med. J., Dec. 22. CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. Gaffard.—On Treatment of Excessive and Fetid Perspiration of Feet. Edin. Med. J., Jan., i860. Bull. Gen. de Therap., Oct. 1859. Gaffard recommends a mixture of 15 grains of red oxide of lead and about 1 ounce of the solution of subacetate of lead, as an application to feet which are the seat of excessive and fetid perspiration. In most cases it is sufficient to bathe the feet with this every 8 days. Coles.—On Aden or Yemen Ulcer. Trans. Med. and Phys. Soc. of Bombay, No. IV, N.S. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. 1860. Coles contributes information relative to the Aden or Yemen ulcer. Dr. Craig, whom he quotes, does not attribute it to scurvy, but to general cachexia of the muscular and vascular systems and to a wateiy state of the blood. Accumulation of similar cases in a foul hospital was looked upon as the chief cause of the mortality, and after the practice was adopted of dispersing the patients, the disease was arrested. Madden.—On the Turkish Bath. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Jan. 16th. Madden gives a detailed account of his experience of the Turkish bath as he had it administered in the East. He contrasts this with the so-called Turkish baths which have been established in this country, insisting especially on the positively injurious effects of heated dry air used in the latter, and strongly recommending the Turkish mode, in which the air of the bathing apartment is densely charged with vapour. He concludes his communication as follows: " Altogether the conviction left on my mind is that the action of the heart is greatly affected by the heated dry ah bath, that the circula-CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 251 tion is almost invariably accelerated to an extent which is inconvenient ami unfavorable to a healthy state of body, and an undisturbed condition of the mental faculties during the time that the bather is exposed to an heat of 1300 (never under that temperature) m the principal bath department; that where there is a tendency to disease of tlie heart, peritoneal or organic, to congestion of that organ, or the brain, or the lungs, or the liver, the acceleration of the pulse and excitement of the whole nervous system, are not limited to the period of remaining in the bath, but extend to periods of several hours, varying from 3 to 5 and even 7 or 8 hours subsequently to the use of the bath; and lastly, that the feeling of composure and exhilaration, which are so characteristic of the effects of the Turkish Hammaam of heated humid air, are not to be expected in any commensurate degree as results or accompaniments of the use of the baths recently esta- blished in this country, wherein parched dry ah, contaminated with the , effluvia of coke in a state of combustion, is substituted for pure air, hot and humid, which is peculiarly adapted to cause extensive and uniform perspiration." Moore.—Cases of Squamous Disease. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Jan. 16th. Moore records several cases of Psoriasis and Pityriasis successfully treated by Extr. laricis internally and externally with bran baths, conjoined in 2 cases with biniodide of mercury, or iodide of arsenic. Stokes.—On Prevention of Pitting in Small-Pox. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb., i860. Stokes, in his paper, arrives at the following practical conclusions: (1) That the chances of marking are much greater in the sthenic or Inflammatory than in the asthenic or typhoid confluent small pox. (2) That, considering the change in the character of disease, both essential and local, observed during late years, we may explain the greater frequency of marking in former times. (3) That in the typhoid forms of the disease the treatment of the surface by an artificial covering, such as gutta-percha, or by glycerine, will often prove satisfactory. (4) That in the more active or non-typhoid forms the use of constant poulticing, and of every other method that will lessen local inflammation, seems to be the best mode of preventing the dis- figurement of the face. He records one striking instance of the effect of local depletion in preventing the development of eruption. A healthy young woman was freely leeched on the forehead for intense headache occurring with active febrile symptoms. Much blood was drawn and much relief obtained, but soon after small pox eruption appeared, and assumed the form of most severe confluent pock on the trunk and limbs, while on the face not more than three aborted pustules made their appearance. He does not think puncturing suc- cessful unless the disease be mild, and the pustules appear and advance together without much cutaneous inflammation. White.—On the Use of Potash in some Cutaneous Diseases. Med. T. and Gaz., March 3rd, i860. White details the application made in Germany of schmier-seife to252 BBPOBT ON 1'UACTICAL MKimiNi:. various skin diseases, as mollusc, contagion., acne, eczema, scabies, prurigo, psoriasis, and pityriasis versicolor. The schinier-seife is formed by boiling- fish or other animal oils with an excess of ley, composed of caustic potash and the crude carbonate. The best specimens are of a bright amber or green colour.and uniformly soft consistence. IIakdy.—On the Treatment of Prurigo. Rev. de Ther. Med.-Chir., Feb., i860. Edin. Med. J., April, i860. Hardy distinguishes Prurigo into 4 kinds, one depending upon hypeiu'sthesia of the skin, a second on pediculi, a third on irritant principles introduced into the blood, and a fourth symptomatic of other skin affections, as itch. In the first, he advises antispasmodic and antineuralgic remedies, with starch or gelatine baths, sometimes mildly alkaline. In partial (especially vulvar) prurigo, the most useful application is a very hot solution of hydr. bichl. (gr. ij in aq. Oi). Eisenmann.—On Chlorine Lotions in Variola. Bull, de Therap., tome 56, p. 232. Med. T. and Gaz., Feb. nth. Eisenmann believes that chlorine lotions to the skin, employed at the period of eruption, present the following advantages: (1) They favour the development of the eruption and thus mitigate febrile action. (2) The pustules are not too abundant and do not become confluent. (3) There is no subsidence or repercussion of the pustules observed, nor any variolous affection of the mucous membrane, or of an internal organ. (4) The patients suffer little during the height of the ex- anthem, preserve their appetite, and sleep well. (5) The course of the exanthem is very rapid; and there is neither suppuration with its consecutive fever, or tumefaction, salivation, &c. (6) Scabs do not arise, only thin pellicles forming, which soon fall without leaving any mark or cicatrix. (7) No consecutive affections are observed. When resorted to only after the eruption has taken place, the lotions produce the following effects: (1) They diminish or disperse the inflammatory condition, and accelerate the course of the exanthem. (2) They prevent its repercussion and the propagation of the variolous affection to the mucous membranes and internal organs. (3) In cases in which the mucous membranes have already become affected the lotions exert a derivative action; and if, together with them, gargarisms, chlorine inhalations, and chlorined water internally are had recourse to, the intensity of these complications is much diminished, so that recovery takes place in cases in which life seemed to have been in great danger. (4) Employed hi good time, the lotions, even when the eruption has become developed, may yet prevent suppuration. If, however, this has taken place, it may still be moderated; and we find neither irritation of the skin, nor intoxication of the blood from absorption of pus, and consequently no general reaction. (5) Thin scabs only are formed, which fall off soon, only leaving temporary red marks. (6) No consecutive diseases arise. Veiel.— Use of Chloride of Zinc in Skin Diseases. Wien. Ztschr., N. F., iii, 8, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 106, p. 164. Veiel uses chloride of zinc as a solid, or as a spirituous solutionOUT \M ••! - SYSTEM. 253 fednal parts of the salt and spirit), or as a watery solution (2—10 parts of the salt to 500 of water and 10 of H.O.). He finds it veiy useful in lupus, using the stronger preparations in those cases where the disease is deep seated. In various other skin affections it is also beneficial. Gambehini and Tiiiry.—On Chancre. Schmidt's Jahrb., "Vol. 107, p. 45. J. de Bruxelles, xxix, Aug. 1859. Presse med. 38, 39, 1859. Gamberini and Thiry agree that there is only one kind of chancre, which is inoculable and communicable. Thiry differs from Gamberini as to the value of induration, holding it to be essential to the develop- ment of constitutional syphilis. Neither does he believe with Gam- berini that a new chancre can produce a new general infection. Hutchinson.—A Clinical Report on Rodent Ulcer. Med. T. and Gaz., Aug. 18, 25; Sept. 8, 15, 29. Hutchinson, after giving a series of cases of rodent ulcer, with comments on the principal points, sums up with 14 aphorisms, which we transcribe in an abbreviated form. (1) There occurs not un- frequently on the face a form of ulceration characterized by an indurated edge and a tendency to spread to adjacent structures indiscriminately, of slow progress, not painful, not inducing cachexia, and never followed by enlarged glands or visceral deposits. (2) The cell structures met with in its vicinity are not those of cancer, but of organising fibrous tissue. (3) This ulcer differs from lupus exedens in never occurring in the young, never getting well spontaneously, and having an extremely indurated ridge, without tubercles, or much congestion. (4, 5, 6, 7) This ulcer is closely allied to cancer, but yet widely different, its best designation probably is Rodent. (8) It is most common between the ages of 50 and 60, and is equally frequent in both sexes. (9) It is veiy rarely met with except on the face, and is most common on the eyelids; it has never been observed on the lower lip. (12) The younger the patient is the more rapid will be the course of the disease, and vice versa, and the young-er the patient the more nearly is the disease allied to cancer, and the more likely to recur after removal. Left to itself it destroj^s life in from 10 to 25 years by exhaustion consequent on haemorrhage, suppuration, pain, &c. (13) The best treatment is excision of the part and transplantation of skin. Escharotics may in some localities and in some stages be advisable. Ott.—Epidemic of Malignant Pustule at Inzenhof. Ungar. Ztschr., xi, 2, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 39. Ott has observed the occurrence of gangrenous furuncles and other forms of anthrax sporadically every year, in connection with ague and malarious cachexia. In 1853, it prevailed epidemically after a great epidemic of ague, and was confined to those who had been affected. It was again epidemic in the latter part of the summer of 1859. Of 15 cases, 3 died, in whom the tumour was seated on the neck; in the remaining twelve it was situated on the right side of the face in 8. It254 REPOBT ON PRACTICAL MEDICIN'K. came on with typhoid fever, violent burning- pain, phlegmonous in- ilarnmation, and considerable swelling, l-'rom (lie 4th to the 8th day a bluish grey pustule, as large as a bean formed on the top of the swelling, while the tumour went on enlarging, became more hard and uneven and black, while the surrounding areolar tissue inflamed extensively. As the slough became limited the fever declined, and the debility reached its greatest amount. IIuTcnrNSON.—Clinical Report on Epithelial Cancer. Med. T. and Gaz., Oct. 6th, 13th, 20th, 27th; Nov. 3rd, 10th, 24th; Dec. ist. Hutchinson gives a table of 115 cases, to which 12 others less per- fectly recorded may be added. Of the whole, 121 were men. The lower lip was the site of the disease in 113, the upper lip in 5, the angle of the mouth and part of both lips in 8. Of 102 cases whose age is stated, 1 was under 30, 8 between 30 and 40, 21 between 40 and 50, 19 between 50 and 60, 33 between 60 and 70, 15 between 70 and 80, 4 above 80 years of age. Of the 127 cases, 3 ended fatally from operations, within 10 days; 4 had return of cancer in the wound; 9 had return of cancer in the cicatrix at different periods after the opera- tion ; 5 had cancerous disease of the lymphatic glands subsequently; 3 had cancerous disease of the opposite part of the lip; while of 105 there is no further note than that the patients recovered, and left the hospital with sound cicatrices. Hutchinson advocates the removal of diseased submaxillary lymphatic glands. Tkyde.—Some Observations with reference to Sudden Death in connection with Furuncles of the Face. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Dec. ist. Tryde relates and remarks upon some cases in which phlebitis super- vened upon erysipelatoid inflammation of the skin of the face, and extended upwards through the veins of the orbit to the cavernous sinus. W, Pirrie.—Observations on Favus. Lancet, Dec. 8th, 15th. Pirrie believes that " the peculiar matter of favus is an exudation on the surface of the derma; that this exudation becomes the seat of peculiar phytaceous growths which, in the progress of development, penetrate the epidermis, and become encysted by its scales; and that the hair-follicles are not the seat of the disease, but only become secondarily affected." For this last opinion he gives, among other reasons, his observation, that a crust of short duration may lie raised from the scalp, and drawn over the hair, leaving the latter standing 111 its follicle. In Scotland, he finds it is by no means a rare disease, " being exceedingly common in Edinburgh." He concludes that it is ;i blood disorder, and that the fungus is not the sole nor the original cause of the eruption ; that many are insusceptible of it; that it is feebly contagious, and often arises independently of contagion; that struma and dirt strongly predispose to it; and that general as well as local treatment is necessary. Hardy.—Lectures on Diseases of the Sfcin. Paris, Dclahaye, 1858—1859. 2 vols. 8. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 293.255 CUTANE0T7S SYSTEM. Hardy attempts a simpler and more natural arrangement of skin diseases, rejecting that usually adopted in England. The form which the disorder presents, he regards as secondary, and looks chiefly to its nature, lie makes 10 groups, including cancerous, scrofulous, and syphilitic affections, as well as the exanthemata. Dl-ciiesxe-Dltarc.—Practical Treatise of Dermatoses, or Skin Diseases classed according to the Natural Method. Paris, Bailliere, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 293. Duchesne-Duparc is a devoted follower of Alibert, at least in the matter of nomenclature; he makes 11 groups of skin diseases, which do not differ materially in principle of arrangement from Hardy's. v. Barensprung.—Skin Diseases. 1 Lieferung, Erlangen, Enke, 1859, 8. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 293. Barensprung considers skin diseases under the heads of derange- ments of innervation, of secretion, and of nutrition. He endeavours to examine not mere external appearances, but the morbid process in its entirety. Heschl.—On Cutaneous Horns. Oesterrh. Zeitsch. f. prakt. Heilkde, 1859, 4. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 298. Heschl recognizes, with Virchow, 3 kinds of horns; one (the rarest) is formed upon an elongated papilla of the skin; a second grows out of sebaceous follicle (the commonest form), and a thud seems to be produced by a circumscribed ichthyosis. He records the case of a Jewish girl, who had 16 of this latter sort. Hecker.—Elephantiasis, or Lepra Arabica. Monograph with 5 litho- graphic plates. Fridburg, 1858. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 298. Hecker relates a case of elephantiasis in a female, aet. 32, which terminated fatally after an operation for its removal. He says the exudation is in a high degree organizable, analogous to plastic lymph, as it contains innumerable molecular granulations, and an immense number of nuclei free or enclosed in cells very different from their analogues in the lymphatic glands. He thinks an operation should not be performed when the disease is endemic, and general dyscrasia exists. Hebra.—Clinic for Skin Diseases; Cutaneous Haemorrhages. All gem. Wicn. Med. Ztg., 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, 304. Hebra distinguishes cutaneous haemorrhages into 2 groups; the idiopathic, occurring as mere local affections, and the symptomatic, occasioned by other morbid processes. Among the latter, he notices Peliosis rheumat. or Roseola rheum., which is prone to relapse several times, and to recur for months or even years; also Purp. febrilis, which is always complicated with internal haemorrhage, and always proves fatal in 3 or 4 days. He remarks, in general, that no safe diagnosis can be formed from the external appearances only, all the existing symptoms must be taken into account.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. TBOU88BA.U.—On Erysipelas. Qlmqw Europ., 1859, 26. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 305. Trousseau admits a predisposing influence depending on the general character of disease at the time, but asserts that erysipelas nevertheless always originates from some external injury or irritation, it may be very slight. Ixxiiauser.—On the Application of Collodion. Zeitschr. d. k. k. Gesellch. d. Aerzte, 1859, Dec 20th. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 305. Innhauser has obtained very good results from the use of a combi- nation of collodion and castor oil externally in erysipelatous inflamma- tions. Hardy.—On Erythema. Cliniquc Europ., 1859, 4 and 6. After describing several varieties, Hardy goes on to speak of one which he names scarlatinoid. This appears suddenly, or after 1 or 2 days of ailing, on the anterior surface of the thorax, arms and abdomen, or over the whole body; may be attended with fever, and terminates in 24—48 hours, leaving some desquamation. A pretty full account is given of all the forms of erythema. Hebra.—On Eczema; Clinic for Shin Diseases. Allgem. Wien. Medicin. Ztg., 1859, p. 43. Allgem. Wien. Medicin. Ztg. 1859. Report by Dr. Ch. Miiller, Wien. Spitalztg. 1859, p. 22. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 308. Hebra distinguishes 5 forms of eczema, which he docs not regard as so many grades or species, but as different manifestations (bilder). These are (1) Ecz. squamos. s. Pityriasis rubra; (2) Ecz. papulos, s. E. lichenoides, s. Lichen eczematodes; (3) Ecz. vesiculare, Ecz. solare; (4) Ecz. rubrum s. madidans; (5) Ecz. impetiginosum s. Impetigo eczematosa. These forms can be artificially produced by inunction with croton oil. He gives a detailed description of Ecz. in almost every part of the body, even on some of the mucous surfaces at their junction with the outer integument; but the only point of much novelty seems to us the statement that Ecz. of the lips alternates occasionally with Ecz. of the aixns, and that, especially in the latter situation, a remarkable seesaw (to coin a word) is observed between the cutaneous eruption and dyspepsia, the latter ceasing as soon as the Ecz. is developed. In the matter of treatment, Hebra seems to have little faith in internal remedies, and to rely chiefly on external. Arsenic, he says, must be given in large doses, which he is evidently shy of. After getting rid of scabs and crusts, he recommends the application of caustics, especially strong solutions of potash (even up to Potass. Caustic. 3i. ad Aquae 3ij.), or Schmier-soap, or Potash-glycerine, or Hydr. Bichl. gr. ij—v. ad Aq. Si. These are to be continued as long as they produce a pretty strong reaction of the morbid surface, viz.. excoriations, red pimples, and vesicles. When the reaction ceases, we are to resort to tar diluted with alcohol, ol. fagi, or huile de cade, or to ointments containing the usual preparations of mercury, zinc, and lead. He ends by saying, in relapses which are by no means rare, the whole treatment must be gone through again.CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. 257 F. HakTMANN. On Encysted Tumours; Atheromas. Virchow's Archiv. xii, p. 430—454. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 323. Hartmann insists that these tumours are solid from the first, and are not distended follicles. Softening of their contents with fatty change and calcareous deposition is a subsequent occurrence, while distended follicles arc soft from the first. Porta.—Oft Sebacco-follicular Tumours. Ann. Univers., 1859, May. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 329. Porta distinguishes 3 lands of these tumours; (1) isolated and m small number; (2) multitudinous, scattered like an exanthem over the whole surface; (3) massy formations of greatly enlarged glands often degenerating into ill-looking ulcers, and requiring extirpation. Hebra.—On Acne Rosacea and Sycosis. Wiener Spitalzeitung, 1859, 18. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 330, 331. Hebra states that excess in drinking is not the only cause of Acne ros.; it may be produced by all hypereerniating influences affecting the head. Potash soap is to be applied twice a day, and sulphur made into a paste with diluted spirit at night. He agrees with Chaussit, that sycosis is not essentially a parasitic disease, and treats it by removal of the diseased hairs, and application of the above-mentioned sulphur paste followed the succeeding day by potash soap. Chaussit.—Sycosis or Mentacjra. Paris, Leclerc, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. iii, p. 331. Chaussit believes sycosis to consist essentially in inflammation of the hair follicles, and only admits the presence of fungi as an accidental occurrence. It occurs especially in persons of fine and sensitive skin and strong beard, and in those who are exposed to heat and cold. Chaussit makes two principal divisions of sycosis—the superficial, or pustulous, and the subdermic, comprising the tuberculous and phlegmo- nous varieties. The first is hard to cure, lasts long, often relapses, but does not produce alopecia. The latter is always attended with alopecia, though mostly temporary, occurs at all ages, and in all con- stitutions, has an acute, regular, and generally short course, and no marked tendency to relapse. In the way of treatment, he counsels first to subdue all trace of inflammation, and then to apply mercurial or iodine ointments alternating with an alkaline wash. Vapour douches, alkaline baths, aloetic ointment, are useful in certain cases, as also 01. Morrh. and Arsenic internally. Bamberger.—On Pemphigus. Wurzb. med. Ztschr. i, x, p. 1 flg., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 319. Bamberger examined the urine, blood, and the bullse-fluid of a csae under his care. The urine was scanty, strongly acid, of high specific gravity, relatively rich in urea, uric acid, chlorine and earthy phos- phates, poor in phosphoric and sulphuric acids, but contained an actual deficiency of all its ingredients. The presence of ammonia was its most remarkable peculiarity. No albumen or sugar. The blood was poor in solids, especially in albumen, and contained ammonia. The 17REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 258 bulky-fluid was alkaline, contained ammonia, but no urea; its albumen was less than that of the blood serum, salts and extractives about the saute. In the way of treatment, Bamberger advises to give plenty of easily assimilable alhuminous food and muriatic acid, and to eliminate the ammoniaeal salts by the secretions. Gtntrac.—On Hypertrophic Lupus. Journ. de Med. de Bordeaux. Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 10. Gintrac records a case which was nearly 4 years under his care, and at last recovered completely. The treatment consisted of repeated cauterizations with Vienna powder, and nitrate of silver, arsenic, and sulphur baths. Wagner cut out a small piece from the scalp of a girl, ret. 11, who was affected with complete alopecia. lie states that epidermis, rete Malpighii, corium, and hair-follicles were normal. Ancell.—On the Roman Bath. Brit. Med. J., Nov. 17th. Ancell advocates the utility of the Roman bath as the means best calculated to correct a hydremic condition of the system. SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST VARIETIES. Foissac and Emsmann.—Meteorology with respect to the Doctrine of the Cosmos, and in its Relations to Medicine and general Sanitary Science. P. 656. Leipzig, Wigaud. Sciiwarz.—On the Medical Knoicledge of the Inhabitants of Tahiti. Zeitschr. d. Gcsellck. d. Aerzte zu Wien., Aug., 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan., i860. Schwarz.—On Chinese Medicines. Zeitschr. d. Gescllch. d. Aerzte zu Wien., Sept., 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan., i860. Mirror.—4 Cases of Saturnine Disease; Vaccination in JPertussis. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 21st. Lancet, Jan. 21st, i860. Hanbury, 0.—Fatal Effect of a Bee Sting, with Notices of some Analogous Cases. Med. T. and Gaz., March 10th, i860. Trist, H. B.—Electro-Magnetism in Subacute and Chronic Rheumatism (case). Anieric. J. of Med. Sciences, Jan. i860, p. 119. Dalton.—On the Comparative Danger of Ether and Chloroform. Med. T. and Gaz., March 31st. Tabular Report 0/33 Cases of Hydatid I'umours. Med. T. and Gaz., April 7 th. Henry.—Lectures on the History of Medicine. Brit. Med. J., April 7th; March 24th; April 14th, 21st; May 12th, 26th; June 2nd. Bartholow, R.—History, Medical Topography, Climatology. Hygiene. Diseases, tf-c, of Fort Bridger, Utah Territory. Amer. J. of Mod. Sciences, April, i860, p. 323. Rose, Betz, Loiirmann.—On Santonine. Virchow's Archiv. xviii. 1,2. i860. Mcmorabil. a. d. Prax. v. 2. i860. Schmidt's Jahrb. Vol. 106, p. 160.259 SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. The Results of Vaccination in the Prussian Army during 1859. Med. T. and Gaz., Juno 2nd. Adam.—The Hospitals of Munich. Edin. Med. J., July, p. 25. Gorley. On the Properties of Kaica or A va Root. Brit, and For. Med.- Chir. Rev., p. 251, i860. Adam.—Notes on the Baths of the Salzkammergut, and on the Route to Vienna by the Danube. Edin. Med. J., Aug., p. 115. Bariiam.—On Climate, and some of its Medical Aspects. Brit. Med. J., Aug. 25th; Sept. 1st, 8th. ScnnoFF.—On Hellebore. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 294. Musizzano, Borelli, Berrutti.—Cyanide of Iron ; Sodium and Salicine in Ague. Gazz. Sard. 38, 1859; 17, 18, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 294. Report of a Select Committee of the New York Chamber of Commerce on Quarantine. Americ. J. of Med. Sciences, April, i860, p. 470. Devay.—On some Causes of Disease p>ec\diar to our Time. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 69. Demeaux and Edm. Corne.—Note on the Disinfection and Dressing of Wounds read before the French Academy of Sciences, July 18th, 1859. D. and C. recommend a mixture of 1—3 parts of coal-tar Avith powdered gypsum. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 116. Velpeau.—On the Effects obtained in the Treatment of Wounds and Ulcers by the employment of the Disinfecting Mixture of MM. Corne and Demeaux. The paper was read and discussed at the meeting of the French Academy of Sciences, July 25th, 1859. Further com- munications and accounts of this matter were given at the meetings of Aug. 1st, 8th, 16th, 21st, 29th, and Sept. 5th and 19th. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 116. Marchal de Calvi.—Note on the use of Iodine as a Disinfectant and Antiseptic. Acad, of Sciences, Aug. 8th 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 116. Moride.—On the application of Boghead Cole poivdered to the preservation and disinfection of Animal and Vegetable Matters. Communicated to the Acad, of Sciences, Aug. 8th, 1859. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 116. Henry.—On the Disinfectants used in Medicine. Arch. Gen. de Med., Oct. 1859. Canst. Jahbr., Vol. ii, p. 116. Forget.—The Influence of Warm Climates upon Phthisis. Gaz. Hebd. de Med. and de Chir., June 8, i860. N. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., Sept. i860. Ogle.—A Chapter in Clin. Med.: What to observe in Diphtheria. Arch. of Med., i860, No. vi. Beale.—On a simp>le and accurate method of recording Physical Signs. Arch, of Med. i860, No. vi. Balfour.—On the Manufacture of Castor Oil at Dinapore. Edin. Med. J., October. Hastings.—Influence of Tobacco-smoking on Public Health. Brit. Med. J., Oct. 6th. Cooke.—On Kulcui or Kehune Oil. Lon. Med. Rev., Sept. Horson.—The History and present state of Medicine in China. Med. Tf and Gaz., Oct. 27th, Nov. 10th, 17th; Dec. 29.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKUICINT.. 2(50 V. Liciitenfels, FbtepkeiOH, ThOBBURN, Scott Alison.—On Percus- sion and Auscultation. Wien. Ztschr. N. P. ii, 34, 1859. Verli. d. Phys. Med. Ges. zu Wurzburg, Vol. vii. Schmidt s Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 236. Jaffe.—Hypnotism or Braidism in its relations to Medicine, Surgery, Phy- siology, and Mesmerism. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 238. Schildracii.—Report on recent Contributions to the Literature of Sea- bathing. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 241 Medical Constitution of the Spring and Summer of i860, in France. Edin. Med. J., Nov., 486. Spratly.—A new form of Instrument for Vaccinating. Lancet, Xov. 3rd. P. Seitz.—Report respecting Medical Geography. Canst. Jahrb., Vol. ii, p. 125—175. Falck, v. Hasselt, Rienoeriioff.—On the action of Santonin. Deutsche Klin. 27, 28, i860. Arch. f. boll. Beitr. ii, 3, i860. Bull, do Therap. lviii, June i860. Lefort.—Citrate of Magnesia Lemonade. Jour, dc Phannacie. Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 152. Devf.rgie.—Report on the Chem. Composition and Medical employment of the Oils from the liver of the Cod, the Skate, and the Dog Fish. Bull. Gen. de Therap., May 15th, 1859. Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., Jan. i860. Devergie reports on a memoir of M. Delattre to the following effect: The oils were obtained quite pure from oleic, sulphuric and phosphoric acids, by preparing- them excluded from the air. All the oils contain a very large proportion of oleine, with some margarine, and some very small quantities of chlorine, iodine, bromine, sulphur, and phosphorus, whicb exist in a free, uncombined state. The proportions of iodine, bromine, and phosphorus, differ very slightly in the three kinds of oil. With regard to the medical properties of these oils, M. Delattre arrives at the following conclusions :—(1.) That the physiological action of the fisb-liver oils is the same, whatever be the kind employed. (2.) These oils may be considered as succedaneous to one another, and may all be employed in the treatment of scrofulous, cutaneous, and rheumatic affec- tions. (3.) The cod-liver oil is more efficacious in scrofulous phthisis than the skate or dog-fish oil. The skate oil effects more rapidly the cure of serous diarrhoea, and of mesenteric engorgement in children during dentition; it is also more efficacious in the treatment of cutaneous diseases, and of clu'onic rheumatism. (4.) The dog-fish oil appears to exercise a special action upon alterations of the bones, and in all cases it may be advantageously substituted for cod-liver oil. M. Devergie found, that of 20 patients, 18 preferred the dog-fish to the cod oil, and some who coidd not take the latter, tolerated the former. The ques- tion as to the relative value of the 3 oils, was left undecided from the absence of sufficient evidence. Davaine.—Researches into the development and propagation of the Trico- cephahis and Ascaris Lumbricoides. J.dc la Physiol.,No. vi, April, 1S59. Dr. Davaine has satisfied himself that the ova of the tricoccphalus dispar, and ascaris lumbricoides, are not hatched in the intestine, butSUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 261 arc exoelled as they are laid. He succeeded in obtaining their dcvclop- l i,iX P adng them in water, which was changed every day. The process did not begin for 6 months, and the embryo was not formed till nearly 9 had elapsed. Vogler and Sales-Girons.—On Inhalation as a means of Curb Deutsche Klinik, 35, 1859. Bull dc Ther. lvi, Feb. 1859. Schmidt s Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 36. Voider describes the effects produced by inhaling more or less com- pletely the carbonic acid gas (diluted with air) which is given off from the springs at Ems. More or less irritation is produced, and it is only in cases of a torpid character that the practice is beneficial. Sales- Girons recommends the inhalation of air charged with the spray of various medicated liquids. The spray (staub) is obtained by means of a contrivance which throws a fine stream of the liquid against an obstacle. Lancet, Jan. 21st, i860.—Four cases of saturnine disease arc re- corded in the "Mirror;" one from the use of white and red lead in work, one from taking snuff adulterated with lead, one from drinking water contaminated by lead, one from scouring pewter pots. Unguen- tum Ghjcerinii, composed of 5 parts of glycerine, and 1 part of starch, forms a most excellent recipient. Vaccination in Pertussis (v. Med. T. and Gaz., Jan. 21st) has been tried in Kowno, Kussia. The vesicles followed their usual course, some- times beneficially modifying the pertussis, at others not. Hermann.—On the influence of dilution of the Blood upon the Secretion of Urine. Virch. Arch., xvii, 1859. Dublin Q. J. of Med. Sc., Feb. i860. Hermann, after injecting water into the veins of dogs, observed that biliary pigment passed off in the urine, which was not otherwise abnormal. If the quantity of water, however, exceeded a certain amount, then the urine became red, and contained hrematosine and albumen, but not constantly blood cells. The author believes that the dilution of the blood as such does not cause the transudation of the albumen of the serum into the urine, but that it sets free a consider- able quantity of hamiatoglobulin, which transudes more easily through the walls of the Malpig.-tufts than serum-albumen does. He also believes that the biliary pigment is produced by a transformation of the hsematosine, in accordance with the observations of Ktihne. Marchax de Calvi praises iodine as an excellent disinfectant, as destroying fungi and improving the state of unhealthy wounds. Bon- nafont recommends aathcrisation as a means of arresting relapsing intermittent fever. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 174. Linnart and Buciiner each relate a fatal case of chloroform inhala- tion. Friedberg, one of recovery from the same state by means ofKF.rOKT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 2G2 faradising the phrenic nerves after Other means had failed. Saurel and Curling, cases of (esophageal constriction and delir. tremens, in which chloroform internally proved curative. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 174. A case is recorded of the poisonous effect of sewer gases on a labourer employed in making a drain. The symptoms were delirium, icteric coloration, epistaxis, prostration. The disease did not resemble typhus or typhoid. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 105, p. 177. Glycerole of Lead is formed by mixing 1 dram of powdered cam- phor with 13^ oz. of glycerine, dissolving it, and adding %\ oz. of liq. plumbi diacet. Rilliet, Boinkt, Ricord, Bouciiardat, Piorry, CiiATix. — On Consti- tutional Iodism, and the Administration of Iodine. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 107, p. 295. Rilliet distinguishes 3 kinds of iodine-poisoning, which may be vari- ously blended. The first is characterised by an acute irritation of the digestive canal, induced by large doses of preparations of iodine. The second is marked by various nervous disorders, derangements of the secretions, and skin eruptions, with which may be associated atrophy of the mammae and testicles. The third is a peculiar cachexia, induced by very small, almost infinitesimal, doses of iodine, as even the minute amount contained in sea air, or 01. Morrh. Its most marked features arc rapid emaciation, increase of appetite, and nervous palpitation of the heart. Boinet, on the contrary, from the use of iodized bread, has observed no emaciation, but rather the reverse. Ricord, Chatin, Piorry, doubt of the effect of iodine hi producing cachexia. Bouchardat lays stress on Rilliet's remark, that constit. iodism especially occurs in the goitrous, and explains thereby its infrequency in Paris. IIaller.—Notes on Coca. Wien. Ztschr. N. F. hi, 28, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 28. ITallen says, the chemical action of coca leaves appears to resemble that of wine and tea, as it diminishes considerably the natural decay of the tissues. It resembles Indian hemp in causing dilatation of the pupils, opium in its power of increasing the forces of the exhausted system, and in its peculiar psychical action. Jaffe.—Hypnotism or J3raidism in its relations to Medicine, Surgery, Physi- ology, and Mesmerism. Schmidt's Jahrb., Vol. 108, p. 238. Jaffe, after an historical notice of Braidism, relates the experience^ of several observers who have tried it, and concludes that the state in- duced is one of sopor, characterised by catalepsy or blunting of the sensory powers, which mostly can only be produced in hysterical females. He does not think it can ever replace chloroform, but may however be useful as a means of calming certain pains in the genera- tive organs.SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 263 Ekil.—Egypt as a Residence for European Invalids. Edin. Med. J., . April, i860. Reil observes that, in Cairo the air is very dry, and the thermome- trical oscillations arc pretty considerable during the winter months; whilst in Madeira the air is very moist, and the variations of temper- ature are trifling. " An acute form of phthisis, with intense fever, frequent short cough, great dyspnoea on exertion, expectoration scanty, but often sang-uinolent: such are the symptoms which appear to indi- cate a residence in Madeira;" while in chronic phthisis, with abundant, not sangiuneous expectoration, and occasional ameliorations, Cairo is preferable. There seems to be some evidence to show that albuminuria lias ceased in phthisical residents in Cairo, and that the process of granular degeneration has been arrested (from autopsies). In such cases also, cavities have been found in jDrogress of contraction and cure.REPORT ON SURGERY. J. W. HULKE, F.R.C.S., ASSISTANT-SUUOEON TO KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL, AND TO THE ROYAL LONDON OPHTHALMIC HOSPITAL. MANUALS, TEXT-BOOKS, LECTURES, AND TREATISES, ON GENERAL SURGERY. Erichsen, J. E.—The Science and Art of Surgery. 3d edit. Walton and Maberly, London, i860. This edition of Erichsen's well-known work is considerably enlarged, and contains much new matter. Pirrie, Wm.—The Principles and Practice of Surgery. 2d edit. London, 870, pp. 878. A compendium of Prof. Pirrie's surgical lectures. Forster, J . C.—The Surgical Diseases of Children. 8vo, London, Parker and Son. Johnson, Athol A.—Lectures on the Surgery of Childhood- Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 21, p. 41, and Jan. 28, p. 61. Travers, Ben j.—Further Observations in several parts of Surgery. 8vo, Longman and Co. These observations treat of injuries of the hip-joint, boils and car- buncle, hernia, haemorrhage, tetanus, and diseases of the breast. Loiijieyer and Paul.—General and Special Surgery. 8vo, Lahr, i860. Bryant, T.— Clinical Surgery. The Injuries and Diseases of the Nervous System. Part 1. London, John Churchill, i860. (Tract.) The author aims at illustrating the surgery of injuries of the skull and spine, by a series of cases selected from the practice of Guy's Hospital. Emmert, C.—Manual of Surgery. 2d edit., vol. i. Stuttgart, Dnnn. Roser, W.—Manual of Anatomical Surgery. .3d edit., with woodcuts. Tubingen, Laupp. Paul, H. J.—Conservative Surgery of the Limbs, or an Exposition of the Means and Methods for the Prevention and Limitation of Ampu- tations, andparlicidarly Resections. Breslaw, Irewendt. Barjjeleben.—A Manual of Surgery and Operations. Berlin, Reimers.GK.NERAL SURGERY. 265 STMONDS, F.—On the General Treatment of Patients before and after Surgical Operations. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 13, p. 351. The author's remarks refer to the means of preventing the secondary complications, which often bring the most promising case to a fatal issue. He insists on a careful examination of the internal organs before under- taking an operation, with a view to improve the condition of any which may be found faulty, and shows the great importance which attaches to a fatty state of the liver. The necessity of free ventilation is inculcated, and chlorine recommended as a deodorant. Diet should be regulated according to the real wants of the case. Good broth, with vegetables boiled in it, is better than beef-tea. Lastly, medicines which (like iodide of potassium) are slowly eliminated from the system, should be discon- tinued before an operation, and large doses of opium should not be indis- criminately given after it. Hilton.—A Course of Lectures on Pain, and the Therapeutic Influence of Mechanical and Physiological Rest, in Accidents and Surgical Diseases. Lancet, Aug. nth, and following Nos. Prichard, Aug. — Ten Tears of Operative Surgery in the Provinces. Brit. Med. Jour., Oct. 6th, p. 776; 13th, p. 795 ; 20th, p. 818; 27th, p. 833 ; Nov. 3d, p. 856; 10th, p. 876; 17th, p. 893. Regionally arranged : 1. Operations on face, tongue, palate, neck, and chest. 2. Hare-lip. Prichard uses strong scissors and German pins. 3. Cancer of lip—staphyloraphy. Prichard simply pared the edges of the cleft palate without cutting levatores palati, and three out of four cases succeeded. 4. Tracheotomy and thoracentesis. 5. Abdomen and lower bowel. Maunder.—Operative Surgery. Parti. London, J. Churchill, i860. A profusely illustrated, descriptive manual of operations, adapted to the dead and living subject. Brown, John.—Notes on the Surgery of the Indian Campaign of 1857-58. Edin. Medical Jour. A description of the most important features in the surgical cases which came under the author's notice. Stromeyer, L. D.—Maxims of Military Surgery. Hanover, 1861. This is the second edition, enlarged and illustrated, of this well- known work. Loffler.—Principles and Rules for the Treatment of Gunshot Wounds in War. Berlin, Aug. Hirsehwald, 1859. Part 2, " In the Field Hospital." Gurlt.—On the Transport of the Badly Wounded and Sic/c in War, with Suggestions on the Employment of Railroads fur this mtrnose Berlin, i860. • Burggraefe, A.—Theoretical and Practical Surgery. Ghent. Care!., 1859-60. Canst., vol. v, p. 206.HEPOHT OX SU1K1ERY. 260 GiiNTHKR.—Study of the Moody Operations on the Human Body. Leipsic and Heidelberg. Part IV. The Operations on the Pelvis, Belly, and Chest. Canst., vol. v, p. 205. Webek, Otto.—Surgical Experiences and Investigations, with numerous Observations, from the Surgical Clinic and the Evangelical Hospital at Bonn. With 8 plates. Berlin, lleimer, 1859, 8vo. Canst., vol. v, p. 206. A commentary on the practice of Wutzer and Busch. In a section on death from the inhalation of chloroform, Weber remarks that apnoea, and the asphyxia attendant on it, are the more dangerous because the brain, being stupefied, cannot assist in restoring the functions of respiration and circulation. This is the whole secret of death from chloroform. He rejects the theory that chloroform kills, by directly paralysing the heart, or by causing the closure of the glottis, and finds the danger of anaesthesia in the facility with which fainting and suffocation occur, which, under the existing depression of the nervous system, may bring about death. Chloro- form ought to be exhibited with extreme caution to persons who are liable to faint, or whose respiration is embarrassed. He rejects special apparatus, and recommends the rhythmical injection of air through a wide silver tube, introduced into the larynx, alternately with methodical pressure on the belly. The Marshall Hall method may be tried at the same time. When fatal syncope threatened, Wutzer was accustomed to inject forcibly a stream of cold water into the nostril, and in this way powerfully to stimulate the trigeminal nerve. In a chapter on the pathology and treatment of tumours, he speaks disparagingly of the results of the medical treatment of heteroplastic for- mations, whilst in hyperplastic growths he regards iodide of potassium as a valuable remedy. ' He mentions the acetate of lead as a very useful application to the mucous membrane after removal of nasal polypi. Chloride of zinc he regards as a more powerful caustic than arsenious acid, and thinks the objection raised against caustic potash—that it leads to a bad suppuration—is unfounded. The application of potash is less painful than that of other caustics. In some remarks upon haemostatics, he mentions the Liquor Ferri Ses- quichloridi as undoubtedly the best styptic, but says that it slightly cauterizes the wound, and in this way retards the healing. He considers it unnecessary to tie superficial vessels when they are bleeding, as the temporal or facial, and thinks it better practice to pass a pin beneath them. He gives this as an old custom. WOUNDS. 1. Cicatrization. Demarquay and LECONTE.—The Cicatrization of Wounds under the Influence of Carbonic Acid. Ann. par Jamain et \R aim, p. 109. These experimenters found that oxygen sensibly retards the reparation of subcutaneous wounds, whilst carbouic acid promotes it in a very remarkable manner.WOUNDS. 267 2. Gangrene. Gjioii, Dr.—On Hospital Gangrene. Wien Med. Ztschr., 35—38, 1858. Schmidt, No. 5, vol. 106, p. 198. Groh ascribes the origin of hospital gangrene mainly to epidemic influences, amongst which sudden changes of temperature take an impor- tant place. Next to pysemia, exhausting haemorrhages are the most unfavorable complication. Of fifty-nine patients affected with this disease, seven only died, four of these of pyaemia, the other three during convales- cence (one of tuberculosis, one heart disease, one pleuro-pneumonia). The treatment consisted in free ventilation, constant fumigations, the removal of all infected matters, the destruction of the phagedenic surfaces with chloride of calcium or mineral acid, and the exhibition of stimulants. IIandyside.—Case of Traumatic Spreading Gangrene after severe Compound Fracture of the Leg, for which Amputation beneath the Trochanter was performed, and the Arteries secured by four Acu- pressure Needles ; the Femoral Artery, at its giving off the Profunda Branch, ivas relieved from Pressure at the forty-ninth hour after the Operation; with Recovery, and Remarks. Edin. Med. Jour., Dec. 1, p. 504. 3. Tetanus. Skey.—A Clinical Lecture on Tetanus. Lancet, July 7th, p. 1. Tetanus, its recent Prevalence in the London Hosjritals. Med. Times and Gaz., July 14, p. 34. Brochin.—On Curara in Tetanus. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 142. A notice of three cases of traumatic tetanus, occurring in the French military hospital in Turin during the late Italian campaign, two of which were fatal, and one recovered under the administration of curara; even in the fatal cases, calmness and muscular relaxation followed its use. Gin tea c . Case of Traumatic Tetanus unsuccessfully treated by Curara. Ib., p. 148. Farrage.—Two Cases of Idiopathic Tetanus treated by Indian Hemp. Lancet, Sept. 15th, p. 262. Stanley.—Reduction of Compound Dislocation of the Ankle-joint; Heath Jrom Tetanus on the eighth day after. Lancet, Aug. 18th, p. 162. Mohgax.—Acute Traumatic Tetanus from Wound of the Foot; Recovery under the use of Tincture of Aconite. Lancet, Aug. i8th, p. 162 A boy pricked the ball of his foot with a rusty nail, August soth, 18'8 .v ptember 6th,—Stiffness about neck and lower jaw. 12th,—Unabteto open his month ; back stiff. 16th,—Well-marked rigidity of muscles of the neck and jaws; risus sardonicus. Strychnine, one tenth of a grain every two hours, was given, soon diminished to one twentieth of a drain and a hard scar in the sole of the foot was excised. The symptoms in- creased ; general spasm and opisthotonos began. 20th,—Aconite was now208 REPORT ON SURGERY. Walker.—Case of Tetanus. Med. Times and Gnz., March 17th, p. 263. Acute tetanus following a lacerated wound of tlie foot; death eight days after the commencement of the symptoms. CURLING.—Acute Idiopathic Tetanus, terminating Fatally in sixty-eight hours. Lancet, Aug. 18th, p. 163. A married woman, set. 41, had injured her spine by a fall in her youth, and had ever since had great pain in her back when she caught cold. She had broken her ulna three months before the occurrence of tetanus. At the post-mortem examination a small quantity of fluid in the lateral ventricles, and marks of incipient pneumonia, were found. Macmukdo.— Grazing of the Heel of a Sailor, followed by Tetanus; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8th, p. 559. Soult.—Ruptured Popliteal Aneurism, with Gangrene of the Leg; Ampu- tation ; Tetanus; Fatal Result. Ib., p. 561. Johnson.—Extensive Wound of the Hand from a Chaff-cutting Machine, followed by Fatal Tetanus, lb. Cutler.—Lacerated Wound of the Back of the Hand, followed by Fatal T'etanus. Ib. Flower.—Severe Injuries to the Right Hand, followed by Sub-acute Tetanus; Recovery. Ib. The second, third, and fourth of these patients died. The third was treated with turpentine and brandy enemata, the other two with opium. The first was treated with chloroform, internally administered as well as inhaled, mercurial friction, opium and purgatives. The fifth recovered under the use of aconite and morphia. Harper, C.; Hinton, J.; Fox, E. L.—Cases of Traumatic Tetanus. Brit. Med. Journ., March 10th, p. 189. Hailey, H.—Case of Traumatic Tetanus, cured by Chloroform. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 27th, p. 842. Fergusson.—Case of Wound of the Wrist; Death from Tetanus occur- ring fourteen days after the Accident. Lancet, Aug. iSth, p. 161, i860. FERGU3S0N.—Scirrhus of the Breast; Removal; Death from Tetanus occurring seven days after the Operation. Ib. The first of these cases was treated with aconite and subcutaneous injections of a solution of woorara, the second case was treated with conium. 4. Foreign Bodies. Anselmier.—On Searching for Portions of Iron and Steel which have buried themselves in the Soft Tissues. Gaz. des Hop., 109, 1859. Schmidt, p. 80, No. 4, vol. 106. Anselmier recommends the use of a magnetic needle, and mentions cases where he detected portions of iron by its aid. Rothmund, A.—Cases of Foreign Bodies. Deutsche Kliuik, Nos. 15, 16, 17-WOUNDS. 269 One of the most remarkable of these cases is that of a man who, with the intention of destroying himself, swallowed a piece of iron eight and a half inches long, and as thick as a finger. It was soon afterwards felt transversely in the region of the stomach, hut in the following days changed'its situation, and on the nineteenth reached the rectum, which it perforated, and was removed through an incision. Partridge.— Removal of a Jelly-mould from the Vagina; Vesico-vaginul Fistula. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 13th, p. 357. A tin cup, two and a half inches in diameter and about three inches deep, with wrinkled sides, was removed by Partridge from the vagina of an unmarried servant girl, set. 24. Its round bottom was in contact with the os uteri, and its open end pointed towards the vulva. The cup was filled, as well as encrusted externally, with phosphatic deposits ; the vagina also contained a quantity of the same mortar-like material, and several calculi were removed from the bladder through a large opening in the upper wall of the vagina. The patient at first professed ignorance of the presence of the cup, but from subsequent statements it had been in the vagina about one year. <. Sutures and Dressings. Startin.—Description of the New Staple-suture, without a Ligature. Med. Times and Gaz., April 21, i860, p. 391. This is a piece of steel wire, shaped like a staple, the ends of which are grouud to a triangular or glover's point. In using it, the points of the staple are to be thrust through both margins of the wound, and then bent back. Price.—On a Convenient Needle for the Ready Application of Metallic Sutures in the Operations of Cleft Palate, Vesico-vaginal Fislidce, tyc. Med. Times and Gaz., June 9, p. 574. This is Startin's tubular needle, with the addition of a catch-spring fixed to a sliding-bar, that holds the wire and projects it by a movement of the finger. Startin.— Clinical Remarks on Varices and the "Bar-needle and Clasp." Med. Times and Gaz., May 26, p. 516. This needle resembles a sickle with a long, straight handle, to which a small clasp is fitted. The needle being put under the vein, the clasp is hooked over it. Roseh.—The Twisted Suture. Arch. f. Physiol. Heillc, N. F. iii, p. 323, 18^9. Schmidt, No. 9, vol. 107, p. 319. In order to avoid the injurious dragging which often happens in re- moving a deeply placed knotted suture, for instance, in a deeply lacerated perinaeum, Roser, instead of knotting the ends of the thread, twists them together, and then ties them, to prevent them untwisting. In order to remove them, they need only be cut behind the point where they are tied, when they can be easily untwisted, one end of the thread can be shortened, and the loop pulled away by the other end. Simon, Gust.—The Application of several Bows of Sutures for the Union of Wounds. Archiv f. Physiol. Heilk., N. F. iii, p. 312 1859. Schmidt, No. 9, vol. 107, p. 320.HBPOET OX SUItGETtY. 270 A categorical description of the various forms of sutures, composed of two or three rows of stitches, hitherto used or proposed, with indications for their application. Stuassek, Dr.—Collodion Dressing. Schweizer Monatsschr., April. Canst., vol. iv, p. 137. After the wound has been closed with straps of plaster, or Butures, it is to be covered with a hiyer of charpie soaked in collodion. Gustav, Simon.—On the Use of Ilorse-hair for Closing Wounds by the Bloody Suture. Correspondenzblatt des Vereins fur gem. Arbeiten, &c.j No. 1. Canst., vol. iv, p. 139. Horse-hairs, of middle thickness, are recommended as an excellent sub- stitute for silver wire. 6. Local Baths. Zeis.—Permanent or Prolonged Local Baths in various Local Diseasei. A Practical Treatise, by Prof. Ed. Zeis. Leipsic and Heidelberg. Schmidt, No. 9, vol. 107, p. 316. Zeis has the merit of having extensively applied and improved the treatment of various local affections by submersion under water, a method recently recommended by Langenbeck, Flock, and others. Forty-eight hours after the operation, amputation stumps of the thigh and leg were placed in water of 32°—340 R., and kept in it during eight to ten days, after which the limb was bandaged in the usual manner. Accidental wounds of all kinds, ulcers of the legs, &c, were treated by Zeis very successfully in this way. Szymanowski.—Immersion and Irrigation. Deutsche Klin., No. 17, 18. Schmidt, No. 9, vol. 107, p. 318. Szymanowski cuts the receptacles for holding the parts to be immersed out of sheet india rubber, and joins the edges by touching them with petroleum, and afterwards pressing them firmly together. 7. Disinfection. Vei.peau.—New Mode of Disinfection, and of Dressing Wounds. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 158. A note from Dcmeaux et Corne on the disinfecting and deodorizing properties of a mixture of coal-tar and plaster of Paris, presented to the Acad<§mie des Sciences by Velpeau. AMPUTATION. Heyfeldeu, J. F.—On Double Amputations, informed simultaneously or immediately following each other. Deutsche Klinik, No. 39. Canst., vol. v, p. 210. The author relates several cases in which double amputation was unfortunately necessary. In such cases the severity of the injuries sus- tained is so great, that they would probably terminate fatally without operation.AlirtlTATION. 271 " Scarcely any cases," says Heyfelder, " can be produced in which patients have been saved, both of whose thighs have been amputated, coup sur coup, for gunshot injuries of both legs or both knee-joints.-" On this account, Boyer, Velpeau, and Vidal declare that the amputation of both hands or both feet is at the most permissible. If it has been shown that the prognosis of double amputations of the lower extremities for injuries, whether of the thigh or leg, is exceedingly unfavorable, Heyfelder thinks that the case assumes a different form when the double amputation is necessitated by an organic disease, instead of by an injury, and when an interval of five or six days elapses between the time of the first and the second operation. Thus, he twice performed suc- cessfully double amputation of both legs for frostbite, with an interval of five clays. He does not lay down definite rules for double amputations, when they should be performed, simultaneously or at intervals. But he objects to the proceeding instanced by Fergusson, in which, at the same moment, both limbs are removed by two surgeons. One operator would be in the way of the other, and the measure is only justifiable during and after great battles. Heyfelder now holds a similar opinion regarding all, in some measure, important operations. In squint and in cataract it is better not to operate at once on both eyes ; the same obtains in hydrocele, and the extirpation of several cystic tumours of the hairy scalp. In resection of the entire lower jaw, he advises that the removal of the second half should not be undertaken till the sublingual tissues on the first operated side have acquired new attachments. This is in order to prevent retraction of the tongue. In an article on the after-treatment of operation- wounds Heyfelder insists on the necessity of a spare diet, especially during the first five or six days, until the wound has either closed or is everywhere suppurating, when the inflammatory tension is replaced by relaxation, aud the spare diet may be changed for one more nourishing. He considers that the French and the southern races are naturally more moderate in their diet than the Germans, English, Dutch, and Russians, and that daily experience shows that erysipelas is often the consequence of an error in diet. This cause is also productive of pyaemia in patients who have been operated on at home, and who have not been exposed to hospital influences. The first dressing of a wound ought to be left on as long as possible, and this is only practicable when it is very simple and unproductive of irritation. Sutures are preferable to strips of plaster. Ligatures should be cut off short. The custom of leaving one end and fixing it in the lower angle of the wound is neither necessary nor useful, but altogether injurious and wholly unjustifiable. After putting in the stitches, the wound should only be covered with a fenestrated piece of linen, soaked in oil, and spread with a simple wax cerate to prevent its sticking to the wound. He deprecates stuffing or covering the wound with charpie. Symonds, F.—Observations on Certain Points connected with the Dress- ing of Stumps after Amputation. Med. Times and Gaz., Septembers, p. 230. Symonds prefers the wire to the thread suture, and the twisted to the knotted. He covers the wound with a single layer of wet lint, and dis- cards bandages, unless oedema or some other complication renders themB72 REPORT ON SURGERY. necessary. Where desirable to support the edges of the wound with plnster, the part of the strips in contact with the wound should not be more than half an inch broad. This leaves the intervals of the wound open to inspection, ensures the smallest possible contact between the wound and plaster, and leaves a free vent for discharge. Amputations.—Statistical Reports on the Principal Operations performed during the Year 1859. Med. Times and Gaz., April 28, p. 420, May 5, p. 446. These embody particulars of seventy-four amputations of the thigh, fifty-two of the leg, fifteen of one foot, two of both feet, and forty-three of the upper extremity. Messer, J. C.—Report on the Loss of Limbs, as affectiny Longevity among the Pensioners at the Royal Hospital, Greenwich. Edin. Med. Jour., October, p. 329. The author concludes that those who have lost limbs do not attain bo great an age as those who have not. Berend, II. W.—On Necrosis in Amputation Stumps. Med. Centr. Ztg., xxviii, 8, 1859. Ib. Rosenkranz.—Four Double Amputations, with some Remarks on Amputa- tion in General. Deutsche Klin., 11, 13. Schmidt, No. 10, vol. 108, p. 69. Ward.—Amputation at the Hip-joint in a Youny Child. Med. Times and Gaz., July 14, p. 34. The child was fifteen months old; its thigh had been crushed by the wheel of a dray. Hancock.—Disarticulation of the Hip-joint for Extensive Disease in the Stump, after Two previous Amputations in the Thigh; Fatal Result. Lancet, March 31, p. 319. The patient was sinking in consequence of excessive discharge from several sinuses, supposed to be connected with carious bone. Death took place on the morning following the disarticulation. Mr. Barwcll, to whom the portion of the femur was intrusted for examination, reported that the disease consisted in an exuberant outgrowth of bony tissue from the medullary canal and walls. The medullary membrane was congested, and in parts the medulla was suppurating. Ashdown.—Primary Amputation of both Feet (Pirogoff's and Cho- fart's). Recovery, with Good Slumps. (Reported, with Practical Remarks by Gray.) Med. Times and Gaz., July 7, p. 9. MASH.—Piroyofs Amputation of the Foot for Gunshot Injury; Re- covery, with an excellent Stump. Med. Times and Gaz., July 7, p. 9. Thompson, II.— Caries of the Tarsus ; Symes's Amputation ; Recurrence of Caries in the Tibia; Second Amputation; Examination of the removed Stump. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 159, August 18.BLOOD-VESSELS. 273 blood-vessels, (a) arteries, i . Wounds. Skey.—Puncture of the Ascending Aorta by a Needle ; Death; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., January 14, p, 34. A healthy young woman received a pusli on the chest in a scuffle. She walked into the surgery at St. Bartholomew's Hospital about fifteen minutes afterwards, complaining of fulness in the tliroat and pain in the right shoulder. Her pulse was 120. On the right side of the sternum, between the cartilages of the second and third ribs, the skin was pro- jected about J/' by a foreign body, which proved, on extraction, to be part of a needle, i|" long. She sank, and died about one hour after her admission. Two small punctures were found in the pericardium, which was distended with blood, and there were several punctures through the coats of the aorta, about one half above its valves. Lloyd.—Wound of the Carotid in a Child; Obliteration of the Trunk; Death from Abscess in the Brain. Med. Times and Gaz., Sep- tember 8, p. 239. A little boy, set. 4, April 14th, fell on the point of a stick which he had in his hand. He was taken into St. Bartholomew's Hospital in a state of syncope, from profuse bleeding from a wound, of the size of a large pea, in the right side of the neck, situated one inch below and in front of the angle of the jaws. April 16th, — Haemorrhage to the extent of an ounce, of a dark, venous colour, and in a continuous stream, easily stopped by a compress. 21st,—Restless. Wound discharging healthy pus. 22d,— Haemorrhage of the same character and of same extent as on 16th. 29th,— Haemorrhage at mid-day. In the night a fit, and hemiplegia. May 9th,— Death. The wound had passed between the external carotid artery and internal jugular vein, and ended in a lymphatic gland lying upon the muscl. rect. capitis ant. maj. The internal carotid, implicated in the back of the wound, was quite impervious. The right cerebral hemisphere was softened, and contained three abscesses. Le Gros Clark. — Deligation of the Common Carotid Artery for Wound of the External Carotid; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., February 25, p. 190. Stanley.—Ligature of the Carotid for Hcemorrhage from the Tonsil; Recovery. Subsequent softening of the Brain; Death; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., January 28, p. 88. Stewart, Dr.—si Case of Phlebitis of the Femoral Vein, and Rupture of the Internal and Middle Coats of the Femoral Artery, resulting from a Blow ivith a Stick on the Groin whilst the Ley was extended. Lancet, July 21, p. 62. Hilton.—Case of Severe Gunshot Injury to the Femoral Vessels. Med. Times and Gaz., March 3, p. 216. The upper part of the thigh was struck by a charge of small shot, which divided the superficial femoral artery. The patient died of tetanus. 18REPORT ON SURGERY. •274 Craven, R. M.—Traumatic Aneurism of the Radial Artery, successfully treated by Compression and Flexion, and afterwards by Extension. Brit. Med. Jour., Nov. 3, p. 8^9. The treatment lasted fourteen weeks. 2. Aneurisms. Aneurism.—-Report on the Treatment of External Aneurism. Med. Times nnd Gnz., January. Pembukton, Oliver.— On the Treatment of Aneurism from Anastomosis by Excision. Lancet, May 26, p. 576. Syme.— On the Treatment of Axillary Aneurism. Lancet, May 5, p. 444, and Med. Times and Gaz., May 5, p. 437, and Med.-Chir. Tr. A paper read before the Medical and Chirurgical Society, in which the author advocated the treatment of axillary aneurism, in particular, by de- ligation of the affected artery, immediately above and below the sac, which should be afterwards opened and emptied. This he considered preferable to the Hunterian operation, and thought it might perhaps be extended with advantage to the treatment of other aneurisms. His arguments were mainly drawn from a case of false axillary aneurism, following com- plete laceration of the vessel, where he adopted this plan with success. Paget.—Ligature of the Subclavian Artery for Axillary Aneurism. Med. Times and Gaz., July 14, p. 34. Skey.—False Axillary Aneurism, after Fracture and Dislocation of the Humerus. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 14, p. 34. In this case Skey exposed and tied the axillary artery ahove and below the seat of injury. The dissection was difficult, in consequence of the consolidation of the tissues, and much blood was lost. Death ensued thirty hours after the operation. The axillary artery, where it is sur- rounded by the brachial plexus, and the radial nerve, were torn across. Skey thought that these injuries had probably been inflicted by a sharp fragment of the humerus, which had been obliquely fractured. The capsule of the shoulder-joint had been lacerated. Lawrence.—Femoral Aneurism; Trial of Compression ; Ligature of the Femoral Artery; Phagedena of the Wound, and. Suppuration of the Sac; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., March 31, p. 316. Quain, Mr.—Aneurism of the Left Femoral Artery, treated by Com- pression ; Consolidation of the Tumour within fifteen weeks. Lancet, Oct. 13, p. 358. t The aneurismal tumour, as large as a pigeon's egg, was situated about four fingers' breadth below the groin, in the middle line. The cure was retarded by the occurrence of slough, from the pressure caused by the pads of the instruments. Colles, W.—Case of Popliteal Aneurism; Compression; Great in- crease of the Tumour; Flexion of Limb ; Cure. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June 15, p. 177. The patient, only twenty-one years old, was intemperate, and had had syphilis. The tumour, of the size of a goose's egg, was of six weeks'BLOOD-VESSELS. 275 duration. Pressure at Poupart's ligament was, on two occasions, main- tained for ten days, when suppuration of the sac threatened. Extreme flexion of the leg on the thigh was then employed successfully. Smith, H.—A Case of Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery ; Trial of Com- pression ; Ligature of the Superficial Femoral Artery; Subsequent Suppuration and Bursting of the Aneurismal Sac; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., June 30, p. 644. Poland.—Rupture of the Popliteal Artery; Ligature at the Injured Spot; Gangrene; Amputation; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., February 18, p. 163. On Rupture of the Popliteal Artery and Popliteal Aneurism. Guy's Hosp. Reports, p. 281. 3. Embolia of Arteries. Nelaton.—New Case of Spontaneous Gangrene, showing the Existence of Emboli. Journal de Medecine et de Chirurgie Pratique. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 164. December 9th.—Amiddle-aged female, a domestic servant, felt indisposed; she had a dry cough, and shortness of breath on going up stairs. 14th.— In the evening she was suddenly seized with excruciating pain in the cardiac region, extreme dyspnoea, and apprehension of death. Nelaton diagnosed endocarditis, and ordered fifteen leeches to be put over the heart. There was great relief and improvement on the following morning, when her chest was examined by Dr. Bean, who found nothing wrong with the heart or lungs, and thought she had probably had a fit of asthma. At five o'clock p.m. she was taken with sharp pain, cramp in the right leg. Next day this limb was cold, blanched, and insensible ; the arteries of the foot, leg, and thigh, did not pulsate, and no pulsation could be felt above the groin. Dry gangrene ensued, the intolerable pain was not relieved by opium, and, as the patient's health was failing, Nelaton ampu- tated at the place of election. Notwithstanding this, the pain continued, and death took place eight days afterwards. Sect, cadav.—An ossification connected with the mitral valve. In the auricle, a red clot, with small, depressed, white spots on it, slightly- adhering to the inner surface of the auricular appendix. It contained in its centre a white, puriform fluid, which was softened fibrine. The right common and the external iliac artery were plugged with a soft, brownish clot. Charcot.—Intermittent Limping in a Case of Complete Obliteration of the Art. Iliaca Communis. Gaz. de Par., xix, 1859. Schmidt, No. 7, p. 71, vol. 107. (b) veins. Langenbeck.—Contributions to the Surgical Pathology of Veins. Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. i, part 1, p. 1. Giedwood.—On Three Cases of Phlebitis occurring in Patients affected with the Syphilitic Poison, Lancet, June 23, p. 619.276 REPORT ()N SURGERY. (c) HEMOSTATICS. Taylor.—On Acupressure, Med. Times and Gazette, March 24, p. ,301. The employment of acupressure in aneurism and secondary haemorrhage is suggested by the author, who relates an experiment be made on a sheep, in which he passed a bodkin beneath the carotid artery, inserted a harelip-pin in the eye of the bodkin, and then, bending the (jin down across the artery, tied it and the bodkin together. After forty-eight hours he removed this " acuprcssor," and next day, when the animal was killed, he found the artery firmly plugged with clot. Dix.—On the Advantages of Acupressure over the Liyalure. Med. Times and Gaz., June 2, p. 546. Vbrneuil, Dr. A.—On the Difficulties met with in Tying the Arteries of the Leg after Amputation just below the Knee, and on Delegation of the Popliteal Artery as a Substitute. Archiv. Gen., Aout, jS59. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 78, vol. 106. Roux, J.—On the Proper Place for Delegation in Wounds of Arteries. Gaz. Hebdom., vi, 14, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, p. 328, vol. 106. Simpson, J. Y.— On the Arrestment of Surgical llcemorrhage by Acu- pressure. A Letter to Dr. Cathcart Lees. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Jan. 2, p. 7. Simpson, J. Y.—Acupressure; a New Method of Arresting Surgical Haemorrhage. Edin. Med. Jour., Jan., p. 645. Simpson, J. Y.—On Acupressure in Amputations. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 11, p. 137. Simpson recommends the compression of bleeding vessels, on the face of the stump, hy long needles, which are to be passed through the thick- ness of the flaps, across the vessels, in such a manner as to embrace a small portion of tissue on either side of them. He says the needles may be withdrawn on the second day. Edwards, A. M.—A Sketch of the History of the Surgical Means for Arresting Bleeding from Arteries. Brit. Med. Jour.. March 31. TUMOURS. 1. General Pathology, $rc. Billroth.—The Classif cation, Diagnosis, and Prognosis of Tumours, from a Surgical-clinical Point of View, co7icisely written for Practical Surgeons. Deutsche Kliiiik, No. 10—43, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 294. WEBER, Otto.—Surgical Experiences and Investigations, $-c. pp. 280. Canst., vol. iv, p. 301. An analytical review of 740 cases of tumours. Birkf.tt, J.—Contributions to the Practical Surgery of New-growths or Tumours. Series III, Cysts (continued). Guy's Hosp. Reports, p. 45a.TUMOURS. 277 2. Non-malignant Tumours. Particulars of twenty-four cases are reported in Med. Times and Gaz., May 19, p. 497» i860. ' HYDATIDS.—Tabular Report of Thirty-three Cases of Hydatid Tumours. Med. Times and Gaz., April 7, p. 343. Ckitchett.—Large Tumour of the Thigh; Operation; Evacuation of Hydatids. Med. Times and Gaz., April 7, p. 343. Quain.—Case of Hydatid Cyst in the Pelvis; Puncture of the Rectum; Suppuration of the Sac ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., May 19, P- 495- C0CK.—Large Cystic Tumour in the Ischio-rectal Fossa. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 29, p. 637. This cyst, of twenty years' growth, formed a large tumour on the left side of the anus and buttock, and reached into the pelvis for several inches by the side of the rectum. It contained a large quantity of fetid, dirty, brown fluid, and did not communicate with the bowel. Paget.—Ganglion beneath the Annular Ligament; Free Incision; Re- covery. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8, p. 558. The ganglion, which projected on either side of the annular ligament, and had been previously tapped aud injected with iodine, was laid freely open, after which the hand was bound to a flexible tin splint. Little suppuration took place, and the wound quickly granulated. Balassa.—On Extra-thyroideal Cystic Tumours in the Neck. Wien Med. Wochnschr., 46,47, 18^9. Schmidt, No. 8, p. 232, vol. 107. Mucous cysts in the thyro-hyoid region originate in one of the three mucous hursse in the neighbourhood of the hyoid bone, of which, accord- ing to Gurlt, the infra-hyoideal is most commonly affected. Three cases of this kind are reported, as well as one of congenital cystic hygroma in the axillary region of a six-months-old child. Cadge.—Cases of Myeloid Disease. Lancet, July 21, p. 59. Beschl.—On Skin-horns. Oesterr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vol. iv, 1859. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 26, vol. 106. With Virchow, Heschl distinguishes three kinds of skin-horns—ist, the rarest have in their centre an elongated, dermal papilla, and are therefore colossal warts ; 2d, the commonest, especially on the hairy scalp, have their origin in ruptured cystic tumours; 3d, a circumscribed, excessive ichthyosis. lie relates a very remarkable case of the last kind, where a Jewish girl, set. ij, had sixteen horns; most of them were on her right leg, and they varied from the size of a common wart to two seconds in diameter and six seconds in length. Hilton.—Large Fibroblastic Tumour over the Spermatic Cord; Removal. Med. Times aud Gaz., Nov. 10, p. 453. The tumour, but loosely connected to the cord, was about the size of a large Spanish onion, and had existed as long as the patient, set. 26, could recollect.KEPOItT ON SURGERY. 278 Flower.— Very large Fibro-cellular Tumour of the Scalp, of thirty year* growth, in a Female; Successful Removal. Lancet, October 29, p. 409. The tumour sprang from the pericranium, and weighed three pounds one and a half ounce. Its base measured eighteen and a half inches round, and covered the right parietal bone, the squamous portion of the temporal, and part of the occipital bone. Its removal was attended with free haemorrhage. WarD.<—A Congenital Tumour of the Scalp; Excision; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., May 19, 496. Mooke, \V. D.— On Fibrous Polypus at the Base of the Skull, extirpated by Resection of the Upper Jmu, in the Surgical Department of Frederick's Hospital. (Translated from the Hospitals-Tiedende, Copenhagen, 19 Oct., 1859.) Dub. Hosp. Gaz., No. 1, p. 324. Hilton.—Case of Fibrous Tumours of the Lobule of the Ear. Lancet, March 24, p. 294. Prick, P. C.—Scrofulous Diseases of the External Lymphatic Glands; their Nature, Variety, and Treatment. Brit. Med. Jour., July 21, p. 558, to Dec. 1, p. 937. De Lakne.—Curious Case of Inflamed Lymphatic Gland, simulating a Strangulated Hernia. Jour, de M6d. de Bord. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 225. Billroth.— Observations on Tumours of the Salivary Glands. Archiv fur Patholog. Auat. u. Physiolog., vol. xvii. Canst., vol. iv, p. 305. An account of the microscopic anatomy of these tumours, and of their surgery. Erichsen.—The Diagnosis of Tumours of the Breast. (Clinical Lecture.) Brit. Med. Jour., March 31, p. 239. BlRKETT.—Recurrence of an Adenocele, or Mammary Glandular Tumour, after Three successive Removals. Lancet, July 28, p. 81. Adams, John.—Mammary Glandular and Sero-cystic Tumour. Lancet, July 28, p. 81. Fergusson.—Case of Mammary Glandular Tumour, with preponderance of Fibrous Tissue, commencing at fourteen years of age. Lancet, July 28, p. 82. LoTZBECK.—General Hypertrophy of the Mammary Gland, with an un- usual abundance of Fatty Matter in the Secretion. Wien Med. Wochnschr., No. io, 1859. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 51, vol. 106. The breast weighed sixteen and a half pounds. Fleming, Dr.—Case of Sero-cystic Disease of the Female Breast. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Sept. 1, p. 258. Fleming had removed a similar tumour from the same lady seven years before. Tumours of Breast.—Report of Twenty-seven Cases of Removal of the Breast for Tumours of various kinds. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12, P- 473-BONES. 279 3. Malignant Tumours. Fergusson.—Excision of a Scirrhous Breast in a Woman at. 70; Recoveri/. Med. Times and Gaz., May 19, p. 495. Lotzbeck.—Five Cases of Cancer of the Thyroid Gland. Deutsche Klinik, Nov. 8, 1859. Canst, vol. iv, p. 332. Bibkett.—Excision of a Melanotic Tumour from the Thigh. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10, p. 453. Malignant Tumours.—Particulars of Twenty-four Cases Reported in the Lancet, No. 14, p. 498. Buez, A.—On Cancer and its Curability. Paris, J. B. Bailliere, i860. Treats of the pathological anatomy and the surgical treatment of carcinoma. Arnott, Dr. James.—On the Curability of Cancer. Lancet, p. 14. Hunt, Thos.—Palliative Treatment of Cancer. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 21st, p. 47. Treats of cases of true scirrhus of the breast, in which there is a hard, moveable tumour, not yet advanced to the stage of ulceration. The pres- sure of a tight corset is to be avoided, and the breast is to be shielded by a cushion of cotton-wool. Pain should be relieved by a belladonna plaster. Eeichsen.— On Epithelioma. Brit. Med. Jour., March 17, p. 201. A clinical lecture, describing this disease and the differences between it and true cancer. Early and free extirpation is recommended. Hutchtnson, J.—A Clinical Report on Epithelial Cancer. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 6, p. 335; 13th, p. 355; 20th, p. 378; 27th, p. 405; Nov. 3d, p. 431; 24th, p. 503; Dec. 1st, p. 531; 8th, P- .557- This is an analysis of 115 cases of epithelioma, affecting different parts of the body, which have been recorded in this journal since July, 1853. KODENT TJLCEK. Hutchinson, J.—A Clinical Report on Rodent Ulcer. Med. Times and Gaz., August 18th, p. 156; 25th, p. 182; Sept. 15th, p. 260; 29th, p. 304. From au analysis of forty-two cases of this disease, Hutchinson shows its distinctness from lupus and epithelioma. The only treatment it admits of is local—removal by escharotics or by excision. BONES. I.—Diseases. 1. Tumours. Nelaton, E.— On a Neio Kind of Benign Tumours of Bone, or " Tumeurs d Myd/oplaxes." Paris, Adrian Delahaye, i860. These tumours are characterised by the presence of large, irregular, cell-like, polynucleated bodies, termed by Ch. Robin " mveloplnxes." Judging from the illustrations, these tumours seem to be identical with those called myeloid in this country.280 EBPOUT on suiigery. Poland.—Fnchondroma of the Fibula and Tibia. Lnncel, July 28, p. 92. II.—Fractures and Luxations. 1. Manuals, Treatises, Lectures, and Reports. Ono Webeii.—Surgical Experiences and Investigations. Berlin, 1859. Canst., p. 160, vol. iv. The second part of this work contains some practical remarks on frac- tures, together with an analysis of 7,3.3 cases. In Weber's practice the plaster-of-Paris bandage has, since 1853, displaced almost all other modes of treatment. Pitua.— On the Treatment of Fractures. Wiener Spitalszeitung, 2 U. .31 literar. Beilage zum arztl. Intelligenzblatt, 1859. Canst., p. 16 •, vol. iv. Rejecting cold-water dressings as useless, or even injurious, in fractures, Pitha, as a rule, at once applies a permanent retentive apparatus. He generally employs Laugier's pasted-paper bandage (splint), which dries after a few lioui-s. Wagner, A.— On the Treatment of Fractures which have united with Deformity by Forcible Bending. Konigsberg, Medicin Jahrb., vol. i part .3, 1859. Hein, It.— On the Regeneration of Broken and Resected Bones. With three plates. Virchow's Archiv f. Patholog. Anat. u. Physiol., &c, vol. xv, parts 1 and 2. Canst., p. 163, vol. iv. Forty-eight resections and twenty fractures, experimentally made in animals, constitute the basis of this paper. PtABL, Dr. J.— On the Treatment of Fractures. Wien Ztschr., N. F. ii, 20, 1859. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 74, vol. 106. Gurlt.—Manual on Fractures of Bones. Frankfurt, i860. Meidinger, Sohn u. Co. This is a large and comprehensive work, to be completed in four parts, each consisting of from fifteen to eighteen sheets. Gosselin.— On Irredvcibility and Consecutive Deformity in Fractures of Long Bones. Gaz. Hebdom., v, 9 and 11, 1859. Schmidt, No. 10, p. 56, vol. 108. Even where there is no displacement, Gosselin says that deformity may, nevertheless, happen from an hypertrophy of the broken bone, which is sometimes the cause of chronic pain. Muscular atrophy is another second cause of consecutive deformity ; the muscles of the lower extremity are more liable to it than those of the upper, and the wasting lasts a long time, or never wholly disappears. He attributes it, in the first instance, mainly to the immobility in which the limb is kept during the consolida- tion of the broken bones", and explains its continuance by the supposition that the blood-current, which at first flows more strongly to the broken bone for its repair than to the musrles, remains subsequently diverted. The irreducibility of various forms of displacement is lastly treated ot.BONES. 281 2. Infraction. Betz.—Memorabilien, v, 5, i860. Schmidt, No. 10, p. 61, vol. 108. Blasius.—Deutsche Klin., 18. Ib., p. 62. Senator.—Med. Centr. Ztg., xxviii, 71, 18.59. Ib- Cases of infraction of the femur, tibia, ribs, vertebrae, and sternum. 3. False Joints, $-c. Jordan, Jos.—The Treatment of False Joints by Periosteal Autoplastic Operation. Bailliere, Paris, 1S60. Jobert DE Lamballe.—Complicated Fracture of the Leg ; False Joint; Cure by a Hair Seton, without Irritation of the Ends of the Bones. L'Union, 48. Schmidt, No. 12, p. 343, vol. 108. Here the periosteum only, and not the bone, was supposed to have been excited by the seton. Ollier.—Sub-periosteal Resections. Gaz. Hebdom., Nos. 33, 37, 43, 45, 50, and 53, 1858. Canst., vol. v, p. 21^. Sub-periosteal resection presents this feature, that it not merely pre- serves the patient's limb, but attempts the reproduction of the bone. With particular reference to this point, Oilier has analysed thirteen opera- tions of this kind performed by Larghi ; in two of the most remarkable of these, considerable portions of the humerus were reproduced. Langenbeck.—Contributions to Osteoplasty : a preliminary communica- tion. Deutsche Klinik, No. 48. Canst., vol. v, p. 235. The author shows that it is possible to get reunion of a bone which has been completely separated from its bony connections, so long as the periosteum covering it remains connected with that of the parent-bone by a bridge. He illustrates the reproduction of bone by the periosteum, by some very remarkable cases where the knowledge of this fact was turned to practical account in operating. 4. Fractures of Bones of Face. (For Jaws and Skull, see "Head.") Pellarin.— Fracture of the Zygomatic Arch, with Dislocation of the Malar Bone. L'Union, 58. Schmidt, No. 10, p. 59, vol. 108. Salter, J as.— On a Case of Fracture of the Superior Maxilla, and its Treatment. Lancet, June 16th, p. 593. •;. Spine. TiiNGEL, Dr. — Caries of the Atlas and Axis ; Luxation of the Atlas, and Compression of the Spinal Marrow by the Odontoid Process. Virch.'s Archiv, xvi, p. 369, 1859. Schmidt, No. 7, p. 66, vol. 107. Bondesex.— Dislocation of the Cervical Vertebrce. Hosp. Tidende, 14, 18, 1859. Schmidt, No. 7, p. 66, vol. 107. Keig.—Luxation of the Lumbar Vertebrce; Fracture of several Ribs; Rupture of the Liver, Spleen, several Muscles, fyc. llygiea, Bd. xx, p. 116. Schmidt, No. 7, p. 60, vol. 107. Breithaupt.—Fracture of the Fifth and Sixth Cervical Vertebrce. Pr. Ver.-Ztg., N. P. 1, 50—52, 1858. Schmidt, No. 7, p. 65, vol. 107.282 REPORT ON SURGERY. 6. Chest. Mall.—Luxation of the Sternal End of the Collar-bone backwards. Allg. Wien.med. Ztg., 49,1859. Schmidt, No. 5, p. 200, vol. io<5. This was caused by a fall from a tree. The lad's face was cedematous and cyanotic, his neck was swollen, and the vena jug. inf. was very prominent. There was considerable dyspnoea, difficulty of swallowing, and pain in the supra-sternal notch, where a foreign body was felt. A loud whistling was heard in the trachea. The manubrium sterni was pro- minent, and a grooved depression occupied the situation of the left sterno- clavicular joint. The left shoulder stood lower, and more inwards than the right, and the distance from the acromion to the sternal articulation was less on the left side. The luxation was easily reduced by drawing the shoulder outwards, upwards, and backwards, whilst slight pressure was made on the upper part of the sternum. The patient felt immediate relief, and the cyanosis, dyspnoea, &c, soon disappeared. Canton.—Dislocation of the Sternal End of the Clavicle forwards, from Injury. Lancet, Sept. 15th, p. 265. A labourer, set. 46, was knocked down by a cab. He thought he fell on his right shoulder. The sternal end of the right clavicle was promi- nent, and about half an inch lower than on the opposite side. The trapezius of the same side was somewhat relaxed. The sterno-mastoid was very tense, with a deep fossa behind it; there was no rupture of its sternal portion. Right shoulder rather lower than the other. The distance from the centre of the sternum to the acromion about half an inch less than on the left side. The length of the clavicles the same on both sides. The head bent towards the right side. Movements of the arm but little affected. Reduction was effected by drawing the shoulder backwards, raising the arm considerably, and directing the clavicle to its normal position by pressure anteriorly. Turn mi.—Case of Death from Haemorrhage after Fracture of a Rib, without External Mark of Injury. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 2, p. 607. A gunner in the Horse Artillery was hit, whilst fencing, with a light cane on the eighth rib on the right side. There was no outward mark of injury, but he became collapsed, and died seventeen hours afterwards. The eighth rib was fractured, and a small twig of the intercosial artery entering the bone at this point was torn through. The trunks of the intercostal artery and vein were uninjured. The right pleural sac contained about five pints of blood. Tatum.—Fracture of the Ribs, Sternum, and Lower Jaw, with Bleeding and Serous Discharge from the Temporo-maxillary Articulation through the Ear, from a Fall. Lancet, Dec. 1, p. 536. Tatum.—Fracture of the Ribs and all the Lumbar Vertebrae ; Laceration of the Pleura, Theca Vertebralis, and Spleen. Ib., p. 537. Bryant.—Fracture of the Ribs and Emphysema, with Dislocation of the Acromial End of the Clavicle, from a Squeeze between two Railway Buffers; Recovery, lb. • In the first of these cases the serous discharge, which was considerable,283 BOXES. was determined after death to have flowed from the temporo-maxillary joint into the cartilaginous portion of the meatus, thus simulating the discharge of cerebro-spinal fluid. Bastian.—Fracture of the Second Rib in a Child; General Emphysema of the Entire Body, from Wound of the Lung and Pleura ; Fatal Result. Lancet, Dec. i, p. 538. Henry S—, set. 9, was admitted into University College Hospital, Sept. 2otb, 1860, at six o'clock p.m., the wheel of an omnibus having, ten minutes previously, passed over his chest. There was intense general emphysema of the whole body, from the scalp to below the knees. The face was dusky. The skin over the chest was tense, and no broken rib could be felt. There was urgent dyspnoea, marked pneumothorax on the right and slight on the left side, and a weak, r'apid pulse. The dyspnoea increasing, when the child had almost ceased to breathe, and the pulse could scarcely be felt, the house-surgeon (Bastian) thrust a small trocar into the right side of the chest, between the fifth and sixth ribs. Air rushed out for several seconds, and the symptoms were immediately relieved ; the child, however, sank, and died in a few minutes. A small splinter of the second rib had pierced the pleura and lung. 7. Upper Extremity. Ewen.—Case of Intra-uterine Fracture of the Clavicle. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12, p. 482. Skey.—Clinical Observations on some Complicated Injuries about the Shoulder-joint, and on Fracture of the Scapula. Lancet, April 14, p. 368. THADEN, Dr.— On Axillary Dislocations. H. u. Pf.'s Ztschr., 3 Reihe, v, p. 180—199, 1859. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 71, vol. 106. Thaden describes a case of dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, with the appearances displayed in dissection. The arm could be easily rotated outwards. The elbow stood away from the chest, and could not be made to touch it. The arm seemed to be somewhat lengthened ; the empty glenoid cavity could be felt below the projecting acromion ; the tip of the coracoid process was prominent, and an inch below it the head of the humerus was found; the position of the latter, with reference to the glenoid cavity, was downwards, forwards, and inwards. The dis- location was reduced, but the patient, a woman, aged 42, died on the third day, in consequence of other severe injuries. The soft parts around the joint showed extravasation, particularly in the armpit, and into the connective tissue between the vessels and nerves. The head of the humerus was in the articular cavity. The two upper facets of its greater tuberosity, forming a piece the size of half a walnut, were split off, and lay on the head, upon which they could be slid, and to which they were still attached by periosteum and capsule. The capsule was torn at its humeral insertion • the rent ran from a quarter of an inch below the lesser tuberosity back- wards to a quarter of an inch from the greater. Two smaller lacerations half an inch long, occurred, near together, in the neighbourhood of the greater tuberosity. The lower border of the muscl. subscap. was tornFourteen Weeks'' Duration. Pr. Ver.-Ztg. N. F. iii, 5. Ib. p. 325. ltKl'OUT ON 8UBGEUY. LoTTEREtt.— Case of Luxation of the Humerus, with Fracture of its Surgical Neck. Ztschr. f. Chir. u. Geburtsh., xii, p. z6t, 1859. Ib. SXEJOER, Dr. J. It.—On Luxations of the Shoulder-joint. Schw. lion. Schr., iv, p. 309, 18159. Ib., p. 326". According to the author, tliere is only a single primary dislocation of tbe bend of tbe humerus downwards. Secondary displacements may be caused by tbe continued nction of external forces, or by muscular con- traction, and these have been hitherto considered distinct forms. The signs of primary luxation are so clear, that even when complicated by swelling, fracture of tbe surgical neck of the humerus or scapula, they can scarcely, the author thinks, be overlooked. He practises Celsus' method for effecting reduction—upward extension of the arm, and counter-extension, by a towel carried over tbe shoulder. Middeldokpff.—The Upright Luxation of the Shoulder. Das., 3, 4, jj, u. 19, 1859. Schmidt, No. 5, p. 201, vol. 106. A report of two cases where the arm remained in a raised position above the head (subvarieties of luxatio humeri erecta). Solly.—Compound Fracture of the Scapula ; Recovery, lied. Times and Gaz., Oct. 13, p. 957. A boy, aged 16, was thrown on bis face from a cart, the wheel of which passed over his right shoulder from below upwards, making a wound through which the lower angle of the scapula projected, and breaking off a small piece of the bone. The protruding bone was replaced with difficulty, and it was necessary to enlarge the external wound. Sissons, H.—Dislocation of the Humerus into the Subscapular Fossa, lied. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8, p. 559. Cases of Luxations of the Upper Extremity, by J. Ressel, Rabaine, Micuon, J. Hoppe, Lottekek, Steiger, HucNiEit. Schmidt, No. 9, p. 323, vol. 107. Ressel.—B. Ver.-Ztg., N. F. iii, 9. Reports several cases of luxation of tbe thumb ; in three of luxatiou of the metacarpophalangeal joint, the first phalanx was twice dislocated towards the palmar aspect, and once towards the dorsal. In five cases of luxation of the last phalanx of the thumb, the displacement was back- wards. Ib. Rabaine.—Journ. de Bord., 2 ser., v, p. 93. Reports a case of dislocation forwards of the first phalanx of the thumb. Ib., p. 324. MlOHOK.—A Case of Old Luxation of the Head of the Radius forwards and inwards. Allg. Wien. lied. Ztg., 17. Ib. Hoppe. — The Reduction of a Dislocation of the Elbow-joint of285 BONES. Flower.— Compound Dislocation of the Elbow; the Radius and Ulna thrown directly outwards ; Reduction, tvith Good Use of the Joint. Lancet, Oct. 13th, p. 360. GoYEAUD.—On Displacement of the Lower End of the Ulna over the Triangular Cartilage. Grz. de Par., 42, 43, 44, 48, 49, 1859. Schmidt, No. 5, p. 203, vol. 106. Goyraud thinks this more common than any other luxation. It usually happens in young children, when, in falling, they are dragged by the hand to keep them up ; at this moment the person who has hold of the child's hand feels a snapping noise; the child gives a cry, and its arm drops; the forearm is slightly flexed j the hand pronated, and cannot be moved. A mechanical impediment opposes attempts to forcibly supinate the hand. An oedematous swelling appears on the back of the wrist. According to the author, this would appear to have been often mistaken for an injury of the elbow-joint. Lorinser.—Fracture at the Lower End of the Bones of the Fore-arm. Wien. Med. Wchnschr., 10. Schmidt, No. 10, p. 50, vol. 108. The author calls attention to the frequent fracture of the radius 6—9'" above its lower articular surface. Smith, K. W.—Clinical Observations on Disjunction of the Lower Epiphy- sis of the Radius. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. 15, p. 49. Coote, Holmes.—On Congenital Dislocations of the Hip. Lancet, Dec. 221I, p. 609. A prtcis of the morbid anatomy of this luxation, drawn from various authors. Bryant.—Reduction of a Dislocation at the Hip by Manipulation, after Pulleys had failed. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10th, p. 457. Bonnafont.—Cases of Luxation of the Coccyx. L'Union, 9, 1859. Schmidt, No. 2, p. 218, vol. 105. Demarquay.—Cases of Luxation of the Hip. L'Union, 29, 1859. Schmidt, No. 2, p. 215, vol. 105. Buez.—Luxation of the Thigh on the Pubis. Gaz. de Strasb., 6, 1859. Schmidt, No. 2, p. 217, vol. 105. Holthouse.—Lateral Dislocation of the Knee-joint, with the formation of a Foreign Body; synovitis; Recovery. Lancet, June i6th, P- 595- Phillipeaux, Dr. R.—On Complete Luxation of the Patella outwards. Journ. de Brux., xxvii; p. 26, June, 1859. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 73, vol. 106. For the reduction of dislocations of the patella, Phillipeaux recommends forced flexion of the leg, with subsequent extension. Bourglet.—Rupture of the Ligamentum Patella.—Gaz. des H6p., 15. Schmidt, No. 8, p. 207, vol. 107. Smith, It. W.—Case of Fracture of the Tibia ; Disjunction of its Inferior Epiphysis. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Oct. 1st, p. 289.286 REPORT ON SURGERY. Stanley.— Compound Dislocation of the Ankle-joint; Reduction; Tela- nus on the fifth day; Death; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 4th, p. 107. Hutchinson, J.—A Report on Dislocations of the Astragalus. Med. Times and Gnz., Dec. 8th, p. 581. Five cases of this injury are here related. Legouest, L.—Fractures of the Calcaneus. Arch. g<5n., j BeY., xvi, p. 148; A6ut. Schmidt, No. 12, p. 341, vol. 108. _ Legouest describes this fracture from three cases which had come under his notice during the past year. He says it is generally produced by a fall on the heel, and has been termed byMalgaigne "fracture par 6crase- ment." In all cases the transverse diameter of the foot is increased at the seat of fracture, whilst the depressed heel i3 lengthened backwards. Crepitation is often obscure or absent; this renders the diagnosis diffi- cult, especially when the displacement is slight. 8. Retentive Apparatus. Morel-Lavallee.—An Articulating Bandage, a New Method of prevent- ing Stiffness and Anchylosis in Fractures. Bull, de The>., lviii, p. 202, Mars. Schmidt, No. 8, p. 230, vol. 107. Stiffness is to be prevented by passive motion of the fractured limbs, and in order to facilitate this the opposed surfaces of the inner and outer dextrine bandages which Morel-Lavallee employs are lubricated with tallow or other fatty matter, opposite the joints. Durr.—A System of Gutta-percha Splitits, with Simplification of their Parts. Preuss. milit. arztl. Ztg., 11. Schmidt, No. 10, p. 68, vol. 108. Durr uses a mixture of five parts of gutta percha, two of hog's lard, and one and a half of white-pine resin, which softens and hardens more rapidly, and is less dear than crude or rolled gutta percha, does not shrink, and is made new again by re-melting. FLEMING, Ciir.—Remarks on the use of the Plaster of Paris or Gypsum Bandage, in the Treatment of Fractures, Dislocations, Sfc. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Sept. 15th, p. 273. An account of Gurlt's plan of using this bandage, with an historical sketch, by Gurlt, of the employment of plaster of Paris in the treatment of fractures. Schultz, Hermn.—The Wadding Bandage; from Personal Experience. Deutsche Klin., 6—9. Schmidt, No. 9, p. 321, vol. 107. The author has obtained the happiest results in cases of severe injury, from the use of wadding bandages, a plan which, according to his expe- rience, is superior to so-called antiphlogistic modes of treatment. Of forty-five complicated fractures put up in wadding, not one patient died, no limbs were lost; erysipelas, pyaemia, and gangrene, in spite of over- crowding of the hospital, never occurred. After removal of loose splinters and the adjustment of the broken bones, the injured limb287 BONES. is to be directly wrapped in a layer of wadding, one avid a half to two inches thick, and then pretty firmly bandaged. Over this splints are to be applied and the limb fixed in a comfortable position with cushions, &c. Bleeding unless from a large vessel, is no hindrance to the application of the wadding. The pain is said to abate, and no fever occurs, merely a moderate reaction. The apparatus requires changing about the fifth day. Amputations and resections may be treated in this manner. He reports several cases of fractures. III.—Diseases of Joints. Weber, W.—On the Changes of Cartilage in Diseases of the Joints. Virchow's Archiv, xiii, i, pp. 74—92> l858- Schmidt, No. 4, p. 66, vol. 106. Weber's observations refer especially to the intra-cellular origin of pus, and to the formation of vessels, the presence of which in inflamed cartilage is as undeniable as it is in the inflamed cornea. Barwele.—On the Pathology and Treatment of Scrofulous Diseases of the Synovial Membrane of Joints. Lancet, June 16th, 23, 30. Barwell considers that scrofulous synovitis is at first not essentially distinct from other inflammations of the synovial membrane, and that the difference lies in the inaptitude of the inflammatory products to undergo further development. In consequence of this they remain in the form of a spongy granulation-tissue, constituting the condition termed gelatinous degeneration. He recognises three stages : 1st. That in which the synovial and subsynovial tissues are alone involved. 2d. That in whicli the cartilage and bone become involved. 3d. That in which the new tissue either begins to consolidate into fibrous membrane, or to degenerate. He expresses an unfavorable opinion of issues and poultices, but speaks warmly of the advantages of the actual cautery and pressure. Chassaignac.—Intra-articidar Suppurations of the Knee-joint. Union M£d. de ia Gironde. Ann. par Jamaiu et Wahu, p. 176. This surgeon distinguishes two kinds—1. An acute suppuration, involving the whole joint, almost constantly fatal. 2. A chronic, and often circumscribed, suppuration, from which the patient may recover with or without anchylosis. " This favorable termination," he adds, " is quite exceptional." The use of drainage-tubes in both kinds of abscess is advocated, and numerous cases in which they were advantageously em- ployed are reported. Hein, Dr. Beinhold.— On Chronic Inflammation of Joints. Virchow's Archiv, xiii, 1, pp. 16—28, 1858. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 68, vol. 106. Hein describes some specimens of chronic inflammations of joints (chronic rheumatic arthritis). He found Haversian canals in thin slices from the eburnated surfaces of the bones, a fact opposed to Gurlt's state- ment that the polished portions contain none. Respecting the orisjin of "loose-cartilages," he found nothing to support Gurlt's views '(after Laennec, Gurlt maintained that in most instances they were formed by288 HEPOHT OX SURGERY. the ingrowth of osteophytes into the articular cnvity) ; but Rokilansky's opinion, that they have their origin in the development of cartilage in the club-like extremities of enlarged articular appendices, and its subsequent ossification, was apparently confirmed. Scjiuii, Dr. Fit.—On Arthroxerosis, and on the Injection of Iodine for the Hydrops Articuli dependent on it, Wieu Ztschr., N. F. iii, 5. Schmidt, No. 6, p. 314, vol. 106. Sohuh recommends iodine injections in cases of long-standing synovial disease, where there is much swelling and relaxation of the ligaments, and where pain, heat, &c, have subsided. In three cases he employed successfully a mixture of one part tincture of iodine to one to four of water ; two to three ounces of this were injected, part being allowed to run out after a few minutes. Hempel, Dr.— On the so-called Malum Senile in Joints. Ugeskrift for Laeger, vol. xxx, Nos. 7 and 8. Schmidt, No. 4, p. 69, vol. 106. The author enumerates three changes to which articular cartilage is subject—the fatty, the fibrous, and the ossific. He considers it more pro- bable that ossification is preceded by fibrillation, than that it is a simple senile transformation, as commonly taught. Schleiss.— On Symptomatic Pain in the Knee, in Chronic Inflammation of the Hip-joint. H. u. Pf.'s Ztschr., 3 Reihe, vii, p. 51, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, p. 313, vol. 106. Most of its subjects, says Schleiss, are of slender build or scrofulous. The ligameuts and muscles of such persons are more lax than of those ■whose bodies are robust, so that it may happen that, after long walking or standing, the contractility of the muscles of one thigh is impaired, and the limb, less firmly supported against the pelvis, hangs heavily from the capsular ligament, and stretches it. In consequence of this stretching, the femur drops, and presses more heavily on the unper articular surface of the tibia, and thus causes pain in the knee. Edwakds, A. M.—Remarks on Sayre's Splint for Morbus Coxarius. Edin. Monthly Jour., Dec. 1. The author describes and figures this splint, which he thinks will be found very efficient in the treatment of hip disease. Coote, Holmes.— On Disease of the Hip-joint. London Monthly Med. Rev., Sept., p. 116. Hamilton, J.—Removal of a Foreign Body from the Knee-joint. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June 1, p. 163. In this case two cartilaginous bodies were removed from the knee- joint through a valvular incision; a third eluded extraction. The sub- sequent inflammation was slight, and the patient left the hospital a month after the operation. Feugusson.—Loose Cartilage in the Knee-joint, producing repeated attacks of Synovitis; Direct Removal; Recovery, with a Stiff Joint. Lancet, Oct. 13th, p. 358. Bloom field.—Subcutaneous Ebulsion of a Loose Cartilage from the Knee-joint. Med. Times and Gaz., June 16th, p. 399.BONES. 289 IV.—Excisions op Joints. Excisions.—Statistical Report of the Principal Operations performed during the Tear 1859. Med. Times and Gnz., April 21, p. 395. This contains particulars of twenty-one cases of excision of the hip, knee, elbow, and wrist joints; of two resections of the astragalus after injury, and of one resection of the os calcis for caries. IIeyfeldeu, J. F.—Contributions to the Study of Resections. Deutsche Klinik, No. 29 and following. These comprise an interesting series of resections of the jaw, clavicle, scapula, shoulder-joint, external condyle of humerus, olecranon, elbow- joint, lower end of ulna, metacarpal bones, knee-joint, tibia, calcaneus, and metatarsal bones. Esmarch.—Description of a Resection-Splirit. A Contribution to Con- servative Military-Art. With five woodcuts. 4-to. 14. Kiel, Schwers., 1859. Canst, vol. v, p. 214. This ingenious contrivance consists of a foot-piece, and of three broad slings which support the leg, knee, and thigh. These are fixed separately to a horizontal bar, supported by an upright at either end, and can be removed separately without shifting the position of the limb. 1. Upper Extremity. Dr. King.—Excision of the Shoulder-joint; Death from Phthisis. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 116, Feb. 4. Cukling.—Excision of the Elboiv-joint in an Old Man ; Successful Result. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 8, p. 240. The patient was sixty-eight, and his disease caries. He left the hospital, the parts being soundly healed, ten weeks after the operation. In connection with this case two others are mentioned, in which Messrs. Statham and Erichsen operated at the ages of seventy and sixty-three. Erichsen.—Excision of the Wrist-joint and Carpus ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., April 14, p. 366. Ekichsen.—Excision of the Elboio-joint. Clinical Remarks. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 3, p. 435. Le Gros Clark.—Case of Excision of the Elbow-joint. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10, p. 447. Cadge.—Case of Ulceration of the Cartilages of the Elbow-joint ; Ex- cision ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 4, p. 109. Schillbach, Dr. Ludwig.— Contributions to Resections of Bones; 2d part, Resections of the Upper Extremities. Jena, Manke, 8vo, 240. Canst., vol. v, p. 214. Schillbach describes two cases of resection of the shoulder-joint, and comments on the various methods of performing the operation. He thinks that no great advantage is gained by preserving the long tendons of the biceps. He says that partial resections of the elbow-joint do not generally 19290 REPORT ON SURGERY. answers they occnsion violent nnd protracted inflammation of those por- tions of the joint which have been left; the most that can be expected is anchylosis, whilst they not infrequently risk the preservation of limb and lite. The memoir contains accounts of several resections of the elbow- joint nnd of the carpus and metacarpal joints. 2. Lower Extremity. FJ5BGTJ8SON.—Excision of the Hip-joint; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., April 7, p. 342. Folkah.—Excision of the Hip-joint. Lancet, Nov. 24, p. 511. The age of the patient, thirty years, makes this an interesting case. Price.—On the Treatment of Certain Diseased Conditions of the Hip- joint by Complete and Partial Excision of the Articulations. Lancet, April 28, p. 419. TTke.—Excision of the Head of the Femur for Disease of Six Months' Duration ; Fatal Result on the Twentieth Day. Lancet, May <;, P- 443- Ektciisen.—Disease of the Great Trochanter and Neck of the Femur ; Removal of the Dead Bone. Med. Times aud Gaz., p. 266, March Fergusson.—Disease of the Hip-joint in a Little Boy ; Profuse Dis- charge ; Resection ; Partial Dislocation and Absorption of the Head of the Bone ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 1, p. 210. Boavman.—Disease of the Hip joint in a Young Girl ; Profuse Dis- charge, Emaciation, and Hectic ; Resection ; Head of Bone found Necrosed and Loose ; Recovery. Ib. FoiiK, C.—Remarlcs upon, and Experiences of, Resection of the Hip-joint. Archiv fur Klin. Chir. Langeubeck, vol. i, part 1, p. 173. An account of the history of this operation, the indications for it, and modes of performing it; the after-treatment; with an analysis of ninety- cases. Erichsen.—Clinical Lecture on Excision of the Hip-joint. Brit. Med. Jour., May 12, p. 351. Erichsen recognises three forms of hip disease—(1) the arthritic, in which the soft structures are alone primarily affected, usually with acute inflam- mation ; (2) the femoral, in which the morbid action begins in the tipper epiphysis of the femur ; (3) the acetabular, disease originating in the pelvic bones. He gives their distinctive characters, describes the opera- tion appropriate to each, and discusses the results of excision of this joint with respect to the immediate mortality consequent on it and the utility of the limb. Billroth.—On Resection of the Head of the Femur. Deutsche Klinik. Canst., vol. v, p. 220. Twelve out of thirty-two rases of this operation which Billroth collected terminated fatally. Some of the patients who recovered walked capitally with a stick, others required crutches. From these facts, from the291 BONES. improvement in the treatment of coxitis and its sequelae which may be expected from time, and from the present uncertainty whether a patient walks better with an anchylosed or resected caput femoris, Billroth infers that resection in coxitis is not a very pressingly inviting operation. The case is otherwise in gunshot fractures of the neck and head of the femur, which, without operative interference, are almost always fatal. If this injury should be associated with much contusion of the soft parts, primary exarticulation of the caput femoris is the only operation of any use. Billroth recommends a long incision behind the trochanter major. Heyfelder.—Contributions to Statistics of Resections of the Hip-joint. Monatsbl. f. Med. Statistik, No. 12. Canst., vol. v, p. 215. Hensser, F.—A Review of Cases of Resection of the Knee and Hip Joints, Tibia, and Tarsus, performed by Professor F. Hensser at Hombrechticon (Canton Zurich). Beilage ziir. Deutsche Klinik, No. 10, Oct. 20. The review comprises a tabular statement of fifteen cases of resection of the knee, one of the hip, and seven of the lower tibial and tarsal articulations. Of the knee series, eight cases were perfectly cured, one underwent amputation and recovered, and six died. In the tenth and eleventh cases a second resection was resorted to, in consequence of non- union. Five years after the resection of the hip (where the head and neck and both trochanters of the femur were removed), the patient could walk eight to ten hours a day. Of the tarsal and tibial cases, four were cured, one died two years afterwards of phthisis, and in two amputation was subsequently performed, one of these terminating fatally. Heath, Chr.—A Case of Excision of Diseased and Anchylosed Knee, with Good Result. Lancet, July 7, p. 5. The disease was of six years' duration. Several sinuses led to bare bone, the patella being firmly fixed to the outer condyle of the femur, and the femur to the tibia. Heath removed the whole joint in a wedge. The boy, set. n\, made a good recovery. Curling.—Excision of the Knee-joint ; Amputation four months later ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 17, p. 479. Amputation was performed in consequence of the child's health failing. No bony union had occurred. There were open sinuses and extreme pain. A detailed account of the appearances of the parts after amputation is appended. Tapp.—Excision of the Knee-joint. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10, P- 457- A case of strumous disease, of one year's duration. The child, a girl, set. 9, made an excellent recovery. Quain, Mr.—Disease of the Knee-joint ; Arthritis; Amputation; Rapid Recovery from the Operation. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 22 p. 609. Soimr, Solly, Le Gros Clark, Stmon.— Six cases of Excision of the Knee-joint, performed in St. Thomas's Hospital, 1859, followed by Recovery in Five, Lancet, Aug. 4, p. 108. *292 HKPOTIT ON SUnUKKV. Gant.—Two Cases of Excision of the Knee-joint ; Recovery. Lancet, Aug. 4, p. 109. Fergusson.—Removal of Necrosed Bone, and subsequent Excision of the Knee-joint ; Good Result. Med. Times and Gaz., May 26, p. 523. Symonds.— Case of Excision of the Knee-joint. ; Favorable Progress for a time; Death; Autopsy; Fatty Liver. Med. Times and Gaz., June 2, p. 550. Curling and Critciiett.—Two Cases of Resection of the Knee-joint. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 8, p. 240. Quain.—Scrofulous Disease of the Knee-joint ; Excision ; Recovery. Brit. Med. Jour., March 31, p. 240. King, Dr.—Excision of the Knee-joint; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., April 14, p. 366. Cadge.—Case of Synovial Disease of the Knee-joint ; Resection ; Sub- sequent Amputation ; Death. Billroth.—On the Resection of the Knee-Joint. Deutsche Klinik, No. 33. Canst., vol. v, p. 221. From the recorded experience of others, and from the personal observa- tion of six cases, Billroth concludes that the success of this resection depends more on the after-treatment than happens with other resections. He enumerates the following principles:—1. The patella and all portions of the synovial membrane, where possible, should be removed. Leaving the patella makes the wound less direct-than is desirable; whilst its cartilaginous surface, with the fatty synovial folds around it, protracts the suppuration. 2. Transverse incisions over the joint should, if possible, be avoided ; even with a single, long, anterior incision, the gravitation of pus towards the ham is not to be apprehended. 3. Great care should be taken, in sawing off the articular extremities, to make the limb as straight as possible. 4. If the cut runs through the condyles of the femur and head of the tibia, firm union may be expected with tolerable certainty; but the occurrence of this is doubtful, when the entire condyles of the femur, and the tibia below the tuberosity, are sawn off. 5. After this opera- tion the limb must be directly placed, by means of apparatus, in the straight position in which it is intended to remain. 6. The main point is to maintain perfect fixation, and complete impose of the ends of the bones. The retentive bandages ought to be so applied that the whole region of the joint is open to inspection without their removal. In per- forming the operation, two lateral incisions appear to Billroth to be the best; the joint retains a certain fixity in front; the greater difficulty in execution is no hindrance. Hitherto, however, he has followed Langen- beck in making a single long cut close to one or other side of the patella. Erichsen.—Diseased Tarsus ; Excision of the Os Calcis ; Recovery, with a Good Foot. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 15, p. 583. Tarsus.—Excision of Tarsal Bones. Med. Times and Gaz. (Report), May t2, p. 472. Erichsen.— Excision of the Astragalus; Useful Foot. Med. Times and Gaz., March 3 1, p. 316.293 HEAD. UK AD. I. INJURIES AFFECTING THE BEAJN. Bauciiet.— Wounds of the Encephalon. Paris, i860. (Tract.) Fractures of the Skull.—A Report of Ninety-four Cases of Fractures of the Skull. Med. Times and Gaz., May 26th, June 2d, gib, 16th, 30th. Craven, R. M.; Lunn, W. J.; King, K.-Fire Cases of Injury to the Head. Brit. Med. Jour., April 14, p. 284. Holtiiouse, C.—Case of Extensive Fracture of the Skull, with large Effusion of Blood between the Dura Mater and Bone over the Bight Cerebral Hemisphere. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 7, p. 4. Erichsen.— Case of Injury to the Head by a Fall Down Stairs ; Apparent Recovery ; Supervention of Acute Symptoms six months afterwards ; Death; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., June 30th, p. 645. Luke.—Case of Recovery after Symptoms of Fracture of the Base of the Skull. Med. Times and Gaz., July 7, p. 5. Birkett.—A similar Case to the above. Med. Times and Gaz., July 7, P- 6. Adams. — Compound Comminuted Fracture of Skull; Trephining; Ery- sipelas; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 13th, p. 357- A boy, ret. 11, was kicked by a horse on the right side of his head. The skull was broken, and a large fragment was so firmly wedged beneath a sharp, projecting ledge of bone, that it could not be raised until the trephine had been twice applied. Wakley, Thomas.—Case of Extensive Fracture through the Base of the Skull, followed by Oozing of Serous Fluid from the Ear and Symptoms of Compression; Fatal Result. Lancet, May 19th, p. 492. Clarke, W. M.—Case of Severe Injury of the Head, causing Rupture of the Membrana Tympani and Copious Discharge of Serous Fluid from the Ear. Brit. Med. Jour., July 7th, p. 10. Ody, J.—Supposed Fracture at the Base of the Skull; Serous Exudation from the Ear ; Recovery. Brit. Med. Jour., July 14th, p. 543. Savory.—Fatal Encephalitis following a Slight Scalp Wound. Lancet, May 19th, p. 492. A bricklayer's labourer was struck on the vertex of the head by a brick, which made a wound one and a half inch long, cutting through the pericranium, and exposing, but not fracturing, the bone. The man was not stunned; he got up and walked to the hospital. On the eleventh day after the accident brain symptoms were ushered in with a severe rigor, and death took place on the seventeenth. The arachnoid sac, and subarachnoid spaces, and the meshes of the pia mater, on the right side, were filled with pus. Paget.—Scalp Wound; Supervention of Head Symptoms ; Trephining; Death from Abscess in the Brain. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8th, p. 558. A case of laceration of the scalp and temporal muscle, exposing theREPORT ON SURGERY. 291. bone, followed on the twenty-eighth day after the injury by rigors and brain symptoms. Gaffney.—Case of Compound Comminuted Fracture of the Skull, with Loss of Bruin-substance, treated successfully. Med. Times and Gnz., Aug. i8tb, p. 156. A boy, ret. 12, was knocked down, March 9th, by a plough, the share of which struck his head, making a scalp wound four inches long by two inches broad, and carrying away a portion of bone one and a half inch long by one inch broad. The wound was parallel to the coronal suture, into which it ran. The edges of the bone were beveled, and the superior longitudinal sinus was exposed. Several loose splinters, some imbedded in the brain-substance, were removed, and the wound was covered with a piece of wet lint. When seen by Gaffney, two hours after the accident, the boy had walked half a mile, was standing up, and answered any questions that were put to him. Bladders of ice were applied to the occiput, and a rigidly antiphlogistic treatment was observed. About the middle of April several sequestra were exfoliated, after which the wound healed quickly, with a firm cicatrix. Le Gros Clark.—Fatal Case of Compound Comminuted Fracture of the Skull, with Laceration of the Brain. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10th, p. 448. - PlTHA.—Extraordinary Case of Traumatic Inflammation of the Cranial Sinuses. Zeitschr. fur pract. Heilkunde, No. 1. Canst., p. 149, vol. iv. A case of sabre wounds of the skull, fatal in consequence of phlebitis and pyaemia. Otto Weber.—Surgical Experiences and Investigations. (Fractures of the Skull, and Trepanning, p. 147—161.) Canst., p. 149, vol. iv. Bryant.— Caries of the Skull; Epilepsy; Relieved by Trephining; Subsequent, Death. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 18th, p. 158. Bryant trephined the rough and inflammatory parietal bone of a cachectic man, ret. 38, who had, during ten months, suffered extreme pain in this part, and had recently had convulsions, chiefly affecting the right side of the body and left side of the face, with loss of use of the right leg and arm. After the operation the pain and fits ceased, and the para- lysis disappeared. Subsequently the fits recurred, and the patient died hemiplegic, with some symptoms of pyaemia. Bryant remarks that consciousness was never lost in these fits, whilst in genuine epilepsy the reverse takes place. 2. JAWS. (a) Tumours of Upper Jaw. Lawrence, W.— Case of Cystic Enlargement of the Antrum. Med. Times and Gaz., March 10, p. 235. t Nearly the whole front of the right upper jaw was occupied by a soft, elastic swelling, that readied from near the lower margin of the orbit to the alveolar process. A small quantity of white tenacious fluid was evacuated through an exploratory puncture beneath the cheek, in which situation a free opening was made with a scalpel a few days subsequently. After this, the swelling having become firmer, Lawrence turned back the295 HEAD. cheek by an incision from the angle of the mouth to the zygoma, and cut out a circular piece of the front of the antrum. The patient, a girl, set. 19, made a satisfactory recovery. Quain, Mr.—Case of Fibrous Tumour of the Left Superior Maxilla ; Bemoval; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., June 30, p. 645. It is said that free haemorrhage attended the removal of this tumour, ■which encroached on the ala of the nose, and reached nearly from the lower eyelid to the alveolar process. Fergesson.—Vascular Fibrous Polypus of the Antrum, extending into the Nose; Bemoval. Med. Times and Gaz., March 10, p. 235. Ferguson had previously attempted its removal by slitting up the nostril; but, from the great extent and the firmness of its attachments, and the profuse haemorrhage, had been unable to get away the whole polypus. Its complete extirpation was finally accomplished by removing the'front of the antrum, and freely exposing the tumour which grew from 1 the posterior wall of this cavity. Fearns.—Excision of the Upper Jaw. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12th, p. 471. In this case the whole left upper maxilla, palate-bone, and part of the malar bone, were removed, on account of an osteo-sarcomatous growth. The patient, a woman, set. 44, recovered rapidly. Skey.—Case of Sero-cystic Disease of the Superior and Inferior Maxillce. Med. Times and Gaz., June 2d, p. 550. On the left side of the face, a large, uniform swelling, of the size of a fist, reached from the angle of the jaw forwards to within about three quarters of an inch of the angle of the mouth. It seemed to he intimately connected with the upper and lower jaws, and distinctly fluctuated at its most prominent part, where it was punctured with a grooved needle, several drachms of viscid serum escaping. Fluid having agitin accumu- lated, Skey exposed the tumour by a cut through the cheek and masseter muscle, and removed a collection of bony cysts, containing serum, which implicated the outer walls of both maxillee. The patient, a woman, set. 41, recovered. Skey.—Malignant Disease of the Upper Jaw. Med. Times and Gaz., March 24th, p. 290. In this case Skey had already laid open the nose, and removed a large polypoid mass. Two months afterwards he excised the eyeball, and removed portions of a large, cancerous growth, which had destroyed the floor of the orbit and the neighbouring parts. Langenbeck, B.—Large Enchondroma on the Under Surface of the Hard Palate ; Detachment of the Tumour from the {Mucous) Membrane, Bone, and " Involucre " of the Hard Palate; Union by First Inten- tion. Deutsche Khuik, 1859. Canst., p. 323, vol. iv.2UG IIKI'OKT ON 8UEQEEY. (b) Gunshot Wound of Lower Jaw. SWEET.—On a Case of Gunshot Wound of the Face, causing the Destruc- tion of the Greater Part of the Lower Jaw; Recovery, with con- siderable powers of Mastication and Speech. Lancet, Nov. iotb, p. 458. A boy, set. 9, was struck by a charge of dust-shot, fired from a gun at the distance of four feet. The external parts were completely carried away from the left angle of the mouth down to the neck, including the chin, and extending to the antihelix of the right ear, and removing the right half of the upper lip; the teeth in the upper jaw and the alveoli on this side were absent; the masseter was laid bare; the lower jaw was shot away at the angle, leaving a long, jagged piece of bone, and showing the dental vessels and nerves hanging bare and torn; the facial artery was also torn, and the external carotid laid bare; the mylo- and genio-hyoid muscles were hanging loose on the neck, and the tongue was split laterally, the tip being gone, and presenting a trifid appearance. On the left side, about an inch of the ramus of the jaw and one tooth remained, and a jagged piece of the lower edge of the body. Sweet trimmed and brought together the lacerated parts, and afterwards, by drawing on the cicatrices with india-rubber bands, diminished the deformity. (c) Tumours of Loiver Jaw. Heyfeldeu, J. F.—On the Exarticulation of the Lower Jaw. Ballet, de l'Acad. de Med. de Belgique, ser. ii, torn, ii, No. r. Canst., vol. v, p. 215. In a communication to the Brussels Academy respecting exarticulation of the lower jaw, Heyfelder puts the following questions:—1. Is it advisable to perform the operation in such a way as to divide with the knife all the muscular insertions and soft parts attached to this bone, or to destroy these connections by a combination of pulling and wrenching ' 2. Can the temporal muscle always, and without difficult}', be separated from the coronoid process ; or must this apophysis be occasionally cut through with a Liston's forceps, and then removed with a Muzeaux's forceps and Cooper's scissors ? He says that the separation of the tendon of the temporal muscle from the coronoid apophysis is the only act which frequently pre- sents much difficulty. Both in living persons and in the dead sub- ject, he had often found this process unnaturally; long. Although he had, as a rule, generally succeeded in cutting the insertion of the tem- poral muscle with a bistoury or curved scissors, by depressing the chin as much as possible, yet, in two or three instances, he had been compelled to cut through the apophysis at its base (for this purpose he found Liston's forceps very appropriate) and afterwards dissect it out. The apophysis should never be left when the operation is performed for a morbid growth, because the disease may return in it; this had happened in his own prac- tice. He had also met with more than one case where the bone broke oflf whilst tearing it from the soft parts. The secondary haemorrhage which has been said to follow this tearing away, only occurs when a small artery has been cut, and its ligature has297 HEAD. been pulled off, which may happen if the patient chews or talks much during the first few days. In most of the published cases of total exarti- culation of the lower jaw, this was not done by a single operation, but an interval even of several months intervened between the removal of the first and second halves of the bone. The first opportunity of removing the entire bone at one sitting occurred to Heyfelder, in 1853 ; the second to Maisoneuve, in 1856 ; and the third to Heyfelder, in 1858. Hutton.—Case of Cystic Growth of the Lower Jaw, in which a large portion of the Bone was removed. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., June 1, p. 161. This tumour reached from the angle of the left half of the jaw to an inch beyond the right side of the symphysis, and projected into the fauces. Chloroform was not administered, as Hutton feared suffocation from haemorrhage. He cut through the jaw with a common dovetail saw, a chain saw having been broken in the attempt. Colles.'—Resection of the Right Lower Jaw, and Exarliculation under Chloroform, with Remarks on the Operation. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 15th, p. 241. This was a case of fibro-cystic disease of the right half of the lower jaw, which was enlarged to the size of a goose's egg. Colles cut through the body of the jaw near the symphysis with a narrow saw, that had a sliding, moveable back; he next divided the ramus with a forceps as high as pos- sible, after which the mass of the tumour was readily removed. He then wrenched out the remaining neck of the bone with a strong forceps, and severed its attachments with a blunt bistoury. The patient recovered, with a salivary fistula. Colles recommends the use of chloroform in operations of this kind, and the recumbent instead of the sitting posture. Annandale, T., Jun.—Case of Chronic Internal Abscess of the Lower Jaw. Ed. Med. Journ., Dec, p. 519. Paget.—Cystic Disease of the Lower Jaw. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 1st, p. 211. The disease in this case implicated the right half of the body and ascending ramus of the jaw. Portions of bony cysts had already, on two previous occasions, been removed by Mr. Paget. 111. tongue. Three Cases of Excision of the Tongue for Cancer are reported. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12, p. 472. Bruxs.—The Surgical Pathology and Treatment of the Organs of Masti- cation and Taste. Vol. i, the External Soft Parts. Tubingen, 18<o. Laupp, Canst., vol. v, p. 205. IV. TONSIL. Byant.—Calculus from the Tonsil, of the Size of a Small Nut, Spon- taneously Ejected. Lancet, Nov. 17, p. 487. The calculus was expelled whilst coughing ; it was hard and ragged and apparently consisted of phosphatic salts. 'tomy; Fatal Result in each Case. Lancet, April 21, p. 392. 2ys REPORT ON SURGERY. V. FAUCES. Turner, Wm,—Case of Extensive Adhesion of the Inferior Margin of the Soft Palate to the Posterior Wull of the Fauces, with a Description of the Parts seen on Dissection. Ediub. Med. Jour., January, p. 612. VI. OESOPHAGUS. Marshall.—Case of Cancerous Stricture of the (Esophagus ; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 496, May 19. air-passages. i. Laryngoscopy. Czermak.—"The Laryngoscope." Med. Times and Gaz., May 5, P- 453. A letter from the 'Med. Times' correspondent, describing Czermak's laryngoscope, and the mode of using it. It is a small, quadrilateral, metallic speculum, soldered to a thin, flexible stem, which admits of its being bent at any convenient angle. Having been warmed, in order to prevent the condensation of vapour upon its reflecting surface, it is to be intro- duced into the back of the mouth, and held in such a position that it illuminates the larynx, &c, and returns an image to the observer. Czermak substitutes a concave reflector and oil-lamp for solar illumination, which was employed by Liston, and after him by Garcia. Gerhardt, 0.—The Application of the Laryngoscope. Wiirtzb. Med. Ztschr., vol. i, p. 73. Merkel.—The more recent Contributions to Laryngoscopy and Phonetics. Schmidt, No. 10, pp. 81-103, vtu- io^- The author has collected all that has been recently written about the laryngoscope. His report embraces the history of the instrument, a description of its various forms, and the mode of using them, together with physiological observations, and numerous cases of laryngeal disease. 2. (Edema of the Glottis. Sloane, J.—On the Treatment of Scalds of the Glottis. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 14, p. 26. The author reports six cases of scalded glottis in little children, caused by drinking boiling water from the spout of a kettle. One, treated by tracheotomy, ended fatally; the others took calomel 1 gr. every hour, and tartar emetic gr. -^th to Jgth, in a saline mixture, every two hours, and recovered. Farre, Dr.—(Edema of the Glottis suddenly Supervening in the Hospital' in a Case of Jaundice from Obstruction of the Hepatic Duct. Lancet, April 21, p. 393. Pitman and Page, Drs.—Two Cases of (Edema of the Glottts; Tracheo-AIR-PASSAGES. 299 3. Wounds. JOHNSON, H. C.—Case of Wound Penetrating the Larynx in an Attempt at Suicide, with Detachment of a Piece of the Thyroid Cartilage ; Recovery. Lancet, Feb. u, p. 139. Curling.—Case of Wound of the Thyroid Cartilage, Wounding the Epiglottis, Inflicted by a Table-knife. Lancet, Feb. II, p. 140. Hawkins, Cesar.—Case of Wound of the Neck, and Injury to the Thyroid Cartilage, in an Attempt at Suicide ; Death from Frac- tured Ribs. Lancet, Feb. 11, p. 139. Cavasse.—Essay on Fractures of the Cartilages of the Larynx. (Thesis.) Paris, i860. 4. Tracheotomy, (a) In Croup. Bryant, Thos.—On the Surgical Diseases and Injuries of the Nose, Larynx, Thorax and its Contents, and of the Organs of Circulation. Guy's Hospital Reports, p. 1. Trousseau, A.—Tracheotomy. Ciinique Medicale de l'Hotel-Dieu de Paris, vol. i, p. 414. Paris, Bailliere, i860. In some clinical remarks on tracheotomy in diphtheria, Trousseau strongly insists on the necessity of operating slowly, dividing the tissues layer by layer, holding aside the vessels and muscles -with blunt hooks, and thoroughly exposing the trachea before opening it. He had never seen an accident caused by too great slowness, but had often witnessed the difficulties and dangers of a hasty tracheotomy, even when performed by a skilful operator. He uses the double canula, and places a piece of waxed silk or caoutchouc between its shield and the skin. Immediately after the operation, and for the first four days afterwards, the wound should be thoroughly pencilled with lunar caustic (this practice is par- ticularly insisted on), to prevent the diphtheritic infection of the wound, the formation of stinking, false membranes, erysipelas, and gangrene. Evans, Dr. C.—On Tracheotomy in Croup. Edin. Monthly Jour., January and May, and Proceedings of the Roy. Med. and Chir. Soc, vol. iii, No. ii, p. 108. The author notices the frequency and fatality of croup as a disease of early life, and points out the slight success which has hitherto attended the usual modes of treating it. He considers the principal objections which have been urged against tracheotomy, and strongly insists upon the> propriety of having recourse to it early in the disease. Spence, Jas.—Cases of Tracheotomy in Croup, tvith Clinical Remarks. Edin. Med. Jour., Feb., p. 693. (b) For Cancroid Growths. Budd, Dr.— Warty Growths in the Larynx, threatening Suffocation, in a Pregnant Woman ; Tracheotomy ; Death in Fourteen Hours ; In- effectual Labour in the interval ; Post-mortem Caxariotomy, Lancet April 21, p. 393.REPORT OX SURGERY. "Pyaemia. Lancet, Nov. 17, p. 487. i>UO AlusUSON, Dr.—Epithelial Cancer invading the Entire Mucous Mem- brane of the Larynx and part of the Pharynx, with Destruction of the Vocal Cords; Tracheotomy; Death, Six Weeks after, from Pneumonia. Lancet, Nov. 17, p. 48/;. (c) For Phthisis Larynyea. Russell.— Tracheotomy ; Portion of Thyroid Cartilage Separated by Necrosis ; The Tube worn Four Years. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 14, p. 32. Laurence.—History of Syphilis; Laryngitis ; Extreme Dyspnoea; Laryngotomy ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 316, March 31. Wilmot, Samuel. — Case of Syphilitic Laryngeal Disease; Tracheotomy ; Recovery. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April 16, p. 113. Farre, Dr.—Chronic Syphilitic Laryngitis ; Tracheotomy Twelve Months ago; Loss of the Uvula and Epiylotlis; Aphonia and Dysphagia; Relief by Treatment. Lancet, March 17, p. 272. Rees, Owen.—Case of Strumous Ulceration of the Larynx, with Destruc- tion of the Right Half of the Epiglottis, Thyroid and Cricoid Cartilages ; Tracheotomy; Death on the Eleventh Day. Lancet, March 17, p. 271. Gardner, Dr. F. W.—Case of Laryngeal Phthisis ; Tracheotomy. Edin. Med. Jour., Jan. Thin, G.—Case of Abscess of the Larynx. Edin. Monthly Jour., Dec, P- 537- (d) For Epilepsy. Williams, Wvnn.—Two Cases of Epilepsy, in which the Operation of Tracheotomy was performed. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 15, P- *53- (e) For Foreign Body. Tatum.—Impaction of a Flint-stone in the Larynx of a Child ; Suc- cessful Removal after Tracheotomy ; Death on the second day. Lancet, March 17, p. 272. Mendel.—De Bronchotomia, ex extrahenda corpora aliena. Diss, inaug., Berolini, 1859. Canst., p. 159, vol. iv. Contains an account of four cases where laryngotomy was performed for the removal of foreign bodies. In one a piece of nutshell could not be extracted, although the thyroid cartilage was split up along the middle line. This patient died of pneumonia four weeks afterwards. The nutshell was found in the left bronchus. Bryant.—Tumour Pressing on the Trachea, necessitating Tracheotomy; Recovery. Lancet, June 9, p. 573. NECK. Hawkins, Cesar.—Difuse Cellular Inflammation of the Neck, extending to the Mouth, following a Carbuncular Swelling of the Chin; FatalCHEST. 301 Clak.— Observations on Anomalies of the Thymus Gland. Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk., ii, 3, p. 196, 1859. Schmidt, p. 321, No. 3, vol. 105. This is a report of eight cases of acute and chronic disease of the thymus gland, with comments. CHEST. Pleura, Paracentesis of. Trousseau, A.—Paracentesis of the Chest. Clinique Medicale de l'Hdtel Dieu de Paris. Bnilliere, i860, vol. i, p. 619. Trousseau taps the chest through the sixth or seventh intercostal space, counting from above downwards, nearly four or five centimetres outside the outer border of the pectoralis major muscle. The skin should be punctured with a lancet, and the trocar pushed slowly through the muscles, but rapidly through the pleura, in order to make sure of piercing, and Dot detaching any false membranes that might exist upon the latter. Walter, A. G.—Case of Traumatic Empyema of Sixteen Months' Stand' ing,with Fistulce ; Treated Successfully. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 21, p. 48. A strumous man, set. 32, was stabbed under the left arm, between the eighth and ninth ribs, with a broad-bladed knife. Profuse haemorrhage from the wounded intercostal artery was stopped by a suture. Empyema resulted, and when (he patient came under Walter's care fully two pints of offensive pus were discharged daily from the wound, which had become fistulous. Believing the retention of decomposed blood-clots and the imperfect escape of the matter to be the causes of the protracted suppuration, Walter (December 8, 1857) cut away one inch of the eighth rib, and removed much very offensive matter, with masses of putrid coagulum resembling putrefied lung. For a time this was followed by marked improvement, but the condition of the patient having again become unfavorable (February 11), a freer opening was made by removing two inches of the eighth and ninth ribs, and a pyogenic membrane, covering the entire pleura, was scraped away with a spatula and the finger. On a subsequent occasion the cavity was sponged out. The man ulti- mately recovered. Strauss, Dr. E.—On Emphysema of the Skin after Contusions of the Chest. (Virch.'s Archiv, xvii, 5 u. 6, pp. 479-481.) Schmidt, p. 77, No. 4, vol. 106. A report of two cases, to prove that emphysema of the skin is not always symptomatic of broken ribs in chest contusions. Pericardium, Paracentesis of Trousseau.—Paracentesis of the Pericardium. Clinique Medicale de l'Hdtel Dieu de Paris. Bailliere, i860, p. 700. Trousseau cites several instances of the performance of this operation by German and French surgeons. In a reported case he divided the tissues carefully with the bistoury, which is a far safer method than using a trocar. He recommends the incision to be made immediately at the outer border of the sternum, and in the level of the fifth, sixth, orREPORT ON SURGERY. 302 seventh cartilage, having reference to tlie spot of greatest dulness, where the heart's sou nils are least heard. The costal cartilages, which touch each other at this part, should he separated by a spatula, or other con- venient instrument, and, if necessary, a piece should be cut away large enough to allow the point of the finger to penetrate to the outer surface of the pericardium, which should only then be incised or punctured when the presence of fluid beneath the finger has been positively ascertained. BELLY. I.—Gastrotomy. Jones, Sydney.— 'Epithelial Cancer of the Pharynx; Threatened Death by Starvation; Gastrotomy; Death; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 4th, p. 115. Jones had performed tracheotomy five months previously, in conse- quence of urgent dyspnoea. Deglutition, which had for several months been extremely difficult and painful, at length became impossible, and during six weeks the patient was kept alive by enemata. As she was sinking from starvation, Jones performed gastrotomy. Making an inci- sion about three inches and a half long, from between the eighth and ninth costal cartilages of the left side parallel to the outer edge of the rectus, the tendon of the inferior oblique and transverse oblique was divided and the peritoneum was opened. The stomach was drawn forwards and opened by a vertical cut § of an inch long, the edges of which were firmly sewed to the skin. Death followed thirty-six hours afterwards. Bell, Dr.—A Successful Case of Gastrotomy. Boston Journ., vol. xli, pp. 489—493. Med. Times and Gaz., March 31st, p. 332. In this case a bar of lead, iof inches long, and weighing nine ounces, which had been accidentally swallowed whilst juggling nine days before, was removed through an incision reaching from the point of the second false rib to the umbilicus. II.—Paracentesis. Carter, Th. A.—Some Suggestions for the Improvement of Paracentesis Abdominis in Cases of Ascites. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 15th, P- »53- . • , Carter proposes to obviate some of the disadvantages of the usual mode of tapping the belly in dropsy, by using a smaller trocar, which is to be thrust obliquely inwards and upwards through the abdominal walls during a deep inspiration. Only just so much fluid should be drawn off as will relieve the prominent symptoms. IIIi—Wounds. Flower. — Perforation of the Ileum by a Piece of Bone ; Acute Peritonitis, with Symptoms simulating Femoi-al Hernia. Ib., p. 6x1. In this case a splinter of beef bone, an inch and a half long, had per- forated the ileum, about eight inches above the ileo-csecal valve, and escaped into the peritoneal sac, together with iugesta, setting up peritonitis.303 BELLY. The patient at the same time had a femoral hernia, to which the symptoms were apparently attributable. An operation being performed, the sac was found to contain only a little dark serum ; the crural canal was free, the finger could be passed through it, and the foreign body was felt in the iliac fossa. The true nature of the case became apparent only at the post- mortem examination. Holt.—Injury to the Jejunum from a Contusion ; Subsequent Rupture and Fatal Peritonitis on the fifth day. Lancet, Dec. 22d, p. 609. Like.—Rupture of the Jejunum from a Kick on a Hernial Sac; Death from Peritonitis in thirty hours. Ib., p. 610. A man who for many years had had a large scrotal hernia, and had never worn a truss, received a kick in the groin. It gave him great pain at the time, and was followed by very severe and continuous suffering. Nine hours afterwards he was admitted into the London Hospital, where the house-surgeon made patient attempts with the taxis, which lessened the size of the rupture, from pressure of fluid out of the sac, but did not effect its complete reduction. Sixteen hours after the injury acute perito- nitis was well marked. An exploratory operation was performed at this time by Luke. There was no stricture in the inguinal canal, and the sac contained no bowel, but a large mass of adherent omentum, amongst the folds of which portions of food were found. Death ensued in fourteen hours. At the post-mortem examination a large laceration was found in the lesser bowel, through which its contents had passed into the abdo- minal cavity and excited general peritonitis. IV.—Internal Obstruction of the Intestines. Manec.—Internal Strangulation coincident with an Oblique, External, Inguinal Hernia; Death; Autopsy. Gaz. des Hop. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 22. Roux.—Internal Intestinal Obstruction co-existent ivith (Reducible) In- guinal Hernia. Gaz. des H6p., ,32, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, No. 3, P- 33°- Bunzel.— Case of Internal Obstruction from Twisting of the Bowel on its Axis. Oesterr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v. 31, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, No. 3, p. 333. Kxavss.—Case of Intussusception of the Boivel in consequence of a Tumour of the Intestinal Canal. Wiirtemb. Corr.-JBl., 28, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, No. 3, p. 334. Voss.—Passage of a Piece of Gangrenous Intestine. Norsk Magazin 7, 18.58. Pr. Ver. Ztg., N. F. ii, 38, 1859. Schmidt, vol io<, No- 3, P- 335- Durr. Ileus in consequence of an Acute Bend of the Bowel, caused by Old Adhesions. Wiirtemb. Corr.-Bl., 35, 1859. Schmidt, vol. I0?, P-333- The patient survived six days. The treatment consisted in purgatives which were vomited ; clysters of castor oil, croton oil, tobacco and" bella- donna, which were soon returned, unaccompanied bv fecal matter- and one pound of metallic mercury, given in two doses, which caused Vomit-804 REPORT OX SURGKRY. ing, but none of which was rejected. Eighteen years previously an abscess had formed at the navel, from which a worm that had evidently caused adhesion and perforation of the bowel was discharged. At the examination of the body a portion of ileum was found passing from below, on the right side, at an acute angle, upwards and towards the left, and ending in a roundish hand, which crossed the left flexure of the colon, and was lost on the peritoneal coat of the spleen. The upper end of this portion of bowel bent abruptly forwards, and the opposite surfaces of the loop were adherent. Above the bend the bowel was greatly dilated and congested ; it contained fceces and the mercury. The mesentery contained numerous deposits of tubercle, and the bowels were much matted together. Tuberculosis of the lungs and larynx was also present. Diaphragmatic Hernia. Bohn.—Hernia Diaphragmatica. Kbnigsberger Mediz. Jahrbiicher, ii. Canst., vol. iv, p. 183. A careful monogram based on an analysis of eighty cases. Derobe.—Reflections on a Penetrating Wound of the Chest and Belly, with Hernia of the Omentum and Internal Strangulation. Thesis, Paris, 1859. Canst., p. 155, vol. iv. A porter was stabbed between the fourth and fifth ribs on the leftside ; a portion of omentum which protruded through the wound w as tied and cut off; whilst the external wound was being closed the ligature slipped, but no bleeding took place. Two years afterwards, symptoms of internal ob- struction suddenly occurred, and ended fatally in eight days. Part of the transverse colon and omentum had protruded through the diaphragm into the chest. Curran.—Two Cases of Diaphragmatic Hernia. Lancet, Dec. 29th, p. 631. V.—Hernia. (a) Radical Cure. Morton, Jas.—The Radical Cure of Hernia. Edinb. Monthly Journ., Dec. 1st, p. 511. A paper read before the Glasgow Medical and Chirurgical Society, in which several of the modes of effecting the radical cure of rupture are criticised, and an operation devised by the author is described. This consists in " passing a metallic ligature subcutaneously around the sac, at the lower part of the inguinal canal, excluding that part only which lies behind the cord, and fixing it to a leaden plate by a nipple." Thompson, Henry.—Inguinal Hernia. Wutzers Operation for Radical Cure. Med. Times and Gaz., March 17th, p. 265. In this case the plug was withdrawn on the ninth day, and the patient was discharged, cured, a week afterwards. About three months after the operation the hernia again suddenly protruded. Macaulay, Page, Barber.—Report of Five Cases in which Wvt:ers and Wood's Operations were Performed. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 525, May 26th.BELLY. 305 Wood.—Case of Operation for the Radical Cure of Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., June 23d, p. 622. Walker, J. S.—Successful Operation for the Radical Cure of Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 13th, p. 353. In this case a modification of Wood's operation was employed. Marshall.—Inguinal Hernia. Wutzers Operation for Radical Cure. Med. Times and Gaz., March 17th, p. 266. Curling.—Wood's Operation for the Radical Cure of Hernia ; completely Successful. Lancet, Jan. 14th, p. 33. Fergusson.—odifcation of [Food's Operation; Death. Lancet, Jan. 14th, p. 34. Lee, Henry.—Radical Cure of Hernia. A New Modification of Wutzers Operation. Lancet, Jan. 14th, p. 35. Curling.—Adherent Omental Inguinal Hernia, Radically Cured by {Wood's) Operation. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 4th, p. 114. Fergusson.—Operation for the Radical Cure of Hernia. Med. Times aud Gaz., Feb. 4th, p. 115. Jordan, Furneaux.—A New Modification of Wutzer's Instrument for the Radical Cure of Reducible Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan 2ISt, p. 58. This consists in the addition of an india-rubber bag to Wutzer's instru- ment, which, when distended with air or fluid, is intended to press on the internal ring and posterior wall of the inguinal canal. (b) Strangulated Hernia. Flugel.—On Hernia and Herniotomy. Bayer, Arztl. Intell.-Bl., 26 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, p. 221, vol. 107. The author notices the liability of ruptured persons to colic, catarrh and rheumatism on exposure to cold, and supposes that rheumatism pro- duces a loss of elasticity and a stiffness of the fibrous ab£SSuS. ttsa^si* «*'m™p-s Xh Delhaye -Three Cases of Strangulated Hernia; "Debridement" bv *p.pSfirbat;e.Thisraet"0ds"cceedKH'' • -»^««nsM^ 2^35 ^iTfclS S,r«nsu,ale,lHenia hy the JdmnUlratm, of an mjusionof Loffee. Gaz. des II6p., c8. Canst vol iv r> r>-8 20806 REPORT ON SUlUiERY. The author considers the minuteness of modern anatomical investiga- tions in liernin, and the prolixity of the descriptions of operations for it, to he exaggerations which frighten some surgeons. Gosselin.—The Taxis in Strangulated Hernia. — Gaz. Hehd., vi, 44, 46, 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 217. In 1844, Gosaelin recommended a forcihle and prolonged application of the taxis in all cases of hernia where the strangulation had not exceeded twenty-four hours, after which period he considered it dangerous on account of the possihle replacement of gangrenous or perforated gut. He now publishes the results of eighty-five cases, twenty-nine of which were treated hy the tnxis alcne, in most of them applied continuously during from thirty to sixty minutes. Two of these twenty-nine cases were fatal, one from perforation of the bowel, the other because the taxis failed, and an operation was declined. The remaining twenty-seven suc- cessful cases soon recovered, with a single exception, in which the belly continued swollen and painful for a few days afterwards. His mode of using the taxis is by placing both hands on the rupture and pressing lightly for five minutes, after which the pressure is to be increased and continued during fifty to sixty minutes by the operator, who bends over his patient and throws the weight of his body on his hands, or by an assistant placing his hands over those of the surgeon when the latter becomes tired. Go.'selin thinks favorably of chloroform, but ascribes its beneficial action to the production of anaesthesia, which allows more force to be used, than to relaxation of the abdominal muscles. He notices the occasional apparent reduction of a hernia whilst the strangulation persists, and the apparent non-reduction of a hernia the contents of which have actually been replaced in the abdominal cavity; and explains the former circumstance by supposing, in scrotal hernia, that the contents are pushed up into the inguinal canal only; the latter he considers to be due to swelling of the sac, coverings, &c. He thinks that this mode of using the taxis does not place the patient in a more unfavorable condition for an operation, if this should become necessary. Rouse, Jas.—Cases of Strangulated Hernia; with Remarks on the Impropriety of Applying Forcible Taxis. Brit. Med. Journ., June 23d, p. 473- BRYANT, R.—On the Use of Chloroform in Strangulated Hernia as Indi- cating an Improved Practice. London Monthly Med. Rev., Aug., p. 67. The exhibition of chloroform till the patient is thoroughly insensible and relaxed is warmly advocated by Bryant as a most useful auxiliary to the taxis. Bryant, R.—On Constipation after the Operation for Strangulated Hernia. London Monthly Med. Rev., Oct., p. 170. Bryant points out the injurious consequences of purging after hernio- tomy, and shows that the constipation after the replacement of the strangulated bowel is a natural result of the injury the latter has under- gone, and that it disappears when the bowel regains its healthy state.307 BELLY. Gigvac—Shaking the Body, as an Auxiliary to the Taxis. Rev. de Ther., Med.-Chir., 16, 1858. Schmidt, No. 8, p. 219, vol. 107. A woman, cet. 55, had a large, strangulated, crural hernia. The taxis foiling, Gfignao lirid her raised by her legs and well shaken several times, after which he succeeded in reducing the rupture. (Preiss, who originated this proceeding, had his patient wheeled over a roughly paved way in a barrow, with his head downwards.) Danzel, A. F.—Practical Contributions to the Study of Strangulated Hernia. Wien. Ztschr., N. F. ii, 14, 1859. A critique of Richter's theory of strangulation. Jessop, Wm.—On a New Method for the Reduction of Strangulated Hernia. Lancet, Oct. 20th, p. 384. _ Having inverted a patient on his head and shoulders, by hoisting his legs upon the shoulders of an assistant, Jessop reduced a strangulated hernia by manipulating the abdominal walls in such a manner as to draw the bowels away from the rupture. Ulkich.—Six Remarkable Cases of Hernia. Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk.j v, 34, 35, 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 224. In the third of these cases the neck of the sac, which formed the con- striction, had been pushed up above the internal ring; it was drawn down and divided. In the fifth, the anterior wall of the sac consisted of several protuberant cysts, with intervening depressions. Hakes.—Inguinal Hernia; Operation ; Thrombus in the Mesentery. Med. Times and Gaz., March 24, p. 293. In operating on a large scrotal hernia, Hakes found a dark-coloured, elastic swelling in the mesentery, which prevented the replacement of the bowel until the internal ring had been divided. He supposed it to be a thrombus, caused by a too energetic use of the taxis. Coulson.—Case of Strangulated, Oblique, Inguinal Hernia ; Mortifi- cation of the Bowel; Operation ; Artificial Anus ; Recovery. Lancet, June 9, p. 571. Hewett, Prescott.—The Entire Great Omentum and Portion of Large Intestine Incarcerated in an Inguinal Hernia ; Recovery after Operation. Lancet, June 9, p. 571. Adams.—Death from Rupture of a Large Hernial Sac in a Fall. Med. Times and Gaz., June 2, p. 349. Luke.—Case of Operation for Strangulated Hernia in a Young Infant. Med. Times and Gaz., July 14, p. 34. Manec.—Hernia of Ccccum and Appendix. Gaz. des Hop., 116, 18 56. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 228. A young, weakly man, who had never worn a truss, was operated on by Manec for a scrotal hernia, on the right side, that had been strangu- lated several days. The inguinal canal was shortened and tense, and the rupture formed an elastic swelling, of the size of a pigeon's egg, in the scrotum. The tissues immediately beneath the skin were infil- trated with pus, in which was found a crooked process, of the thickness of a quill, two seconds long. Behind this there was a sac containing aREPORT ON SUItOEHY. 308 dark-blue, tense, globular piece of bowel, that could not be returned until after division of this neck of the sac. The patient died from exhaustion. The dissection showed that a large part of the caecum had lain in the sac, and that the vermiform appendix had descended outside the sac, to the neck of which it had become adherent. Kuhn.— Operation for an Inguinal Hernia in a Woman in Childbed. Gaz. de Paris, 51, 1859. iSchmidt, No. 8, p. 221;, vol. 107. In this case there was a double sac. HdNISH.—Radical Cure after Herniotomy. Allg. Wicn. Med. Ztg., 47, 1858. Schmidt, No. 8, p. 227, vol. 107. Danzel.—A Case of Inguinal Hernia, which contained a very small Piece of Gut, and seemed to be Partially Reducible ; Operation. \Vien. Ztschr., N. F. ii, 38, 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 229. A locksmith's apprentice, set. 26, who for several years had had an inguinal hernia on the left side, which was imperfectly kept up by a truss, was seen by Danzel on the seventh day after the commencement of symptoms of strangulation. Purgatives and injections had been already tried, and three days previously an evacuation had occurred. The patient had terrible pain in the pit of the stomach; the vomiting had abated. A reducible hernia was detected on the right side, and on the left a soft, painless, compressible, but irreducible, swelling, which descended out of the inguinal canal into the upper part of the scrotum. The contents of this rupture could be pushed slighly up into the canal, and the skin could also be pushed by the rupture on the point of the finger into the canal. The left inguinal canal felt harder and more resisting than the right. An operation was performed, and a piece of gut, of the size of a cherry, was found in the upper part of the canal, constricted by a fibrous thread. Thompson, Hy.—Three Cases of Strangulated Femoral and Inguinal Hernia ; Herniotomy. Lancet, June 9, p. 572. Patri.—Strangulation of a Hernia and Obstruction of the Bowel by an Intestinal Concretion ; Fatal Peritonitis. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 8, 1859. Schmidt, No. 3, vol. 105, p. 331. A case of strangulated hernia, where the symptoms continued not- withstanding its reduction. Three weeks after the commencement of her illness, the patient, a woman, aged 40, was admitted into the Gratz Hospital with symptoms of acute peritonitis, of which she died. Just below Poupart's'ligament, on the right side, there was an oval, not tense, fluctuating swelling, of the size of a nut; it gave a hollow sound on percussion; its neck could not be traced into the abdominal cavity, it could not be lessened by pressure ; and was not painful when handled. Sect, cadav.—Congestion and oedema of the lungs. Signs of acute peri- tonitis. A loop of ileum, one inch from the csecum, of a dark-red colour, was sharply limited by lines of demarcation. This loop of bowel contained only a little mucus ; its mucous membrane was congested, and the submucous tissue was (Edematous. At the line of demarcation the canal of the bowel was closed. At the ccecal end of the loop theBELLY. 309 peritoneum was coated with a thin layer of scar-tissue, and the mucous membrane was absent, but the margins of the gap were cicatrized. In the scar-tissue there was a perforation, of the size of a pea, which had cicatrized and was covered with a fibrinous coagulum. At this spot a hard, porous, earthy disc was found, at a right angle to the axis of the bowel, touching the walls of the latter at every point of its circum- ference, and evidently the cause of the mischief. The swelling below Poupart's ligament was the thickened sac of a crural hernia, -which no longer communicated with the belly ; it contained about half an ounce of yellowish serum. Legendre.—A Memoir on some Rare Varieties of Crural Hernia. Paris, 1858. Bailliere et Fils. The author, a prosector in the Ecole Anatomique des Hopitaux, made use of the subjects which he received for dissection for the purpose of an inquiry into the frequency of crural hernia. In 6044 adult bodies he found thirty-seven crural hernise, of which thirty were in females and seven in males ; in a single instance double crural hernia was present. Legendre describes four varieties of this form of rupture. Manec.—A Case of Crural Hernia of the Right Side, of several Years' Standing, and Incompletely Reducible ; Strangidation ; Taxis Suc- cessful. Three dags afterwards, whilst stretching in bed, Strangu- lation a Second Time, necessitating Herniotomy; Perforation of the Bowel; Death. Gaz. des Hop., 107, 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 227. Jobertde Lamballe (Allg.Wien.med. Ztg., 48, 1859, ^.5 22^) operated on a woman, 60 years old, for a large crural hernia, on the fourth day of strangulation. The sac contained some dark-coloured omentum, which felt cool, and a large loop of gut. He replaced the gut after dividing Gimbernat's ligament ; but the omentum, which he left in the sac, became gangrenous, and was thrown off. He remarks that cold omentum ought not to be returned, because it mortifies and is separated. Ciiassaignac.—Abeille Med. and Presse He'd., 41, 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 228. A case of omental hernia, which became inflamed, and required operation. Rapf.—Hernia of the Obturator Foramen. Thesis, Strasbourg, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p 182. Wagner.—Hernia of the Foramen Ovale, on both sides. Wunderlich's Archiv, Heft 1. Canst., vol. iv, p. 182. VI.—Rectum. Malformations and Diseases. Curling.—Case of Imperforate Anus in an Infant; Operation ; Re- covery. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 78, July 28th. Curling.—Inquiry into the Treatment of Congenital Malformations of the Rectum by Operation, founded on an Analysis of 100 Cases, nine of which occurred in the practice of the Author. Med.-Chir. Trans., p. 271.810 REPORT ON SURGERY. Boden'hamer, Wh.-O/i the Congenital Malformations of the Rectum and Anus. 8vo, New York, S. S. and W. Wood. This copiously illustrated book contains the bibliography, tetiology, pathology, and treatment of these affections. Ashton, J. T.—On the Diseases, Injuries, and Malformations of the Rectum and Anus. 3d edition, London, John Churchill, i860. Duigan, 0.—Cases of Fissure of the Anus. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Sept. 15th, p. 277. Duigan advocates forcible dilatation of sphincter ani, first suggested by Recamier. Rouse, Jas.—Ulceration of the Lower Extremity of the Rectum; its Varieties, Diagnosis, and Treatment. Brit. Med. Journ., May 12th, p. 356. The author describes three forms of ulceration affecting the lower end of the bowel—1st, the crack or fissure; 2d, a superficial ulcer, almost invariably coexistent with varicosity of the veins of the rectum ; 3d, an excavated ulcer situated between the external and internal sphincters. He treats the first two forms of ulcer, before they have become indolent, with mercurial ointments, but afterwards considers division with the knife to be necessary, as it is in the third form. The bowels must be regulated with a laxative, such as confection of senna, or with sulphur. Hyrtl.—Anal Cysts and Blind Hemorrhoidal Tumours. Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v, 49, 1859. Hyrtl describes a couple of round, pea-like, whitish cysts, at the right side of the anus, from which a soft, fatty substance could be squeezed out. They were dilated, sebaceous follicles. Smith, H.—Haemorrhoids and Prolapsus of the Rectum, their Pathology and Treatment, with especial reference to the application of Nitric Acid. 2d edition, 8vo, London, John Churchill. Bryant.—Polypus of the Rectum in a Child successfully removed. Lancet, Oct. 27th, p. 410. To this case is appended another of firm, fibrous polypus, occurring iu an adult. Le Gros Clark.—Fissure in Ano. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10th, p. 448. Clinical remarks on the diagnosis and treatment of this affeetiou. SMITH, H.—On some Points connected with the Pathology and Treatment of Prolapse of the Rectum. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 17th, P- 457- A paper read before the South Hants Medical and Chirurgical Society, in which the author distinguishes between protrusion of the mucous mem- brane alone and that of all the coats of the bowel. In severe cases he recommends deligntion, but in slighter ones the application of nitric acid, which may require to be repeated several times. Where the sphincter is relaxed, slips of the loose skin round the anus nre to be excised.GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 311 WAixu.-Amusat's Operation performed on account of Malignant Disease of the Rectum. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 25th, p. 187. The patient, who had long had carcinoma of the rectum, was greatly relieved by the artificial anus. The operation was facilitated by the pre- vious injection of air into the colon. Luke.—Obstruction of the Bowels; Operation for Artificial Anus; Death; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 18th, p. 165. In a case of stricture of the rectum, with a reducible inguinal hernia on each side, Luke reduced the left hernia, laid open the inguinal canal, passed his finger into the abdominal cavity, drew out the sigmoid flexure of the colon, fixed it in the external wound, aud opened it. The patient survived oidy six hours. GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. I.—Penis. Penis.—Report of Six Cases of Amputation of the Penis. Med. Time» and Gaz., May 12th, p. 471. In all these cases the disease was epithelioma. Wenz, R.—Amputation of the Penis, on account of Cancerous Disease. Wurtemb. Corr.-Bl., xxx, 12. Schmidt, No. 10, vol. 108, p. 64. II.—Scrotum. Erichsex.—Acute Inflammatory QZdema of the Scrotum, ending in Gan- grene. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 1st, p. ill. In this case the whole scrotum sloughed, laying bare the testes and a hernial sac. III.—Testis and Spermatic Cord. (a) Fungoid Disease. Coulson.—Hernia Testis from Strumous Deposit; Partial Removal; Cure. Med. Times and Gnz., Jan. 7. Coulson shaved olf the protruding portion, and united the edges of the skin across the surface of the wound. Recovery was retarded by erysi- pelas, but the operation was ultimately successful. Dieulafoy.—Benign Fungus of the Testis. Journ. Mexl. de Toulouse. Ann. par Jamaiii et Wahu, p. 244. (l>) Cancer. Lawrence.—Cancer of the Testis. Med. Times and Gaz., March 24th, p. 290. This was a firm variety of medullary cancer, of five years' duration. (c) Hematocele. Gruber, Dr. Jos.—On the Pathology of Iltematocele. Wien. Zeitschr., N. F. ii, 47, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, vol. 106, 326. Poland.—Removal of a Degenerated Spontaneous llcematocele. Lancet, Jan. 28, p. 91.318 BBPOET ON BUEGBEY. Excision of Testis. —Report of Seven Cases. Med. Times and Gaz., May lath, p. 471. Two of these are eases of carcinoma, in which llic disease speedily re- turned; four of scrofulous disease, and one of cystic sarcoma. All the patients recovered from the operation. (d) Varicocele. LBB, H.—On the Radical Cure of Varicocele by Subcutaneous Incision. (Tract.) London, John Churchill. A paper read before the Medical Society of London, in which Lee re- commends the subcutaneous section of the dilated spermatic veins, after compressing them with a twisted suture above and below the point to be divided. Jobeut de Lamballe.—The Treatment of Varicocele. Gaz. des Hop., 101, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, vol. 106, p. 325. .Tobert compresses and cuts through the vessels and their coverings with a loop of wire, the ends of which run through two holes in a heart- shaped piece of metal, and are secured to two small knobs. Erichsen.— Varicocele on both Sides; VidaVs Operation; Removal of Skin of Scrotum. Med. Times and Gaz., March 17th, p. 263. Case of Death from Rupture of a Varicocele. Lancet, March 24th, p. 295. In a case of double varicocele, after the veins had been obliterated by the twisted suture, Erichsen removed a large quantity of the loose skin of the scrotum. A man, the subject of varicocele, received a blow upon the scrotum, which became livid and enormously swollen. Much clotted blood was evacuated by free incisions, but fatal bleeding continued. The body having been injected with red size, one of the dilated spermatic veins was found burst. Treatment of Varicose Veins of the Legs, and of Varicocele. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 25th, p. 141. The obliteration of varicose veins in the legs is effected by Erichsen by compressing them between a harelip pin, which is passed beneath them, and a piece of bougie, which is placed superficially above the needle, the extremities of the needle and bougie being tied together. Care should be- taken not to transfix the vein. Injections of perchloride of iron are dangerous. He obliterates the spermatic veins with a silver thread, which is cast round them, and tightened so as to cut its way out by ulceration. IV.—Urethra. (a) Stricture and Rupture of the Urethra, and their Consequences. Wade.—Stricture of the Urethra; its Complications and Effects. A Practical Treatise on the Nature and Treatment of those Affections. London, Churchill, i860. The tenth edition, much enlarged, with engravings. Le Guos Clark.—Some Consequences of Stricture, and their Treatment. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. ij, p. 575. A clinical lecture, in which Le Gros Clark, in cases of impassable stric-313 GENITO-tRLNARY ORGANS. ture, with retention or difficult micturition, where the perinoeum is thick- ened, and where there is a localized urinary abscess, inculcates the practice of simply cutting into the urethra behind the obstructed part, so as to provide an escape for the urine. He deprecates the immediate introduc- tion of a catheter into the bladder, and much more fixing one permanently in this organ, as its presence gives rise to irritation. He trusts much to "Nature's modelling power," and as the case advances towards cure, occa- sionally passes a bougie to assist in enlarging the calibre of the canal. Bryant.—Retention of Urine, with Impassable Stricture; Operation; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8th, p. 559. Stanley.—Extravasation of Uritie within the Pelvis. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 1st, p. ail. The patient had long had difficulty in micturition ; his penis was hypospadic, and the external orifice of the urethra was about the size of a pin's head. He was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital with a distended bladder, tender perinseum, and red blush on the lower part of the belly. There was prominence, with fluctuation, in the left iliac region. Stanley diagnosed extravasation of urine into the cellular tissue of the anterior abdominal walls and ischio-rectal fossa. He made a deep incision on a staff, as in the lateral operation for stone, and gave vent to about a pint of ammoniacal urine, but the man died. Wood, Jno.— Tivo Cases of Stricture of the Urethra Successfdly Treated by the Urethi olome Dilator. Lancet, July 21, p. 58. This instrument, of which a figure is given, consists—(1) ofalongsteel staff, of the size of a No. 2 catheter, grooved along its convexity except for about two inches from its point, where it is curved. (2) Of a German silver canula, of the size of a No. 12, conical at its point; at the under surface there is a slit, through which a lancet-shaped blade can be projected. In using this instrument, the small steel staff is first passed through the stricture, and then the canula dilator is slid upon it till its conical extremity is engaged in the stricture, which is cut by projecting the con- cealed blade. Siiillitoe, Buxton.—On a Neio Form of Catheter for Dilating Stric- tures. Med. Times and Gaz., July 7, p. 5. This catheter has " the form of a short cone, commencing about one inch and a quarter from the end." Marshall, John.—On a New Urethrotome for the Treatment of Obsti- nate Stricture of the Urethra. Lancet, April 14, p. 370. This is a solid steel bougie, the stem of the size No. 10; the curved end for three inches has the size No. 2 ; the intermediate portion is one and a half inch long, and wedge-shaped. It is flattened on its upper and lower surfaces in such a manner that the sides form thin wings, with blunt cutting edges. The thin, curved end of the bougie being passed through the stricture into the bladder, the penis is drawn forward upon the instrument, which glides through the stricture with a verv slight force. ' bREPORT ON SURGERY. &14 Jamain.—Rupture of the Urethra; Infiltration of Urine; Fracture of the Pubis; Death on eighth day. Ann. par Jamain et Walm, P' 235- Paget.—Fracture of the Pelvis and Rupture of the Urethra ; Stricture, with False Passages and a Fulse Bladder; Operation; Successful Result. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. ii, p. 141. A large pouch had formed between the pubes and true bladder, into which the urine constantly escaped. Catheters passed readily into this pouch, but could not be introduced into the bladder. There was a fistula in the perinceum, which was hard and swollen. Paget cut into the peri- nceum in the middle line, found the vesical part of the urethra with a probe, and succeeded in placing a No. 8 flexible catheter in the bladder. Fergusson.—Case of Obliterated Urethra from Injury; Three Fistula: in Perinceo ; Satisfactory Results from Treatment. Lancet, July 21, P- 57- A seaman, aged twenty-two, was struck on the perinseum by a beam, which lacerated the urethra; the urine flowed by the wound for upwards of two months. Three months after the wound had nearly healed, three fistulse formed in the perinseum. A catheter was introduced with difficulty, the patient being under the influence of chloroform, and the urethra having been again rendered patent, the three fistulas closed ; a fourth, which was situated just in front of the scrotum, was diminished by a plastic operation. Symonds.—Old Stricture complicated with Abscess ; Retention of Urine ; Perineal Section; Complete Recovery. Symonds.—Transient Retention of Urine; Perineal Section subsequently done for Relief of the Stricture ; Successful in Immediate, Fatal in Secondary, Results ; Autopsy. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 11, p. 134. LUNN, Dr.—Retention of Urine, and Impassable Stricture; Perineal Urethrotomy; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 11, p. 142. A man, aged twenty-four, of intemperate habits, and who had been the subject of stricture for six years, during the first five of which he had been in the habit of passing a bougie, was seized with retention of urine March 17th. A catheter could not be passed, j8th.—A little urine passed, but a second trial with the catheter failed ; peritonitis set in. 19th.—A third attempt with the catheter being unsuccessful, Lunn cut down on the extremity of the instrument in the perineeum, and with some difficulty the urethra was opened beyond the stricture. Haemorrhage was free. No great quantity of urine escaped. 21st.—Death. Autopsy.—Signs of peritonitis, chiefly in the iliac regions ; bladder empty, contracted ; an opening, a quarter of an inch long at its fundus; the cellular tissue in the pubic region dark, gangrenous, had a urinous odour. Craven.— Impassable Stricture and Extravasation of Urine; Perineal Urethrotomy ; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 11, p. 143. Lee, Henry.—Division of Stricture of the Urethra by the Boutonnibre Operation. Lancet, April 14, p. 372. Hamilton.—Two Cases of Impermeable Stricture of the Urethra, treated .with Stafford's Perforator. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March 1, p. 65.315 GENITOURINARY ORGANS. Stiuctcre.—Report on Three Cases treated by External Incision. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12, p. 472. Two of tht'se were cases of extravasation of urine, which in one reached nearly as high as the umbilicus. In the third case the orifice of the urethra was °so contracted that it would hardly admit a small probe, and three or four fistulous openings existed just behind the glans penis, through which nearly all the urine escaped. The strictured part was freely divided. Subsequently the fistulce were closed by transplanting a flap from the prepuce, and the urine was diverted through the perinseum by a canula fixed in the urethra, which Dr. Humphrey had opened in this situation. BlBIGEH.—Dangerous Bleedings in the Treatment of Old Strictures of the Urethra. Wurztb, Med. Ztschr., vol. i, p. 55. (b) Abscesses. Venot.—On Abscesses in the Neighbourhood of the Urethra. Journ. de Bord., 2 ser., v, p. 113 sqq., Mars. Abscesses which occasionally are associated with blennorrhcea are of two sorts—those which concern the cellular tissue round the urethra, and those originating in the follicles of the urethral mucous membrane. The former are phlegmonous swellings, generally on the under surface of the penis, very commonly in the angle between the penis and scrotum, and end by healthy suppuration and cicatrization ; they do not obstruct the flow of urine. The latter begin as small, inconspicuous, deeply seated tumours, which are hard, and may remain long stationary; they some- times become painful, enlarge, and assume the characters of abscesses, which may burst internally or externally, or in both directions. They give rise to strictures and urinary fistulae. Venct recommends early evacuation when they enlarge aud become painful. (c) Painful Condition of the Urethra. Cosxes.— Urethralgia. Journ. de Me'd. de Bord. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 232. V.—Urinary Bladder. I. INJURY. SPBNOE.—Case of Rupture of the Urinary Bladder. Edin. Med. Journ., May, p. 981. 2. displacement. Johnston, Henry.—Singular Case of Inversion of the Urinary Bladder during Pregnancy. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April 16th, p. 126. A young woman, set. 20, about four months pregnant, after lifting a box, felt great uneasiness in her back, accompanied by a frequent and urgent desire to pass water, together with vomiting and great tenesmus. The bladder protruded through the meatus urinarius in the form of a soft, fluctuating, pyriform tumour, and was at first mistaken for the mem- branes, a miscarriage being supposed. On gently compressing it the protruding bladder receded, and the symptoms were at °once relieved.plfl REPORT ON SURGERY. 3. PARACENTESIS. ERICH8EN.—Perineal Emphysema, spreading to the Upper Parts of the Body, from Puncture of the Bladder through the Rectum for Retention. Lancet, Jan. 28t.l1, p. 89. Tatum.—Perineal Emphysema, spreading to the Upper Parts of the Body. Lancet, Jan. 28th, p, 90. In both these cases the bladder was tapped through the rectum, to relieve retention from impermeable stricture. In Erichsen's patient the emphysema appeared on the seventh day, and at the autopsy the gas which escaped from the cellular tissue of the anus had a feculent odour. The opening between the bladder and rectum was observed to be valvular. In Tatum's patient the emphysema appeared on the next day after the operation. 4. DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. (a) Cancer. Russell, James.—Cases of Malignant Disease of the Bladder. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 4th, p. 84. Luke.—Cancer of the Bladder. Med. Times and Gaz., March 24th, p. 292. A medullary cancer of the trigone, as large as half an egg, was found after death in the bladder of an old man who had suffered from profuse hsematuria during the last nine months of his life. His kidneys and ureters were sacculated and dilated. Watson, Hekon.—Case of Cancer of the Bladder. Edin. Med. Journ , June, p. 1093. (b) Stone. 1. Remarkable Calculi. Hall.—A Bundle of Fine Hairs, two inches long, growing from the Walls of the Female Bladder, and covered with Crystals of Triple Phosphate ; Successful Bemoval by Dilatation of the Urethra. Lancet, Nov. ioth, p. 461. These hairs appeared to have grown from the mucous membrane of the bladder; bulbs were distinctly visible in about one third of them. Hamilton.— Case of Enormous Urinary Calcidus. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Sept. 1, p. 259. The stone completely filled the bladder; it could be felt above the pubes and through the rectum ; it weighed three quarters of a pound, and was in great part composed of triple phosphate. No operation for its removal was practicable, and the patient, a man, £et. 27, died two years after the commencement of bladder symptoms. Browne, J.—Case of Enormous Vesical Calculus. Dub. Hosp. Gaz. This stone weighed about four ounces and one fifth, and was removed from a man, set. 60, after death. Bhodie, Sir B., and Lawuexcb, W.—Cases of Calculi mixed with Teeth, JInir, §-c. Med.-Chir. Trans., pp. 109 —112.GENITO-TJRINARY ORGANS. 817 2. Lithotomy. Heyfelder, J. F. — Vesical Calculi and Lithotomy. Deutsche Klinik, Oct. 6th, p. 393. Most of Ileyfelder's stone patients were children from the neigh- bourhood of Moscow. He found the Vichy waters very useful in gravel in adults. A fatal, lateral lithotomy is reported, where the bladder was found divided by a constriction into two cavities ; from the anterior a calculus had been removed, the posterior still contained one. Buchanan, A.—On Lithotomy considered as a Cause of Death, with Remarks on the Present State of the Operation usually called the "Rectangular Operation for Stone;" and on the best Method of Extending the Ordinary Incisions in that Operation, for the purpose of Extracting Stones of unusually Large Size. Med. Times and Gaz., March 31st, p. 311 ; April 7th; 14th, p. 339. The author discusses the various causes of death after lithotomy, and recommends a median operation, with a rectangular staff, which, he says, is less liable to be followed by infiltration of urine than the common lateral operation. Edwards.—Notes on the State of Lithotomy, Past and Presoit. (From a Lecture.) Edin. Med. Journ., June, p. 1082. A historical sketch of the various modifications which lithotomy has undergone, from the earliest recorded notices to the present day. Birkett.—Lithotomy for a Second Time in the same Patient. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 15th, p. 584. The second operation was performed six years after the first, during five of which he had been quite free from symptoms of stone. The inci- sion was made in the situation of the former one. Rigby, James.—Notes of Three Cases of Lithotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8, p. 555. In one of these cases the bilateral operation was performed, on account of the large size of the stone. Price.—Tivo Cases of Stone in the Bladder ; Lithotomy ; Recovery; the Second Case Operated on for the Third Time. Lancet, April 14th. P. 372. Price repeated the lateral operation a second and third time on the same patient, cutting in the scar of the first operation. Case in whi°h t^re were Fourteen Stones in the Bladder of a Man cet.-j2; Lithotomy; Unsuccessful Result. Lancet, June 16th p. 596. Uke.—Stone in the Bladder; Lithotomy; Inflammation at the Neck of the Bladder ; Complete Recovery. Lancet, Oct. 6th, p. 339. Williams.—Report of Cases of Calculus Vesica Operated on, during the Years 1858-59, in the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital. Lancet Aug. 18th, p. 164. ' This embraces twenty-two cases of stone in the bladder, in thirteen of which the lateral operation was done, and the median in eight; in one (a318 REPORT ON SURGERY. female) the stone was removed by dilatation. Five of the patients upon whom the median operation was performed were past fifty years of age; the youngest, which was the only fatal case, was eighteen months old. Simon.—Cystotomy for the Removal of a Piece of Bougie from the Bladder; Favorable Progress ; Apoplexy ; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., June 30th, p. 646. Wood, John.—Lithotomy ; Use of a New Form of Staff for Dilating the Prostatic Urethra. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 22d, p. 610. This staff (of which a figure is given) consists of two pnrts or blades, one of which slides in the other like the male blade of a lithotrite, and is also capable of rotation, by which the blades are laterally separated. The latter motion stretches the urethra from side to side, and allows the forefinger to pass between the separated blades into the bladder, after the tense urethra has been cut into. Mr. Wood uses a long, narrow knife, and makes a curved incision, which sweeps round the bulb. The urethra is to be opened in the median line. Ward, N.—On JUarton's Lithotomy Operation. Lancet, June 9th, p. <j6G. Ward expresses a favorable opinion of this operation ; its comparatively greater safety, simplicity, and facility of performance, appear to him to constitute its peculiar merits. He had formerly been accustomed to Dr Key's operation with the straight staff. Critchett.—Median Lithotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 7th, p. 11. Report of a case in which Critchett removed by the median operation two stones, coated with phosphates, from a boy, set. 3. The external wound was not more than £ of an inch long, and there was no arterial bleeding. Teale, T. P.—Median Lithotomy ; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., March 10th, p. 232. The patient was fifty-two years old. The stone, which was in the upper part of the bladder towards the pubes, was caught with difficulty. Death, from peritonitis, took place in the following night. KING, Dr.—Median Lithotomy ; Free Venous Haemorrhage ; Plugging of the Wound; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 4th, p. 116. A calculus, if inch long and {rths of an inch broad, weighing two drachms one scruple, was removed by median lithotomy from a boy, oat. 12, who had had symptoms of stone since he was three years old. Free venous bleeding took place during the operation, and recurred in the evening to a still greater extent. IIolt, Barnard.—On JUarton's Operation for Stone in the Bladder. Lancet, Sept. 18th. Holt warmly advocates this operation, and reports the successful case of a gentleman, set. 75, from whom he removed three calculi of con- siderable size by this proceeding. 3. Lithotrity. Thompson, 11.—On the Great Importance of Early Diagnosis and Treat- ment for Sto?ie in the Bladder. Lancet, Jan. 21st, p. 56. The ease and safety with which the destruction of a small calculus can319 GENITOURINARY ORGANS. generally be effected with the lithe-trite is contrasted with the gravity that attnches" to a stone of considerable size in adults. In children also an early diagnosis is most desirable. Where the stone has the size of an apple-pip, Thompson uses a lithotrite, the diameter of which is between a No. 5 and No. 6 catheter; where the stone is larger than a pea, he prefers lithotomy, on account of the difficulty which attends the expulsion of any but small fragments. Crichton.—On the Prevention of the Formation of Stone in the Bladder. Lancet, Sept. 15th, p. 260. Coulson.— Observations on Lithotrity. Lancet, Jan. 14th, p. 29. The author assumes the superiority of lithotrity over lithotomy in all cases to which the former is applicable, and says that where the stone is small and the genito-urinary organs are sound, a speedy cure may be con- fidently expected from it; but where the stone is hard and large, and the urinary organs are much diseased, it is unsuitable. He prefers a lithotrite to a sound where there is difficulty in detecting the stone, and where the prostate is enlarged considers a longer lithotrite than that usually employed to be indispensable. Paget.—Stone in the Bladder; Lithotrity; Symptoms of Rupture of Re7ial Abscess; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., March 31st, p. 315. ' W. P—, set. 42, had had symptoms of stone in the bladder for eis<ht months. The urine contained much pus and mucus, but the bladder was not irritable. Lithotrity was done four or five times, and much debris of the stone was voided. The urine then became fetid, and the bladder very irritable ; the belly tense and painful; the patient feverish and restless, and sank from exhaustion. The left kidney consisted of several cavities containing pus; in one of them there was an irregular oxalate-of-lime calculus. The right kidney was enlarged and beginning to suppurate. There were six or seven pieces of the calculus in the bladder. Sum—Calculus in the Bladder; Lithotrity ; the Stone Crushed in Five Sittinys, without Chloroform; Good Recovery. Lancet, Nov. 10th P- 459- This was a lithic-acid calculus, the size of a walnut. TnoMPSON, II. — Old Disease of the Bladder ; no Urine passed for Fears except by the Catheter; Calculus; Lithotrity Successful. Lancet Nov. 10th, p. 460. ' Owing to complete paralysis of the bladder, there was total inability to expel the fragments, which were all removed by washing out the viscus with tepid water. Thompson, 11.—Small Calculus in the Bladder of a Boy ; Lithotrity Successful at a Sinyle Sitting. Ib. Birkktt. Calculus in the Bladder for Two Tears; Lithotrity several times ; Successful Result. Ib. The stone was a large uric-acid one, and was crushed four times. Uhe.—Calculus in the Bladder treated by Lithyolysis, or Solution of the Stone by Injections of the Carbonate of Lithia, conjoined with Lithotrity. Lancet, Aug. 2 ^th, p. 185.320 ItKPOHT ON SUROKHY. 4. Calculi in Females. HUNTER, John.—A Case of numerous Calculi in the Bladder 0/ a Female. Lancet, July 21st, p. 56. Mrs. S—, set. 55, had suil*erecl from urinary disease for five years. Under tonics, antacids, and '* nitary" injections, the symptoms improved, and tlie case was supposed to lie one of chronic cystitis. She subsequently voided a phosphatie stone 1 inch long and ^rd of an inch wide, aftt-r several hours' agony. A catheter having been introduced, the bladder seemed to he full of of stones, and several small ones were removed, the urethra having been previously dilated during twenty-four hours with tent of gentian root. One stone having resisted all attempts to withdraw or crush it, Hunter divided the urethra right and left, by two incisions towards the rami of the pubes. Not having sufficient room, he cut upon the stone projected into the vagina with a curved forceps, but was compelled to lay open the urethra into the vagina, after which he extracted a lithic-acid stone nearly as large as a hen's egg. The patient recovered, and could hold her water three hours. Canton.—Stone in the Bladder of a Girl aged Six Years; Extraction ; Recovery. Lancet, April 14th, p. 371. Stanley. —Lithotomy in a Girl aged Thirteen Years ; Removal of a Large Stone; Perfect Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., March 31st, P-3I5- Stanley divided the urethra upwards towards the pubes, for about half an inch, and then used Weiss's dilator till the finger could be passed into the bladder. The stone was nearly as large as a pigeon's egg. Atkinson, E.— Case of Lithotomy in a Female; Removal of a Large Stone; Rapid Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 25th, p. 181. By dilating the urethra and dividing it with a bistoury, towards the right and left, Atkinson removed a stone from the bladder of a Jewess, set. 54. The stone weighed nineteen drachms, and measured 4+ inches round its short, and 6 inches round its long, axis. VI.—Diseases of the Pkostate. Pitman, Dr.— Unsuspected Abscess of the Prostate Gland, in a Case of Gonorrhoea, with Febrile Symptoms; Fatal Result. Lancet, Oct. 27th, p. 408. A baker, set. 25, had had gonorrhoea for a fortnight, with pain in the loins. On admission into the hospital he had the aspect of a fever patient, and was unable to pass urine except by catheter. He became delirious, and sank nine days afterwards. A large abscess was discovered between the bladder and rectum, communicating with the prostatic urethra by two ragged holes, and the prostatic tissue was extensively de- stroyed by suppuration. EuiCHSEN.—Case of Death from Profuse Hematuria, consequent on an Abscess between the Prostate and Rectum. Med. Times and Gaz.. July 28, p. 79.321 SYPHILIS. Meade, It. H.—On Inflammation and Abscess of the Prostate Gland. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 20th, p. 372. Four cases of this affection are here described by Meade, who wishes to show the expediency of evacuating the matter by incising the prostate through the rectum. Oesterreiciier, Dr.— On Diseases of the Prostate, and their Treatment at Carlsbad. Wien. Ztschr., N. F. iii, 7, i860. Schmidt, No. 6, p. 323. • > From a retrospect of ninety cases of prostatic disease, Oesterreicber adopts the annexed five groups, with reference to tbeir most important symptoms. All begin with a constant, dull sensation of a foreign body in the situation of the prostate, which is increased by laborious defecation, long sitting, driving and riding, &c. This sensation finally becomes an acute pain, the evacuation of the bladder is attended with tenesmus, and swelling of the testis, spermatic cord, corp. cavern, and haemorrhoids. Group I. Chronic inflammation or swelling of the prostate, with more or less general affection of the urinary organs, and remains of former syphilis. Group II. The same state of the prostate, complicated with stone in the kidney and bladder. Group III. The same prostatic affection, associated with urethral catarrh, inflammation, and stricture. Group IV. Prostatic swelling coexistent with chronic irritation of the seminal organs. Group V, and chief group. Simple chronic inflammation or hypertrophy of the prostate. Oesterreicher's treatment consisted mainly in a copious use of the mineral spring. SYPHILIS. 1. Text-books, Manuals, Treatises, fyc. Hceser, H.—Manual of the History of Medicine, and of Epidemic Diseases. Vol. ii, part 1. Jena, F. Mancke, 1859, PP- 184—296. The history of syphilis in the middle ages. Acton, Wm.—A Practical Treatise on Diseases of the Urinary and Generative Organs of both Sexes, including Syphilis. 3d edit., 8vo. London, Churchill. Parker, Langston.—On Syphilitic Diseases. London, John Churchill i860. ' The fourth edition, entirely rewritten, with numerous additions. Dartnell, R. G.—On the Prevalence and Severity of Syphilis in the British Army, and its Prevention. Brit. Med. Journ., April 28th P-3I7- The establishment of lock hospitals in garrisons and camps is recom- mended. The inefficiency of the customary "health inspection" to the detection of chancre also is pointed out. V. ITiiBBENET, C—Observation and Experiment in Syphilis; Contri- butions to the Pathology of this Disease. With 5 plates. Leipzig H. Ilaessel, 1859. v °' 21IUOl'OnT ON SURGERY. 322 2. Chancre, Constitutional Congenital Syphilis. Gamberini and Tiiiry.—On Chancre. Journ. de Brnx., xxix, p. 116, AoAt, 1859, nnd Presse tried., 38, 39, 1859. Schmidt, No. 7, vol. 107, P- 45- Rollet.—On the Plurality of Venereal Diseases. Savy, Paris. (Tract.) Hecker.—Cases of Congenital Syphilis. Virch.'s Archiv, xvii, 1 u. 2, p. 190, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, vol. 106, p. 302. Vidal, Emile.—On Congenital Syphilis. Paris. (Tract.) Tungel, C.—Constitutional Syphilis. Klin. Mirth. & des Allg. Krankenh. in Hamburg, 1858. Hamburg, Otto Mcissncr. Virciiow.—On the Nature of the Constitutional Syphilitic Affections. Arch. f. path. Anat., Bd, xv, 3 and 4 Heft., Nov., 1858. (Also in a separate form, Reimer, Berlin, 1859.) Canstatt, vol. 4, p. 211. A masterly account of the pathological anatomy of these affections, and refutation of the views of the antimcrcurialists, who hold that the mercurial cachexia is attended by bone-diseases identical with those due to syphilis. Doyon and Dron.—Cases where Syphilis tvas Communicated by a Suck- ling to its Nurse. Rev. Ther. du Midi, xiii, pp. .37.3 and 401, Juillet et Aout, 1859. Schmidt, No. 7, vol. 107, p. $0. A detailed account of nine cases. Dupont and Limbourg.— On the Contagiousness of the Varieties of . Secondary Syphilis, and on Chancres on the Read. Presse M6d., 26, 32, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, vol. 106, p. 302. Dupont and Limbourg maintain that a chancre alone can produce a chancre, and that where supposed secondary affections have been com- municated the observers have mistaken modified primary sores for secondary ones. Johnson, G.—Case of Primary Sore, resulting from Contact with a Person Suffering under Secondary Syphilis. Brit. Med. Jour., August 18, p. 649. Lee, H.—On a Form of Secondary Syphilitic Inoculation. Med.-Chir. Trans., p. 57. A series of selected cases, to show that secondary syphilis may be communicated by contact from one individual to another, and that one form in which it is so communicated bears a very strong resemblance to the primary indurated chancre. Faye, Hebra, and Lindwwun.—On the Influence which an Anti-syphilitic Mercurial Treatment of Parents has on the Health of their Children. Schmidt, No. 7, vol. 107, p. 49. , , J- 1 In reply to an inquiry about this subject, addressed by Faye to medical practitioners in all countries, Hebra reports ten cases from his private practice, from which he draws the following deductions: 1. Secondary syphilis maybe communicated to the woman without local affection of the male genital organ ; if so, the more readily when traces of Ryphilis are present on the skin or mucous membrane. 2. Syphilis may remain latent in the body, without discovering itself bySYPHILIS. 323 any symptom, and first betray itself by the syphilitic affection of the children. , . 3. The reverse may, however, happen, viz., fathers infected with general syphilis may neither infect their wives, nor produce syphilitic children ; or if the wife become infected, yet the child may be bom healthy, and remain so; or if the first children perished, yet the subsequent children may be born without syphilis. 4. The customary "mercurial treatment does not guarantee against relapse in the persons of the parents, nor against transmission of the disease to the children. But this defect is common to all other modes of treatment, and it must be granted that syphilis in parents and children is most certainly and safely treated by mercury. Duncalfe, H.—Gonorrheal and Syphilitic Rheumatisms. Brit. Med. Jour., June 9, p. 432. The author endeavours to show that rheumatism occurring during the progress of venereal disease is dependent upon it, and not merely concomi- tant j and he draws attention to the importance of a correct appreciation of the relative connection of these diseases. Fischer.—On Syphilitic Myositis. (This article is extracted from a long memoir on myositis, published in the ' Union Medicale de la Gironde, Janvier et Fevrier, 1859.) Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, Fischer adopts Bouisson's arrangement of syphilitic affections of muscles, viz.—(1) muscular pains, or syphilitic rheumatisms; (2) muscular con- traction, of which this memoir particularly treats; and (3) gummy tumours of the muscles. Thia transformation is consequent on a slow inflammation of the muscular tissue. It begins slowly, with vague pain, especially at night, and some constraint in the movements of the limb. The muscles slowly enlarge, become harder, more elastic, and their con- traction is difficult, painful, and imperfect. In the course of the disease the hardness of the muscles increases and approaches that of cartilage, and movement is impossible. This condition is followed by an atrophic shortening. Lagneau, Junr.—On Syphilitic Tumours of the Tongue. Gaz. Hebd., vi> 3^> 33. 35, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 4, vol. 106, p. 45. Russel, Jas.—Cases of Syphilitic Disease of the Cranium. Brit. Med. Jour., March 3, p. 165. Roth, Dr.—Syphilitic Gummy Tumours of the Dura Mater. Bayer. Aerztl. Intell. Bl., 37, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, vol. 106, p. 299. Munk, Dr.—Hemiplegia Syphilitica. Deutsche Klinik, 47, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, vol. 106, p. 301. Be yuan, Dr.—Syphilitic Paralysis of the N. Oculo-motorius Externus. Bull, de l'Acad., xxv, p. 356, Fevr. Schmidt, No. 6, vol. 106, p. 301. Boeck.—A Treatise on Tertiary Syphilis. Christiana. (Tract.) Keller, Dr.—Serpiginous Ulcers of the Skin. Wien. Med. Wohnschr., 46> 47> l859- Schmidt, No. 7, vol. 107, p. Stomund.—On Morbid Appearances of the Hair in Syphilis. Oesterr Zeitsch. f. prakt. Heilk., v, 37, 1859. Schmidt, No. 4, vol. io<5; p. ±6.REPORT ON SURGERY. 3M According to Sigmund, the mosL obvious changes which the hair under- goes in consequence of syphilis are, loss, alteration of colour, glossiness, and elasticity. The prognosis in the earlier stages is not wholly unfavor- able. The appropriate treatment of the syphilitic symptoms is often followed by perfect reproduction of the lost hair, with all its former properties. Grurer, Jos.—On the Metamorphoses of Organized Tissues in Syphilitic Subjects under the Use of Mercurial Remedies. Zeitschr. d. Gesellsch. der Wien. Aerzte., Nr. 12, 1859. Canstatt, vol. 4, p. 103. By comparing the weights of 103 syphilitic patients whilst under mer- curial treatment, and during convalescence, with the weights of sixty non- mercurialized patients suffering with gonorrhoea or primary syphilis, Gruber infers that the action of quicksilver on nutrition is not greatly injurious nor lasting. Waller.—Contributions to the Solution of some Disputed Questions in " Syphiliology." Prag. Viertel-jajrscbr., Bd. hi, 1859. Canstatt, vol. 4, p. 193. Waller, by an analysis of the urine of eight syphilitic patients who had taken mercury, demonstrated the spontaneous elimination of this mineral by the kidneys ; and since it is excreted by other glandular organs and by the intestinal canal, a time must come, in each case, when all of it is thrown off the system. Lorinser's statement, that quicksilver may remaiu years long in the body, is shown to be ill-founded. Lorinser, F. W.— On Deceptions and Mistakes in the Recognition of General Syphilis. Wien. Med. Wochenschr., Nr. 14—26, 1859. Also in a separate form, Tendler and Co. Canstatt, vol. 4, p. 194. A series of articles, in which it is attempted to be shown that the diagnosis of constitutional syphilis is uncertain, because its signs are not characteristic nor generally true, and, moreover, may be produced by mercury. Hermann, Jos.—The Advantages of the Mercurial Treatment. Wien, Tendler and Co., 1859. Canstatt, vol. 4, p. 192. The symptoms of chronic mercurialism are considered by this author to be mistaken for those of general syphilis. (He had denied in a previous paper the existence of constitutional syphilis as an independent form of disease.) 3. Syphilisation. Boeck.—Continued Observations on Syphilisation. Norsk Mng., xiii, 6, p. 545, 1859. Schmidt, No. 7, vol. 107, p. 46. Boeck deprecates the use of mercury, which he calls a devilish remedy. He repeatedly maintains that relapses after cure by syphilisation rarely occur, whilst they are common after mercurial treatment. He had never seen any one blind or lame, or with broken health after syphilisation. He holds syphilisation not to be merely a local process, acting by deriva- tion or by reparative suppuration, but to be analogous to vaccination ; that it fixes a certain materies morbi of the body, and renders it latent, but does not destroy it. Neither syphilisation nor mercury, according to this author, really cures syphilis, but only renders it innocuous.325 SYPHILIS. Sigmund.—Syphilisation in St/philitic Diseases. Wien. Med. Wochenschr., Nr. 17, 1859. SlSMUND.—The Mode of Performing Syphilisation. Wien. Med. Wochenschr., Nr. 19, 18^9. Five cases of cure by syphilisation are related, in which Sigmund used matter from fresh, non-indurated chancres. In his description of t he proceeding, it is said that for the first inoculation matter may be taken indifferently from a chancre with a soft or hard base. LlNDWTJBM.—On Syphilisation and the Treatment of Syphilis with Tartar-Emetic Ointment. Bayer. Aerztl. Intell. 131., 113, p. 173, i860. Schmidt, No. 7, vol. 107, p. 47. Lindwurm refers the curative influence of syphilisation to the excretory action of the numerous and prolonged ulcerations. He had submitted fourteen syphilitic patients to friction with tartar-emetic ointment, with- out any other treatment. When the pustules from one inunction had dried up, a fresh crop was produced by a second inunction in another place, and this was repeated. The results were in some instances sur- prisingly favorable, in others less good, and in others negative. He considers that syphilisation and tartar-emetic-ointment frictions produce like results, but that the syphilitic symptoms disappear more quickly under the former plan of treatment. IIeera.—On Syphilisation. Wien. Ztschr., N. F. hi, Jan. Schmidt, No. 7, vol. 107, p. 47. A report of twenty-four cases, of which three were affected with primary forms (ulcers and buboes), nineteen with various secondary symptoms, and two with non-syphilitic lupus serpiginosus. The inocula- tions consisted of four punctures, three times a week, and the whole number of punctures varied from seven to 604. Most of the patients gained weight under this treatment. The results of Hebra's observa- tions are, that both primary and secondary syphilitic patients thrive under continual inoculation from chancrous ulcers, acquire a good per- sonal appearance, and gradually lose all objective and subjective symptoms of syphilis. Fa YE.—On Syphilisation. Lancet, June 9, p. 583. A letter from Dr. Faye to the editor, giving his experience and opinions concerning this practice in Scandinavia. He says that in Norway the curative inoculation of chancrous matter is adopted in two hospitals as well as by Prof. Boeck ; that some relapses have occurred, though he believes not many ; and that the true proofs of a radical cure—of a healthy organism, viz., healthy children—have, up to the present time, been scanty. He considers that the complete elimination of the syphilitic matter by chancrous inoculation is improbable, and speaks favorably of the effects of depurative suppuration with simple issues. Kalischer, Dr. Emil.—Syphilisation. Berlin, i860. (Tract.)EBPOET ON BVEGBEY. SURGERY OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. t. General Manuals, Treatises, Reports, Lectures, §-c. Bell, B.; Watson, H.—Quarterly Report of Cases Occurring at the Edinburgh Eye Infirmary, Jan. ist to March ist, i860. Ediub. Monthly Journ., July. KUciiler.— Twentieth Report of the Ophthalmic Institution and Opera- tive Clinic connected with it, together with Remarks on my Prin- ciples of Action. Deutsche Klinik, Oct. 6, p. 391. In his observations on strabismus, Kiichler protests against the extreme refinement which the details of operations for the relief of this deformity have undergone. Chloroform is usually not merely superfluous, but even injurious. The horizontal posture is not essential when the operator is ambidexter. The upper lid only requires a speculum. An assistant, with a kook, &c, to fix the eyeball, is not wanted. In most cases, Kiichler seems to think it necessary to operate on both eyes, and he rejects the partial division of the tendon, recommended by V. Graefe in certain cases. In the operation for advancing a tendon which has gone too far back (as in divergence following the division of the muse. rect. int. for converging strabismus), he brings the globe into the desired position by closing the conjunctival wound on its nasal side with sutures. Winthek.—Manual on Diseases of the Eye. 8vo, ist part. Giessen, 1859. This seems chiefly intended as a guide to those commencing the study of eye diseases. Siciiel, J.—Hippocrates on Vision. Paris, Bailliere et Fils, i860. Square, J.—Address on Ophthalmic Surgery. Read at the Annual Meet- ting of the Brit. Med. Ass. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 15, p. 715 ; 22d, p. 733 j 29th, p. 751. 2. Ophthalmoscope. Tayloh, B. A.—Cases Illustrative of the Use of the Ophthalmoscope. Brit. Med. Journ., March 10, p. 185. Walton, Haynes.—Lettsomian Lectures on the Oj)hthalmoscope and its Application. Delivered before the Med. Soc. of Loudon. Brit. Med. Journ., June 16, p. 451 ; Aug. 4, p. 597 ; 18th, p. 643. 3. Orbit. Demarquay.—On Foreign Bodies in the Orbit. L'Union, 121, 123, 1859. Schmidt, No. 4, vol. 106, p. 80. This contains a description of the various forms of penetrating wounds, and a large number of selected cases. Walton, H.—Blows on the Eyeball and about the Orbital Region. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 521, May 26. Treats of the theories' which from time to time have prevailed respect- ing those cases where partial or complete blindness has followed blows on the orbit or eye, accompanied very slight or no outward sigii3 ofTHE EYE A.ND ITS APPENDAGES. 3*7 mischief Walton believes that in cases of this kind physical changes in the fundus may generally be detected with the ophthalmoscope. 4, The Eyelids. Jamain.—Abscess of the Eyelids. Gaz. des Hop. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 213. , . Sjchel, Junr.—Congenital Internal Epicanthus, with Atonic Ptosis 0/ the Upper Eyelid and Converging Squint. L'Union, 118, 1859. Schmidt, No. 3, vol. 105, p. 336. Ammox, F. A. —Epicanthus and Epiblepharon. Erlangen, i860. (Tract.) 5. Muscles. LATfsOK.—Case of Oscillatory Movements of both Eyes ; Division of both Musculi Beet. Int.; Great Improvement of Sight. Med. Times and Gaz., May 26. 6. Lachrymal Gland. Businelli.—Acute Inflammation of the Lachrymal Gland. Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v, 40, 18,59. Schmidt, No. 3, vol. 105, p. 336. A case of abscess in the upper eyelid, attended with swelling of the lachrymal gland. Hasner.—Sanguineous Lachrymotion, Allg. "Wien. Med. Ztg., 51, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, vol. 106, p. 330. The necessity of accurately distinguishing bleeding from the con- junctiva from that coming from the lachrymal gland is pointed out, and the possibility of a mistake is shown by a case where a small polypoid growth near the inner and upper angle of the orbit was the source of the blood. A case of genuine bloody weeping from the lachrymal gland is reported. The patient, a girl, set. 13, had not menstruated. 7. Lachrymal Efferent Apparatus. TEALS, T. P., J unr.—On Lachrymal Obstructions Treated on Mr. Bowman's Plan. Med. Times and Gaz., January; and London, Reed and Pardou, Paternoster Row. Teale extends the incision of the canaliculus into the lachrymal sac, which facilitates the passage of larger probes than those commonly sold as Bowman's. Teale's probes have a bulbous extremity, in conse- quence of which they are more easily introduced, and they cause less pain. 8. Conjunctiva. Stellway v. Carion.—On the Treatment of Ophthalmia Granulosa. Wien. Med. Wohnschr., 32—36, 1859. Schmidt, No. 6, vol. 106, P. 33°- According to Stellway, the granular condition of the conjunctiva is pro- duced by two essentially different elements—(1) Grayish prominences, of the size of a millet or hemp seed, probably having a follicular origin ; (a) papillary granulations. Granular conjunctiva rarely, under the moBt328 RIH'ORT ON SURGERY. favorable circumstances, heals spontaneously; but it does undergo a retrograde change, ending in atrophy. In the acute stage, Stellway recommends ice and leeches. Of caustics, Stellway prefers a broad, smooth piece of sulphate of copper. He deprecates the use of the solid nitrate of silver ; it destroys too deeply, and produces scars. Borelli. A Neio and Surely-acting Plan of Curing Granular Con- junctiva. Giornale d'Oftalmologia Italiano, vol. i. Canst., vol. iii, p. 108. SlCHEL, J.— On the Surgical Treatment of Granular Lids, after Hippo- crates. Annal. d'Oculist, Nov., Dec, 1859. Canst., vol. iii, p. 108. Borelli recommends the scarification of the granulations with a new, brush-like instrument, and Sichel describes the scarification and cauteriza- tion as laid down by Hippocrates. 9. Cornea. Arnold.—The Conjunctiva of the Cornea, and Arcus Senilis. Heidelberg, i860. (Tract.) Hancock.—Case of Conical Cornea, Impaired Vision, and Short-sight; Nocturnal Pain, and Morning Lachrymation ; Hancock's Operation, followed by Good Residts. Lancet, July 7, p. 7. Before division of the ciliary muscle, the patient " could not see the largest letters upon signboards at the distance of a yard or two, and when reading was obliged to hold the book close to her eyes. Afterwards she could read at eight or nine inches, and the cornea looked much flattened." 10. Iris. Wilson, H.—Remarkable Case of Polycoria. Med. Times and Gaz , p. 392, April 21. An account of a case where, from a congenital (?) defect of tissue, several apertures existed in the iris. The author refers to a description by Wilde, 'Dub. Quart. Jour. Med. Sc.,' vol. vi, p. 173. Hutchinson, J.— On Iritis as it occurs in Syphilitic Infants. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 31, July 14. The author gives a tabular statement of twenty-one cases, from which he deduces the following conclusions: 1. That the subjects of infantile iritis are much more frequently of the female than the male sex. 2. That syphilitic infants are most liable to iritis at about the age of five months. 3. That syphilitic iritis in infants is often symmetrical, but quite as frequently not so. 4. That iritis, as it occurs in infants, is seldom complicated, and is attended by but few of the more severe symptoms which characterise the disease in the adult. 5. Notwithstanding the ill-characterised phenomena of acute inflamma- tion, the effusion of lymph is usually very free, and the danger of occlu- sion of the pupil great.THE EYE AND TTS APPENDAGES. 329 6 Mercurial treatment is most signally efficacious in curing the disease, and,' if recent, in procuring the complete absorption ot the effused ly™PMercurial-treatment previously adopted does not prevent the occur- rence of this form of iritis. 8. The subjects of infantile iritis, though often puny and cachectic, are also often apparently in good health. y. That infants suffering from iritis almost always show one or other ot the well-recognised symptoms of hereditary (aint. io Most of those who suffer from syphilitic iritis are infants born within a short period of the date of the primary disease in then- parents. . North, S. W.—Infantile Iritis from Congenital Syphilis. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 3, p. 435. This child's mother had been a prostitute, and on two occasions had suffered from venereal affections. The patient, the only living one of five children, had a syphilitic rash, and a muddy and irregular pupil. 11. Iridectomy, Section of the Ciliary Muscle, and Glaucoma. Wilde.—Oft Iridectomy and Glaucoma. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., p. 262, Sept. 1. A letter commenting on Hildige's reply, and giving extracts from cor- respondence with Lawrence, Dixon, Haynes, Walton, White, Cooper, and Fiance, setting forth the opinions of these surgeons respecting the value of this mode of treatment. HiLDlGE.—Case ofChorio-iritisofRightEye, with Sympathetic Affection of Left; Treatment by Iridectomy. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., p. 346, Nov. 15. Hancock.—On the Division of the Ciliary Muscle in Glaucoma. Lancet, Feb. nth, p. 133, and 25th, p. 185. Hancock.—Cases of Acute Glaucoma, showing the Value of HancocJcs Operation of Division of the Ciliary Muscle. Lancet, July 7th, p. 7. Hancock supposes that spasm of the ciliary muscle constitutes an important element of glaucoma, and divides it in this disease. He pro- poses this as a substitute for iridectomy, and publishes cases treated in this way. Other two cases are reported in the "Mirror" of the 'Lancet.' Hulke.— Glaucoma, and its Surgical Treatment. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 67 ; and Lancet, p. 61, July 21st. An abstract of a paper read before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, in which the author gave an outline of the symptoms, ophthal- moscopic signs, and morbid anatomy of glaucoma, and urged the great value of iridectomy, showing the groundlessness of the objections which have been taken to it. Glaucoma and Iridectomy. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 206, Sept. 1st. Two cases of acute and subacute glaucoma successfully treatedUEl'ORT ON SURGERY. by iridectomy, with remarks upon Wilde's review in the 'Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science.' Hancock.— On the Division of the Ciliary Muscle in the Treatment of Glaucoma, as compared with Iridectomy. Lancet, Oct. 6th p 337 • Oct. 13tb, p. .355 ; Oct. 20th, p. 382. ' ' ' An examination of Ilulke's objections to division of the ciliary muscle in glaucoma. The author's reasons for submitting this operation to the profession, not as the "only known," but aa "the best operation" for the treatment of this disease, together with an inquiry into the results of the operation of iridectomy, as furnished by Dr. Bader's papers in the ' Ophthalmic Hospital Reports,' Nos. 9 and 10. Hulke.—On the Surgical Treatment of Glaucoma. Lancet, Dec. ist, P. 532. A defence of the author's views, and critique on Mr. Hancock's theory. Rouse, James. —Cam of Glaucoma treated by Division of the Ciliary Muscle. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 18th, p. 644. Coccius.—On Glaucoma, Inflammation, and the Autopsy with the Ophthalmoscope. (A report, with one lithographic plate.) Leipzig, 1859. Canst., vol. iii, p. 108. According to the author, paracentesis and iridectomy both act in the same way, only in different degrees, the former being less efficient in lessening the contents of the eyeball. Hildige.—Iridectomy in Glaucoma. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., May 15th. A case of irido-choroiditis, with complete posterior synechia, treated by iridectomy. Wilde.— Medical Epidemics ; Glaucoma and Iridectomy. Dub. Quart. Journ. Med. Sc., Aug., and Tract. A review of ' Three Memoirs on Iridectomy in certain Forms of Iritis, Choroiditis, and Glaucoma, by Dr. A. v. Graefe,' and a 'Report of (78) Iridectomy Operations (for Glaucormi) performed at the Royal London Ophthalmic Hospital, from May, 1857, to Sept. 1859, inclusive, by Dr. Bader.' The author attacks iridectomy and those who perform it, and criticises a case published by Hildige, which at one time had been under his owu care. Hildige.—Iridectomy in Glaucoma. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., p. 244, Aug. 15th. A reply to Wilde's critique. Coursserant.—On Iridectomy. Gaz. des Hop. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 206. A report of two cases of acute glaucoma, and one of sub-retinal dropsy, in which this operation was done. Teale, J. P., Jan.—Cases of Iridectomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. ist, P- 5*9- Tavignot. —Puncture of the Iris in Acute and Chronic Inflammation. L'Union, 125, 1859. Schmidt, No. 3, vol. 105, p. 43.THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. 331 The author states that he has cured ten cases of iritis hy puncturing the iris through the margin of the cornea with a stop-needle. Green way, H.—New Operation for Iridectomy, fyc. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 15th, p. 578. - . The inventor proposes to cut out circular pieces of iri3 with an ingenious instrument that consists of two parts—a, a flat canula, with a round hole in one side, into which the iris is to be sucked hy exhausting the air in the canula; and b, a sliding lancet, which chisels off the included bit of tissue. He had used this instrument in bullocks, but does not appear to have tried it in human eyes. 12. Choroid and Retina. Tux gill.—Choroiditis Pycemica. Klin. Mitth. v. d. med. Abth. des AUg. Krankenh. in Hamburg, 1859, p. 37. Schmidt, p. 81, No. 4, vol. ioo~. A case of suppuration of the eyeball occurring in connexion with purulent infiltration of the muscles of the right arm and inflammation of the left knee-joint. Sichel.—On the Curability of Detached Retina. Clinique Europeenne, No. 29. Canst., vol. iii, p. 111. Sichel reports two cases, to show that the detached retina may again become applied to the choroid, and in some degree regain its function. ■\Yordswokth.—Case of Impaired Vision; Apoplexy of the Retina fol- lowed by Hemiplegia; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 523, May 26th. The patient's urine contained a very large quantity of albumen. 13. Lens. V. Graefe.—On the Connexion betzveen Diabetes Mellitus and Diseases of the Eye. Deutsche Klin., No. 10. Canst., vol. iii, p. 205. This is a report of a communication made by V. Graefe to the Society for Scientific Medicine, Berlin. He considers the prevalent idea, that amblyopia often depends on diabetes, to be groundless, and believes the error has arisen from confusing amblyopia with impaired accommodation. The etiological dependence of cataractous, lenticular opacities on diabetes, is undoubted by Graefe, who found them present in one quarter of diabetic cases. Richardson.—Synthesis of Cataract. Med. Times and Gaz., April 21st, p. 412. This is an abstract of the second paper read by Richardson before the Medical Society, London, describing experiments with glycerine, alcohol, chloride of sodium, acid urate of soda, and iodide of potassium. The injection of the first four substances into the dorsal sac of frogs was followed by opacity of the lens. A negative result was obtained with iodide of potassium. Wilson, H.—Pyramidal Cataract and Conical Cornea. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Dec. 15th, p. 371. The description of a case, with remarks on the etiology of this condition.332 Hlii'OKT ON SUKCWtY. 14. Amaurosis. IIildtge.—On Hysterical Amaurosis. Dub. IIosj). Gaz., January J 6, P- 25- . Siiaukky.—Case of Hysterical Amaurosis. Dub. IIosp. Gaz., March j c, p.85. llildige reports two cases of amaurosis associated with suspended men- struation occurring in young women. No organic lesion was detected with the ophthalmoscope. Both recovered under a tonic treatment. Sharkey's patient, a delicate, nervous lady, vet! 19, became convulsed, delirious, and perfectly blind four days after her first confinement. Hildige.—On Amaurosis in Pregnancy. Dub. IIosp. Gaz., April 2, P-99- , ... Hildige remarks that the occurrence of amaurosis immediately after delivery is comparatively rare. It more generally commences in the first months of pregnancy, and disappears after delivery. Hildige found decided congestion of the optic papillae in all the cases of amblyopia arising from pregnancy that he had examined. He attributes the blindness in Sharkey's case to congestion of the retina and optic nerve. 1 Cancer of Eyeball. Hulme.— Case of Conyenital (?) Malignant Disease of the liiyht Eyeball. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 29, July 14. A case of medullary carcinoma of both eyes, first noticed in the left shortly after birth, and ending fatally by extension backwards to the brain. 16. Accommodation. Lawrence, Z.—The Utrecht School of Ophthalmic Surgery. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 10, p. 449; Dec. 15, p. 579; Dec. 29th, p. 634. A resume of Donder's investigations in the disorders of accommodation, together with an account of some improved methods in the ophthalmoscopic investigation of the eye, and of some miscellaneous points of interest in the pathology and therapeutics of ocular disease. Solomon, Y.J.— The Surgical Treatment of Short-sight by Division of the Ciliary Muscle. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 548, June 2. Solomon finds that by dividing " the muscle of the lens" in a direction transverse to its fibres, its power to draw the lens forward is so far lessened that the focal range becomes doubled, both for distant and near objects. OimiOP.'EDIC SUllGEEY. Jordan, Fauneaux — The Anatomy and Surgery of Talipes Equino-varus. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. 7, p. 8. n 1 e A paper read before the Birmingham and Midland Counties Branch ot the British Medical Association.333 ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY. Tuppebt.—0" the Treatment of Club-foot. Bayer, aerztl. Int. 131., 3, 1859. Schmidt, Nr. 1, vol. 105, p. 90. Tamplin, R. W.—A course of Lectures on the Nature and Treatment of Deformities. Delivered at the Royal Orthopedic Hospital, May. Brit. Med. Jour., June itfth, p. 449 ; 23d, p. 469 ; July 7th, p. 515; 14th, p. S36 5 28lh> P- 573 5 August 4th, p. 641. Adams, W.—On the Reparative Process in Human Tendons after Sub- cutaneous Division for the Cure of Deformities; ivith an Account of the Appearances presented in Fifteen Post-mortem Examinations in the Human Subject; also a Sei-ies of Experiments on Rabbits, and a R6sume of the English and Foreign Literature of the Subject. London, J. Churchill, i860. Coote, Holmes.— On Diseases of the Joints and Deformities—1. Curvature of the Spin?. London Monthly Med. Rev., July, P- 9- Brodhurst, B. E.—Cases of Jntra-uterine Fracture, with Observations on the Analogy between Fracture in Utero and Congenital Distortion. Med.-Chir. Trans. Many carefully observed cases of intra-uterine fracture of the foetal limbs, and of congenital deformities, happening after injuries to the mother, have been collected by the author in support of the opinion that " fracture in utero and congenital distortion have this in common, that physical injury has excited abnormal muscular action in the foetus." Startin, James.—Novel Operation for the Cure of Deformity of the Left Side of the Face resulting from Paralysis of the Right Side, with Successful Residt. Med. Times and Gaz., March 17, p. 263. Startin divided subcutaneously the muscles of expression on the left side of the face of a young lady who had suffered from infancy from paralysis of the portio dura of the right side. The least attempt to speak or smile was attended with distortion of the left cheek, the right remaining without expression. Myotomy was followed by great improve- ment. Hoppe.—Extempore Apparatus for Stretching Contracted Knees. Preuss. Vereinsz., Nr.. 22. Canst., vol. iv, p. 32. This consists of a board, on which the limb is placed, the knee being drawn towards it by a broad strap. Ulrich.—Contribution to the Treatment of Spinal Curvatures. Bremen, i860. Canst., vol. iv, p. 27. Spinal curvatures, according to Ulrich, have but two modes of origin, a bony or muscular, the latter being by far the more common. He warmly advocates the Swedish gymnastic treatment, either alone or as an auxiliary to mechanical apparatus. EulenREitG.—Contribution to the JEtiology and Treatment of Scoliosis Habitualis. Virchow's Archiv, Bd. xvii, Heft. 3 u. 4. Canst., vol iv p. 27.REPORT ON SURGERY. EuLENBERO.— Contribution to the Diagnosis of Deformity (Deviation) of the Scapula, in consequence of Perverted Muscular Action. Preuss. Vereinsz., Nos. 17 and 19. Canst., vol. iv, p. 30. Le Gendre.—Case of Club-hand. Gaz. M<Sd. tie Paris, Nr. 19. Canst., vol. iv, p. 31. Toppert.—On the Treatment of Club-foot. Bayer, iirztl. Intelligenz- blatt, Nr. 3, Canst., vol. iv, p. 33. Lane and Fekgusson.— Two Cases of Forcible Flexion of Anchylosed Elbows. Lancet, June 9, p. 272. Liniiart, Wm.—On Relaxation ; Atonicily of Ligamentous Tissues. Prag. Vjhr.-schr., lxiv, pp.81—105, 1859. Schmidt, No. 8, vol. 107, p. 200. The author, in some general remarks on the nature of relaxation, says that the production of deformities of joints by a certain weakness or diminished power of resistance of their ligaments is unfounded, and then passes to a consideration of the changes which the ligaments undergo in the varieties of club-foot, &c. Liniiart.—On Relaxation {Atony) of the Tendinous Structures. Prag. Viertljs., Bd. x. Canst., vol. iv, p. 31. An account of a case of double congenital luxation of the hip (with spina bifida, hydrorhachis, and genu recurvatum), together with some remarks on the origin of this deformity. SURGERY OP THE EAR. Toynbee, J.—The Diseases of the Ear ; their Nature, Diagnosis, and Treatment. With 100 engravings on wood. 8vo. cloth, London, Churchill. The most perfect monogram on this subject. Eriiard.—Rational Aural Surgery, from a Clinical Point of View. With 31 woodcuts. Erlangen, F. Euke. Canst., vol. iii, p. 121. Tro'ltsch.—Anatomical Contributions to Aural Surgery. Archiv f. Patholog. Anat. u. Physiol, und fur Klin. Medicin, Bd. xvii, Hft. 1 u. 3. Canst., vol. iii, p. 122. A report of sixteen dissections of ears in cases of impaired hearing. Bonafos and Lazcrnu.— Otorrhea ; Death ; Induration of the Inferior Peduncle of the Cerebellum. Ann. par Jamain et Wahu, p. 219. Toynbee.—Acute Caries of the Tympanic Cavity. JMed.-Chir. Trans., P- aI7- Billroth.—A New Instrument for the Extraction of Foreign Bodies from the Ear. Deutsche Klinik, No. 32; with figures. Canst., vol. iii, This consists of a canula, from which a loop of wire can be projected and slipped behind the object to be pulled out. Kramer— The Diagnostic Tube, and the Diseases of the Middle Ear. Deutsche Klinik, No. 52.335 SURGERY OF THE TEETH. Kramer's tube is a sort of flexible stethoscope, one end of which is stuck in the patient's ear, the other in the surgeon's. SURGERY OF THE TEETH. Magitot, Dr. E.— On Tumours of the Dental Periosteum. Paris, i860. (Tract.) Parker, Saml. A.— Contributions to Dental Surgery. Lancet, March 31, p. 318. Grtmshaw.—Introductory Lecture on Dental Surgery, delivered at Steevens' Hospital School of Medicine, Dublin. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., p. 209, July 16.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY AND THE DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. BY GEAILY HEWITT, M.D. Lokd., M.E.C.P., physician to the british lying-in hospital, lecturer on midwifery and the diseases of women and children* in st. mary's hospital medical school, etc. PAET I.—MIDWIFEEY. WORKS RELATING GENERALLY TO MIDWIFERY. Dr. Fleetwood Churchill.—On the Theory and Practice of Midwifery. 4-tb edit., i860, pp. 705. This is a new edition of an already well-known work. Obstetrical Transactions. Vol.1. The Transactions of the Obstetrical Society of London for the Year 1859. Together with a Report of the Inaugural Meeting of the Society, a List of Officers, Fellows, ,§-c. 8vo, Lond., i860, Longmans. Witli 7 plates and 3 woodcuts. This volume, the result of the proceedings of the Obstetrical Society of London during the first year of its existence, contains forty-one contri- butions on obstetrics and diseases of women and children. Short analyses of the greater portion of these papers appeared in the 'Year Book' for 1859. Register of Obstetric Cases. 4to, Lond., Smith and Co., i860. A form for the noting of obstetric cases, recommended by the Council of the Obstetrical Society. Dr. Jackson.—On Midwifery in the Fast. Obstet. Trans., vol. ii, P- 37- Eiciistedt.—Procreation, Mechanism of Deliver)/, § c. 8vo, Greifswald, 1859.337 PREGNANCY. WARRINGTON.—The Obstetric Catechismf; containing 2347 Questions and Anstverson Obstetrics Proper. Willi 150 illustrations, i2mo. pp. 445. LippincottandCo., Philadelphia, i860. A new edition of a work which appeared first in 1853. IiBNOTR.—Atlas, complementary to all Works on Midwifery. Paris, Victor Masson, i860, publishing in parts. Dr. GrKATLY Hewitt. — On the Importance of the Study of Midwifery. Being an Introductory Lecture delivered at St. Manfs Hospital Medical School. Lancet, May 5th, i860, p. 438. J. T. Mitchell.—On some of the Exigencies connected with Preter- natural Labour. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 257. Tarnieu.—Cases in which the Extraction of the Foetus is Necessary, and on the Operative Procedures concerned in the same. 8vo, Paris, i860. GENERAL ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF MOTHER AND FCETUS. Prof. Schroeder VAN DER Kolk.—On the Allantois, and its Formation and Changes in the Human Subject. C. G. van der Post, Amsterdam, i860, 4to, pp. 36, with a plate. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 22d, This is a contribution to the history of the allantois in the human subject. The author believes that the allantois begins to form very early, before the intestinal canal as vet exists. Ploss.—On the Circumstances giving rise to the Proportion of Sexes of Children. Berl., 1859, Hirschwald. Canst., vol. iv, p. 379. IIoppe.—On the Duration and Hereditary Transmission of Diseases, and on the Deterioration and Improvement of the Human Race. Berl., 1859. TREATISES, ETC., HAVING REFERENCE TO SPECIAL BRANCHES OF OBSTETRICS. PREGNANCY. Duration. Tarneae.— On Protracted Pregnancy. Gaz. Hop., 18^9,149. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 59. A case is here recorded in which the pregnancy extended to 311 days. Buzzell.—Foetus carried Twenty-two Months beyond Term. Bost. Med. and Surg. Journ., June 14th. Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., Sept., i860,' p. 894. Signs. Dr. Tanner.— Signs and Diseases of Pregnancy. See end of Part II. Schultze.— On Auscultatory Perception of Intrauterine Respiratory Movements. Dent. Kl., 3, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 456. In a case of prolapsus of the funis, Schultze replaced the same, and in 22REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 888 doing so felt the respiratory movements of the nose and mouth. Apply- ing the stethoscope he heard at the same time with each respiration of the child a loud, gurgling noise at the mother's left side, where lay the thorax of tlie foetus. Bkeslau; C. Hennig; Haake.— On the Diagnosis of the Sex of the Foetus by the Frequency of the Cardiac Pulsations. Mon. f. Geb., June, i860, p. 437 etseq. In order to test the truth of Frnnkeiihiinser's assertion, that the sex of the fcetus can be predicted by simply counting the heart's beats, the average frequency of these pulsations being stated to be in the male 124, in the female 144, observations on a large scale have been made, quite independently of each other, by Breslau, Henilig, and Haake. The results obtained are embodied in three essays. Breslau examined fifty pregnant women, and found that a prediction based on Frankenhauser's statements proved false in twenty-five cases and correct in nineteen; six were doubtful cases. The frequency of the pulse after birth was noted by Breslau. The average of thirty-nine observations of males was 124 beats per minute ; the average of twenty-eight observations of females was 120. Hennig examined twelve cases. The average of the pulsations in males before birth was 143, in females 150. He also examined the relative frequency of the pulsations during the first three weeks of extra-uterine life in 120 cases. On an average there was found to be only a trifling difference in the two sexes. Haake's observations refer to fifty pregnant women. In the first place he found that the frequency of the foetal pulsations does not progressively diminish with the advance of pregnancy, but that there are considerable variations at different times, irregular in character, and for the most part iinexplainable, and this alone would interfere with the efficiency of Frankenhauser's test. The average of the foetal pulsation was in males 145, in females 143. He also found that there was no essential difference after birth. FrankenhaUSEE.—On the Funic Souffle, Compression of the Funis, and Compression of the Brain. Mon. f. Geb., May, i860. The funic souffle is produced, as Frankenhiiuser believes, by com- pression of the cord. It is to be heard chiefly in the last two months of pregnancy, and was detected by himself in about eight per cent, of the cases. It is mostly heard when the breech presents, or when the cord is much twisted. Dr. Francis Adams.—Foetal Auscultation. Med. Times and Gaz., July 2i8t, i860, p. 65. Dr. Adams maintains that the present system of foetal auscultation is founded in error; the principal ground for this statement being the various descriptions given by authorities as to the nature of the sounds hoard. He believes that the double beats occasionally heard may be caused by a couple of uterine arteries lying close together, or even by a single artery possessed of a pulsus dicrolos passing over some solid part of the child's body,839 PREGNANCY. Dr. Dhuitt.—Practical Remarks on Foetal Auscultation. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 21st, i860, p. 57. Dr. Druitt concludes that the sounds of the foetal heart may be at times inaudible in a small number of cases ; that, nt times, the sound may- be indistinct; but that in all cases of pregnancy with a live child, at some times, and generally at all times, during the later months, the sounds may be heard clearly and unmistakeably. Prof. Crede.—On the Cicatrix-like Streaks in the Skin of the Abdomen, the Breast, and the Thigh, in. Pregnant Women and Women who have been Delivered. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1859, p. 321. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 187. Crede finds that in not a few cases these cicatrix-like streaks are not formed at all during pregnancy, and sometimes in cases where pregnancy has repeatedly occurred there is no trace of them. This happened in ten per cent, of the cases examined. Dr. James Jones.—Case of Tumour in the Abdomen, with a History of Supposed Pregnancy. Med. Times and Gaz., July 21, p. 58, i860. Dr. Rout. C. Croft.—On the Difficulty nf Diagnosis betvieen Pregnancy and Tumours of the Abdomen. Lancet, Jan. 28, i860, p. 85. Thomas.—Foetus in Utero ; Behaviour of the Cervix dxiring Pregnancy. N. Y. Journ. Med., March, i860, p. 251. MECHANISM OF DELIVERY. King.—A New Pelvimeter. Am. Med. Monthly, Feb., i860. Brit, and For. Quart. Rev., July, i860, p. 275. King's new pelvimeter consists of a cylindrical female syringe, through the extremity of which two diverging steel prongs, with knobbed ends, protrude, like the horns of a snail, and which are connected with the piston. The extent to which the diverging horns are protruded is marked off on the stem of the piston. BlRNBAUM.— Observations, and Remarks on the Obstetric Importance of the Lumbar part of the Vertebral Column. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., i860, p. 98. Schweuel.—The Joints of the Pelvic Bones, and their Relations to Parturition. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., 1859. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 189. Van Pelt.—Measurements of the Diameter of the Fcetal Head at Term, collected from Seven Hundred Cases of Labour. Am. Med. Journ., Jan., 1860, p. III. Van Pelt's observations were made with Stein's cephalometer, and every precaution was taken to ensure accuracy. The average occipito-mental mea- surement of 646 heads was 5^ inches; the occipitofrontal, 4**; the bi-parietal, 3*^. The average proportionate measurements in male and female heads are not given.REPORT OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. 310 Van Pelt.—On the Transverse or Occipito-iliac Positions of the Vertex Presentation. Am. Med. Jour., April, i860, p. 367. The author states that observations induce him to believe that occipito- iliac or transverse presentations occur more frequently than is usually supposed. In 742 cases, they occurred twenty-three times; in thirteen, the occiput to the left side ; in ten, to the right. Dr. R. Uvedale West.—Substitutions of Parts in Labour; Effects of Internal Contractions. Gaz. Ilebd., Feb. 24, i860. Four cases are related by Uvedale West of substitution of one presenta- tion for another during labour, which he explains by the aid of the hypothesis recently propounded by Spiegelberg (see 'Year Book,' 1859). The result is, that the presenting part, which is near the sacrum, runs a risk of being replaced by that which is near the pubis, the uterine pains having more effect on the latter than the former, owing to the curve of the parturient canal. Keiirer.—On Deliveries in Cranial Presentations with the Occiput Bac/c- xoards. 8vo. Giessen, 1859. John Clay.—On a New Sign of Post-partum Detachment of the Placenta. Dub. Quart., Nov., i860, p. 372. If a ligature be placed on the cord on the maternal side of the place where it is to be cut across, the following phenomena are observed. At first the end is flaccid ; it then fills, and is tight and larger than before ; this condition it retains as long as the placenta is still adherent; when that adhesion has ceased, the cord again becomes flaccid, and this is the sign of detachment now pointed out. UNUSUAL LOCALITY OP PREGNANCY. Hecker.—On Extra-uterine Pregnancy. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., 1859. Schmidt, June, vol. 106, p. 307. This is a new series of statistics in reference to extra-uterine pregnancy. The author recognises tubal, interstitial, and abnormal varieties; but does not think that the existence of ovarian pregnancy is sufficiently established. He has collected statistics of 64 cases of tubal gestation; 26 cases of interstitial pregnancy ; and 132 cases of abdominal pregnancy. Jonathan Hutchinson.—Report on the Treatment of Cases of Extra- uterine Fcetation extending beyond the Full Period of Pregnancy. Med. Times and Gaz., July 21 and 28, Aug. 4 and 11, i860, pp. 56, 77, 105, and 132. Mr. Hutchinson's report applies to that group of cases of extra-uterine fcetation in which the life and growth of the foetus are prolonged to the full period of gestation, the foetus then in all cases dying. The object of the report is to establish some general rules as to the diagnosis aud treat- ment of these cases. A tabular statement is first given of eleven cases in which extra-uterine fcetations were removed by secondary abdominal section, i. e. an opera- tion consisting in enlarging the opening already made by ulceration;341 PEBGNANOY. and another table of fourteen cases of primary abdominal section, i. e. in which no abscess had yet opened. The extra-uterine foetus, dying at the full period of gestation, may (i) remain in the abdomen without occa- sioning inconvenience; (2) may induce suppurative ulceration and spon- taneous evulsion ; or (3) may produce such constitutional irritation as to kill the mother before any process of evulsion has commenced. In twenty-one of 102 cases, the foetus remained quiescent in the abdomen to the end of life. In thirteen cases, the mother died without having been relieved of the foetus, either by natural processes or surgical interference. In sixteen cases, spontaneous ulceration through the abdominal wall and evacuation took place ; of these, fourteen recovered, two died. In thirteen cases, the foetus was removed by surgical operation after fistula had formed ; of these, ten recovered, one died, and one was still under treatment. Of sixteen cases in which primary abdominal section was made, no fistula having formed, seven recovered, and nine died. In twenty-three cases there was spontaneous expulsion of the fcetus by ulceration either into the vagina or rectum (bones sometimes removed by surgeon) ; of these, twenty recovered, and three died. The author concludes, from an analysis of these cases, that the facts in favour of the secondary abdominal section are conclusive; on the other hand, where the foetus has been dead some time, and no evi- dence of suppuration is present, lie is of opinion that the facts ad- duced teach us that the proper course is to wait until spontaneous ulceration has occurred, and there is a probability that adhesions have been set up. Lastly, the facts stated show that it is proper to leave the placenta to be detached spontaneously, unless it be found quite loose. Mattel—On the Different Modes of Termination of Old Extra-uterine Pregnancies, and their Treatment; Examination of 100 recorded Cases, ofiohich one is Original. Gaz. Hop., Sept. 13, 18, i860. In the case observed by Mattei the pregnancy dated from four years ago, and the autopsy confirmed the diagnosis formerly made. A com- munication had been formed between the cyst and the intestine. The contents of the cyst were in a very fetid condition. Di*. Stutter.—Case of Extra-uterine Fcetation, in which the Child was Successfully Removed by Abdominal Section. Med. Times and Gaz., July 21, i860, p. 55. In Stutter's case, an operation for the removal of the fcetus was per- formed ahout five weeks after its supposed death. After the escape of a large quantity of offensive fluid from the opening made, the fcetus, weigh- ing five and a half pounds and in a decomposing state, was removed. The placenta was removed on the fifth day. The patient recovered. Dr. Ramsbotjiaji and Mr. Adams.—Case of Extra-uterine Gestation, in which Gastrotomy was Performed Six Months after the Death of a nearly Full-grown Foetus. Lancet, July 14th, i860, p. 32. In Ranisbotham and Adams' case, the operation of gastrotomy was per- formed six months after the death of the fcetus, which had arrived at, or nearly, the full period of gestation. The cyst containing the fcetus was adherent to the abdominal wall anteriorly and to the right. The fcetus848 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. was removed, the placenta left with the cord hanging from the wound which was otherwise closed. The patient did well. Dr. Braxton Hicks.—Remarks on Two Cases of Extra-uterine Fee- tation. Guy's llosp. Rep., i860, p. 272. Two Cases of Extra-uterine Pregnane]/, Med. Times and Gaz., Aw. nth, i860, p. 135. Francis Whitwell.—Case of Extra-uterine Fcetution. Brit. Med. Journ., March 24th, 1860, p. 225. C. G. Marshall.—Case of Extra-uterine Fcetation. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 1, 1860, p. 685. Goodbrake.—Extra-uterine Pregnancy continuing Three Years and Six Months; Foetus removed by Gastrotoniy. Bost. Med. and Surg. Journ., i860. Brit, and For. Quart. Rev., Oct., i860, p. 552. The cord, placenta, and as much of the sac as possible, were removed, as well as the fcetus. Dr. Drage.— Case of Extra-uterine Pregnancy. Obst.Traus., vol. ii, p. 2^4. Rupin.—Double Extra-uterine Fcetation. Gaz. H6p.,Feb. 7th, i860. In Rupin's curious case, one foetus was extracted during life from a cyst projecting into the vagina in front, death following from haeinor- rhage. The remains of another fcetus were found in the cyst after death. The fcetus extracted was the size of six, the other of four, months. Dr. Ramsbotham.—Extra-uterine Floatation. Med. Times and Gaz., July 28th, i860, p. 92. Dr. Ramsbotham states, that since 1851 he has met with three instances of this deviation—in all sixteen. In four of the sixteen, death occurred from rupture of cyst and haemorrhage ; in six, death during suppurative process; five recovered ; and in one, result not known. Prof. Crede\—Case of Extra-uterine Pregnancy. Mon. f. Geb., 1859, vol. iii, p. 292. Canst., vol. iv, p. 459. Mr. Adams (for Dr. Allen).—Case of Tubarian Pregnancy terminating Fatally between the Fourth and Fifth Months. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 184. Sydney Jones.— Case of Extra-uterine Fcetation, in which the Foetus was retained Fifteen Years in the Abdomen of the Mother. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 182. Da Silva Lima.— Case of Extra-uterine Pregnancy. Gazeta Med. de Lisboa, March 1, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., May 12th; i860. Dr. Sanders.—Tubal Pregnancy. Fdiub. Med. Journ., July i860, p. 76. Snuders.—Tubal Pregnancy (?) on the Left Side; Premature Death, and Expulsion of the Putrefied Ocum ; Peritonitis and Gangrene. Nederl. Tijdsch., 1859, April, p. 229. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 193. Dr. Robert Lee.—History of an Additional Case of Tubal Gestation. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliii, p. 1. The patient died from htemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity. The blood hud escaped from an opening in the left Fallopian tube, which con- tained an ovum. No trace of decidua could be discovered lining thePREGNANCY. 348 cavity of the uterus. There was no suspicion of pregnancy, as the cata- meuia were present. H. Grace.—Case of Fallopian Pregnancy. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 48. Kbatjs.—Case of Tubal Pregnancy. Allg. Wien. Med. Zt., 28, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 197. Timothy Holmes.—Account of a Fresh Dissection of a Preparation of Tubal Gestation, described by the late Dr. John Clarke (with plate). Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliii, p. 373. Mr. Holmes finds that, in addition to the amnion and chorion already described, there is a third membrane surrounding the ovum in the tube. This third membrane is separable into two layers, and does not form part of the wall of the tube. Prof. Virchow.—Pregnancy in a Rudimentary Cornu. Mon. f. Geb., March and April, i860, p. 176. The woman, set. 27, died suddenly, with symptoms of rupture. Willigk.—On Ovarian Pregnancy. Prag. Viertel. 63, p. 79. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 198. The author discusses the contested question as to the possibility of ovarian pregnancy. Many cases have been described erroneously as cases of ovarian pregnancy, their microscopic examination having been omitted. Thus, three cases described as such in the Museum at Olmiitz were found by him to belong to this category. What were supposed to be chorion villi were shown, by microscopic examination, to be nothing of the kind. Some of the most interesting cases on record are then passed in review, the general conclusion drawn from their critical examination being, that they are not perfectly reliable as cases of ovarian pregnancy. Lastly, the author describes a preparation in the Olmiitz Museum in which the diagnosis of ovarian pregnancy appears to be supported by all necessary exactness. A fcetal cyst, seven centimetres long, is situated in the left broad ligament, containing a fcetus of about three months. There was a rent in its anterior part. The ovary on this side, five centimetres long, was intimately adherent to the sac, and the stroma of the ovary was clearly traceable from the one to the other. Rob. Hardey.—Case of Abnormal Gestation. Obst.Trans., vol. ii, p. 79. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PELVIS. Simon Thomas (Leyden).—The Origin of the Obliquely Distorted Pelvis in Anchylosis of one Sacro-iliac Synchondrosis. Neder. Tijdsch., 1859, p. 277. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 60. The author examines the validity of Naegele's opinion that the obliquely distorted pelvis originates in a " vitium primse conformationis." Having examined the recorded cases, he finds that in by far the greater number there were evident traces of former disease of the bones; or, at all events, it was known that an affection of the pelvic bones had been present. The imperfect development of the affected half of the sacrum, ThomasB3SP0ET ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. "urges, is no proof of original defective development, anchylosis in other parts being accompanied by malformations of the affected bones. The very intimate nature of the anchylosis between the sacrum and ilium, not only externally but within, proves that the parts anchylosed were origi- nally separate. Examining, by section and otherwise, specimens of pelves so distorted, lie finds that the epiphysis of the sacrum is present, recog- nised by its more compact structure on section. The anchylosis which has the effect of giving rise to the obliquely distorted pelvis arises, the author believes, from inflammation of the articulation, proved by Lusehka to be a true joint. Dr. Robert Barnes.—On Asymmetrical Distortion of the Pelvis, I he result of Unequal Length of the Legs. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 314. In this case there was oblique distortion of the pelvis. A first labour had been terminated by craniotomy, the second by the forceps. The left leg had been fractured at the ankle in childhood, and was an inch shorter than the right. The distortion of the pelvis resulted from the unequal force of the muscles of the leg. With reference to the mode of delivery to be adopted in such a case, the author believes that the be*t plan would be to turn the child so as to bring the occipital or larger end of the head into relation with the right or more capacious half of the pelvis, instead of attempting to drag it through by forceps with the occiput directed to the contracted side of the pelvis, or of destroying the child. Schmitz.—Labour complicated with Osteomalakial Pelvis.—Scauzoni's Beitr., vol.iv, i860. At the end of the fifth pregnancy, the pelvis was found so contracted that the forefinger could hardly be introduced, and the Caesarcan section was contemplated. On the following day, strong pains set in, and the head advanced, separating the soft, pliant bones of the pelvis, and with the help of ergot the child (still-born) was delivered. Recovery followed at the end of twelve days. Breslau.—A New Case of Hulisteresis Cerea. Deut. KL, Sep., 1839. N. Y. Journ. Med., May, i860, p. 416.' The pubic bones were so approximated, that examination was diffi- cult; but on introducing two fingers, the bones were easily moved asunder, their substance being soft and pliant. The promontory of the sacrum protruded inwards considerably. The decision to induce prema- ture labour was anticipated by nature, and a dead child born without difficulty; the presentation pelvic. The pliability of the bones disap- peared under treatment, and two months afterwards the patient was materially better. Prof. E. Martin.—On Podnlic Version as a Mode of Delivery of the Child in Contracted Pelvis. Mon. f. Geb., Jan. i860, p. 16. The question discussed by Martin is :—The pelvis being contracted, the head presenting, the child alive, but delivery impossible without ditr.ir.- ishing the head, what is the proper treatment ? The author considers that the treatment advocated by many authorities, viz., turning on the feet, in preference to the use of the forceps or lessening of the head, cannot be accepted in its entirety. In certain cases, turning is a rational proceeding, as in cases of asymmetrically narrowed pelvis, more capa-345 PREGNANCY. cions on one side than the other, and the thickest part of the skull pre- senting in the narrowest part of the pelvis. It is this which accounts for the curious fact that a woman with deformed pelvis may at one time be delivered easily, and at another time with serious difficulty. In the equally contracted pelvis, in the transversely contracted pelvis, or in cases where the contraction affects the conjugate diameter alone, turning is of no assistance. When urning on the feet is contemplated, a perfect diagno- sis of the diameters of the pelvis must bs made out; and the position of the child, and the fact of its being still alive or the reverse, carefully ascer- tained. The operation is contra-indicated when the uterus has been long contracted closely on the child, the waters having some time escaped ; and when the head has been long impacted low down in the narrow pelvis. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE UTERUS. Chas. D. Arnott.—On what is commonly called " Rigidity of the Os Uteri." Lancet, Dec. 17, i860, p. 484. Mutcalfe.—Occlusion of the Os Uteri during Labour. Louisville Med. Journ., March. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, i860, p. 719. Prof. v. Siebqld.—Closure of the Os Uteri as an Impediment to Delivery. Mon. f. Geb., 1859, vol. xiv, p. 96. A case of labour is related, that of a primipara, in whom the os uteri was for a time impervious, and the uterus enclosing the head mistaken for the bladder of membranes. The finger was at last introduced into the os uteri, and the labour soon after concluded. Abeille.—Some Reflections on Rigidity of the Os Uteri during Parturi- tion, and the Means of Remedying the same. Gaz. Hop., July io, i860. TUMOURS EXTERNAL TO UTERUS, IMPEDING DELIVERY. Noeggeratii.—Dystocia caused by an Incarcerated Ovarian Tumour. With Remarks. N. Y. Journ. Med., March, i860, p. 200. TOO GREAT RAPIDITY OF LABOUR. Dr. P00LE.—Rapid Labour. Lancet, Dec. 22, i860, p. 616. Olsiiausen.— Cases of Sudden Birth, with Dropping of the Child. Mon. f. Geb., July 1860, p. 33. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 1, i860, p. 219. Four cases are related in which birth took place suddenly, and the child fell, the funis being torn through in all the cases. In'two cases the cranium was fissured in consequence of the injury received. In one case only was there any considerable hemorrhage Irom the funis. In all, the children were smaller than usual. UNUSUAL CONDITIONS ON THE PART OF THE CHILD. Plural Births. Dessauer.—Statistics of Plural Births. Mon. Bl. f. Med. Stat., i8?q Jul. Sclimidt, vol. 107, p. 49. '* y>3-t6 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Prof, von Sieuold.~-0/i Twin Births. Mon. f. Geb., vol. xiv, p. 401. Med. Times and Gaz., Mny <J, i860, p. 4152. Hak.—Statistics of Twin Births. Aertz. Mitt. ft. Baden, 1859, p. 13. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 50. Dunal.— On Triple Pregnancies. 8vo., Paris, i860, pp. 64. Case of Triplets. Lancet, July 28, i860, p. ioo. Multiple Births {Quadruplets). Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 18, i860, P- I55- H. G. Times.—Case of Quadruple Births. Rep. of Obst. Soc. of Lond., Lancet, Oct. 13, p. 360. UNNATURAL PRESENTATIONS. Keller.—Case of Face Presentation ; Men to-sacral Position ; Delivery ■without change of Position. Am. Med. Jour., April, i860, p. 366. The author appears to be surprised that delivery occurred in this case without artificial assistance. Prof. Von Siebold.—On Face Prese?itations. Mon. f. Geb., xiii, p. 327. Med. Times and Gaz., April 21, i860, p. 412. Siebold met with fifteen face presentations in 3050 cases. All were left to nature, and twelve children lived ; three were born dead. Helly on Face Presentations. (See p. 358.) Spaeth.—On Frontal Presentations. Ztscht. f. prak. Heilk., 26, 27, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 64. In 14,424 births, seven frontal presentations were noticed ; only one case was that of a primiparaj only three children were born alive; in two cases perforation was necessary, one was still-born after tedious labour, and one died soon after delivery; of the mothers, all but one recovered ; the face was turned to the front in all the cases. Dr. Leishman.—Obstetric Case. Glasg. Med. Jour., Jan., i860, p. 471. Edmond Nugent.—Notes of a Case of Spontaneous Evolution of the Fcetus. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., March 15, i860, p. 84. Dr. Hodges.—Case of Spontaneous Evolution of the Foetus in Utero. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 303. Dr. Weir.—Case of Locked Twins. Proc. of Ed. Obst. Soc. Ed. Med. Jour., Nov., i860, p. 478. L£on Sorbets.—Malformation of the Pelvis, Prolapsus of the Umbilical Curd, and Complete Arm-presentation ; Death of the Foetus; Podalic Version. Gaz. Hop., Jan. 26, i860. diseases, malformations, etc., of the child, impeding labour. Duparque.—Memoir on the Retention of Urine in the Fcetus, in conse- quence of the Imperforate Condition of the Excretory Canals. 8vo., Paris, i860, pp. 16. (Reprintof a Memoir published in 1S42.) The case of Duparque, recorded in 1842, occurred in 1840, andPREGNANCY. 847 resembled, in all essential particulars, the others more recently recorded by Depaul. Depaul.—On littention of Urine in the Fcetus as a Cause of Obstructed Labour. Gaz. Hebd., May 18, 25, June 8, i860. Dipaul contends that the functions of the kidneys become established at an early period of foetal life, the urine passing into the liquor amnii; and he calls attention to the fact that when, from malformation or any obstacle, the urine is prevented escaping in this manner, the bladder may become so distended as to obstruct delivery. The proper treatment of such cases is puncture of the distended bladder at the seat of the funis. Depaul cites at length a case observed by himself, in which the head and one arm had been detached by a midwife in the attempt to deliver. A large fluctuating tumour, which proved to be the distended bladder, was emptied of five pints of fluid, and the labour then completed. Four other analogous cases are quoted. Dreissigacker.—Difficult Labour : Twins adherent by the Thoracic and Abdominal Surfaces. Allg. "Wien. Med. Ztg., 39, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 66. Schoenfeld.—A Case of Twins. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 18^9. Schmidt, June, vol. 106, 307. Dr. Meadows.—Delivery of a Living Child, weighing upwards of Eighteen Pounds. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 4, i860, p. 105. The author states that this is the largest child ever born alive. The child presented by the breech, and died suddenly four hours after delivery. Extreme length 32 inches, circumference of head 17^ inches. jACaOEMIER.—On the Volume of the Thorax and Shoulders of the Foetus, considered as cause of Dystocia in cases of Cephalic Presenta- tion. Gaz. Hebd., Oct. 5, 12, 26, i860. ABNORMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PLACENTA, F(ETAL APPENDAGES, ETC. Dr. J. Hall Davis.—Double Battledoor Placenta, with a Single Um- bilical Cord, connected ivith one Child. Obst. Trans., vol.ii, p. 273. Kuenecke.—A Case of Placenta Prcevia Succenturiata. Mon f Geb May, 1859. ' Dr. John W. Ogle— Large Mass within the Cavity of the Uterus, sup- posed to be a Fibrous Tumour, but which proved to be formed by Retained Placenta and Foetal Membranes. Trans. Path. Soc vol. xi, p. 179. Wegsciieideu.—Case of Placenta Prcevia. Mon. f. Geb., Jan., i860. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 188. This case is remarkable from the fact that death occurred during labour, without any apparently sufficient cause: child also born dead. The loss of blood had been trifling, and after death no pathological alteration was detected, heyond fatty degeneration of the heart. The author believes that, with this condition of the heart, the trifling loss of blood which occurred was the cause of the fatal collapse. There had been haemorrhage the previous day. The presentation of the placenta was central ■ the woman had had eight pregnancies quickly succeeding each other.848 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, BIO. Dr. Wardell.—Placenta Prcevia. Lnncet, Aug. n, i860, p. 140. In Wardcll's case, the patient (primipara) had lost much hlood. Death took place after version and delivery or' a still-born child. The placenta was only separated enough to admit the hand. Dr. Armstrong.—On certain Forms of Uterine Ilecmorrhage occurring at or near the Full Term of Gestation. Brit. Med. Jour., Dec. 29th, i860, p. 1012. J. B. Carter.—Treatment of Retained Placenta. Lancet, Aug. 25th, 1860, p. 198. Dr. Halliday.—Retained Placenta. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., May 1st, i860, p. 136. Ulrich.—Hcemorrliage some time after Delivery, apparently produced by a Retained Portion of the Placenta ; Death in Five Months ; Ulcera- tion of the Uterine Tissue, and Perforation at the Placental Site. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., i860. Deluaye.—Medico-chirurgical Observations on Morbid Adhesion of the Placenta; severe Accidents {Traumatic Metritis, Puerperal Fever, $'c), which may follow its Sudden and Forcible Extraction. Jour, de Med. de Brux., Sep., 1859, p. 215. Remarks on Abortion. Mon. f. Geb., vol. xiv, 1859, p. 180. Dr. Graily Hewitt.—Hydatidiform Degeneration of the Ovum. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 112. With plate. The specimen resembled one described by the author in vol. i of the ' Obstetrical Transactions,' i. e., it was about the same age ; it had, however, remained much longer in the uterus; some of the vesicles were as large as grapes. Dr. Routii.— Case of Hydatidiform Degeneration of the Ovum. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 242. Devilliers.— Researches on Shortness and Compression of the Umbilical Cord. Gaz. Hop., Nov. 3, i860. Devilliers finds that when shortness of the cord is present, one fifth of the children die. He gives several signs indicative of the presence of this condition. obstetrical accidents. Sudden Death in Labour. Depaul.—Death occurring Half a Minute after the Penetration of Air into the Uterine Sinuses. Lancet, July 21st, i860, p. 64. Depaul related, at a meeting of the Surgical Society of Paris, a case in which the douche was used for the purpose of inducing premature labour. A gurgling noise, indicating the presence of air, attended the use of the instrument, and the woman suddenly died. Air escaped in cutting into the uterus (for the purpose of extracting the child by the post-mortem Csesarcati section) ; the uterine tissue was bright red, and the blood frothy. A. K. Gardner.—Sudden Death during Labour. Amer. Med. Times, June 2d, i860. Two cases are related of women in labour. One woman was suddenly849 OBSTETRICAL ACCIDENTS. seized with coma, difficult respiration, with bloody expectoration, and died in fifteen minutes. The other had much the same symptoms as regards the lungs, but no coma. Both were largely bled. The second recovered. In the first case the author considered that pulmonary apoplexy was present. No autopsy. J. C. Dalton, Jun.—Entry of Air into the Veins after Parturition. Am. Med. Month., June, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 22d, i860, P- 743- The author mentions a case in which a gutta-percha catheter was used to rupture the membranes and procure abortion. The patient fell back and died, and air was found in the veins and heart; and it was believed by the surgeon that air had been blown in through the catheter, in order to produce the desired effect. Concealed Accidental Hcemorrhage. Henry James. — Report of Two Cases of Concealed Accidental Uterine Hcemorrhage. Lancet, Nov. 3, i860, p. 428. Mr. James relates two cases of concealed accidental haemorrhage, in one of which, however, there was external haemorrhage. In both ergot and brandy were given, and in both the membranes were ruptured arti- ficially. Result favorable in both cases. Dr. Braxton Hicks.— On Concealed Accidental Hcemorrhage during the latter Months of Pregnancy and Labour. Obst. Trans., vol.ii, p. 53. Dr. Braxton Hicks analyses twenty-three cases in which concealed acci- dental haemorrhage (a rare and, as yet, hardly recoguised obstetrical acci- dent) occurred near the end of pregnancy. The symptoms of this often fatal accident were very similar in each. If there be syncope, if the uterus be tense and enlarging, the outline of the foetus indistinct, the liquor amnii having escaped, the occurrence of this form of haemorrhage is to be suspected. If there be sufficient power, the modern treatment for accidental haemorrhage is applicable ; in other cases, support, pressure, and excitation of the uterus are the means recommended. Dr. Lowes.—Detachment of the Placenta. Med. Times and Gaz., June 16, i860, p. 609. A case of concealed accidental haemorrhage. Post-Partum Hcemorrhage. J. Gaillard Thomas.—Lectures on Post-Partum Hcemorrhage; its Prevention. N. Y. Journ. Med., Jan. and March, i860, pp. 80 and 211. The causes of post-partum haemorrhage are,—1, inertia uteri • 2 uterine exhaustion ; 3, sudden evacuation of its contents ; 4, adherent placenta ; 5, distension of uterus by blood ; 6, mental emotion ; 7, an excited state of the circulation. The rules to be followed with a view to its prevention are—1, to allow the body of the child to be expelled by the natural efforts; 2, to firmly compress the uterus and follow the child down in its birth; to hold the uterus constantly in the hand until the bandage is applied ; 4, never to apply the bandage until the placenta is delivered ; 5, to remove the placenta, if detached within twenty minutes • 6, to avoid Btimulants during delivery ; 7, never to leave the chamber^50 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. for an hour after delivery ; 8, to imply the child to the breast before leaving the house; p, to enjoin perfect quiet and exclusion of visitors- 10, it haemorrhage is anticipated, to give ergot as the head is passing the pennreum. 1 b Dr. W. Newman.—The Management of the Placenta. Brit. Med. Journ May 12, i860, p. 356. Immediately after the expulsion of the child, pressure is made on the uterus by means of the hand, and the pressure maintained until the uterus is reduced m bulk, and the coagula, together with the placenta, are expelled. The due contraction of the uterus is thus ensured, together with the expulsion of coagula ; and post-partum haemorrhage and hour-glass contraction are prevented. Post-PartumHamorrhage.—'Dr. Wardell; Lancet, July 21, i860, p. 71. Rich. Mauley ; Lancet, July 28, i860, p. 96. J. Higginbottom ; Lancet, Aug. 4, i860, p. 122. C. Rothwell, Dr. Smallman; Lancet, Aug. 18, i860, p. 173. R. H. Bowness, Henry James, Geo. Duplex, G. H. R.; Lancet, Aug. 11, 1860, p. 148. Dr. C. Taylor, H. B. Curtis; Lancet, Sept. 1, i860, p. 222. Thos. Chavasse, R. W. Lammiman ; Lancet, Aus. 25, i860, p. 196. J. K. Spender.—Injection of Iced Water into the Cavity of the Uterus in Post-Par turn Hemorrhage. Lancet, July 14, 1869, p. 47. Charrieks.—After-treatment in Puerperal Haemorrhages; Utility of Wine Clysters and Opium. Bull, de Ther., Aug. 1859, I54- Schmidt, vol. ioj, p. 316. Prof. E. Martin.—On the Transfusion of Blood in cases of Post-Partum Hemorrhage. Berlin, Hirschwald, 8vo, pp. 91. Schmidt, vol. 106, P- 354- The author relates a case, observed by himself, in which the transfusion was successful. He gives a tabular account of fifty-seven cases of transfusion in recently delivered women, of whom forty-five recovered. In the oiher twelve cases, the death occurred from diseases in no way connected with the operation. The author does not follow the plan suggested by Mfiller, of de- priving the blood of its fibrin by means of whipping. Indications for the operation are extreme anaemia, whiteness of the skin, cold extremities, small, hardly to be detected pulse, faintness, unre- strainable vomiting ; when these are present, the time for the operation has arrived. The apparatus to be used is as simple as possible. A smal" curved canula and trochar to open the veins, and through which to inject the blood, and a small 2-oz. glass syringe, are the instruments requited. The canula has a funnel-shaped mouth, covered with caoutchouc, to receive the blood. The injection must be effected slowly. The blood to be used, is that of a healthy man or of a healthy non-excitable woman. Rupture and Laceration of the Uterus. Paulli.— Cases of Rupture of the Uterus. Bibl. for Lseger, vol. xiii, 215. Schmidt, vol. 117, p. 191. Dr. Okm erou .—An Account of a Case of Rupture of the Uterus during Labour, in connexion with Follicular Disease of the Cervix Uteri and Consecutive Fibrous Degeneration of the Muscular Tissue. Lancet, Sept. 29, i860, p. 306.OBSTETRICAL ACCIDENTS. 851 Dr. Aldrtdge.— Case of Rupture of the Uterus, Lancet, June p, i860, IOMSPON.—Rupture of the Uterus at the Fourth Month of Pregnancy. Brit. Med, Journ., Dec. 29, i860, 1019. Dr. Herbert BauKBB.—Annular Laceration of the Cervix Uteri. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p.329- . , In a case related, an almost complete ring of uterine substance sepa- rated from the body of tbe uterus ; the child passing out, not through the os, but through the laceration of the cervix of the uterus. Labour had lasted three days when the author was called in. Delivery was effected by craniotomy. HoBACE Nelson.—Lingering Labour; Cystocele and Puncture of the Bladder; Delivery by Craniotomy; Cure of the Vesical Fistula through Remedial'Measures alone. Brit. Amer. Jour., Sept., i860, p. 385, and Oct., p. 433. Laceration of the Perinceum. Dr. Leishman.—Laceration of the Perinceum in Labour. Glasg. Med. Journ., Jan., i860, p. 410. The author premises his observations by an account of the practice of various obstetric authorities as regards the treatment of the perinseum during labour. The causes of perinseal laceration are—1, Deformities of the pelvis, causing the head to descend too low before the extension move- ment under the pubic arch begins; 2, fcetal deformity, or mal-presentation; 3, rigidity of the perinseuin and ostium vaginae; 4, too great rapidity of labour ; 5, injudicious or unskilful use of instruments ; 6, occlusion of the vaginal orifice by hymen; 7, fatty deposition in, or degeneration of, the perinseum ; 8, the mechanical support of the perinaeum. Pressure from the outside prevents, it is contended, the lateral portions of the perinseum from bearing their own share of the tension ; it also subjects a part already on the stretch to an injurious amount of pressure. Again, the pressure of the hand throws the muscles of the perinseum into contraction. Statistics show that lacerations occur more frequently when artificial sup- port is most, practised, as on the Continent. He recommends, in cases where it is desirable to retard the progress of the head, that during the last pains the woman should be made to hold the mouth open, when the expulsive strain cannot long be continued; that lubrication be employed in cases of rigidity of the perinseum, and that pressure be made by the fingers against the head itself. Firm pressure against the sacrum is also recommended. Metallic sutures are to be employed, should the perinaeum be torn. On Supporting the Perinaum.—Samuel Smith; Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 25, i860, p. 157. Dr. R. Uvedale W est ; Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. 25, i860, p. 157, March 24, p. 233. G. E. Nicholas ; Brit. Med. Journ., March 10, i860, p. 196. H. Towle, Brit. Med. Journ., March 10, i860, p. 196. Dr. J. G. Swayne, Brit. Med. Journ., March 10, i860, p. 196. Dr. Snow Beck, Brit. Med. Journ., March 10, i860, p. 196. Tnos. H. Jackson; Brit. Med. Journ., March 24, i860, p. 233. J. M. G.; Brit. Med. Journ., March 17* i860, p. 215.352 ItKPORT ON IRDWXFBBY; ETC. I. BaKEB BboWN.—Case of Ruptured Perinccum, and Birth of the Child between the Os Vagina and Anus. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. jn7 linker Brown relates a case in which, the birth of the child bein* delayed by non-dilatation of the ostium vagina;, the perinaeum gave wav° Rad the child passed completely through the artificial opening. Miscellaneous. Prof. FAYE.—Contributions to Obstetric Pathology. Norsk Mag i8<-q p. 655. Schmidt, vol. io(5, p. 192. ' JJ' Leopold and C red!—Prolapsus of the Membranes of the Ovum filed with Amnionic Fluid. Mod. f. Geb., 1859, vol. xiii, pp. 139 and 141. Death from Bursting of Varices of the Vagina during Labour. Berlin Zeitung, 23, 1859. Med. Times and Gaz., March 24, 1860, p. 299. Heniiy Johnston.—Singular Case oj Inversion of the Urinary Bladder ^ during Pregnancy. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., April 10, i860, p. 120. The patient, set. 20, pregnant about four months, suffered from severe tenesmus, vomiting, and pain. A tumour, soft, the size of a pear, pro- jected downwards, and was at first taken to be the bag of membranes. Finally, it was made out to be the bladder inverted through the meatus urinarius. It was reduced, and the case did well. OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. Induction of Premature Labour. Cohen.—Cases of Artificial Premature Labour. Mon. f. Geb., Sept., 1859. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 189. The following questions are raised in connexion with the reporting of these cases by Cohen:—1, Whether it is preferable to induce pre- mature labour by means of the introduction of the sound, or by intra- uterine injection; 2, whether, in placenta prsevia centralis, there is likely to be less haemorrhage after the production of premature labour, and in a predetermined manner, at the seventh month, than when it is performed in consequence of a momentary necessity; 3, what method is preferable when the use of cutting instruments has been necessary to effect a previous delivery, and there remain considerable cicatrices of the cervix and vagina. In one case related, the use of the sound produced no result, whereas the intra-uterine injection was effectual in inducing labour after a short interval. In answer to the second question, a case is related in which the haemorrhage in connection with early production of artificial labour in placenta prsevia centralis was very trifling; and the deduction is, that in all cases when haemorrhage from placenta prsevia threatens to prove serious, premature labour should be induced artificially. Other conclusions drawn by the author are ; that when the portio vaginalis is very high, the tube to he used for the injection must be eight or nine inches long; and that, where cicatrices are present, the tampon is to be used to induce labour, in preference to other methods. The vagina is to be first dilated, and the dilatation carried gradually upwards. Pehrin.—Case of Induction of Premature Labour. L'Union, 1859, No. 146.OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 353 Riqu vkd —Artificial Premature Labour, without Injury to Mother or Child i Oblique-oval Pelvis, with considerable Contraction. Journ. cle Bord./May, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 63. % _ SghaobRSTROH.—Induction of Premature Labour by the Vaginal Douche. llysriea, 20, p. 779- Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 63. Janzbii.—Artijicial Premature Labour. Aertz. Mit. n. Baden, 6, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 64. Dr. TflORN.—Induction 0/ Premature Labour. Lancet, Aug. nth, 1800, KlRSTEN.—Induction of Premature Labour by means of Catheterization, in a case of Acute (Edema of the Lungs. Mon. f. Geb., 1859, Ap. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 189. TARSITANI.—Artificial Premature Labour j Result Successful for Mother and Child. Naples, 1859, 8vo. pp. 16. Manoury.—Artijicial Premature Labour. Gaz. Med., 1859, p. 45. Canst., vol. iv, p. 469. RBYMANN.—Artificial Premature Labour. Preuss-. Ver. Ztg., 14 and 21, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 469. Incision of Os Uteri. Depaul.— Complete Obliteration of the Cervix Uteri in Pregnancy, and of the Operation necessary under such Circumstances. 8vo., Paris, i860, pp. 47. Dr. Robert L. Macdonnell.—Contributions to Clinical Surgery and Medicine. Two Cases of " Closure of the Womb" Successfully Treated. Brit. Am. Journ., Jan., i860, p. 1. Turning. Dr. Robert Barnes.—A Clinical Examination of the Value of the Opera- tion of Turning in Labour Obstructed through Coarctation of the Pelvic Brim. Lancet, i860, vol. i, pp. 291, 341, 390, 541, and vol. ii, p. 104. Dr. Barnes's inquiry is intended to determine, by the results of practical experience, the question as to the value of turning in cases of pelvic coarctation, where the forceps are inadmissible, and craniotomy is the only other alternative. The argument to be encountered is this : the application of turning being limited to those cases in which the pelvis measures less than 3.25", are we justified, for the sake of the very slender hope of saving the child under such circumstances, in subjecting the mother to the dangers of the operation ? In the first case related, a third pregnancy was terminated favorably to mother and child by premature labour and turning combined, craniotomy having been performed in both the previous labours. The pelvis was so narrow that the child could not liave been delivered in any other way with a like result. In a second case, the conjugate diameter was 3.50", the labour protracted,and craniotomy performed. In the following pregnancy, advice as to premature labour being disregarded, the same difficulty occurred. Turning was performed with success, the author admitting that the forceps might have been successful, but preferring turning, for reasons stated. In a third case recorded, the conjugate diameter was 3", the presentation footling; and, after some 23REPORT OS MIDM'IFETtYj ETC. 854 difficulty, the oxtrnction was effected, the child being dend. Case 4 was a second labour; the labour had lasted twenty hours; the conjugate diameter 3.25", brim kidney-shaped, no foetal pulsation on auscultation, meconium escaping. Turning was performed, and the child, which at first did not breathe, finally recovered. The long forceps could only have been applied in such a direction as to increase the bi-parietal diameter, and increase the disproportion and difficulty. Dr. B EAXTON Ulcus.— On a Arew Jlfethod of Version in Abnormal Labour. Lancet, July 14th and 21st, i860, pp. 28, 55. Dr. Braxton I licks calls attention to a new method of turning in abnormal labour. It is a combination of "external turning,"—a method lately discussed and enlarged upon by Esterle and Martin, and internal manipulation. The internal manipulation is confined to the intro- duction of one finger through the cervix uteri. Then, in the first cephalic position, one finger of the left hand is made to touch the head, and pressure upwards and to the left exerted, while at the same time, by the right hand placed over the fundus uteri, the other extremity of the child is moved downwards and to the right side. The position is thus changed into a transverse one, the knees downwards. The remainder of the operation is then readily completed by hooking the finger round the knee. The advantages of this plan over the old method are avoidance of uterine irritation, of entry of air into the cavity, of liability to rupture of uterus, of much of the distress and pain felt in ordinary plan, of ne- cessity for removing the coat, &c, and-of fatigue and pain to the operator. The membranes, too, need never be ruptured. Six cases are related in which the method of turning above described was adopted, and the manipulations were perfectly successful. Leopold.—J Plan for Facilitating Turning. Mon. f. Geb., vol. xiv, p. 60. Med. Times and Gaz., April 21st, i860, p. 402. Dr. Figg.— On Turning in all Cases of Labour. Med. Times and Gaz. i860, Sept. 8th, 15th, and Oct. 13th and 20th, pp. 23,3, 256, 353, 315- , , . t Dr. Figg starts with the proposition that, in abnormal cases, version possesses advantages over other methods of delivery. He then proceeds to advocate general delivery by turning, and hopes to prove its rationality in its salutary results. His argument, is as follows:—The process of labour, as it occurs in civilised communities, cannot be said to be natural, as is shown by a com- parison of the easy and safe labours in uncivilised communities with the often difficult and dangerous labours of civilised life. If it be granted " that the artificial existence evident around us, superseding the conditions of nature generally, has assumed a special and direct influence over the parturient organs "of the human female, modifying their structure, we must also confess the necessity of artificial measures adapted to the artificial state." Formerly, the author stales, he was in the habit of employing chloro- form during version, believing it essential. Of late the chloroform was more frequently omitted. Of fifty-eight recent cases, the operation was355 OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. attempted without chloroform in forty-two. His practice and its results are detailed in the following words:—"My hand has entered the uterus in every instance. In a few cases I deemed it advisable not to make the effort to turn ; in three I failed, though I made the effort. The mothers all recovered ; one child died before I completed the delivery, I broke the arm of one, and slightly contused the arms of three." His practice is to defer the operation until the pains occur at intervals of eight minutes, and the os dilates to the diameter of a florin. Certain precautionary measures having been taken, and chloroform administered (the latter only when the patient interposes no objection), the right hand is introduced into the vagina, and then into the uterus between the posterior lip of the os and the membranes, the palmar surface of the hand at this time look- ing forwards. The head is now tilted upwards and forwards, and the feet sought for through the membranes. When the feet are both found, they are seized, and simultaneously the membranes ruptured. The feet and nates are forthwith extracted, the alteration of the presentation and the extraction of the lower extremities and nates being simultaneous. When the dorsum of the child is turned backwards, rotation is to be per- formed, if the patient be under chloroform. With regard to the latest period at which recourse can be had to version, it may be performed as long as the os uteri can be felt in its whole circumference by examina- tion with the index finger. With reference to the actual number of cases treated by the author on his system, he states that he has a memorandum of 317 cases, extend- ing over a period of twelve years, and that during the past year he has only lost one infant. Dr. Dill.—On Turning in Labour when the Pelvis is Contracted. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Feb. 1st, i860, p. 46. Fordyce Barker.—Malposition of the Foetus Detected by External Manipulation during Labour. Cephalic Version by the same means successful. Amer. Med. Times, June 2d, i860. Robekt Jones.— Turning as a Substitute for the Forceps, in cases of Narrow Pelvis. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 14th, i860, p. 30. Ccesarean Section. Prof. E. Martin.—On the Ccesarean Section. Mon. f. Geb., Jan. i860, p. 8. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 306. The statistics of the Cesarean section do not faithfully represent the mortality due simply to the operation itself. But for this, the statistics would, Martin believes, appear more favorable. _ As regards the management of the operation, the woman must be kept in good spirits; the operation must be performed when the uterine con- tractions are strong, in order to ensure effective contraction afterwards. The precise seat of the incision is less important than the securing the adapta- tion of the external to the internal wound. The incision must be sufficient not less than 5 inches long. It is irrational to give opium in all cases after the operation. Bleeding is often useful 5 the external use of ice is not always advantageous, internally it is very useful when there is vomiting • clysters for the bowels, and the catheter for the bladder, are necessary In the856 HKl'OKT ON .\[| DWI I'KUY, KTC case of a Recond operation, the incision must be made close (o llie first. Dr. Asiiton.—On a Case of Ccesarean Operation. Lancet, May 5th, i860, p. 440. In Ashton's case of Crcsarean section, the patient had had great lameness and deformity of the left hip for six years. Her last labour, three years ago, was natural, and no evident increase in the deformity had occurred since. When labour supervened, the iscliia were found so approximated that the fingers only could be passed into the vagina; there was haemorrhage, which was arrested by rupturing the membrane*. The presentation was of a hard part, but could not be accurately determined. The contraction of the brim was such, that on the left side only about an inch of space was left; on the right there was more, but here the pre- senting part could not be reached. The child, a male, of average size, was extracted alive, and lived for seven days; the mother died in twenty-five hours. The pelvis was affected witli malacosteon, the bones were soft and pliable (when dried) to a remarkable degree. The sacral promontory pro- jected downwards so much, that from the top of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx was only i\". Bull.—Ccesarean Section at the Hospital at Bergen. Norsk. Mag., 1859, p. 712. Schmidt, vol. cvi, p. 307. E. Wagner.— Perforation of the Fallopian Tube in a Pregnant Woman ; Ccesarean Section after Death. Mon. f. Geb., 1859, Dec. Schmidt, vol. cvii, p. 189. Meissner.—Two Cases of Ccesarean Section. Mon. f. Geb., 1854, Oct. Schmidt, vol. cvii, p. 190, Dr. Fordyce Barker.—Cinical Lecture on the Ccesarean Operation. Am. Med. Times, Nov. 24th, i860. Bonnet.—Seven Months' Pregnancy; Apoplexy; Death of Mother; Ccesarean Operation after Death of Mother. L'Un. Med. de la Gironde, Sept. Gaz. Hebd., Nov. 23, i860. Bourgeois.—On the Ccesarean Section. Ann. de la Soc. de Med. d'Anvers, 49, 6o, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 474. G. Simon. — Ccesarean Section, toith Fatal Result. Mon. f. Geb., vols. xiii, xiv, 1859. Laborie.—Report on Andrieux's Case of Ccesarean Section. 8vo, Paris, 1859, PP- I2- Rizzoli and Verardini. — On Extraction of the Child after the Death of the Mother. Gaz. Med. Ital., 28, 1859. Canst, vol. iv, p. 474. Boucher.—On the Ccesarean Operation after Death. Gaz. Hop., Dec. 20, i860. Diminishing the Size of the Child. Prof Simpson.—On Cranioclasm. Modes of Delivery in Obstructed Labour. Med. Times and Gaz., April 14th, May 19th, June 9th, 1860, pp. 3 to, 491.5^7 • . o 1 j In this lecture Simpson discusses the relative advantages of the modes of delivery in obstructed labour. He believes it to be a fond UtopianOBSTETRICAL 0PERATION3. 357 dream, to suppose that craniotomy in every form can be for ever deleted from the list of obstetrical operations, at the same time admitting that Tyler Smith, in contending for the abolition of craniotomy, has done a great service to humanity, in pointing out its dangers, and in reminding us by what other means we may effect a safe delivery instead. The con- ditions justifying operative diminution of the head are:—i. When the child is dead. 3. When the long forceps have been tried, and have failed. 3. When turning is impossible. 4. When there has been no opportunity of inducing premature labour. The operations of craniotomy, cephalotripsy, and cranioclasm, are then described and com- pared. In the latter operation two instruments are necessary—a perfo- rator, to open the head, and the cranioclast, a thick forceps with handles like the bone forceps, and blades thick, firm, blunt, and strong, and by means of which the base of the foetal skull is broken up, and its passage through the contracted pelvis facilitated. One blade is introduced within, the other without, the skull; the two are then locked, aud the bone is then easily broken across. The instrument may be reapplied once or more, until the necessary degree of mobility of the base of the skull is produced. Hcnxig.—On Perforation and Cephalotripsy. Moil. f. Geb., Jan., 1859. Schmidt, vol. cv, p. 196. Spondli (Zurich).—On Perforation and Cephalotripsy. Mon. f. Geb., May, i860, p. 321. Didot.—Critical Examination of the Clinical Results of the " Forceps- Scie." Gaz. Hebd., March 16th, 23d, and April 27th, 1S60. Didot states that the embryotomy instrument of Van Huevel, of Brussels, named the "forceps-scie," has been employed in fifty-one cases, the mother recovering in forty. The principle on which the instrument is constructed is, Didot states, admirable; he himself has introduced some modifications, and, as he believes, much improved the instrument. The limit of pelvic contraction within which, as Van Huevel stated, embry- otomy was possible by the aid of his instrument, is six centimetres. Didot's instrument can he used when the space is less than this. Many of the objections existing in Van Iluevel's forceps-scie are removed, and the price of the instrument is considerably lowered. T. Gaillahd Thomas.—New Instrument for Performing Craniotomy. Amer. Med. Times, Dec. 22d, i860. The instrument is a steel tube, ten inches, with the handle, thirteen inches, long, ending in a screw, and hiding within it a cutting blade, which is thrown out by the hand of the operator. The inventor states that it possesses many advantages over the perforating scissors generally in use. Tommasi.—On Craniotomy, §-c. Lo Sper. Firenz., iv, 97. Canst., vol. iv, P- 47<>- Prof. Scanzoxi.—On Decapitation and Decapitation Instruments. Wiirz. Med. Ztschr., i, p. 105. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 47. In order to facilitate the performance of decapitation, which Scanzoni prefers to embryulcia, he recommends a nev^form of instrument.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 358 Enlargement of Maternal Passages. Foucault.—Case of Symphysiotomy. Arch. Gen., Nov., i860. The patient wns rachitic, a priniipara \ labour had set in, and the pre- sentation was pelvic. The pelvis was considerably constricted. The lower extremities and body of the child were extracted, but the head could not be made to follow. The symphysis was cut through, and the child extracted stillborn. Recovery of mother. Forceps. Helly.—On the Use of the Forceps in Facial Presentations. Prag. Viert., 1859, vol. lxiii, p. 63. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 194. The greater duration of the labour, in cases of face presentations, depends on the defective relations of the diameters of the head and pelvis. Whereas, after ordinary deliveries, the fronto-occipital measurement of the head is less than the occipito-mental by about 1", after delivery in face presentations, the fronto-occipital diameter was longer than the other in two cases ; equal to it in twelve ; about-}" shorter in thirteen cases; about y shorter in three; and about 1" shorter than the occipito-mental in two cases. Total, thirty-two. The author contends that when the head is situated high in face presentations, the use of the forceps is objectionable, the shape of the instrument is not adapted to the surfaces with which it is necessarily brought into contact, and fatal results to the mother are liable to occur. This objection diminishes as the head is lower in the pelvis. There was no instance of face presentation in the third and fourth positions out of 12,000 cases. Reymann.— Forceps Operation Fatal to the Child. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., 17, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 471. Prof. E. Martin.—On Forceps Operations. Mou. f. Geb., Aug., 1839, p. 81. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 194. Martin states that, in the use of the forceps, traction is the principal thing; pressure is to be regarded as subordinate. The advantages derived from rotation of the head by means of the forceps are dubious. Guenther.—On Rectification of the Position of the Head before Apply- ing the Forcepis. Varges' Ztsch., xiv, p. 2. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 46. Doig.—The Forceps and Perforator Compared. Med. Times and Gaz., July 28th, p. 74. LlZE.—The Choice to be made between the Forceps alone and the Simultaneous Use of the Forceps and Ergot, tvhen the Head of the Foetus is Arrested at the Inferior Strait by the Resistance of the Perinaeum in Primiparee. Gaz. Hop., March 6th, 8th, i860. Briuvjf.lot.—Dystocia; Application of the Forceps; Death of Mother and Child; Consecutive Ccesarean Operation. Gaz. H6p., June 19, i860. Feeds. Bodhaert : Beydlf.r.—On the Vectis. Ann. de la Soc. tie Med. de Gand, Jan., Sept., and Oct., ,4.859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 47.3.OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 359 Bodduert gives the preference to the vectis over the forceps in high positions of the head. Beydler uses the vectis almost exclusively. Extraction of Placenta. hizi.—On the Available Means of Aiding the often very difficult Ex- traction of the Placenta in Abortion at the Third and Fourth Months. Gaz. Hop., Oct. 4th and nth, i860. In order to hasten the detachment of the placenta in such cases, the author recommends the dilatation of the cervix with the finger, and the use of ergot; hut the finger is to be introduced prior to the use of the ergot. Aids in Labour. Robt. Hardey.—On Special Position and the Obstetric Binder as Aids in the Treatment of Impeded Parturition. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, P- 19- . Hardey insists on the great efficacy, in cases of impeded or tardy par- turition, of the sedentary position, combined with the use of the obstetric binder. The patieut is placed sitting on and between two chairs, and is only removed to the bed when the head is on the perinseum. Before adopting this position the bend should be engaged in the pelvis, and the os half dilated. The practice advocated had been followed by the author for many years and with entire success. Braxdeis.—Posture in Presentation of the Funis. Bost. Journ., 62, 379. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 1st, i860, p. 220. Three cases are related to show the advantage of elevating the pelvis by placing the patient on her knees and elbows while reposition of the funis is performed ; the patient to be kept in this position until strong pains come on. Dornseif.—On the Value of the Knee-and-Elbow Position in the Practice of Midwifery. Inaug. Diss. Giessen, i860, pp. 71. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 305. Anesthesia in Midwifery. Prof. Faye (Christiania).—Death rapidly following after a nearly Normal Labour, and Employment of Chloroform. Norsk. Ma"-, for Laeger. Edinb. Med. Jour., Nov., i860, p. 474. Jea UCOURT.—On the Employment of Chloroform in Midwifery. Gaz. Hop., Oct. 30th, i860. Dr. Kidd.—On the Value of Anaesthetic Aid in Midwifery. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 340. Chloroform is peculiarly useful in tedious labours, where the patient requires an interval of rest to renew reflex action and remove the effect of exhaustion. In cases of version, especially where the waters have come away and there is great sensibility of the parts, in forceps cases, and in operative midwifery, the benefits of anaesthesia by chloroform are pointed out. In puerperal convulsions of apoplectic character, or con- nected with albuminuria, its use is secondary. In the hysteric form of«™U BB80BT ON MiDWii Kitv, BIO. convulsion it is contra-indicated. In exhaustion, resulting from hemor- rhage or diarrhoea, also, chloroform is of less service, hut it is invaluable iu exhaustive debility or shock from grent or long-continued pain. Pettigrew.—Chloroform and Instrumental Labour. Lancet, Jan. 7U1, i860, p. 13. Dr. Sktnn icr.—Is Chloroform safe in Midwifery ? Med. Times and Gaz., May 19th, i860, p. 506. Special Remedial Ayenis—Eryot, JJva Ursi. Danyau.—Report to the Academy of Medicine on—1. A Paper by Devilte, ' Statistical Researches on the Action of Eryot of Rye in Partu- rition /' and 2. A Paper by Chrestien (Montpellier) 'On Eryot of Rye in Labour.' Bull, de l'Acad. de Med., May 24th, 1859. DuBREUlLif.—On Inertia of the Uterus and Eryot of Rye. Gaz. Med. de la Gironde, 9, 1859. Gauchet.—Advantayes of Uva Ursi in Tedious Labour. Bull, de Ther., June, 1859, 523. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 319. The author cites a case in which infusion of uva ursi (sixteen grammes to one litre) had an immediate effect in exciting uterine action, and another in which the drug was given a week after labour for two days continuously, the size of the uterus diminishing. STATISTICS. Hofmakn.—Statistical Report of the Obstetric Polyclinic of the Ludwig- Maximilian University of Munich for the Years 1849-59. Prag. Viertel., i860, 3, p. 73. Mardurowicz.—General Results in the Obstetric Clinic of Professor Braun, in Vienna, in the Year 1858. Wieu. Aerzt. Zt., 33, 34, 1859. Schmitt.—Statistical Report on the Lying-in Hospital in Munich from Oct. 1st, 1858, to Sept. 30th, 1859. Aerzt. Intel. Baiersch., No. 45. Mon. f. Geb., May, i860. Prof. Crede.—Report of the Lying-in Hospital at Leipzig, from its Foundation, Feb. 15th, 1810, to Sept. 30th, 1859. Mon. f. Geb., March and April, i860, p. 191. Report of the Vienna Lying-in Hospital for the Year 1857. Vienna, 1859. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., i860, p. 167. Prof. HohL.—Report of the Royal Lying-in Hospital at Halle, and of the Policlinic for Midwifery and Diseases of Women and Children in connexion therewith, for the Year 1856. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., 1860, p. 123. Grenser.—Forty-fourth Report of the Lyiny-in Hospital, Dresden, for the Year 1858. Mon. f. Geb., Jan., i860. Dr. R. Cross.— Obstetric Statistics. Lancet, Sept. 15th, i860, p. 274. Dr. Granville.— On certain Phenomena, Facts, and Calculations, inci- dental to or connected with (he Power and Act of Propagation in Females of the Industrial Classes in the Metropolis ; derived from an Experience extendiuy to upwards of 12,000 Cases carefully ob>erved. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 139.GENERAL TREATISES, ETC. Dr. Archibald IIall.—Statistics of the University Lying-in Hospital, Montreal. Brit. Am. Journ., Feb., May, i860. Dr. Pagan.—Statistics of the Glasgow University Lying-in Hospital, from Nov. 1st, 1852, till Jan. 1st, i860, with Remarks. Glasg. Med. Journ., July, i860, p. 98. The Twenty-fifth Annual Report of the Glasgow Lying-in Hospital. Glasg. Med. Journ., April, i860, p. 117. T. T. Smart.—Obstetric Statistics. Lancet, Oct. 13U), i860, p. 371. Dr. Robert Lee.—Clinical Midwifery. Med. Times and Gaz., i860, vol. i, pp. 139, 417, .595 ; vol. ii, pp. 332, 402. Fuerntuatt. — Operative Midwifery at the Lying-in Hospital at Gralz; its Indications, Methods, and Results. 8vo, Vienna, i860. Brit. and For. Quart. Rev,, Jan., 1861. PAET II.—DISEASES OF WOMEN. ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF FEMALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. GENERAL TREATISES, ETC. Prof. Kcssjiaul.—On the Absence, Malformation, and Doubling of the Uterus; on Superfostation and the Migration of Ova. 8vo, 1859, "YVurzburg, p. 384, with 58 woodcuts. The most important, complete, and extensive work of the kind which has ever appeared on the subject of the malformations of the uterus. Prof. Scanzoni.—On the Continuance of Ovulation during Pregnancy. Scanzoni's Beitr. z. Geb., iv, p. 311. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 304. "While admitting that lie was formerly in error in taking for fresh-burst Graafian follicles what were really only blood-extravasations or purulent infiltrations in the tissue of the ovary, Scanzoni still contends that, although the proof of the continuance of ovulation during pregnancy, viz., the presence of newly burst Graafian vesicles in pregnant women, cannot be adduced, yet there are weighty grounds for the conclusion that a periodic ripening of the ova persists, although this may not be accompanied by actual bursting of the follicle. Prof. Rokitansky.—On Accessory Tubarostice, and on Appendages of the Fallopian Tubes. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 1859, 32. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 186. Otto !Spikgelberg.— On the Development of the Ovarian Follicles and the Ova in Mammalia. Gcitt. Nach., July. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 326. Prof. Rokitansky.—On Abnormal Conditions of the Corpus Imteum. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 1859, 34, 35. Schmidt, vol. 1-07, p. 187. NONAT.—Practical Treatise on the Diseases of the Uterus. 8vo, Paris i860.3152 report on midwifery, etc. Bernutz find Goui'lL.— Medical Clinique on the Diseases of Women. 8vo, Paris, Chamerot, i860, pp. 591, vol. i. This volume contains records of upwards of eighty cases, illustrative of three diseases—retention of the menstrual Becretiou, peri-uterine hieuia- tocelc, and haemorrhage connected with extru-uterine fuHation. Hutin.—On Sterility in the Female Sex. 8vo, Paris, G. Bailliere, 1859, pp. 116. A short, systematic treatise on sterility in the female sex, with practical remarks on the appropriate treatment. Becgiuerel.—Clinical Treatise on the Diseases of the Uterus and its Appendages. With an Atlas of 18 plates and 44 figures. 2 vols. Paris, 1859. Becquerel's work is complete as representing the present state of knowledge in uterine pathology and therapeutics in France. Dr. Gunning S. Bedford. — Clinical Lectures on the Diseases of Women and Children. 6th edition. New York, i860, pp. 653. Dr. Tilt.—On the Influence of Tropical Climates on the Rise, Progress, and Treatment of Uterine Inflammation. Lancet, i860, March 31, May 26, pp. 316, 519. Tilt points out the manner in which the menstrual function becomes deranged in the case of young women going out to India. Liver disease and dysentery tend to produce uterine inflammation; intermittent and remittent fevers, ansemia and debility, all conditions to which European residents in the East are liable, also tend in the same direction. Dr. Tilt.— Contributions to Uterine Pathology. Complications of Uterine Disease; Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Paraplegia. Lancet, 1860, Jan. 14, Feb. 4, pp. 30-112. special diseases. Uterus. Versions, §-c. Virchow.—On Dislocations of the Uterus. Mon. f. Geb., 1859, March and April. Virchow comes to the conclusion that a congenital inequality in the development of the lateral ligaments of the uterus, and particularly of the ovary, is a frequent cause of the anteflexions met with in young women and "those who have not borne children. This conclusion is based on numerous post-mortem examinations of young children. Dr. Tyler Smith.—An Inquiry into the Correctness of the Doctrine of William Hunter in regard to Retroversion or Retroflexion of the Gravid Uterus. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 286. The author disputes the Hunterian doctrine that the chief and exciting cause of complete retroversion is retention of urine and distension of the bladder, and his conviction is that the most common cause of retrover- sion of the gravid uterus is not to be found in the state of the pelvis orSPECIAL DISEASES. 363 the condition of the bladder, but in tbe occurrence of impregnation in the retroverted uterus, and in tbe tendency of tbe organ thus impregnated to grow and develop itself, during the early months of pregnancy, in the retroverted or retroflexed position. The retroversion dates from the verv beginning of pregnancy. The distension of the bladder is an effect, not' n cause, of the displacement. The author relates several cases in which the retroversion in the gravid had been observed to follow retrover- sion in tbe non-gravid state. Dr. Skinner.— Retroversion of the Gravid Uterus. Brit. Med. Journ., i860, pp. 471, 492> 5!7> 87l> s9!> 9°9> 933. 949- , . . Skinner contends that displacement of the uterus backwards is 111 itselt uo great impediment to conception, he having witnessed several cases where conception did take place. In considering the question of retro- version of the uterus after conception, the author has collected, analysed, and commented on sixty-three cases. Gosselin.—Retroversion of the Gravid Uterus at the Fourth Month; Reduction by M. Ne'grier's Plan. Gaz. H6p., Nov. 10, i860. The fingers and thumb having been gradually introduced into the vagina, the fist was closed and pressure upwards exercised. Result successful. MtJENCHMEYER.—Reii-oversio Uteri; Cure by Puncture of the Bladder. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1859, p. 370. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 187. Joseph Rogers.—Retroversion of Gravid Uterus; Difficulty of Dia- gnosis. Brit. Med. Jour., May 19th, i860, p. 381. " Bashful."—Retroversion of the Uterus, and its Spontaneous Adjust- ment; Recovery. Dub. Med. Pr., March 21, i860, p. 236. M all.—Spontaneous Cure of a Retroversion of the Gravid Uterus. Allg. Wien. Med.Ztg., 1859, p. 52. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 187. Dr. Mont.—On Retroflexion of the Unimpregnated Uterus; with Cases Illustrative of its Causes and of a Neiv Mode of Treatment. Edin- burgh Med. Journ., Feb , i860, pp. 701. Moir at first treated retroflexion by tbe use of a straight bougie, the length of the uterine cavity, fitted with a projecting bulb. Latterly he has adopted the expedient of gradually dilating the cervix and cavity of the uterus by sponge-tents, and allowing the organ to contract on wire bougies, covered with gutta percha, gradually reduced iu thickness, and worn in regular series until the contraction is complete. F.vxo.—On Electrisation of the Uterus; on the Possibility of Reposi^ Hon of the Flexed Uterus by its means. L'Union, 1859, 134- Fano relates four cases in which flexion was cured by electricity applied by Legendre and Morin's apparatus. One pole of the hattery is applied to the cervix uteri, the other above tbe pubic symphysis, a little to one side. The application is continued for five minutes, and repeated at intervals. Dr. Charles A. Lee.—A Statistical Inquiry into the Causes, Symptoms, Pathology, and Treatment of Inversion of the Womb. Amer. Med. Journ., Oct. 5, i860, p. 313.*>0* REPORT OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. Bkandt, Martin, Langenbeck. — CW<?« of Inversion of the Uterus. Mount, f. Gi b., vol. xv, pp. 90 nnd 173 ; xvi, p. 11. Med. Times and Gnz., Oct. 27th, i860, p. 414. Bockendahl.— Case of In versio Uteri. Deut. Klin., 1859, V- Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 309. Bkandt.—Two Cases of Inversio Uteri. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., 90. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 309. Ikvin.—A Case of Inversion of the Uterus Successfully Treated. Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jnn. i860, p. 93. Reymann.—Complete Inversion of the Uterus. Pr. Ver. Ztg., i8](j, 16. Canst., vol. iv, p. 462. Woodson.— Complete Inversion of the Uterus at Four Months of Utero- Gestation, Replaced Six Days after the Accident. Am. Med. Jour., . Oct. i860, p. 410. Dr. Keii/ler.—Clinical Reports on the Diseases of Women ; ivith Obser- vations. Ed. Med. Journ., Dec. i860, p. 497. In this report Keiller relates six cases as illustrations of the operative treatment of prolapsus resulting from perinseal laceration, &c. Roy.—A Case of Procidentia Uteri, followed by Violent Metritis and Peritonitis ; Recovery. Amer. Med.-Ch. Rev., Nov. i860, p. 1065. Demarouay.—Note on the Reduction and Cure of Complete Prolapsus of the Uterus by Means of Prosthetic Apparatus. L'Union, 1859, 53- Gaillakd.— Complete Prolapsus of the Uterus; Hephestioraphy ; Cure. Gaz. Hop., Jan. 14, i860. Verneuil.—Historical Glance at the Question of Uterine Prolapsus. Gaz. Hebd., 1859, Nos. 12, 13. Braun.—On the Curability of Prolapsus Uteri by the Galvanic Cautery. Wien. Wohnschr., 1859, 30. Canst., vol. iv, p. 409. Leopold.—Two Cases in which Uterine Pessaries were retained a long time. Mon. f. Geb., May, 1859. Ulrich.— Compression of the Rectum by a Dislocated Uterus, and a Zwanhe's Pessary impacted in the Vagina. Canst., vol. iv, p. 409. Breslau.—On the History of Pessaries. Scan. Beitr., iv, i860. Cervix Uteri; Alresice, §~c. Prof. Rokitansky.—Atresia of the Left Half of an Uterus Sicomis. Wein. Aerzt. Zt., 31. The left half was distended, and its inferior orifice closed. A pouch projected into the vagina at this position. Death occurred from ovaritis and abscess, consequent on menstrual retention. G. Simon.—Operations in Atresia; of the Female Sexual Organs. Mon. f. Geb., vols, xiii and xiv. Hooper.—Accumulated Menstrual Fluid; Imperforate Uterus, ivith De- fective Vagina. Benle's Archiv., i860, p. 50. I. Baker Brown.—Report of a Case of retained Menses from Imper- forate Os Uteri; Operation; Death. Lancet, May 12th, i860, p. 465.SPECIAL DISEASES. 365 Abt.— Atresia of the Uterus. Wurt. Corr. CI., 28, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 312. Dr. Meadows.—Three Cases of Hysterotomy, with Successful Results. Med. Times and Gnz., March 17th, i860, p. 289. Meadows records three cases in which there was dysmenorrhea, con- nected with constriction of the internal os uteri. The strictured part was divided by the hysterotome, and a successful result obtained. Lefebvre. — On Inflammation in Connection with Considerable Elon- gation of the Cervix Uteri. Gaz. Heb., 1859, 11. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 184. Certet.—On the Hypertrophic Elongation of the Cervix Uteri. L'Union Med., 1859, 37. Depaul.—Hypertrophy of the Anterior Lip of the Cervix Uteri ; Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus ; Ecrasement. Gaz. Hop., Feb. 14, i860. J. Martin.—Hypertrophy of the Follicles of the Uterine Cervix. Bull, de Ther., vol. lvi, p. 313. Hard tumours in the parenchyma of the lips of the os uteri, and caused by hypertrophy of the mucous follicles, are, it is stated, more common than is usually supposed. The tumours are round, smooth, non-pediculated ; their surface is somewhat paler than that of the adjacent parts. For the removal of these tumours, Filhos' caustic is recommended. Huguier.—On the Hypertrophic Elongation of the Neck of the Uterus. Mem. de l'Acad. de Med., 1859, p. 279. Schmidt, vol. 106, This important memoir, a short notice of which appeared in the 'Year Book' for 1859, is here printed in extenso, illustrated with numerous well-executed lithographs. Prof. Scakzoni.—On Removal of the Vaginal Rortion for the Cure of Prolapsus Uteri. Scanz. Beitr., vol. iv, p. 329. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 185. Scanzoni has operated in sixteen cases. In nine cases the curved scissors of Siebold were used; in three, the galvano-caustic apparatus; in two, the ecraseur was employed, but the operation could not be com- pleted with it; in two cases, a tonsillotome was used. The ecraseur is in many cases objectionable, owing to the difficulty of controlling the course taken by the chain, and the possibility of implicating the peritoneum. Maissoneuve's " constricteur" is open to the objection that the wire is liable to break. The author thinks highly of the tonsillotome ; each case must, however, be considered by itself, and requires an appropriate treat- ment. Prof. Braun.—On Removal of the Vaginal Portion for the Cure of Pro- lapsus Uteri. Wien. Wohnschr., 1859, 3° and 3l< Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 185. Braun states that in about one out of every ten cases of prolapsus uteri it has been proved that the cervix is abnormally elongated. As a method of removal, Braun prefers the galvano-caustic apparatus.360 ItEPOItT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Uterine Cancer. Dr. Braxton Hicks.—Cauliflower Excrescence of the Os Uteri removed hy the Ecraseur ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov 17th i860, p. 482. ' ' Dr. Alex. R. BlkftON.—-Amputation of the Cervix Uteri for Cancroid Degeneration. Ed. Med. Journ., Dec, i860, p. 1571. Murney.—Chronic {Eroding) Ulceration of the Uterus. Dub. IIosp. Gaz., June 12th, i860, p. 168. Dr. BHIPTOW*.—Alveolar (not Colloid) Cancer of the Uterus. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 178. Riquard.— Uterine Cancer. Journ. de Bord., July, 1859. Schmidt vol. 105, p. 58. Sawyer.—Carcinoma of Uterus ; Extirpation. Am. Med. Journ. July, i860, p. 46. In this case, the abdomen was opened, and the "tumour," viz., the uterus and the so-called carcinomatous growth, removed. The patient died the sixth day after the operation. The tumour had existed for ten years ; the patient's age was forty-three. Fibrous Tumours. Dr. McClintock.— Unusual Case of Uterine Tumour. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., June 1st, i860, p. 166. Guyon.—On Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus. 8vo, Paris, i860 (plate). H. G. Times.—Large Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 33. Dr. Graily Hewitt.—Enormous Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 240. Dr. Gibb.— Virgin Uterus (from a Female aged Fifty Years), with a Bony Tumour attached to its Fundus. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi. Ziemssen.—Spontaneous Elimination of a Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus the Size of a Child's Head; Cure. Virch. Arch., 1859, P- 333* Schmidt, vol. 106, p. ^9. Dr. Swayne.—Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus ; Spontaneous Expulsion of the Tumour during the Third and Fourth Weeks after Delivery. Brit. Med. Journ., May 12th, i860, p. 358. Depaul.— Case of Separation of a Fibrous Uterine Polypus by Means of the Ecraseur. Gaz. Hop., Feb. 14th, i860. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 56. C. Mayer.— Case of Extirpation of a Medullary Sarcomatous (Tumour) from the Cavity of the Uterus. Mon. f. Geb., March, April, 1859. Caust., vol. iv, p. 421. Dr. Priestley.—Fibrous Tumour of Large Size; Enucleation; Death. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 174. Dr. J. Hall Davis.—An Intro-uterine Fibro-plasfic Tumour extensively adherent; Removed by Enucleation. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 17. (With Drawings.) A ligature was-first applied, but the tumour was too large to be affectedSPECIAL DISEASES. 367 by it, and the tumour was then removed by a combined process of tearing and cutting. The patient recovered. Neuroses;' Sympathetic Affections of the Uterus. Btuquet — A Clinical and Therapeutical Treatise on Hysteria. Paris, 1859, 8vo, pp. 724. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 109. Tliis work contains an elaborate account of hysteria, founded for the most part ou personal observation of 430 cases, accounts of 71 of which are incorporated in the text. Bbatj.—Clinical Lecture on Hysteria. Gaz. Hop., July 26th, 31st, i860. Hoppe.—Hip-joint Affections as a Result of Uterine Affections. Pr. Ver. Ztg., iii, p. '2. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 3 to. Prof. ScANZONl.— Urticaria as a Symptom of Irritation of the Female Sexual Organs. Wurz. Med. Zt., vol. i. Edinb. Med. Journ., Oct. 1860, p. 384. The particulars of three cases are given, in each of which the appli- cation of leeches to the cervix uteri, by producing sudden irritation of the female sexual organs, induced an attack of urticaria. Dr. Brown-Sequahd.—Epilepsy Depending on Disorder of Menstruation. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 22d, i860, p. 612. The condition of the patient was very materially improved by the re-establishment of menstruation, which had been absent for some time previously. Menorrhagia. Dr. Roeth.—Four Cases of Menorrhagia treated ly Injection, or Scraping of the Uterus and Injection combined; with Remarks on this Flan of Treatment. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 117. Bouth cites cases to show the efficacy of the combined use of injections and scraping of the internal surface of the uterine cavity in obstinate and otherwise incurable cases of menorrhagia. In order that the operation may be performed safely and conveniently, it is essential that the os uteri be previously well dilated by means of sponge-tents. The " scraper" is not to be too sharp ; the nature of the injections used varied—compound tincture of iodine, tincture of muriate of iron, &c. Pakant. — Encysted Dropsy of the Uterus, reproduced every Three Months; Injection of Iodine; Cure. Gaz. Hop., Aug. 21st, i860. Prof. Scanzoni. — A Case of Periodical Hydruria. Wurzb. Med. Zt., i, p. 95. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 20th, i860, p. 386. Leucorrhcea. Dr. J. Matthews Duncan.—On the Uterine Tjeucorrhaa of Old Women. Edinb. Med. Journ., March, i860, p. 826. Matthews Duncan describes a true "uterine" form of leucorrhcea occur- ring in women who have ceased to menstruate. If retained in the uterus for a time, the discharge acquires a putrid odour, and there is peculiar368 l!i:P()I!T ON .MII)\VI1'1',I!Y, ktc. gliding pain in the loins. The internal os uteri is often found contracted, While the cavity above is dilated. The regular use of internal cauteriza- tion by nitrate of silver is recommended, also irrigation of the cervix and vagina with cold water. FltlCKHOEFFKii.—Schwalbach in its Relations to Chronic Uterine and Vaginal Catarrh. Mon. f. Geb., June, i860, p. 422. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 44. The mineral waters of Schwalbach are said to be of special service in those particular forms of uterine and vaginal catarrh which are not dependent on textural disorders and complications, and which owe their origin to more general causes—aneemia and chlorosis. Cn.vuPENTlER.—Cases of Uterine Diseases Treated by the Sulphurous Thermo-Mineral Waters of Saint Amand (Nord). Journ. de Med. de Brux., Nov., 1859, P- 4,'A Uterine Polypi. Habit.—Cases of Fibrous Polypus of the Uterus. Wien. Aerzt. Zeitsch., iii, p. 12. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 55. Habit's observations refer to twenty-one cases. In fourteen cases an operation was performed. In eleven cases excision was employed ; in two, torsion ; in two, the ligature. Six were cured ; five died of pyaemia. The author concludes that it is nnadvisable to employ excision, if the pedicle is more than half an inch thick. Dr. Johns.— Cases of Uterine Polypi; with Practical Remarhs. Dub. Med. Pr., April 4U1, 1860, p. 268. Blazina (Prague).— On Uterine Polypi. Allg. Wien. Ztg., 1859, 50. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 307. GllAHAM.— Uterine Polypus Treated by Injection of Per chloride of Iron. Am. Med. Monthly, March, i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 8, i860. Dr. Gkaily Hewitt.—Fibro-cystic Growth Expelled from the Uterus. Trans. Path. Soc., vol. xi, p. 173. Velpeau.— On the Harmlessness and Spontaneous Cure of certain Uterine Polypi. Jour, de Med. et Chir. Prat. Edinb. Med. Jour., Feb., 1860, p. 770. Demaiiquay.—Uterine Polypus. L'Union Med., 76, 1859. Dr. M'Clintock.—Spontaneous Cure of Uterine Polypus. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., June 1st, i860, p. 167. Riggler.—Operation on a Uterine Polypus. Aerzt. Mitt, aus Baden, April, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 313. Patient set. 46. The polypus was the size of a goose-egg. By aid of ergot, &c, it was engaged in the os uteri, and the pedicle, short and thick, cut across. Result favorable. Lumpe.—Ligature of a Fibrous Polypus of the Uterus. Wien. Wohnschr., 45> T^59- Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 313. Goldsmith.—Seven Cases of Uterine Polypus, with some Remarhs upon the Treatment. Louisville Med. Journ., April. Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., Sept., i860, p. 90.369 SPECIAL DISEASES. Uluich.—Fibrous Polypus of the Uterus; Excision of the same; Death. Perforation of a Fallopian Dropsy. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., i860, p 8~ Golds'chmidt.—On Fungosities of the Cavity of the Uterus. Stras- bourg, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 420. Tuudeau.—On Granulations of the Lining Membrane of the Uterus. N. 0. Med. and Surg. Journ., Jan., i860. Am. Med.-Cbir. Kev., March, 1860, p. 329. The author describes two varieties—1, small tumours with wide base, soft, easily detached, growing near the Fallopian tubes—cellulo-vascular vege- tations ; 2, pediculated vegetations, of greater density, elastic, smooth, smaller than the first, generally found in the neck and inferior segment of the uterus—cellulo-fibrous vegetations. Peri-uterine Diseases. Dr. M'Clintock.—Case of Peri-uterine Hcematocele. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., June 15th, i860, p. 179. Prof. Braun.—On Peri-uterine Hcematocele and its Treatment. Wien. Aerzt. Zeit., 1 and 4. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 57. The source of the haemorrhage is various—the ovaries, the tubes, the broad ligaments, extra-uterine pregnancy, hsematometra, and reflux of blood through the tubes. The causes of the haemorrhage also various—excess in coitus, bodily movements during menstruation, &c. The blood coagu- lates partly or entirely, and becomes enclosed in a kind of cyst. Quantity varies from a few drachms to several pounds. As regards the diagnosis, it is of assistance to know that it generally occurs during menstruation or after suppression. As regards treatment, puncture from the vagina is considered a judicious method of treatment when the haematocele is recent and not intra-peritoneal. Local applications of cold, leeches, &c, are advisable; purgatives, quinine, iron, &c, internally. Voisin.—Retro-uterine Hcematocele and Non-encysted Effusions of Blood into the Peritoneal Cavity of the Pelvis considered as Accidents of Menstruation. 8vo, Paris, Bailliere et Fils, i860, pp. 368. Voisin recognises only one form of retro-uterine hsematocele—that in which the blood is effused into the peritoneal cavity, there becoming enclosed in a sac. The blood so effused originates, he believes, in an accident of menstruation. The causes of the haemorrhage are—congestion of the Graafian vesicles during menstruation, reflux of blood from the uterus into the tubes, or tubal haemorrhage. The physiological state is favorable to the occurrence of haemorrhage; but the pathological ones render it more liable to occur, such as venous congestion of the ovary, undue sexual excitement, or altered condition of the blood itself. The course, symptoms, and diagnosis of the affection are successively considered, and the histories of thirty-five cases are appended. The work contains all the most recent information on the subject. Gallahd.—Memoir on Spontaneous Peri-uterine Hcematocele. Arch. Gen., Oct., Nov., and Dec, i860. The author offers the results of his researches on the origin, mode of 24370 EBPOM Oy MIDWIFERY, ETC. formntion, nnd anatomical sent of spontaneous peri-uterine hematocele as distinguished from that of accidental or traumatic origin. He is of opinion that, although the occurrence of the spontaneous form, irrespective of conception, may still he admitted, yet in the majority of cases it is far from heing frequent or ordinary. It appears to he produced hy a mechanism which does not in any way differ from that which holds good m the case of extra-uterine pregnancies : the only difference heing, that the ovule, which is fecundated in one case, is not in the other. When conception does not occur, the spontaneous hematocele results from an incomplete or defective migration, whether of the ovule or of the hlood which flows from the ovary after the dehiscence of the Graafian vesicle. The hypothesis thus propounded accords, it is contended, with all the facts observed on the subject. In proof of this statement, several cases and observations are cited. The diagnosis, treatment, &c, of the affection are then systematically discussed. Aran.—On Peri-uterine Inflammation; Symptoms and Treatment. Bull, de Ther., July, August, 1859. A good resume of the symptoms and treatment. Fallopian Tubes. Prof. Sijipson.—On Dropsy and other Diseases of the Fallopian Tubes. Med. Times and Gaz., June 30th, i860. The author considers —1, displacements; 2, hypertrophy; 3, fibroid tumours; 4, carcinoma; 5, tuberculosis ; 6, inflammation; 7, haemor- rhage ; 8, dropsy of the Fallopian tubes. Vocke. — Case of Salpingitis puerperalis. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., iii, p. 4. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 54. Foeuster.—On Peritonitis, the result of Purulent Inflammation of the Fallopian Tubes. Wien. Wohnschr., 1859, 44,45. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 52. Inflammation may affect the Fallopian tuhes in three forms:—1. It proceeds directly from the abdominal entrance of the Fallopian tube to the neighbouring peritoneum. This form is very common: it is produced by ordinary catarrhal inflammation of the raucous membrane of the tube. Adhesions of the tube to the surrounding piirts are the result of it. When the peritonitis exists on both sides, sterility results. 2. Forma- tion of pus and ulceration of the wall of the tube, and discharge of the pus into the abdomen. This occurs but seldom, and almost always during the puerperal state. The author observed two cases in which this accident occurred in the non-puerperal state. 3. The pus formed in the tube passes through the orifice of the latter directly into the abdomen. This occurs more rarely than either of the other varieties. It would appear that such effusion of pus produces peritonitis at the point of escape. Tbe escape of the pus from the tube results from relaxation of the fibres around the mouth of the Fallopian tube; or, as Martin believes, in con- sequence of pressure from without on the distended tube. Siuedey.—On the f requency of Alterations of the Uterine Appendages in Affections called lTterine. 4to, Paris, i860, Dclahaye, pp. 141.SPECIAL DISEASES. 871 Ovaries. John Clay.— Chapters on Diseases of the Ovaries. Translated by per- mission from Khvisch's Clinical Lectures on the Special Pathology and Treatment of the Diseases of Women ; with Notes, and an Appendix on the Operation of Ovariotomy. Svo, Lond., Churchill, i860, pp. 430. The first part of this work is a translation of the portion of Kiwisch's " Klinisclie Vortrage" relating to diseases of the ovaries, from the latest edition by Scanzoni. The translation contains notes by Kiwisch, Scanzoni, and Clay. The appendix on ovariotomy by Clay contains an account of all opera- tions of ovariotomy, of which accounts could be obtained up to February, 1S60. The particulars relating to the cases are all systematically and elaborately tabulated. The number of completed or attempted operations thus collected is 537. In 212 of these a favorable result followed the removal of one or both ovaries. In 183 cases the patients died after removal of one or both ovaries. In twenty-four cases partial excision was performed, with a result of ten recoveries and fourteen deaths. In thirteen cases the tumour was found not to be ovarian. In eighty-two cases the operation was commenced but not proceeded with, owing to the presence of adhesions. In all, thirty-six cases are collected where the operation was commenced on an erroneous diagnosis. Many other interesting statistical details are given. Simon Thomas. — On Simple Ovarian Cysts and their Treatment. Donders' Archiv., vol. ii, part 2. Canst., vol. iv, p. 427. Simon Thomas calls attention anew to an operation for the cure of simple ovarian cysts which has of late fallen into disuse, viz., the punc- ture of the cyst from the vagina, and the maintaining of the aperture thus made patent. Three cases are related in which this method of treat- ment was successfully employed. Disse.—An unusual case of Hydrops Ovarii. Mon. f. Geb., March and April, i860, p. 185. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 307. Dr. Battye.—A Case of Ovarian Tumour, weighing seventy-six and a half ounces, in a Girl aged twelve and a half years, terminating life suddenly by Asphyxia. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 280. Dr. Biustowe.—Cancer of Cystic Ovaries; Cancer of Stomach, Liver, Peritoneum, fyc. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 176. Otto Spiegelberg.—On the Anatomy and Pathology of Ovarian Cysts. Mon. f. Geb., Aug., Sept., 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 426. • Dr. Robert Lee.—On the nature of Ovarian Cysts which contain Teeth, Hair, and Fatty Matter. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliii, r> 03 (with plate). P* V6 Robert Lee, after considering historically the pathology of ovarian cysts containing teeth, hair, &c, relates four cases, in two of which the cyst was in a natural condition, while in the other two it was more or less disorganized by dropsy, cancer, &c. ~372 REPORT ON BtUDWIFBBT. KTC. S. Jas. A. Salter.—C««e 0/ Ovarian Tumour containing Teelh, Hair, fye,, with Remarks. Guy's IIosp. Hep., i860, p. 511. A very complete nml minute description is here given of lite contents of an ovnrinn cyst containing liair, teeth, &c. The author rejects altogether the idea that these growths are the result of impregnation. The answer to the question—What does give rise to these productions? is to be found in the analogy which these formations have to the non- sexual reproduction which is now known to prevail in many of the lower animals, c. g. the aphides in daphnia, in hive-bees, &c.; they are altogether equivalent to virgin-produced "zooids" previous to their detachment from the parent. Wythes.— Account of Remarkable Ovarian Tumours, Am. Med.- Chir. Rev., May i860, p. 478. Dr. Graily Hewitt.—Malignant Disease of the Ovary. Rep. of Obst. Soc. of Lond., Lancet, Nov. 17th, i860, p. 489. FoEitSTEit.—On Primary Carcinoma of the Ovary. Verhand. der Phys.- Med. Gesell. in Wurzh., vol. x, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 428. W. Michell Clarke.—Abscess of the Ovaries. Brit. Med. Journ., May 26th, i860, p. 394. Beraud.—On Variolous Ovaritis (and Orchitis). Arch. Gen., xiii, pp. 274, 557. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 14th, i860, p. 42. Santesson.— Formation of an Abscess externally to the Sacro-iliac Symphysis, in connexion ivith Abscess in the Ovary of the same side. Hygiea, 20, 40. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 59. Washington L. Atlee.—Diagnosis of Ovarian Tumours. Am. Med.- Chir. Rev., March, i860, p. 331. Boinet.—The Differential Diagnosis of Abdominal Tumours and Ovarian Cysts. Gaz. Hebd., 1-10, i860. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 322. John Fox.—Spontaneous Cure of Ovarian Tumour (?) Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 22d, i860, p. 996. Ulrich.—Spontaneous Evacuation of an Ovarian Cyst into the Bladder. Mon. f. Geb., March, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 427. Rigler.—Bursting of an Ovarian Cyst, with Effusion of the Contents into the Abdomen; Resorption; Cure. Wien. Wohnschr., 5, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 314. Huss.— Cure of an Ovarian Tumour. Hygiea, 20, 182. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 52. Worms.— Historical and Critical Study of the Operation of Extirpation of Cystic Tumours of the Ovary. Gaz. Hebd., Oct. 5th, 12th, 26th, and seep, i860. Prof. Gross.—Origin of Ovariotomy; with an account of the Life and Services of the late Dr. Ephraim McDoxvell, of Kentucky. Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., Nov., i860, p. 1028. Prof. Simpson. — On Ovarian Dropsy, its Surgical Treatment. Med; Times and Gaz., Jan. 7th, i860. Injection of Iodine; Galvanism. Ib., Jan. 28th and Feb. 4th, i860. On Ovariotomy. Ib.. March 3d, 10th, and 24th, i860. The author discusses, seriatim, the several methods of treatment, viz., the operation of paracentesis, the formation of a communication between373 SPECIAL DISEASES. the interior of the cyst and the cavity of the peritoneum, the establishing a fistulous communication between the interior of the cyst and a mucous or cutaneous surface, the injection of ovarian cysts with iodine, and ovariotomy. In forty or fifty cases treated by injection, a fatal result occurred once only. The application of galvanism is considered useless, and in some cases dangerous. A comparison is instituted between the mortality from ovariotomy and from other surgical operations (p. 208), and the objections to the operation are considered. The operation of ovariotomy and the best method of performing it are next discussed. Philip Harper.—Ovariotomy; Successful. Brit. Med. Journ., May 26th, i860, p. 394. The patient's age was thirty-two. Injection with iodine had been tried without effect, and it was evident that there were several cysts present. Ovariotomy was performed, and a tumour consisting of several cysts, of various sizes, removed. The case did well. Spencer "Wells. — Twelve Ovarian Cysts and Tumours removed by Ovariotomy. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 169. Spencer Wells.— Multilocidar Ovarian Cyst; Ovariotomy; Cure. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 25th, i860, p. 189. Spencer Wells.—Case of Ovariotomy ; Death from Intestinal Obstruc- tion. Med. Times and Gaz., March 10th, i860, p. 235. The case was fatal forty-six hours after operation, from obstruction of the bowels. A portion of the small intestine had become strangulated by pressure from the peduncle. Spencer "Wells.—Four cases of Ovariotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., August 25th, i860, p. 178. Of the four cases of ovariotomy here treated three recovered, one died. The author attributes his success to the simple after-treatment adopted. Opium is to be given to relieve pain, but only by the rectum. Spencer "Wells.—Case of Ovariotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 1st, 1860, p. 531. The patient set. 53. The tumour removed was composed of one large cyst, capable of containing from forty to fifty pints of fluid, and a number of groups of smaller cysts. The recovery was perfect. This was the twentieth case of this operator. His results are, of twelve hospital cases, eight recoveries and four deaths ; of eight cases in private prac- tice, five recoveries and three deaths. Dr. Tanner.—Larye Colloid Tumour of the Ovary. Rep. of Obst. Soc. of Lond., Lancet, Dec. 15th, i860, p. 585. In this case ovariotomy was successfully performed. Rc-EMEit. — Ovarian Dropsy; Ovariotomy. Am. Med. Journ., April, i860, p. 567. .35t. 38. Tumour weighed 25 lbs. Recovery.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 371 W. V. Wuatislaw.—Successful case of Ovariotomy. Brit. Med. Journ., June 2d, 1860, p. 415. In the case recorded the operator was Mr. Baker Brown; the patient set. 18. The tumour was multilocular. T. B. Curling. — Multilocular Ovarian Cyst, of very large size; Ovariotomy; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., March 3d, i860, p. 219. Patient oet. 18. Tapped three times, many adhesions, long operation. Death sudden, about twenty-four hours after operation. Crosby.—Successful case of Ovariotomy.—Bost. Journ., 162, 77. Med. Times and Gaz., i860, p. 220. A large unilocular cyst. I. Baker Brown.—Multilocular Ovarian Dropsy; Ovariotomy; Re- covery. Med. Circ, Jan. 4th, i860, p. 11. Operation on Dec. 5th, 1859 : on Dec. 28th the patient was convalescent. Previously to the operation of ovariotomy a large cyst had been punctured from the vagina, and five pints of fluid withdrawn. Geo. H. Kidd.—On Ovariotomy. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Feb. 15th, p. 50. Kidd relates a case of ovariotomy, the first operation of the kind in Ireland, and which was fatal in twenty-four hours. The operator was Dr. Clay, of Manchester. Statistical Report on Ovariotomy in English Provincial Hospitals in 1859. Med. Times and Gaz., May 26th, i860, p. 525. One case of ovariotomy is recorded in the Statistical Report in the 1 Medical Times and Gazette.' The patient died four days afterwards. Ridsdale.—Case of Delivery of a Living Child thirteen months after Ovariotomy. Rep. of Obst. Soc. of Loud., Lancet, Dec. 15th, i860, p. 586. Statistical Report on Paracentesis for Ovarian Dropsy in English Pro- vincial Hospitals in 1859. Med. Times and Gaz., May 26th, i860, Six cases of paracentesis for ovarian dropsy in the English provincial hospitals, during 1859, are here recorded. Of the six cases four were relieved, and two died seven and eight days after the operation respectively. Steinthal.—Radical Cure of a case of Ovarian Dropsy by one Puncture. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 427. Emanuel May.—A case of Ovarian Dropsy cured by Tapping and Pressure. Lancet, Dec. 8th, i860, p. 565. The patient, set. 24, was tapped, and a compress and bandage carefully applied: for four years after she remained quite well, and was then lost sight of. I. Baker Brown.—Three cases of Ovarian Dropsy cured by Tapping and Pressure. Med. Soc. of Lond., Lancet, Nov. ,3d, i860, p. 435. Baker Brown reports three cases, in which tapping and pressure were8PJSCIAL UISJSA8ES. 375 used in the treatment of cases of unilocular ovarian dropsy. No return of the swelling had taken place. (Interval since operation, fifteen months, fifteen months, thirteen months, respectively.) Scuh.—On Iodine Injections in Ovarian Cysts. Wien. Aerzt. Zt., 48, 1859. Med. Times and Gaz., June 16th, i860, p. 600. Spencer Wells.—Five cases of Ovarian Cysts successfully treated by Iodine Injection. Med. Times and Gaz., June 2d, i860, p, 549. Of Spencer Wells's five cases of iodine injection two were published last year (see 'Year-Book for 1859'). The three new cases were suc- cessful. A very small quantity (one to two ounces) of a very strong solution of iodine (one scruple of iodine and half a drachm of iodide of potassium to one ounce of water) was used, the greater part allowed to remain. The cases chosen for this operation were cases of unilocular cyst. Uytterhoeven.—Large Ovarian Cyst : Adhesion produced by means of the " Trocart d curseur." J. de M6d. de Brux., June, 1859, p. 375. Adhesion having been produced, and a fistula established, iodine injections were used. The object of the operator—to establish a perma- nent fistula, through which the cyst might empty itself—was effected. Vagina, Bladder, and External Organs of Generation. Rechnitz.—Laceration of the Vagina in consequence of an External Injury. Ungar. Ztsch., 10, 1. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 57. I. Baker Brown.—Record of Nineteen cases of Raptured Perinceum. Lancet, March 3d, April 7th, 1860, pp. 214,342. The author reports a further series of nineteen cases, making sixty- seven in the whole. In two of the latter series death occurred from pyaemia. In the after-treatment of these cases much importance is attached to the administration of nourishment in good quantity : opium is also to be given. Biefel. On Plastic Operations on the Perinceum. Mon. f. Geb., June, i860. Roubaix.—Case of Rupture of the Perinceum, with Prolajisus of the Rectum, treated and cured by Perinceoplasty. J. de M. de Brux., Feb., 1859, p. 139. Morgan.—Case of nearly complete Occlusion of the Vagina successfully treated by Operation. Indian Annals of M. Science, i860, p. 329. Dr. Priestley.—Tumour of the Labia Pudendi. Trans. Path. Soc. vol. xi, p. 168. I)r. Bainbridge.—Case of Enlarged Clitoris. Med. Times and Gaz Jan. 14th, 1860, p. 45. Ward. Epithelial Cancer of the Labium; Excision; Early Return of the Disease in the Glands. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 20th i860 p. 381. ' ' Jonathan Emcm^oa.-Tabular Statement of Fourteen cases of hpdhehal Cancer of the Female Genitals. Med. Times and Gaz Oct. 20th, i860, p. 379.REPORT ON MIDWIFBBY, ETC. 370 These cases form part of a ' Clinical Report on Epithelial Cancer.' In thirteen of the fourteen cases the disease was removed by operation. In eleven of these the patient is stated to have recovered. In two the disease returned. Dr. M'Clintock.—Cancel- (Epithelial) of the External Pudendum. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., June ist, i860, p. 167. Browne.—Case of Hypertrophy of the Clitoris and Nymphce. Dubl. Hosp. Gaz., Feb. ist, i860, p. 45. G. Simon.—Operations on the Female Sexual Organs: a case of Recurrent Sarcomatous Tumours in the Labia Majora. Mon. f. Geb., vols, xiii, xiv. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 53. Capelle.—Enormous Lipoma of the Labia Majora andPerinceum. Joum. de Med. de Brux., Jan., p. 41. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 184. The tumour, which reached to the knee, and measured thirty-three cen- timetres across, and fifty in circumference, had been growing for ten yearB. It was removed, aud the patient (set. 30) recovered. Habit.—Urinary Fistulce in the Female Sex, with especial reference to their Treatment by the Actual Cautery. Wien. Aerzt. Zt., 40, 41, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 435. I. Baker Brown.—Report of Eleven Cases of Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Lancet, Nov. 17th and 24th, Dec. ist, i860. The operations performed were successful in all these cases, so far as the fistula was concerned. One of the patients died of pyaemia. In some of the cases, which presented considerable difficulties, more than one operation was necessary before a complete cure was obtained. G. Simon.—Description of a Case of Fistula betiveen the Small Intestine and the Vagina, simultaneously ivith Vesico-vaginal Fistula, with Critical Remarks on Intestino-vaginal Fistulce. Mon. f. Geb., Dec, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 437. Dr. Lyon.—Case of Operation for Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Glasg. Med. Journ., July, i860, p. 203. Partridge.—Foreign Body in the Vagina, covered with Calculous Deposit, and producing Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Hosp. Mirror, Lancet, Oct. 6th, i860, p. 339. Dr. Eben Watson.— Cases of Operation for Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Glasg. Med. Journ., April, i860, p. 53. Two cases (13 aud 14), both successful. Hilliard.—Observations on the Instruments employed in the Operation for the Cure of Vesico-vaginal Fistida, with a Description of New Instruments intended to simplify and facilitate the Operation. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 24th, i860, p. 498. Hilliard describes a set of improved and, in part, new instruments for the performance of vesico-vaginal fistula operations. Dr. A. Simpson (Dacca, India).—A Successful Case of Vesico-vaginal Fistula treated in the Milford Hospital at Dacca. Indian Annals, i860, p. 319.SPECIAL DISEASES. 377 I. Baker Brown.— Vesico-vaginal Fistula Operations, and some Recent- Improvements in these Cases. Med. Cir., June 13th, i860, p. 401. Four cases are related. Haynes Walton— Case of Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 25th, i860, p. 189. Haynes Walton records a case of vesico-vaginal fistula cured by Boze- mau's operation. Marvbjouls.—New Case of Recent Vesico-vaginal Fistula ; Cured by the Employment of an Air-pessary. Bull, de Tlier., Sept. 15th, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 435. Folijn. — Examination of Certain New Operative Procedures for the Treatment of Vesico-vaginal Fistulce. (American Method.) Paris, i860. Andrade.—Essay on the Treatment of Vesico-vaginal Fistulce on the American Method. Paris, i860. Spencer Wells.—Recto-vaginal Fistula ; Septum Ruptured at the Con- summation of Marriage ; Operation; Cure. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 21st, i860, p. 61. Spencer Wells records an interesting case of rupture of the recto-vaginal septum, produced by sexual intercourse. An operation was performed, and the opening (the size of a shilling) completely and successfully closed. Washington L. Atlee. — Case of Successfid Operation for Vesico-vaginal Fistula. (With eight woodcuts.) Am. Med. Journ., January, i860, P-6?: . . . " A case is reported in which labour was tedious, and the forceps were used. Ten days after labour, it was discovered that there was a vesico- vaginal fistula present. The author then considers the cause of the production of this fistula, about which there had been much discussion. Crockett.— Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Am. Med. Journ., Jan., i860, p. iai. Dr. Eben Watson.—Report of Seven Cases of Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Med. Times and Gaz., June 23d, i860, p. 616. Eben Watson has operated seven times for vesico-vaginal fistula; in all cases the first operation was successful. Mallez.—Prolapsus of the Mucous Membrane of the Female Urethra. Gaz. Hop., July 24th, i860. Prolapsus of the mucous membrane is, the author believes, sometimes mistaken for polypus. Thore— Case of Polypus of the Female Urethra. Gaz. Hop., March 13th, i860. P. Heron Watson.—Case of Cancer of the Bladder (in a Female). Edinb. Med. Journ., May, i860, p. 1093.378 uepout O.N midwifery, ETC. Hall.—// Jfcftftd 0/ i.'tHe flair*, Two Inches Long, growing from the walls of the Female Bladder, and covered with crystals of triple phosphate ; Successful Removal by Mr. Hall, by Dilatation of the Urethra. Lancet (Reports), Nov. 10th, i860, p. 461. John Hunter.—On a case of numerous Calculi in the Bladder of a Female. Lancet, July 21st, i860, p. 57. Ed. Atkinson.—Case of Lithotomy in a Female, removal of Large Stone ;~Rapid [recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., August 25th, i860, p. 181. Baudy.—Lithotomy in the Female; Spontaneous Fracture of a Vesical Calculus. Brit. Amer. Journ., Jan., i860, p. 13, Breast. Electricity as a means of Reproducing the Lacteal Secretion. Bull, de Ther., 1859, T°l« *> P- 432- In two cases the application of slight currents of electricity, by means of the electro-magnetic machine, was successful. Rich. Marley.—On the Jetton of Belladonna on the Secreting Mammary Gland. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 29. Marley confirms Goolden's views as to the utility of belladonna inunctions for the purpose of arresting the lacteal secretion. Thos. W. Nunn.—Acute Inflammation and Abscess of the Breast. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12th, i860, p. 470. Nunn gives the results of his observations on nineteen cases of mammary abscess. In fifteen the suppuration occurred during lactation ; nine of these belonged to the first and second months of lactation, three occurred during pregnancy, and one was unconnected with pregnancy or lactation. The lower lobes contained the purulent collection in eleven cases, the upper in five. The author disapproves of all debilitating measures, particularly continuous poulticing. He insists on the im- portance of the recumbent position, and on the propriety of the early use of the bistoury. Dr. M'Clintock.—Some Remarks on Mammary Inflammation and Mam- mary Abscess. Dub. Med. Press, May 2d, i860, p. 339. In a very large proportion of fifty-four cases here related, some form of sore nipple preceded the inflammation. Hardness and tenderness of the base of the nipple show that mammary inflammation is imminent. Poulticing and rest are then the best means to be adopted. The author believes that inflammation and abscess very rarely result from distension of the breast alone. "Drawing the breasts," when the nipple is sore and inflamed, is to be reprobated. Rubbing or suction is only admissible to relieve or prevent over-distension, the nipple not being sore. The author does not think highly of belladonna as a local application to check the secretion of milk. Cold lotions are to be preferred to warm fomenta- tions and other local applications. In regard to the time for opening the abscess, late puncture has proved most satisfactory. The utility of the "compression" treatment is great, but after the evacuation of the abscess,DISEASES OF PREGNANCY AND CHILDBED. 379 Prof. EWCHSBN.—On the Diagnosis of Tumours of the Breast. Brit. Med. Journ., March 31st, p, 239; April 14th, i860, p. 279. Briohseu calls attention to the occasional great difficulty of making a diagnosis in cases of tumours of the breast; he advises great caution, especially in pronouncing unfavorably. A systematic account is then given of the differential diagnosis in such cases. Manec.—Extraordinary Hypertrophy of the Breasts in a Girl cet. 17. Gaz. Hdp., 12, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 443. Both breasts formed enormous pendulous tumours, hanging down as far as the pubic region. Extirpation was performed at two operations. The left mamma weighed seven and a half, the right, amputated a month later, eight kilogrammes. The patient recovered, and the menses after- wards appeared. Dr. C. Fleming.—Case of Sero-cystic Disease of the Female Breast. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Sept. ist, i860, p. 258. John Birkett.—Recurrence of an Adenocele, or Mammary Glandular Tumour, after three successive removals. Lancet, July 28th, i860, p. 81. John Adams.—Mammary Glandular and Sero-cystic Tumour. Lancet, July 28th, i860, p. 81. Prof. Fergusson.—Mammary Glandular Tumour, with a Preponderance of Fibrous Tissue, commencing at fourteen years of age. Lancet, July 28th, i860, p. 82. Prof. Fekgusson.— Cancer of the Breast; Removal of the Gland; Re- covery. Med. Circ, April 18th, i860, p. 257. John Adams.—Large Mammary Adenocele, ivith Cysts. Med. Times and Gaz., March 10th, i860, p. 234. Lotzbeck. — General Hypertrophy of the Mammary Gland, with un- usually large amount of Fat in its Secretion. Wien. Wohnschr., 1859, 10. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 51. M. H. Collis.—On Cancer of the Breast. Dub. Med. Pr., March 14th, 1860, p. 215. Report on Operations for the Removal of Tumour in the Breast. Med. Times and Gaz., May 12th, i860, p. 473. Brief particulars of twenty-seven cases, in which operations for the removal of tumours from the breast were performed in the provincial English hospitals, are recorded 5 of these, twenty-two were cases of scirrhus, two of encephaloid, three of chronic mammary tumour or adenocele. Prof. Fergusson.—Scirrhus of Breast; Removal. Med. Times and Gaz., May 19th, i860, p. 495. DISEASES OF PREGNANCY AND CHILDBED. GENERAL. Dr. TASKJflB.—- On the Signs and Diseases of Pregnancy. 8vo, Lond i860, pp. 504, Renshaw. This work contains a concise account of the present state of know-380 ltEPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. ledge in all that relates to the signs and diseases of pregnancy. The author considers successively ; —physiological and other questions relating to pregnancy ; the signs and symptoms of pregnancy ; the diseases which simulate pregnancy; the duration of pregnancy; the premature expulsion of the foetus; the examination of substances expelled from the uterus; extra-uterine gestation; supcrfcetation ; diseases which may coexist with pregnancy, and their reciprocal influence ; sympathetic disorders of pregnancy; diseases of the urinary and generative organs during pregnancy ; and displacements of the gravid uterus. The work contains details of numerous cases observed by the author, illustrative of the several questions discussed. Guillot.—Hypertrophy of the Thyroid Gland in Pregnant Women. Arch. Gen., Nov., i860. The author relates two cases in which the thyroid gland attained a very large size during pregnancy, and in both cases the patients succumbed. He has observed an enlargement similar in kind, but not so great in degree, in other women, and thinks it highly probable that the connection between such hypertrophy and the presence of pregnancy will be established. In both the cases recorded there was no other cause to assign for the enlargement. Paul.—On the Influence of Lead-poisoning on Conception. Archiv. Gen., May, i860. Paul shows, by a series of observations (on eighty-one cases), that lead- poisoning has an important influence in promoting a tendency to abortion. The effects were menorrhagia after the menses have become suppressed in cases where there was reason to believe pregnancy was present; abortions or miscarriages from the third to the sixth month ; premature deliveries, children being born dead or dying; high mortality in children during the first three years of life. Thus four women, subjects of lead-poisoning (printing-type polishers), had collectively fifteen pregnancies, out of which there M ere ten abortions, two premature deliveries, one stillbirth, one child dead in twenty-four hours, only one living. Other series of observations show the alteration from unfavorable to favorable pregnancies on the abandonment of the employment. From a series of seven observations, it appears that a similar deleterious influence may proceed from the father when the latter is a worker in lead. SPECIAL. Obstinate Vomiting in Pregnancy, §-c. Pjstrequin.—On Obstinate Vomiting in Pregnancy. Gaz. Hop., April 3d, i860. A case is related by Petrequin in which the mineral waters of Con- dillac were successful in restraining the vomiting, after other measures had been ineffectually used. Caiiadec and G. Richelot, L'Union, 40 ; Baudot and Dufor, L'Union, 46, i860. — On Obstinate Vomiting in Pregnancy. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 311.DISEASES OF PREGNANCY AND CHILDBED. 881 LtoTAt'D.—Hernia Umbilicalis, containing the Pregnant Uterus. Gaz. Hop., 1859, 105. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 196. Puerperal Fever. SlLBERSCHMlDT.—Historical and Critical Revieio of the Pathology of Childbed Fever. (Prize Essay.) Erlangen, 1859. Enke, 8vo, pp. 131. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 353. An account of the various theories regarding the nature and pathology of childbed fever put forth since the days of Hippocrates. Pippin gskxeld.—On Puerperal Fever, from observations at the General Hospital, Helsingfors. Mon. f. Geb., March and April, i860, p. 296. Twice in the year 1858 the disease occurred in the hospital—first at the end of June, when the hospital, only intended for ten, contained fourteen puerperal women. In October the disease was again observed, but first in the town. Giordano.—Puerperal Fever observed in the Obstetric Clinic. Turin, 8vo, 1859, pp. 155. Kerschensteiner.— Observations in Pfeuffer's Clinic at Munich : Puer- peral Fever. Ztsch. f. Rat. Med., vol. v, 2, 3, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 446. This report refers to twenty-four cases of puerperal fever observed in the hospital at Munich ; of these sixteen died. In all cases the uterine mucous membrane presented an offensive, discoloured, diphtheritic covering. The character of the fever was mostly pysemic. In the treatment free admis- sion of air and vaginal injections were considered important. None of the special therapeutic agents employed appear to have proved decidedly and universally beneficial. Hetss. — Aphoristic Reniar/cs on Childbed Fever. Aerzt. Intell. BI. Bayer, 7, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 446. Schulten. — On Contagious Puerperal Diseases. Virch. Arch., xvii, 3 and 4, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 446. Prof. Faye. — On the Diagnosis and Treatment of Puerperal Fever. Norsk Mag. f. Laegev., 12 and 13, 18^9. Canst., vol. iv, p. 446. Faye considers puerperal fever to be a general disease, originating in infec- tion, and impressed with a peculiar character, in consequence of the peculiar condition of the blood present during the puerperal state. Buhl.—The Pathological Anatomy of Childbed Fever. Aerzt. Intell. Bl. Bay., 14, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 446. Vox Franque. — On a Puerperal Epidemic at the Wurxburg Obstetrical Establishment. Scanz. Beit., vol. iv, p. 238. Med. Times and Gaz. July 14th, i860, p. 38. Of ninety-nine women delivered during February, March, and April, 18^9, at the Wurzburg establishment, thirty were attacked by puerperal fever, and nine of these died.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Herman. — Epidemic* of Puerperal Fever observed at the Lyina-in- llospital at Berne. Schweiz. Mon. Boh., 1859. Schmidt, vol 107 P- 195- These observations refer to three epidemics in the years 1839, l84Q and 1858. The disease was prevalent in the town and neiglibo'urhood during the time of the first epidemic. Several circumstances proved that 111 all three epidemics a specific miasma was generated in the hospital. Martin en q.— On Puerperal Fever. 8vo, Paris, i8<5o. A summary is here given of the views of each of the speakers in the great puerperal fever discussion at the Academy of Medicine in Paris iu 1858. Dr. Ed. Copeman. — Illustrations of Puerperal Fever. Loud., i860, Churchill, pp. 137. The author's experience of puerperal fever leads him to consider turpen- tine as the "sheet-anchor" in the treatment of the disease ; and he states that his practice, in which turpentine was employed, has been more suc- cessful than any that has yet appeared before the profession. Dr. GiBB.—Pelvic Cellulitis after a First Pregnancy, followed by Sup- puration of the Back and Front Parts of the Vagina ; Recovery. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 324. Puerperal Convidsions. Krassnig.— On Eclampsia during Pregnancy, Labour, and Childbed. Spitals Ztg., 1859, 17-24. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 312. The author relates the particulars of nineteen cases of eclampsia which occurred in 1857 and 1858, in the Clinic of Brant], at Vienna. Tlie paroxysms began in ten cases during the dilatation period, in one during turning, in five during childbed. Of the latter, three occurred during the first, one in the second, and one in the eighth week. The number of pai'oxysms varied from one to eighty-one; they were most numerous in the cases of convulsions during childbed. The duration of each paroxysm was from one to three minutes ; only one lasted ten minutes. In six there were premonitory symptoms—intellectual aberrations, rest- lessness, vomiting, disturbances of the senses, pains in the loins. In all cases save one there was reason for believing that Bright's disease was present. In three cases—respectively four weeks, four days, and one hour before the convulsions occurred—this diagnosis was made out. In ten cases there was oedema, mostly of the lower extremities and the face. In the case where eighty-one attacks were observed, there Was no oedema; in another case, with sixty paroxysms, no albumen was found to be present in the urine. The results w'ere, that seven out of sixteen women recovered, nine died ; of the seven who recovered four were attacked during labour, and three afterwards. Convalescence was rapid in these cases ; after an interval of from four to fourteen days the albumen and casts were no longer present. In the fatal cases death took place during the convulsions in two, in aDISEASES OF PREGNANCY AND CHILDBED. 383 state of sopor in five, and from secondary puerperal diseases in two. The attacks were most severe and most numerous in the fatal cases. The post-mortem appearances in the nine cases were— anaemia and watery condition of the brain, six times ; hyperemia, once ; intermeningeal apo- plexy, once ; normal condition of brain, once ; hyperemia and inflammatory exudation in the kidneys in three cases, fatty degeneration in four, atrophy in one case ; in one case no morbid change. In four cases there was oedema of lungs ; in two, puerperal peritonitis; in one, stenosis of one ureter; in one, tubercle of lungs. As regards the children, the results were as follows :—In all save one (breech case) the presentation was cranial. Of eighteen children (twins twice), fifteen were horn alive, three dead. In the ten cases where con- vulsions occurred first during the dilatation period, nine children were born alive and two dead. One of these deaths was due to craniotomy. In the other cases, when the convulsions occurred later, the children were born alive, the case of turning excepted. As regards the treatment—in five cases venecsection was employed. Of these, three died; in one the attacks became more violent after its use; once vensesection and chloroform inhalation combined produced cessation of the attacks, and in one the attacks were rendered less severe by their means ; not more than ten ounces of blood were drawn. Chloroform inhalation was employed in six cases; the duration and intensity of the attacks were lessened by its use; they were not unfrequently cut short by it if had recourse to when the attack was impending. In twelve cases opium was extensively used, and it was most advantageously given in large doses, so as at once to produce deep sleep. To promote diuresis lemon-juice, tartaric acid, and benzoic acid were administered. Cold appli- cations to the head were used. In the ten cases where the first attack occurred during the dilatation period the delivery was hastened—in four cases by introducing a flexible catheter ; in one of these the colpeurynter was also used; in four the os uteri was dilated by the fingers; in one nothing of an analogous kind was done. In six the forceps were used ; in one, perforation was performed ; in one, turning, and in one the Csesarean section. Alf. Liegaud.—On Puerperal Eclampsia and its Treatment, (Memoir crowned at the Concours of 1858.) Ann.delaSoc.Med.-Chir.de Bruges, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 445. In this memoir twenty-eight cases are related. The author concludes, from a review of the whole, that vensesection is generally injurious ; that the greatest reliance is to be placed on chloroform inhalation. He recom- mends the latter not merely during the attacks, but as a prophylactic. Epileptiform Eclampsia in a Woman during the Puerperal State; Action 0/Sulphate of Quinine. Monit. des Hop., 3, 1859. Canst., vol iv P- 445- Dr. PlttBlE.—Observations on the Treatment of Puerperal Eclamjisia. Dub. Quart. Journ., May, i860, p. 461. John G. Johnson.—Apoplectic Puerperal Convulsions; Recovery with Hemiplegia. Am. Med. Times, Oct. 6th, i860.REl'ORT ON' iilDWiriillV, ETC. Hakgis.— Eclampsia in a Primipara at the sixth month of Utero gestation; Uterine Hemorrhages Contraction of the Pelvis; Cephalotomy'; Metro-peritonitis; Recovery. Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., Sept., i860' p. 862. Reymann. — Eclampsia Parlnrientium. Preus. Ver. Ztg., 12, iS'o. Canst., vol. iv, p. 463. V. Madurowitz.— On Urcemic Eclampsia; Obstetric Clinic of Braun, in Vienna. Wien. Acrzt. Zeit., 33, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 445. This report refers to nine cases observed during the year 1858. In all the cases symptoms of Blight's disease were present; four died. Hoffmann.—Case of Eclampsia Parturientium. Mon. f. Geb., March, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 444. Chas. A. Lee.—Case of Puerperal Convulsions from Albuminuria, in which Chloroform was successfully used; with Remarks. Am. Journ. Med., July, i860, p. 275. Candy.—Case of Puerperal Convulsions in a Primipara ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 15th, i860, p. 254. Dr. Allen.—Puerperal Convulsions in a Primipara; subsequent Perito- nitis; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 20th, 1860, p. 374. Dr. Corry.—Case of Epileptic Puerperal Convulsions. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Aug. ist, i860, p. 23 5. Dr. Hardy.—Puerperal Convulsions occurring in the Seventh Month of Pregnancy. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., May ist, i860, p. 131. Gyoux.—Eclampsia during Labour; application of Forceps ; Pneumonia ; Meningitis ; Death. Gaz. Hop., Sept. 27th, i860. Chloroform was used. Hamon.—On a very severe case of Eclampsia, in which the operation of Embryotomy was necessary. Gaz. Hop., Feb. 21st, i860. Labalbary.— Puerperal Eclampsia cured by Compression of the Carotids. Gaz. Hop., Sept. 15th, i860. Bonifas.—Eclampsia ; Labour abandoned to Nature ; Puerperal Mania ; Cure. Gaz. Hop., Sept. 22d, i860. Puerperal Mama. Prof. Simpson.—On Puerperal Mania, its Prognosis and Treatment; Puerperal Hypochondriasis. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. ist, Nov. 10th, Dec. 8th, i860. In the prognosis of puerperal mania, rapidity of the pulse is of unfavor- able omen ; the prognosis, as regards the termination of the insanity, is more uncertain. The author disapproves of bleeding at the outset, but vascular sedatives—antimony, or ipecacuanha, or aconite—may be given. Camphor, as a nervous sedative, may be useful; opium is useful in some cases, in others of no avail. When given, large doses—two to three grains—must be employed, the object being to produce sleep at once. Chloroform or ether produces sleep of a curative character in some cases. Depurants are to be employed at the onset when the stomach is overloaded; when the disease has become established, it is of great importance to385 SPECIAL DISEASES. nourish the patient well. Under the name "puerperal hypochondriasis" the author describes a morbidly depressed state of mind which is some- times met with in practice weeks or months after delivery. In reference to the etiology of the disease, albuminuria was found to be present at the commencement, and to recur contemporaneously with subsequent attacks of insanity. Phlegmasia Dolens, Puerperal Thromboses, fyc. Dr. Tilbury Fox.— On Phlegmasia Volens. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 201. Tilbury Fox contends that the general prevailing opinion, that phleg- masia dolens is a disease dependent upon inflammatory change, is too limited. Phlegmasia dolens may occur—i, as the sole local disease, as after abortion, &c.; 2, as part of a general disease—(a) either of virus origin, e.g. puerperal fever, &c, (b) or abnormal nutrition, ex., cancer, phthisis; 3, as complicating other local diseases, e. g. iliac abscess, &c. Its evolution depends on the existence of obstructive disease in both veins and lymphatics, the causes of the obstruction being extrinsic or intrinsic as regards the vessels. The extrinsic causes are comprised under the head of pressure from without. The intrinsic, all producing coagulation, are—1, true phlebitis, conjoined with angeioleucitis ; 2, thrombosis; 3, a mixture of these two; 4, preternatural coagulability of the blood, doubtful (merely a favorable condition). The main point insisted on is, that in phlegmasia dolens there is, in most cases, a pure thrombus, produced by sudden absorption of morbid fluid, the (compensating) effect of sudden loss. In phlegmasia dolens the lymphatics as well as the veins are involved. Dr. Tilbury Fox, — On the Pathological Lesion of Phlegmasia Dolens. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 222. Tilbury Fox states that the presence of fibrinous serosity in (with more or less hypertrophy of) the fibro-cellular tissue is the essential, the suffi- cient, pathological lesion of phlegmasia dolens. Inflammation, abscess, and sloughing, he regards as the eliminative act to rid the system of some blood-poison ; the latter may produce lymphatic and venous obstruc- tion, and hence phlegmasia dolens, which in these cases is a local compli- cation of the general disease. Hence there are two classes of cases— (a) the complicated, (b) the uncomplicated. In the former the phlegmasia dolens is only part of a general disease, in the latter it is thewhole disease and a local one. The lymphatics, besides having other offices, keep the balance of nutrition of the cellular tissue correct; their obstruction is followed by retention of fibrine, &c, i. e. the excess of pabulum is not removed. Paulsen.—Puerperal Thromboses; Sudden Death; Embolia of the Pul- monary Arteries. Hosp. Tidende, 1859, No- 4°. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 328. Dr. R. Uvedale West.— Case of Sudden Apoplectiform Seizure ter- minating fatally in thirty-five hours on the sixth day of bnna-in Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 276. ' 25REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 386 Laborie.—History of Thrombus of the Vulva and Vayinu, particularly after Labour, $»c. Arch. Gen., December, i860. NEW INSTRUMENTS. Ptoss.— On some Expedients in Vaginal Inspection. Mon. f. Geb., April, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 186. Ploss states that the reflecting surface of the speculum in ordinary use does little towards throwing the light where it is actually required. He prefers a dark, glass speculum, which is not open to this objection: he employs with the speculum a lens. In cases where the vagina lias an unusual shape or direction, or where the vaginal portion of the uterus is of such a form as to interfere with the use of the ordinary speculum, Ploss uses a gutta-percha tube, the shape of the extremity of which can, by means of hot water, be adapted to the particular requirements of the case. Venot.—Davanseaux's " Irriyateur-obturateur Vaginal." Journ. de Bord., Sept., 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 57. In this instrument an elliptic plate closes the entrance of the vagina, and prevents the escape of the fluid, Avhich is injected through an aper- ture in the plate by means of a caoutchouc ball, capable of holding about 250 grammes of fluid. The use of this instrument ensures the contact of the fluid with the whole vaginal surface and with the vaginal portion of the uterus. PART III.—DISEASES OF CHILDREN. A. GENERAL. GENERAL TREATISES; HYGIENICS; FEEDING; STATISTICS. Prof. v. Siebold.— On the Proportions of Weight and Length of New- born Children; on the Diminution of their Weight during the first- days, and the Increase of the same in the first week after Delivery. Mon. f. Geb., May, i860, p. 337. Roger.—On the Closure of the Anterior Fontanelle. L'Union, 1859, No. 140: Med. Times and Gaz., April 21st, i860, p. 402. Roger examined the heads of 300 children, and found that the period of closure (clinically) of the anterior fontanelle is comprised between fifteen months and the age of three and a half years. The usual period is between the second and third year. Rickets and hydrocephalus retard the closure. Lederer.—On some sources of the Marasmus of Children in Early Childhood. Wien. Wohnschr., 35, 3$, '859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 203,387 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Lceschner.—On the Progressive Algidity, Sclerema, and so-called Infantile Decrepitude of Children. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859, 3, 91. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 321. The author has observed sixteen cases in which the condition described by Hervieux as " algidite" progressive" was present in infants between the ages of six and twenty-six months. . He believes this condition to mark a symptom which may accompany certain diseased processes in children up to the age of two, probably three years, mostly during the first fifteen months. It is produced by disturbances of the processes subservient to nutrition or of the organs of respiration and circulation. Thomas Ballard.—A New and Rational Explanation of the Diseases peculiar to Infants and Mothers ; with Obvious Suggestions for their Prevention or Cure. 8vo, London, i860, Churchill, pp. 128. Mr. Ballard believes that "fruitless sucking" is the cause of many ailments in infancy whicb are commonly ascribed to teething ; and that it is the principal, if not the chief, cause of all the diseases of infancy in which we can recognise a failure of the processes of growth and nutrition. The excitation of the nerves of taste produces, according to Brown- Se'quard, "an abundant reflex secretion of gastric juice, and also a flow of bile and pancreatic juice in the bowels." The act of sucking is, Mr. Ballard remarks, par excellence the mode to induce this excitation, and it is obvious that these juices must be secreted abundantly during the exercise of this act. When the sucking is fruitless, the gastric juice is still secreted; but, having no food to exercise its solvent action upon, it acts on the raucous coat of the stomacb and intestines, causing various degrees of injury, and giving rise to most of the diseases of infancy. The effect of fruitless sucking is not less injurious, it is contended, on the puerperal woman, giving rise to mammary abscess, puerperal fevers, &c. In the second part of the work the author puts forward a new theory on "light, the only cause of purulent ophthalmia in infants." The explanations usually given of the occurrence of purulent ophthalmia in infants are unsatisfactory ; and he finds that, in the majority of the cases observed by him there was a cause in operation in all not before alluded to, namely, " the exposure of the infant to the light while sleeping in the daytime." The theory thus broached is supported, as is also the one relating to the effects of fruitless sucking, by very numerous observations of cases which have occurred in the author's practice. BRiiXNlCHE.—On Mortality and Diseases in Children, as influenced by Sex and Age. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 11 and 12, p. 323. Mayr.—On the Examination and Setneiology of the Sick Child. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859,3. Hennig.—Text-book of the Diseases of Children at Various Ages. 2d ed., Leipzig and Heidelberg, 1859, 8vo, pp.473. Atiiol Johnson.—On an Injurious Habit occasionally met with in Infancy and Childhood. Lancet, April 7th, i860, p. 344. Athol Johnson records a case In which onanism was practised to a most injurious extent by a boy, set. 6. The sense of hearing was affected. The author, after trying other measures without effect, removed a piece of the foreskin ; the result was beneficial.388 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Dr. Wilks.—On some Diseases of Children. Guy'8 llosp. Rep i860 P- 97- rins paper contains an account of eighty-two cases, chiefly those of children; forty of these are cases of disease of the brain, five were cases of croup, two of laryngitis, four cases of tracheotomy, two of oedema of the glottis ; also some cases of hooping-cough, pneumonia, &c, and nine cases illustrative of the cause of death from burns and scalds. Observations on the pathology of the several diseases illustrated by the cases are appended. Dr. Gairdner.—On Infantile Mortality, as illustrated by Private Prac- tice, with Suggestions for future Inquiries. Edinb. Med. Journ., Nov., i860, p. 437. Gardner's inquiries have the purpose of eliciting information as to the actual mortality of children during the first year of life in general prac- tice, and with this view he has collected reliable information from practitioners residing in several country and town districts in Scotland. The general result was, that in the country 8.08 per cent., and in the town 7.14 per cent, died under one year old; from which the author infers that the towns owe their very high rate of infantile mortality, as compared with the country districts, to the influence of the lowest and most neglected class. Dr. W. J. Marshall.—Remarks upon the Birth-rate as affecting the Proportion of Deaths tinder Two Tears of Age. Edinb. Med. Journ., Oct. and Nov., i860, pp. 332, 421. Bentzen.—On the Mortality of the First Year of Life. Ugesk. for Laegev, xxviii, 441. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 53. Minchin.—Observa tions on the Mortality of Infants born in Workhouses. Dubl. Quart., Feb., i860, p. 70. Blumenthal.—On the Mortality of Infants in the Moscow Foundling Hospital. Med. Zeit. Russ., 1859, No. 30, 31. Med. Times and Gaz., July 21st, i860, p. 63. Blumenthal states that the mortality is favoured:—1. By the miserable condition of the infants, produced by the neglect to which they have been subjected previous to admission, and the long distances from which they are brought. Thus, of 11,762 admitted in 1856, 1921 were doomed to speedy death, independently of hospital causes. 2. By the occasional deficiency of nurses. Artificial feeding, performed with the greatest care, does not prevent the infants from sinking under diarrhoea, atrophy, Sec. 3. By the change of nurses, which it appears is unavoidable. 4. By the generation of disease in consequence of the conglomeration of individuals, and especially of individuals of foreign and varied origin. 5. By over- crowding, the number of admissions having very largely increased of late years. 6. Epidemics appear to exercise very little influence on infants at the breast j but the author believes that epidemic visitations have an in- direct influence by the injurious effect they exert on the mother during pregnancy. The mortality has varied during the last thirty years from 15.42 to 32.09 per cent. The mortality has never been in an exact proportion to889 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. the amount of disease, the year with a low mortality showing a high per-centage of disease. Andrew Combe and Sir James Clark.—The Management of Infancy, Physiological and Moral, intended chiefly for the use of Parents. oth ed., Edinb., i860, Maclachlan and Stewart, pp. .302. This, the ninth edition of Combe's well-known work on the hygiene of childhood, has been revised and edited by Sir James Clark. Philothalos.— The Wife's Domain. London, i860, Churchill. A series of familiar discourses delivered to poor women, attending as patients at a small establishment devoted to the relief of children's and maternal diseases. Pye Henry Chavasse.—Advice to a Mother on the Management of her Offspring. 5th ed., i2mo, Lond., i860, Churchill. This edition is much enlarged, greatly improved, and the price reduced. Deschamps.—On Alimentation during Infancy, and Bachitism. These. Paris, 1859. Steinberger.—On the Formation of the Milk Teeth, and the Symptoms attending their Appearance. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859, 2. Andrien.—Treatment of Diarrhoea in Children, and particularly by a Milk Diet and the Pulp of Raw Meat. These. Paris, 1859. Scharlau.—A Substitute for Human Milk. Illustrirten Ztg., i860, No. 863, p. 27. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 196. Dr. Routh.—Infant Feeding, and its Influence on Life ; or, the Causes, and Prevention of Infant Mortality. London, Churchill, i860, pp. 378. In Part I of this work the question of mortality in infants of tender age is discussed, and statistics are adduced ; the mortality in foundling hospitals, and the causes of the same, are pointed out. The latter are chiefly the recumbent position and want of exercise and breast-milk. In Part II are considered, the advantages of breast-milk in ensuring life and good de- velopment, the question of wet-nursing, the evil effects of the practice of employing wet-nurses from among fallen women, the qualifications of a wet- nurse to be selected, the danger of dry-nursing. In Part III, the causes of the mortality in infancy are considered, the true principle of alimen- tation laid down, and the respective advantages of the several substitutes for human milk examined. Part IV is chiefly devoted to the question of the treatment of defective lactation ; and the treatment and nature of defective assimilation in the infant are again considered. Mrs. M. A. Baines.—The Comparative Properties of Human and Animal Milks 5 a new Theory as to Essences, and a new interpretation of some Physiological Facts. 8vo, Lond., Churchill, i860, pp. 31. The chief object of this paper is to show that cow's milk, unless mixed with farinaceous substances, is unfit food for infants in cases where the mother's milk is not obtainable ; also to show that the milk of one woman is unfit nourishment for the child of another.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 390 CUMMING.—Food for Babes; or, Artificial Human Milk, and the munner of preparing it and administering it to Young Children. New York, i860, pp. 100, Randolph. Le Barillier.—Practical Essay on Hygiene, and on the Diseases of Childhood. Paris and Bordeaux, 1859, pp. 274. Guiet.—Advice to Mothers; or, the Hygiene of the New-born and Nursling. Le Mans, 1859. Wertheimer.—Dietetics of the Newly-born and the Nursling. Munich, i860, pp. 118. H. May.—On the Nourishing of Neiv-born Children. Inaug. Diss. Munich, 1859, 8vo, pp. 36. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 269. Brunniche.—On the use of Sedatives, especially Morphia, for Children. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, Nov. and Dec. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 330. Morphia is especially indicated in convulsions, croup, &c, in reference to its action on the nervous element in these diseases. The author con- firms Edward Smith's opinion as to the value of morphia in small doses for hooping-cough. Boinet. — On the use of Food containing Iodine. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., 1859, 131. Luzsinsky.—Third and Fourth Annual Reports of the Public Institution for Sick Children in Vienna. Jour. f. Kind., 1859, 3 and 4, and 9 and 10. Berend.—Ninth Report of the Gymnastic Orthopaedic Institution at Berlin. 1859. The Twenty-second and Twenty-third Annual Reports of the Children's Hospital at St. Petersburg, from January 1, 1856, to January 1, 1858. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 5 and 6, p. 421. Twelfth Annual Report of the Hauner Children's Hospital, Munich. Jour. f. Kind., 1859, 7 an(i P* io1, Stiebel.—Fourteenth and Fifteenth Reports of the Christ's Hospital for Children at Frankfort-on-the-Maine, for 1857-58. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 7 and 8, p. 103. Wildberger.—Third Report of the Orthopaedic Institution in Bamberg. Bamberg, 1859. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 7 and 8, p. 104. SPECIAL TREATISES. DISEASES OE BRAIN, SPINAL CORD, AND ORGANS OF THE SENSES. Dr. Jenner.—Case of Acute Tubercular Meningitis. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 24th, i860, p. 504. Case of Chronic Tubercular Meningitis. Ib., p. 505. Dr. Ciiarles West.—On the Mental Peculiarities and Mental Disorders of Childhood. A Lecture delivered at the Hospital for Sick Children. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. nth, i860, p. 133. West calls attention to the hitherto somewhat neglected field of study presented by diseased conditions of the mind in childhood. The mental peculiarities of children are first discussed, and the peculiar tendency to moral perversion in the case of children is pointed out. A disposition to exaggeration of existing ailments, or to feigning of such as have no existence is not uncommonly observed. Cases are then detailed in illustration ot the author's views.DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 391 Bierbaum.—The Paralyses of Children. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 1 and Bierbaum divides the paralyses of children into two varieties—the idiopathic and the symptomatic. The history and character, diagnosis, &c, of these affections are very fully discussed, and numerous illustrative cases related. The distinctions between the two forms are laid down as follows: The symptomatic paralyses always depend on functional or organic dis- turbance of the brain or cord. In the idiopathic form the nervous centres are free and unaltered. The intelligence, consciousness, and functions of the senses are disturbed in the symptomatic, but not in the idiopathic form. Almost always the bladder and rectum are affected, producing constipation and retention of urine or enuresis in the symptomatic, not in the other, form. Muscular atrophy is never absent in case of idiopa- thic paralysis, and this is combined with deformity, which is not the case in symptomatic paralysis. In symptomatic paralysis limitation of the affection to one muscle, or one single group of muscles, is never noticed. Eulenberg.—On the Essential Paralysis of Children. Virch. Arch., 1859, 177. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 55. Hahn.—On Chronic Hydrocephalus, and on a New Method of Puncturing the same. Berlin, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 384. The method of puncture is that of Langenbeck. A trochar and canula are thrust through the upper border of the orbit, and into the enlarged anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. By this plan no large arteries or veins, and no important part of the brain, are injured. No air enters, which is another advantage. A case in which this method was had re- course to ended fatally. Roux fils (de Brignoles).—On Compression and Puncture in Chronic Hydrocephalus. Monit. des Sc. Med., 1859, No. 23. Canst., vol. iv, p. 384. The author relates two cases. In the first, that of a boy ten months old, a cure was effected by compression of the head by means of strips of adhesive plaister. Calomel was given at the same time. In a second case the head was punctured ; the child, set. 11 months, died two days afterwards. Prof. Trousseau.—On Cerebral Fever in Children. Clin. Europ., 7, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 384. Lensing.—On Tubercular Meningitis. Berlin, 1859. Lund.—Chronic Hydrocephalus. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 1 and 2. Boucuut.—On Cysticerci in the Brain in Children. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 9 and 10. Two cases are related. In the first, a girl, set. 6, died apparently from typhus, but after death cysticerci were found in the brain, and purulent exudation over the meninges. The single cerebral symptom present was persistent vomiting. In the second case, a girl, cet. 10, who came into the hospital with chorea, died after an attack of scarlet fever, and here also cysticerci were found in the brain. In both cases the cerebral condition was not diagnosticated. The chorea in the latter case was a peculiar hemiple°-ic form. r 0392 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Stelmvag von Carion.*— On the Treatment of Ophthalmia Neonatorum, $'c. Jahrb. t. Kind., vol. i, 18159. Canst, vol. iv, p. 384. In cases attended with much swelling and inflammation, a compress carefully applied over the eye is recommended. A lotion containing nitrate of silver (live to ten grains to the ounce) is at the same time used. ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. Breiski'.—Observations on Stillborn Children. Prag. Viertel., 1859, 175. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 193. Five cases are here related. In Case 1 the cord was prolapsed and pulseless, and the inner part of the trachea, the hronchi and their ramifi- cations, were filled with a thinnish, yellow-brown fluid, which under the microscope showed particles of meconium, with numerous epithelial cells and cholesterine. The liquor amnii had been aspired. In Case 2 meconium m was found in the air-passages. In Case 3 meconium was also found in the air-passages, and there were dropsical effusions into the serous cavities, inter- meningeal extravasation, and slight laceration of the left tentorium cerebelli. In Case 4 the pelvis of the mother was contracted ; delivery natural, after thirteen hours' labour; laceration of the left tentorium cerebelli and transverse sinus ; inter-meningeal haemorrhage ; meconium in the air-pas- sages. On these four cases the author remarks that the first two were cases of what Schwartz designates as " asphyktische intoxikation," whilst in the other two, besides the injuries described, and which in them- selves were perhaps fatal, there was probably also a simultaneous asphyxial condition present. In a fifth case the child died a quarter of an hour after birth, after a few imperfect respiratory efforts: the diaphragm on the left side was imperfectly formed, there being a large opening through which the pleural and abdominal cavities freely communicated. Hecker.—On Intra-uterine Emphysema of the Lungs. Virchow's Arch., 1859, 535. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 319. A very interesting and remarkable case of intra-uterine respiration. T. Gaillard Thomas.—Lecture on Suspended Foetal Animation. N. Y. Jour. Med., May, i860, p. 355. The causes of suspended fcetal animation ai-e—1. Asphyxia. 2. Syncope. 3. Cerebral congestion. 4. Apoplexy. When asphyxia is present, the Marshall-Hall method of treatment is strongly recommended; and a case is cited in which a stillborn child was recovered after an interval of up- wards of fifteen minutes. If the heart, after fifteen to thirty minutes, does not act, there are no reasonable grounds for hope of recovery; but should the heart act ever so feebly, this limitation of time does not hold good. In asphyxia, the face is dusky, the lips purple and pouting, the eyes glassy, the limbs not flaccid. In syncope, there are paleness, flaccidity of the limbs, and a sunken, cadaverous hue of the face. In this case, also, respiration is to be induced, the cord not to be separated, and the blood to be pressed into the child's body from it. In cerebral congestion, the face is blackened and congested, the head swollen. The treatment is to let blood flow from the severed cord, to establish respiration, and, as in asphyxia, to avoid the warm bath. Cases of apoplexy are rare.393 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. S. Prall.—The Marshall-Hall Method of Treatment in Asphyxia (Neo- natorum). Lancet, Nov. 3d, i860, p. 446. In Prall's case, the Marshall-Hall method is stated to have been the means by which resuscitation was effected after an interval of twenty- five minutes. Keyt.—The Mouth to Mouth versus the Marshall-Hall Method in As- phyxia Neonatorum. Cincinnati Lancet and Obs., Jan., i860. Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., March, i860, p. 332. Keyt states that the case of the new-born child is not quite parallel with that of the adult, and that he has found the old method successful in cases where the " Ready Method" had been employed with negative results. A. Vogel.—On the Physical Examination of the Lungs in Children. Jahrb. f. Kind., vol. i, part 2, p. 87. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 311. Fkeund.—The Connection between certain Affections of the Lungs and primary Anomalies of the Bib-cartilages. Erlangen, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 392. Dr. Moohe.—Affections of the Chest in Children. Sub-acute Idiopathic Pleurisy, with Effusion ; Variety in Vicarious Means of Removing the same; Treatment. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., May 15th, i860, p. 148. Dr. Moore.—Affections of the Chest in Early Life ; Phthisis Pulmonalis ; Prognostic Value of Hcemoptysis. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Sep. 15th, i860, p. 275. J. Lewis Smith.—Report of Cases of Infantile Aff'ectmis; with Re- marks. N. Y. Journ. Med., May, i860, p. 345. Chabrely.—Observations on the Idiopathic Coryza of New-born Infants, and especially on the Syphilitic Coryza and the flat Mucous Pustules of Sucklings and Nurses. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 5 and 6 (from Journ. de Med. de Bordeaux). C. Hennig.—Enlargement and Tuberculosis of the Bronchial Glands. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859, P- l9- Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 63. Geo. S. Brekt.—On Fatal Effects arising from Enlargement of the Thymus Gland in Children. Lancet, Sept. 8th, i860, p. 236. Brent records a case of death in a child two and a half years old, which took place suddenly after " two convulsive fits." The tbymus gland weighed one ounce and a quarter. The other organs were perfectly healthy. Death was attributed to the enlargement of the thymus, which produced irritation of the recurrent nerves and spasmodic closure of the glottis. Clar.—Observations on Anomalies of the Thymus. Jahrb. f. Kind., 18^9, 3, p. 106. Canst., vol. iv, p. 392. Clar reports eight cases of anomalies of the thymus. Enlargement of this organ plays an important part, according to him, in giving rise, singly or combined with diseases of other parts, to fatal or dangerous results in infancy and early life. Friedleben.—On Thymic Asthma. Arch. f. Phys. Heillc, 1859, P* 326. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 323. ' Friedleben, who denies the existence of the disease called "thymicREPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 894 asthma," here subjects three enses, reported ns cases of thymic asthma by Schottin (see ' Year Book' for 18^9, p. 400), to a critical analysis. In reference to the first case, Friedleben denies tbnt the thymus was enlarged, and admitting enlargement to have been present, he denies the possibility of its producing pressure on the neighbouring organs. Further, supposing such pressure possible, a "mechanical" irritation of the recurrent nerve could not bo thought of. The "laryngismus" which Schottin describes as having been present in his first case did not possess, Friedleben observes, the chief phenomenon of laryngismus, viz., "apneea." In the second case, recovery took place; therefore no data were obtainable as to the actual condition of parts ; and in the third case there was not the slightest proof of the presence of any abnormal condition of the thymus. Ploss remarks (Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 324), on the above criticism, that the observations therein made would also apply, but with still greater force, to the cases reported as cases of thymic asthma by Clar. FitiEDLEBEN.-^-iVbtes on the ' Observations concerning Anomalies of the Thymus,' by Prof. Clar, of Gratz. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 9 and 10, In the interests of physiology and practice, Friedleben expresses his opinion, opposed to that of Clar, that neither in its normal nor in its hyper- trophied condition can the thymus give rise to laryngismus ; there is no such a thing as thymic asthma. He criticises the deductions drawn by Clar from cases related by the latter, and points out that conditions described by Clar as anomalies are really not so. Stiebel.—On Laryngeal Spasm. Lectures delivered at the Christ's Hospital for Children, Frankfort-on-the-Maine. Journ. f. Kind., July and Aug., 1859, 6. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 201. Jacobi (New York).—Lecture on Laryngismus Stridulus. New York Journ. Med., Jan., i860, p. 74. The author follows Friedleben in believing that hypertrophy of the thymus has no influence in producing the disease, and hence that the name " thymic asthma" is incorrect. He is of opinion that the symptoms of the first stage of laryngismus cannot be explained except by a func- tional trouble, by paralysis, perhaps of the medulla oblongata alone, perhaps of the nervous centres together. Disturbances of the vagus and sympathetic nerves, such as may be produced by troubles of the alimentary canal, superabundance of food, presence of a large number of ascarides, obstinate constipation produced by vicious nutrition and consecutive torpor of the muscular layer of the intestinal canal, may give rise to laryngismus. Dentition is not of itself so productive of the disease as usually supposed. In a few cases congenital hypertrophy of the thyroid gland has appeared to produce the disease. Hood's theory of the dependence of laryngismus stridulus on hypertrophy of the liver he dismisses as utterly untenable. As regards treatment during the attack, the only indication is " the thorough irritation of the respiratory muscles." The treatment of the general disposition and cause of the affection is more important. The general health is to be attended to, and every source of irritation removed.DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 895 Betz.—On Emphysema Pulmonum, produced by Hooping-cough. Mem. a. d. Praxis, 1859, iv, p. 7. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 31$. Wannebroucq.—On Hooping-cough, and particularly on the beat and Nature of that Affection. These, Paris, 1859. Dr. Fuller.—The successful Treatment of Hooping-cough by increasing doses of Sulphate of Zinc and Extract of Belladonna. Rep. of Harv. Soc, Med. Times and Gaz., May 26th, i860, p. 539, Fuller treats hooping-cough by giving to children under three years old one-sixth of a grain of extract of belladonna, and half a grain of sulphate of zinc four times daily. The dose is to be increased daily, or on alter- nate days. Moeller.—Hooping-cough. Report of the " Polykliniky Konigsberg. Med. Jahrb., vol. i, p. 3. Prof. Skoda.—Ore Hooping-cough. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., i860, 1. Schmidt, vol. 107,p. 198. Voss.—A Historical and Critical Examination of the Operation of Tracheotomy in Croup, with a Report of Fourteen Cases. New York Journ. Med., Jan., i860, p. 30. After giving a short historical account of the operation of tracheotomy in croup, the author discusses the following questions:—As to the propriety of the operation. When suffocation is imminent, and all other means have failed to relieve the patient, tracheotomy affords the only chance of saving life, and certainly in all cases of pure laryngeal croup. As regards the complication of laryngeal croup with pneumonia, he is of opinion that only bilateral pneumonia would forbid the operation. In regard to the time of performing the operation, his rule is to operate when respiration has been rendered insufficient, as shown by the com- mencing asphyxia, provided this state is not relieved by an emetic. He has not employed chloroform during the operation till recently, but pro- poses to use it in future. In the operation itself, resolute coolness, rather than a peculiar dexterity, is necessary. Three assistants are necessary. The instruments invented for the purpose of opening the trachea are next described. The best tube is the double one of Dr. Borgellat. Pure glycerine is used to dress the wound, applied every three or four hours. The precautions to be taken after the operation are next alluded to. Particulars of fourteen cases operated on by the author are then detailed. Eight boys were operated on, of ages ranging from two and a half to four and one sixth years;' of these two, aged respectively four and four and one sixth years, recovered, the other six died. There were six girls operated on, three of whom recovered, and three died. Fock.—Report on Twenty-four cases of Tracheotomy in the last stage of Croup. Deutsche Kl., 23, 24, 25, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 391. Of these twenty-four cases ten terminated favorably. The ages of the children varied from one and a quarter to nine years; fifteen were boys, nine girls. Fock's experience is, that the prognosis for the operation is most unfavorable where, from three to eight days previously, bronchial catarrh has been present, and croup symptoms have suddenly set in ; the pro- gnosis is more favorable in cases of simple croup. It is also more favorableREPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 39G in children with long, thin necks. Very close attendance after the operation is essential. James Spence.—Cases of Tracheotomy in Croup, with Clinical Remarks. Edinb. Med. Journ., Feb., i860, p. 693. Spence relates eight cases, which, with cases formerly reported, make together thirteen cases, in which tracheotomy was performed in croup ; in all, the patients were "in extremis" from threatened suffocation. Six thirteenths were saved. Further experience Las induced the author to become more and more favorable to the operation. Isnard.—Five Cases of Croup ; Four of Tracheotomy; successful inTwo. L'Union, 1859, 47. Erbenmeyer.—Case of Tracheotomy. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., 1859, 13' On Tracheotomy in Croup in Denmark. From Ugesk. for Laegev., vol. xxiv and xxv. Jour. f. Kind., 1859, 7 and 8, p. 26. Dr. MacSwiney.—Report of the History and Post-mortem Appearances in a fatal Case of " Croup," in which the Operation of Opening the Windpipe was performed. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Dec. 1st, i860, P- 355- Dr. Conway Evans.—On Tracheotomy in Croup. Edin. M. J., Jan., May, i860. Fenner.—Tracheotomy in Croup. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., Sept., i860, p. 54. Four cases of tracheotomy for croup are here recorded. All proved fatal, but in one case death took place twenty days after the operation. A case is also recorded of tracheotomy where the patient was affected with croupal symptoms ; recovery followed. Sendler (Magdeburg).—Tracheotomy in Croup. Prag. Viertel., 1859, vol. iii, p. 57. Sendler recommends the employment of a double cannula, in the inner one of which is inserted a conductor. The extremity of the cnnula is, by its means, rendered rounded and pyramidal in shape, so as to facilitate its introduction ; after which it is withdrawn. The length of the cannula should be at least two inches. The dorsal opening he considers useless and dangerous. Henriette. — On Tracheotomy in Croup. Presse Med. Beige, 34. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 8, i860, p. 247. Henriette states that, having almost completely abandoned this operation, he has lately had reason to place more confidence in it. The chief cause of failure is, he believes, delay. Geriiarut.—On Laryngeal Croup. Tubingen, 1859, pp. 88. N. Y. Journ. Med., March, i860, p. 284. An analysis of this work, stated to be " the last and the very best and most scientific treatise on the subject in existence," will be found in the New York Jour, of Medicine, p. 284.DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 397 Isnard.—Rational Treatment of Croup. Mon. des Sciences M6d. et Pharm., 1859, 23. Canst., vol. iv, p. 391. ■' Isnard attributes a peculiar efficacy to the internal and external use ot perchloride of iron in cases of croup. Pobges.—Attempt to explain the Nature of Croup. Wien. Wohnschr., 31,1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 391. Bouvier.—Case of Diphtheritic Angina and Croupin a Child; Laryngeal Catheterism ; Cure. Remarks on the Value of and Therapeutic Indi- cations for Laryngeal Catheterism. Bull, de Thc'r., vol. lviii, p. 175. ORGANS OP CIRCULATION. Grandidier.— On Spontaneous or Secondary Umbilical Haemorrhages in Children. Journ. f. Kind., 3 and 6, 1859, p. 380. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 68. The causes of the spontaneous or secondary umbilical haemorrhages here considered are—1. Too early separation of the cord, before formation of a thrombus in the vessels of the same. 2. Defective cicatrisation of the umbilicus, and formation of small fungous granulations. The author adds twenty-four cases to the 178 collected by Jenkins (' Report on Spontaneous Umbilical Haemorrhage of the Newly-born,' Philadelphia, J838), and has tabulated the whole 202. He is firmly of opinion, that a morbid con- dition of the blood is the chief cause of the haemorrhage. Umbilical haemorrhage is to be regarded as an inferior state of "hamophilie;" but this kind of haemorrhage, at the same time, very rarely happens in "hamophilie." The treatment was very unsuccessful. Better results are to be expected from prophylaxis directed to the condition of the mother during pregnancy. O'Connor.—Hemorrhage from the Navel seventeen days after Birth. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. nth, i860, p. 618. Groen.—Apoplexy of the Brain; Pycemia. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 1 and 2. Rauchfuss.—On Thrombosis of the Ductus Arteriosus. Virch. Archiv, vol. xvii, Nos. 5 and 6. DIGESTIVE ORGANS. J. B. Jacobi (Berlin).—On Congenital and Acquired Diseases of the Lips in Children. Journ. f. Kind., Jan. and Feb., i860, p. 44. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 60. Bley.—On the Chemical Reaction of the Secretion of the Mouth in Newly- born Children, in relation to the Development of Thrush. Gaz. dc Strasb., 1859, 10. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 64. In forty-six newly-born children the author found that the oral secretion was always alkaline during the first thirty-six or forty-eight hours after birth but that afterwards it was always acid. In infants suffering from thrush he found the secretion of the mouth to be remarkably acid, the norma]ItEPOET ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 398 reaction returning on the disappearance of the disease. His results as to the normal condition of the mouth-secretion agree with those of Seux, but differ from those of Gublcr and Guillot, who, as a rule, found the secretion in perfectly healthy children to be neutral. Jacobi (New York).—Course of Lectures on Dentition and its Derange- ments. Amer. Med. Times, Dec. 8th, ijtb, i860. The object of the author is to remove, what he conceives to be a popular prejudice, as to the fatal effects of teething. Betz.—On the Green Stools of Children. Mem. a. d. Prax., 7. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 202. The author rejects the opinion of Golding Bird and of Bednar, as to the cause of the green colour of the stools in infants. He states that the foeces may come from the rectum coloured green ; that when the faeces are acid, they very rapidly change their colour, and become green, after leaving the rectum; and that this change takes place more rapidly when the faeces are in contact with linen fabric (napkins) than when they are spread out on a glass plate, the contact with the atmosphere being more complete in the former than in the latter case. The clinical signification of the green stools of children is the presence of gastro-intestinal catarrh. Stoltz.—On Polypi of the Rectum in Children. Gaz. de Strasb., 1859. Journ. f. Kind., 5 and 6, i860. To this affection the author first directed attention in the year 1841. Since 1842 he has observed four cases in children, aged respectively 11, 4, 5, and 8 years. Thedor Clemens.—On the Membranous Inflammation of the Intestines (Entente Couenneuse) of Cows, and its relations to Intestinal Croup in Children; together ivith some Remarks on the physiological meaning of the Croupous Diathesis and its Prophylactic 1'reatment. Journ. f. Kind., 3 and 4, i860, p. 180. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 61. Theodor Clemens.—On the Intestinal Croup of Children. Journ. f. Kind., Jan. and Feb., i860, p. 30. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 312. The author has observed four interesting cases of intestinal croup, a disease not as yet accurately described. It does not accompany croup of the respiratory organs; it is quite a local affection, and not dangerous, except when large tracts of mucous membrane are affected. The fibrinous exudation may arrest the passage of the faices. When situated in the small intestine—the common event—there are diarrhoea, passage of half- digested matters, and frequently vomiting. Intestinal catarrh frequently precedes it.' During the height of the attack there are feverish exacer- bations ; when the disease persists a long time, emaciation and debility result. After the evacuation of the fibrinous exudation the cure rapidly follows. During the passage of these the patient is lively, and desirous of food, a circumstance distinguishing it from dysentery. It is more frequent in the country than in town populations. The author remarks on the fact that in the domestic animals, pigs, cows, &c, the intestinal and respiratory tracts are frequently the seat of plastic exudations ; and cases are cited to show how the intestinal croup of children is related to theDISEASES OF CHILDREN. 399 same affection in the cow, and generally to the croupous affections of domestic auimals. Dr. Blair. — Case of Intestinal Worms, terminating fatally. Edinb. Med. Journ., Dec, i860, p. 535. Naudin.—Imperforate Rectum, with Recto-vaginal Fistula; Operation. Journ. de Mc'd. de Toulouse, 5, i860. Loscjiner.—Leukaemia in Children, Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859, 1. Canst., vol. iv, p. 388. Loschner relates four cases where this condition was observed. All died, and all were similarly affected with enlargement and infiltration of the lymphatic glands, enlargement of the spleen and liver. A cachectic condition was always present. The symptoms were, great emaciation, haemorrhages from the nose, mouth, and intestinal canal, bronchial catarrh, asthmatic attacks, pleurisy, oedema, offensive perspirations. The blood Mras poor in fibrine. The special characteristic is a peculiar metamorphosis of texture, giving rise to tumours, situated partly in the glandular organs, partly in the subdermoid cellular tissue. In all the cases the blood-elements were markedly diseased, sometimes primarily, at other times secondarily. Dr. Jenneb.—Cases illustrating the Symptoms and Pathological Appear- ances of Albuminoid Infiltration of the Spleen, Lymphatic Glands, §-c, in Children. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 8th, i860, p. 533. Jeuner, in a series of papers, of which this is the first, wishes to call the attention of the profession to albuminoid disease, aud especially to albu- minoid disease of the spleen as observed in children—an affection rather common, but in this country rarely diagnosed. Two cases are reported at length—one that of a boy who died when one year and six months old, the other also that of a boy aged fifteen months. Both children were affected with rickets, with which this albuminous disease of the spleen is often associated. Both died from the softened state of the ribs diminishing the inspiratory power, and so necessitating pulmonary collapse. When the entrance of air was obstructed by mucus in the tubes, the deaths occurred rather suddenly. Both were extremely emaciated, and very pale. The spleen in both was enlarged, and pretty equably infiltrated with a colourless, transparent exudation. The edge of the liver was affected in a similar manner, as were also the lymphatic and mesenteric glands. Acute Yellow Atrophy of the Liver in a Child. Report from the St. Joseph's Children's Hospital, Vienna. Jahrb. f. Kind., vol. ii, p. 42. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 71. Bn UN niche.—On the Pathological Signification of Icterus in New-born Children. Journ. f. Kind., 3 and 4, i860. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 62. Jacobi (New York).—On Enlargement of the Infantile Liver. N. Y. Journ. Med., Jan., i860, p. 1. KIDNEYS AND GENERATIVE ORGANS. Gmelin.— On the Formation of Renal Calculi in Children. Wurt. Com Bl., 27, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 64.REPORT ON MIDWIl'EllY, ETC. 400 Uiilk.— On the Urine in Childhood. Wicn. Wohnschr., 7, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 401. In relation to the weight of the hody, a child from three to five years old secretes in twenty-four hours more than three times as much urine as a person from sixteen to eighteen years old ; quite three times more urea, and more than three times as much chloride of sodium. Boehm.—The Uric-acid Sediment in the Kidneys of Neiu-Lorn Children. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., 1859, 3 and 8. Bright's Disease of the Kidneys after Scarlet Fever. Report from the St. Joseph's Children's Hospital, Vienna. Schmidt, vol. ioj, P-7I- Involuntary Defecation and Micturition in Children, and their Treatment by Belladonna. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 7 and 8, p. 42. This is a resume" of Bercioux's and other recent observations on the efficacy of belladonna in such cases. The writer of the article states that the fact is certainly proved that belladonna has a peculiar action in cases of involuntary defecation and micturition, where there is no organic defect or spinal paralysis present. Textok.—Impermeable Urethra in an Infant relieved by an Operation. Wurzb. Verh. Phys. Med., x, 126. Med. Times and Gaz., June 9th, i860, p. 583. Timothy Holmes.—Fibro-nucleated Tumour of the Testicle from a very young Child. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 165. Timothy Holmes.—Tumour of the Testicle from a young Child. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 161. BONES AND JOINTS. Gueksant.—On Fractures in Children. Gaz. Hop., 73 and 87, i860. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 332. In the structure of the bones in children we find a predisposition to fracture. The bones resemble those of old people, in that the medullary canal of the long bones is longer and more capacious, and the walls of the diaphyses are thinner, than is the case in adults. In both childhood and old age, also, the muscles are weak. A special predisposition to fractures in children is the presence of rickets. Koch. — Cranio-tabes occurring epidemically. Wtirt. Corr. Bl., 28, Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 202. Within the space of a few months the author observed eight cases of this disease, the disease being at other times very rare in the district. Pour of the children were still at the breast, the others were weaned ; all were fed with milk, alone or together with other kinds of food. HiNK.—Extreme Congenital Rachitis, Cranio-tabes, and Rachitic Dis- tortion of the Hollow Bones of the Upper and Lower Extremities. Wien. Aerzt. Ztsch., ii, 7. Schmidt, vol. 107, p. 314.DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 401 Dr. Jenner.—J Series of Three Lectures on Rickets. Med. Times and Gnz., March 17th, April 7th, 28th, May 12th, i860, pp. 259, 333, 415, 465. Jenner, in a series of original lectures on the subject, considers rickets to be one of four great diathetic diseases of children; the other three being tuberculosis, scrofulosis, and syphilis. All these manifest themselves primarily by deviations from the standard of health, which deviations j)erse we do not call disease. In rickets we find the mental capacity small, muscular force deficient, mind and body inactive, figure short, closure of the fontanelles retarded, face small but broad, skin opaque, often set with downy hairs, dentition late, power of running alone and of talking late in arrival; teeth drop early from their sockets. The leading pathological tendencies are, softening of the bones, enlargement of the ends of the long bones, thickening of the flat bones and deformities consequent thereon, so-called hypertrophy of the white matter of the brain, chronic hydrocephalus, pulmonary collapse, laryngismus stridulus, convulsions, albuminoid infiltrations of the liver, spleen, lymphatic glands, &c. Jenner holds rickets to be quite distinct from tuberculosis or scro- fulosis. It is not a disease of the bones ; the change in the bones is only its anatomical character. The deformities which arise from pressure on the softened bones are next minutely detailed, and the mechanism of their production explained. Muscular action has, it is contended, no direct share in the production of curvature of the long bones in rickets. The thoracic deformity is due to atmospheric pressure, not to drawing in by the diaphragm. The rickety pelvis is more frequently triangular than oval. The fontanelles are late in closing, the head is square and the forehead projecting, owing to the defective development of the facial bones. The bones are affected as one organ. White patches are fre- quently found on the visceral pericardium. Emphysema and pulmonary collapse are constantly present, they are the results of the softened state of the ribs and of the consequent deformity. They may coexist, it is stated, without the emphysema being secondary to the collapse. The collapse has not, for its sole cause, obstruction of the bronchial tubes, although the cause in question is the common one. The great mortality of rickets is due to collapse of the lung; the extreme flexibility of the thoracic walls interferes with the passage of air in these parts, and mucus cannot be expelled. The emaciation is due to albuminoid infiltration of one or several organs, the lymphatic glands, the spleen, liver, and kidneys. As regards the symptoms of rickets, one of the earliest is profuse per- spiration of the head, or of the head, neck, and chest; a second is the desire to be cool, particularly at night; a third, general tenderness to touch, great indisposition to movement of all kinds ; the bones become next affected, and other derangements follow. The abdomen is very large. It is a mistake to suppose that the intellect is precocious. The great causes of death in rickets are— 1. Intensity of the general cachexia. 2. Catarrh and bronchitis. 3. Albuminoid infiltration of organs, especially of lymphatic gland and spleen. 4. Laryngismus stridulus. 5. Chronic hydro- cephalus. 6. Convulsions. 7. Diarrhoea. The causes of rickets are ; impure air constantly breathed; food insufficient in quantity or defective in quality; deficieut light; want of cleanliness; whatever, in fact, inter- 26REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. feres with nutrition, and so with the formation of good blood. The treatment should be based on the foregoing considerations as to the cause of the disease. Detailed instruction is given under this head. BouviEit.— On Distortions of the Spinal Column. Clinical Lectures at the Children's Hospital, Paris. Jouru. f. Kind., 1859, 7 and 8, p. 65; and 9 and 10, p. 218. Sciireber.—On the Prophylaxis of " Kyphosis Osteopathica." Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859, 3. GlBEKT.— Clinical Study of Coxahjia, observed in Children. Paris, 1859. Trousseau.—Rachitis. Clin. Europ., 20, 21, 22, 23, 18159. Mceller.—Acute Rachitis. Kcinigsberg. Med. Jahrb., 1859, vol. i, 3. Steffens.—Arthritic Rheumatism and Pyaemia. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 1 and 2. SKIN, CELLULAR TISSUE, ETC. Stiebel.—Six Clinical Lectures on Scarlet Fever. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 9 and 10, and 11 and 12. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 203. A. Clemens.—On Scarlet Fever. Journ. f. Kind., 1 and 2, i860. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 203. Clemens repudiates equally the stimulating treatment, the indiscrimi- nate use of cold, and the nihilism of the new schools. He has seen the best results from antiphlogistic treatment; above all, he disapproves of diaphoresis. Chrastina.—On Scarlet Fever. (Esterr. Zt. f. Prakt. Heilk., vol. v, p. 18. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 203. Siemon-Dawosky.—On Scarlet Fever. Mem. a. d. Praxis, vol. iv, p. 12. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 203. This author speaks favorably of the iuunction treatment of scarlet fever. Feitel.—On Scarlet Fever. Ungar. Ztsch., 1859, x, 3, 4. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 203. Eulenberg.—On Scarlet Fever. Preuss. Ver. Ztg., 1859, ii, 42. Schmidt, vol. ro8, p. 203. Deiters.—On Scarlet Fever. Deutsche Kl., 1859, 31, 32, 34. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 203. R. C. Fcerster.—On the Complication of Scai'let Fever and Tuber- culosis. Inaug. Diss. Leipzig, 1859, 8vo, pp. 20. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 203. Schmitzlein.—Scarlet Fever. 2d ed., Munich, 1859. Hambuhcin.—Epidemic of Scarlet Fever at Namur in 1855. On the use of Large Blisters in the consecutive Renal Affections. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 7 and 8. Fallor.—On Dropsy of Scarlet Fever, and its Treatment. Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 7 and 8. Schneeman.—The Curative Effects of the Lard-Inunction Treatment in Scarlet Fever and Measles, as shown by the Experience of others and by Reports of 100 Cases observed by the Author. 2d ed., Hamburg, 1859-DISEASES OP CHILDREN. 403 Aug. Schmitt.—On " Peliosis Itheumatica" of Children. Mem. a. d. Praxis, v, 3. Schmidt, vol. 107, P-3H- Mayr.—'Erythema Nodosum in Children. Jahrb. f. Kind., I, 2, p. 59. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 72. Seven cases form the basis of this communication. There are two forms of the affection—the simple and the complicated, the complications being pustular formations, hremorrhages, and oedema. For the simple disease, cold baths, cold drinks, and a cooling regimen, are re- commended. Bokamy.—Note on an Epidemic of Erythema—Gangrenous Intertrigo of the Ears, observed in Children at an early age. Monit. des Sc. Med. et Ph., 1859, 38, 39. Canst., vol. iv, p. 402. The locality of the epidemic was the department of the Pyrenees Orientales. Most of the children affected were at the breast. The want of cleanliness and attention seemed to be the actual cause; the heat was excessive, long-continued, and the atmosphere unusually dry. Dr. Banks— Rubeola, with Effusion of Pus into the Joints. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., April 2d, i860, p. 97. Herpes Tonsurans. Report from the SS. Ann and Joseph's Children's Hospital, Vienna. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1, 2, p. 85. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 72. Schueler.— Therapeutic Remarks on the Eczema of Children. Jahrb. f. Kind., 1859, ii, 3, p. 123. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 65. Dr. Hodges.— Case of Vaccination when the period of Incubation was One Year. Kep. of Obst. Soc. of London, Lancet, Nov. 17, 1860^.489, DYSCRASLE. Jonathan Hutchinson.—On Iritis as it occurs in Syphilitic Infants, Med. Times and Gaz., July 14th, i860, p. 31. Hutchinson gives a tabulated statement of twenty-one cases of syphilitic iritis in infants, which have been observed by himself (fifteen) and others (six). " Infantile iritis" is a term which may be used synonymously with " heredito-syphilitic iritis." The disease is very infrequent, often over- looked, and is attended with serious consequences; but its destructive effects on the sight may be easily prevented if a correct diagnosis be early formed; The conclusions to be drawn from the series of cases are as follows :—1. The female sex is far more subject to the disease than the male. 2. Syphilitic infants are most liable to it at about the age of five months. 3. Syphi- litic iritis is often symmetrical, but quite as frequently not so. 4. As it occurs in infants, it is seldom complicated, and it is attended by few of the more severe symptoms observed in the adult. 5. The effusion of lymph is usually very free, the danger of occlusion of the pupil great. 6. Mercurial treatment is most singularly efficacious in curing the disease and, if recent, in procuring the complete absorption of the effused lymph. 7. Mercurial treatment previously adopted does not prevent the occurrence of this form of iritis. 8. The subjects of infantile iritis, though often puny and cachectic, are also often apparently in good health. 9. One or other of the well-recognised symptoms of hereditary taint are almost alwaysREPORT OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. 404 present in infants suffering from iritis. 10. Most of those who suffer are infants born within a short period of the date of existence of the primary disease in their parents. North.—Infantile Iritis from Congenital Syphilis. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 3d., i860, p. 435. The infant was a female aged seven weeks, the mother had had venereal affections on two occasions. Treatment by mercury was successful. Barillier.—Congenital Syphilis; Transmission from an Infant to two Nurses; three Infants infected ivith Syphilis by Lactation. Jour, de M6d. de Bord., June, i860. Notta.—On Hereditary Syphilis. Arch. Ge*n., Jan., i860, p. 272. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 4th, 116. PAET IV.—DISEASES OE THE FOETUS, ETC. DOUBLE, SUPERNUMERARY, OR EXCESSIVE DEVELOPMENT. Paul BrocA;—Congenital Inequality of the Two Sides of the Body. Gaz. MeU; 29, 1859. The subject of the case, a boy set. 11, appeared as if made up of two lateral halves unequally developed. The asymmetrical condition had be- come increasingly evident as the child grew older. The left side was markedly the larger. Martin Saint-Ange.—Description of a Monster of the Genus " Phoco- mele" Compt. Rend., Dec. 10th, i860, p. 930. Hobart.—Case of Double Monster. Dub. Quart. Jour., May, i860, p. 328. Johnson.—Supernumerary Fingers, hereditary for five Generations. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Nov. 15th, i860, p. 348. Dr. Tanner.—Description of Two Foetal Monsters. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, P- 247- . Dr. Swayne.—Case of Double Monstrosity. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 320. The two fetuses, of unequal size, were united from the umbilicus to the top of the thorax. Two of the arms were united as far as the wrist. Girard de Cailleux.—Report on a Monstrosity of the Genus Xipho- dyme. Gaz. MeU, 1859, p. 105. Canst., vol. iv, p. 1. The monstrosity had two heads, each with a distinct neck, the right larger and more developed than the left. From the clavicle downwards the bodies were connected ; the thorax and abdomen of each combined to form a single body, with two lower extremities. Dr. Strutheks,—Description of a Case of Double Uterus. (With cuts.) Edinb. Med. Journ., Aug., i860, p. 145.405 DISEASES OF THE FCETUS, ETC. Spencer Wells.—Specimen of Spurious Hermaphroditism. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 158. This specimen, the property of the late Mr. Pilcher, having heen alluded to as the only known instance of true hermaphroditism, Mr. Spencer Wells proposed that a committee should be appointed to examine it anew. The committee (Dr. Wilks and Messrs. Curling and Wells) reported that the specimen exhibited some of the peculiarities of both sexes. The uterus and one ovary were present, showing clearly its feminine character. The bladder, prostate, and prolonged urethra, caused a strong resemblance to the male. The case was one of imperfect female development; the individual had passed through life as a female. Arthur E. Durham.—On Hermaphroditism. Guy's Hosp. Rep., i860. Seven cases are here related and reported on, in some of which the sex of the individual had been doubtful during life. The minute anatomy of the sexual organs, as revealed by dissection, are described, and some general conclusions are drawn on the subject of the morphology of the organs of generation iu the two sexes. Dr. John W. Ogle. — Malformation (by Excess) of the Peritoneum. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 107. Ed. Canton. — Fleshy Caudal Prolongation in an Infant. Lancet, Oct. 27th, i860, p. 411. Arthur E. Durham.—Peculiarities of the Genital Organs, and Extra- ordinary Development of the Mammae in a Male Subject. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 163. DEVIATIONS IN THE VASCULAR AND RESPIRATORY SYSTEMS ; DISEASES. Dr. Peacock. — Malformation of the Heart; Absence of Ductus Arte- riosus ; Small Size of the Pulmonary Artery; Aorta arising from both Ventricles; Irregular Course of the Aorta, fyc. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 40. The child was noticed to be unusually livid when three weeks old, and at the age of seven to eight months began to have suffocative attacks and convulsions. When it was excited, a loud systolic murmur was audible over the front of the chest. Death occurred from exhaustion following vomiting and diarrhoea at the age of eleven months. The defect originated, as the author supposes, in the imperfect development of the bronchial arches which usually go to the formation of the left aorta and ductus arteriosus; thus the pulmonary artery, receiving only the blood transmitted to the lungs during foetal life, remained permanently small. The right aorta was developed instead of the left. Dr. Peacock.—Case of Cyanosis, with Clinical Remarks. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 25th, i860, p. 186. Dr. Peacock.—Largely open Foramen Ovale, without Cyanosis. Trans Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 68. Dr. Wilks.—Communication between the Pulmonary Artery and Aorta Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 57.406 REPORT OX MIDWIFERYj ETC. Dr. Hark.—Malformation of the Heart ; Obstruction at the Aortic Orifice {only two valves); Open Ductus Arteriosus. Turns. Path. Sue., vol. xi, p. 47. Dr. H ake.—Malformation of the Heart; Contraction of the Pulmonary Orifice, with an Opening in the Septum Ventriculorum. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 45. Prof. IIvrtl.—An undescribed Case of Increase of the Primitive Aortic Branches. Zeits. f. Prakt. Heillc, 11, 186. Canst., vol. iv, p. 16. In Hyrtl's case the right vertebral artery was given off behind the left subclavian, the right subclavian being, as usual, a branch of the inno- minate. Dr. Sanders.—Open Ductus Arteriosus. Ediub. Med. Journ., July, i860, p. 76. Sturok.—Case of Cardiac Cyanosis, with Remarks. Rigaer Beitr., iv, 2. Canst., vol. iv, p. 12. In Sturok's case a cyanotic individual lived to the age of twenty-one, and died of tuberculosis of the lungs. Concerning the nature of the cyanotic condition of the skin, the author believes, with the majority of authorities, that it depends on the overloading of the peripheric vessels with venous blood; and that it may be produced in two ways, by a de- fective condition of either the heart or the lungs. The mortality in cases of cyanosis is greatest from the period of birth to the age of three years. Those cases live longest, in which the cause of the cyanosis is a patent condition of the foramen ovale only. Meyer (Zurich).—On Congenital Vesicular Malformation of the Lungs, together with some Remarks on Cyanosis in Affections of the Lungs. Virch. Arch., 1859, p. 78. Edmund Carver.—Obstruction of Bowels in Twins, which in each case depended upon Contraction of the Lower Part of the Ileum. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. nth, i860, p. 619. Dr. Druitt.—Case of Complete Obliteration of the Canal of the Small Intestine by Foetal Peritonitis ; Amussafs Operation. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 135. In Druitt's case the anus was well formed, but no motions were passed. Amussat's operation was performed without result. After death, which took place in fifty-six hours after birth, the small intestine was found glued together by adhesions at its middle portion; the intestine above was greatly distended. Houel.—Memoir on Congenital Encephalocele. Arch. Gen., Nov., 1859. J. S. Bostock.—Congenital Hydrocephalus. Lancet, Sept. 1st, i860, J. W." Fry. — Congenital Hydrocephalus. Laucet, Feb. 4th, i860, Giralde" — Congenital Cyst of the Neck; Death; Autopsy. Gaz. H6p., Jan. ioth, i860. _ Spencer Wells.—Case of large Congenital Encephaloid lumour, not impeding Delivery. (With drawing.) Obst. Trans., vol. 11, p. 27.407 DISEASES OF THE FCETUS, ETC. Ed. C. HtJIMB.—Congenital (?) Malignant Disease of the Right Eyeball. Med. Times and Gaz., July 14th, i860, p. 29. In Hulme's case there was extensive malignant disease of the eyeballs and base of the brain in a child who died a*. 2$ years. Shortly after birth a peculiar look was noticed in the right, and afterwards in the left, eye, and the eyeballs became too prominent. The author believes the disease to have been congenital. Birnbaum.—Anatomico-pathological Examination of a Congenital Luxa- tion of the Hip on the left side. Wien. Wohnschr., 3 and 4. Caust., vol. iv, p. 16. Holmes Coote.—On Congenital Dislocations of the Rip. Lancet, Dec. aad, i860, p. 609. t Holmes Coote gives a short risumS of the anatomical conditions present in cases of congenital dislocation of the hip. Many cases are, he believes, included under this head which have no right to be so denominated. He has not met with a case in which the deformity could be rectified, although the patients may gain power of walking freely, and the spinal curvature be lessened by proper apparatus. Dr. Alex. R. Simpson.—Case of Intra-uterine Smallpox. Edinb. Med. Journ., Nov., i860, p. 448. Dr. Bruce.—Case of lntra-uterine Smallpox. Edinb. Med. Journ., Nov., i860, p. 479. J. Jardine Murray.—Contributions to Teratology; undescribed Mal- formations of the Lower Lip occurring in Four Members of One Family. Brit, and For. Quart. Rev., Oct., i860, p. 50a. DEFECTS, ATRESI-E. Claudius.—On the Development of Acardiac Monsters. Kiel, 1859. Canst., vol. iv, p. 7. The work of Claudius is the result of an inquiry into the particulars of 112 cases of acardiac monsters. He finds that they are always one of twins; that they are always of the same sex as the normal foetus ; that there is always a fissure of the sternum present; that the whole body is never developed, either the upper or the lower half being more deve- loped than the remainder. There are two groups—1, the "acormi," without trunk; 2, the " acephali," without head. In a third of the cases there were no sexual organs. In the males the testicles were always found at the entrance of the inguinal canal. The kidneys were present in more than two thirds of the cases, with their ureters, bladder, and urachus. The lungs are almost always wanting, also the cceliac artery. The aorta divides into two branches. Near the aorta lie one or two venous canals, which are not the venae cavse, but the vessels from which the v. azygos and hemi-azygos are developed. Sometimes con- siderable cavernous enlargements of the venous system are met with. The whole capillary system of the placenta belongs to one (the sound) foetus ; and two large vessels, an artery and a vein, pass from the umbili- cal cord of the normal through the placenta to the place of insertion of the umbilical cord of the monstrosity. The blood, therefore, runs in the408 REPORT OX MIDWIFERY, ETC. umbilical cord of the latter in a reversed direction. There is a perfect series of transitions from the two perfectly separated placentas to that present in the case of the acardiac fcctns. First, we have the agglutinated double placenta of twins, with a double chorion, where only very small communicating branches exist. In the next category we have the appa- rently single placenta of a double ovum, with single chorion and two amnionic cavities. Next comes the actually single or acardiac placenta, with one capillary system, which belongs to the normal foetus. There is a fourth form, with a bifurcated umbilical cord; the result ljein<r equally the formation of an acardiac fcetus. Up to the time of the formation of the placenta and the anastomosis of the vessels, a perfectly functionally acting heart must have existed in each fcetus. The blood-wave from each heart then meeting, a recoil takes place towards each heart. As long as both hearts contract equally, both conspire to one end : but if one heart contracts less powerfully than the other, the result is that its action is overpowered by the other, and finally arrested alto- gether. Hence in the acardiac fcetus the current of the blood passing through the umbilical artery is reversed. There is less hindrance to the passage of blood into the organs which are near the entrance of the umbilical arteries into the hypogastric; hence the fact that in the acardiac fcetus the lower extremities and sides of the body, also the kidney and the rectum, are well developed. The origin of the acardiac fcetus may be as early as the fifth week. The first circumstance which gives rise to the formation of an acardiac fcetus is an accidental location of the placentar vessels of the two foetuses. Gross and Heim. — Rare Monstrosity, Hernia Cordis. Wurt. Corr. Elatt., No. 29. Canst., vol. iv, p. 12. Daniell.— Case of Ectopia Cordis. (Drawing.) Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 6th, i860, p. 776. The heart, denuded of its pericardium, projected through the chest walls. It> continued pulsating, more or less forcibly, for four hours after the birth of the child. In conclusion, the author collates analogous ob- servations of this rare malformation both at home and abroad. Heschl.—Defect of the Brain and Hydrocejrfialus. Prag. Viertel., 1859, vol. i, p. 59. Dr. Anstie.—Anencephalous Foetus. Path. Soc. Med. Times and Gaz., April 21st, i860, p. 408. Browne.—Congenital Malformation of the Pupils. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., June 15th, i860, p. 184. In a little girl, set. 10. the right pupil is transverse, and has a double aperture ; in the left it is single, but also transverse. Dr. Broca (de Sainte Foy).—Two cases of Spvia Bifda of the Lumbar Region in individuals who have lived to the adult age. Gaz. Hop., Aug. 4, i860. . The one that of a man, who lived to the age of 43 ; the other that of a girl, who lived to the age of 23.DISEASES OP THE FCETUS, ETC. 409 Gluge.—On a " Monstre Amorphe." Joum. de Med. dc Brux., May, 1859, 517. Canst., vol. iv, p. 7. William Curran.—Outline of a Case of Peculiar Displacement of the Stomach, resulting probably from Congenital Deficiency of the Diaphragm, and leading to Convulsions and Death from Extrava- sation of Blood on the Brain. Lancet, Dec. 29th, i860, p. 631. Gruber.—Inversion of the Urinary Bladder with Epispadias. Med. Zeit. Rassl., No. 49. Canst., vol. iv, p. 12. Knight.—Case of supposed Congenital Absence of Uterus and Occlusion of Vagina. Hosp. Hep., Med. Times and Gaz., July 14th, i860, P-33- Santesson.—Deficiency of the Lower Half of the Vagina ; Atresia of the Upper; Retention of the Menses; Operation. A month subse- quently, symptoms of Thrombosis in the Pelvic Veins of the Right. Side, the Right Iliac and Crural Veins, and the Vena Cava Inferior. Secondary Pleuro pneumonia ; Death. Hygiea, Oct., 1858. Trans- lated by W. D. Moore, M.B. Dub. Med. Press, Jan. nth, i860, p. 42. Dr. Priestley.—Congenital Extroversion of the Bladder. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 135. Dr. Meadows.—Case of Congenital Hernia of the Liver. Obst. Trans., vol. ii, p. 199. Schmit.—Absence of the Bladder, with Hypertrophy of the Right Kidney, and Development of its Pelvis, which served as a Reservoir for the Urine. J. de Me'd. de Brux., Oct., 1859, p. 352. The pelvis of the right kidney was large enough to contain four to five ounces ; its ureter was very long, and ended at the meatus urinarius. The left kidney was completely degenerated. The woman, Eet. 30, died of haematemesis. Goschler. Defective Formation of the External Genitals. Prag. Viertel., 1859, v°l- "i> P- 89. Bodenhamer. A Practical Treatise on the Etiology, Pathology, and Treatment of the Congenital Malformations of the Rectum and Anus. 8vo, New York, i860, S. S. and W. Wood, p. 368. This work contains a report of 287 cases, collected from various sources, of congenital malformations of the rectum and anus, and illus- trated by sixteen lithographic plates. It offers a complete risume of the works, essays, and scattered contributions on the subject published in different countries up to the present time. Athol Johnson.—Imperforate Rectum; performance of Littre's Ope- ration in the Left Groin ; Fatal Result two days afterwards. Lan- cet, March iolh, i860, p. 243. Minor.—Operations for Imperforate Anus. New York Journ. Med., May, 1860, p. 332. Med. Times and Gnz., June 23d, i860, p. 632. Out of five operations one has been successful. The author dilates the opening by means of an india-rubber finger-ball, introduced in a flaccid state, and then stuffed with cotton.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 410 Elleuslie Wallace.—Imperforate Rectum. Am. Med. Journ., April i860, p. 375. T. B. Curling.—Imperforate Anus in an Infant ; Operation ; Recovery. Med. Times and Gnz., July 28th, i860, p. 78. Friedb hug. On a Case of Congenital Closure of the Anus. Virch. Arch., 1859, 17, 147. Timothy Holmes.—Parts concerned in Littre's Operation for Artificial Anus. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xi, p. 99. The patient, a female, oet. 3 days, died after Littre's operation. It was found after death that, although the distended rectal pouch extended low down, it was so covered by the peritoneal pouch that the establish- ment of a communication from the anus would have been difficult. wounds, etc. Krulle.—On Injuries of the Foetus. Varges' Zeitscht., vol. xiv, p. 3. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 329. The author here gives the result of a critical survey of the recorded cases of injuries of the foetus. Most of those cases where the injury of the foetus is ascribed to the effect of a dull force exercised on the abdomen of the mother, such as a blow, a strain, a fall, &c, are really cases of ab- normal conditions of the foetal skeleton, and may be in some cases associated with solutions of continuity of the soft parts. That the fcetus may be injured or killed by blows, sharp instruments, &c, acting from without, cannot of course be doubted. He divides injuries into three classes : 1. Injuries of the bones of the fcetus, of the extremities, or of the trunk of the fcetus. Here the cause is often defective ossification of the bones. When the condition disappears before birth, the fractures may be found connected by callus. Many of the cases where fractures are found to exist after delivery, are to be set down as cases of fracture during delivery. When the bones of the foetus are not well ossified, there is no doubt that solutions of continuity may be produced in them by internal causes. The more the muscular system is developed, and the greater the movements of the fcetus, the more easily will this take place. A dull force, such as a fall, a blow, &c, cannot, it is contended, fracture the bones of the foetus unless it be so severe as to affect very obviously the mother also. Only a very great force would be sufficient so to compress the abdomeu as to fracture the bones ; the application of such force induces labour. It must be recollected, too, that pregnant women frequently suffer blows, falls.'&c, and yet fractures of the foetal bones are very rare. 2. Injuries of the cranial bones. There are few recorded cases in which the influence of external force in causing injury to the fcetal skull has been proved, and in such cases the mother has always been considerably injured. Injuries of the skull received during birth are characterised by the great distortion present. Respecting the influence of defective ossification in cases of injury to the fcetal cranial bones it is to be remarked, that a force applied to the head under such circumstances would more readily then than at other times produce an injury. 3. Injuries of the soft parts of the foetus. Contusions and blood-extravasations are more easily produced than frac- tures. Sometimes also we find wounds, the openings of abscesses, which it is411 DISEASES OE THE ECETUS, ETC. impossible to ascribe to the effect of external injury. In conclusion, the author finds that very few of the recorded cases prove what is intended; viz., that the injury of the foetus was caused by the application of a force from without. Dr. Hardy.—Spontaneous Amputation of the Forearm in XJtero. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., May ist, i860, p. 131. In this case the forearm of the left extremity was removed during uterine life. Four minute projections were found at the extremity of the stump. The child was well developed. Finkell.—Wound in Foetus. New York Journ. Med., Jan., i860, p. 99. The wound was just below the knee-joint, and separated the fibula from its epiphysis. The mother had received a stab just below the umbilicus a week before delivery. The foetus was dead.R E P 0 R T ON SPECIAL IEEEAPEUTICS. BY Dr. HANDFIELD JONES, Me. HULKE, AND Dr. GKAIIA" HEWITT. MEDICINE. Mania. (Ann. Med. Psych., 3 ser., v, Jan., 1859.) Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 105, p. 94.—Legrand du Saulle recommends opium to be ex- hibited in mania in the following manner. The dose is to be gradually increased, commencing with half a grain daily up to six grains, and then is to be omitted. The patient's excitement increases in most cases during the exhibition of the opium ; if calmness is produced, it is an unfavor- able sign. After the drug has been omitted recovery commences, and after some months is complete. During convalescence aphonia is common. The proportion of recoveries under this plan was seven out of ten in acute mania, and three out of twenty in chronic mania of more than one year's standing. In melancholia the treatment was fruitless. Sudor Miliaris. (Gaz. des Hopit.) Ann. par Jamain, i860, p. 7.— Daude gives one or two drops of perchloride of iron every hour from the commencement of the disease, only premising, if necessary, an emetic. The sweating is checked in less than twenty-four hours, the epigastralgia quieted, the paroxysms (of precordial distress and dyspnoea, Ed.) are kept off, and the pulse becomes less open, soft, and yielding. Cholera.—J. 0. Buchheister gives two drops of the Liquor Ferri Sesquichlorati in Asiatic Cholera (Berlin Med. Ztg., No. 41), Canst. Jahrb., vol. iv, p. 69, every half hour, and seltzer water to quench thirst. If reaction set in, no other remedy was required. Convalescence was short (six to twelve days), and interrupted by no secondary affections. Out of forty-five cases there were twenty-nine recoveries, sixteen deaths. Affile.—Hosia. says the double iodide of quinine and iron (Bull, de TheYap., No. 30), Canst. Jahrb., vol. iv, p. 72, is useful in inveterate ague, in early tuberculosis, and in anoemic and cachectic states.413 MEDICINE. Quinic Ether Inhalations in Ague. (Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 22.) Canst. Jahrb., vol. iv, p. 72.—Groh states that a scruple of this ether, inhaled during the cold stage, cut short the attack and prevented its return in eleven cases. Bonnafont and Sprengler have found inhalation of sulphuric ether also successful, and Whitehorn in America obtains the same result with chloroform. Epileptoid Intermittent Fever. (Journ. de Med. de Bruxelles, Jan., Feb.) Canst. Jahrb., vol. iv, p. 84.— Liegey has observed cases of eclamptic or epileptic intermittent fever. In the more chronic and apyretic form the disorder may easily be taken for epilepsy. It yields to quinine. Pommade for Acne. (Ann. de Therap., i860, p. 168.) — Rodet. R> Axungise, Jxij; Sulph. Sublimati, Tannini, im 5j ; Aquae Laurocerasi, 5j-M. ' Pumpkin Seeds in Taenia Solium. Lancet, Aug. 18th.—Tarneau di- rects ten drachms of the seeds, freed from their husks, to be made into an electuary with sugar and milk, and given to the patient, previously purged and kept on a low diet. A dose of castor oil two hours after. On the Treatment of Alcoholism. (Med. Zeit. Russland, 1859, No. 8.) Med. Times and Gaz., July 28th.—Smirnoff administers to habitual drunkards a glass of strong infusion of Asarum Europseum and of Vale- rian three or four times a day. The Asarum improves the appetite, supports the general power, and counteracts the invincible longing for alcohol. Dyspepsia. (Journ. de Med. et Chir. pratique.) Edin. Med. Journ., Feb., i860. —Beau's treatment of dyspepsia excludes almost absolutely narcotics, starvation, confinement to bed, and bloodletting. If there is gastric derangement he gives an emetic. Repeated blisters are useful to remove pains. Ice often arrests vomiting. Flatulence is treated with charcoal and magnesia (calcined). A solid diet will sometimes arrest vomiting, which is persistent with a liquid. Sulphurous baths, hydro- pathy, travelling, are often advantageous. Citric Acid in Acute Rheumatism. (Ann. M6d; de Flandre Occid.) Edin. Med. Journ., Jan., i860.—In forty-five cases of rheumatic fever Hartung gave citric acid to the amount of six drachms in from fifteen to thirty-six hours. In all the cases but two the result was very favorable. The affected parts were enveloped in wadding, and the patients were allowed to drink water freely. Typhoid Fever. (Bull. Gen. de Therap., June 30th, 1859.) Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., i860.—In the treatment of typhoid fever after purgation, at the outset, Monneret gives ice internally," and applies it to the abdomen, and in the second week administers quinine. Opiated Colchicum Wine in Rheumatism. (Bullet, de Therap., tome 5<5» P- 75-) Mpd- Times and Gaz., April 14th.—Eisenmann praises as pre-eminently efficacious in the treatment of rheumatism and cold-excited disorders (rheumatoid) a combination of Vin. Colch. 5xij, Tr. Opii, 5H.REPORT OX SPECIAL THERAPEUTICS. 414 M. iiixx ter die. Acute articular rheumatism is cut short usually from the third to fifth day; muscular rheumatism and rheumatic neuralgia are rapidly cured, as well as angina, pulmonary catarrli and influenza, gastric fever, catarrhal diarrhoea, and catarrho-rheumatic conjunctivitis. The Cure of Typhoid Fever. Lancet, April aist.—Brinton recom- mends emetics of ipecacuan wine once or twice a day for three or four days in cases of typhoid fever, if seen early. They are always harmless, in most instances extremely beneficial, in some instances they positively cut short the malady. Propylamine, a neio Remedy in Rheumatism. (Gaz. des II6pit., April, i860.) Edinb. Med. Journ., June, i860.—Propylamine is prepared by introducing into a retort a certain proportion of herring-brine, rendered strongly alkaline by potash, and distilling into a well-cooled condenser as long as the distillate exhales the odour of herring. The distilled liquid is to be saturated with hydrochloric acid, and evaporated to dryness, the hydrochlorate of propylamine being afterwards dissolved out by water. By adding very cautiously hydrate of lime the propylamine is obtained from the salt. Dr. Awenarius, at St. Petersburgh, has used it in 230 patients, and affirms that in every case pain and fever disappeared the clay after the administration of the remedy. He gives 20 drops in Jvj, 3j zdis horis. Treatment of Delirium Tremens by large doses of Digitalis. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 29th.—G. M. Jones administers ^ss of Tr. Digitalis, a second dose of gss in four hours, and in a few cases a third, which need not exceed Jij. Out of seventy cases digitalis failed in three only to produce sleep, in sixty-seven it was the only medicine used, and sixty-six of these recovered ; the fatal case was found to have a tirmour in the brain. Arsenic in Apoplectic Congestion. (Bull, de Therap., lvii, p. 192.) Med. Times and Gaz., July 14th—Lamare-Picquot strongly recommends the prolonged use of arsenic as an effectual means of subduing congestion likely to give rise to apoplexy. Delirium Tremens. Glasg. Med. Journ., Jan., i860.—Morton repro- bates the use of narcotics and stimulants, except under peculiar circum- stances, and advises the administration of tartar emetic, in doses varied to suit the case. Pycemia. (Arch. d. Heilk. i, 4, i860..) Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 108, p. 35. i—Roser recommends in the treatment of pyaemia plenty of fresh air and good, nourishing food, quinine and morphia. At the same time all decom- posing pus is to be washed away, disinfectants applied, and as little Sharpie used for dressing as possible. Pycemic patients should be isolated from others, visited last, and autopsies in fatal cases should not he made by the attending practitioner. Rbser ascribes diffuse inflam- mation and tetanus occurring after injuries to a miasm similar to that which causes pyaemia. Vesical Catarrh. (Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 2I2.)-Meinuard relates three cases, which resisted all other treatment, but were cured by two-gram doses of Pot. Iod.MEDICINE. 415 Mercurial Ointment in Peritonitis. (Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v, 22, 23, 1859.) Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 105, p. 180.—Innhauser gives two successful cases of peritonitis treated by mercurial inunction after other means had been used unsuccessfully. Salivation seems to have been nearly, but not actually, produced in either. Diarrhoea. (Bull. Gin. de Therap., June 30, 1859.) Brit. For. Med.- Chir. Rev., Jan., i860.—Eisenmann advocates the use of sulphate of copper and opium in the treatment of diarrhoea occasioned by dentition. Chloroform. (Bull. G6n. de Therap., May, 18,59.) Brit- and For- Med.- Ch. Rev., Jan., i860.—Fonsagrives praises chloroform as an excellent hypnotic in doses of v\y—x, given internally. The Therapeutic Value of the Galvanic Current. (Aerztl. Intell. Bl., No. 4.) Canst. Jahrb., vol. v, p. 124.—Baierlacher confirms Remak's statements as to the value of the continuous current in various cases, as neuralgias, pelvic contractions, even when the latter have been produced by lead-poisqping. He recommends changing the direction of tjjhe current frequently, as a means of increasing its efficacy. Electricity as a Curative Agent. (Deutsche Klinik, Nos. 26, 27.) Canst. Jahrb., vol. v, p. 131.—Clemens dwells on the utility of the various kinds of electricity, used either singly or in succession. In impotence and sterility, he has obtained excellent results from sparks or shocks. Tumours of the female breast, ovaries, testes, and thyroid, he reports to be fused down and dispersed by electric shocks and continuous currents. Dysmenorrhcea and various diseases of the uterus are also treated by the same means with great advantage. Recent Inquiries relative to the Effects of Mineral Waters (Loesch- ner's Report). Canst. Jahrb., vol. v, p. 140.—We can only refer to some of the principal papers analysed. Beneke examines accurately the action of the hot baths at Naulieim on the healthy and diseased system, as indicated by the changes in the pulse, respiration, excretions, and nutritive processes. Virchow has studied the effect of sea-bathing on the temperature, pulse, and respiration. Mess considers the effect°of sea- bathing on the system as determined—(1) by the chemical quality of the water, (2) by the force of the waves, (3) by the temperature of the water, (4) by that of the air. Advances in the Science of Hydriatrics in 18^9 (Schneider's Report) Canst. Jahrb., Bd.v, p. 171.—Bdcker (Moleschott's Untersuchung., vol.vij p. 51) describes the effect of sitz-baths, douches, and wet-packing on the excretions. A " Young Physician" (Bayer. Aerzt. Intell. Bl., 1859, 4L 48, 51) gives a clear exposition of the therapeutic action of cold water in its various modes of application, insisting principally on its stimulant and cooling effect. Schneider and Traube (Deutsche Klinik, i860, No ?) describe the good effect of wet-packings in typhus and scarlatina. Tartivel (Journ. du Progres, Nos. 4, 5, 9) has observed the benefit produced bv hydrotherapy in inveterate syphilis.- il R REPORT ON SPECIAL THERAPEUTICS. Gymnastic Exercises as a means of Cure. Canst. Jahrb., vol. v p. 187.—Contains reports of the value of passive movements in chronic disease of the joints, of shampooing and friction in sprains, of Swedish gymnastics in a case of complete palsy of the lower extremities, a pretty full account of the aetiology and treatment of habitual scoliosis bv Eulenberg (Vuch. Arch., 1859, Bd. xvii, Heft. 3, 4), and a notice of Neumann's attempt to apply forced inspiratory efforts to the treatment of acute and chronic disease. Chronic Bronchitis. (Pharmaceutical Journ., Feb., i860.)—Williams recommends the following pills :—9= Ammoniaci, gr. ij; Pulv. Ipecac, gr. h ; Morph. Mur., gr. £; Ammon. Carb., gr. ij ; Muc. Acac, q. b. M. et ft. pil. (to be varnished with Balsam of Tolu dissolved in chlo- roform) . SURGERY. Aneurism.—Syme, in axillary aneurism, prefers deligation of the affected vessel immediately above and below the sac, to ligature of the subclavian artery above the clavicle. Wounds.—The permanent submersion of wounds underwater, at 320 to 340 Reaumur, moderates the first inflammatory reaction, and is said to prevent pyaemia. Zeis has employed it with advantage in old ulcers of the leg, surrounded with greatly thickened integument. Szymanowski fashions his receptacles out of sheet india rubber, and joins the freshly cut edges by pressure after touching them with petroleum. Cicatrization.—Demarquay and Leconte have experimentally shown that carbonic acid hastens the process of cicatrization. Croup.—Trousseau says that tracheotomy is most successful where little medicine has been previously given. He lays great stress on per- forming the operation slowly, cutting the tissues layer by layer, and not opening the trachea till it has heen thoroughly exposed. Evans advocates the performance of the operation at an earlier stage of the disease than has hitherto been customary in England. Sloughing Wounds.—A dressing of coal-tar and plaster of Paris has been recommended by French surgeons in sloughing wounds; it deodorizes the discharge, and is said to favour cicatrization. Epithelioma.—Early and free excision gives much more favorable re- sults than in genuine carcinoma. Foreign Bodies.—Anselmier has detected with a magnetic needle small portions of iron buried in the tissues. Fractures.—Fractures which have united with much deformity may sometimes be advantageously broken again and reset in a better position. Plaster-of-Paris and dextrine bandages are coming into more general use. (Edema Glottidis.—Sloane reports the successful treatment of oedema of the glottis from scalds, with calomel and tartar emetic, given at short intervals.117 SUKUEIIY. Hamostatica.—The compression of arteries by a long pin passed trans- versely to the axis of the bleeding vessel, in such a manner as to include some of the tissues on either side of it, has been recommended by Simpson as a substitute for the common thread ligature. Hernia.—Wood's is the most promising of all the operations for the radical cure. Gosselin recommends a prolonged and forcible taxis in all cases of strangulated hernia during the first twenty-four hours, after which he thinks it may be dangerous. Rouse deprecates this practice. Chloroform is shown by Bryant to be a most valuable auxiliary to the taxis. GlGNAO has found it useful to invert and shake his patient. A similar posture has been recommended by Jjsssop. Strong coffee is recommended by some foreign surgeons; after a patient has taken a dozen cups or so, a hernia which had resisted the taxis is said to have spontaneously receded. Suppuration of Joints.—Chassaignac speaks highly of the use of drainage-tubes. In chronic synovial disease ScHUH has successfully em- ployed iodine injections. A valvular incision is preferable to a direct one for" the removal of loose cartilages. The very wide adoption of excision in cases in which formerly amputation would have been done, shows that this practice is rapidly gaining ground. Paracentesis.—Trousseau says, in tapping the chest, the trocar should be thrust rapidly through the pleura, in order to make sure of piercing the false membranes which may line it, and so avoid detaching them. In an able lecture on paracentesis of the pericardium, he lays down rules for this operation, and records cases where it was successful. Carter suggests that the belly should be tapped with a smaller trocar than that generally used, and that only enough fluid should be drawn off as suffices to relieve the prominent symptoms. Polypus.—Recently recorded cases prove that the removal of fibrous polypi, firmly rooted to the base of the skull and filling the nares, can be better effected by cutting away the front of the antrum than by splitting the hard and soft palates. Rectum.—H. Smith writes in favour of the application of strong nitric acid to moderate prolapses of the mucous membrane. Rest.—Hilton's lectures show the great importance of mechanical and physiological rest in accidents and surgical diseases. Rodent Ulcer.—Removal by caustics or the knife is, according to Hutchinson, the only efficient treatment. Stone.—Thompson insists on the great importance of an early diag- nosis, because, whilst still small, the stone may generally be destroyed with the lithotrite, even in children, and lithotomy avoided. Sutures.—Gustav Simon recommends horsehair as a good substitute for metal wire. Tetanus.—Physiological considerations and recently recorded facts are 27ii8 REPORT on special XttEBJLPBUTXOfi. in support of ft further trial of curara. Tinct. Aconiii teems to have acted beneficially iu some cases. Varicocele.—Subcutaneous division of the dilated spermatic veins, after compressing them above und below the point of intended section with a pin and twisted thread, is advocated by H. Lee. EbicH&BM and Jobeut DB Lamballe encircle the veins with n silver wire, which is allowed to cut its way out. MIDWIFERY AND DISEASES OF WOMEN. [See also Report on Midwifery, p. 360.] ■ Uterine Hcemorrhage.—It. Beverley Cole employs a firm crystal of alum, rounded at the edges, and so large as to fill the vagina. This is to he introduced, carried to the os uteri, and there retained for a time vary- ing from thirty minutes to twenty-four hours. San Francisco Med. Press, Jan. Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, i860, p. 717. Amenorrhea and Dysmenorrhea.—Deloume states that Apiol is a powerful emmenagogue. The dose, twenty-five centigrammes twice a day. Gaz. Hop., Sept. 20, i860. Puerperal Eclampsia.—In a case related by Dcpau, the patient had heen delivered three hours, and was in a comatose state, when chloro- form was first used. Death appeared imminent from convulsions. After three inhalations improvement took place, and the following day she had quite recovered. Journ. de Med. de Toulouse, March, 1859. In a case of puerperal convulsions (primipara) Scanzoni employed subcutaneous injection of morphia. The convulsions became less violeut afterwards ; subsequently to the injection, the delivery was effected by the forceps. Med. Times and Gaz., April 14, i860. Hysterical Paroxysm.—Briquet, believing that the hysterical paroxysm, when left to itself, becomes a predisposer to future attacks, is always in the habit of arresting it by means of chloroform. A small quantity of the vapour is sufficient, there appearing to be a peculiar susceptibility to the action of the drug under these circumstances. Arch. Gen., xiii, 664. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 7U1, i860, p. 19. Treatment of Leucorrhwa in Young Girls by Clysters of Colocynth.— An infusion is prepared, one colocynth fruit being enough for three doses. First, a simple enema is given, followed immediately by the infusion. It produces a large number of stools, the latter ones being bloody. This treatment is said to have proved very successful. Claude (Verdun), Journ. f. Kind., 1859, 9 and 10. Puerperal Fever.—Hadden (New York) reports a case where favorable results followed the use of infusion of digitalis, occasionally alternated with Tinct. Verat. Virid., in a case of puerperal fever in a pri- mipara. Serkes (d'Alais) has found digitalis of great efiicacy in cases of puer- peral fever. In eight out of nine cases a cure followed its use. It119 DISEASES OF WOMEN. was given in doses of a " granule" of digitnline ( = i milligramme, — 5i-T grain), every four, five, or six hours. The diet must at the same time be of a supporting nature. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 120. Temoin records the results of the employment of digitaline at the Maternite at Paris, under Delpech. It was given in doses of two to three or four " granules" per diem. The effect is not witnessed at once, but on the next day, or the day after that, when the frequency of the pulse becomes notably diminished. Of eight cases thus treated three were cured. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 124. Inertia of the Uterus.—In cases where, from a variety of circumstances, ergot cannot he employed, when the volume of the organ is augmented, and clots, &c, are retained, Delpech finds the special action of digitalis on the uterus very useful. It is to be employed in doses of fifteen to twenty drops of the alcoholic tincture. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 128. Freckles of Pregnancy.—When these persist after delivery, Hardy uses the following lotion :—Dist. water, 125 parts ; corros. sub., ^ part; spir. wine, 9 parts, to dissolve it; sulph. zinc, acetate of lead, of each 2 parts. If this fail, Bareges or Luchon water. Bull, de Therap., i860, April, 392. Med. Time3 and Gaz., June 9, i860, p. 583. Chronic Affections of the Ute7'iis.—The " Tintenquelle" of Medersdorf, a watering place near Wittenberg, Prussia, is stated by an anonymous writer in the ' Med. Times and Gaz.' (April 21, i860, p. 414) to be of great efficacy for the relief of chronic inflammation of the uterus. The water is a sulfo-aluminous chalybeate. Amenorrhea.—Riget recommends that iodine should be rubbed in over the abdomen in cases of menstrual suppression. Moniteur des Sciences, No. i3o. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 1, i860, p. 540. Leucorrhoza.—Pockels successfully employs secale cornutum and catechu, as much of each as will lie on the point of a knife, three times a day, in leucorrhoea from chronic diseases of the uterus. Varges' Ztst., 14, 7. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. ijth, i860, p. 270. Stomatitis Materna.—Bkandon, of Georgia, recommends turpentine, in doses of twelve drops, three times a day, for the cure of this affection ; castor oil or laudanum is combined, according to the state of the bowels. Am. Jour, of Med. Sc., April, i860, p. 576. This disease, " the result of a peculiar impoverishment of the blood, resulting from the tax upon its substance by the development of the foetus and subsequent lactation." Fountain has treated successfully by the "syrup of the phosphates." Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. i860, p. 89. Tannin Cylinders in Uterine Disease.—As employed by Becqueiiel, these are composed of—tannin 4 parts, tragacanth 1 part, and crumbs of bread ; they are made 5 millimetres in diameter, and 3 centimetres long. The cylin- der is introduced through the speculum into the uterus, by the aid of the long forceps, and retained in its place by charpie steeped in concentrated solution of tannin. In twelve hours the charpie is withdrawn, the cylin-^9 BBPQ1X ON special VBmAWsfbffi. der itself is then dissolved. Ia three or four days the operation is repeated, and so on. Under this treatment fungosities cense to be formed and hemorrhage is nrreBted. Ann. dc Ther., i860, p. 164. Vaginitis and Superficial Inflammation of the Cervix Uteri treated bu 1 anntn Ointment. FotJOHBB iinds the employment of tannin in this form preferable to injections. The ointment is made up in the form of a ball to which a thread is attached. After withdrawing the thread, an alum in- jection to be employed. Bull, de Then. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. i6r. Vaginitis.—VEiiMiqvkY employs a solution of 10 to 20 parts of tannin ni 100 parts of glycerine. A tampon, dipped in the solution, is introduced daily. Gaz. Hop., 1859, P- ™5' Vomiting of Pregnancy.—Corvisart finds pepsine invaluable in the se cases, if the vomiting be due to an altered condition of the gastric fluid. If dependent on sympathetic muscular irritability of the stomach, it is valueless. Miller, believing this symptom to be dependent on inflammation of the cervix uteri, paints the latter freely with ethereal tincture of iodine in order to cure the vomiting. Cases are cited to prove the utility of the practice. Bost. M. Journ., pp. 61, 70. Med. Times and Gaz., July 21st, i860, p. 64. DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Aphtha:.—Guillot finds the following local treatment very successful. Surrounding the finger with a piece of coarse linen, the whole of the inside of the mouth is rubbed with some force, so as to detach the crypto- gamous production. A stick of nitrate of silver is then passed gently over the tongue and parietes of the mouth. One application is generally enough. Rev. Med., Dec, 1859, P- 699- Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 14th, i860, p. 43. Flugtel washes the mouth several days in succession with a solution of kitchen salt. Rev. Med., March, p. 305. Med. Times and Gaz., April 14th, i860, p. 377. Ascarides.—Dr. Ogier Ward finds enemata of sulphuric ether effectual only at first, the ascarides appearing again subsequently. He believes that the common notion of the seat of the ascarides being the rectum is incorrect, and that it is probable their habitat is the sigmoid flexure or the cells of the colon. Brit. Med. Journ,, Oct. 6th, i860, p. 776. Brisbane finds a combination of santonine and castor oil very effi- cacious in the removal of ascarides {A. lumbricoides) ; 2 to 8 grs. of san- tonine mixed with castor oil at night, followed by a dose of senna next morning. Med. Times and Gaz., Juue 9, i860, p. 589. Hervieux finds castor oil the best of all purgatives. The daily in- jection of cold water is the best means to adopt when the oil cannot be taken. Bull, de Therap., pp. 56, 223. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 11, i860, p. 149. Compekat recommends repeated injection of sulphuric ether, diluted with water. h'Union Med., July 19, 1859.DISEASES OE CHILDREN. 421 Convulsions in Children.—Hardee employs the ethereal tincture of valerian, in closes of four to six drops every fifteen to thirty minutes, and has found it highly heneficinl in several cases. Atlanta Med. and Surg. Journ., Sept., i860. Dentition Syrup.—Delabaree's syrup is composed of fresh tamarind syrup, honey, and saffron. It is ruhbed on the gums of the infant. Ann. de Thcr., i860, p. 176. Erysipelas around the Umbilicus of Infants.—Legroux smears the affected part with glycerine; it is then powdered over with a mixture of equal parts of calomel, starch, and tan, to be renewed two or three times a day. Gaz. Hop., May 12, i860. Incontinence of Urine.—The extract of rhus radicans was successfully employed by Descotes in a case of incontinence of urine, combined with general atony, in a girl aged twelve. The medicine was given for eight days in form of pills, 5 centigrammes per diem. It was necessary to leave it off occasionally on account of its producing giddiness ; but the disease was after a time cured by its means. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 58. Debolt uses with advantage gum mastic, 8 drachms, mixed with a sufficient quantity of syrup, and divided into 64 or 128 pills. The whole to be taken within four days, i. e. 1 drachm morning and evening, two hours before or after a meal. In more than two thirds of the cases a cure is effected. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 97. Ncevus.—Bujalsky effected the removal of a naevus from the temple of a new-born child, by pencilling the growth twice a day for three months with creasote. Med. Zeit. Russl., p. 38. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 7U1, i860, p. 20. Ophthalmia Neonatorum.—Foucher employs a collyrium composed of glycerine, 30 grammes, and nitrate of silver, 10 to 20 centigrammes ; a drop of the collyrium to be applied by means of a camel's-hair brush, after v ashing the eye with a weak solution of chloride of soda (of the codex). Ann. de Thcr., i860, p. 252. Hooping-cough.—Hochsteker regards the oxide of zinc as a specific. To infants, two to four months old, 1 or 2 grains are to be given daily ; at a later age, 3 to 10 grains. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 258. Fleiiinger uses chloroform in combination with olive oil (equal parts) in a liniment, which is to be rubbed on the breast, sides, and back. If bronchitis is present, inhalation short of producing anEesthesia is recom- mended ; 15 to 20 drops on cotton, every two hours. Memorab. aus der Praxis, p. 30, 1859. Am. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., i860, p. 159. Ascherley gives to infants, six months old, nitric acid, diluted with tincture of canella, syrup and water, in increasing doses, 5 to 15 drops every three hours. Frictions of the chest by means of a stimulating embrocation. Ann. de Ther., i860, p. 170. Affections of the Respiratory Organs in Children.—Jacobi finds sul- phuret of antimony of great service after the acute stage of pertussis, pneumonia, and bronchitis in children; 1 grain every two hours inREPORT ON SPECIAL THERAPEUTICS. children one year old, nnd 2 grains, from four to eight times daily, in children two to three yenrs old. Journ. f. Kind., Sept. nnd Oct., 1859. Prolapsus ani in Children.—FOCOHEB treated n case of prolapsus ani in n child nged 4, by subcutaneous injection of jo drops of a solution of sulphate of strychnia, in the strength of 20 centigrammes to 20 grammes of water. A second injection of 14 drops at the end of twenty-four hours was followed by cure. Gaz. Hop., July 14, i860. Semaxas.—Treatise on Frictions with Quinia in Diseases of Children. Paris nnd Lyons, 1859, p. 223. N. Y. Journ. Med., March, i860, p. 283. The author administers quinia externally, believing that in this manner the same result is obtained n3 by internal administration of the drug. The epidermis, it is stated, absorbs so much of the medicine as is required for the cure, nnd no more. Ringworm.—Little stntes that Brazilian powder, or powder of Bahia, mixed into a paste with lime-juice or vinegar, and rubbed into the part affected, removes the disease after three or four applications. Its applica- tion gives no pain. Edinb. Med. Journ., April, i860, p. 966.REPORT • ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. BY J. BURDON SANDERSON, M.D., MEMBER OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS ; LECTURER ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE AND PUBLIC HEALTH AT ST. MARY'S HOSPITAL; ASSISTANT- PHYSICIAN TO THE HOSPITAL FOR CONSUMPTION, BROMFTON ; MEDICAL OFFICER OF HEALTH FOR PADDINGTON, MANUALS AND GENERAL TREATISES. Henke.—Text-book of Legal Medicine in aid of Academical Lectures, and for the use of Practitioners of Medicine and Laio. 13th edition, with appendices, by Prof. Carl Bergmann, of Rostock. Berlin, 1859, Canst., vol. vii, p. 1. In the appendices to the new edition of this well-known work, Prof. Bergmann has, in opposition to the doubtfully expressed opinion of the author, bronglit forward additional proofs illustrative of the practical importance and real value of the lung test. He has further given an abridged synopsis of the chemical researches on poisons of Prof. Franz Schulze, and extracts from the criminal codes and proceedings of the crimi- nal courts in the principal German states. Lazzahetti.—Forensic Medicine, or a Rational Method of Solving the Questions which present themselves to the Medical Practitioner in Civil and Criminal Proceedings, 1859. Abstract from Anal. Bibliog. of Dr. Turschetti, Milan, 1859. Canst., yol. vii, p. 1. This book is an attempt to bring the principles of civil and criminal jurisprudence into relation with those of the anthropological sciences. It is divided into three parts. The first is devoted to the determination of the limits of moral responsibility as influenced by the various relations and conditions of life, such as age, sex, temperament, race, &c. In treat- ing of race, the author communicates exact observations on cretinism, and on the relation between the form of the skull and the varieties of the human race. The psychological parts of the work are more completely • elaborated than any other. Abnormal mental conditions are carefully described with reference to their causes, phenomena, and medico-legal bearings, in relation to which the philosophical views of Kant and Rosmini are taken as n basis. The second part includes all questionsItEPOltT ON I.EdAI, M EDK'INE AND Pl'M,TC 11YG1KN E. relating to marriage, inheritance, viability of the foetus, birth, and preg- nancy. The third part treats of all those cases in which scientific research is called for in relation to crime. DaMBRE.—A Treatise on Legal Medicine and the Jurisprudence of Medi- cine, ist vol., Ghent, 1859. Canst,, vol. vii, p. 1. This bonk is intended to afford to the Belgian practitioner a complete practical guide in all his duties in relation to the administration of public justice. The first part, on the jurisprudence of medicine, is entirely prac- tical. It treats of the rights and obligations of the medical or scientific witness, medical fees and charges, the responsibilities of the medical practitioner, and all matters commonly included under the term medi- cal ethics. The second part is devoted to legal medicine strictly so called, which is understood by the authors to be the expression of all the rela- tions which exist between law and legislation and the medical and natural sciences. Beck; Gieman.—Elements of'Medical-Jurisprudence. Philadelphia, i860. This edition contains new contributions by well-known American authors, by which the treatise is advanced to the present state of the science. It is edited by Dr. Gilman, of New York, who is the author of much of the additional matter. Wundebbar.—Biblico-tahnudical Medicine. New series, part 2, State Medicine and Med. Jur. of the Ancient Israelites. Canst., vol. vii, P- I. Kaliscii.—Medico-legal Opinions of the Royal Prussian Scientific Com- mission for Medical Affairs, 1840-50. Leipsic, 1859. Canst., vol. vii, p. 1. Guekdan.—The Absolute Necessity of the Study of the Genettco-histo- rical Methods of Diseases, from the point of view of State Medi- cine, §'c. Deut. Zeitsch., vol. xiv, p. 197. Casper.—Tract. Handbook of Forensic Medicine, elaborated from origi- nal Experience. In 2 vols., with an atlas and 10 coloured plates. 3d edition, enlarged and revised, r. Biological part, pp. 680. 2. Thanatological part, pp. 913. Berlin, i860. BODILY INJURIES AIvD WOUNDS. Santlus.-— The Medico-legal and Judicial Principle of Punishment in respect of Corporeal Injuries. Henke, vol. xl, part i, pp. 95-146. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 82. The author disapproves of the usually accepted principle that the degree of punishment should be determined by the consequences of the act that is, by the disability consequent upon it; it should rather depend on'the decree of the lesion, that is to say, on the nature and quality of the injury itself. He is of opinion that this must be estimated in relation to—(1) the antecedent instrumentality of the act, (2) the organ which is . aflected, and (3) the disturbance of function induced thereby. He pro- poses to found a classification of injuries in relation to punishment, in the first place, on disturbance of function, with regard to which he distin-WOUNDS AND INJURIES. 425 gnishes between those in which no such disturbance exists, those in which important functions are deranged, and those in which all function is annihilated; these distinctions being farther qualified in relation to locality, time, and instrumentality. The author sees in the adoption of his views the only means by which the gap which now exists between the physician and the judge may be bridged over, and the discrimination of lesions in relation to the punishment they deserve may be freed from the distortion to which it is subject according as it is regarded in a medical or judicial aspect. Toulmouciie.—On the Lesions of the Cranium, and of the Organ it con- tains, considered in a Medico-legal point of view. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xii, p. 395, and vol. xiii, pp. 143, 399. Impressed with the necessity of studying the lesions to which injuries of the head give rise, in a more methodical and positive manner than has been hitherto done, the author has minutely recorded a large number of observations of the post-mortem results of such injuries, and has added to each observation a commentary, having for its object to point out the inferences derivable from the lesions found, as to the nature of the instru- ment, the intensity and direction of the force employed, the duration of life after the injury, and the immediate cause of death. Injuries of the head are divided into three categories. Of these the first comprises wounds of the integuments, and involves the discrimination of the nature of the implement, the determination of the mode in which the injury has been inflicted, the duration of the consequent incapacity for work, and the inference derivable from the appearances of cicatrices regarding the time which has elapsed since the act. The following is a summary of the ob- servations. Obs. I. Incised wound of the left side of forehead; conse- quent erysipelas of face, and phlegmonous abscess of the same side of neck; death by meningitis. Obs. IX. Wounds of the scalp; question whether produced by a fall or by violence, by a cutting or pointed instru- ment ; consequent erysipelas and phlegmonous inflammation of the scalp, and fatal arachnitis. Obs. in. Wounds of the scalp above the right ear, inflicted by a stab from a knife, the direction of which was inwards and forwards. Obs. iv, v, and VI. Various cases of contusion. Obs. vn. Extensive incised wound of the scalp above the left ear, directed forwards, upwards, and to the right, and accompanied with contusions ; consequent fatal haemorrhage. Obs. Tin. Wound of the left side of the head, by a blow from a blunt instrument, directed forwards and upwards ; incapacity for work for more than twenty days. Obs. ix and x. Cases in which inferences as to the lapse of time since the injury were drawn from the appearances of cicatrices. Obs. xi. Injury of the lower jaw; inferences as to the nature of the injury, and duration of incapacity for work, derived from the cicatrix. The second section comprises injuries of the head attended with frac- ture. Of these twenty-two observations are recorded, which are divided according to the medico-legal significance of the lesions found. The following is a summary of their most prominent points. In Obs. xi, xn, and xiii, the lesions were of such a nature as to indicate that death had occurred instantaneously—contused wound with fracture and very exten-REPOKT Of LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. 426 sive superficinl effusion of blood, consequent on blows inflicted on tliree individuals with tbc snme weapon—an iron bnr. Obs. xiv. Similar injury and mode of death ; superficial and iutra-ventriculnr sanguineous effusion. Obs. xvi. Similar injury ; primary laceration of brain and very exten- sive haemorrhage external to dura mater ; consecutive cephalitis and arach- nitis; extent of lesions immediately consequent on injury sucb ns to imply immediate death ; this inference contradicted by existence of se- condary lesions; actual duration of case, four days. Obs. xvn. Blow from a flint; fracture of frontal bone, effusion of blood and " puril'orm albumen" external to dura mater. Tbe patient, a female, aet. 24, was able to follow her occupation until twelve days after the injury, when symptoms of compression appeared suddenly, followed by death in five hours ; inference, that the injury was not essentially mortal. Obs. xvni. Blow from a sharp stone; abscess of anterior lobe of left hemisphere; arachnitis of right side. Obs. xix. Ecchymosis of the eyelids, fracture of the bones of tbe nose; immediate loss of consciousness; recovery. Obs. xx. Contu- sions of face and head, no fracture; slight effusion of blood on the surface of brain and in tbe left internal temporal fossa ; inference, sudden cerebral congestion occasioned by a fall down a stone staircase, followed immediately by concussion and sligbt haemorrhage. Obs. xxi. Fall and blows on the right side of head ; extensive superficial sanguineous effusion ; absence of lesion of integuments or fracture; pre-existing softening of right optic thalamus : inference, that lesions were dependent secondarily on previous disease. Obs. xxn. During life, fracture of inferior maxillary bone; haemorrhage from the nose and ears: inference, fracture of base. Obs. xxili. Fracture of base and of right parietal, frontal, and temporal bones ; double effusion of blood; 1, superficial, subjacent to fracture; 2, in the left internal temporal fossa: inference, that the injury was consequent on a fall. Obs. xxiv (during life). Case of fracture of the base, consequent on a fall during a quarrel. Obs. XXV. Extensive sanguineous effusion both internal and external to dura mater; depressed fracture of frontal, of right and left parietal and temporal bones ; absence of external wound ; inference, that the injury was occasioned instantaneously by a very violent blow with an instrument of great breadth. The third section is devoted to "diseases of the brain and its membranes which have given rise, in consequence of ill-founded charges, to judicial autopsies without result," viz., "cerebral congestion, meningitis, acute hydrocephalics, apoplexy, and eclampsia." Obs. xxvi. Cerebral conges- tion aud pulmonary apoplexy; absence of indications of violence ; sudden death during the act of digestion. Obs. XXVII. Suspicion of poisoning; arachnitis; absence of all indications of toxical action; analysis with negative result. Obs. XXVIII. Suspicion of violence; arachnitis with central softening. Obs. xxix. Suspicion of violence; serous effusion not only in the ventricles, but also at the surface of the brain ; abscess of the spleen, purulent absorption. Obs. xxx. Suspicion of violence; enormous effusion of blood in the ventricular cavity. Obs. xxxi. Serous effusion in the cavity of the arachnoid, and in the ventricles of the brain; violent blows on other parts of the body, inflicted twelve days previously. Obs. xxxii. A child, aet. 12 ; convulsions occasioned by bundles of lumbrici in the small intestine ; cerebral congestion: improper adminis- tration of brandy and pepper.427 WOUNDS AND INJURIES. FITS.*..—Remarkable Case of Traumatic Inflammation of the Sinuses of the Skull. A Contribution to the Diagnosis of Injuries of the Head. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, p. i. The injuries consisted in sabre wounds involving the periosteum, and penetrating the bone at the left temple and mastoid process. Daring the first four weeks, slowness of pulse was the only cerebral symptom. At the end of that period, sudden acceleration of the pulse, pyaemia, lobular pneumonia, phlebitis of the internal jugular, and death in three days. Three of the wounds were cicatrized, but the fourth was still open, and at the root of the mastoid process there was a loss of substance as large as a bean. This wound was covered with gray pus and finely granular exu- dation, and the hone was roughened around the neighbouring vena emissaria. The dura mater of the basilar process was covered with a layer of exudation ; the left sigmoid and petrosal sinuses and both cavernous sinuses were filled with pus. There was, thus, purulent infection of the cerebral blood, by direct entrance of the pus from the wound into the neighbouring transverse sinus, through the vena emissaria mastoidea. Taudieu.—Medico-Legal Study on Ill-Usage and Maltreatment of Children. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xiii, p. 361. This paper is devoted to the injuries inflicted on children by parents, schoolmasters, and others. The injuries are various, inflicted by the hand or fist, or by instruments of every imaginable kind. The victims are usually children of tender age ; of the cases related, seventeen of the sub- jects were under five years, seven under ten, four between eleven and fourteen, and in two cases the cruelties had continued till the age of seventeen. In twenty-four cases they were inflicted by the parents, in four by schoolmasters, and in one by a mistress on an apprentice. The poor children exposed to ill-treatment were pale and emaciated, and exhi- bited the aspects of precocious decrepitude ; but it was wonderful to observe how rapidly they recovered when removed from the charge of their tormentors. Of the thirty-two cases, eighteen terminated fatally ; in some, death was the direct result of a single act of violence ; in others, the child died during the act of cruelty, death occurring by the mere effect of the ill-treatment without any necessarily mortal wound. Such are the cases of prolonged flogging of which, in addition to one recorded by himself, the author cites two others (" Considerations Med. Lc'g. sur deux cas assez cares d'Aberration mcntale," Ann. d'Hyg. 1853) related by M. Toulmouche. In a third category are included the cases in which privations of all kinds induced a gradual constitutional exhaustion, terminating in death or a fatal disease. The paper is accompanied by a collection of observations, of which the first series contains cases of mere ill-treatment; the second, cases of ill-treatment accompanied with horrible tortures, not fatal; the third, fatal cases. Takdieu.—Observations and Experiments on Combustion of the Human Body, and on Gun-shot Wounds. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xiii, p. 124. In April, 1859, a man was found in his house supposed to be murdered. He had received a gun-shot wound in the region of the heart, and the clothes covering the chest were on fire. The hands were also severely burnt. It was suggested that the fire had been kindled by the powder, and that the weapon had been discharged at a very short distance. WithItEPOltT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. a view of determining the exnct time of the supposed murder, the question was submitted to the Academy of Medicine " to determine as precisely as possible, according to the condition of the body and the facts related, the duration of the combustion." The conclusions arrived at were, that it was almost impossible that the burning of the dress and integuments should have resulted by communication from the burning powder, especially as the part of the shirt at which the shot was received was not destroyed j that on the opposite supposition the burning of the hands could not be explained, and that it was impossible to determine the duration of the combustion. The paper contains important experiments undertaken with a view to the elucidation of the effects of the discharge of firearms at very short distances, in setting fire to different textile materials. Tardieu.—Medico-Legal Investigation of a Case of Violent Death Ly Gun-shot. Question of Suicide or Accident. Ann. d'llyg., vol. xiii, P« 443- On the 7th of September, 185S, a traveller took a cab at the Lyons railway station ; the driver, as he was passing along the Boulevard Beaumarchais, heard a report of firearms in the carriage; and, on stop- ping, found his fare sitting in the left corner with his legs crossed; a double-barrelled gun, with the left barrel discharged, rested against the front of the carriage on the right side. The direction of the wound showed that the charge entered above the left eyebrow, and passed almost horizontally from right to left, carrying away the left side of the skull. The author demonstrated, from the direction of the wound, from the obliquity implied by it in the position of the gun considered in relation to the smallness of the carriage, that the shot must have been premeditated and suicidal. Moller.—On the Influence of strong External Pressure on the Production of Sugillation. Casper, vol.xvii, p. 85, Jan., i860. Schmidt, 105, p. 52. For the investigation of this question the author experimented on animals. The limbs or other parts operated upon were placed between two boards, which were suddenly forcibly approximated either by a screw or a heavy weight of iron; the pressure was kept up for twenty minutes, the animals having been previously etherized. No sugillations took place excepting in parts which wrere protected, and in cases in which the animal could not be restrained from movements of such violence as to interfere with the pressure. The investigation arose out of a case in which the body of a man was found compressed between the stones of a mill. Schroter.—Fracture of the Basis Cranii, and Fracture with Depres- sion of the Calvarium. Sero-sanguineous Discharge from the Ears. Med. Corresp. Blatt., vol. xxix, p. 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 8. A case, which terminated favorably, in which a diagnosis of fracture of the base of the cranium was founded on profuse haemorrhage into the pharynx, as well as from the nostrils and right ear, discharge of cerebro- spinal fluid from the latter, and paralysis of the auditory, oculo-motorius and abducens nerves. Doll.—Judgment and Opinion on an Injury of the Head, tvith Depres- sion of Bone. Ocst. Zeitsch., vol. v, p. 16. . . _jAVOUNDS AND INJU1UKS. 429 Hoffmann.—Practice of Legal Medicine. Deut. Zeitscli., vol. xiv, part 2. Case i. Penetrating wound of the skull; injury of the meningeal artery; effusion of blood into the cranial cavity ; injury of the bruin and its membranes. Case 2. Ill-treatment, consisting in pressure on the windpipe and a blow on the stomach; convulsions; gastric disorder and dysphagia attributed to fracture of a laryngeal cartilage; improbability of this form of injury; incapacity for work lasting two and a half months. Case 4. Fracture of skull by a sling ; inflammation of the brain with sup- puration ; death. Jothnek.—Two Cases of fatal Somatic Injuries. Deut. Zeitsch. Neue Folge, vol. xiv, part 2. Two cases of fracture of the skull complicated with extravasation, inflammation of the brain and its membranes, and suppuration. Kaliscii (loc. cit.)—Case 5. Injury of the Head, with Extravasation into the Cranial Cavity. Case 11. Severe Injury of (he Brain; Trephining; two Splinters of Bone left in the substance of the Bruin. Question of Mala Praxis. Adler.—Injuries of the Blood-vessels. Friedreich, vol. x, part 1. Canst., vol. vii, p. 8. An inaugural dissertation, in which the injuries of blood-vessels arc studied in a medico-legal point of view. The author has minutely analysed the possible sources of danger in forty-one varieties of injury. Weule.—On the Medico-Legal Discrimination of Injuries. Ungar. Zeitsch., vol. x, p. 43. Toulmouciie.—Penetrating Wounds of the Chest, in their Clinical and Medico-Legal Aspects. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xi, p. 456. Masciika.—Abortion consequent on a Blow on the Belly. Peritonitis terminating fatally in the absence of medical a&sistance. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, p. 20. Thomas.—Medico-Legal Criticism of Injuries of the Liver. Friedreich, vol. x, part 3. Hofmann.—Accusation of Burglary and Theft, $-c. Ilenke, vol. xxxix, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 7. B'ucii?)EK.—Permanent or Transitory Incapacity for Work? Super- arbitrium in a case of Injury to the Spinal Marrow. Deut. Zeitsch., vol. xiv, 2, p. 356. KituGKLSTEiN.— Cruel Treatment of an Old Man by Exposure and Starvation. Ilenke, vol. xl, p. 147. Klob.— Frequency of Hypostatic Pneumo)iia in Elderly Persons, and the Influence of the same on the Medico-Legal Discrimination of slight Injuries ivhich confine the patient to bed. Wieu. Ztsch. N. P. vol. iii, p. 21. Langendouf.—Medico-Legal Discrimination of the Consequences of Immoderate Punishments inflicted on Children by Parents and Guar- dians. Deut. Ztsch. N. P., vol. xv. p.'3. Takdieu.- Observations and Experiments on the Effects of the Discharge of a Cannon loaded with Powder, Sfc. Ann. d'llye:., vol. xi, p. 410 An investigation arising out of a case of fracture of the forearm with extravasation, alleged to have been produced by waddingKEi'OUT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND i'OBLlC HYGIENE. 1.80 Konig. — In what way did the mortal Gunshot Wound happen to the Forester? Henke, vol. xxxix, part I. FftlOKHOPBEt—Medicolegal opinion OTI a case in which Gunshot Wound was complicated with other injuries. Casper, vol. xvi, part I. HASOHEK.—Bodily 1 Violence to a Pregnant Woman. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, pp. 17, 18, 19. Canst., vol. vii, p. 6. Case in which nbortion was supposed to be consequent on an injury to a woman in the sixth month of pregnancy. Siebenhaau.— Contributions to the Medico-legal knowledge of Injuries of the Head. Henke, vol. xl, p. 177. Vogt.—A case of Injury in a Medico-legal point of view. Schweiz. Mon. Schr., vol. iv, p. 277. Weule.—Contribution to the Medico-legal Discrimination of Injuries. Ungar. Ztschr., vol. x, p. 43. Haschek.—On cases of Injuries of the Head in their Medico-legal re- lations. Wien. Ztschr., N. F., vol. iii, p. 18. BLOOD-STAINS. Robin and Tardieu.—On the Microscopical Examinations of different kinds of Stains. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xiii, p. 416. This paper consists of a series of observations by the authors made on stains submitted to them in the course of medico-legal inquiries. The in- vestigations were of the following nature:—viz., the examination of blood- stains with reference to the question of the sex of the individual; of stains supposed to be sanguineous, but in reality fly-marks ; of spots of varnish ; of stains consisting of blood mixed M'ith epidermis and the downy hairs of a new-born infant (satisfactory proof was obtained that the garment on which the spots were found must have been in contact with the body of a fcetus immediately after birth) ; of stains presumed to be of meconium, proved to consist of expectoration; lastly, spermatic stains. In all of these cases the conclusions of the authors were derived, for the most part, from microscopic examination, and they afford a remarkable illustration of the superiority of the microscope over the older methods, as a means of appreciating all kinds of stains. V. Kletzinsky.— On certain Analytical Applications of Glycerine, and on the Jlcematosine Test. Oest. Ztschr., vol. v, p. 42. Canst., vol. vii, p. 13. Glycerine, according to the author, may be more advantageously em- ployed for the purpose of dissolving out dried remains of blood-stains than syrup, which is commonjy in use, as being liable neither to become acid nor to the development of spores of fungi, as having the property of readily soaking, penetrating fatty tissues, and as being much more readily incinerated. For this purpose the glycerine of commerce must be thoroughly pounded with one tenth of its weight of pure carbonate ofBLOOD-STAINS. 4.31 baryta, or one twentieth of pure chalk ; in this manner the glycerine is deprived of its acid reaction. It is now to be filtered and diluted with eight times its volume of distilled water. The product is a very stable liquid, of about 1028 sp. gr. In order to demonstrate the change of colour from red into green, so characteristic of the colouring matter of the blood, Kletzinsky employs phosphate of magnesia. Three grammes of magnesia are to be made into a milk with 100 centimetres of distilled water, to which thirty centimetres of dilute phosphoric acid, of the specific gravity of 113 (15 per cent., PO5), are to be added, and after digesting for some time, to be filtered, and reduced by evaporation to the volume of one litre. Of this liquid, which contains about eight per cent, of phosphate of magnesia, one cubic centimetre is sufficient to give a distinct indication of hsematine, on adding it to the suspected liquid in an ordinary test-tube, in which it has been previously heated with potash. If hsematine be present, the precipitated phosphate of magnesia will collect at the bottom of the test-tube, of a more or less distinct blood colour, edged with green. A second method for the same purpose consists in precipitating with ammonia a solution of alum. The hydrate of alumina thus obtained is to be thoroughly washed on a filter, dissolved in caustic potash, and the solution evaporated to the volume of one litre. The suspected liquid is to be heated with two cubic centimetres of this solution. On the addi- tion of one cubic centimetre of concentrated solution of chloride of ammo- nium, a precipitate of hydrate of alumina is obtained, which is to be allowed to stand for several hours; it will then display, if hsematine be present, a very distinct dichromatism, in which green is the prevalent colour. BiiciiNER and Simon.—Researches on Hcemin Crystals, and on their leyal import. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xv, parts 1 and 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 1.3. The following process for the detection of blood-stains is recommended by the authors as best adapted for medico-legal purposes. After sepa- rating the colouring matter of the stain from the object on which it is found, whether by mechanical means in the case of articles of wood or clothing, or by gently healing those made of iron, the effect of which is to make the stain peel off in scales, it is to be digested in acetic acid, with the aid of heat, until the acid becomes distinctly red, or reddish. From this solution crystals may be obtained by evaporation. Mure.xide, both with and without acetic acid, forms crystals, which re- semble those of hoemin both in form and colour; but the colour of the evaporated liquid, and its reaction with hydrochloric acid and potash, are perfectly distinctive. Hydrochloric acid decomposes murexide, and potash dissolves it of an indigo-blue colour. Scriba.—On a Characteristic Property of Blood-stains. N. Jahrbuch r. Fharmacie, vol. xi, p. 289. This paper relates to the medico-legal application of Teichmann's dis- covery, that blood yields, with acetic acid, rhomboidal crystals, of a sub- stance to which he assigns the name of hcemin, in contradistinction to1^2 KKl'OKT UN JJSOAL MEDICINE AND PUfiiaC HYGIENE. the crystals of htematoidine observed iu blood left to itself. The slain 18 to be introduced into a test-tube, and boiled with glacial acetic acid • a lew drops of the liquid are to be evaporated on a glass at about 1200 JJRlrr., and examined under the microscope. 'J'be composition of the crystals, as determined by M. Merck, is 85 per ceut. of organic matter and Ij per cent, of sesquioxide of iron. IIklleu and Kletzinsky.—Opinion and Remit on a Chemico-legal Anabj- sis of bloodstains on a Hammer. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v 12 i\ Canst., vol. vii, p. 13. ' ' 9* In this case a hammer was submitted to examination by maceration with syrup, and subsequent treatment of the solution with nitric acid and potash. By the former test albumen was discovered, and on adding phosphate of magnesia, as described above, the presence of hsematine was also indicated. Iron was detected in the saccharine solution by sulphide of ammonium, ferrocyanide, and sulphoeyanide of potassium. Finally, the addition of glacial acetic acid under the microscope yielded charac- teristic crystals of hoematine. Meyeii.—Report on the result 0/the Microscopical and Chemical Exami- nation of a portion of Clothing ivith reference to Blood-staint. Casper, vol. xvi, part 1. Fleischer.—Question of Blood or Soot. Casper, vol. xvi, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 13. Black stains found in the mucous membrane of the stomach of a smelter, and supposed to consist of blood, were found to be soot. ItiTTER.— Contribution to the History of the Medical Detection of Blood- stains. Ilenke, vol. lxxx, p. 31. Mequel.—On the Detection of Bloodstains. Dent. Klin., No. 19. SUDDEN AND VIOLENT DEATHS ; MEDICO-LEGAL INVESTIGATION OF THE CAUSE AND MODE OF DEATH. Tardieu.— On Strangulation. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xi, p. 107. Tardieu gives, first, an historical sketch of the modes of strangulation, which he distinguishes into two forms, according as a ligature or the hand has been employed, and dwells upon the great variety which presents itself in the signs of strangling, which are dependent upon corresponding varieties in the duration of the constriction, the strength of the strangler, and the prolongation of the death struggle ; the ordinary external indica- tions of this kind of death are then described, as they exhibit themselves in the physiognomy and general aspect, the consequences produced by the resistance of the victim, and the mark of the constricting body. The injuries of internal organs consist in extravasations in the cellular tissue of the muscular layers of the region of the hyoid bone, aud anterior surface of the larynx and trachea; in rare instances, fracture ol the cartilages of the larynx, and luxation and fracture of the hyoid bone; various degrees of congestion of the mucous membrane of the air-passages, which contain reddish froth, with minute bubbles; general infiltration and uniform ro?e colour of the lungs, with almost constant rupture of theSUDDEN AND VIOLENT DEATHS, ETC. superficial air-vesicles, with emphysema of various extent; apoplectic clots in the substance of the lungs, but no sub-pleural ecchymosis In con- clusion, the author points out the application of these facts to the solution of the various medico-legal questions which arise in cases of death by suffocation. Acke R.MANN.—Researches on the Influence of Suffocation on the Quantity of Blood in the Brain and Lunys, tyc. Virch. Arch., vol. xv, parts 5, 6. Canst, vol. vii, p. 10. From experiments conducted according to Professor Donders' improved method of rendering visible the condition of the circulation of the brain in the living animal, the author concludes that death by suffocation is always connected with anaemia of the brain, the appearances of hypereemia often observed after death being the mere result of a post- mortem mechanical sinking of the blood. The appearances of anaemia of the brain are most observable if the animal is strangled in such a position that the head lies higher than the body, and are even dis- tinguishable if the head is somewhat lower. In other organs the author recognises the ordinary appearances of death by suffocation, viz., dark-red injection of the trachea, dark marbled appearance of the lungs, which in their posterior and internal parts are of a dirty blue or blackish-red colour; ecchymosis of the pleura, and often of the anterior wall of the ascending aorta ; some emphysema of the margins of the lungs ; impletion of the pulmonary artery and right side of the heart with dark blood ; variable quantity and colour of the contents of the left side of the heart; and venous engorgement of the veins of the abdominal cavity. The proximate cause of the anaemia of the brain is to be sought for in com- pensatory changes of the quantity of the cerebro-spinal fluid; the other causes are the gravity of the blood, the contractility of the vessels of the encephalon, and the action of the heart. In reference to the hypersemia of the lungs of persons suffocated, it is maintained that it is consequent on the difference of atmospheric pressure which is exerted on the outer and inner wall of the thoracic cavity, by means of which is also explained the unequal fulness of the two sides of the heart; and further, that the inconstancy of the cyanosis of the veins of the face, neck, and head, dependent upon the retardation of the stream of blood in the thoracic cavity, may be accounted for according to the nature of the compression of the neck and chest, and the mode in which the air-passages are closed. As, therefore, the quantity of blood in the thoracic organs is merely an expression of the duration and mode of obstruction to respiration, and as, further, cerebral anaemia is a regular accompaniment of death by suffoca- tiou, we are justified in having recourse to apoplexia nervosa, or neural paralysis, as an explanation of those cases of suffocation in which paleness of the brain or lungs is observed. The circumstance that the proximate causes of death by suffocation—the retention of carbonic acid in the blood, and the exclusion therefrom of oxygen—leave behind them no changes that are capable of anatomical demonstration, justify the conclusion that there exist no characteristic signs of death by suffocation. Ciiamhert.—Medico-leyal Researches on the Differences of Burns during Life and after Death. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xi, p. 34a. 28REPORT OS LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. Girl of twelve Years. Casper, vol. xvi, p. 30 5. 484 Voglkk. Death by Delirium Traumaticum, or Delirium Tremens. ' Henke, vol. xxxix, part 2. Langkndouee.—Inquiry respecting the Mode of Death of P. P-, found burnt in her room; Report and Opinion on the Autopsy. Deut. Zeitsch., vol. xiii, part 1. Mahklin.— On the Supervention of Rigor after Death by Lightning. Casper, vol. xvi, p. 331. Maschka.—Contribution to Medico-leyal Practice. Assault with Robbery—Strangled or Frozen ? Oest. Ztscli., vol. vi, p. 9. Parrot.—On apparent Death. Diss. Inaug. Paris, i860. Beau.—Experiments on Death by Drowning. Arch. Gen., vol. xvi, p. 84. Schindlek.—Suffocation ; whether occasioned by an Internal or External Cause? Casper, vol. xvii, p. 299. Blosfeld.—Medico legal Synopsis of Causes of Death; particularly on Death by Freezing, in reference to its Conditions and Causes. Henke, vol. lxxx, p. 147. Moller.—Discovery of Hyoscyamin in the Body; notwithstanding, mode of Death doubtful. Casper, vol. xviii, p. 78. Maschka.—Medico-legal Contributions. Cnsper, vol. xv, part 1. Case 2. Blow on the Back; Phlegmon; Pyaemia; Death. Uncertain de- pendence of this result on the Injury. Kalisch.—Loc. cit. Case 8. Question of Cause of Death; various violent Injuries ; Exposure and Starvation during a cold winter night. Case 13. Neglect of several fatal Injuries. Zeising.—Case of Intentional Fatal Personal Violence, committed by several individuals. Casper, vol. xvi, part 2. Canst, vol. vii, 6. Case of death by serous apoplexy, consequent on numerous blows and injuries ; question of cause of death. Angerstein.—Suicide by hammering in of a Wire Tack and introduction of Sewing Needles into the Brain. Casper, vol. xvii, part 1. Brierre deBoismont.—Medico-legal Researches on Suicide by Firearms, with reference to a Doubtful Case. Ann. MeM. Psychol., 3d ser., vol. v, p. 586. Schmidt.— Case of Attempted Hanging. Deut. Ztsch., vol. xiv, p. 104. Borchard.—Medico-legal Cases of Sudden Death. Journ. de Bord., 2d ser., Jan., i860. Borchard.—Suicide or Murder of a Prisoner confined with another. Journ. de Bord., 2d ser., vol. v, p. 175. Des Etangs.— Studies on Voluntary Death; Political Suicide in France, from 1789 to the present time. Paris, 8vo., p. 535, i860. Borchard.—Suicide by Strangulation.—Journ. de Bord., 2d ser., vol. v, p. 349. Mandy.—On Suicidal Mania, and on the Suicide of Count Szechenyi in its Medico legal relations. Journ. de Brux., vol. xxxi, p. 193. Maschka.—Mark of Cord, and incised Wound of Neck; question of Murder or Suicide. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, p. 49. B'unau.—Incendiarism and Poisoning by Phosphorus, accomplished by aSUDDEN AND VIOLENT DEATHS, ETC. 135 Cessneu.—Accusation of Murder. Oest. Ztsch., vol. v, 52. Haktung.—Murder or Suicide. Casper, vol. xvii, pp. 105—116. Huber.— Apparent Death, and Inspection of Bead Bodies. Oest. Ztsch., Nusser.-Contributions to the Practice of Medical Police ; Suicide by Firearms; Simulation of Birth. Oest. Ztsch., vol. v, 48. Richer.—Murder by the Introduction of the Body into a Mill at work. Casper, vol. xvii, p. 33. Rosstock.—Murder of a newly born Child by preventing Respiration, without perceptible External Indications of Violence. Henke, vol. xl, p. 160. Niemann.—Medico-legal Autopsies; Third Hundred. Henke, vol. xxxix, part 2. Beath in consequence of being run over. — 1. Run over; lacera- tion of the diaphragm, with rupture of the lung, liver, spleen, and kidneys. 2. The same; injury of several organs; fracture of the ribs ; partial emphysema. 3. Fracture of the ribs on both sides ; pene- tration of splinters into the cavity of the thorax. 4. Fracture of the ribs, with extensive emphysema. 5. Laceration of jejunum, conse- quent on a blow from the pole of a carriage. 6. Fracture of the bones of the skull. 7. Fracture of the base of the cranium. 8. Laceration of the liver ; survival fourteen days. 9. Laceration of posterior surface of right lung. 10. Laceration of lung. 11. Fracture of os pubis. 12. Injury of the bladder and rectum. Gun-shot injuries.—13. Suicide; injury of liver, spleen, pancreas, and heart. 14. Comminuted fracture of the hones of the head; question of suicide. 15. Gun-shot wound of knee; death from tetanus at the tenth day. 16. Ditto of thigh; death by tetanus. 17. Ditto of arm ; injury of ribs, lungs, diaphragm, spleen, liver, and stomach. 18. Ditto of mesentery and jejunum. 19. Ditto, with a conical ball, entering the stomach, diaphragm, and thorax, without injury of the lungs or heart. 20. Ditto, with comminuted fracture of the pubis, and injury of the bladder. ..21. Ditto of thorax; several shots. 22. Ditto of pericardium and heart, spleen, and right arm. 23. Ditto, with small shot, of thigh; death by gangrene. 24. Ditto of the temples ; separation of the periosteum and dura mater; death from intra-cranial suppuration. Injuries of the head.—2<J. Depression of bone with ex- travasation. 26. Penetrating wound ; fissure with depression. 27. Injury with a hammer; cerebral suppuration. 28. Injury of head; depression with suppuration. 29. Injury of frontal bone ; cerebral suppuration. 30. Fracture of nasal bones; arachnitis. 31. Injury of orbit by a pitchfork; extravasation. 32. Longitudinal fissure of base of cranium. 33. Injury of the head; fissure of petrous portion of temporal bone. 34. Fracture of the skull, consequent on a fall, with injuries of the ex- tremities and laceration of the lungs. 35. Fracture of the bones of the skull, with softening of the brain. 36. Fracture of the skull. 37. Frac- ture of the cervical vertebrae, consequent on a fall from a height. 38. Violence to the head ; cause of death doubtful. 39. Stigillations on the head and knee-joint; apoplexy. 40. Violence to the head ; burns ; death by pneumonia. 41. Various injuries ; death consequent on a boxEEPOET ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. on the ear; arachnitis. 42. Similar'. 43. Violence to the head ; chronic inflammation of brain after two months ; death six months after the in- jury. 44. Violent injury to the head; death from effusion, consequent on arachnitis, on the seventh day. 45. Case in which death, probably consequent on a fall, was attributed to violence to the head. 46. Case in which death by cholera was attributed to violence. 47. Death by violence ; autopsy thirteen days after. Injuries of the yreat vessels of the lungs, heart, and liver.—48, 49. Murder, by injury to the great vessels of the neck. 50. Laceration of the left auricle of the heart, by a fall from a window. 51. Fatal injury of the heart (Herzens Mittels) by a scimitar wound. 52. Fatal injury of the lungs and internal mammary artery. 53. Fatal injury of the liver by the fall of a sack from a crane. 54. Rupture of the liver and lungs in a woman advanced in pregnancy, in consequence of a fall from a window ; Csesarean section after death. Injuries of the extremities.—59. Fracture of the clavicle, attributed to a blow ; caries ; pulmonary abscess. 60. Various injuries consequent on a fall from a window of a pregnant woman ; Caesarean section after death. 61. Dislocation and fracture of the clavicle ; dislocation of the humerus; death from pleuritis and peritonitis. Death by strangulation and suffocation.—63. Suffocation ; injury of the head ; fracture of lower jaw. 64. Strangling not drowning ; mark of a noose (Stangrinne mit einem Knebel). 65. Suffocation. 66. Ditto, with burn. 67. Death at- tributed to forcible suffocation, proved to be by tuberculosis.— Death by Burning.—68, 69. Almost complete combustion of one body ; partial of two others. 70. Death by burning. 71. Ditto; rupture of liver. 72. Ditto; question of suicide. 73. Ditto; separation of the head from the body. POISONS AND POISONING. i. Poisons in general. Niemann (loc. cit, part 3).—Death by Poisomny.—89. Poisoning by nitric acid. 90. By sulphuric acid. 91, 92. By sulphate of zinc. 93. By arsenic ; exhumation after a year and a half. 94. Suspicion of poisoning; exhumation after a year and three quarters. 95. Poisoning by arsenic; death in fifty-eight hours. 96. Ditto ; death in twenty-seven hours; arsenic discovered in the blood. 97. By green water-colours ; chemical examination without result. 98. By arsenic ; death in twenty- four hours. 99, 100. By arsenic, of two children; death in thirty-nine hours. Fabek. — Toxicoloyical Fraymenis. Deut. Ztschr., vol. xv, part 2, p. 299; vol. xvi, parts 1, 2, pp. 109, 252. Casper.—The Chemical Criterium in doubtful Cases of Poisomny. Cas- per, vol. xvii, p. 177. Hellek and V. Kletzinsky.-Examination of the Stomach of Herr von Bruclt. Wien. Med. Wchnsch., No. 19. Hofmann.—Examination of a Body that had been several years buried, on suspicion of Poisoniny by Arsenic. Henke, vol. xxxix, p. 286.487 POISONS AND POISONING. 2. Mineral Acids. Ogle.—Effects of Poisoning by Sulphuric Acid. Trans. Path. Soo., vol. xi, p. 294. T. H—, a servant, who had lost money by betting, was observed to stagger and fall in the street. On being brought to hospital immediately after, he was in a state of collapse, from which he never rallied, and died nine hours after admission. On examination of the body, the mouth, lips, and part of the chin were found to be charred and desiccated. The stomach contained about a pint of " reddish, acid fluid." There M'as extreme congestion of the mucous membrane of the oesophagus, and destruction, with charred appearance, of the smaller curvature and pyloric end of the stomach, the neighbouring parts, as well as the mucous membrane of the duodenum, being of a " dark-reddish brown." From the suddenness with which the symptoms came on, as well as from the appearances after death, the author concludes that "the poison had been taken in a very concentrated form, and in tolerably large quantity." Budd.—Poisoning by Nitric Acid. Lancet, Nov. 24th. J. D—, set. 36, was admitted, May 2d, into St. George's Hospital, eight weeks after taking an ounce of "aqua fortis" in beer. There were epigastric pain, vomiting after food, pyrosis—the vomited liquid being neutral—and constipation, extreme exhaustion and emaciation. He lin- gered in hospital till October 2d, the symptoms being from time to time relieved by opium. At the autopsy "a distinct cicatrix, with puckering and induration of the surrounding mucous membrane near the pyloric extremity of the stomach," was found. The other organs were healthy. 3. Oxalic Acid. Thxjdichuji.—Experiments on Oxalic Acid and Oatmeal Gruel. Med. Times, April 21st, Skinner.—Bemarks on the above. Med. Times, April 28th. Dr. Thudichum communicates the results of experiments consisting in the administration to unsuspecting persons of gruel containing oxalic acid. He concludes that this substance cannot be administered without the knowledge of the recipient if it contain as much as ten grains to the pint, much less if it contain a poisonous dose. He further describes the effect produced in his own person by taking sixteen ounces of gruel containing ten grains of oxalic acid, six hours after the previous meal. He experienced immediately a " disagreeable, acid, and astringent taste ;" subsequently "roughness of the tongue," "corrosion," and hyperesthesia of the teeth. 1 Jl1"" ?kinner suggests, from analogy, that sugar and spice might pro- bably be successfully employed to render food containing oxalic acid palatable. He gives no experiments. Skinner.—Suspected Poisoning by Oxalic Acid, or its Salts. Brit Med Journ., Feb. 5th and May 12th.ItEl'OItT OX LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. TaUDIOHUM.—Remarks on Dr. Skinner's Case. Brit. Med. Journ Feb 18th. ' Skinner.—Rejpty to Dr. Thudichum'* Remarks. Ib., March iotli. Facie.—-Poisoning by an Ounce of Oxalic Acid. Lancet, Nov. 24th, p. cog. It. G—, set 31, a man of drunken habits, swallowed three-penny- worth of oxalic acid ; he instantly felt " a burning sensation in the mouth throat, and oesophagus, and intense pain in the stomach ;" he was shortly after brought to hospital in a state of collapse. After treatment by emetics, the stomach-pump, and subsequently chalk mixture at short in- tervals, reaction was established, and all immedintc danger seemed averted; but diarrhoea continued. On the fifth day all unfavorable symptoms had disappeared, he became restless, and died suddenly after getting out of bed. At the autopsy the only morbid appearances were congestion of the mucous membrane of the stomach and "extreme fatty degeneration" of the walls of the heart. Ikin.— Poisoning by Oxalic Acid. Lancet, Dec. 15th, p. 592. A private in the Lancers, set. 26, swallowed an ounce of oxalic acid; vomiting and purging came on almost immediately, and in twenty-five minutes he was dead. No food had been taken for several hours. 4. Phosjihorus. Hoffmann.— On Poisoning by Phosphorus. Med. Centr. Ztg., 68, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 296. The author proposes the following modification of Mitscherlich's appa- ratus. A small flask is to be connected with a small receiver by means of a bent tube, the longer limb of which passes into the latter. The receiver is plunged into a glass cylinder containing cold water. The object of this arrangement is to increase the space occupied by the phosphorescence. In the course of the operation the phosphorescence appears first in and on the surface of the liquor operated on ; as the temperature rises it fills the whole flask, then passes into the conducting tube, and finally becomes visible either as a column or ring in the tube, or as a luminous cloud in the receiver, its appearance varying according to the rapidity with which the distillation is carried on. The author has made numerous researches, showing that none of the tissues or albuminous compounds yield any indications of phosphorus when treated by Mitscherlich's method. SciiEREH.—On the Detection and Determination of Phosphorus and Phosphorous Acid in Poisoning. Ann. d. Chem. U. Pharm., vol. cxii, p. 214, Nov., 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 295. Scheicr had the opportunity in his official position of observing numerous cases of poisoning by phosphorus in domestic animals, and some in man, two of which were fatal. lie employs for detection the process of Mitscherlich, with this important modification, that he intro- duces into the flask containing the suspected liquids before heating it sulphuric acid, and a little bit of carbonate of lime, and further causes the distillation-tube to open under distilled water contained in a second flask. The result is, of course, that the whole apparatus is full of carbonic439 POISONS AND POISONING. acid, there is no luminous vapour in the distillation-tuhe, as in the ordi- nary process, and the whole of the phosphorus, of which very little is converted into phosphorous acid, is contained in the distilled water. It exists in the form either of minute globules of phosphorus or, if in very small quantities, suspended in the water, which appears luminous if agi- tated in a dark room. As a preliminary tentative method, the following is recommended. It is well known that phosphorus volatilizes at ordi- nary temperatures and even under liquids, which become thereby impreg- nated with phosphorus vapour. In contact with atmospheric air, it becomes diffused in it to a degree varying according to the temperature and mode of contact. If paper moistened with solution of nitrate of silver is exposed to a liquid in this state, the silver is reduced and the paper blackened, and in this way the most minute trace of diffused phos- phorus can be detected. The end of a single lucifer, which contains about Tiff of a grain of phosphorus, diffused in half an ounce of water or milk and introduced into a flask, still yielded, after three or four days, an abundant and distinct reaction. In the case of the contents of the stomach, &c, the plan recommended is to dilute the liquids with water, to add thereto a little sulphuric acid in a flask, in which a strip of paper is to be suspended, moistened with solution of sugar of lead. If this affords no indication of the presence of hydrosulphuric acid, the paper moistened with nitrate of silver may be substituted. Au intense black- ening of the paper, especially on warming the flask, clearly indicates the presence of phosphorus; if necessary, several such strips of paper may be prepared, and treated with aqua regia; the solution thus obtained will yield to the ordinary tests proof of the presence of phosphoric acid. In order to determine the phosphorus quantitatively, Scherer adds to Mitscherlich's apparatus a couple of glass flasks, connected with each other by a glass tube. Into the first, containing distilled water, the distillation- tube passes; the second contains a neutral or slightly ammoniacal solu- tion of nitrate of silver, and is intended to fix whatever traces of phos- phorus may not be absorbed by the water. The globules of phosphorus, if any, contained in the water are united by gently warming it, and the liquids in the two flasks are united, gently heated, and the whole solu- tion treated with aqua regia and filtered. In the filtrate phosphoric acid is to be sought for. In cases in which the matters supposed to contain phosphorus have been so much exposed to the air as to convert it into phosphorous acid, Scherer recommends that Mitscherlich's apparatus should be charged with sulphuric acid and pure zinc, and heated so long as the hydrogen developed carries with it phosphuretted hydrogen. The product may be passed through a solution of nitrate of silver, in order to fix the phosphorus, which will be determined as phosphoric acid. Filhol.—On the Processes employed by Chemists for the detection of Phosphorus, Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxvii, p. 167. This paper is devoted to a criticism of the chemical proof of poisoning by phosphorus, in cases in which it has altogether undergone transformation into phosphorous acid. This kind of poisoning is now more frequent in France than poisoning by arsenic. Lewinsky.—Poisoning by Phosphorus. Wien. Ztsch., N. F. i. p. n2, Canst, vol. v, p. 85.REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. III) Death took place on the sixth day. There were at first vomiting and purging, which were succeeded at the last hy icterus, deep somnolence, with a rapid, weak pulse. At the autopsy no trace of gastritis was dis- covered, the brain and its membranes contained little blood, and the liver was large and lardaceous. Otberorgans healthy. Bloodwholly uncoagulated. BncKER.—Attempted Poisoning by Phosphorus Matches. Henke, vol. xxxix, p. 268. Canst., vol. v, p. 85. The heads of two phosphorus matches were surreptitiously administered by a maid-servant to a child set. 2, in eau sucrec. This liquid was found, on analysis, to contain no phosphorus in substance, although it was said to have at first smelt of it. At the trial, the court refused to entertain the possibility that the phosphorus had been converted into phosphoric acid, and acquitted the prisoner. The author, however, undertook on his own account further investigations as to the possibility of oxidation under the circumstances given. He found that a solution of sugar containing phos- phorus lost its smell in ten days, after which period no indications could be obtained by Mitscherlich's method, while the presence of phosphoric acid was indicated by nitrate of silver and molybdate of ammonia, and in much larger quantity when nitric acid had been previously added. Schaller.—Poisoning by Phosphorus. Gaz. de Strasbourg, No. 11, A man, set. 45, insane, took about 200 grains of phosphorus paste, fol- lowed by five or six grains of corrosive sublimate. He was seen immediately after by Schaller, who found his condition as follows:—Face red, eyes injected, gait unsteady, limbs trembling, rigors, voice altered, sensation of pharyngeal constriction, great thirst, breath impregnated with phos- phorus vapour, which was also disengaged from the dirty-gray coloured stools and from the urine. An emetic was at once administered, followed by Seidlitz water and mucilage. He was convalescent in five days. Kopf.—Case of Poisoning by Phosphorus. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., No. 47, 1849. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 296. In this case, in which a young woman, set. 24, swallowed the heads of six packets of lucifers, with suicidal intentions, death took place on the fourth day. The symptoms and post-mortem appearances are described in detail; they agree with those observed in former cases, witli the exception that there was no diarrhoea, the bowels being, on the contrary, confined, and after death no gangrenous destruction was found of the mucous mem- brane of the stomach, which exhibited only the redness of inflammation. ScnucHARDT.—Poisoning by Phosphorus. H. and Pf. Ztsch., N. F. vol. vii, part 3. Harting. —Poisoning by Phosphorus. Pr. Ver. Zg., N. F. vol. i, 52. Hauff.—On Fatal Poisoning by Phosphorus Paste. Wiirtem. Corr. Blatt., No. 34. Zkidler.— Case of Acute Poisoning by Phosphorus. Ann. d. Berliner Cliarite, vol. ix, p. 1. MULDER.— On the Discovery of Phosphorus in Poisoning. Archiv f. d. holl. lieitr., vol. ii, p. 358.POISONS AXD POTSO>'T>TG. J H 5. Arsenic. Taylor.—Facts and Fallacies connected ivith the Research for Arsenic and Antimony, with suggestions for a method of separating these poisons from organic matter. Guy's Hospital Reports, vol. vi, p. 201. The papei- opens with an examination of Marsh's process as a method of separating arsenic from the solids and fluids of the body, in reference to which the author concludes that there is no good or simple method of bring- ing the arsenic to a sufficiently concentrated state, and at the same time avoiding the inconvenient production of froth ; and that w hen the quantity of arsenic in an organic liquid is so small as to render the adoption of the process necessary, it is not possible to follow the plan of the inventor, of generating the hydrogen in the whole quantity of the organic liquid. He then gives an account of the discovery and successive improvements of Reinsch's process, and describes a method suggested by Mr. Watson, of Bolton, of distinguishing the deposits of antimony on copper from those of arsenic. The copper is to be boiled, with constant agitation, in a weak solution of potash, in a tube. Metallic antimony is rapidly oxidized and converted into a soluble antimonite of potash, while the arsenical crust is unaltered. The alkaline liquid is then to be acidulated with hydrochloric acid, and precipitated by a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen. The second part of the paper is devoted to the demonstration that arsenic is found in appreciable quantity in all the commercial forms of copper, and particularly in electrotype-copper, copper-wire, gauze and foil, and that this fact was, at the period of the investigation consequent on the trial of Smethurst, "anew fact in science." In support of this propo- sition the author quotes numerous authorities to show " that no reference is made even to the possible presence of arsenic as a contaminating ingredient in copper" by any previous author. He next describes several methods of detecting arsenic in copper, of which the following was found to be free from all objections. The copper in question is to be "exposed to a stratum of pure and concentrated hydrochloric acid contained in a saucer, the metal being partly immersed and partly exposed." A brown liquid (solution of subchloride of copper in hydrochloric acid) is obtained, which is then to be distilled to dryness in a small retort in a sand-bath, and the vapour condensed in a flask containing distilled water. "A per- fectly clear solution of chloride of arsenic or a mixture of hydrochloric and arsenious acids, is thus obtained, in which arsenic can be detected by Reinsch's or Marsh's tests." The remainder of the paper is devoted to the statement and illustration of the method which the author now " feels justified in recommending for the separation and detection of arsenic in liquids and solids, whether organic or inorganic." It is based—1st, on the ready conversion of arsenic into chloride ; 2d, the transformation of this compound into hydride by Marsh's process ; 3d, the production of metallic arsenic, of arsenious and arsenic acids, from the hydride ; and 4th, testing the products. The first step is accomplished by drying the substauce in question thoroughly by the watcr-bath or a current of air, covering it (in a globular flask, with a short neck, fitted with a conducting tube*) with pure concentrated hydrochloric acid, and then gradually heating the mixture in a sand-bathItEl'OltT OX LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. The conducting tube should be two or three feet in length, and covered for the most part with blotting-pnper, kept constantly wet, and should be adapted to a receiving flask by a cork, which should contain just sufficient water to condense and fix the acid vapours. The further steps consist in subjecting the distilled liquid to Marsh's process, in the application of which Dr. Taylor recommends several modifications. He passes the ar- seniuretted hydrogen at successive periods into test-tubes, of which one contains strong solution of nitrate of silver, the other strong nitric acid with nitrous acid (np. gr., 1-522). In the first arsenious acid and metallic silver are produced, and nitric acid set free, the solution being blackened by the slightest trace of arseniuretted hydrogen. In the second the whole of the arsenic is arrested and converted into arsenic acid, which may be obtained by evaporating the nitric acid on the sand-bath, and tested by the subsequent addition of nitrate of silver. The arsenious acid contained in the first test-tube may be separated by filtration from the black precipitate of metallic silver, and the filtrate precipitated by hydro- chloric acid, and the product again filtered. The liquid is then free from any silver salt, and may be further tested. As regards the application of this process to antimony, Dr. Taylor states that he has not been able "to procure by distillation with hydro- chloric acid any trace of the metal in the distillate, though antimony was readily found by Marsh's process in the residue in the retort. If this fact should be corroborated, the distillation process will furnish a ready method of separating absorbed arsenic from absorbed antimony." But for the separation of antimony, when that metal alone is in question, Reinsch's plan is still considered to be the best. For the discrimination of the antimonial deposit thus obtained, the method already described as having been first suggested by Mr. Watson is adopted by Dr. Taylor, as being definitively the best; and he states, in illustration, that in the Liverpool poison cases it afforded good evidence of antimony in a liver containing not more than i-i6oth of a grain in two ounces of the substance. ScHNEiDEK.—Marsh's Apparatus as a means of proof in Poisoning by Arsenic. Oest. Zeitsch. f. p. Heillc, vol. v, p. 49. Canst., vol. v, p. 89. Schneider arrives at the following results:—The ordinary method of testing zinc, with a view to its use as a means of discovering arsenic, affords no proof of its absolute freedom from arsenic, and therefore, in cases in which only the most minute traces are indicated, it cannot be concluded that these traces are derived from the substances submitted to examination, as it is conceivable that they may arise from zinc which has been pronounced pure. As, however, recognisable arsenic stains cannot be obtained by Marsh's apparatus from less than one milligramme of arsenious acid, a larger quantity than could be attributed to the impurity of the zinc, it may be assumed that in all cases in which such stains are produced there can be no doubt of their source. It further follows that Marsh's process is not adapted for investigations in which quantities of arsenious acid less than a milligramme are to be sought. In these casts the author recommends precipitation by sulphuretted hydrogen as the best method. He finds by experiment that a precipitation of sulphuret of arsenic can be obtained from a solution of o-oio gramme in 600,000POISONS AND POISONING. 143 times ns much water, so that there appears to be no limit to the applica- bility of the test. Bloxam.—On the Detection of Metallic Poiso)is by means of Electro- lysis. Pharm., p. 376. The apparatus of Professor Bloxam consists of a tubulated bell-jar, the wide end of which is closed with vegetable parchment. Its mouth is fitted with a cork, through which is passed a platina wire, terminating in a plate of the same metal. Through the cork a glass conducting tube also passes, the opeu end of which scarcely projects below the cork. The bell-jar is to be half filled with dilute sulphuric acid, and plunged into a test-glass filled with the same liquid and to the same level. Another Avire, ending in a plate, is to be plunged in the outer liquid, and the two connected with a Grove's battery of five cells. In operating on organic mixtures the organic matter is to be destroyed in the usual way by chlorate of potash and hydrochloric acid, and the liquor evaporated to a syrup. Sulphurous acid is then to be added, and the excess expelled by heat. The mixture is introduced into the bottle, one drachm of alcohol is added, and the apparatus put in operation. The process is adapted for the separation of all the metals excepting lead. Antimony is almost entirely deposited on the platina plate, but arsenic is disengaged as arseniuretted hydrogen along the tube, in which a mirror can be readily obtained. Mercury, copper, or bismuth are, of course, also deposited on the plate. Guy.—New method of obtaining Crusts of Arsenic, Arsenious Acid, and other Sublimates. Chemical News, March ,31st. For obtaining crusts of arsenic or crystals of arsenious acid in medico- legal inquiries, the author proposes to substitute for the ordinary reduc- tion-tube a short and wider tube of common white glass (three quarters of an inch long), provided with a cover of common window-glass. The sub- stance to be sublimed is dropped into the tube. The sublimate is depo- sited mainly on the disk, and, if inconsiderable, the high powers of the microscope may be used for its recognition. Dr. Guy found that one thousandth of a grain of arsenious acid yielded a sublimate which could be identified with ease and certainty. Hellbb and Kletzinsky.—Finding and Opinio7is on the Chemico-legal Analysis of the remains of some Tea, and of the parts of the body of H- Ji—, a Female supposed to have died by Poison. Oest. Z., vol. v, 25, 26. Canst., vol. vii, p. 9. In this case orpiment (Hiittenrauch, a substance containing arsenious acid and sulphide of arsenic in variable proportions) was detected in the stomach. In relation to it, the authors describe their method for the detec- tion of arsenic, the peculiarity of which consists in the corpus delicti being first dissolved in hyrochloric acid. They maintain that the volatilization of chloride of arsenic only becomes appreciable when the solution in hydrochloric acid attains a temperature of 3300 Fahr., or is so concen- trated as to contain at least 20 per cent, of hydrochloric acid gas; that in difficult cases, in which minute quantities of antimony and arsenic are to be sought for, the direct testing of the hydrochloric-acid solution in Marsh's apparatus affords the most satisfactory means of proof; and thatBBPOET ON LEO A I, MEDICINE AND PUULIC HYOIKNE. 111. this method is applicable to cases in which other processes have given such indecisive results, ns to render it impossible to pronounce an opinion either for or against the presence of the poison. Ulondlot.—Influence of Fatty Bodies on the Solubility of Arsenious Acid. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxvii, p. 170. The author has shown that the solubility of arsenious acid, both in neutral and feebly acid or alkaline liquids, is diminished enormously in the presence even of n trace of fatty matters. He tbinks tbat the harmless presence of masses of arsenious acid in tbe stomach, occasionally observed, may be thus accounted for, and proposes to employ milk and otber liquids containing fats as antidotes. Hoffmann.— On the Separation of Arsenic from Antimony. Quart. Journal of Chem. Sci., vol. xiii, p. 79. Arseniurctted hydrogen, as well as antimoniuretted hydrogen, are absorbed readily by a solution of nitrate of silver; but, in the one case, arsenious acid along with metallic silver, in the other insoluble antimonide of silver (Ag3 Sb), is produced. The antimonide is soluble in tartaric acid, by which means it may be readily separated from the silver. Glover.—On a Modification of the Chlorate-of-Potash Method for the Oxidation of Organic Matter or the Detection of Mineral Poisons. Cbem. News. December 24th, 1859. The author introduces three or four ounces of chlorate of potash into a large flask, fitted with a thistle funnel and conducting tube. Hydro- chloric acid (sp. gr. 0.05, that is, one part HC1 to two parts water) is to be added, heat applied, and the disengaged gases passed through the liquid containing the organic matter. In this way, the inconvenience which arises in the ordinary process from the crystallization of chloride of potassium in the liquid is obviated. Redwood.—On the alleged Presence of Arsenic and Antimony in Grey Powder. Pharmac, p, 450. It having been stated by a witness, at the trial of Smethurst, that gray powder contains occasionally these metals, Redwood submitted numerous specimens to analysis ; of all of which tbe results were negative. The processes employed were found to be capable of readily detecting To ffcJo Part °f «rseni°us ac'd when added to the powder. Schmidt and Bretschnetder.— On the Poisonous Action of Metallic Arsenic. Moleschott, vol. vi, p. 146. Canst., vol. v, p. 86. The authors maintain that Schroff, in attributing a poisonous action to metallic arsenic, had been led into error by the rapid oxidation of the metal; and maintain that, when given to animals in a state of purity, it passes unaltered through the alimentary canal. Schroff.— Further Contribution to the Solution of the Question, "Is Metallic Arsenic Poisonous ?" Wien. Ztchr. N. P„ vol. ii, p. 44. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 176. In pursuance of his former experiments, the author endeavours to determine the effect on the organism of the most insoluble form of metallic arsenic—that in which it possesses a white colour and metallic lustre. He445 POISONS AND POISONING. concludes from experiments on animals, that although this form of metallic arsenic exercises less influence on the organism, and retains longer its metallic nature in the alimentary canal than any other, it produces death, preceded by the characteristic phenomena of arsenical poisoning. He also rebuts the assertions of Schmidt and Brettschneider, giving satisfactory proof of the purity of the arsenic employed. Schmidt and Chomse. — On the Action of Oxide of Kakodyl and Ka/codylic Acid. Moleschott, vol. vi, p. 2. Canst., vol. v, p. 87. Nine experiments were made on various animals. The oxide was administered internally, or in the gaseous form, and the acid was given externally, or injected into the jugular vein. The results were as follows :— After the administration of either compound, kakodyl can be recognised in the urine and in the serum of the blood, either by the phosphorous acid test, or by that with hydrochloric acid and zinc. Neither compound owes its activity to the arsenic it contains, nor is there any relation between their action and that of the metal or its salts. The poisonous action of oxide of kakodyl (alcaisin) is entirely due to the violent oxida- tion which it undergoes in the stomach, at the expense of the water and organic matters contained in it. On the other hand, kakodylic acid, when swallowed is deoxidized. In the one case, kakodylic acid and the inter- mediate compound, KdO, KdO"3, are produced; in the other, the kakodylic acid already existing is partially converted into the same body. Both compounds enter the circulation: kakodylic acid has no action, and is excreted as such by the kidneys, in combination with an alkali; KdO, Kd03 is highly poisonous, its existence in the blood being indicated by increased action of the heart, accelerated breathing, extreme muscular weakuess, paralysis of the iris, and stupor. The paper contains other results of interest. Schmidt and StUkzwage.— On the Influence of Arsenious Acid on the Exchange of Material. Moleschotts Unters., vol. vi, p. 283. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 175. The authors' experiments were made on fowls and cats ; and the exchange of material was measured by the carbonic acid exhaled, and the urea excreted. The general result was, that arsenious acid produces a very marked diminution (amounting to from 20 to 40 per cent.) of meta- morphosis of tissue. This takes place after very small doses, and more quickly when the acid is introduced directly into the veins than when swallowed. This fact is considered to explain the fattening of horses on small doses of white arsenic. F. H. S.—On the Influence of Arsenious Acid upon the Waste of the Animal Tissues. Chem. News, Nov. 3d. A summary of facts and opinions confirmatory of the conclusions of Schmidt and Stiirzwage. Church.—Note on the Arsenical Water of Whitbeck, Cumberland. Chem. News, Aug. 25th. In the village of Whitbeck, a natural water containing nearly a grain of metallic arsenic in a gallon is used habitually by the inhabitants116 HJ3P0ET ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND 1'UBLIC HYGIENE. with beneficial results, their general healthiness and longevity being re- markable. Poisoning by Arsenic. Pharmac., p. 618. A servant girl, near Leicester, was charged with having, on the 27th of April, administered to her master arsenic, with which she had been intrusted for the purpose of killing rats. Death took place a week after the presumed administration of the poison, and was preceded by the usual symptoms. Arsenious acid was detected in the liver, stomach, intes- tines, and vomited matters. Poisoning by Bath Buns. Pharmac, p. 389. Six boys suffered from the symptoms of arsenical poisoning, after par- taking of buns at a confectioner's. It was found that the buus were coloured yellow with orpiment, which had been supplied to the confec- tioner in mistake for chrome yellow. The latter substance had beeu employed by him habitually as a substitute for eggs. Kebeb and Hoogeweg.—Two Cases 0/Poisoning by Arsenic. Casper, vol. xv, part 2. Maschka.—Medico-legal Contributions. Casper, vol.xv, part 1. Poison- ing by Arsenic in a Child affected by Pneumonia. Fasoli.—On the Use of Antidotes in general, and especially of Oxide of Iron, in cases of Poisoning by Arsenic Acids. Compt. rend., vol. li, P- *72- LoitiNSEit.—Chronic Poisoning by Arsenic and Copper, consequent on pro- longed habitation in rooms painted ivith Scheele's Green. Wiener Med. Wochensch, 1859, Nos. 43, 44. After a resume of the facts observed by former writers, the author re- lates several cases in which persons inhabiting rooms painted green, exhibited remarkable symptoms, which were proved by the analysis of the paint, and of the urine of the patients, as well as by the fact that recovery succeeded removal, to be dependent on mineral poisoning. The following is among the most interesting:—A woman, aged fifty-four, was affected at various periods with lancinating, erratic pains referred to the shoulder- joint and nucha, and accompanied with fever. These phenomena in- creased from year to year until the winter of 1857-58, when the patient became languid, and lost flesh and appetite. She left town, and got well. Towards the end of summer, she returned to her house at Vienna, and rode on horseback daily. In November, she was seized with violent fever, lancinating pains in the head and shoulders and subsequently profuse perspirations, followed by disappearance of the fever. The lancinating pains diminished, but she experienced extremely painful sensations of irritation and distraction in the head. These returned regularly every other night, and lasted till morning, the attack always terminating in abundant sweating. The lancinating pains continued in the shoulders, arms, and epigastrium, after the subsidence of the attack. There was complete anorexia, with a clean tongue. Sulphate of quinine, in 8-grain doses, produced no effect.POISONS AND POISONING. 447 On analysing the green paint, it was found to consist of arseniate and acetate of copper. The patient was treated with iodide of potassium, about 2+ grains three times a day, during which treatment arsenic was contained in the urine in such quantity that its presence could be easily made evident by Marsh's test. A female, aged seventeen, inhabiting a small room coloured with Scheele's green, was attacked with languor, anorexia, headache, loss of flesh, attributed to amenorrhcea, and had been unsuccessfully treated by steel and a tonic regimen. Languor increased ; she became weaker, paler, and thinner, and finally lost her sleep, and became affected with nausea and vomiting. She was removed from her room, and put on iodide of potas- sium ; after which she recovered rapidly. A female, aged forty-five, contracted typhoid fever ; in five weeks she was convalescent, but did not recover strength. She had extreme anorexia, sleeplessness, excessive muscular weakness, with a clean tongue and natural pulse. This continued more than a month, and became aggravated by tremors of the hands, and racking pains in the feet. She rapidly got better on removing from her room. Arsenic was discovered in the urine. A female, aged twenty-four, was similarly attacked with typhoid fever ; after which, she fell into a state of debility, which lasted for two years and a half. The catamenia became irregular ; she lost appetite, became sleepless, and complained constantly of drumming in the ears. Neither quina nor iron did good; but she recovered immediately on leaving Vienna. On subsequently returning, the old symptoms re-appeared, accompanied with gastralgia, itching of the skin, with occasional nausea and vomiting. Arsenic -was discovered in her urine. The green colour was removed from the walls of her room ; she rapidly recovered. The author concludes, from his experience, that the arseniate of copper enters the organism by the lungs in the form of dust. " The better the colour is prepared, and the less the walls are swept, the less powder is detached. If, on the contrary, the colour contains little glue, or is old and deteriorated, a larger quantity of dust is detached." The author does not pretend to determine what are the characteristic symptoms of this kind of poisoning. He calls attention, however, to the dyspepsia, epigastric pain, the peculiar perversions of cutaneous sensibility,' and the headache, as being most distinctive. Brett.—On Arsenical Fly-papers. Pharmac, p. 404, Brett finds that two kinds of paper are commonly sold in this country —the papier moure, containing arsenate of potash, and another variety, in which the metal exists entirely as arsenious acid not combined with a base. The average per-centage of arsenic, estimated as arsenious acid, in the papers examined, including both varieties, amounts to 7.69, or 5.3 grains of arsenious acid in each paper. Metcalfe.—Medical Report of a Case of Poisoning by Arsenical Paper- hangings. Lancet, Nov. 17th, p. 494, and Dec. 1st, p. 535. On the 9th November, an inquest was held at Highbury, on the body of a child, aged three and a half years, whose death was preceded by symp- toms attributed to arsenical poison, viz., frequently recurring paroxysmsREPORT ON LKOAL MEDICINE AX J) PUBLIC HYGIENE. IIS of tetanic convulsion, diarrhoea, and collapse. The contents of the stomach were found to contain "distinct evidences of arsenic," and "minute traces of copper." Another child was affected at the same time in a similar manner. Both had been playing in a room hung with green flock-paper, which was found to contain nearly one third of its weight of Scheele's green. Chevalier.—Researches on the Dangers arising from Schweinfurt Green. 'm Ann. d'Hygiene, vol. xii, p. 49. The author describes the infinitely various purposes for which Schwein- furt green is employed, and the consequent dangers. Persons employed in the manufacture of arsenical paper-hangings, and of artificial flowers, appear to be more liable than any other class of the community to this kind of poisoning ; but examples are given of the most various kinds. Since Prof. Gmelin, of Heidelberg, first drew attention to the dangers of living in rooms papered with arsenical hangings (which he attributed to the disengagement of gas containing arsenic), a very large number of observations have been collected in France, Sweden, and Germany, of which M. Chevalier gives a good summary, his conclusion being, that the poison is introduced entirely mechanically by the inhalation of arsenical dust. The paper contains instances of poisoning from the following sources :—From articles of dress—green cotton prints, which contain arse- niate of copper or arseniateof chrome ; bracelets, head-dresses, linings of caps, &c, articles of food, cakes, and sweetmeats covered with arsenical green, or packed in arsenical paper; hams and potted meats, packed in green paper; French plums, figs, and other fruits, similarly packed ; miscellaneous articles, such as playthings, wafers, postage stamps, &c. &c. Biggs.—On a singular Case of Poisoning by Arsenical Paper. Lancet, Jan. 7. The case was characterised at first by the existence of numerous superficial and very painful ulcers along the inner surface of each lip; subsequently, ptyalism. These symptoms, after resisting all other treat- ment for some time, disappeared on discontinuing the use of a paper lamp- shade, which was found to owe its bright colour to Scheele's green. Oppeniieimer.— Chronic Arsenic Poisoning by Green Wall-papers. Verh. d. Nat.-med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, vol. i, p. 220. Ziurek. — On Green Colours in Articles of Dress. Froriep's Not., vol. iii, No. 10. . Green Arsenic Colours, and their Employment in making Arti- ficial Flowers. Pr. Ver. Ztg. N. F., vol. ii, p. 48. Sonnenkalb. — On Schweinfurt Green in Clothing Materials. Dent. Ztsch., vol. xv, p. 94. . . Muller.—On the Unwholesome Influence of Colouring Matter containing Arsenic. Wien. Wchnschr., Nos. 18—21. Buciiner.—Report on Muller and Fabian's Treatise on the Hurtful Effect of Wall-papers containing Arsenic. Bayer. Arztl. Intell. Blatt., No. 46, 1859. , Fabian.—Poisoning by Paper coloured with Schweinfurt Green. Ann. dcr Chem. u. Pharm., vol. cxv, p. 102.POISONS AND POISONING. 449 See, also, on the same subject, Erdmann, Journ. f. prakt. Chem., vol. lxxix, p. 121 (Abstr. in Journ. de Phnrra., January i860) ; and Ziurek, Polytechn. Journ., vol. civ, p. 465 (Abstr. in the same). 6. Antimony. Case of Alleged Poisoning by Antimony. Med. Gaz., July 7th and Sept. 1st. Pliarm. Journ., Sept., i860. Mrs. J., set. 42, a lodging-house keeper at Liverpool, was attacked on several occasions, viz., in February, on the 29th of March, and on the 8th and 29th of May, with vomiting and purging, for which she was throughout at- tended by Dr. Cameron. No suspicion of irritant poisoning was excited uutil May 29th ; Dr. Cameron having on the first occasion discovered that she was suffering from a tumour in the epigastrium, which he believed to be malignant. In consequence of the recurrence of the first symptoms, the urine, and subsequently the vomited matters and dejections, were examined. Antimony having been discovered, the patient was removed to a hospital, after which she gradually improved until J une 22d, on which day symptoms of perforation presented themselves, and she died on the 24th. At the post- mortem examination a large cancerous tumour of the caecum was found, which presented at its upper part several small openings, by which the con- tents of the bowel had passed into the peritoneal cavity: two small ulcers of the stomach were also discovered; but no appearances exclusively referable to antimony, evidence of the presence of which metal wTas however obtained, by chemical analysis, in all the organs. Dr. Cameron, physician to the Southern Hospital, expressed his opinion that, although all the symptoms observed during the period of her stay in the hospital might be attributed to natural disease, death was accelerated by the administration of antimony. The jury returned a verdict of not guilty. Two other members of the family had previously died under circumstances which gave ground for suspicion that they had been poisoned by antimony. No inquiry was instituted. (For chemical evidence, see • Chemical News,' Aug. 25th). Antimonial Poisoning at Yeovil. Lancet, Aug. 4th, p. 119. In July an inquest was held at Yeovil on the body of Mrs. P., set. 28, who died after suffering for many months from intractable gastro-enteritis. The cause having been suspected during life, the urine and alvine dis- charges were examined, and found to contain antimony, but not in time to save the patient's life. After death no antimony could be discovered in the organs. In the absence of collateral evidence of crime, the inquiry led to no result. 7. Mercurial Poisons. Shout.—// case of suspected Poisoning by White Precipitate. Med. Times, May 5th. A. J M., aged three months, the illegitimate child of II. M., an inmate of Fetworth Workhouse, had been suffering from trifling disorder of digestion, and subsequently diarrhoea, which was relieved by the hydrargy- rum c. creta, with rhubarb. 1 JulJue>y Early in the morning of December 21st, the patient was attacked with 20450 REPORT OX LEUAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. vomiting and purging, attended with violent cries of pain ; this resulted in CcJinpse and death in about twenty-four hours. Suspicion being directed to the case in consequence of a rumour that poison had beet) purchased by the mother, an inquest was held, and the body examined. The external appearances were natural, with the exception that tberewas excoriation of the integument surrounding the anus. The organs and dejections were forwarded to Dr. Taylor for analysis, of wbose evidence the following is a summary:—i. A mercurial compound, believed to be white precipitate, mixed with farinaceous and other matter, was found in tbe contents of tbc stomach. 2. A mercurial compound was found in the dejections, in the oesophagus, small intestines, liver, and kidneys. 3. There was redness of the oesophagus, a red patch in the stomach, and great redness of the upper part of the small intestines. 4. The other organs were healthy. Taylor.—On Poisoning by White Precipitate. Guy's Hospital Reports, p. 483. The author remarks on the medical evidence in the case above cited, that there was no specific symptom, such as salivation, to point to the effect of a mercurial irritant compound ; that only one fatal case in a human being is recorded of death from this poison ; and that, in that case, the child had salivation, and died of the effects; that, with the exception of some experiments on animals, there is no medical experience of the effects of this poison on the body; that the quantity of the precipitate found in the body of the child was not what would be called a fatal dose ; that evidence of the presence of absorbed poison deposited in the liver and other organs utterly fails in this case, because a compound of mer- cury (gray powder) had been given during the treatment; that, putting aside the white precipitate found in the body, there was nothing in the appearances irreconcileable with the effects of disea.-e. From these con- siderations Dr. Taylor concluded that there was no absolute or complete evidence, although a strong probability, that white precipitate was the direct cause of the inflammation of the bowels. The trial took place at the Lewes Lent assizes, i860. The charge of murder was abandoned, and the prisoner indicted and convicted upon the charge of administering poison with intent to murder. Pavy.—Physiological Action of While Precipitate on Animals. Guy's Hospital Reports, p. 505. Pavy finds that white precipitate acts on animals as a powerfully and purely irritant poison. A dose of four or five grains proves fatal to a rabbit in a few hours. In smaller doses it produced death after several days, from the effects of inflammation of the alimentary tract, accompanied with a "most peculiar condition of the kidneys," the urmiferous tubules of the cortical substance being more or less choked with a granular deposit, stated by the author to be "composed principally of phosphate of lime." Stadion.—On the Toxical and Pharmacodynamical Action of Corrosive Sublimate. Med. Ztg. Russlands, pp. 1—6, 1859. Stadion's observations were directed to the question whether or not, as maintained by Voit, corrosive sublimate owes its activity to its chemical reaction on albumen. He found that the action of sublimate, combinedPOISONS AND POISONING. 451 With albumen previously to ndministrntion, does not difler from that of pure sublimate, and concludes tl.at albumen is only an imaginary antidote ; he denies that the poison has any other direct action than that of inducing local inflammation in the parts to which it is applied. Coghlan.—Case of Poisoning by Corrosive Sublimate. Med. Gaz., Feb. i8tb. ... A healthy lad, ret. 19, took about twelve grains of corrosive sublimate in a wineuiass of water, at 8 a.m. Three minutes after he vomited, and fifteen minutes afterwards he was purged. Tliese symptoms continued till 7 p.m., when he was first seen. The skin was then cold, the pulse 136, feeble, and he was vomiting mucus tinged with blood. There was intense injection of the mouth and fauces, but not much abdominal pain. Re- action was successfully induced by the application of warmth to the feet and sinapisms to the'belly; after which albuminous drinks were given, with 5 minims of tinct. opii every half hour. He was convalescent in a few days. Auer.—Case of Poisoning by Corrosive Sublimate. Bayer, arztl. Intell. Blatt., 43. 8. Other Metallic Poisons. Tourdes.—On the Poisonous Action of Proto-sulphate of Iron. Gaz. de Strasb., No. 4, 1859. Canst, vol. v, p. 92. These researches were undertaken on account of the frequency of poison- ing by green vitriol. In rabbits, into the stomach of which this substance had been injected, accelerated respiration was the only phenomenon observed. This soon gave way to the gradual and tranquil approach of asphyxia and death. Iron was found in quantity in the blood, bile, and urine. The albumen of the blood was found to be modified as regards its coagulability, in so far that the precipitate obtained by nitric acid and heat was rendered soluble in excess of water and nitric acid, and the fibrine had lost its coagulability. " Saccharate of lime" and carbonate of soda are recommended as the best antidotes. Oppolzer.—Chronic Poisoning by Copper. Deut. Klinik, No. 19, 1859. Oppolzer relates several cases of chronic poisoning by copper occurring in workmen engaged in copper manufactories, in which the symptoms of the so-called copper colic manifested themselves with great intensity, and were in some instances followed by a paralysis of the upper limbs not distinguishable from that which is produced by lead. The cases were distinguishable from those of lead-poisoning by the greenish-yellow tinge of the countenance, the occurrence of diarrhoea alternating with consti- pation, and the presence of copper in the urine. Aldis.—Case of Poisoning by Liu. Plumbi Biac. Bil. Med. Gaz., Jan. 14. A prostitute, aged twenty-one, swallowed in successive small doses § of a pint of a lotion containing liq. plumbi diac. dil. She experienced imme- diately a sensation of heat in the throat, thirst, nausea, and epigastric pain. Wheu first seen at 10 p.m., she was writhing with pain referredItEl'OltT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND l'UBLIC HYGIENE. to epigastrium find umbilicus. The abdomino] wall was retracted, the pulse was feeble, and there were tremor and jactitation of the limbs. Two scruple do^es of sulphate of zinc were administered, which were followed by repeated doses of a solution of sulphate of magnesia. The symptoms gradually disappeared, and she recovered. Poisoning by Sugar of Lead. Friedreich, pp. 10,27. Canst., vol. vii, p. 15. In this case poisoning by lead was indicated in an adult male, and in a child of seven year.0, as well by the appearances during life as by the analysis of the intestines after death. Wjcke.— On Snuff containing Lead. Henle, N. F., vol. i, p. 195. Wicke found that snuff packed in lead-foil always contains lead. It is usual to wrap it first in lead-foil and then in two coverings of paper. The foil is usually tinned on one side, but, in spite of this, tlie author found that both the snuff and the paper were impregnated with lead, and the foil encrusted with carbonate, especially it the package had been allowed to become damp. The outer crust of snuff contained 2.743 per cent, of carbonate of lead. Son N en K alb.—On the Impregnation of Snuff with Lead, especially in refer- ence toLeipsic. N. deut. Zeitsch., vol. xiii, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 82. The author relates nineteen characteristic cases of saturnine poisoning, dependent on this adulteration, in fourteen of which there was paralysis, the remaining five being characterised by gastric symptoms. In the former cases the upper extremities were, for the most part, exclusively affected ; and in those in which there was paralysis of the lower limbs it was with one exception preceded by affection of the upper. In one instance slight and transient paralysis of the left side was preceded by three quasi-apoplectic seizures occurring in the course of five weeks. In eighteen cases the onset of the disease was unaccompanied with fever and increase of temperature. In thirteen there were paralysis and atrophy of the extensors, the supinators remaining entirely free from paralysis, and for the most part from atrophy. In four there was arching of the meta- carpal bones ; and in one the carpal joint was painful on movement, and its synovia was increased. Lead colour of the gums was observed in twelve cases. In all the nineteen the patient was subject to abdominal symptoms, such as colicky pains, and constipation, &c, often for several years. The periods for which the poisoned snuff had been used varied from six months to twenty years. All improved rapidly, and got eventually well on leaving it off. The author considers that the lead is introduced into the snuff entirely from the coverings of lead in which it is packed. Cases of Saturnine Disease, occurring in St. Mary's, Guy's, and King's College Hospitals. Lancet, Jan. 21st. Four cases of lead-poisoning arising respectively from the occupation of a gasfitter, from the use of snuff adulterated with lead, of drinking water so contaminated, and from the frequent scouring of pewter. Lauueit.—On Lead-poisoning by means of Glass Dust. Arch. GC-n., Dec, i860, p. 641.POISONS AND POISONING. 453 9. The Alkaloids. Worm ley —On the Chemical Reactions of Strychnia, Atropine, Brucia, Morphia, Narcotine, and Meconic Acid. Chem. News, April 14th and 28th, June i6tb, July 21st, Sept. 1st, 15th, and 29th. Accidental Poisoning by Opium. Brit. Med. Joum., June 2d. A gentleman Mas treated for acute rheumatism by large doses of acetate of morphia and opium. During the four hours which preceded his death he had taken i of a grain of opium every hour; previously to which period i\ grain of acetate of morphia and i\ grain of opium had been administered in the course of twenty-four hours, without pro- ducing any perceptible effect. Death was preceded by convulsions, in addition to the ordinary symptoms of poisoning by opium. Case of Accidental Poisoning at Canterbury. Pharmac, p. 387, Jan. Several persons were poisoned in November, 1859, by black draughts, in the preparation of each of which about one third of liquor opii was introduced by mistake. The druggist at whose shop this occurred was tried for manslaughter, and acquitted. Pat.f.v.—Case of Poisoning by Strychnia. Brit. Med. Joum., Aug. 4th. Chem. News, Sept. 29th. M. J. P., set. 17, a healthy young woman, was suddenly attacked in a chapel, during service, with convulsion. She was able to walk home as- sisted, but three quarters of an hour after, a second fit occurred which was followed at intervals of from fifteen to twenty minutes by four others, during the last of which she died. Several of these paroxysms were wit- nessed by Dr. Paley. Each accession commenced with convulsive twitch- ings of the limbs, which gradually increased in violence and in the number of muscles affected. Soon all the affected muscles became rigid, the movements of respiration ceased, the pulse could not be felt, and the pa- tient appeared dead. This was followed by gradual relaxation and the breathing and circulation were re-established. The period of apncea lasted a quarter of a minute. Up to the moment of its commencement the patient was conscious, and on one occasion exclaimed, " Hold me, hold me," immediately before the muscles became rigid. At the commence- ment of this period the face was livid, but almost immediately became pale. Spasmodic rigidity continued fifteen or twenty minutes after death, but shortly afterwards disappeared. The autopsy was performed after twenty-three hours; there was then no "unusual rigidity." With the exception of slight traces of inflammation of the stomach and ileum, and of general congestion of the thoracic and abdominal organs, the body was healthy. It does not, however, appear what was the condition of the heart and great vessels as regarded the quantity of blood which they con- tained. The stomach, with its contents, and other organs were submitted to Dr. Letheby. The method used was the following :—The contents of the stomach were digested in alcohol and filtered. The filtrate was pre- cipitated with subacetate of lead, and again filtered ; the second filtrate was treated by sulphuretted hydrogen to remove the excess of lead, and the resulting filtrate evaporated. The residue was dissolved in water rendered slightly alkaline by ammonia, and treated with a large excess of ether ;454 REPOET ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. the ethereal solution on evaporation, yielded a yellowish residue whik Mas treated with a drop of concentrated sulphuric acid, and allowed t! and »„ a warm place for three days. TheWkeled wSTlSS dissolved m water coining a trace of ammonia, and treated whl eK Motaboa of the residue obtained on evaporation W^.SS toa iS ^•T?' uben -he PrPle'blue col°"1- ™» obtained, which]*S ractenstic ot the action of nascent oxygen on strychnia 1n tl.J \,M ?£FiIrZ t[VM' DOt/aken »'coM • Zi.ion wereMo| tamed in the watery extract of a compound of zinc; and by submitting he residue, insoluble both in water and alcohol, to hvdrociI3?3dI 2 solution was obtained which gave traces of a mercurial salt. The ri'n^ afforded, by a similar method, very distinct indications of the presence of strychnia. It was elicited at the inquest that the deceased had bought! iSSSt f f • i 'I*™0-™**'' day before her death, which she ha probably taken with the intent to commit suicide. Kukzak. Tannin as an Antidote to Strychnia. Wien. Ztsch.,N.F vol iii part 2, i860. ' " From twelve experiments the author arrives at the following results • lann.n is a chemical antidote to strychnine. The precipitate obtained byi the addition of tannin to solutions of strychnine is insoluble in the juices ot the stomach. The experiments give reason for anticipating that if administered m cases of poisoning, tannin would prove protective even if no vomiting should occur. In order to be effectual the tannin must be given in the proportion of 20 or 25 to 1. Any substance containing tannin may be administered. Of the best Turkey galls, one drachm at Jeast, ought to be given in powder. Tea has a very inconsi- derable action on strychnine, but coffee is somewhat more effectual. Coffee contains from 3} to 5 per cent, of tannin, but the decoction contains a very inconsiderable quantity, and its action as an antidote is accordingly feeble. Oak bark, the barks of the horse-chestnut or willow, the green shells of the walnut, and acorns are suggested as containing much tannin and likely to be at hand. Jenkins.—On the Defection of Strychnine'and other Proximate Prin- ciples. Chem. News, Oct. 6th. OsBOUN. —Poisoning by Strychnia. Med. Gaz., July 14th. In this case, that of a girl who took strychnia for the purpose of sui- cide, the chloroform process of Rogers and Girdwood afforded satisfactory evidence of the presence of strychnia in the contents of the stomach and duodenum and in the liver. Dr. Osborn, however, found it more conve- nient and effectual to substitute acetic acid as a solvent, for hydrochloric or sulphuric, on account of the large quantity of colouring matter taken lip by these acids. Lbthebt,—On the Chemical Reactions of Strychnia. Chem. News, Juue 9th. A resume of former papers. Death of a Child from Strychnia. Pharm. Journ., July, i860. A child, set. 11, the daughter of a druggist, took from curiosity a poi- sonous dose of strychnia.POTSONS AND POISONING. 455 Dr. Lange.—Case of Poisoning by Atropine. Deut. Klin., No. 19, i860. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 29. § A young woman, set. 20, subject to epileptic seizures, took, in a pet, a solution of about one third of a grain of sulphate of atropine in water. Her condition shortly afterwards was as follows • -Countenance purple red, or livid and bloated, the eyes tumid and glistening, pupils so mucff widened that the rim of the iris had become almost indistinguishable, pulse full and hard (120). No dysphagia, nor increase of the salivary secretion. Discharge of fasces and urine never involuntary. Poisoning by Extract of Belladonna. Pharm., p. 389, Jan. Three juvenile thieves had stolen some belladonna from a herbalist in Covent Garden. They made an infusion of it, which they retailed as liquorice-water to several other boys, who all suffered from the symptoms of poisoning by this drug. Lipowitz.—Poisoning by Coniine. Annalen der Phys. u. Ch., vol. cviii, p. 623. The author describes the method successfully employed by him for the detection of this alcaloid. Mitscherlich and Casper.—Asserted Poisoning by Coniine. Explana- tion of the case. Casper, vol. xv, part 2. Brown.—Poisoning by Aconite. Lancet, Oct. 6, p. 344. About a pound of aconite-root was added to a gallon of pickles, in mis- take for horseradish. Four persons who partook of these pickles were attacked, within an hour after taking them, with symptoms of poisoning— viz., "pricking sensations," " opisthotonos, trismus," "partial loss of sight," "imperceptible pulse," and coldness of surface. These symptoms continued several hours in each case. Hoppe.— Toxicology of Coffein. Gunsb. Ztsch. N. F., vol. i, p. 112. Canst., vol. v, p. 97. Hoppe's experiments were made on animals (frogs) in which the ex- tremities were severed, with the exception of the nerves snpplying^hem ; or the nerves were severed, the other connexions remaining entire. The poison was introduced either by the mouth, by application to the unbroken surface, or by subcutaneous injection. The results were as follows:— Paralysis, both of motion and sensation, the latter occurring be- fore the former. At first increased functional activity of the muscles to which the alkaloid was applied, and contraction of those on which it acts through the circulation; subsequently muscular paralysis; reddening of the tissues to which the substance was applied, and enlargement of the vessels; respiration, at first excited, subsequently diminished and impaired ; the heart's action at first excited, subsequently depressed, and finally paralysed ; the pupils invariably dilated, sometimes after previous contraction, this dilatation being due partly to exudative swelling of the eye, partly to weakening of the sphincter. The arms were more paralysed than the legs. Coffein induces a hypersemic condi- tion of the vessels, manifesting itself in injection of the stomach, lungs, eyes, and cutis, but not in the muscles or nervous centres. This hypertonia is capillary; the author connects with it the action of coffeeREPORT ON LEGAL MEDIC INE AM) PUBLIC HYGIENE. M<§d. de Const., Gaz. d'Orient, No. 5, p. 6. •156 on nutrition, and explain* l>y it tlie fact that under its influence nourish- ment lasts longer. The statements of the author, as reported by Von Clarus, arc in some respects inconsistent. j^iniOFF.—llelleborus and Veratrum Album, Prag. Vjhrschr., vol. Ixiv, pp. 106—142, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 291. , As regards the poisonous action of veratrum, the author finds that the radicles are much more active than the root-stock, and that their activity is entirely confined to their outer rind. The action of the radicles cor- responds in every respect with those of the alkaloid veratrine, the seat of which is therefore considered to be,par excellence, the cortical substance of the radicles. The rhizome, or root-stock, contains relatively much less of the alkaloid, and appears to owe its activity in part to another similar principle, such as the alkaloid sabadillin, discovered by Simon in veratrum sjibadilla. The action of the radicles he describes as follows :—Death is always preceded by tonic and clonic spasm ; at least in no instance were re- flex contractions absent. This the author attributes to a special relation of veratrum to the medulla oblongata and motorial apparatus of the spinal cord—a relation which is also indicated by its effect in retarding the respiratory movements. This retardation does not, as in the case of digitalis and aconite, occur pari passu with impairment of the action of the heart. Neither veratrine nor veratrum produces gastro-enteritis. At the site of its operation, however, it gives rise to a passing hypersemia, resulting, if intense, in shedding of the epithelium of the stomach and intestine. Nausea is a constant result, often vomiting'; but the purgative action of the drug is uncertain. The root-stock, and all preparations of it, differ in their modes of action from the radicles. The spinal spasms nffecting the muscles of animal life are entirely wanting; on the other hand, characteristic reflex paralyses present themselves. Between veratrum and hellebore the following differences are pointed out:—Hellebore produces no reflex spasms or paralysis; the drug has a much greater tendency to increase the secretion of the intestinal canal, while it rapidly extinguishes its irritability, and that of the heart, thus showrrrg that, although it acts less upon the medulla and spinal cord, it exerts a more direct influence on the ganglionic system and on the dependent organic processes. This paresis of the sympathetic accounts for the rapid cessation of the heart's action, which contrasts with the continuance of that action after the cessation of respiration, observed in poisoning by veratrum. The following are the poisonous doses of the preparations of veratrum:—After seventy grains of the fresh root-stock, the characteristic symptoms were produced, but the animal recovered in a few days ; five grains of the alcoholic extract of the same were fatal in thirteen hours. One grain of the alcoholic extract of the radicles produced death in less than three hours, while the same quantity of the extract of the root-stock had a scarcely perceptible effect. Bartsciia.—Poisoning by Colcliicum in a Child. Recovery. Joum. f. Kinderk., vol. xviii, p. 300. Castaldi and Fauvel.— On Poisoning by Belladonna. Soc. imp. dePOISONS AND POISONING. 457 Chevallier.—Poisoning by Belladonna in Coffee containing Chicory. Journ. de Chem. Med., 1860, p. 239. Lopez.—Opium as an Antidote to Belladonna. Amcr. Med.-Clnr. Rev. vol. iv, p. 285. Magxe.— Poisoning by Solanum Nigrum. Journ. de Chem. April, p. 206. Lowenstjsin.—Poisoning by the Seeds of Datura Stramonium. Med. Ztg. Rnsslands, No. 9, i860. Beigel.—Poisoning by the Root of the Conium Maculatum. Recovery. Wien. Med. Wchnschr, No. 52. Fonsius.— On Poisoning by Nicotine. Helsingfors, 1859. Diss. Inaug. Pellarin.—Poisoning by Nux Vomica. Ann. d'Hyg. vol. xiv, p. 431. Walchner.—The Arrow Poison of the Indians. Ungar. Ztschr., vol. xi, pp. 49, 50. 10. Other Vegetable Poisons. Poisoning by Lobelia. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 13th. A herbalist was tried at Bedford in 1859 on a charge of manslaughter, for selling a vegetable infusion to a poor woman, who administered it for Beveral days to her child, set. 2. Dr. H. Barker proved that the bottle contained a brown liquid, of which the sediment was found to consist, on microscopical examination, of the seeds of lobelia inflata. The child died, and, on post-mortem examination, the body was found to be healthy, with the exception of impletion of the cerebral vessels, redness, injection, and corrugations of the stomach and duodenum, general fluidity of the blood, irritation of the urinary passages, all of which appearances accorded with the inference that death was attributable to a narcotico-irritant poison. The herbalist was acquitted. Schroff.—On the Poisonous Action* of Taxus Baccata. Wien. Ztsch., N. F., vol. ii, No. 31. Canst., vol. v, p. 94. Schroff's experiments relate to the alcoholic extract of the berries, and the alcoholic, ethereal, and watery extract of the leaves, and their several actions on man and animals (rabbits). His results are as follows :—The berries have no poisonous action. The leaves contain an acrid and a nar- cotic principle. Both of these are taken up much more readily by ether and alcohol than by water. To the irritant action of the drug are refer- able gastro-enteritis, and acceleration of the action of the heart and of the respiration. Its narcotic action manifests itself, in small doses, by heaviness of the head, giddiness, and incapability of mental occupation ; after large doses, by restlessness, sleeplessness or drowsiness, dizziness', vertigo, dilatation of the pupil, and, in the later stage, retardation of the heart-beat and respiration. In fatal cases in the human subject, death occurs, although suddenly and unexpectedly, in a tranquil manner, by way of collapse; but, in rabbits, is sometimes preceded by violent convul- sions. One gramme of the ethereal extract was fatal to a rabbit in \\ hour, but 2—4 grammes of the alcoholic extract were not fatal till several hours. Kurzak.—The Poisonous Actions of Oleander. Wien. Zeitsch. N F vol. ii, Nos. 44, 50, 51. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 38.REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. 458 Kurzak finds that all the pnrts of the plant are poisonous, the flowers being less so than the rest. The active principle may he extracted hy water or alcohol. Two grammes either of the watery or alcoholic extract of the leaves, wood, or bark were fatal to a rabbit; and the author estimates that 6 grammes of either extract would induce death in man. Symptoms of poisoning presented themselves in the rabbit a quarter of an hour alter the administration of the drug; in birds, 10 minutes. The duration of fatal cases was, in the rabbit, i\—8 hours; in the frog, i£ hour; in the bird, 7—30 minutes. The following symptoms were observed:—In. small doses, weakness of the voluntary muscles, diminution and impair- ment of the respiratory movements, and of those of the heart, sensibility remaining unaltered ; these symptoms were followed by twitching! of the voluntary muscles. In large, i.e. fatal doses, two stages were distinguishable. In the first stage there was progressive impair- ment of voluntary muscular movement, increasing until the animal became motionless. The number both of pulsations and respirations per minute decreased rapidly, the former in one instance from 160 to 128, the latter from 60 to 32, in half an hour. At the same time the respiratory acts were diminished, and the inspiration was reduced to a mere jerk of the abdominal muscles. In the second stage, clonic or tonic spasms of most of the voluntary muscles occurred at long intervals, either dependent on feeble efforts of the animal, or produced by blowing or tapping on it. Finally, respiratory movements ceased, the heart con- tinuing for a short time its action, and retaining its excitability. The convulsions were observed most markedly in frogs, and were absent in birds. With the exception that in these animals and in dogs vomiting occurred, there were no signs of irritant poison. Post-mortem appearances.—Heart flaccid and full of blood ; accumula- tion of blood in the whole venous system ; in rabbits and frogs, redness of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestine attributable to extreme venous congestion. As remedies in cases of poisoning by oleander the author recommends aromatics and other stimulants, particularly tea and coffee, and relates a case successfully treated by the latter. Hasselt and Rienderhoff.—Contribution to the Toxico-dynamics of Santonine. Arch. f. holl. Beitr., vol. ii, p. 231. Schmidt, vol. 108, p. 299. Experiments were made on frogs, rabbits, and dogs. In 40 experiments on dogs, which animals were found to be more susceptible of the action of sautonine than the others, it was given in doses varying from 6 to 60 grains. The authors conclude that santonine exerts its action mainly on the motor nerves, inducing muscular spasm, without increased sensibility. In fatal doses, the result occurs by asphyxia consequent on spasm of respiratory and laryngeal muscles. The appearances after death are hypersemia of the lungs, heart, and cerebrospinal vessels, and capillary injection of the medulla oblongata and spinalis. The orange-red colour of the urine induced in the human subject by santonine is also observed in animals. Smoler.—Poisoning by Croton Oil. Allg. Wen. Med. Ztg. No. 10, i860. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 289.POISONS AND POISONING. 459 In this case a labourer, tet. 43, took by mistake for cod-liver oil about $oz of impure croton oil. The patient was convalescent in a fortnight, the treatment consisting in the administration of bland oils and demul- cents, with a milk diet. The symptoms were, depression of the circula- tion, manifested by the feeble, slow, but regular pulse (64), cyanosis and coldness of the extremities, and the feeling of cold ; respiration slow and difficult; purging and vomiting; redness of the fauces; pain in the pharynx, stomach, and bowels, and headache. Cancella.—Case of Poisoning by Arum Maculatum. Gaceta Med. d' Oporto, vol. vi, i860. A child, set. 3, chewed, at two p.m. on the 2olh of April, i860, leaves and flowers of the common arum. He complained immediately of burn- ing heat; in three hours he fell into a state of profound torpor; at eight p.m. he was prostrate, speechless, but occasionally uttered a piercing cry, often putting his hand to his throat. There was marked abdominal ten- derness on pressure. Death took place at eleven, preceded by delirium and asphyxia. Farre.—Two Cases of Poisoning by eating Lemons. Recovery. Lancet, Nov. 24, p. 308. Two children, aged three and five respectively, were brought into hos- pital in a state of collapse, which was attributed to eating one or two lemons. It was not known whether they had taken any other poison. Socbeiran.—Note on a Poisonous Species of Loranthus. Jo urn. de Pharm., vol. xxxvii, p. 112. After giving an account of the therapeutical uses to which the mistletoe tribe are applied in various countries, the author describes the toxical action of a species of loranthus, which grows on the branches of the strychnos nux vomica, as being identical with that of the latter. He be- lieves that these plants in general derive their activity from the plants on which they grow parasitically. Lallemaxd and Chevret.—Poisoning by Mushrooms. Death of five officers. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxviii, p. 337. In this instance a poisonous species of amanita was served to the mess of a regiment of infantry, by mistake for the common eatable oronge (also a species of amanita, which grows in the woods in autumn). The symp- toms were vomiting, epigastric pain, and abdominal cramps. Six officers partook of the mushrooms, of whom five died, and one recovered. The fatal result was preceded by slight delirium, but no other symptom referable to the nervous system wa3 observed. The paper includes a full discussion of the characteristics by which the poisonous species may be distinguished, and of the symptoms and treatment of mushroom poisoning. Lancereaux.—Poisoning by Mushrooms. Gaz. de Par., No. 43. Marotte.—On Poisoning by Mushrooms. Gaz. des Hop., No. 132. 11. Hydrocyanic Acid and Cyanide of Potassium. Schauenstein.— Cyanide of Potassium in its Forensic relations. Wien. Zeitsch., 1859, vol. xv, No. 1. Canst., vol. vii, p. 15.ltKI'OUT ON LEGAIi MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. 400 Schauenste'm shows that cyanide of potassium is well adapted for the purposes of crime, as exerting its action in small quantity, as being certain, speedy, and difficult to recognise, whether during life or alter death. W.AGNER.—Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. Archiv. der Phys. Ileilk., N. F. iii, p. 417. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 176. A beltmaker, set. 22, took on the 12th of April, 1859, a large quantity of a solution of cyanide of potassium. Some time after he was seized with abdominal pain, became convulsed, and died in a few minutes. The post- mortem appearances were as follows:—The lips and general surface were livid, the rigor mortis strong. On removing the dura mater the bitter- almond smell was distinct. The larger venous trunks of the pia mater only were full of blocd ; the brain-substance was bloodless, the ventricles normal. A little dark, fluid blood was contained in the left ventricle of the heart ; none in the other cavities. There was intense congestion of the mucous membrane of the larynx, trachea, and bronchi. On opening the stomach the bitter-almond smell was very strong ; the organ was found to contain the remains of food, in which Prof. Funke determined the presence of cyanogen. The mucous membrane of the cardia and the fundus was covered with tenacious mucus, dotted with red, and somewhat swollen. That of the rest of the organ was strongly injected on the ridges of the folds, and here and there ecchymosed. The ileum contained a yellowish fluid, the solitary follicles and Peyer's patches numerous, slightly enlarged ; the mesenteric glands were injected. Ebersbekgeu.—Case of Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. Bayer, arztl Intell. Blatt, No. 44. The daughter of a photographer, set. 3, swallowed six grains of cyanide of potassium, dissolved in half an ounce of distilled water, and fell insensible. The author saw her almost immediately ; the eyes were closed, the lips white, the cheeks deadly pale, the extremities ice-cold, the pulse insensible, the heart-beat scarcely perceptible, the epigastrium prominent, and the sphincters rigidly contracted. The head and back were immediately sluiced with solution of nitrate of potass, mixed with ice. In ten minutes there was some relaxation of the rigid muscles, and it became possible to inject per anum a clyster containing sulphate of magnesia, and to intro- duce into the mouth solution of ammonia in gum-water. Soon the heart- beat became distinct, the colour of the lips and the warmth of the extremities returned. Complete recovery took place in thirty-six hours. Suicide by Cyanide of Potassium. Pharmac, p. 390. Poisoning by Essential Oil of Almonds. Pharmac, p. 389. ' A chemist's shop-bov mixed essential oil of almonds instead of oil of sweet almonds in a draught for a child aged nine months, who died in con- sequence. Verdict, accidental death ! Death from Overdose of Prussic Acid. Pharmac. Journal, Sept., i860. , ... . , , Avoun- man, practising medicine without qualification, was char-eel with causing the death of his mother through the negligent administration of Scheele's prussic acid. As there was no evidence either ot the cause of461 POISONS AND POISONING. death or of tlie dose administered, he was acquitted. The trial was re- markable for the contrariety of medical testimony as to the relative mean- ing of the words " drop " and "minim." FlFNELI..—Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. (New York Path. Soc.,) Americ. Med. Times, N. Ser., vol. i, p. 2, July. HtJSEMANN.— Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium, ivith a favorable result. Deut. Klin., No. 13. \ 12. Animal Poisons. Tripe.—On Sausage-poisoning. Brit, and For. Rev., Jan., i860. j A — , butcher, re.-iding at Kingsland, a poor neighbourhood, sold on the" 3d, 4th, and 5th of November, 1859, sausages consisting of lean beef, pork fat, and other materials Of sixty-six persons who partook of them sixty-four were seized with symptoms of narcotico-irritant poisoning, con- sisting in burning pain of the pharynx and epigastrium, followed by vomiting and purging. The vomited matters contained much bile, and the evacuations were watery and peculiarly fetid. These symptoms were usually accompanied with prostration and giddiness, hut in the fatal case;* there was delirium and coma. The contents of the stomach and intestines 'in the fatal case, and the sausages, were examined by Dr. Letheby, but no poisonous substance was detected. Scukoter.—Fatal Poisoning by Sausages. Wiirtemb. Corr. BI., p. 29. . 13. Chloroform. BEHREND.—On the Dangers of the Inhalation of Chloroform ; their Causes, and the Rule for their Prevention. Henke, vol. xxxix, p. 3. The author arrives at the following conclusions, which are important ill a forensic point of view. When death follows the inhalation of chloroform, it may take place rapidly from paralysis of the respiratory and cardiac nerves, referable to the medulla oblongata, or more gradually and at a later period, from deficient reaction. It ought not to be had recourse to in operations of small duration unattended with much pain, because in these the advan- tage gained bears no relation whatever to the possible danger. In weakly, exhausted, or mentally depressed persons, it ought to be particularly avoided, as also in the presence of abnormal conditions of the heart, par- ticularly softening and fatty degeneration, on which account it is a proper precaution to examine carefully the condition of that organ. Chloro- form ought to be administered only by scientifically educated practitioners, and in the presence of one or two assistants, who ought also to be qualified persons. Certain previous preparations are indispensable, viz., as regards the patient, that he should not be submitted to the inhalation of chloro- form either, on the one hand, with a full stomach, or, on the other, in a condition of exhaustion and depression ; and as regards tlie administra- tion, that the means of safety which may possibly be required should be at hand, particularly the apparatus necessary for artificial respiration, the instruments for tracheotomy, volatile stimulants, &c. Chloroform ought never to be administered in a low, confined room, but a large, airv, well- veiitilated chamber must be chosen lor the purpose. The patient mus tREPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. always be placed in a completely horizontal position, with the head but slightly raised; the chloroform vapour is never to be inhaled otherwise than as diluted with atmospheric air, the proportion of which to the chloroform ought always to exceed 92 per cent., and may be increased to 95 per cent. ; or, in other words, the chloroform vapour, as inspired, ought to be mixed with from fourteen to nineteen times as much air. For this pur- pose a special apparatus is recommended, constructed, like that of Dr. Snow, in such a manner that the entrance of atmospheric air is regulated by the valves. If, however, it is wished to do without an Apparatus, a folded cloth is recommended as preferable to a sponge. It must not be too thick, and must be loosely held 011 the nose, so as to admit of the entrance of air through its folds and below its edges. During the inhalation the pulse and respiration must be carefully watched by an assistant, who must keep bis eye for the latter purpose on the epigastric region,and as soon as thepulse becomes weaker and the respiration more slow, or the patient begins to snore, the inhalation must be suspended. Ordinarily there occurs first a period of excitement, with a certain degree of consciousness, which is followed by anaesthesia. If the inhalation is continued, profound intoxica- tion or collapse supervenes. This last stage is attended with danger, and must be by all means avoided; as soon as anaesthesia is produced the in- halation must be suspended, only to be resumed on the appearance of returning consciousness. If, in spite of every precaution, collapse should occur, as, owing to idiosyncrasy, occasionally happens immediately after the first stage, or even after the first two inspirations, recourse must be bad to diffusive stimulants, aspersions of cold water, and other such means. In case of the supervention of apparent death artificial respiration must be commenced. For this purpose the finger is to be passed back so as to raise the epiglottis, and an elastic canula pushed into the larynx, by means of which air is to be blown into the lungs, and the thorax immediately after compressed ; if this cannot be effected, tracheotomy is justifiable, for the purpose of introducing the canula. The employment of electricity is not justifiable. It is necessary to watch the patient for some time after the inhalation, for occasionally chloroform induces after-symptoms, which may be serious, viz., stupor, deficient development of animal heat, and general collapse—a condition which speedily terminates in death unless active stimulants are timely administered. Chloroform may be administered without .scruple to women during pregnancy and lactation ; but caution is recommended in giving it during the puerperal state, and to old persons or children. Linhart.—Death by Chloroform. Oest. Zeit., 1859, vol. v, No. 39. Canst., vol. v, p. 113. In this'case death took place eighteen and a half hours after the admi- nistration of chloroform to a healthy peasant, set. 64, believed to be a drunkard, with a view to the extirpation of a tumour from the lower eyelid. An ounce and a half of chloroform was administered during half an hour, and produced only slight drowsiness. The patient remained well until next morning at six o'clock, when he suddenly died. On examining the body, twenty-four hours after death, all the organs were found healthy. The coagulability of the blood was slightly diminished.463 POISONS AND POISONING. Bucfjner.—Case of Death by Chloroform. Virchow, vol. xvi, pp. 5, 6. Canst., vol. v, p. 3. A photographer, set. 40, had suffered for six or seven years from gall- stones, on account of which he had taken gradually increasing doses of morphia, to the extent of twelve grains daily, but had subsequently dimi- nished his dose to a grain and a half. From this time, whenever the pain increased, he was in the habit of inhaling in the course of a few days four to five pints of ether, and from eight to thirty ounces of chloro- form, which afforded him relief, but subsequently produced crapular pains, which drove him again to the laudanum. He had, in the mean time, several attacks of mania, but showed himself to be a capable work- man during the intervals. One morning Dr. liuchner found him in bed in the condition produced by long inhalation of chloroform, and breath- ing tranquilly ; an hour afterwards he died. Subsequently all the organs were found unaltered, except that the gall-bladder contained seventy-two small gall-stones, and one as large as a bullet was found in the gall- duct. Friedberg.—Means of Becovery in danger of Death from Chloroform. Virchow, vol. xvi, parts 5, 6. Canst., vol. v, p. 113. The author had the opportunity, in the case of a child, set. 4, to whom chloroform was administered for the extirpation of an encysted tumour of the eyelid, of testing the utility of various means of resuscitation. Irritation of the skin had no effect, inflation by the mouth was not tried, the methodical compression of the belly had no result. Recourse was then had to Faradization of the diaphragm. One of the excitors of Dubois-Reymond's induction apparatus was applied to the phrenic nerve at the point at which the omo-hyoid muscle crosses the outer margin of the sterno-cleido-mastoid, and the other excitor on the lateral wall of the thorax in the seventh intercostal space, and pressed as deeply as possible against the diaphragm. The Faradization was employed sometimes on the right side, sometimes on the left, and each time "the circuit was kept closed for a time corresponding to a deep inspiration. The current was ten times interrupted, when an archina; of the belly,' produced by the contraction of the diaphragm, and a short hiccough, took place. When the current was interrupted, by way of experiment, a weak, spontaneous inspiration took place, which was followed by several others! After the third the countenance suddenly reddened, and the radial pulse became perceptible. The induction-stream was then discontinued, and although the breathing and pulse became weaker in consequence, they could be kept up by methodical compression of the belly, accompanied by friction, cold aspersions, and application of ammonia to the nostrils. Both functions were completely restored in twenty minutes after the commencement of asphyxia. » Kidd. On the nature of Death by Chloroform. Med. Gaz., May iath. Dr. Kidd shows that, while no deaths have occurred in consequence of large amputations, resections, ovariotomy, or ligatures of large arteries and but few in the practice of midwifery, two thirds of the whole number recorded have been cases of minor operations on sphincters or tendinous sheaths, of the extraction of teeth, or the operation for squint. He is ofREPORT OS LEGAL MEUU'IN'E AND I'UJJLIC HVGIENE. opinion that tlie stage of excitement wliich precedes anaesthesia is more dangerous than the latter. This he concludes from the fact that, in a total of X2i Cft3es, fifty-four died hefore the operation, forty-two during the operation, and only twenty-five after it. 14. Poisonous Gases. IIasse.—Poisoning by Carbonic Oxide. Pr. Ver. Ztg., 18*59, vo1' >'» No. 35. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 41. The following remarkahle symptoms were ohserved in the survivors of five soldiers, who were exposed during the night to carhonic oxide, in consequence of the closure of the valve of a stove heated with coal. Two were found dead ; in another death occurred in a few hours, being pre- ceded by convulsions. Of the other two, one remained eight davs unconscious, with fluctuating pyrexia, the pulse varying from 88 to 140, and was paralysed until his death, at the twelfth day. On the sixth day the whole surface was covered with bullae of pemphigus, of various sizes; on the eighth consciousness returned, and the patient hegan to improve, but a new eruption of pemphigus followed, with profuse suppuration of the parts on which the patient lay ; before death the extremities were motionless and the bladder paralysed; the urine was am- moniacal, and contained sugar. In the second case consciousness returned after twenty-four hours; he remained, however, languid and apathetic. His bladder was permanently partially paralysed. Although he had only been in bed three days he had bed-sores, and extensive abscesses in the breast and left cheek, occa- sioned by subcutaneous extravasation of blood. The urine contained sugar, and the patient became extremely emaciated. The following appearances presented themselves after death in the first three cases. The blood, which was thin, and of a cherry-red colour, was entirely uncoagulated. There was hypersemia of the brain and its mem- branes, and of all the other organs, excepting the heart and thoracic vessels. In the fourth case this hypersemia was much less marked ; there was no trace of inflammation. SlEBENHAAR and Lehmann.—Poisoning by Charcoal-vapour, its nature, prevention, and treatment ; a Monographical Sketch for the use of Practitioners, Sfc. Dresden, 1858. Canst., vol. vii, p. 10. The symptoms and anatomical changes occurring in cases of death by charcoal vapour are the following :—(1) As constant appearances—rose or vermilion coloration of the soft parts, fluidity and bright colour of the blood, and remarkable repose in the attitude of the body; the discharge of faeces and urine with emission of semen, and vomiting in a state of un- consciousness. (2) As variable phenomena, present in special cases only— persistence of the heat of the body, retardation of putrefaction, unusual flexibility of the limbs, peculiar lustre and transparency of the epidermis, lasting an unnaturally long time; black or gray tinge of the nostrils, and a similar hue of the mucous membrane of the nares, mouth, and air- passages. The authors also discuss the influence of various conditions in modifying the injurious action of charcoal-vapour, Btich as age, sex, and individualPOISONS AND POISONING. 465 peculiarity, this last with reference to the great differences which exist between different individuals in their liability to be affected by an atmo- sphere impregnated with it. Bolley.—An Antidote against Inspired Chlorine. Oesterlen's Zeitsch., vol. i, p. i. Dr. Bolley proposes to use a weak acid solution of aniline in water, to be applied to the nostrils on a handkerchief. The aniline is at once acted on by the chlorine, and converted into aniline mauve. 15. Other Poisons. Rose.—Poisoning by Alcohol. Med. Gaz., Sept. 8. A child, set. 3, took at 11 a.m., May 28th, a quartern of raw rum and two ounces of gin. He at once fell insensible. When seen imme- diately after, he was comatose, the skin was warm, the pupil contracted to a pin point, the pulse was full and slow, and the face was flushed. Free vomiting was induced by sulphate of zinc and tickling the fauces. An hour after, the patient remained insensible, but could be roused by gentle flagellation ; the pupils were largely dilated. Two hours after, no further progress having been made, a convulsive paroxysm occurred, followed immediately by death. On post-mortem examination eighteen hours after, the mucous membrane of the stomach was found to be injected at the cardiac extremity, but no other morbid appearance presented itself. Casper.—A new Poison. Casper, vol. xvi, part 1. Canst., vol. vii, p. 16. In this paper, nitrobenzid or nitrobenzin is treated of, as a poison easy to be obtained, on account of its cheapness as well as its use in the manufacture of perfumery. This liquid—first obtained by Mitscherlich, by the introduction of a small portion of benzin into warm fuming nitric acid, and washing the product with water—crystallizes in needles at ;7 4° Fahr., has a sp. gr. of 1209 at 590, boils at 4150. The density of its vapour is 4-4; its constitution is Cl2H5N04, according to which formula, and the mode in which it is obtained, it is regarded as a body derived from benzin, by the substitution for one of its atoms of hydrogen, of an atom of N04. It is only slightly soluble in water, but dissolves easily in alcohol, ether, and oils, the alcoholic solution being decomposed by zinc and hydrochloric acid, with the formation of water and aniline. In respect of its poisonous action, it is to be noted that it possesses a characteristic and powerful odour, indistinguishable from that of bitter almonds, so that this smell can no longer be exclusively relied on as an indication of the presence of prussic acid. PlNCUS.—Method of Detecting the -presence of small quantities of Essen- tial Oil of Mustard. Journ. f. prakt. Chem., vol. Ixviii, p. 113. In a medico-legal investigation, the author availed himself of the reac- tion of the nitroprusside of sodium on sulphides as a means of detect- ing essence of mustard, by heating which with potash, sulphuret of potassium is obtained among other products. 30REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. MEDICAL RESPONSIBILITY. Malpraxis. Toulmouchb.-On JudicalAutopsies in eases of Natural Death and « \XTo ' 9 ^ t0 th°8e Mi***e,. Ann d'Hyg xiv A collection of cases derived from an experience of thirty years, LI f Tl dea,thS b6Came the subJect °f Judicial investigat on Tbt most frequent are those of cerebral hemorrhage, pneumonfa and mil ZZiT^ , Am°ng thG m°re Uncommo" -Les of sudden dePa b trsSnAZZ ^ VaSe °f Cr0UP' of gangrenous abscess of the nS buisting mto the pleural cavity, cases of typhoid fever, and phlebitis. K^IISOH.r-Medico-legal Opinions of the Royal Prussian .Scientific Com* mission for Medical Afairs, fr. Leipsic, i859. Cases i, 2,3, 4,and I2. Niemann (he. e\£-Injuries of the Female Organs of Generation ■ Autopsies of Women dying after Delivery. J $$. Death in consequence of partial reparation of the placenta- with re erence to the obstetrical treatment employed. 56. Injury of the, external organs 57. Uterine hemorrhage/ 58. Gangrene of uterus head of the child retained in the uterus ; Cesarean section. 80. Prolapse of the cord ; death of the child by apoplexy; imputation of negligence^ against the practitioner. 0 c Dambue.—On the Discretion of the Practitioner, in its Medico-leaaV Relations. Ann. Med. Psych., 3 ser., vol. v, p. 621. Kalisch.— On the Mistakes of Practitioners. Leipzig, 3mo, pp 31 j SIMULATED DISEASES. Ebe-rs.—Hyperesthesia of the Sense of Smell as a Forensic Question. A Thief Smeller. Opinion of the Royal Medical College of Silesia Casper, xvi, part 2. Canst., vii, p. 22. Fabeb.—Simulation of Stone in the Bladder. Deut. Zeit., vol. xiv, part 1. Canst., vii, p. 22. In this case bits of plaster of various sizes were introduced into the urethra, with simulation of the pains usually attendant on calculus. The cheat was discovered by submitting the material to chemical analysis. Schaible.—Opinion on a case of Pretended Mania. Deut. Zeit., vol. xiii, part 1. Krauss.—Case of Pretended Imbecility of an Incendiary, heard before the Jury-court of Tubingen. Friedreich, vol. x, part 1. Canst.,' vii, p. 22.467 PREGNANCY AND ABORTION. IMPOTENCE AND STERILITY. Schneider.—Medical Opinion given before the Supreme Court in a Divorce Case. Deut. Zeit., vol. xiii, part 2. In this case the application to have the marriage annulled was on the ground of partial hypospadias. Chesnet.—Malformation of the Genital Organs; Hypospadias ; mistaken Sex. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xiv, p. 206. PREGNANCY AND ABORTION. Kussmaul.—On Conception after Impregnation, (Nach-empfangniss), or on Superfcetation and Super-impregnation. Deut. Zeit., vol. xiii, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 23. The word superfcetation (Ueberschwaugerung) is limited by the author to signify the impregnation of several ova, matured during the same period of ovulation by one act of intercourse, a case which is proved to occur in the mare, and'is probable in the human female ; while super-impregnation (Ueberfruchtung) takes place when an ovum of the second or any subse- quent ovulation after the commencement of pregnancy, is fecundated. The possibility of this occurring in the human female is also unproved, as all the existing cases of so-called superfcetation admit of other explana- tions. These cases may be divided into those of impregnation of two ova of the same ovulation, developed in different situations, and those where impregnation has occurred during extra-uterine pregnancy, and has been followed by the death of the embryo (superfcetatio impropria). No case has been reliably recorded in which a woman has conceived while a dead ovum was retained in the uterus. Neither the decidua nor the mucous plug of the os internum would offer any absolute obstacle to the penetration of the semen, but the ovum itself, as soon as it occupies the whole cavity of the uterus, would constitute such an obstacle. Inferences in favour of superfcetation are to be drawn from cases in which mature twin children have been born at intervals of several months. The most remarkable of these are subject to the explana- tion that the one was premature and born before the time, and that the development of the second was retarded, and that it was born after the time, an hypothesis which derives support from the remarkable observa- tions of Bischoff and Ziegler on the development of the ovum of the roe. Vox Kletzinsky.—Abortifacients, considered in a Chemico-Legal point of View. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, part 4. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. According to this author, abortifacients are to be divided in a chemical point of view into two classes, of which the first includes the more powerful emmenagogues and those substances which are supposed, rightly or wrongly, to exercise a special action on the pregnant uterus (compounds of boracic acid, ergot, and its alkaloid) ; and the second, all drastic pur- gatives, the more powerful emetics, and the sternutatories. Having arrived at the conclusion that the substance in question is an abortifacient, the chemist will direct his inquiries to the following drugs and chemical compounds :—the alkaloids, ergotineand veratrine; the metallic poisons,HSPOBT ON LliOAL MKDICINK A Nil PUBLIC HYOIKNK. 4GS particular!; the compounds of antimony, zinc, copper, and mercury ; com- pounds of boracic acid ; aloes and jalap ; and lastly, tannin, the presence of which, in large quantity, will lead to the suspicion of savin, which may. be further recognised by its volatile oil and other reactions. Friedreich.—On Abortion. Friedreich, io, 6. Canst., vol. vii, p. 2. In this case, an unmarried woman, confined with twins, was accused of attempting abortion, having confessed to have taken for this purpose, at the fifth month, a quantity of decoction of savin. Heller and Von Kletzinsky.—Judgment and Opinion on the Chemico- leyal Analysis in the Proceedings taken in relation to a charge of Abortion with the Powders of B. M. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, part 2. In this case the chemical analysis of the powders yielded a negative result. Heller and Von Kletzinsky.—Judgment and Opinion on the Chemico- legal Analysis of the Tea taken by along with the Appendix to the proceedings taken against E. S— on the charge of Abortion. Ibid., vol. v, part 3. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. In this case indications were obtained, by the comparison of the sub- stances found with specimens of drugs reputed as abortifacients, with regard to their botanical and morphological characters, of the presence of laurel berries, althea root, flowers of red poppy, mallow, thyme, sneeze- wort, and six other drugs. CHOULANT.—Abortion and Murder. Superarbitrium of the Medico- chirurgical Academy of Dresden. Casper, vol. xvi, part 1. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. A case of attempted abortion with ergot, oil of savin, of juniper, and of mace, aloes, jalap, and castor-oil. Poisoning of a child aged four months. DELIVERY, BIRTH, AND INFANTICIDE. Maschka.—Opinion on the remains of the Body of an Infant found in a Canal. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, No. 44. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. In this case it was assumed, from the progress of putrefaction, that the body had been immersed from eight to fourteen days. The mud in which the body was found had distinctly penetrated to the smallest branches of the bronchial tubes, affording proof that the infant had performed the inspiratory act; while, on the other hand, the state of the lungs gave no indication of having contained air. Two explanations were possible— either that the inspiratory act took place after immersion, so that the infant drew in water instead of air ; or that (he air was really inspired, but that all traces of its presence in the lung had been effaced by putrefaction. VOLTOLINI.—The Centre of Ossification of the Inferior Epiphysis of the Femur. Casper, vol. xvi, part 1. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. The centre of ossification in this case furnished an exception to the rule, that a measurement of three lines affords ground for concluding that the child has lived. In this case it measured four and a half lines in a child who died immediately after birth.469 DELIVERY, BIRTH; AND INFANTICIDE. Makklin.—On Life and Respiration in the New-born Child. Casper, vol. xvi, part i. Canst., vol. vii, p. 24. By the detection of foreign matters of various kinds, such as, in one case, black and white sand, in another the contents of a privy in the stomach and alimentary canal of two newly-horn children, it was concluded that as such suhstanccs must have been ingested by the child after separation from the body of the mother, and must have entered the stomach by the act of swallowing, blood had circulated and breathing must have taken place. ' Yezin.— On the question whether Incineration of the Body of a Newly- born Child, which was so complete that the remains of the bones only were left, was accomplished with an ordinary Fire in an ordinary Stove. Henke, vol. xxxix, part 1. Answer in the negative. Stadelmayer.—Accusation of Child-murder before the Jury of Lower Bavaria. Ib., vol. xxxix, part 2. Scuuemacher.—Proceedings against A. N—, accused of the crime of Child-murder, attempted Abortion, and the offence of Concealment 0 f Birth. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, Nos. 22, 29. Maschka.—Casper, loc. cit. Case fr Newly-born child, the body of which was found in a pond in a state of putrefaction, with a cord round its neck. Undecided opinion; probabilities in favour of still-birth. Born.—Drowning of a New-born Child in a Privy. Ib., vol. xvi, part 1. Brostus.—Doubtful mode of Death of a Newly-bom Child found in Ice. Deut. Zeit., vol. xiii, part 2. Niemann.—Medico-legal autopsies. Loc. cit. Part 10. Researches re- lating to the Vitality and mode of Death of New-born Children. 74. Extreme degree of putrefaction ; injuries of the skull. 75. Proof that respiration had taken place yielded by the lung-test, notwithstand- ing the destruction of several blood-vessels. 76. Fracture of the skull, produced, not by a fall on the ground, but by external violence. 77. Extreme degree of putrefaction ; mark of a cord; proof that the cord had been applied to the living childjunsatisfactory. 78. Effusion of blood in the head, with fissure of skull; question whether consequent on birth or external violeuce. 79. Death by suffocation of a child buried in the earth. 81. Sugillation of the head; probably death by external violence. 82. Extreme degree of putrefaction ; fissure of the skull. 83. Concealment of the body of a child. 84. Sugillations of the head, probably arising from external violence. 85. Sugillations of the head and softening of the brain. 86. Doubtful respiration. 87. Extreme degree of putrefaction ; collections of blood in the head, possibly arising from this cause. 88. Sugillations of the head in a child not completely born, not consequent on birth. M LSCHKA.—Indications of Apoplexy by Suffocation of a New-born Child, ivith simultaneous discharge of Blood from the forehead and nose ; Death by Violence, probably in consequence of Pressure exerted by the Mother. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. v, No. 48.470 ItEPOltT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. lioxHAMEL. Analysis of spots of Meconium, Vernix Caseosa, and Milk, made for the investigation of a case of concealment of birth and charge of child-murder, Henkc, vol. xxxix, part i. In these analyses meconium was indicated by the presence of fat, cholestcrine, mucus, a fatty colouring matter, and the absence of biliary colouring matter and of the bile-acids. Vernix caseosa was inferred by the presence of fat, mucus, and carbonate of lime; the milk-stains exhibited the characters of the secretion of the mammary glands immediately after delivery, fat, sugar of milk, caseine, potash, lime, magnesia, hydrochloric, sulphuric and phosphoric acids, being detected. Hofmann.—Cases of Child-murder. Deut. Ztsch., vol. xv, p. 100. Schindlee.—The Remains of a Child found in Water. Casper, vol. xvii, p. 247. Erpenbeck.—On the question of the Life of the New-born Child. Casper, vol. xviii, p. 364. Fkickhofeh. — Medico-legal Opinion on a Case of Child-murder. Nass. Corr. Bltt,, vol. i, part 2. Hofmann.—Researches on Child-murder; Investigation in a case of Exposure of a Child. Henke, vol. lxxx, p. 191. Lisiann.—On some cases illustrative of the Lung-test, observed in legal obductions. (Cases of Death brf Browning in the Newly-born.) Monschft. f. Geburtsk., vol. xvi, No. 26. IJIMOKAL ASSAULTS. Penaud.—On the Intervention of the Medico-Legist in questions of Immoral Assaults (Attendats aux Mceurs). Paris, 1860, pp. 140. The purpose of M. Penard's paper is to establish an identity and Uniformity between the bar, the bench, and (he medical expert, in the use of terms, with a view to the definition of the offence. He proposes to divide immoral offences into those in which public or private decency is merely outraged (l'outrage a la pudeur), those in which an immoral assault is committed without rupture of the hymen (1'attentat a la pudeur), those in which the hymen is ruptured, but not to such an extent as to admit of complete penetration (tentative de viol), and lastly, those in which the rupture is so complete (viol). The work contains numerous records of cases, and the author discusses in detail every point of medical evidence which is likely to present itself. Haschek.— Violation of a Child Eight Months old. Oest. Zeitsch., vol. xxxii, No. 33. The offence was committed by a lad of eighteen. There were redness, swelling, and great tenderness of the labia minora and of the parts adjoining the orifice of the urethra, rupture of the hymen, framuliim labiorum, and of the perinoeum throughout, and laceration of the posterior wall of the vagina. Schuemacher.— The Crime of Rape. Siqiposed Violation of A. M— when in a helpless condition (Somnambulism). Oest. Zeitsch. vol. v, Nos. 67-9.FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. 471 FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. Hoffbauer.—On the Causes of the recent remarkable prevalence of Suicide, and its prevention. (The Prize Essay of the German Society for the Promotion of Psychiatry and Legal Psychology.) Neuwied, 1859. Canst., vol. vii, p. 20. In this work the subject is discussed in detail, and is illustrated by instructive cases. It is divided into four sections, of which the first treats of the mental constitution of man, and its relations to himself and the outer world. In the second, suicide is discussed generally; it is defined as intentional and conscious annihilation of one's own life, without virtuous motive, and considered in regard to the multiplicity of the means of its accomplishment, the condition of the suicide before and during the act, the influence of hereditary tendency, of temperament, of age and sex, its epidemic prevalence, and its communicability (Ansteckungs fahigkeit). The third section relates to the causes of the increased frequency of suicide. As predisposing causes are specified—great natural calamities, the scarcity of provisions, the increasing extravagance in matters of religion, with the corresponding increase around it of infidelity; while poverty, misfortune, gambling, speculation and swindling, corruption of manners, political disturbances, drunkenness, disease, continued pain, &c, are to be con- sidered as the exciting causes. The author considers in the fourth sec- tion the means most effectual for the diminishing the frequency of suicide, some of the principal of which are—the improvement of popular educa- tion, the removal of restrictions on labour, free trade in the necessaries of life, the promotion of benefit societies, savings banks and life assu- rance, the prevention of mendicancy and over-population, the retrench- ment of unnecessary expenditure and of the abuse of spirituous liquors, the abolition of gambling, the amendment of manners, and the promotion of true religion. Magg.—An Answer to the Prize Question proposed by the Society for the Promotion of Psychiatry, fyc, of Vienna, for the year 1857. Deut. Zeit., Neue Folge, vol. xiii, part a. MUller (Otto). — Suicide, a Psychiatrical Sketch. Harburg, 1859. Canst., vol. vii, p. 20. Dr. MUller looks at suicide entirely from the side of mental disease. In relation to its intrinsic and extrinsic causes, he divides cases of suicide into four main groups. The first includes suicide in which the act results from the existence of false notions in the mind, and life is sacrificed to a delusion, the reality of which is such that it annihilates all hope and desire. To the second belong suicides from melancholy, characterised by the existence of morbid sensations, particularly precordial pain. This kind of suicide is often consummated early, at that period of the case at which the patient first ceases to be conscious of his disease as such, and begins to regard his sensations as real. The third and fourth group include suicidal acts which cannot be attributed to any actual mental disease, and must therefore be regarded as prepense acts ; but even in these the author maintains the existence of a perversion of mind on the part of the suicide, by whatever other causes the act may be induced.KBBOttT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AN1J PUBLIC HYGIENE. In relation to this condition he divides cases according to the mode and degree in which it manifests itself. In some cases a morbid tone of mind (Stimmung) exhibits itself in depression, sorrowfulness, and taedium vita:, which are indications of disease of the sympathetic nerve, and of consequent abnormal conditions of the organs to which it is distributed. The extrinsic causes of suicide are, for the most part, the following the mental feebleness which characterises our over-refined and sensitive age, the increase of bodily diseases which are dependent on deficient hrematosis, and the form assumed by the political and social relations of the day. The author considers that the only way to diminish the fre- quency of suicide is to teach mankind how to counteract those injurious agencies, intrinsic to his nature, which result in mental and corporeal feebleness. Willeks-Jessen.— The main Questions of Medico-legal Psychology Casper's Handbook, Biological Part, Berlin, 1858. Deut. Klinik, 1859, N°8, 7, 9, 11, 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21. Canst., vol. vii, p. 26. An unfavorable criticism of the doctrine of Casper, relating to the question of criminal responsibility. Jessen is of opinion that, in medico- legal investigations involving this question, the practical issue of the liability of the agent to the imputation of criminal motive ought to be the primary object of inquiry, and that it is in the end more conducive to the purpose in view to lay the foundation in a thorough investigation of the psychical state of the subject. For this purpose he considers it to be of the utmost importance to recognise and discriminate the several forms under which mental derangements manifest themselves, especially those which lie on the borders of somatic disease on the one hand, or of a healthy condition on the other. And he considers that no more satis- factory proof can be obtained of the existence of a mental disease than that which arises from the demonstration that it belongs to an already recognised nosological form. Roller. — On Mental Derangements, in their relation to the administra- tion of Criminal Justice. (Official Report of the Tbirty-fourth Congress of German Naturalists and Physicians at Carlsruhe, Sept., 1858. Edited by the Secretaries, Eisenlohr and Volz. With live plates and sixteen woodcuts). Karlsruhe, 1859. pp. 22. Canst., vol. vii, p. 26. Roller's report relates especially to those mental derangements which are difficult to recognise—e.g. those in which the manifestations of disease are limited to busy restlessness, wilful mischievousness, and unceasing quarrelsomeness, or in which the abnormality lies not in the nature of the conceptions, hut in the coercive influence which they exercise on the mental life ; to which may he added the so-called associated mental de- rangements (such as those which accompany epilepsy or other somatic diseases). The author defines the province of a medical witness very differently from the writer last referred to. He holds it to be his business to lay down whether or not, and in what manner, free mental action, inherent in man, is disturbed or suspended, referring for this purpose, only in the second place, to the actual forms of mental disease. He advocates the importance of placing the treatment of mental disease more4)73 FOKliNslC PSYCHOLOGY. completely in the hands of physicians, and the desirableness of giving to the medical profession a position of greater influence than they now possess, both as regards legislation on matters concerning insanity and in the administration of criminal justice. Eulenmeyer.—Be Melancholia Transitoria. Corrcspdbltt. der d. Gesell. f. Psych., vol. v, Nos. 8—10. Acute melancholia may assume the form of successive, short, transitory attacks, recurring at shorter or longer intervals, or may come on in an isolated manner. A distracted temper of mind ofteu precedes the attack for some time, which, however, may only be distinguishable in the con- dition of cerebral excitement consequent upon emotion or excess in spirituous liquors. During this period the patient expresses appre- hensions either on his own account or on that of others, and even com- mits slight excesses, although he is in other things for the most part in an entirely normal condition. The attack may, however, come on with- out any warning; consciousness may be entire, so that the patient subsequently remembers all its details, or it maybe annulled and memory wanting. Its fundamental character is that of mental anguish and despair, which is communicated to the distressing delusions under which the patient labours. Under their influence he imagines himself in danger, and attempts to defend himself, to seize and injure his enemies, or to make attempts against his own property or person. Cases of neglected or unrecognised Brain Bisease and Nascent Lunacy. Psych. Quarterly Abstr. in Journ. of Psych. Med., vol. xiii, p. Ixiii. This paper is founded on the cases of Whitworth, a lunatic, not before known to be so, who murdered his wife and six children in the Isle of Wight, in June, i860, and on those of Kirkwood, Hinchcliffe, and Hopley. T. Kirkwood, set. 30, a soldier, was indicted for the wilful murder of E. A. Parker. The prisoner went to pass his furlough with his sister. While there he made acquaintance with the victim, a young widow residing in the neighbourhood. Shortly afterwards, in the course of a farewell embrace, he cut her throat with a razor. She died within a few hours after the injury, making a dying declaration that she knew of 110 motive for the act. The prisoner was habitually sober. Two of his com- rades swore that he was eccentric and moody, and was in the habit of getting up at night. Baron Wilde directed the jury that mere eccen- tricity was not sufficient to excuse a man from the crime of murder; that it might well be that such a man should understand the distinction between right and wrong ; but that they must acquit if they thought that his mind was so unsound that he did not know the character and quality of the acts he was committing. Verdict of acquittal, on the ground o'f insanity. Mr. G. H. II—, set. 33, a gentleman in good position, was married on August 3d, 1859, an(1 immediately after went to Clifton with his wife. At the close of the day, after telling his wife that they could not be happy together, he suddenly left her and went to lodge elsewhere, and during th third night committed suicide by throwing himself out of a window ° He had previously been nervous, but perfectly sane, and performed the duties of coroner for Staffordshire with credit.474. REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HYGIENE. Thomas Hopley, a schoolmaster, and a man of "high attainments," was tried at the Lewis assizes for the manslaughter of Reginald C. Cancellor, ahoy, ret. 15. The lad exhibited no aptitude for learning, and was looked upon as hcing unusually obstinate by his master, who stated, when examined, " that the deceased was a very peculiar boy, and was not only very obstinate, but was also actuated by a determination not to learn anything;" "that he did not know the difference, or pretended not to know it, between a shilling and a sixpence." It was proved that, for a period of nearly two hours, the prisoner beat Cancellor with a skipping- rope and a stick, and that the boy either died under the punishment or very quickly after. The legs and arms exhibited, at the subsequent examination, very extensive contusions and subcutaneous lacerations, and two wounds as if by a pointed stick. The brain exhibited evidence of chronic hydrocephalus. Verdict of guilty. Sentence—four years' penal servitude. The author infers, from the preceding cases, the extraordinary ignorance which prevails among all classes of society concerning the significance of some marked forms of brain disease. Had a degree of perversion cor- responding to that witnessed in the functions of the brain, been manifested in the different cases in the functions of the heart, the intestines, or the muscular system, the need of the physician would have been at once felt and his aid sought. The author concludes in the words of Lelut:—" From complete or philosophical reason to delirium truly maniacal there are innumerable degrees, of which it would be advantageous that every man should have a general knowledge." The remainder of the article relates to the recent occurrence of cases of attempted suicide, which, from the comparative triviality of the causes inducing the act, "indicate the existence of a most unhealthy tone of thought on the suhject among certain of the metropolitan classes." The author refers not so much to suicides prompted by despair, and referable in general to mental disease, as to those "make-believes at felo de se" which are prompted by drunkenness or imposture, and generally take place within sight or call of timely assistance. Homicidal Maniacs at large. Journ. of Psych. Med., vol. xiii, p. xii. In commenting on the case of Pownall, a gentleman, who, having been recently liberated from an asylum, got up one morning and, without pro- vocation, cut the throat of a maid-servant, in August, 1859, anc* 011 t,iat of Moore, a mechanic, who murdered his wife at Finsbury under similar circumstances on the 28th November following, the editor remarks that the improper dismissal of these and other homicidal lunatics was fairly attributable to the popular outcry against the supposed unjust detention of individuals in private asylums, to the influence which this clamour has lately exercised on the bar and the bench, and the expression of such opinions by persons in high position, as that of Lord Shaftesbury, "that the opinion of a man of ordinary observation is better than that of a medical man in determining the question of insanity." Arnold VON Franqoe.—On Delirium Tremens. (An Essay submitted to the Medical Faculty of Munich, pro tenia legendi.) Munich, 1859. From statistical inquiries Franque concludes that there is a remarkable475 FOItENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. relation, as regards frequency of occurrence, between delirium tremens, crime, and insanity. Skipper aud Skipper v. Bodkin and others.—(Court of Probate, Dec. 8th.) Journ. of Psych. Med., vol. xiii, p. 118. In this case the defendants, being relatives of the deceased, opposed probate of the will on the ground that at the time of its execution the deceased was not of testamentary capacity, and that he was induced to execute it through the undue influence of the plaintiffs and others. The questions placed before the jury were—(i) Did the testator understand the nature of his property ? (2) Was he so importuned as to deprive him of his free judgment. Verdict for the plaintiff on the issue of capacity, for the defendants on that of undue influence. Williams v. Evans.—Disputed Will. {Plea of Unsound Mind. Court of Probate, May 18th.) Journ. Psych. Med., vol. xiii, p. 433. The will was disputed on the gvound that the deceased, who died at the age of seventy, had, before it was executed, had an attack of paralysis, since which he had become childish. Dr. Winslow, who had examined him during life with reference to a petition for a commission in lunacy, presented by the defendant, gave evidence in proof that he was a person of sound mind and capable of managing his affairs. Friedreich.— Impulse to the gratification of a Vice as a motive to Crime. Bl. f. g. Anthropol., vol. x, part 6. Kkugelstein.—On the condition of the Deaf and Dumb, and its rela- tion to Legal Medicine. Henke, vol. xxxix, part 1. Hofmann.—Accusation of Qualified Murder. (Proceedings before the Jury-court of Upper Bavaria.) Henke, vol. xxxix, part 1. Fleciiner.—Case of Incendiarism by a Lunatic. Oest. Z., vol. v, No. 31. Masciika.—Medico-legal Contributions. Loc. cit. Cases 7, 8, and 9. 7. Opinion on the mental condition of J. F—, accused of murder. Melan- cholia, with intercurrent mania. 8. Opinion on the mental condition of A- y—> guilty of murder. Mental derangement at a period long pre- ceding the commission of the act. 9. Ditto of F. M—, accused of incen- diarism. Opinion, either that he was not the author of the crime, but, influenced by insane delusions in the delirium of typhus, had set fire to his neighbour's house; or that he was the original contriver of the crime, which he accomplished in a state of mental derangement concurrent with typhus. Krauss.—Imputation of Incendiarism; Epilepsy; Imbecility; Pyroma- nia; Viciousness; Question of Responsibility\ Casper, vol. xiv, p. 1. Bukn-ann.—Burning and Poisoning ivith Phosphorus by a Girl of twelve years. Casper, vol. xvi. p. 2. Kalisch.—Loc. cit. Cases 6, 9, and 14. Case 6. Mortal injury; doubtful criminal responsibility; investigation of a previous question of doubtful disposing power settled by the act 9. Question of murder, with doubtful responsibility 5 hereditary tendency to insanity. 14. Criminal responsibility of an incendiary, ret. 15 ; arrested17(3 BBJOJEW ON LKC-AL MEDICINE AND PUBLIC JlYGJKNE. development of the mental and bodily powers , legal liability to punish- ment according to age annulled by natural defect. ^UttinGBR.—Murder perpetrated by the student Fernet; under the in- Jtuence of disappointment, on the object of his affections. Friedreich vol. x, No. 6. ' Blosfeld.—Opinion on a doubtful Case of Suicide. Deut. Zeit., Keue rolge, vol. xiii, part i. Sen lager. On the question of the Competence of Legal Psi/chofooi/. . Oest. Zeitsch., v, Nos. 10 and n. J J J JJ The author mainly insists on the exclusive competence of the medical man to discriminate as to the existence and duration of all those condi- tions of mental disturbance which are dependent on or consecutive to acute disease of the brain. Legrand du Saulle.—On the Criminal Responsibility of Hysterical Persons. Journ. of Psych. Med., xiii, p. 270. The author discusses the question very fully, and disputes the legiti- macy of a recent decision. M.— On Morbid Transports of Rage. Friedreich, vol. x, part 1. On Home Sickness. Ib., vol. x, part 1. On Criminal Madness. Ib., vol. x, part 2. Dorien.—On Drunkenness—Legal Superarbitrium. Casper, xvii, p. 130. Giraud-Tevlon.—On the Moral Responsibility of Hysterical Persons. Gnz. de Paris, No. 53, i860. Neuman.— On the applicability of the Idea "Deficiency of Mental Power" in the Legal Definition of Idiocy. Casper, xvii, p. 164. Schumacher.— On the Mental and Emotional Condition of a Person accused of Arson. Oest. Ztsch., vol. v, No. 43. Wachsmuth.—Is there such a thing as the so-called Impulse to In- cendiarism ? Or is the crime of Incendiarism in individuals, at the supervention of puberty, referable to other motives and conditions, and capable of explanation in this way? Henke, vol. xl, part 1. Ho EM ANN.—Responsibility of a Murderer prompted by Excessive Love. Henke, vol. lxxix, p. 286. Schmiu.— Opinion on the Bodily and Mental State of a Child-murderer. Casper, vol. xvii, p. 260. Billod.—Simulation of Insanity. Medico-legal Reports. (Extracted from the Ann. Med. Psych.) Paris, 8vo, pp. 44, i860. Hofaiann.—Accusation of Theft; Question of Responsibility. Henke, vol. Lvxx, p. 191. Jessen (Willers).—Incendiarism in Emotional and Mental Derangements. (A Contribution to Forensic Medicine for Lawyers and Medical Practitioners.) Kiel, 8vo, pp. 335. Lowenhardt.—On the Anthropological Motives of Mental Deficiency. Preuss. Ver. Zeit., N. F., vol. iii, p. 29. Pomarel.—Self-injury, consequent on momentary Loss of Conscious- ness. Gaz. de Paris, i860, No. 28. Wistkand.—On the Medico-legal Discrimination of Bodily Injury in an Intoxicated Person. Henke, vol. Ixxx, p. 175.GENERAL TREATISES AND REPORTS. 477 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. I. GENERAL TREATISES AND REPORTS. Simon.—Report of the Medical Officer of Health to the Privy Council. 1859. The report consists of four parts, of which the first relates to public vaccination, the second includes inquiries relating to the causes of dis- ease in single localities, the third to the mortality from diarrhcea, and the fourth to the prevalence of diphtheria. Under the head of public vaccination, the author, after giving a summary statement of the facts con- tained in his former report on vaccination, which prove the factitious and unprotective character of much of the prevailing vaccination in England, both public and private, relates the considerations which led the Privy Council to take steps for improving the qualifications of public vaccinators, and securing the efficient performence of their duties. The measures taken by the Privy Council in pursuance of the provisions of the Public Health Act, 1858, for promoting a better supply of vaccine lymph, are also nar- rated. To obviate the deficiency arising from too great subdivision, recommendations were made to the Poor Law Board, and through that body to the boards of guardians, suggesting a reduction of the number of stations, particularly in the metropolis and other large towns. This suggestion lias been very extensively carried out. As a further means of promoting the same object, Mr. Simon reports favorably on the method recom- mended by Dr. Husband in the paper quoted below. The remainder of the report consists entirely of original contributions, of which an account will be found under the names of their respective authors. Parkin.—The Causation and Prevention of Disease. London, 8vo, 1859. The author refuses his assent to the common opinion which refers the production of zymotic diseases to the decomposition of animal and vege- table matter, to overcrowding, or the use of impure water; and cites the innumerable instances in which persons subject to these influences are in the enjoyment of perfect health. He further shows that the known gaseous products of decomposition are each of them, taken separately, incapable of producing disease. He admits, however, the existence of poisonous elements in the atmosphere, which originate, not at the surface of the earth, but by " volcanic action " in its interior. " All general and specific diseases—or, in other words, epidemics and endemics—are due to the extrication of a gaseous substance from the interior to the exterior of the earth." Vernois.—Treatise on Industrial and Administrative Hygiene, comprising the Study of unwholesome, dangerous, and inconvenient Trades. 2 vols., 8vo, Paris, i860. This work is divided into two parts, of which the first treats of the relations of public health with the administration ; the second, whichItErOItT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 478 constitutes the greater part, of the various branches of industry, in their relation to health. The first part treats in succession questions relating to habitations, alimentation, the causes of accidents, and the means to bo used for providing against them; nuisances arising from noise smells smoke; the questions of ventilation, warming, disinfection, in relation both to town and country life. The second part, of which the arrange- ment is that of an encyclopedia, contains all necessary details as regards the nature ot the operations involved in each branch of iudustrv, and the causes of its unwholesomeness. II. MEDICAL STATISTICS. Boudin.—Treatise on Medical Statistics and Geography, and on Epi- demic Diseases. 2 vols. 8vo. Boudin's comprehensive work is divided into two parts, of which the first treats of physical geography and medical meteorology; the second of man, regarded in a geographical point of view. Under the first head, the influence of season on conceptions, births, marriages, sickness, and deaths, is discussed. It also comprises sections on medical geology, or the influence of the earth's crust on the social relations and diseases of man, medical hydrology, meteorology proper, and climatology. The second part relates to the progress of population, and the mean duration and ex- pectation of life, as modified by local and climatic peculiarities. Gaikdner. — Infantile Death-rates in their bearings on Sanitary and Social Science. Trans. Ass. Soc. Sc., p. 632, i860. The author founds important conclusions on the relation between the death-rate of infants under one year, and the rate of mortality of persons of all ages. From the statistics of mortality of a large num- ber of urban and rural districts, he arrives at the conclusion that those causes which produce a high rate of general mortality have a still greater tendency to augment the death-rate of infants under one year. Thus he finds that in districts in which the general death-rate is 2 per cent., the infantile death-rate is seven and a half times greater; that in districts in which the former is i'6 per cent., the latter is only six and a half times greater ; that in those in which the former is 2-2 per cent., the latter is eight and a half times as great. In most instances in which the infantile death-rate is greater than it should be, the author is disposed to attribute it to the neglect of the family relation or the maternal duty, and, in some districts, to the employment of women in special industries, and the consequent interference with rearing of children. From the statistics of the metropolis Dr. Gairdner derives the alarming result that, while the death-rate of the west-end parishes is far below the average of town districts, the infantile death-rate is enormous ; e. g., the infantile mortality of St. George's, Hanover Square, is actually greater than that of Stepney. Twenty-first Annual Report of the Registrar-General of Births, Marriages, and Deaths, in England. London, 8vo, i860. The report of the Registrar-General contains the usual aggregate of statistical information, in the form of tabular abstracts and summaries, for the year 1858. In discussing the summaries of the " Quarterly Returns," he draws the following inferences relating to the influence of modem479 MEDICAL STATISTICS. improvements in sewerage on the public health in London and other large towns:—"The progress of sanitary measures in London has hitherto resulted in the removal of the impurities from the dwelling-houses into the sewers and the Thames." Thus "the poison is distributed con- veniently along all the lines of road, so as to throw up its vapours into the mouths, throats, and lungs of the people through innumerable gully- holes, which are either untrapped or trapped imperfectly." This arrange- ment the author regards as an apparatus contrived by engineers as if for the very purpose of "passing currents of poisonous airs steadily over.the people of London, with a view to ascertain their exact effects," but thinks that "it is now time that this cruel experiment should cease." He con- siders that the main causes of the insalubrity of London are, in the order of their fatal effect— i, impurities of dwellings ; 2, impurities of streets and gullies ; and 3, impurities of the Thames. In a " Letter to the Eegistrar-General on the Causes of Death in Eng- land," which forms the appendix to the report, that subject is further very fully discussed by Dr. Farr. Sixth Annual Report of the Registrar-General of Births, Deaths, and Marriages in Scotland. Edinburgh, 8vo, 1861. Quarterly Returns of the Marriages, Births, and Deaths registered in the Divisions, Counties, and Districts of England. Nos. 45-48, i860. During the first, or winter quarter, the death-rate of England was slightly above the average, but below the rates of the two previous win- ters ; it was 2*472, as compared with 2*46, the average of the ten pre- ceding winter quarters. During the second quarter the rate of mortality was higher than in any corresponding period of the previous ten years, being 2*228, as compared with 2*195, the average. This is attributed to the ungenial spring season and the clearness of provisions. In the autumn quarter " a reduction of mortality is observable in the town and country districts, but it is by far the greatest in the town districts," in which " the rate of mortality fell from 2*375 *° I-842 per cent. ; in the country and small town districts it fell from 1*759 *° 1 "587." This result is attributed to the low temperature and wet weather, with its consequent better supply of water, purification of sewers, and retardation of putrefaction. During the last three months the death-rate was still low, being 2*024, as com- pared with 2*182, the average. Upon making up the account for the year, the deaths are found to be 422,500, and the annual rate of mortality 2*113, or a little more than 21 in 1000. The average of the preceding ten years is 22, so that one life in every 1000 living was saved. Weekly Tables of the Births, Deaths, and Causes of Death in London during the year i860. The population of Loudon in the middle of the year was estimated to be 2,829,130. During the year 92,825 persons were born, and 61,821 died. The number of deaths per cent, during'the year was 2*193. This may be favorably compared with 2*278, the mean death-rate for the five preceding years, or 2*429, the mean death-rate for the preceding twenty years. The low mortality of the year is specially referred to diarrhoea, the number of deaths from which disease was 1,383, as compared with 3,33 <j the corresponding number for 1859.480 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. Eraser.—On the excessive Infantile Mortality occurring in Cities and large Towns. Trims. Ass. Soc. Sc., p. 648, i860. Wallace. — On some of the Causes of the High Rate of Mortality in Greenock. Trans. Ass. Soc. Sc., p. 607, i860. Easton.—Poverty in relation to Disease. Trans. Ass. Soc. Sc., p. (>y„ i860. Black.—Statistical Notes of Newhaven and its Fishing Population. Trans. Ass. Soc. Sc., p. 716, i860. Annual Report on the Medical Administration, Hygiene, Hospitals, and Sanitary Condition of the Freetown Frankfort for the year 1857. Edited, with the co-operation of the Medical Staff, by the Medical Association. Frankfort, 1859. Canst., vol. vii, p. 45. This work is said by the reporter, Dr. Birkmeyer, to be 60 rich in well- worked material as to be a model. The first part is devoted to the topography of the town, and is divided into four sections, which treat severally of the special topography, soil, meteorology, and the progress and present state of the population, the authors being, in the same order, Dr. Lorey, Otto Volger, Wallach, and Varrentrapp. The second part consists of a general report by the senior stadt-physikus, and special papers on the statistics of mortality, on the deadhouses, on the innumer- able hospitals and similar institutions of Frankfort, on the functions of the district medical officers for the poor. It concludes with the reports of the medical and scientific societies of Frankfort. Chadwick, C.B.—Address on Public Health. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 574, i860. Lankester.—Notes on a recent Sanitary Legislation in the Metropolis. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 666, i860. M'Gowan.—Sanitary Reform; its Value and Limits. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 727, i860. Powers.—On the Diffusion of Sanitary Knowledge. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 713, i860. Annual Reports of the Medical Officers of Health of the Metropolis— for the City of London and for the Parishes of St. Marylebone, St. Pancras, St. James, Islington, Shoreditch, Lambeth, St. Giles, §-c. Quarterly Summaries of the Sickness and Mortality in St. Georges, Hanover Square. Quarterly Reports on the Sanitary Condition of the Whitechapel District. III. DWELLINGS. Pettenkofer.—Air in Dwellings, and Ventilation. Review by Dr. Hoppe in Virch. Arch., vol. xvi, p. 192. Canst., vol. vii, p. 54. Pettenkofer objects to the employment of hot air without due provision for an adequate supply of moisture. He insists on the importance of porosity in the materials employed in the building of houses, and shows that carbonic acid is prevented from accumulating in dwelling-rooms by diffusion through the walls. Pettenkofer considers tbat a per-centage of o-i is the highest that is consistent with wholesomeness, not because a larger quantity would be in itself injurious, but because it would imply481 HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC DWELLINGS. an injurious impregnation of the air with odorous organic matter. Very numerous experiments have led to this result. Pettenkofer has similarly shown that the proportion of carhonic acid actually existing in a closed room is always far less than can be accounted for by the number of indi- viduals inhabiting it, this being owing to the constant exchange which is taking place between the atmosphere inside and outside, an exchange which is the more rapid the greater the difference of temperature. Hennessy.— On the Influence of Climate on the Sanitary Conditions of different quarters of large Towns. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 662, i860. Smith. — On the necessity for a Building Act for large Towns. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 720, i860. Newlands.—On Sanitary Progress in Liverpool. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 729, i860. M'Gill.—On the Sanita?y Condition of the lower localities of the City of Glasgoio. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 619, i860. Watson.—On the Measures required for improving the low parts of the City (Glasgow). Ibid., p. 624. Rawlinson.—Water-supply to Towns. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 675, i860. Garrick.—Drainage of Glasgow. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 679, i860. Macleod.—Sanitaria for the Sick Poor of Glasgoio. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 883, i860. Druitt.—Is the Eradication of Domestic Pestilence possible 1 Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 693, i860. Baring.—Hoiv the Dwellings of Operatives are to be arranged and kept Healthy. (Prize Essay.) Basle, i860, pp. 166. Becker.—On the same subject. (Prize Essay.) Basle, pp. 64. Spring.—On the Shortening of the Duration of Life among the Working- classes of England, consequent on Unhealthy Dwellings. Bayer Artz. Intell. Bltt., i860, No. 15. Pappenheim.—On Metallic Pipes, and their comparative relations to Drinking-water. Mon. f. San. Pol., vol. i, p. 381. Spencer.—Report on Gas Leakage. Chem. News, July 14th. Moller.—On the Methods of Discovering Moisture in Buildings. Mon. Schr. f. San., vol. i, pp. 337, 354. IV. HOSPITALS and public buildings. Esse {Medical Director of the Charite Hospital at Berlin) .—Hospitals, their Regulation and Administration. With eight lithographic plates. Berlin, 1857, pp. 304. The author divides his material into two sections, of which the one treats of the arrangement (Einrichtung), the other of the administration of hospitals. Under the first head he includes the question of construction. He considers that large buildings are very far from being desirable, and every large general hospital ought to consist of several buildings, of not more than two stories, separated from each other by sufficient intervals, but all communicating with a central building devoted to the purposes of general administration and economy. Each separate building should be assigned 31REPORT ON l'UBLIC HEALTH. 18;> to a category of diseases, which the author proposes to divide for the purposes of arrangement of patients into external, internal, syphilitic, contagious, and obstetric. As regards drainage, he recommends stoneware pipes of from eight to ten inches, or mason work drains of eight inches wide, and twelve to fifteen inches high. As regards water-supply, he considers that fifteen cuhic feet per day per patient—the quantity supplied in theCharite Hospital—is necessary for the purpose of haths, ward-sinks, and water- closets. For the wards he strongly recommends "patent flooring, the deals of which are glued together, and spread over with linseed-oil varnish, mixed with a little yellow ochre" (Goldochre). On the matters of heating and ventilation the work contains nothing new. Oppert.—The Arrangement of Hospitals; Studies conducted in the course of a scientific journey. With nineteen illustrations in copper and wood. Berlin, 1859. This work treats only of some of the more important questions relating to the management of hospitals, and especially to those of ventilation. The author thinks that each ward ought to contain ahout thirty patients, each being supplied with 1200 cubic feet of air-space, a quantity which is, however, insufficient, unless means of ventilation are also in operation. Besides the large wards, he recommends that there should be small ones, containing two to seven patients. He declares in favour of the mechanical system of ventilation {ventilation « pulsion, or plenum ven- tilation), as superior in several respects to the aspiration system. The grounds of preference are—(1) that the quantity of air delivered can be modified according to the circumstances; (2) that the ventilation is not affected by season, and can be maintained in activity in summer as well as in winter, whereas in the method by aspiration the ventilation almost ceases in summer. The proper supply of air per hour per patient he estimates at forty cubic meters. Vernois.—Note on the new Warming and Ventilating Apparatus at the Hopital Necker. Ann. d'Hyg. Canst., vol. vii, p. 54. The male side of the Hopital Necker at Paris is ventilated on the plan most approved of by Pettenkofer, that of Dr. v. Hecke. A two-horse power steam-engine in the basement propels the air into three heating chambers, from which the wards and corridors are supplied. From the official report of Grassi it appears that the apparatus works economically, as compared with other methods, only 7*16 kilogr. of coal being re- quired to yield 17,600 cubic meters of air; so that, it is found that the warming and ventilation of the Necker Hospital costs no more than the heating alone in the other hospitals, and that it presents the additional advantage of providing sufficient hot water, not only for the wards, but for baths for the out-patients. Bohm.—On the Ventilation Question, with special relation to Hosjntals. Z. d. Gesellsch. d. A. z. Wien, pp. 18, 26, 28. Canst., vol. vii, p. 54. Bohm criticises in succession the three methods of veutilation—the so-called natural method, that by aspiration, absurdly called the vacuum system, and that by pulsion (plenum system). He points out the im- possibility, in many instances, of providing sufficiently for ventilation without the continuous employment of artificial means; and, from the483 DISINFECTION. comparison of the two opposite methods, pronounces in favour of that by aspiration ; the main disadvantages of the pulsion system being that the necessary machinery requires constant supervision and attention that a system of heating specially adapted to the ventilation is required, while its principal merit consists in the facility with which the supply of air can be varied and controlled according to the requirement. Forbes.—On Ventilation and Heating. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 728, Mow.—On the Employment of the Heat developed by Lighting Appa- ratus for Ventilation. Compt. Rend., vol. li, p. 109. Walters.—On Experiments tried in England on the Employment of the Heat developed by Lighting Apparatus for Ventilation. Compt. Bend., vol. li, p. 302. Haller.—Ventilation and Wanning of Nurseries and Sick-rooms—on the Principles of Prof . Meissner. Second edition, Vienna, 8vo, pp. 30. Adshead— On Hospitals and Convalescents. Trans. Assoc. Soc. Sc., p. 726, i860. V. Allt VITIATED BY I7ECAL EMANATIONS; DISINFECTION. McWilliam.—Report on the Health of the Waterguard and Waterside Officers of H. M.'s Customs during 18$9. After referring to the unusual prevalence of diarrhoea throughout the metropolis during the hot season of 1859, the author adduces facts and details showing that, although the number of cases that occurred among the officers of the customs was in excess of the previous year, it was not above the average of the four preceding years ; and that, although cholera was imported into the Thames from the continent by at least three vessels in the course of the summer, the disease in no case spread. He therefore infers that " the river is neither capable of generating cholera, nor of forming a soil fit for the germination of the seeds of that disorder when introduced into it." In none of these instances mentioned was quarantine resorted to, or intercourse with the shore or other ships prevented. The author shows that stench from the river first became observable after a heavy fall of rain, "which washed an immense quantity of sewage into the river at the time most favorable for its detention there, viz., when the tide had flowed about a third ;" that from that time it increased as the temperature rose. From the high temperature which the atmosphere and the river attained during July and August, and the resulting rapid evapo- ration, as well as from the defective rainfall during the latter months of 1858, the quantity of fresh water diminished extremely ; and, as a conse- quence, the tidal wave advanced much beyond its usual limit in the river, so that the river was as salt at London Bridge as it usually is at Greenwich. As the proportion of tidal water to fresh water increased or diminished, the stench exhibited corresponding variations, it being found that it was diminished by whatever causes tended to increase the fresh water or give force to the ebb flow. With the fall of the temperature which took place towards the end of August, the evil began steadily to abate. Barnes.—Report of the Vestry of the Parish of St. Leonard's, Shoreditch. " The Thames Theory of Disease."RBPOET ON PUBLIC HEALTH. IM Tlie author concludes, from his experience as physician to the Dread- nought Hospital, and as officer of health, that the theory that the Thames emanations form the source of disease is without foundation. He refers particularly to the fact that, during the hot weather of 1859, tMe public health was improving ; and that, although cholera was three several times imported in a virulent form from Hamburgh, and the persons affected admitted into the Dreadnought during the heat of July, when the river was extremely offensive, it spread no further. He insists, in emphatic language, on the injurious use which has been made of this fallacy, as a justification for the enormous cost and inconvenience of the main drainage scheme. Thomson.—Fourth Annual Report on the Health of the Parish of St. Marylebone, for 1859. In this report the same views as regards the absence of danger to the public health arising from the contamination of the Thames by sewage. Chevallier.—On the possibility of Collecting Fcecal Matters, the Drain- age therefrom {eaux vannes), and the Urine of Paris. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xiv, p. 97. M. Chevallier, in this paper, describes a method invented by Lesage Gotz, of Mulhouse. It consists in introducing and plunging into the cesspool a flexible hose, which is connected with a suction-pump worked by two men. By this means the contents of the cesspool are transferred into a butt containing about five hundred gallons. The gases which are disengaged in the operation are conducted by means of a tube furnished with diaphragms of wire gauze, for the purpose of preventing their explo- sion in the interior of the apparatus, into a small furnace of cast iron, where they are completely burnt by passing over burning charcoal. By this means a cesspool containing five hundred gallons can be emptied in twenty minutes, without the slightest annoyance either to the workmen or to the inhabitants. This method is now in successful operation in the towns of Cambrai, Lille, Mulhouse, St. Quentin, Valenciennes, and others. From the butt the faecal liquids are transferred into close canal boats con- structed for the purpose, which are minutely described by the author, in which they are conveyed to different parts of the country. The price actually realised is from two to three francs a cubic metre. Report of MM. Michat, Dubois, and Boudet, to the Conseil de Salubrite du Dep. de la Seine, on the Transformation of Fcecal Matters into Manure. In the vast depositories of fsecal matter at Paris, called " voiries," consist partly of solid matters, partly of "eaux vannes," the former constituting about 16 per cent, of the whole. It is proposed, after first disinfecting it with pyrolignite of iron, to mix the solid matter with plaster, in such quantity as to give it sufficient solidity to render it possible to dry it rapidly. This is again mixed with additional quantities of foecal matter, and the process repeated four times. The final dried product contains, according to analysis, 2*05 percent, of nitrogen. The "eaux vannes" are to be mixed with an equal volume of lime-water and allowed to stand. A deposit soon forms, which contains 177 per cent, of nitrogen and y+S of phosphoric acid.DISINFECTION. 485 At the close of their report, after giving a summary of the inquiries which have been made in London, the authors give an account of the method employed in Cologne, for preventing the escape of foul air from the sewers. It consists in filling up the shafts of the gully-grates with shavings impregnated with disinfectant fluids. Of these the lowest are impregnated with dilute sulphuric acid to absorb the ammonia; above these are arranged shavings steeped in milk of lime ; and at the top, car- bonate of lead mixed with four times its weight of milk of lime. Blyth.—An Improvement in the Manufacture of a Manure from Sewage- waters and other fluids containing Ammonia or Nitrogenous Mat- ter. Chem. News, Dec. ist, 1859. When superphosphate of magnesia is added to sewage containing ammonia, triple phosphate of magnesia_and ammonia is precipitated. The precipitate carries with it all the insoluble and nitrogenous matters held in suspension. The supernatant liquor is deodorized, and may be ex- posed to air without creating a nuisance. The great advantage which this process has over most others is that the matter added to the sewage is in itself a valuable manure. Datjbeny.—A Lecture on Sewage, delivered at Oxford. Chem. News, March 24. On the Influence of Sewer-air on Man. Ugeskrift for Laeger, Bd. xxviii, p. 435. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 177. A ground-labourer, uet. 40, after working for about three hours in a sewer, was obliged to leave off on account of the horribly stinking atmosphere. Next morning, after a sleepless night, he resumed his em- ployment, but was at once obliged to discontinue and go home to bed. At first he suffered from languor, anorexia, and sleeplessness, with slight nocturnal delirium. There was no fever and thirst, and the tongue was clean. Pulse 80—90 ; bowels confined. After these symptoms had con- tinued four days, an icteric tinge of the sclerotics, of the face and general surface, became perceptible. This did not become intense, and there was 110 corresponding alteration of the urine or excrements. On the eighth day there was hremorrhage from the nares and pharynx. Extreme prostration followed, but was very promptly succeeded by an improvement in all the symptoms, which led to convalescence. The treatment consisted in fresh air, support, and stimulants. Reil.—The various Syste7>is relating to the Arrangement of Privies. Casper, vol. xv, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 58. Reil considers the subject under the heads of ventilation, water, supply, and disinfection. Under the last head he discusses the merits of char- coal, earthy matters, chlorine, lime, pyroligneous acid, carbonic acid, and metallic salts. He gives the preference, on the ground of economy, to sulphate of iron. Siebek.—On the Sanitary Considerations relating to the Arrangements of Privies, with special reference to Berlin. Casper, vol. xv, part 2. Canst., vii, p. 58. In Berlin there are two kinds of closets, those furnished with moveable boxes, and ordinary privies. Waterclosets have been recently introduced, but are strongly condemned by the author, who is of opinion that theREPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 486 moveable boxes fulfil all hygienic requirements. These boxes are airtight. Every night the full one is removed and conveyed to a place of deposit outside of the town, where it is emptied, washed, and dried, and after three days again used. The author insists on the prohibition of cesspools in new houses, and their abolition in five years in old ones. Hofmann and Frankland.—Report on a Communication from Dr. Letheby, ivith reference to the quantity of Arsenic in Perchloride of Iron. Chem. News, Aug. nth. In answer to a letter of Dr. Letheby, pointing out the "frightful dan- ger" of using Dale's perchloride of iron, from its containing "not less than 238 grains of chloride of arsenic in the gallon," a quantity "suffi- cient to poison about forty persons," the authors show that its use in the proportion they recommend would imply a quantity of arseniate of iron in the deposit from the sewage so deodorized amounting only to one part in 3000, and therefore quite insufficient to act injuriously. Letheby.—On the Empoisonment of the Thames with Perchloride of Iron. Chem. News, Aug. 18th. A rejoinder to the above report. Versmann and Rogers.—On the Presence and Effect of Arsenic in Dale's Patent Magnetic Muriate of Iron. Chem. News, September 8th. ' The authors show that the arsenic introduced into the river in the use of the muriate of iron must necessarily assume an insoluble form, and therefore become a constituent, not of the water, but of the mud. They give further chemical proof of the infinitesimal minuteness of the contamination. Angus Smith.—Disinfection of the Sewage at Carlisle. Lancet, Oct. 13, p. 365. Smith gives an account of the employment of M'Dougall's disinfectant at Carlisle. He states that the whole sewage of Carlisle is rendered in- offensive, and at the same time profitably available for the purposes of agriculture, at a daily cost for the material used of 5«. 3c?. He con- cludes from the results of this experiment that the problem of the utilisa- tion of sewage is solved. L'Hote.—Comparative Analyses of the "Eaux vannes" and of the " Poudrette" from the Voiries of Paris. Ann. de Ch. et de Ph., vol. lx, p. 199. Comparative analyses of the " poudrette" resulting from the slow evaporation of the contents of the voiries at Bondy during twelve years, and the "poudrette" obtained by rapid evaporation of the liquors (eaux vannes) by a process analogous to that employed in the evaporation of saline waters of a feeble density, the substance being deposited by incrustation. This substance yields 65 per cent, of organic matters containing nitrogen, and 074 of ammonia. The poudrette yields only 47 per cent, of the former, and 0 85 of the latter. Demeaux.—On the Preparation of the Disinfecting Charpie. L'Unioi Med., 1859, p. 88. Velpeau.—Report on the Disinfecting Powder of MM. Come and Demeaux. Gaz. de Paris, i860, No. 7.487 OCCUPATION. M. Velpeau, in his report to the Academy of Sciences on the disin- fecting powder of MM. Corne and Demeaux, which consists of 100 parts of gypsum and three parts of coal-tar, pronounces favorably as regards its employment as a deodorant, and as a means of preventing the attacks of insects in dissecting-rooms, its principal inconvenience being its bitumi- nous smell. M. Velpeau's report refers principally to the employment of the powder in surgical practice, in which its advantages are represented to be counterbalanced by its drawbacks. Renault.—Bull, de l'Acad., xxiv, No. 20, p. 1132. M. Renault's conclusions from experiments on putrid animal matters at Alfort are as follows:—Coal-tar, oil of turpentine, creasote, and or- dinary tar, are all more or less disinfectant. Their power is increased by mixing them with gypsum. The mixture of common tar with gypsum is superior to that of coal-tar. Vigla.—Coal-tar employed as a Disinfectant. Jour, de Pharrn., Oct., 1859, and Jan., i860. This paper relates to the surgical use of coal-tar as a disinfectant almost exclusively. The author's conclusions are unfavorable to the claims of MM. Corne and Demeaux. Kuchenmeister.—On Disinfectants. Spirol, and its Therapeutic Appli- cations. Deut. Klin., No. xiii. Schmidt, vol. 106, p. 287. Under the name of spirol, Kuchenmeister describes phenic or carbolic acid as a colourless, crystalline body, which fuses at 340 Cent., and boils at 187°, and is obtained from oil of coal-tar as well as by the distil- lation of salicine (salicylic acid ? Ed.) with lime. Kuchenmeister has applied the carbolic acid with the most satisfactory results, both in medi- cal and surgical practice and as a means of arresting putrefaction and preventing the development of fungi. VoiGT.—On the emptying of Latrines in large Towns from the point of view of Sanitary Police and Economics. Henke, vol. xli, p. 70. Abegg.—On the Purification of the Air in Hospitals. Casper, vol. xvii, p. 282. Finkelnburg.—On the New Method of removing the Refuse Materials of great Towns, with special reference to the Hydropneumatic Method of emptying employed in Turin and Milan. Casper, vol. xviii, p. 107. Pierre.— On the presence of Butyric Acid in certain Ciders and in Marsh Water, and on the inconvenience and dangers which may result therefrom. On the presence of this Acid in Earth, in the Soak- age of Dunghills, and in rotten Beetroot. Caen, 8vo, pp. 16. Lamont; Pettenkofer.—Observations on the Fluctuates of Surface- water, and the Infection of the Air arising therefrom. Bayer. Arztl. Intell. Bltt., i860, Nos. 9, 14, 15. VI. OCCUPATION. Heise.—Diseases of Workmen employed in Brickfields. Casper, vol. xvii, part 2. The author analyses minutely the injurious effects exerted on the work-Ki'U'OUT O.N PUBLIC HEALTH. ■188 men employed, by the successive processes in the manufacture of bricks. As, however, the mode of brickmaking in Germany differs from that em- ployed in this country, and the extrinsic conditions to which the work- men are subject are also different, tbe results of the author are of less value. The practical improvements recommended consist in the limita- tion by law of the hours of labour and of the age of those employed, and of improvements in the general sanitary conditions to which they are subject. Blumlein.—Velvet and Sil/c Weaving, in relation to their Influence on the Body and Mind of the Weaver. Casper, vol. xv, part 2. Canst., vol. vii, p. 66. This paper comprises the results of the author's experience of thirty years of practice in a district of 250,000 persons, of whom one fifth were of the occupation in question. Its injurious influence on the health is attributable—1, to the exposure of the workman to pulverulent matter; 2, to the constrained position of the weaver, especially in velvet work, and the consequent increased pressure on the abdominal organs, which, the author believes, tends to the production of " chronic inflammations " and organic disease. The frequency of mental derangement terminating in melancholy he regards as an ulterior result of the same causes. 3. To the minuteness of the work and the incessant din of the loom, which result in diseases of the eyes and ears; 4, to the mode of life of the weaver and the unwholesomeness of his dwellings and workshops. To this last group of causes the author attributes very great importance. Lefevre.—On the Causes of the Dry Colic observed on board Ships of Wur, especially in the Equatorial Regions, and on the means of preventing their development. Paris, i860. Canst., vol. vii, p. 71. A disease has prevailed of late years in the French navy, under the name of " dry colic," which has been the subject of much discussion, in relation to the question of its saturnine origin. In its symptoms it is not distinguishable from lead colic, and it is associated with the same nervous phenomena—paralysis of the extensors of the upper limbs, perversions of sensibility, neuralgic pains, and convulsions. The slate-coloured line along the edges of the gums is also observed. Against the opinion of Chevallier, that this disease is dependent on lead-poisoning, it is maintained by Dujardin and others that it occurs under conditions which preclude even the possibility of the introduction of lead into the system, and that its course and progress differ materially from that of colica pictonum. Lefevre physician to the fleet at Brest, deals with the whole question in an elaborate work, divided into five sections, of which the first treats of the history of the disease; the second investigates the possible modes of introduction of lead on board ship, such as the cooking and distilling apparatus, the pumps and receptacles for fresh water, &c.; the third com- prises the geographical distribution of tbe affection ; the fourth the in- fluence of meteorological and climatic causes, particularly of miasma, &c.; while the last is devoted to the means of prevention. Peacock.—On French Millstone-makers' Phthisis. Brit, and For. Med.- Chir., Jan., i860. As no stone of sufficient hardness for the grinding of wheat exists in this country, a remarkably obdurate siliceous stone, known as French burr,OCCUPATION. L89 is imported from France for this purpose. The blocks of this material are brought over in the rough state and shaped in this country, particu- larly in London, Liverpool, and other large towns, into such forms as to be fitted and cemented together into millstones, after which they still require finishing. The workmen engaged in these processes are constantly exposed to clouds of siliceous dust and fragments of grit. The author thinks that about fifty persons are employed in the trade in London, and was told by an intelligent foreman that he had known at least twenty persons die of chest affections. He details other facts iu illustration of its injurious character. Two fatal cases are recorded, of which the one affords a characteristic example of tubercular phthisis, the other of chronic bronchitis, with consequent tuberculization. In the latter instance por- tions of the indurated lung-tissue, on being ignited, left a white ash, of which the part insoluble in hydrochloric acid was found to consist of small, angular, transparent granules, exactly resembling the finer portions of the siliceous dust collected from one of the workshops, from which fact the author infers that the dust is extensively inhaled, and " tends in persons of healthy constitution to the production of chronic bronchitis and asthma, and in those inheriting a constitutional predisposition to .phthisis to the development of tubercle." As prophylactic measures, Dr. Peacock recommends that only men who have attained to maturity should be allowed to enter the trade ; that exposure to cold, indulgence in spirituous liquors, and irregular modes of life, should be specially avoided, and the workshops should be well ventilated ; that the stone should be, if possible, worked in a wet state; and lastly, that the men should wear respirators whenever exposed to the dust. Putegnat.—Diseases of the Glasseutters of Baccarat. Bulletin de l'Acad. de Med., vol. xxv, p. 31. The workers in glass and crystal are all liable to an affection of the gums, attended with the loss of the teeth and a peculiarly offensive odour, as well as to phthisis, in frightful proportions. The former affection attacks 95 in every 100 workmen, generally commencing after being three months at the occupation. Soon the gums become soft and spongy, the teeth rapidly decay and break off at the alveoli, without either pain or bleeding. The liability of both diseases M. Putegnat attributes rather to the extreme humidity and bad ventilation of the workshops than to the inspiration of dust. Schirmer— Diseases of the Miners of Grilneberg (Silesia). Ann. d'Hyg. In the coal-mines of Griineberg coal is, for the most part, won in a pulverulent condition, on which account the workmen are more subject to its mechanical agency. From the statements of Schirmer it appears that the condition of the miner in Germany contrasts strongly with the expe- rience of this country. The mines are very ill ventilated, the air is vitiated by rotten timbers, and the men are obliged to ascend and descend by ladders. Their pay is small, their dwellings wretched hovels, their diet miserable, rarely comprising meat. Owing, however, to the strict prohi- bition of all spirituous liquors, they are healthy. The principal diseases are catarrh and rheumatism.REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 490 Hermann.—Diseases of Workmen in the Quicksilver Mines of Idria Wiener. Med. Wochensch., 1858, Nos. 40—43. The works at Idria are of three kinds :—1. Mining. 2. Preparation of metallic mercury. 3. Preparation of cinnabar. <;i<5 men are employed, 448 of whom at a time are employed in mining; all the men are engaged in turn at the other works. In 1856, 122 cases of disease occurred" viz., 27 of neuralgia, 14 of mercurial articular pains, 6 of mercurial tremors,' 16 of salivation, 2 of caries. By far the greater number of cases of merl curial disease occur while the men are engaged above ground in the preparation of the mercury. In spite of the unfavorable conditions under which they exist, octogenarians are often met with among those who have been workmen, which the author explains by the fact that very great care is taken of them while employed, and that at the end of ten years they have a right to a pension, &c. Prophylaxis consists in the employment of a respirator, the use of milk and cod-liver oil, the habit of chewing tobacco, and the employment of frequent baths. All the inhabitants of the valley, and even the animals, are liable to be affected with mercurial symptoms. Housselle.—Suffocation in the Gas of Mines. (Superarbitrium of the Royal Commission for Medical Affairs.) Casper, vol. xvi, p. 161. Keckeis.—The Gas Explosion in the Framisha Pit at Padochau. Wien. Med. Woch. Schrft., vol. xxxv, p. 36. Marten.— On the Injuries and Diseases to which Coal-miners are exposed. Casper, vol. xvi, pp. 264—277. Poggiale.—On the Fabrication and Employment of Lucifers. L'Union Med., Jan. n, i860. The author proposes the following improvements, with a view to counteract the dangers incident to the manufacture and use of matches, viz. : the more complete separation and ventilation of the buildings and workshops ; the exclusion of sulphur as an ingredient; the substitution of nitrate of potash for chlorate of potash; the prohibition of the sale or transport of lucifers, otherwise than in strong boxes, &c. Poggiale con- cludes his report as follows :—The vapours of phosphorus disengaged in lucifer manufactories are injurious to the workmen, who are affected by phosphoric necrosis. Inflammable paste of ordinary matches is extremely poisonous, has already given rise to a number of suicides and murders, and is therefore a source of danger to the public. In the manufacture of lucifers, phosphorus in its ordinary state ought therefore to be prohibited. The following pyrogenic substances might be substituted, viz.—1. A paste without phosphorus, consisting of ten parts of dextrine, seventy-five of chlorate of potash, thirty-five of binoxide of lead and of iron pyrites. Matches made of this substance require vigorous friction to inflame them. 2. According to another method, the match is charged with chlorate of potash, and must be rubbed against a surface covered with red or amorphous phosphorus. Kolb.—A contribution to the elucidation of the Injurious Character of certain Occupations. Ztsch. f. Hyg., vol. i, p. 375. Behrend.—On the Influence of Occupation upon Health and Mortality: 1. Engine Drivers and Stokers. 2. Butchers. 3. Vulcanite Work- ers. 4. Coal-miners. Henke, vol. lxxx, part 1.491 FOOD. Keller.—On the Diseases prevailing in the Mirror Factories of Bohemia. Wien. Med. Wchnschr., No. 38. Paasch.—The Berlin Tailors' Workshops, and the great Mortality among them by Consumption. Pr. Ver. Ztg., N. F., vol. iii, p. 20. V1T. IMPRISONMENT. Van den Busch.—On the Physical and Psychical Influence of the Cellular System on the Prisoners at Christiania. Henke, part 1. From the experience of the prison at Christiania, the conclusion was unavoidable that the system of seclusion could not be continued -without exercising the most prejudicial influence on the corporal and mental con- dition of the prisoners. Unnatural perversion of the temper and dis- position, often accompanied with an excitement of the emotions and passions, sometimes with marked depression, were constantly observed, and suicidal attempts were frequent. The author concludes that isolation is a most valuable and necessary element of prison discipline whenever the period of detention is short, but, in the opposite case, is inapplicable. Erlenmeyer.—Does Imprisonment exercise a distinctly Injurious In- fluence on the Mind, and is this influence attributable to isolation ? Corr. blatt d. d. Ges. f. Psychiatrie, No. 3. Erlenmeyer maintains that, in most cases prisoners who become insane during their detention had exhibited more or less distinct indications of mental disturbance during their previous life. His conclusions, however, are equally decided as regards the unfavorable influence of solitary con- finement in rapidly developing, if not in originating, mental disease. Till. EDUCATION. Schraube.—Attention to Health in Schools; School-education from the Forum of Hygiene and Sanitary Police. Henke, vol. Ixxix, p. 244. Schreber.— On Children's Games, in their physical and mental aspect, and the necessity of regarding them in the light of Education. Jahrbuch f. Kinderheilk., vol. iii, p. 247. IX. FOOD. Dauglish.—On a new system of Bread Manufacture. Chemical News, May 5th, i860. Dr. Dauglish's process essentially consists in preparing dough in an atmosphere of carbonic-acid gas, the tension of which is equal to several times that of the external air, in such a manner as to yield, independently of fermentation, a bulky, elastic mass, capable of being baked into light, spongy bread. The advantages which the author claims are the following • it reduces the time necessary for the production of the dough from eight or twelve hours to less than thirty minutes, thus doing away with much of the unwholesome character of the bakers' occupation ; and secondly, it renders possible the production of palatable bread, from inferior or de- teriorated flour without the use of alum.492 REPORT ON PUBLIC HKALT1I. Delarije.—Is the addition to Wheat-flour of a small proportion of Bean* det rimentul ? L' Union Mdd., 18*59, No. 14. A dealer was convicted in a penalty of twenty-five francs, of selling wheat-flour ndulterated with beans. On this occasion it was shown in evidence by M. Uelarue that the addition of 2 percent, of bean-meal to flour improves the quality of the bread, as such flour is capable of ab- sorbing 2 or 3 per cent, more water than when unadulterated. When added in the proportion of 4 or 5 per cent, it communicates a dark colour and disagreeable smell and taste. In larger proportions it prevents panification altogether. Carson.—On a New Method0/ Slaughtering Cattle. Lancet, Sept. 29th, P-3I5- Mr. Carson's method consists in making an incision on each side into the thorax, between the fifth and sixth ribs, so as to allow of the free entrance of air. Death takes place immediately, with very little loss of blood, and the meat obtained is superior in tenderness, flavour and juici- ness, to that killed by the ordinary mode. Gamgee.—Unwholesome Meat. Lancet, Dec. 15th, p. 595. The author draws attention to the frequent sale for food of the flesh of diseased animals, and the necessity of employing educated inspectors. Alleged Adulteration of Pepper. Pharmac, April, p. 534. Information was laid against Messrs. Wright, Crossley & Co., on the 16th of March, at the Liverpool Police Court, under the 59th George III, 53, for having adulterated their pepper with mustard-husks. Various chemists gave evidence of the adulteration, which were met by the con- trary testimony of Dr. Inman and others. Other informations against retail dealers were heard, April 17th, at Prescot, against certain retail dealers, for the same offence, the pepper having been purchased from the firm above mentioned. Similar evidence was repeated and confirmed by Mr. Phillips, Prof. Archer, Dr. Edwards, and others. Phillips.—Report on the Excise Laboratory ; from the Report of the Commissioners of Inland Revenue. Cliem. News, Sept. 15th. This report contains important information on every kind of food adulteration. During the year 1859, 9631 samples of food were analysed. Adrian.—On Milk, in relation to its Sale at Paris. Modes of preserving it, adulterations which it undergoes, and means of counteracting them. Paris, Svo, pp. 23. Minchin.—Means of determining the Quality of Milk. Chem. News, Sept. 1st. Dankworth.—On the Testing of Milk. Arch. d. Pharm., vol. 105, p. 257. Schmidt, vol. 105, p. 398. Pfaff.—Research on the Falsification of Beer, and suggestions for a sanitary supervision of Beer. Heuke, vol. xl, pp. 60-9. Guyot.—On Testing Wine. (Bull, agricole ;) Rev. de Ther. M^d.-chir., vol. xxvii, p. 19. Wenke.—Beer, and its Adulterations. Weimar, Svo, pp. 71.EPIDEMIC AND ENDEMIC DISEASES. 493 X. COSMETICS. Chevallier.—On Cosmetics: their Composition, and their Dangers in relation to Health. Ann. d'Hyg., Vol. xiii, p. 89. On White Cos- metics. Ibirl., p. 342. These papers were occasioned by the trial and conviction in Paris of a perfumer, who supplied cosmetics to the principal theatres. The proceed- ings in question related to the use of carbonate of lead, under the names of silver white, alabaster white, &c, which it appears are used by dramatic artists very generally for the purpose of increasing the brilliancy of the complexion. The greater part of the paper is devoted to this subject. It includes a series of detailed cases, all of members of the dramatic pro- fession, in which the symptoms of saturnine intoxication presented them- selves in great variety. These symptoms were for the most part neurotic, consisting of impaired sight, dyspepsia, constipation, and colic, accom- panied with general loss of health. There was always emaciation, and the general aspect was peculiar; the expression assumed a character of sadness, and the skin not only lost its freshness, and became dry and scurfy, but often assumed a discoloration which lasted some time when exposed to air containing sulphuretted hydrogen. The silver white answers its purpose so much better than any of its substitutes—viz., sub- nitrate of bismuth, oxide of zinc, or French chalk—that actresses persist in using it, although aware of its dangers. Chevallier proposes a new cosmetic, consisting of equal parts of oxide of zinc and talc, which he finds to yield a cosmetic of great brilliancy. The rest of the paper is devoted to other cosmetic preparations. He criticises in succession denti- frices, depilatories, emulsions, pomades, powders, &c. XI. EPIDEMIC AND ENDEMIC DISEASES. Greenhow.—On Diphtheria. London, i860. The first three chapters are devoted to the history of epidemics of diphtheria from the sixteenth century to the present time, from which it is shown that although diphtheria as an epidemic disease is new to the present generation of medical practitioners, it was well known, and has been accurately described under other names, by several of the older physicians. In the third chapter the author shows that, although diph- theria has generally appeared as a wide-spread epidemic, it sometimes occurs in a sporadic form, and at others has been so limited in its extent, or has adhered so tenaciously to particular places, as to resemble rather an endemic than an epidemic disease. In the fourth chapter, which is devoted to the resemblances and differences which exist between diph- theria and scarlatina, numerous instances are related in which the one disease was followed by the other, and in which several attacks of the former followed each other at long intervals in the same individual In the third chapter the human and brutal diseases which at various times and places have been observed to be coincident with diphtheria are de- scribed, and the relation of local and personal causes to the epidemic are considered, fhe author states that his inquiries and personal observation have entirely failed to connect its occurrence with the defective construeREPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 494- tion of houses, or with uiiclennliness of dwelling, imperfect drainage, or any other cause of offensive effluvia. He refers to, and confirms, the frequent experience of practitioners, that the worst cases have occurred among their most wealthy patients. He regards dampness as an auxiliary, but not as a principal cause of diphtheria. As regards its communica- bility Dr. Greenhow has seen no facts which indicate that it is contagious by actual contact. He admits that the disease is communicable by direct transmission from the sick to the healthy, but not by fomites. GaEEN&oy.--Diphtheija in Essex, Suffolk, Derbyshire, Gloucestershire, Hampshire, Lincolnshire, Warwickshire, Worcestershire, Stafford- shire, Cheshire, and Norfolk. Report of the Medical Officer of Health to the Privy Council, for 1859, p. 167. This report is the result of journeys, undertaken by order of the Privy Council, to various parts of England in which diphtheria has been epi- demic, for the purpose of making inquiry regarding the symptoms, causes, and mode of diffusion of the disease. The paper deals entirely in facts and observations, and gives no general conclusions. Sanderson.—Diphtheria in Lincolnshire, Staffordshire, Northampton- shire, Kent, Devonshire, and Cornwall. Ibid., p. 237. A report of the same nature as the above. As regards the causes and mode of diffusion of diphtheria, the author arrives at the following con- clusions:—That it exhibits no preference for low-lying or damp dis- tricts as compared with those which are dry and airy, and that in the counties of Lincolnshire and Kent those villages which are situated on the marshes were remarkably exempt from its invasion ; that there is no reason to suppose that diphtheria is more prevalent in localities where the atmosphere is contaminated by putrid emanations, than in those which are free from this condition ; that poverty appears to exercise no predisposing influence to diphtheria; that the liability to diphtheria is greater in children above one year than in infancy or adult life ; that when diphtheria and scarlatina prevailed in the same district, it very fre- quently happened that those who had previously had scarlatina were attacked by diphtheria, and vice versa; that the one disease did not pre- dispose to the other, or the contrary, but that in children suffering from scarlatina the local affection often assumed during its progress the diph- theritic character; that in many districts diphtheria prevailed fatally in the absence of scarlatina; that as regards personal communication, when an individual suffering from diphtheria was introduced into a locality in which no cases had before occurred, the disease frequently extended to those residing under the same roof, but rarely to neighbouring households, but that there was no instance in which it could be concluded that the disease was directly transmitted from the sick to those in health, indepen- dently of its epidemic prevalence in the locality; that the circumstances of the first appearance of diphtheria in a new locality were often such as to preclude even the possibility of personal communication. Gull.—Diphtheria in the Metropolis. Ibid., p. 297. With reference to the origin of outbreaks of diphtheria in localities in which it did not before exist, Dr. Gull did not meet with any instance in which it was attributable to personal communication, but when495 EPIDEMIC AND ENDEMIC DISEASES. diphtheria occurred where there were many children the disease affected several. "An exposed locality is as liable to diphtheria, and perhaps more liable, than sheltered spots." "In only two instances could the malady be attributed to improper drainage or ventilation," and in those cases in which the malady came on in the course of other affections Dr. Gull "could discover no local conditions which determined it." Greenhow.—On the Prevalence and Causes of Diarrhoea at Coventry, Birmingham, Wolverhampton, Dudley, Merthyr Tydfil, Nottingham, Leeds and Manchester, with Chorlton and Salford. Ibid., p. 65. The very extended inquiry, of which this paper contains the results, was undertaken in pursuance of the provisions of the Public Health Act, 1859. It had for its object the investigation of the causes of the extra- ordinary prevalence of fatal diarrhoeal diseases in the localities named, as well as of the general increase of diarrhoea during the last twenty years. The results obtained were as follows:—1. The influence of epidemic epochs has been most marked, and the years in which diarrhoea has occurred in an epidemic form have been nearly the same, in all the districts, but the intensity has varied in the several places. 2. The larger number of deaths have occurred in the months of August, September, and October. 3. A very large proportion (four fifths in most of the districts) have been those of children below the age of five years. This fact is attributed (but not exclusively) to " the mismanagement of infants, arising from the employment of the mothers in factory labour." 4. " The excess of mortality has been in all places coincident with one or other of two definite local circumstances—a. The tainting of the atmosphere with the products of organic decomposition, especially of human excrement. b. The habitual drinking of impure water. The former of these causes is the most prevalent. Report on the Epidemic Yelloio Fever at Lisbon, in 1857. Published by the Extraordinary Council of Public Health. Folio, pp. 251. Review in Brit, and For. Rev., October, 1860. The epidemic appeared in Lisbon in August, and culminated on the 20th of October, after which it gradually, but not uninterruptedly, declined. " It travelled by slow and successive steps from one street to another, and even from house to house, according to their proximity." It was most destructive in the low, central, and crowded parts of the city, while the "west end" was almost exempt. Graxelli.—Record of Medico-political Facts and Principles on Cholera Morbus. Padua, 8vo, 1859. MlLROY. Report of the Proceedings of the Committee on Quarantine. Trans. Ass. Soc. Sc., 1860, p. 697. Ritter.—On the Ways and Means of Protection against Cholera, according to the most recent observations. N. dent. Zeitsch. vol. xiii. part 2. Hillter.—Fourth Annual Report on the Sanitary Condition of St. Pancras, for 1859. This report contains important returns, showing the degree to which the practice of vaccination was neglected in the metropolis previously to theRKl'OKT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. lot; outbreak of smallpox .it the close of 1859. In the schools of St. Pancras, which were inspected by the author with a view to the prevention of smallpox, containing 8324 children, 456 were found to be without marks of vaccination, and 1218 had but indistinct indications. The author also describes the prophylactic measures adopted by the officers of health in combination throughout the metropolis, and especially those directed to the promotion of vaccination, viz. :—1. The compilation of lists of children not appearing as vaccinated on the registers of births, followed by personal visitation of all such children. 2. Medical inspection of all public schools, and of private schools when permission could be obtained. 3. Inquiries made by the sanitary inspectors, in the course of their rotatory domiciliary visitation, as to the vaccination of the children inhabiting the houses inspected. In St. Pancras these means were successfully brought to bear on more than 5000 cases of neglect. Berg.—The Protective Power of Vaccination, Henke, vol. xxxix, p. 420. From Berg's tables of the births, population, and mortality of Sweden in the years 1748—1849, and of the special mortality from smallpox and the number of vaccinations, it is shown incontestable that vaccination, although not affording certain protection against smallpox, has deprived the disease of its former desolating power. Vaccination appears to have first become general in the year 1805. After this period the annual mor- tality from smallpox only exceeded 1000 in five years, viz. 1825— (1243), 1833(1145), 1838(1805), 1839(1954), 1850(1007). These were all years in which smallpox prevailed epidemically. Comparing them with epidemic years previous to 1805, we have in 1752 a mortality of 10912, in 1784, 12455, ™ I7^5> 17375' *n 1800, 12058. According to Professor Berg, no observations have been made in Sweden favouring the assumption that scrofula, eruptive fevers, or other diseases, bad increased or become more malignant since the introduction of vaccination. Husband.—On the Method of Preserving Vaccine Lymph. Report of the Medical Officer of Health to the Privy Council, for 1859, p. 20. Dr. Husband describes minutely the method, first introduced by himself, of preserving lymph in a liquid state within uniformly capillary tubes, hermetically sealed at both extremities. Crkly.—On the same subject. Ibid., p. 24. Mr. Ceely visited Edinburgh by direction of the Privy Council, for the purpose of inquiring into the efficacy of Dr. Husband's method, which is generally employed by the profession there, and, indeed, throughout Scotland. He saw perfect results obtained by vaccination with specimens of lymph which had been thus preserved for as many as seven years, and relates other facts which, in his opinion, conclusively establish the advan- tages of the method. Latour.—Comparative Efficacy of Vaccine taken from Arm to Arm, and of Vaccine preserved in Glass. L'Union Med., i860, No. 58.INDEX. Jf.B. References'lo the contents of divisions and sections are printed in italics. The numbers of the pages are arranged in two columns; the second column refers to the titles of works and papers to which reports are attached, the first to those in which the title is alone given. Abdomen, injuries, wounds, <Sfc. . 302 — internal obstructions . . 303 — tumour in (Jones) . . 339 Abegg, purification of air in hospitals 487 Abeille, albuminuria without lesion of kid- neys .... 236 — rigidity of os uteri during parturition 345 Abortifacients (Kletzinsky) . 467 Abortion, remarks on . . 318 — from blow on the belly (Maschka) 429 Abortion, medico-legal questions . 467 Abortion, eases of (Choulant, Friedreich, Heller) .... 468 Abscess in the brain, death from (Lloyd) 273 — do. do. (Paget) 293 — do. from otorrhoea (Hutchinson) 153 — of the eyelids (Jamain) . . 327 of lower jaw, chronic internal (Annandale) 297 — of the larynx (Thin) . . 206 do. ( do. ) . . 300 of the breast (M'Clintock, Nunn) 378 — pulmonary (Traube) . . 235, 215 in mediastinum (Giintner) . 220 — abdominal (Young) . . 223 — in iliac fossa, in children (Bouchut) 222 in liver (Gulland) . . 234 do. (Wagner) . . 189 do. (Traube) . . 235 — do. punctured externally . 234 — of kidney (Chuckerbutty) . 235 do. (Bristowe) . . 237 do. (Basham) . . 238 of prostate gland (Pitman) . 320 — near urethra (Venot) . . 315 Absorbents ... 95 Absorption, mechanism of (Lambl) 130 — and assimilation of fatty oils (Jeanncl) 130 Abt, atresia of uterus . . 365 Acids, on (Odling) . . .2 Acid, arsenious, influence on change of tissue, &c. (Schmidt) . . . 445 — butyric, in ciders, marsh water, &c. (Pierre) 487 Acid, citric, in rheumatism . 413 — hippuric, analysis of (Wreden) . 96 — nitric, in remittent fever (Bedford) 143 — do. poisoning by (Budd) . 437 — oxalic, experiments (Skinner, Thudichum) 437 — do. poisoning by (Ikin, Page) 438 — do. do. * (Skinner) 437 — phosphoric, analysis of, by acetate of uranium (Pincus) . . 96 — pruseic, death from overdose . 460 — sulphuric, in tapeworm (Darrach) 225 — do. poisoning by (Ogle) . 437 — do. detection of sugar in diabetic urine by (M'Ghie) . . 96 — uric, crystals of, in pemphigus vesicles (Malmsten) . . 104 Acidity of urine (Lehmann) . 101 Ackebmann (Th.) influence of suffocation on quantity of blood in brain and lungs 130 do. 433 249 Acne, treatment of (Rodet) — pommade for (Bodet) . . 413 Acne rosacea (Hebra) . . 257 Aconite in tetanus (Sedgewick) . 160 — do. (Morgan) . 267 — poisoning by (Brown) . . 455 — mode of death produced by (Harvey) 65 Acton (W.) diseases of urinary and gene- rative organs . . . 321 Acupressure (Taylor) . . 276 — v. ligature (Dix) . . 276 — in haemorrhage (Simpson) . 276 — in amputations (Simpson) . 276 Acupuncture of varicose veins (Malago) 190 Adah, baths of Salzkammergut . 259 — hospitals of Munich . . 259 Adams (F.) foetal auscultation . 338 Adams (J.) mammary glandular tumour 278 — do. . . . . 379 — mammary adenocele, with cysts 379 — comminuted fracture of skull; trephining 293 — rupture of hernial sac in a fall 307 — See Hamsbolham. 32498 i n mix. Adams (W.) reparative proeesa in • human tendons, &c, after division . 333 — tubarian pregnancy, fatal . 312 Addison's diseaso (Housley) . 235 — See Skin (bronzed). Addison (\V.) changes in red corpuscles of blood, by certain fluids . . . 3G Adenocele, recurrence of (Birkett) 278 — do. ( do. ) 379 — mammary, with cysts (Adams) 379 — Seo Breast. Adljjk, injuries of blood-vessels . 429 Adbian, sale of milk at Paris . 492 Adsuead, hospitals and convalescents 483 Adulterations of food, cf'e. . . 491 — See names of articles adulterated. Aebt (Ch.) muscles of forearm and hand 25 Ague, sulphate of cinchonine in (Moutard- Martin .... 147 — qninic ether inhalations in (Groh) 413 — cyanide of iron, sodium, and salicine in 259 — iodide of quinine and iron in (Bosia) 412 Air, from Mont Blanc, composition of (Frank- land) ; . . . .123 Air vitiated hy fcecal emanations . 483 Aii', filtration of, in reference to putrefac- tions, &c. (Schroder) . . 126 — in blood, cause of sudden death (Dreyer) 188 — in veins, after parturition (Dalton) 349 — in peritoneal cavity, after perforation of stomach (Howitz) . . 230 — admisssion into serous cavities (Meadows) 208 — substances introduced by, into respiratory organs (Pouchet) . .110 — calcined, proto-organisms in (Pouchet) 113 — compressed, physiological effects of (Pra- vaz) . . . .131 Air-passages, diseases, wounds, §c, of 298 Air-passages, catheterism of (Green) 20G — fumigation of (Matthews) . 208 Air-vesicles of lungs, muscular fibres of (Moleschott) ... 76 Aix-la-Chapelle sulphur therma; in syphilis (Wetzlar) . . .139 Alders, syphilis of the brain . ' 160 Albumen, analysis of (Bodeker) . 120 — solubility by artificial gastric juice (Hiiue- feld) .... 85 Albuminous substances (Froehde) . 115 — digestion of (Meissner) . . 85 — products of decomposition of (ISrlcnmeyer) 121 — oxidation of, with permanganate of potash (Bcchamp) . . 116 Albuminuria (Bccquerel) . . 215 — (Corfe) .... 234 — (Wittich) . . . 217 — ferro-albuminous treatment of (Nelson) 104 — in case of endocarditis (1>l>err) 1 «7 Albuminuria without lesion of kidneys (Abeille). . . . 236 1 Alcohol, action of, on the nervous system* (Lallemand, Marcet) . . 57 — action on the animal economy (Smith) 55; — in exhausting diseases (Puimu) 139 — poisoning by (Hose) . . 465j Alcoholism, treatment (Smirnoff) . 113 — chronic (Canton, Willshire) . 153 — relation to insanity (Calmeil) . 181 Aldebson, epithelial cancer of larynx; tracheotomy . . . 300 Aldebson and Sibson, delirium tremens, treated without stimulants . 153 Aldis, self-power to prevent melancholy 177 — poisoning by liq. plumbi diac. dil. 451 Aldkidge, obstruction of bowels from ad- hesion to uterus . . . 229 — rupture of uterus . . 351 Aleteb, baths of ffiynhausen in nervous diseases .... 153 Algidity of infants (Loeschner) . 3S7 Alimentary canal, transference of poison*] from blood to (Taylor) . . 08 Alimentary substances (Moleschott) 82 Alimentation, influence of, on production of glycogene (Sanson) . . 123 Alison (Scott) percussion and auscultation 1 260 Allantois, formation and changes of (Schroe- der) .... 337 Axlaeton's lithotomy operation (Holt, Ward) 3li Allen, puerperal convulsions, peritonitis 381 Allix, rupture of cord. tend, of mitral valve 189 Almonds, oil of, poisoning by . 100 Alopecia (Wagner) . . 25t8 — of the head ( Wagner) . . 24S Althads, can lightning cure diseases ? 152 Alum and ice in hannatemesis (Ricci) 223 — do. 23M Alyabenga, tannin in albuminous anasarca 236 Amaurosis, hysterical (Hildige,Sharkey) 33H — in pregnancy (Hildige) . . 33B — from cysts in brain (Laborde) 152 Anfenorrh'tea, apiol for (Delorme) . 118 — iodine friction of abdomen (Kiget) 41fl Ammon (F. A.) epicanthus and epiblepharoitf 327 Ammonia, os a dermic agent in disease! (Grantham) . . • 248 _ 1 Ammonium, iodide of, in syphilis (Gambrrini) 138 Amputation . • • ■ ■'' Amputations during 1859 . . — acupressure in (Simpson) • — prevention of (Haul) . .261- — simultaneous double(Heyfelder) 270 do. (Roseiikrnnz) 272499 INDEX. Amputation at hip-joint (Ward) . 272 — of penis, cases . . • 311 — do. for cancer (Wenz) . 311 — in caries of tarsus (Thompson) . 272 — primary, of both feet (Ashdown) 272 — Pirogoff's, of foot (Mash) . 272 — spontaneous, of forearm in utero (Hardy) 411 Amussat's operation in disease of rectum (Ward) . . . 31] Amylaceous corpuscles,substanceof (Schmidt) 122 — in prostate (Ogston) . . 133 — do. (Paulitzky) . 134 — in skin (Liiys) . . . 134 Amyloid bodies (Ogston) . . 133 — (Wagner) . . .133 Amyloid degeneration (Harris) • 121 — of kidneys (Sauvin) . . 23G — of spinal cord (Laborde) . 152 Amyloid, substance, formation of, in the body (M'Donnell) ... 8*7 — in animal tissues (Rouget) . 122 Anosmia (Flint) . . .190 Anaesthesia, from effects of effused products in spinal canal (Ogle) . . 156 — hysterical cutaneous (Voisin) . 17G — rheumatic, of legs (Thielmann) . 152 Anaslhesia in midwifery . . 359 Anaesthetics, nature of death from (Kidd) 55 — action on the nervous system (Lallemand) 57 — See Chloroform. Analysis. See Chemical analysis. Anal cysts (Hyrtl) . . 249 Anasarca, albuminous, tannin in (Alvarenga) 236 Anastomoses, vascular, in cirrhosis of liver 231 Anatomy, human (Leidy) . . 1 — do. (Marshall) . 4 — do. microscopic (Kdllikei') 3 — descriptive (Gray) . . 1 — applied (Meyer) . . 1 — medical (Sibson) . . 1 — surgical (Gray) . . 1 Ancell, Roman bath . . 258 Anchylosis in fractures, prevention of (Morel- Lavallee) . . . 286 — of elbow, forcible flexion (Fergusson.Lane) 334 AlTDERL, thoracentesis . , 220 Andrade, American treatment for vesico- vaginal fistula . . . 377 Axdkien', milk and raw meat pulp in diar- rhoea of children . . 389 Andrietjx's case of Cesarean section (La- korie) • . . .356 Aneurisms . , t 274 Aneurism, external , , 274 — from anastomosis, excision in (Pcmbcrton) , . 274 — obligation above and below the sac 416 190 188 186 190 188 198 274 artery for . 274 Aneurism, iodide of potassium in (Bouillaud) 190 — of left, consecutive to that of right heart (Forget) . . .202 — from right auricle (Berthold) . 189 — of aorta (Page) . .190 — do. obscure (Stokes) . 197 — do. dissecting (Ranking) . 187 — do. pressing on trachea (Darrach) 187 — do. burst externally (Dickinson) 188 — of ascending aorta (Colin) . 203 — do. (Oppolzer) — of arch of aorta (Oorrigan) — do. (Earnshaw) — of thoracic aorta (Hudson) — do. (McDowel) — do. (McDowel) — of abdominal aorta(Johnson,Reid) 187 — axillary (Syme) — do. ligature of subclavian (Paget) — do. false (Skey) . . 274 — femoral, &c. (Lawrence) . 274 — do. compression (Quain) . 274 — of hepatic artery (Wallmann) . 187 — intra-orbital (Demarquay) . 190 — popliteal (Poland) . .275 — do. compression, &c. (Colles) 274 — do. bursting of sac, &c. (H. Smith) 275 — do. ruptured, gangrene (Soult) 268 — of radial artery, traumatic (Craven) 274 Angerstein, suicide by wire tack and sewing needles in brain . . . 434 Angina pectoris (Lussana) . 174 — do. (do.) . . 221 — do. (Piorry) . .155 — diphtheritic, in a child (Bouvier) 397 — membranous (Isnard) . . 206 — do. hydrochloric acid in (Servent) 224 Animalcules, nervous life of (Levison) 37 Animals, mental faculties of (Gerlach) 38 — industrial uses of (Lankester) . 1 Ankle-joint, compound dislocation of (Stan- ley) . . . .286 Annandaxe (T.) internal abscess of jaw 297 Anselmier, searching for portions of iron in soft tissues . . . 268 Anstie, anencephalous foetus . 408 Anthrax (Creutzer) . . 248 Antimony, research for, in organic matter (Taylor) . . . 441 — in grey powder (Redwood) . ■] 11 — poisoning by . . 449 — do. at Yeovil . . 449 Antrum, cystic enlargement (Lawrence) 294 — fibrous polypus of (Fergusson) 295500 INDEX. Anus, diseases, &c. of (Asliton) . 810 — congenitnl malformations of (Ashton, Bodenhamer) . . . 310 — do. do. . 409 — cysts of (Hyrtl) . . 310 — fissure in- (Clark, Duigan) . 810 — prolapsus of, sulphate of strychnia injec- tion (Foucher) . . . 422 — imperforate (Curling) . . 309 — do. (do ) . . 410 — do. operations (Minor) 409 — congenital closure of (Friedberg) 410 — artificial, Littre's operation (Holmes) 410 — do. for obstruction of bowels (Luke) 311 Aorta, increase of primitive branches of (Hyrtl) .... 406 — arising from both ventricles, &c. (Pea- cock) .... 405 — aneurism of (Page) . . 190 — do. burst externally (Dickinson) 188 — do. pressing on trachea (Darrach) 187 — do. obscure (Stokes) . 197 — do. dissecting (Ranking) . 187 — contraction and obliteration of (Peacock) 194 — perforation of, by cancer of oesophagus (McCombie) . . .222 — rupture of, into pericardial sac; death (Michell) . . .187 — dilated, valvular rupture of (Davies) 190 — stenosis of (Porster) . . 200 — ascending, aneurism of (Cohn) . 203 — do. do. (Oppolzer) . 190 — do. puncture of, by a needle; death (Skey) . . . .273 — arch of, aneurism (Corrigan) . 188 — do. do. (Earnskaw) . 186 — do. imperforate (Barker) . 190 — thoracic, aneurism of (McDowel) . 188 — do. (Hudson) . 190 — abdominal, aneurism of (Johnson, Reid) 187 Aphonia, syphilitic (Diday) . . 207 Aphtha?, local treatment of (Guillot and Flugtel) 420 Apoplectic congestion, arsenic in (Lamare- Picquot) 411 Apoplectiform seizure, sixth day of lying-in (West) 385 Apoplexy, diagnosis of (Poelman) . 16 — of the brain, pycemia (Groen) . 397 — serous (Da Costa) . . . 152 Apparatus and bandages . . 286 Appendix vermiformis, perforation of (Leudet) 227 — do. (Traube) . . 223 Arachnoid, new membranes and cvsts of (Brur.et) 168 — epithelial granulations of (Meyer) 159 — spinal, pigment in (Mohnike) . 153 Arachnoid cavity, sanguineous cysts in (Brunet) . . . 152 Akan, chloroform in spasmodic contractions 152 — use of Major's hammer in pneumonia 207 — pleurisy and thoracentesis . 220 — dilatation of biliary passages . 237 — peri-utcrinc inflammation . 370 Arcus senilis (Arnold) . . . 328 Areola of the nipple (Momberger) . 113 Argillaceous earth (Richart) . 248 Argyria, with deposits of silver in intestines (Frominann) .... 101 AnLfDGE, indurated tuinourofbrain 154 — lunatic asylums of Italy, France, and Germany 178 Ahmsteokg, uterine haemorrhage at term 348 Aiinold, conjunctiva of cornea . 328 Ahnott (C. D.) rigidity of os uteri 345 Aenott (Jas.) congelation in rheumatic affections 147 — curability of cancer . . .279 Arsenic, separation of, from antimony (Hoff- mann) ..... 411 — research for, in organic matter (Tavlor) 411 — on obtaining crusts of (Guy) . 443 — in Bath buns . 4-16 — in pcrchloride of iron (Hofmann, Letlieby) 486 — in grey powder ? (Redwood) . 444 — poisoning by (Hofmann) . . 436 — do. (Fasoli, Keber, Maschka) 446 — poisonous action of (Schmidt, Schroff) 444 — do. byScheele's green (Lorinser) 416 — do. Marsh's apparatus (Schneider) 412 — do. subcarbonate of iron in (Trapani) 225 — influence of fatty bodies on (Blondlot ) 1 i 1 — application of (Isnard) . . 139 — in skin diseases (Buntzen) . 248 — in apoplectic congestion (Lamare-Picquot) 414 — in acute chorea (Ronzier-Joly) . 1 9 — in pruritus vulvae (Imbert, Koch) 250 Arsenic-eaters of Stvria (Heiscb, Roscoe) 01 Arsenical fly-papers (Brett) . . 117 Arsenical water of Whitbeck (Church) 115 Arson, mental condition of person acccuscj of (Schumacher) . . . 476 — See Incendiarism. Arteries, anatomy of (Power) . 27 — atrophy of (Canton) . . . 1S8 — emboli of . . . . • 2/5 — emboli of the (Mercier) . .190 — pressure of blood in (Poiseuille) — unusual obstruction of (Brainwell) 195 — transposition of (.Meigs) . . 190 — wounds of, ij'c. . . • • ! — deligation in wounds of (Roux) 276 — carotid, wound of, &c. (Lloyd) . I 273INDEX. 501 Artery, carotid, ligature of, for hffline-rrhage from tonsil (Stanley) • • 273 — do. deligation of (Clark) . 273 — do. internal, plugging of (.Tenner) 153 — cerebral, emboli in . . . 188 — do. (Jenuer, Lebert) 187 — femoral, aneurism of; compression (Quain) 274 — do. rupture of coats of (Stewart) 273 — do. ligature of (Lawrence) . 271 — hepatic, aneurism of (Wallmann) 1S7 — iliac, obliteration of (Charcot) . 275 — of leg, difficulty in tying after amputa- tion (Verneuil) .... 276 — popliteal, rupture of (Poland) . 275 — do. deligation of (Verneuil) 276 — pulmonary, communication with aorta (Wilis) . . : . .405 — do. contraction of (Bondet) . 190 — do. emboli in (Dienstl) . 190 — do. do. (Paulsen) . . 385 — do. murmur in (Sieveking) . 11>I — do. insufficiency of valves of (Kolisko) 189 — radial, traumatic aneurism of (Craven) 274 — renal, ligature of, alterations in kidneys after (Blessig) . . . . 23G — subclavian, ligature of (Paget) . 274 Arteritis (Thompson) . . . 198 Arthroxerosis (Schuh) . . . 288 Arum maculatum, poisoning by (Cancella) 459 Ascarides, treatment of (0. Ward, &c.) 420 Ascaiis lumbricoides (Davaine) . 260 Ascites, jaundice with (Budd) . 210 — treatment of (Croskery) . . 223 — paracentesis abdom. in (Carter) 231 — do. do. . 302 — cure by spontaneous rupture of abdom. parietes (Croskery) . . . 223 Ashdown, primary amputation of both feet 272 AsiintiHST (John) on nervous action 37 Asiiton (T. J.) diseases and malformations of rectum and anus . . . 310 — Caisarean operation . . . 356 Asphyxia, recovery from (Thamhayn) 205 Asphyxia neonatorum, Marshall-Hall treat- ment in (Prall) . . , 393 — mouth to mouth method in (Keyt) 393 Assaults, immoral (Penard) . . 4.70 Asthma (Salter) .... 205 — treatment of (Pridham) . . 213 — fumigations in (Grand-Marais) 155 — hypodermic injection in (Courty) 208 — mineral waters of Montdore in (Richclot) 155 — hay, stramonium in (Lawford) . 214 — thymic (Fricdleben) . . 393 — do. See Laryngismus. Astragalus, dislocations of (Hutchinson) 286 — excision of (Erichscn) . . 292 Ataxic locomotrice progressive (Duchenne) L59 Atheromas (Hartmann) . . 257 Atheroma and thrombosis (Buhl) . 189 Atheromatous expression (Gibb) . L96 Atkinson (E.) lithotomy in a female W1Q — do. 378 Atlas, caries and dislocation of (Titngel) 281 Atlee (W. L.) ovarian tumours . 372 — vesico-vaginal fistula . . 377 Atresia; of female sexual organs (Simon) 364 — See Anus, Rectum, Vierus, kc. Atrophy of the arteries (Canton) . 188 ■— acute, of liver (Breithaupt) . 239 — do. (Gaupp) • • 238 — do. (Oppolzer) . 2 1:! — do. from retention of bile (Aran) 237 — do. in a child . . . .399 — muscular (Luys) . . . 163 — do. (Niemeyer) . . 185 — do. paralysing (Sandabl) . 185 — do. progressive (Bamberger) 186 — of hypoglossal, facial, and spinal nerves (Dumenil) .... 47 — of both testicles (Le Gendre) . 236 Atropine, poisoning by (Lange) . 455 — in epilepsy (Maresch) . . 157 — injections in neuralgia (Cowdell) 151 — sulphate of, intetanus(Pescheux) 151 — do. subcutaneous injection of (Behier) 157 Aubebt. (H.) after-images from the electric spark 72 AcBiiu>', perchloride of iron in diphtheria 151 Aver, poisoning by corrosive sublimate 451 Aurengzebie or Delhi sore ( Balfour) 248 Auricle, right, aneurism from (Berthold) 189 — do. t inflammation of (Rees). 190 — do. myocarditis and endocarditis of (Wagner) .... 189 Autopsies, medico-legal (Niemann) 435 — of natural deaths (Toulmouche) 466 Auzouy, lesions of cutaneous sensibility in insane ..... 179 Ava root (Gobley) . . . 259 Axilla, secondary cancer of (Woodward) 133 — right, secretion of milk from (Hare) 93 Axillary dislocations (Thaden) . 283 Atees, dysentery .... 225 Azan, nervous sleep or hypnotism 2 Baaiit de la Faille, phlebo-thrombosis 203 Babixgton, elephantiasis . . 247 Baccelli, empyema from pleurisy . 207 Baiehlaciiek (C.) peculiar muscular move- ments . 25 — Galvanic current . , 415502 INDEX. Baillarueu, gangrene of bruin . 154 — communicability of insanity . 177 — hypochondriacal insanity; paralysis 178 — paralytic dementia, and nianin . 185 Bainbhidge, enlarged clitoris . 375 Haines (M. A.) comparison of human and animal milks . . .92 — do. 389 Baisle, thoracentesis and iodine injections In pleural elfusions . . . 207 1!a m: i;, double transverse hemiplegia 153 Balassa, cystic tumours in neck . 277 Baldeii (J. S.) transposition of heart, &c. 189 Balfoue, aurengzebie, or Delhi sore 248 — castor oil manufacture at Dinapore 259 Baxfoue (T. G.) study of spirometry 77 Ball. See Charcot. Ball a wd (T.) new explanation of diseases of infants ("fruitless sucking," &c.). 387 1!a>n;lk k, vicious habits in young children 236 Bambeegee, progressive muscular atrophy 186 — pemphigus . . . 257 Bandage, articulating (Mbrel-Lavallee) 286 —■ plaster of Paris (Fleming) . 286 — wadding (Schultz) . . 286 Banks (J. T.) rubeola, with pus in the joints 137 — do. 403 — acute mania following chorea . 151 — muscular palsy, Cruveilhier's disease 185 Baebee, Wiitzer and Wood's hernia opera- tions .... 304 Baedeleben, manual of surgery . 264 Baedt, lithotomy in the female . 378 Baeensfeung, skin diseases . 255 Baeham, climate . . ». 259 Baeilliee, congenital syphilis, transmission by lactation . . . 404 Baeing, dwellings of operatives . 481 Baekeh (F.) external manipulation and ce- phalic version in malposition of foetus 355 — Cassarian operation . . 356 Baekee (H.) severe urticaria from cetaceous larva) . . . t . 250 — annular laceration of cervix uteri 351 Baekee (T. A.) imperforate arch of aorta; root ruptured . . . 190 Baekow (II. C. L.) congenital hyperoxida- tion of blood ... 81 Baknes, Thames theory of disoaso 483 Barnes (R.) asymmetrical distortion of pelvis .... 344 — value of turning in coarctation of pelvic brim . . . .353 Barry (Milncr) chylous urine . 106 — leucocythcemia . . . 188 Baktji, diagnosis of phthisis, and dilatation of bronchi . . . 208 B.urninz, tracheotomy and medication in croup (comparison) . . 212 Bartholow, medical topography, &c, of Fort Bridger, Utah territory . 258 Baeton (J. K.) morphia injections in heini- crania .... 153 — case of diphtheria . . 223 — biniodide of mercury in lupus . 218 Baetscha, poisoning by colchicum 456 Bauwell, scrofulous diseases of synovial membranes . . . 287 Basiiam, renal abscess . . 238 — renal dropsy . . . 239 Basslingee and Eden, use of pepsin 222 Bastian, fracture of Becond rib; emphy- sema, &c. ... 283 Bastien. See Le Gendre. Bataxla, inguinal tumour containing lum- brici .... 224 Bathing, sea (Schildbach) . . 260 Baths, permanent local (Zeis) . 270 Baths of (Eynhausen in nervous diseases (Alfter) . . . .153 — of Salzkammergut (Adam) . 259 — hot-air, in diabetes (Swinhoe) . 235 — Roman (Ancell) . . 258 — Turkish (Cummins) . . 247 — do. (Wilson, Wollaston, Wells) 248 — do. (Madden) ... 250 Batrachia, influence of spinal cord on lym- phatic heart of (Vulpian) . 38 Battye, ovarian tumour . . 371 Bauchet, wounds of encephalon . 293 Baudot, obstinate vomiting in pregnancy 380 Baudrimont (E.) chemical composition of hair .... 116 Baue (W.) simple cardiac hypertrophy 188 Baxtee (II. F.) organic polarity . 3 Beale (L.) distribution of nerves to iibres of striped muscle . . 40 — on recording physical signs . 259 — lectures on urine, urinary deposits, and calculi .... 99 — urine of chorea . . . 108] Bean-flower, if addition of, to wheat-Hour detrimental (Dclarue) . . 492 Beau, on death by submersion . 79 — do. . 134 — bloodletting in inflammations . 201 — saturnine medication in phthisis 207 — on hysteria . . • 367 — treatment of dyspepsia . 113; Beciiamp (A.) products from oxidation ofi albuminous substances with permanganate! of potash . . .116 Beck (B.) medullary and mucoid fattyj tumours ... 133 Beck (J. B.) and Gieman, medical jurispru- dence . • • .124)INDEX, 503 Becker, dwellings of operatives . 481 Beck Manx, thrombosis of renal veins in • children . 203 — melanannia . . • 196 Beclabd (J.) heat produced during muscu- lar contraction ... 21 Becquerel, albuminuria . . 245 — diseases of uterus . . 362 Bedford (G. S.) diseases of women and children . . . .362 Beer, formation of pus . . 136 — connective tissue of kidney . 245 Beer, falsifications of (Pfaff, Wenke) 492 Bee-sting, fatal effect of (Hanbury) 258 Begbie, malformation of pulmonary valves 188 Behier, subcutaneous injection of sulphate of atropine . . . 157 Beiirend, dangers of chloroform . 461 — influence of occupation on health and mortality . . . 490 Beigel, poisoning by conium inaculatum 457 Bell, typhus fever . . 138 — do. 144 Bell, of Iowa, successful gastrotomy 302 Bell (B.) and H. Watson, Edinb. Eye In- firmary report . . . 326 Belladonna, influence of (Hughes) . 164 — do. on pneumogastric nerve (Hughes) 60 — do. on mammary gland (Marley) 378 — dilatation of the pupil by (Hughes) 60 — in cholera, &c. (Leclerc) . 225 — in involuntary defecation . 400 — in hooping-cough (Fuller) . 214 — external use, in myelitis, &c. (Bree) 153 — as an antaphrodisiac (Heustis) 157 — poisoning by . . . 455 — do. (Castaldi) . . 456 — do. in coffee (Chevallier) 457 — opium as an antidote to (Lopez) 457 Beneke, non-identity of connective tissue, cartilage, and bone corpuscles . 134 Bentzen, mortality of first year of life 388 Beraud, variolous orchitis and ovaritis 240 — do. 372 — See Faure. Berend (H. W.) necrosis in stumps 272 Berend, report of Berlin Orthopaedic Insti- tution . . . .390 Berg, protective power of vaccination 496 Bergii, oedema of glottis . . 215 Beegoitiiniol-x, herpetic affection of tongue 224 Bbegson, local atrophy . . 177 Bcri-beri (Oudenhoven) . . 142 Bernard (C.) experimental pathology and physiology ... q — vaso-motor influence of the sympathetic nerve • • . . 29 — sensitive properties and reflex movements of sympathetic nerve . . 38 Bernard (C.) general effects of medicinal substances ... 58 — on muscular poisons . . 05 — effects of woorara . . C6 — the parotid gland . . 83 — glucogene of the liver . . 88 — cause of death in animals in high tempe- ratures .... 131 — malformation of the heart; two cavities only . . . . .187 Bernard (J.) chemical agents of disease in the living body . . 62 Bernatzik, mustard cakes and oil 139 Berneb, motion of the heart . 201 Bernutz and Gottpil, diseases of women 362 Berrutti, cyanide of iron, &c, in ague 259 Bertet, hypertrophic elongation of cervix uteri .... 365 Berthelot and De Ltjoa, sugar from he- patic glucogene ... 88 Berthiee, melancholia from latent preg- nancy ; abortion . . 178 Beethold, aneurism from right auricle 189 Beettjlus (E.) real action of heat, cold, and moisture, on the organism . 131 — diseases of the liver . . 241 Betoli (Ign.) communicability of tetanus from animals to men . . 175 Betz, santonine , . . 258 — on infraction . . . 281 — emphysema pulmonnm from hooping- cough .... 395 — on green stools of children . 398 Bevan, scalds of the larynx . 209 Betdlee, on the vectis . . 358 Betean, syphilitic paralysis of nerviis oculo- motorius . . . 323 Bezoed (A. v.) physiology of electrotone 52 — action of woorara on motor nerves 67 — and J. Rosenthal, law of muscular con- tractions ... 54 Biefee, plastic operations on perkueuin 375 Bierbatth, paralyses of children . 391 Biermee, cholesterine in sputa, sign of em- pyema .... 205 Biggs, poisoning by arsenical paper 448 Bile {The) .... 91 Bile, colouring matter of (Thudichum) 91 — of the kangaroo (Schlossberger) 129 — analysis of that of a criminal (Schaefer) 91 — transformation of starch by (Nasse) 91 — retention of, effects (Aran) 237 — suppressed secretion of, &c. (Moore) 234 Bile-substances, polarizing properties of (Hoppe) . . . .91 — their products of decomposition (Hoppc) 9! Biliary passages, dilatation, &c, from reten- tion of bile (Aran) . . 237504 INDEX. Bilhakz (\.) genital organs of Et) uopian eunuchs . . . .90 BnioD, pellagra In Italy . . 185 — simulation <il'insanity . . I7li Billroth, minute structure of medullary tumours, &c. . . . 134 — classification of tumours . 276 ■ tumours of salivary glands . 278 resection of head of femur . 290 — resection of knee-joint . . 292 — extraction of foreign bodies from the ear 331 BufAED, cerebral symptoms in rheumatic gout . . . .156 Binder, obstetric (Hardey) . 359 Binocular vision (Prevost) . 69 Bihd (G.) and C. Brooke, natural philo- sophy . . . .2 Birds, sensory and motor nerves in (Moreau) 45 Bikkett (J.) new growths; cysts 276 — recurrence of an adenocele . 278 — do. do. . 379 — melanotic tumour from thigh . 279 — fracture of base of skull . 293 — lithotomy, second time . . 317 — calculus; lithotrity . . 319 Bibnbaum, obstetric importance of lumbar part of spine . . . 339 — congenitalluxation of hip . 407 Birth, simulation of (Nusser) . 435 Births, plural . . . 345 Births, plural (Dessauer) . .345 — twin (Hak, Siebold) . . 346 — do. (Sehoenfeld) . . 347 — do. locked (Weir) . . 346 — do. adherent by thoracic and abdominal surfaces (Dreissigacker) . . 347 — triple (Dunal, &c.) . . 346 — quadruple (Times, &c.) . . 346 Bischoff, nutrition of man and animals 86 Black, Newhaven, and its fishing popula- tion .... 480 Bladder, urinary, injuries, diseases, <$fc. 315 Bladder, malignant disease of (Russell) 316 — cancer of (Luke) . . 316 — do., in a female (Watson) . 316 — do. do. (do.) . 377 — do., epithelial (Clarke) . . 235 — do., villous (Hirschsprung) . 234 — catarrh of, tannin in (Pieplu) . 236 — cystocele and puncture of (Nelson) 351 — congenital extroversion of (Priestley 409 — inversion of (Gruber) . . 409 — do., during pregnancy (Johnston) 815 — do. do. (do.) 352 — rupture of (Spenco) . ■ 315 — absence of (Schmit) . . 409 Blair intestinal worms . . 224 — do, . . 399 Blasit/s on infraction . . 281 Bf.AziKA, uterine polypi . . 368 Bleeding. See Bloodletting. Hi.KSsio, alterations in kidneys after liga- ture of renal artery . . 236 BUSY, acid secretion of mouth in infants; thrush .... 397 Blondlot, fatty bodies, influence of, on arsenic .... 444 Blood, circulation of, in health and disease (Marey) .... 33 — do., in the limbs and head (Sucquet) 27 — do., dependence of periods of, on rates of pulse (Vierordt)... 30 — conditions in mania (Hood) . 34 — do. (do.) . 185 — extravasation of, on brain (Curran) 225 — congenital hyperoxidation of (Barkow) 81 — influence of dilution of, on secretion of urine (Herrmann) . . 246 — do. (do.) . .261 — pressure of, on arterial system (Poiseuille) 32 — sweating of (Parrot) . . 191 — transfusion of, in post-partum haemor- rhage (Martin) . . . 350 — in brain and lungs, influence of suffoca- tion on quantity of (Ackermann) 130 — transference of poisons from, to alimentary canal (Taylor) ... 68 — air in, cause of sudden death (Dreyer) 188 — arterial, temperature of (Wurlitzer) 37 — venous, temperature of (do.) 37 — do. influence of nerves on the colour of (Meyer) ... 31 — red corpuscles of, changes in, by certain fluids (Addison) ... 36 — do., action of salts on (Botkin) . 199 Blood-crystals, legal import of (Buchner) 431 Blood-glands ... 94 Blood-stains . . . 430 Blood-stains, analysis of (Heller, Meyer) 432 -— detection of (Mequel, Hitter) . 432 — rhomboidal crystals from (Scriba) 431 Blood-vessels, ifc, system of . 27 Blood-vessels of thyroid gland (Hyrtl) 95 — niyodynamics of (Cohen) . 30 — pathology of (Wcdl) . . 189 — do. (do.) . . 200 — small, villous outgrowths of (Luschka) 188 Blood-vessels, wounds of, §c. . 273 Blood-vessels, injuries of (Adler) . 429 — capillary, in inflammation (Packard) 34 j — do. (do.) 187 — femoral, gunshot injury to (Hilton) 273 Blood-spot disease, Werlhofs (Doringer) 1S7 Bloodletting in inflammations (Beau) 201 — in acute lepra (Wiltshire) . 248 Bloodgood, bronchial respiration. 211 Blooiifield, loose cartilage in knee-joint 288INDEX. 505 Bloseeld, causes of death, freezing, &e. 434 — doubtful case of suicide . 476 Bloxam, electrolysis for detection of metallic poisons 443 Blumexthax, mortality of infants in Mos- cow Foundling Hospital . 388 Blumleix, velvet and silk weaving, their injurious influence on health . 488 Blyth, manure from sewage waters 485 Boblix, sensation of a body in relief from a single picture ... 70 Bock, chloroform in itch . . 218 Boeck, tertiary syphilis . . 323 — on syphilisation . . . 324 Bockexdahl, inversio uteri . 364 BoCKEii, poisoning by phosphorus matches 440 Boddaebt, on the vectis . . 358 Bodekee (F. W.) constituents of the spleen 95 — chemical contributions . . 96 — composition of pus, and of contents of two ovarian cysts . . . 118 — quantitative analysis of albumen 120 Bodexiiaiier (W.) congenital malforma- tions of rectum and anus . 310 — do. . . 409 Bodixgtox (G.) physiological effects of opium .... 59 Body, form and constituents of (Frey) 1 — structure and functions (Marshall) 4 Body, injuries of . . . 424 BoEHir, uric-acid sediment in kidneys of infants .... 400 Bohm, ventilation of hospitals . 182 Bonx, hernia diaphragmatica . 207 — do. . 304 Boixet, constitutional Iodism . 262 — abdominal tumours and ovarian cysts, difference of . . 372 — on food containing iodine . 390 — and Leudet, hydatids of liver . 243 BoKAiir, epidemic of erythema, &c. 403 Bollet, antidoteagainst inspiredchlorine 165 Boxafos-Lazerme, otorrhcea . 334 Boxd (F. T.) pathology of chorea 163 — on Virchow's theory of inflammation 188 Boxdesex, dislocation of cervical vertebras 281 Boxdet, contraction of pulmonary artery 190 Bones, formation, Sfc, of . . 16 Bones, intermaxillary, of man (Larcher) 19 — inferior maxillary, arrest of development in (Canton) ... 18 — regeneration of (Bourguet) . 16 — complete reproduction of (Mottet) 17 — transplanting of, taken from animals after death (Oilier) ... 16 — artificial production of (Oilier) 16 — tissue between articular cartilage and (llulke) ... 19 Bone3 of foetus, colouration of^by madder (Flourens) . . . 112 — in the lung's (Wagner) . . 206 . — do. (do.) . . 216 Bones, diseases of . . 279 —fractures and luxations of . 280 Bones, depression of, in injury of the head (Doll) . ." . 428 Bones, injuries of, in children . 400 Box gaud, on epilepsy . . 176 Eoxifas, eclampsia ; mania; cure 384 Boxifaz and Mazel, cerebral rheumatism 151 Boxxafoxt, ossicula auditus and mem- brana tympani . . .73 — aether in relapsing fever . 261 — luxation of the coccyx . 285 Boxnet, Csesarean operations . 356 Boechaed, sudden death . 434 — suicide by strangulation . 434 — suicide or murder of a prisoner 434 Boeelli, cyanide of iron, &c, in ague 259 — granular conjunctiva . . 328 Boex, drowning of new-born child 469 Bosia, iodide of quinine and iron in ague 412 Bosse (C. H.) influence of spinal ganglions on nutrition of posterior roots of spinal nerves .... 45 Bostock (J. S.) congenital hydrocephalus 406 Botal's duct, thrombosis of (Klob) 202 Botkix, action of salts on the red corpuscles 199 Bottixi, pertussis, epidemic, in Mentone 207 — new remedies for phthisis . 220 Bouchaedat, infection from putrid fermen- tation of excrements . . 139 — disinfectants to prevent do. . 139 — constitutional iodism . . 262 Bouchee, Cesarean operation . 356 Boucnui', metallic armatures in chorea 155 — tracheotomy in croup . . 218 — abscess in iliac fossa in children 222 — cysticerci in brain of children . 391 Boudet and Boussixgault, milk-sugar in milk . . . .92 Bottdix, non-cosmopolitism of human race 2 — medical statistics and geography, and epi- demics . . . 47^ Bottillato, potass, iod. in aneurisms 190 Bouley, digestive assimilation of medicines into milk . . . 232 Bottbdox, rheumatic hemiplegia and pneu- monia .... 156 — biliary calculus in digestive tube 221 Botjegadh, first period of tuberculosis 220 Bouegeois, Cesarean section . 356 Bomiarai, regeneration of bone . 16 — rupture of ligament of , atella . 285 Bouuciuigxox, ncuralgiaof theskin 153 — See Delafond.50(1 INDBX. IJOV6SIN.iAlJ.T. Sec Jtvudfl. Boutonnidro operation in stricture (Lee) 314 BotrviEH, diphtheritic angina Rind croup in u child ; 397 — distortions of spinal column . 402 Bowles (11. L.) on stertor and its treat- ment .... 79 Bowman, disease of hip-joint; resection 290 Bowring (G.) yellow fever . 137 Boys de Louby, retention of fccces in largo intestines . . . 222 Braidism .... 178 — (Jafte) . . .260 Brain, faculties of, connected with the senses (Nourse) . . .2 — correlations of mind and (Laycock) 2 — chemical composition of (Lorenz) 10 — circulation of (Cappie) . 1 — new formation of gray substance of (Tiingel) . . . 134 — do. (do.) . 157 — defect of (Heschl) . . 408 — compression of (Gordon) . 152 — do. respiratory movement in (Hegelmayer) . . .82 — affections of, from disease near nose and eye (Weher) . . .152 — do. (do.) . 156 — anatomical lesions of (Fahrner) 154 — diseases of (Griesinger) . 152 Brain, diseases of, in children . 390 Brain, obscure diseases of (Brinton) 151 — do. (Winslow) 177 — disease of, unrecognised ♦ . 473 Brain, injuries of . . 293 Brain, injury of (Kalisch) . . 429 — wounds of (Bauchet) . .293 — apoplexy of (Groen) . . 397 — gangrene of (Baillarger) . 154 — oedema of (Marcd). . . 163 — pigment in vessels of (Stein) . 167 — softening of (Gordon) . 152 — do. (Lebert) . . 187 — do. (Stanley) . . 273 — do. slow, treated by tonics (Teis- sier) . . . • 172 — do. in hemiplegia (Jenner) 153 — syphilis of (Albers) . . 160 — tumour of (Wood) . . 157 — do. indurated (Arlidge) . 151 Buamwell, unusual arterial obstruction 195 Bkandeis, presentation of the funis 359 Hit Andes, treatment of pneumonia 219 Brandt, inversio uteri . . 364 Brandy injections in cholera (Smith) 230 Bbattleb, morbid urology . 234 I'.hauell, course of vaso-motor nerves of hind leg in the dog . . 38 Bhat/n, galvanic cautery in prolapsus uteri 864 BbAun, prolapsus uteri; removal of vaginal portion . . . 305 — peri-uterine hematocele . 369 ■ Beaune (W.) metamorphosis of cancer into mucus .... 133 Bread, new system of manufacture (Dauglish) 49] Breast, diseases of . . 378 Breast, saccharine fermentation in (Gibb) 93 — cancer of (Collis, Fergusson) . 379 — hypertrophy of (Lotzbeck) . 379 — do. (Manec) . 379 — inflammation and abscess of (M'Clintock, Nunn) .... 378 — sero-cystic disease of (Fleming) 278 — do. (Adams, Fleming) 379 — excision of scirrhous (Fergusson) 279 — tumours of (Erichsen) . . 278 — do. (do.) . . 379 — do. operations . . 278,379 — do. glandular (Adams, Birkett, Fergusson) . . . 278 — do. (do.) . . 379 Bree, ergot of rye in myelitis, &c. 153 Bbeisky, on stillborn children . 392 BiiEiTHATTPT, fracture of fifth and sixth cer- vical vertebra? . . . 281 — and Feost, acute atrophy of liver 239 Brent, enlargement of thymus gland in children . . .393 Beeslau, halisteresis cerea . 344 — pessaries . . . 364 — Hennig and Haaee, diagnosis of sex of fcetus .... 338 Beesslee (A. C.) the cardiac diastole 30 Beetschneidee. See Schmidt. Beett, arsenical fly-papers . 447 Beicka, cholera in Denmark, 1853 139 Brickfields, diseases of workmenin (Heise) 487 Bridger Fort,Utah, medical topography (15;ir- tholow) . . .258 Beieebe de Boisitont, perversion of mental and bodily faculties; paralysis . 178 — asylums for insane in France . 182 — suicide by fire-arms . . 434 Bright's disease (Oppolzer) . 216 — after scarlet fever . . 400 — in connection with typhus . 216 — therma? of Ems in (Spengler) . 236 Beinton (W.) lecture on physiology 1 — typhoid fever . . . 138 — obscure brain disease . . 151 — delirium tremens . . 152 — chlorosis as cause of venous obstruction 187 — complex heart disease . . 188 — cirrhosis of the liver . . 222 — cancer of the stomach . . 223 — fatal peritonitis . . 223 — emetics in typhoid fever . 414 — on non-digestive function of pancreas, remarks on (Corvisart) . 84 Bbiquelot, dystocia; forceps; Cecsarenn operation . . • 3581MJK.V. 507 Briquet, therapeutics of chorea . 155 — on hysteria . . • 367 Bbistowe, renal abscess . . 237 — alveolar cancer of uterus . 366 — cancer of cystic ovaries, &c. . 371 Broca (P.) hybridity in the human species 2 — congenital inequality of sides of body 404 Broca de Sainte Fox, spina bifida of lum- bar region . . . 408 Brocuin, curara in tetanus . 267 Brock (Van den) on fermentation and putre- faction .... 127 Bhodhuhst (B. E.) intra-uterine fracture 333 Brodie (Wm.) hydrophobia . 157 Bhodie (Sir B.) calculi mixed with teeth, &c. 316 Bronchial dilatation (Dienstl) 190 do. (Traube) 207 Bronchial glands, diseases of (Cohn) 190 — do. (do.) 205 — enlargement and tuberculosis of (Hennig) 393 Bronchial respiration (Bloodgood) . 211 Bronchitis, chronic (Duncalfe) . 205 — do. pills for (Williams) 416 Brouchocele, enormous, cured (Knode) 237 — strychnia in (Murney) . . 235 — do. (do.) . . 240 Broncho-pneumonia, fibrinous (Galassi) 219 Bronchotoinia (Mendel) . . 300 Brooke (C.) See Bird. Brosius, doubtful mode of death of child found in ice . . 469 Brougham:, heat-apoplexy or sunstroke 154 Brown (Bedford) adynamic type of remit- tent fever . . . 143 Brown (P. J.) diagnosis of phthisis, by mi- croscope .... 205 do. 212 Brown (I. B.) ruptured perinajum 352 — retained menses from imperforate os uteri 364 — tapping and pressure in ovarian dropsy 374 — multilocular ovarian dropsy ; ovariotomy 374 — cases of ruptured perinrcum . 375 — cases of vesico-vaginal fistula . 376 — vesico-vaginal fistula operations 377 Bkown' (J.) surgery of Indian campaign, 1857-8 .... 265 BEOVTN (.1. Barr) poisoning by aconite 455 li::ow.v (W.) re-vaccination of children 138 Bkown-Skquard (C. E.) experiments on medulla oblongata . . 37 — independence of vital properties of motor nerves . . . .37 — on Budge's asserted spinal nervous centre 38 — experiments on sensibility . 42 Brown-Sequard (C. E.) physiology and pathology of pons varolii . 46 — velocity of nervous current . 47 — influence of light, cold, and heat on the iris 69 — on epilepsy . . . 151 — epilepsy; intra-cranialtumour 154 — hereditary transmission of accidental epi- lepsy .... 116 — prevention of epilepsy by the ligature 156 — epilepsy from disordered menstruation 156 — do. < 367 — modification of nutrition, in epilepsy 157 — on counter-irritants in epilepsy . 176 — paralysis . . .154 — writer's palsy . . . 156 — paralysis of the lower extremities 168 — influence of nerves on nutrition of skin 250 Browne (C.) psychical diseases of early life 178 Browne (J.) enormous vesical calculus 316 Browne (S.) hypertrophy of clitoris and nympha) .... 376 — congenital malformation of the pupils 408 Bruce, intra-uterine smallpox . 407 Brucke (E.) on digestion . . 82 Bruckhaedt (G.) epithelium of urinary passages . . . .96 Brttnet (D.) sanguineous cysts in arachnoid cavity . . . .152 — new membranes and cysts of arachnoid 168 Brunniche, Mortality and diseases of chil- dren .... 387 — use of morphia, &c, for children 390 — icterus in new-born children . 399 Bruns, surgical report, at Tubingen 242 — surgical pathology of organs of mastica- tion and taste . . . 297 Brtant (R.) chloroform in strangulated hernia . ... 306 — constipation after operation for strangu- lated hernia . . . 306 Bryant (T.) injuries of nervous system 264 — fracture of ribs, emphysema, &c. 282 — reduction of dislocation at hip by mani- pulation .... 285 — caries of the skull, trephining . 294 — calculus from tonsil . . 297 — surgical diseases of nose, larynx, &c. 299 — tumour on trachea; tracheotomy 300 .— polypus of rectum in a child . 310 " — retention of urine; stricture . 313 Buchanan (A.) lithotomy as a cause of death 317 BucnHEiSTER, liquor ferri sesquichlorati in cholera .... 4,^2 BiiciiNER(L.)chloroform inhalation, fatal 261 — death by chloroform . , 4.53503 INDEX. BuOUNER,(L.) incapacity for work from injury to sputa! marrow . .429 HiicnNEit. arsenical wall-papers . 418 — and Simon, htanun crystals, legal import of 431 Bucknill (J. C.) medical knowledge of Shakespeare . . .2 Budd (G.) hydatid tumours of liver 240 — jaundice with ascites . . 210 — warty growths in larynx; tracheotomy 299 — poisoning by nitric acid . 437 Hudd (W.) intestinal fever . 141 Budge (J.) dependence of rhythmical move- ments of the heart on cardiac ganglia (reply, to Wittich) . . 28 — genito-spinal centre of sympathetic nerve 38 — different sensibility in same nerve 42 — functions of cceliac and mesenteric plex- uses .... 44 — electric phenomena presented by open induction-circuits . . 64 — influence of irritation of vagus nerve on respiration ... 81 — See Brown-Sequa/rd. Buez (A.) curability of cancer . 279 ■— luxation of the thigh on the pubis 285 Buhl, thrombosis and atheroma . 189 — dilatation of pulmonic capillaries 204 — childbed fever . . .381 — Rindeleisch, &c, formation of pus 136 Buignet, milky liquid from paracent. ab- dom. .... 224 Buisson. See Martin-Magron. Bull, Cesarean section . . 356 Bunau, incendiarism and poisoning by phos- phorus .... 431 Bunsen. See Kirchhoff. Buntzen, arsenic in skin diseases . 248 Btjnzel, axial twisting of intestines 222 do. 303 Burckhardt, changes in mucous membrane from inflammatory action . 133 Bueggeaeve, surgery . . 265 Burglary, accusation of (Hofmann) 429 BiiRNANN, burning and poisoning with phos- phorus .... 475 Burnett, diagnosis and prognosis of mental diseases .... 181 Burns, death from (Langendorft*) . 131 — do. (Niemann) . 436 — opium in nervous symptoms from (Toler) 151 — during life and after death, difference of (Chambert) . . .433 Burq, new diagnostic sign . 174 Burton, latent pleurisy . . 208 — suppression of urine for eight days ; death 237 Busch(W.) physiological action of chloroform 55 — physiology of digestive organs . 82 — influence of cell system on prisoners 491 Bukhnan', religious revivals and nervous diseases .... 177 Bl'sinkli.t, inflammation of lachrymal gland 3^7 Buys, a cause of death in aged persons (suf- focation by food) . . 230 Buzzell, fu.'tus carried twenty-two months beyond term . . . 337 Cadge, myeloid disease . . 277 — ulceration of cartilages of elbow-joint 289 — resection in synovial disease of knee-joint 292 Caicum, retention of feces in (Boys de Loury) .... 222 Cesarean section . . . 355 Cesarean section (Martin). . 355 — do. (Ashton). . 356 — do. (Barker, Bourgeois, Bull, Meissner, &c.) . . . 356 — do. after mother's death (Bonnet, Boucher, Itizzoli, Wagner) . 356 Csesariotomy, post-mortem (Budd) 299 Cailleuse. See Oirard de Cailleuse. Calcaneus, fractures of (Legouest) . 286 Calcium, sulphuret of, in tinea capitis (Ma- lagot) . . . .249 Calculi (urinary, 8fc.) . . 316 Calculi, lectures on (Beale) . 99 — cystic (Fabre) . . .236 — urinary, chemical analysis, &c. (Heller) 96 — do. do. (Nunneley) 96 — do prevention of (Crichton) 319 — do. early diagnosis for (Thompson) 318 — do. early lithotrity for . 417 — do. lithotomy (Heyfelder) . 317 — do. cases in Norwich hospital, 1858-9 (Williams) . .317 — do. enormous (Browne, Hamilton) 316 — do. fourteen, in bladder (Price) 317 — do. in female bladder (Canton) 320 — do. do. (Hunter) 320 — do. do. (Atkinson, Bardv, Hunter) . . .378 — do. mixed with teeth, &c. (Brodie and Lawrence) . . . 316 — do. simulation of (Faber) . 466 — See Lithotomy, Liihotrity. —biliary, in digestive tube (Bourdon) 224 — do. through abdominal parietes (Siry) 236 — renal, in children (Gmelin) . 399 — salivary, in new-born child (Cloquet) 83 — of nasal fossa; (Verneuil) . 206 — ejected from tonsil (Bryant) . 297 — phosphate, on hairs in female bladder (Hall) .... 310 Callus, formation of (Flourens) . _ 17 Caxmeil, relation of alcoholism to insanity509 1NDKX. Calomel, use of, in hydrophobia (Ligget) 162 Cameron (C. A.) Philosophy of food 55 — sources of the nitrogen of plants 114 Cancella, poisoning by arum maeulatum 459 Cancer, anatomical diagnosis of (Woodward) 133 — degeneration of vein and nerves in (VVest- hoff) . . . .134 — metamorphosis of, into mucus (Braune) 133 — palliative treatment of (Hunt) . 279 — curability of (Arnott, Buez) . 279 — excision of tongue for . . 297 — of thyroid gland (Lotzbeck) . 279 — of axilla, secondary (Woodward) 133 — of the breast (Collis, Fergusson) 379 — of the stomach (Brinton) . 223 — do. (Orton) . 225 — of bladder (Luke, Watson) . 316 — of female bladder (Watson) . 377 — cystic (Braune) . . . 133 — uterine .... 366 — of uterus, alveolar (Bristowe) . 366 — do. obliteration of ureters from (Gauchet) . . .236 — of cervix uteri; amputation (Simpson) 366 — of cystic ovaries, &c. (Bristowe) 371 — of testis (Lawrence) . . 311 — with sarcoma and glandular tumour (Wagner) . . . 133 . — epithelial (Hutchinson) . 254 — do. (do.) . . 279 — do. of larynx (Alderson) 300 — do. of pharynx (Jones) 302 — do. of bladder and kidney (Clarke) 235 — do. of female genitals (Hutchinson) 375 — do. of labium (Ward) . 375 — do. of pudendum (M'Clintock) 376 — villous, of bladder (Hirschsprung) 234 Cancerous ulceration of oesophagus(M'Coinbie) 222 Cancerous stricture of oesophagus (Marshall) 298 Cancroid growths with mucous cvsts (Hill- roth) . 134 Cancroid, flattened epithelial, of skin(Forster) 223 — cylindrical epithelial, of stomach (Forster) 223 Cancrum oris (Cleveland) . . 223 Candy, puerperal convulsions . 384 Cannabis indica in tetanus (Morton) 152 Canton (E), arrest of development in inferior maxillary bone . . 18 — Parasitic ova on conjunctiva of turtle 111 — Chronic alcoholism . . . 153 — atrophy and degeneration of arteries 188 Canton (E.) dislocation of sternal end of clavicle forwards . . . 282 — stone in bladder of girls . . 320 — Fleshy caudal prolongation in infant 405 Capelle, lipoma of labia and perinamin 376 Capillaries, pulmonic.dilatation of (Buhl) 204 Capillary blood-vessels in inflammation (Packard) . . . . 34 Cappie, essays on medical science 1 Caeadec, Richelot, &c, obstinate vomiting in pregnancy .... 380 Carbonic acid gas, action on the nervous system (Lallemand) ... 57 Carbonic oxide, poisoning by (Hasse) 464 Cardiac diastole (Bressler) . . 30 — inhibition (Foster) ... 28 — murmurs, alteration through thoracic or- gans (Ringer) .... 32 See Heart. Carduus bened. seeds in melrena, &c. (Loback) 151 Caries of cranium, trephining (Bryant) 294 — of the atlas and axis (Tiingel) . 281 — of the tarsus, amputation, &c. (Thompson) 272 Caeson, on slaughtering cattle . 492 Cartilage, loose, in knee joint (Bloomfield, Fergusson) .... 288 — changes of, in diseases of joints (Weber) 287 Caetee (J. B.) retained placenta . 348 Carter (T. A.) paracentesis abdominis in ascites 231 — do. 302 Cartilage, articular, and bone, tissue between (HuUce) « . . . . 19 — costal, anomalies of, connected with pul- monary diseases (Freund) . . 216 Cartilaginous tissue, chemical constitution of (Friedleben) .... 19 Caetee (E.), obstruction of ileum in twins, 406 Caspeb, handbook of forensic medicine 424 — chemical criterinm in poisoning 436 — new poison nitrobenzid . . 465 See Miischerlich. Castaldi and Fauvel, poisoning by bella- donna 456 Castelnatj, diastase in dyspepsia . 224 Castor oil manufacture at Dinapore (Balfour) 259 Cataract, synthesis of (Richardson) 71 do. 331 — pyramidal (Wilson) . . 331 — in frogs from administration of sugar (Mitchell) 70 Catarrh, local treatment of (Froriep) 218 — (uterine) Schwalbach waters in, (Friek- hoefTer) 368 — vesical, bromide of potassium in (Mein- 234 — do. iodide of potassium in (Meinhard) 414510 rxDKX. Catheterism of air-passages (Green) 20G Cuttle, on slaughtering (Carson) . 492 Caudal prolongation, fleshy, in an infant (Canton) 405 Cautery in urinary totals in females (Habit) 376 Cavasse, fractures of curtilages of larynx 209 Cazin, garlic and lemon-juice in diphtheria 222 Ceely, on preserving vaccine lymph 496 Cell system in prisons, influence of (Busch, Erlenmeyer) .... 491 Cells, theory of (Lasecpie) . . 134 — theory of formation of, from other cells only 3 — animal and vegetative functions 3 — processes in interior of 3 — metamorphoses of 4 — irritation of (Hoppe) . . 189 — diseases from vitiated development of 7 — epithelial, of intestinal mucous membrane as protective organs (Lambl) . 130 Cellular pathology (Fuhrer) . . 189 — do. 200 — do. (Virchow) . 134 — do. 137 Cellulitis, pelvic (Gibb) . . 382 Cellulose, difference from starch (Paycn) 115 Cerebellum, pathology of (Kolleston) ] 61 — serous cysts in (Herard) . . 156 Cerebral disease. See Brain. Cerebro-spinal axis, formation of (Serres) 111 Cerebro-spinal fluid, composition of (Hoppe) 119 Cerium, oxalate of (Mayer) . . 224 — do. (Lee) . . 225 Cervix uteri, during pregnancy (Thomas) 339 — amputation for cancer (Simpson) 366 — follicular disease (Ormerod) . 350 — hypertrophy of (Bertet, Depaul) 365 — do. (Huguier, Martin) . . 365 — inflammation and elongation of (Lefebvrc) 365 — annular laceration (Barker) . 351 — obliteration of (Depaul) . . 353 Cessnee, accusation of murder . 435 Ciiabrely, idiopathic corvza of infants 393 CnADWiCK, address on public health 480 Chalons, peripheral paresis of rheumatic origin ..... 153 CnALUS, coffee in strangulated hernia 305 Chambert, burns during life and after death 433 Champotjillon, hydragogue pills . 234 Chancre (Gamberini) . . . 253 — (Gamberini, Thiry) . . 322 Citapple, sunstroke at Baroda . 158 Charcoal vapour, poisoning by (Siebenhaar) 4454 Charcot, intermittent lameness in oblitera- tion of iliac arteries . . .189 — .do. ... 275 — skin diseases from nerve affections 217 Ciiaiicot and Ball, death from obstructing of pulmonary artery . . . 202 Chaepentiee, waters of St. Amand in ute. rine diseases .... 368 Chaebiees, wine clysters and opium in puerperal hemorrhages . . 350 Chassaignac on curare in tetanus 175 — suppuration of the knee joint . 287 — omental hernia . . . 309 Chatelain, hypnotic properties of sugar candy . 154 Chatin, constitutional iodism . 262 ClTAUSSIT. sycosis or mentogra . 257 Ciiauteau (A.) effects of electricity on the animal organism in instantaneous and con- tinued currents . . 52 Cuabasse, gentian-root in marsh miasma 138 Chavasse (P. H.) advice to a mother 389 Chegoin. See lEevvez de Chegoin. Chemical agents of disease in the living body (Bernard) 62 Chemical analysis, by spectrum observations (Kirchhoff) .... 5 — do. quantitative (Fresenius) . 6 Chemical composition of brain (Lorenz) 10 Chemical physics (Miller) . . 2 — do. (Cooke) . . G Chemical reaction of nerve-substance (Funke) 41 Chemistry, elements of (Galloway, Miller) 2 — in relation to phvsiology and medicine (Day) _ 6 — inorganic (Miller) ... 2 — organic (Miller) ... 2 — animal medical (Teed) . . 4 CnENETiEii, rheumatism of the diaphragm 185 Chesnet, malformation of genital organs,&c. 467 Chest, expansion of the, from exercise (Me Laren) 78 Chest, diseases, &c. of . . . 301 Chest, affections of (Moore) . .205 — do. in early life (Moore) . 206 — do. 393 — acute disease of (Waters) . 206 — penetrating wounds of (Toulmouche) 429 — paracentesis of (Trousseau) . 301 CHETALiEit.danger of Schweinfurt green 44-8 — poisoning by belladonna in coffee 457 — collection of fajcal matters and urine of Paris . . . . . 484 — composition of cosmetics . . 493 Ciieveet. See Lallemcind. Child, connection of chorea and acute rheu- matism ..... 153INDEX. 511 Children, diseases of Report on, by Dr. Graili/ Hewitt .... 386 — diseases of. Report on special therapeutics, by Br. Graily Hewitt . . 420 — diseases of (Bedford) . .302 — do. (Hermig) . . . 387 — do. (Wilks) .... 388 — do. semeiology (Mayr) . . 387 — do. ns influenced by age and sex (Briuiniehe) . . . .387 — paralyses of (Bierbaum, Eulenberg) 391 — surgical diseases of (Forster, Johnson) 264 — mental peculiarities and disordersof(West) 390 — Hygiene, feeding, §c. . . 386 — ill-usage of (Tardieu) . . 427 K— new-born. See Infants. Chinese, medicine of (Hobson) . 259 — leprosy of (Hobson) . . . 248 Chlorine, antidote against inspired (Bolley) 465 — lotions in variola (Eisenmann) . 252 Chloro-anamiia (Eisenmann) . . 197 Chloroform, physiological action of (Busch) 55 — inhalation of (Linhart, &c.) . 261 •— inhalation by one nostril (Faurc) 157 — experiments with (Weber) . 63 ,— a hypnotic (Fonssagrives) . 415 — in strangulated hernia (Brvant) 306 — in itch (Bock) . . .248 ■— in midwifery (Faye, Jeaucourt, Kidd) 359 — do. (Pettigrew, Skinner) 360 — in neuralgia and rheumatism (Little) 151 — in spasmodic contractions (Aran) 152 — in tetanus (Harley) . . 268 — dangers of inhalation of (Behreud) 461 — and ether, comparative danger (Dalton) 258 '— deaths from (Kidd) . . 55 — do. (Linhart) . . 462 do. (Biichner, Kidd) . 463 — do., means of recovery in danger of (Kriedberg) . . . 463 Chlorosis as cause of venous obstruction (Brinton) . . .187 Cholera, facts on (Granelli) . 495 — in Denmark, 1853 (Bricka) . 139 — at St. Jago, 1856 (Hopftus) . 139 — infantilis, 1859 (Roser) . . 225 — protection against (Hitter) . 495 — belladonna in (Lcclerc) . . 225 — brandy injections in (Smith) . 230 — liquor ferri sesquichlorati in (Buch- heister) .... 412 Cholesterinc in sputa (Bicrmer) . 205 Ciiomse. See Schmidt. Chorea (Trousseau) . . 155 — (Moynier, Skoda) 4. . 175 — cases of ... 154 — do. (Evans) . . 153 Chorea, sensitive state of cervical vertebras in (Jansen). . . .152 — urine of (Beale) . . 108 — pathology of (Bond) . . 163 — connection with acute rheumatism (Child) 153 — and acute pericarditis (Hinds) 187 — acute mania following (Banks) . 151 — therapeutics of (Briquet) . 155 — arsenic in (Bonzier-Joly) . 157 — blister to the head in (Moderna) 155 — metallic armatures in (Bouchut) 155 — static electricity in (Debout) . 155 — traumatic electric (Secondi) . 156 Chorio-iritis ; iridectomy (Hildige) 329 Choroid plexus, pathology of (Hiickel) 167 Choroiditis pysemica (Tiingel) . 331 Cjioulant, abortion and murder . 468 Chrastina, scarlet fever . . 402 Chromhidrosis(Le Boyde Mericourt, Maker) 249 — simulated (Duohene) . . 249 Chromocrinia (Le Boyde Mericourt, Gintrac) 249 Chuckerbtjttt, abscess of right kidney 235 CHr/KCn, arsenical water of Whitbcck 445 Churchill (F.) midwifery . 336 Chylous urine (Isaacs) . . 105 — do. (Barry) . . 106 Cicatrization of wounds by carbonic acid (Demarquay) . . . 266 — carbonic acid for hastening . 416 Cinchonine, sulphate of, in ague (Moutard- Martin) . . . 147 — do. in intermittents (Levy) . 139 — do. (do.) . 149 Circulation, outlets of the (Fiihrer) 200 — influence of respiration on . 75 — in health and disease (Marey) . 33 — encephalic (Cappie) . . 1 — See Blood. Circulation, organs of, diseases of. 186 — do. in children 397 — See Blood-vessels. Cirrhosis of the liver (Brinton) . 222 — do. anastomoses in (Sappey) 231 — do. dropsical transudations (Reden- backcr) . . . 236 — of one lung (Mayne) . . 209 Citella, religious melancholy . 182 Civilisation, curiosities of (Wyliter) 2 Clar, anomalies of thymus gland . 301 — do. . 393 — notes on do. (Friedleben) . 394 Clark (Sir James) edition of Combe on infancy . . , ,1 — do. . . 389 Clark (Le Gros) dcligation of common carotid artery . , . 273 — excision of elbow-joint . . 289 — excision of knee-joint . . 291 — comminuted fracture of cranium 294 — fissure in ano . . , 310INDEX. Clark (Lo Gros) consequences of stricture 312 Clakkk (J. L.) structure of nerve-fibre 89 Clakke (Michell) ei>itl»oliul cancer of bladder and kidney . . . 235 — nl)8ccss of ovaries . . 372 — injury of the lioad; serous fluid from ear 293 Claudius, aoardiao monsters . 407 Clavicle, dislocation of acromial end of (Hryant) . . .282 — dislocation of sternal end backwards (Mall) 282 — do. forwards (Canton) 282 — intra-uterine fracture of (Kwen) 283 Clay (John) post-partum detaebment of placenta .... 340 — translation of Kiwiscii on diseases of ovaries .... 371 — on ovariotomy . . . 371 Clemens (T.) bromo-arseniate of potash 248 — membranous inflammation of intestines in cows, &c. . . . 398 — intestinal croup in children . 398 — scarlet fever . . . 402 — electricity as a curative agent . 415 Cleveland (W. F.) ulcerative stomatitis 223 Climate (Barham) . . 259 — influence on sanitary condition of towns (Hennessy) . . . 481 — tropical influence on uterine inflammation (Tilt) . . . .362 — warm, in phthisis (Forget) . 259 Clitoris, enlarged (Bainbridge) . 375 — do. (Browne) . 376 Cloquet (Jules) salivary calculus in a new- born child ... 83 Club-hand (Le Gendre) . . 334 Club-foot (Tuppert) . . 333 Coagulable substance of muscle (Kiihne) 22 Coal-miners, diseases of (Marten) . 490 Coal-tar as a disinfectant (Demeaux, Renault, Vigla) .... 487 Cobbold (T. S.) mammalia . 4 — synopsis of distomidaj . . Ill — on new entozoa . . Ill Coca leaves (Haller) . . .262 CocciUS, glaucoma, &c. . . 330 Coccyx, dislocation of (Bonnafont) 285 Cock, cystic tumours in ischio-rectal fossa 277 Cockle (J.) literature of pathology of heart and great vessels . . 188 Coeliac plexus, functions of (Budge) 44 Coffee, infusion of, for cure of strangulated hernia (Chalus, Conturier) . 305 CofTein, toxicology of (Hoppe) . 455 COG-HLAN, poisoning by corrosive sublimate 451 Cohen (H. M.) artificial premature labour 352 Cohen (J. M.) myodynamics of the heart and blood-vessels . . 30 Cohn, paralysis agitans . .156 — diseases of bronchial glands . 190 — do. . 205 — aneurism of ascending aorta . 203 Coke, boghead, as a disinfectant (Moride) 259 Colchicum, poisoning by (Hartscha) 456 Colchicum wine in rheumatism . 413, Cold, action of, on the organism (Bertulus) 131 — influence of, on the iris (Brown-Sequard) 69 — death by, morbid appearances in (Ogston) 133 Coles, aden or yemen ulcer . 250» Colic, dry, on board men-of-war (Lefevre) 1571 — do. (do) 48* Colic, lead (Gouriet) . . 221 — pathology of (Wade) . . 1711 Colin, development of heat during fasting. and hybernation . . 91: — production of sugar in relation to rcab- sorption of fat . . 91 Colles (W.) popliteal aneurism, compres- sion, &c. . . . 2741 — resection of right lower jaw, &c. 2971 Collis (M. H.) cancer of the breast 379 Collodion, application of (Innhauser) 256 — do. (Strasser) 270' Collongues, dynainoscopy in cerebral! haemorrhage . . . 1722 Coloration, dark, of nerve-centres in white- races (Gubler) . . . 411 Coloration of Vision and of Urine by Pan- tonine (Martini) . . 711 Colouring matter of the bile (Thudichum) 91 Combe (A) management of infancy 1 — do. 389:' Combustion of human body (Tardieu) 427." Compression, phvsiologv, &c., of (Mathieu) 189 — digital in inflammation (Vanzetti) 189 Conception, influence of, during intoxication,. on the child (Demeaux) . . 58- Concretion in the lungs (Scholz) . 206 Concord and discord, phvsical cause of:* (Helmholtz) . .' . 73< Conia and salt, Wundt's experiments with (Kolliker) . . .55 Coniine, poisoning by (Lipowitz, Mitscherlich) 455' Conium maculatum, poisoning by (Beigel) 457 Conjunctiva, granular (Borelli) . 328- — of turtle, parasiticovaon (Canton)lll Connective tissue (Martyn) . 117' Conolly, varieties of insanity; Hanwell 178 Consciousness, loss of, self injury on (Po— marel) ... • • *W Consumption (Timms) . . 205 Contractility, vital, of lungs (Knaut) 811[NDEX. 518 Contractions, idiomuacular (Kolliker, Kiibne, Wundt) . . • „ 23 — idiopathic (Sacro) • .155 — internal, ell'ects in labour (West) 310 — muscular, law of (Bezold, Pfliiger) 54 — do., involuntary rhythmical (Jobert) 25 — painful, metallic armatures in (Bouchtlt) 155 Coxturieb, infusion of coft'ee for cure of strangulated hernia . . 305 Convulsions, salam (AVatson) . 153 — in children, tincture of valerian in (Har- dee) . . • • 421 Convulsions, puerperal . . 382 Convulsions, puerperal (Krassnig). 382 — do. (Liegard) ... . 383 — do. (Johnson, Pirrie) . . 383 ['— do. (Allen, Bonifas, Candy, Gyoux, Hamon, Hardv, Hargis, Hofl'mann, Revmann) 384 — do. apoplectic (Johnson) . 383 — do., from albuminuria (Lee) . 384 — do., epileptic (Corry) . . 384 — do., cured by compression of the carotids (Labalbary) . . .384 — do., chloroform in (Dupau) . 418 — do., ursemic (Madurowitz) . 384 — vertiginous (Giinsburg) . 154 Cooke, chemical physics . . 6 Cooke (M. C.) kukui or kekune oil 259 Cooke (W.) epistaxis ; hoematemesis 187 »Coote (C. T.) perforating tumours of dura mater .... 166 — piarrhsemia with acute diabetes mellitus 198 Coote (H.) congenital dislocations of the hip .... 285 — disease of hip-joint . . 288 — curvature of spine . . 333 — congenital dislocations of the hip 407 Copejiax (E.) obstruction of the bowels 221 — puerperal fever. . . 382 Copper, chronic poisoning by (Oppolzer) 451 Coiibett (J. H.) deglutition of" alimentary fluids .... 83 Cordes, dermic cyst in mediastinum 188 — do. . 206 Coree, acute and chronic albuminuria 231 Corne (E.) See Demeaux. Cornea, conical (Hancock) . 328 do. (Wilson) . 331 — conjunctiva of (Arnold) . 328 Corpus luteum, abnormal (Bokitansky) 361 Corpuscles, terminal, of nerves of sensibility (Krausc) ... 74 Corrioax, aneurism of arch of aorta 188 Corrosive sublimate, poisoning bv (Stadion) 450 — do. (Auer, Cogblan) . . 151 Corry, epileptic puerperal convulsions 384 Corytsart on Brinton's critique of his memoir on the pancreas . 81 CoryzaJ powder for chronic (Monnerat) 209 — idiopathic, of new-born infants (Chabrelv) 393 syphilitic, of infants (Chabrely) 393 Cosmetics . . . . 493 Cosmetics, composition of (Chevallier) 493 Cosmopolitism (non-)of man (Boudin) 2 Coste, hereditary transmission . 112 Costes, urethralgia . . 315 Cottox, iodide of iron in phthisis . 138 — hydrochloric acid in phthisis . 218 Cot imgsi, strangulated oblique inguinal her- nia, &c. . . . . 307 — hernia testis, from struma . 311 — on lithotrity . . .319 Coup de soleil. See Sunstroke. Coursseraxt, on iridectomy . 330 Courtt, hypodermic injection in asthma 208 Cowdell, atropine injections in neuralgia 151 Cow-pox, origin of (Fontan) . 146 Coxalgia in children (Gibert) . 402 Cramp, sempstresses' (Thielmann) . 152 — writer's, cured by electricity (Pitha) 155 — tetanic (Trousseau) . . 165 Cranioclasm (Simpson) . . 356 Cranio-tabes occurring epidemically (Koch) 400 — and rachitis (Hink) . . 400 Craniotomy, Sfv. . . . 356 Craniotomy (Thomas, Tommasi) . 357 — in lingering labour (Nelson; . 351 Cranium, form of the (Retzius) . 2 — caries of (Bryant) . . 294 — fractures of (Weber) . . 294 — do., cases of . . 293 — do. (Hoffmann, Jothner) . 429 — do., exteusive (Holthouse) . 293 — do., comminuted; trephining (Adams) 293 — do. do. (Clark, Gatihey) 294 — fracture of base of (Birkett, Luke, Ody) 293 — do. (Wakley) . . .293 — do. (Schroter) . . . 428 — lesions of, medico-legal view of (Toul- moucbe).... 425 — sinuses of, inflammation of (Pitha) 190 — do. (Pitha) . . . 294 — do. (do.) . . . 427 — syphilitic disease of (Russell) . 162 — do. (do.) . 323 Crayex (R. M.) traumatic aneurism of radial artery; compression, &c. . 274 — injury to head . . . 293 — impassable stricture; urethrotomy 314 Chedk, cicatrix-like streaks in skin of preg- nant women , . . n-jo, 33INDEX. 511. Cbedk, extra-uterine pregnancy . 342 — report, Leipzic Eying-in Hospital 360 — .See Leopold. Cretinism (Theile) . . . 153 Cbeutzeb, on anthrax . . 248 Cbicuton, diphtheria . . 141 — prevention of stone . . 319 Crime, impulse to vice as a motive to (Friedrich) . . • .475 Crisp, eases of diphtheria . . 140 Critciiett, tumour of thigh; hydatids 277 — resection of knee-joint . . 292 — median lithotomy . . 318 Crockett, vesieo-vaginal fistula . 377 Ceoft (It. C.) diagnosis between pregnancy and tumours . . . 339 Croonian lectures on numerical method (Guy) 14 Cbosby, successful ovariotomy . 374 Cboskeey, fevers of the West Indies • 140 — ascites, cure by spontaneous rupture of abdomen . . . 223 Ceoss (R.) obstetric statistics . 360 Cbossman, diseased supra-renal capsules, without bronzed skin . . 234 Croton oil, poisoning by (Smoler) . 458 Croup (Fahrncr) . . . 206 — nature of (Forges) . . 397 — treatment (Isnard) . . 206 — do. (do.) . . 397 — rural use of mercury in (Jones) 205 — tartar emetic in (Ronzier-Joly) 206 — tracheotomy and medication in (Barthez) 212 — tracheotomy in. See Tracheotomy. — laryngeal (Gerhardt) . . 206 — do. (do.) . . 396 — diphtheritic, in a child (Bouvier) 397 — intestinal, of children (Clemens) 398 — and diphtheria, distinction of (Sharkey) 214 Crystallization, nitration of air in reference to (Schroder) . . .126 Cuming-, artificial human milk . 390 Gumming (J. S.) ulceration into trachea 193 Cummins (W. J.) Turkish bath . 247 Curare. See Woorara. Cuelino (T. B.) acute idiopathic tetanus 153 — do. fatal . . .268 — chloroform, curative in cesoph. constric- tion .... 262 — excision of elbow-joint . . 289 — excision of knee-joint . . 291 — do. . . 292 — wound of thyroid cartilage, &c. 299 — Wood's operation for radical cure of hernia 305 — congenital malformations of rectum; operation. . . . 309 — imperforate anus in infant; operation 809 — imperforate anus; operation . 410 CURLING (T. B.) ovariotomy . 37411 Curean, tubercular meningitis . 156 — displacement of stomach; extravasation I of blood on the brain , . 225 — do., &c. . . . . 409 — diaphragmatic hernia . . 304 Cubsham, obstruction of veins of lower ez« I tremities in phthisical patients . 190 Customs officers, waterside, health off I (Mc William) . . . 483.1 Cutaneous system, diseases of . 24wfl — See Skin. Cutler (Edward) lacerated wound of back I of hand; tetanus . . 268 Cutler (Ephraim) variola in the cow from.! vaccine virus . . . 137 — do. . .1)7 Cyanosis, case of (Richardson) . 20411 — do. (Peacock) . . 405 — cardiac (Sturok) . . 408 * — from pulmonic disease (Meyer) . 205 — do. (do.) . 406 Cystalgia, cautery of hvpogastrium inj (Hamon) • . . 175' Cysticerci in brain in childreh(Bouchut)] 3911 Cysticercus cellulosa;, conversion of, into taenia solium (Kiichenmeister) . 224, 2311 Cystine and cystic calculi (Fabre) . 236 Cystotomy for piece of bougie (Simon) 318 Cysts, new growths (Birkett) . 276 — of arachnoid (Brunet) . . 168-1 — of the neck, congenital (Giraldes) 406 — anal (Hyrtl) . . . 249 — do. do. . . .310 — ovarian, composition of contents of (Bo- • deker) .... 118- — See Ovarian Cysts. — acephalo-, of liver (Lemaire) . 236 — do. in mediastinum (Cordes) 188 — dermoid (Lebert) . . 249 — do. (do.) — mucous, with cancroid growths (Billroth) 134 — serous, in cerebellum (Herard) . 156 ■— sanguineous, in arachnoid cavity (Brunet) I 152 Czebmak, laryngoscope . . 205 — do. 217." — do. 298- Da Costa, cerebral neuralgia from serous- apoplexy .... 152 — tubercles of walls of heart . 190 Datil, peritonitis, with perforation (favor-- able) . . . . 225 — strychnine in chronic diarrhoea . 225 Dalton (J.C.) ether and chloroform 258 — air in veins after parturition . 319 Dambbe, legal medicine . . 124- — discretion of practitioners . 466 Daniell. ectopia cordis . . 188 — do. . . 200 — do. . . 108-IXDEX. 515 Dankwortit, tests of milk . -192 Daxyau, ergot of rye in parturition 360 Daxzel, strangulated hernia . 307 — inguinal hernia; operation . 308 Darcy anil Thompson, direct pressure in epistaxis . . . 188 DAitiiACH (B.) aneurism of aorta pressing on trachea; asthma . . 187 — aromatic sulphuric acid in tapeworm 225 — fungus in saccharine urine . 237 Dartn'EEE, syphilis in British army 321 Da Silva Lima, extra-uterine pregnancy 342 Datura stramonium, poisoning hy (Lowen- stein) . . . .457 Daubeny, on sewage . . 485 Dacde, treatment of sudor miliaria 412 DArGUSH, new bread manufacture 491 Davaine, tricocephalns and ascaris lumbri- coides .... 260 Davies (H.) valvular rupture of dilated aorta . . . .190 Davies (R.) neurotomy in painful affections of limbs . . . .157 Davis (J. Hall) double battlecloor placenta 347 — uterine fibro-plastic tumour; enucleation 366 Day (G. E.) physiological and medical che- mistry .... 6 Deaf and dumb, condition of (Kriigelstein) 475 Death from blow on the back, uncertain (Maschka) . . . 434 — mode of, produced by aconite (Harvey) 65 — from anaesthetics, nature of (Kidd) 55 — by cold, morbid appearance in (Ogston) 133 — by being run over (Niemann) . 435 — by submersion (Beau) . . 79 — in animals in a higli temperature, cause of (Bernard) . . 131 Death, sudden and violent . . 432 Death, sudden (Borchard) . . 434 — do. (Laurence)* . . 138 — do. air in blood the cause of (Drever) 188 — do. by gunshot (Tardieu) . 428 — do. in labour (Depaul, Gardner) 348 — voluntary (Des Etangs) . 434 — apparent (Huber) . . 435 — apparent (Parrot) . . 434 Debout, static electricity in chorea 155 Decapitation instruments (Scanzoni) 357 Decomposition of albuminous substances, products of (Erlcnmeyer) . 121 Decrepitude, infantile (Loeschner) . 387 Deebiiey, steel in polyuria . 236 Deformities . . 332 Deformities, on (Tamplin) . . 333 -— of face, division of muscles for cure of (Startin) . . .333 — of scapula (Eulcnberg) , , 334 Degeneration, amyloid, of organs (Harris) 121 — fatty, of the heart (Page) . 190 Deglutition of alimentary fluids (Corbett) 83 Deiteus, scarlet fever . . 402 Delaeond and Bourguignon, itch animal- cules .... 249 Delauue, if addition of bean to wheat -flour detrimental? . . . 492 Deleau, perchloride of iron in spermator- rhoea .... 237 — See Gnrrigou. Deliiaye, strangulated hernia; Seutin's method .... 305 — morbid adhesion of placenta . 318 Delhi sore (Balfour) . . 218 Delioux de Savignac, pulmonary conges- tions . . . . 207 Delirium, hypochondriacal (Mam') 178 — traumaticum, or delirium tremens (Vogler) 434 Delirium tremens (Brinton) . 152 — do. (i)onovan) . 160 — do. (Fox) . . 165 — do. (Franque) . 474 — do. (Marston) . 164 — do. treatment (Dunglison) 164 — do. do. (Morton) 414 — do. treated without stimulants (Alderson) . . .153 — do. digitalis in (Jones) 414 — do. injection of acetate of mor- phia in (Ogle) . . .153 Demakquay, intra-orbital aneurisms 190 — luxation of the hip . . 285 — foreign bodies in orbit . . 326 — cure of prolapsus, uteri by prosthetic apparatus . . . 364 — uterine polypus . . . 368 — and Leconte, cicatrization of wounds by carbonic acid . . . 266 — See Zeissl. Demeaux, influence on the child of concep- tion during intoxication of father 58 — disinfecting charpie . . 486 — and E. Coene, disinfection and dressing of wounds . . . 259 Dementia, paralytic (Baillarger) . 185 Demme (H.) pathology of tetanus. 154 — do. 167 — do. 174 — on counter-irritants in epilepsy . 176 Dental follicles, development of (Magitot) 18 Dentition. See Teeth. Depaul, retention of urine in foetus 347 — sudden death in labour . . 313 — obliteration of cervix uteri . 353 — hypertrophy of cervix uteri, &c. 365 — separation of fibrous uterine polypus by ecraseur .... 366 Depletion, stimulation versus (Eraser) 139 Dermoid cysts (Lebert) . . 249 Derobe, penetrating wound of chest and belly, &c. . . . 304indkx. DUffBABltBAPX^HBSABD, catarrhal Oruhitii at Toulouse . . . 234 Di-hhamps, alimentation daring infancy, . and rnchitism . . . 389 Oi:si"oti:s, rims radic.ms in incontinence of urine ... . . 23(5 Dbb Etangb, voluntary death . VB4 DbbpbSS. See Lerler'c. Dessaueh, plural births . . 315 Dcvanseaux's " irrigatenr obturateur va- ginal" .... 380 Dai ay, causes of disease in our time 259 Development. See Generation . Ill — arrest of, in lower jaw (Canton) 18 Devekgie, psvehiatrik in its legal relations 179 — ehloriodide of mercury . 218 —- perchloride of iron in purpura . 218 — decayed oak-wood in skin a flections 218 — oils from liver of cod, skate, and dog fish 2G0 Devii.liers, shortness and compression of umbilical cord . . . 318 Dextrin and sugar, transformation of starch into, by the saliva (Vintschgau) . 86 Diabetes (Griesinger) . . . 241 — ease of (Willshire) . 235 — connexion with diseases of the eve (Graefe) 331 — treatment of (Roberts) . . 245 — hot-aiy baths in (Swinhoe) . 235 — insipidus (Eade) . . 215 — mellitus (Leubusfiher) . . 2-10 — do. in piarrhremia (Coote) 198 — do. sugar in urine of (Roberts) 10G — do. do. (Ringer) 103 — do. detection by sulphuric acid (M'Ghie) 9G Diaphragm, rheumatism of (Chenevier) 185 — congenital deficiency of (Curran) 225 do. (Curran) . . 409 Diarrhcea, statistics of (Gauster) , 228 — causes of, in certain towns (Greenhow) 495 — treatment (Eisenmann) . . 415 — in children, milk and raw meat-pulp in (Andrien) . . .389 — chronic, strychnine in (Dahl) . 225 Diastase in dyspepsia (Castelnau, Roux^ 224 — do. (Roux) . . .225 Diastole, cardiac (Bressler) . 30 Dicenta, seminal losses . . 235 Dickinson (YV. H.) aneurism of aorta; burst externally • • 188 — disease* of kidney, with albuminuria, tubular or intertubular . . 212 Diday, syphilitic aphonia . . 207 Didot, results of Van Huevel's "forceps- scie" • . . .357 DlENSTL, bronchial dilatation, &C . 190 Dietetics, manual of (Moleschott) . 82 Dieulafot, benign fungus of testis 311 82 si K.1 82: 221 :<97- lll! 2211 9.i 1 11! J 1(1 1 Hi 4941 Digestion, on (Brucke) — do. (Harley) — imperfect (Leared) . . 222 — influence of nervous system on (Zengerlu) 38 — of albuminous substances (Meissner) DiffetHve system Digestive organs, physiology of (Buscli) 82 TJir/esiive organs, diseases of diseases of, in children Digitalis in delirium tremens (Jones) — in pneumonia (Millet) . — do. (Traube) — action on the extirpated heart (Kulenberg) Dilatation of pulmonic capillaries (Buhl) 201 — of the stomach (Billiet) . sii Dill, turning, in contracted pelvis 855 Diphtheria (Barton) . . 223 — (Crichton) — (Crisp) .... — (Gibb) . . . .205 — (Greenhow) — (Hartung) . . . 137 — (Ogle) ^ . . . .259 — epidemic of (Forman) . — in the metropolis, report (Gull). — in English counties, report on (Anderson,! Greenhow) . . . 49t — in Victoria, 1859 (Haddon) . 139 — from infection (Michel) . . 137 — treatment of (Gendron) . 147 — do. by garlic and lemon-juice (Ca /.in) 222 — do. by ice (Grand-Boulogne) 223 — do. by nitrate of silver (Hauner) 111 — do. by perchloride of iron (Anbrnn) 151 — do. do. (Isnard) 20G — nervous lesions in relation to (Hinds) 156 — and croup, distinction of (Sharkey) Diphtheritic paralysis (Maingault) — do. (Reynolds). — sore throat (Sanderson) Diplopia in a child, commencing (Gouriet) Discord and concord, physical (Helmholtz) ... 7 Disease, study of, bysynthesis (Bichardson) 15 — causation and prevention of (Parkin'! 177 — modern causes of (Devuy) . 259 — ultimate causes of (Lea) . 133 — chemical agents of, in the living body (Bernard) ... 62 — periodicity of (Hughes) . 1 U) — hot and cold stages of (Studley) l"> — duration and hcreditariness of (Hoppe) 337 — exacerbation of (Studley) . 15 — acute, on Dr. Todd's views on (SvniomU) 133 21 I ].-,s 171 paralvfl . 154 " cause oU 73 iINDEX. 51? ttiseases, simulated . • <w6 Disease, possibility of artificial production of symptoms of . . 0 Disinfectants in medicine (Henry) 259 — coal-tar, &c. (Velpeau) . 270 !—coal-tar (Yigla) • • 187 — spirol (Kuehenmeister) . 187 Disinfecting powder (l)emeaux, Velpeau) 486 — do. (Renault) . 487 Disinfection . . . 483 Dislocations . . . 280 Dislocations of upper extremity . 284 f— of atlas (Tiingel) . . 281 — of sternal end of clavicle forwards (Canton) 282 do. backwards (Mall) 282 — of acromial end of clavicle (Bryant) 2S2 — upright, of shoulder (Middeldorpff) 284 — of shoulder-joint (Steiger) . 284 — axillary (Thaden) . . 283 i— of elbow, compound (Flower) . 285 — of elbow-joint (Hoppe) . 284 — of head of radius (Michon) . 284 ■ \— of the heart (Spring) . .189 •— of the coccyx (Bonnafont) . 285 — of the hip (Bryant, Demarquay) 285 — congenital, of the hip(Biriibaum) 407 — do. (Coote) 285 — do. (do.) 407 — of humerus (Lotterer) . . 284 — do. -(Buez) . . 285 — do. (Sissons) . . 284 — of patella, outwards (Philipeaux) 285 — of knee-joint, lateral (Holthouse) 285 — of ankle-joint, compound (Stanley) 2G7 do. (do.) 286 .*— of astragalus (Hutchinson) . 2S6 Disse, hydrops ovarii . . 371 I pstomidse, synopsis of (Cobbold) . HI Diuresis, promotion of, by valvular disease of heart (Kiihner) . . 197 Dix, acupressure t*. ligature . 276 D->ig, forceps and perforator compared 358 Doll, injury of the head, and depression of bone .... 428 DONOVAN (O.) on delirium tremens 160 BOB (H.) differences of refraction of the eye . . . .69 Dories', drunkenness . . 476 BORINOBB, Werlhof's blood-spot disease 187 Dounseif, knee and elbow position in mid- wifery . . .359 Dovos and Dbon, syphilis communicated by suckling to nurse . . . 138 — do. do. 322 Dkaoe, extra-uterine pregnancy . 312 Drainage of Glasgow (Garrick) . 481 Dhascjie, herpes in pneumonia . 221 I Dreadnought," cases in (Ward) . 138 Dreaming, abnormal (Fhilippson) . 154 Dreissig vcm:k, twins adherent by thoracic and abdominal surfaces . . 347 Dketee and Kostlin, air in blood cause of sudden deatli . . . 188 Deielsma (A.) seat of the sense of taste 73 Dron. See Doyon. Dropsy, asthenic, tonics in (Sisson) 187 — renal (Basham) . . 239 — Fallopian, perforation of (Ulrich) 369 — of Fallopian tubes (Simpson) . 370 — ovarian (Simpson) . . 372 — do. (Disse) . . 371 — do. See Ovarian cysts. — of uterus, reproduced; iodine injection (Parant) . . . .367 Drowning, death by (Beau) . 79 do. (do.) . 434 Droit, foetal auscultation . 339 — obliteration of canal of small intestine 406 — eradication of domestic pestilence 481 Drunkards, inosite in muscles of (Valentiner) 26 Drunkenness (Dorien) . . . 476 Di BREUiLir, ergot of rye in parturition * 360 Duuuartre (P.) water absorbed by external organs of plants . . 114 Duchene, simulated chromidrosis 249 Duchesne, ataxis loeom. trice progressive 159 Duchesne Duparc, fucus vesiculates, in obesity' . 139 — on skin diseases . . 255 Dv/claux, spmal congestion during harvest of 1859 ... 154 Ductus arteriosus, open (Hare, Sanders) 406 — absence of (Peacock) . . 405 — thrombosis of (Rauchfuss) . 397 Dvfor, obstinate vomiting in pregnancy 380 Dcigan, fissure of the anus . 310 DrLAUHiER, haemorrhages of spinal cord 154 DttmenUj, atrophy of the hypoglossal, facial aud spinal nerves . . 47 Dumont-Palliee, pulmonary venous em- bolia—gangrene of one lobe . 190 Duuur (A.) on rumination . 86 Dunax, triple pregnanoiea . 31(! Duncalfe (H.) gonorrheal and syphilitic rheumatism . . . Ill — do. . . . . 323 — chronic bronchitis . . 205 Duncan (J.) paralysis of bronchial muscles 213 Duncan (J. M.) uterine leucorrlaea of old women .... 3G7 Dungeison, treatment of delirium tremens 164 — insanity in United States . 17s Duparque, retention of urine in fcetus 316 Dupley, galoping tuberculosis of testicle 2351NDKX. 518 Dui'ONT and Limbourg, contagiousness of secondary syphilis . . 322 Dura mater, hematoma of (Weber) 161 — chronic inflammation of (Forster) 154 — perforating tumours of (Coote) ICO — syphilitic gummy tumour of (Uoth) 152 do. (do.) 323 Durand-Fardel, mineral waters in phthisis 208 Durham (A. E.) physiology of sleep 43 — hermaphroditism . . 06 — do 405 — peculiarities of genital organs and mammas in a male . . . 405 — mobility of kidneys . . 247 Dr/KOT. See Lallemand. Dure, ileus from intestinal obstruction 222 do. 228 — do. 303 — gutta-percha splints . . 286 Dttsch, thrombosis of cerebral sinuses 203 Dutchen, red line in gums a sign of tu- bercle .... 218 Duval, primary acute endocarditis 190 — hydrotherapy appliances in epilepsy 156 Dwellings, sanitary condition of . 480 Dwellings of labouring classes (Baring, Becker) . . .481 — unhealthy, shortening of life from (Spring) 481 Dynamoscopy in cerebral hcemorrhage (Col- longues) . . . 172 Dyscrasice in cliildren Dysentery (Ayres) — epidemic (Piedvache) . — do. (Trousseau) — do., belladonna in (Leclerc) — do., in Kirchheim, 1859 (Hanff) 225 — and cholera infantilis, 1859 (Roser) 225 — tropical (Whittingham) — paralytic form of (Roser) Dysmenorrhcea, apiol for (Delorme Dyspepsia (Nicolas) — and phlegmasia dolens (Inman — treatment (Beau) — diastase in (Castelnau, Roux) — do. (Roux) — wine enemata in (Innhauser) Dyspnoea, a cause of congestion (Smith) — in pneumonia (Oppolzer) Dystocia from ovarian tumour (Noeggerath) 315 — volume of thorax, as cause of (Jacquemier) 317 Fade, diabetes insipidus, &c. . 215 Ear, diseases of (Toynbee) • 331 — diseases of middle (Kramer) . 331 — diagnostic tube for (Kramer) . 334 225 225 233 231 224 233 228 418 186 413 224 225 224 of lungs 215 219 Ear, surgery of , Ear, surgery of (Krhard) . . 334 — do. (Troltsch) . . 33-i — extraction of foreign bodies from (Billroth) 331 — gangrenous intertrigo of (Bokainy) 103 — serous discharge through, from a fall, (Tatum) 282 — do. in fracture of skull (Clarke, Ody, Wakley) 293 — temperature of, after division of the sym- pathetic (Voit) . . . .38 Eaenshaw, aneurism of arch of aorta 186 EaSton, poverty in relation to disease 480 Ebees, hyperesthesia of sense of smell, &c. 466 Ebeesbebgee, poisoning by cyanide of potas- sium 460 Ecchymoses on internal organs (Maschka) 204. Eclampsia nutans (Watson) . . 153 Eclampsia, epileptiform puerperal . 383 — puerperal. See Convulsions (puerperal). Ecraseur, use in cauliflower excrescence of os uteri (Hicks) . . . .366 Ectopia cordis (Daniell) . . 188 — (do.) ... 200 — (do.) . . . 108 Eczema (Hebra) .... 256 ; — of the hands (Guyot) . . 249 — of children (Schuller) . . 248 — do. (do.) . . .403 Eden. See Basslinger Education, physical . . . 191 Edwards (A. M.), surgical means for arrest- ing bleeding .... 276 — Sayre's splint for morbus coxarius 288 — state of lithotomy . . . 317 Edwards (Milne) spontaneous generation in animals 112 Eggs, American use of, in disease . 223 — action of madder on (Joly) . Ill Egvpt, residence for European invalids (Reil) 268 Eheenhatts. See EuUnherg. Eichstedt, procreation, delivery,&c. 336 ElNBEODT, irritation of the heart in relation to pressure of the blood — influence of vagi on the heart's movements in birds . . . . • -|j Eisenmann, chloroaneemia . — chlorine lotions in variola . 252 — oniated colchicum wine in rheumatism 1 113 — diarrhoea, treatment of . . 415 Elasticity of organic tissues (Yolkmaim) 130 Elbow-joint, dislocation of (Hoppe) 284 — do., compound (Flower) . • 285 — excision of (Curling) . • 239 — do. (Cadge, Clark, Erichsen) . 289 — anchylosed, forcible flexion of (Fergnssoa, Lane) , . . • :<3i JINDEX. 519 Elbow-joint, ulceration of cartilage of (Cadge) 289 Electric current, tetanus from interruption of(Pfliiger) .... 53 Electric function of torpedo (Matteucci) 49 Electric phenomena presented by open in- duction circuits (Budge) . . 54 — of muscular contraction (Matteucci, Rad- cliffe) 20 Electric spark, after-images from (Aubert) 72 Electricity, effects on the animal organism (Chauveau) .... 52 — medical uses (Garratt) . . 2 — do. (Erdmann) . . 137 — do. (Clemens) . . 415 — for reproducing the lacteal secretion 378 — writer's cramp cured by (Pitha) 155 — static, in chorea (Debout) . 155 Electrolysis for detecting metallic poisons (Blosam) 443 Electro-magnetism in rheumatism (Trist) 258 Electro-motor power of electric organ torpedo (Matteucci) . Electro-physiology (Garratt) . 2 Electro-therapeutics (Garratt) . 2 Electrotone, physiology of (Bezold) do. (Pfliiger) Elephantiasis (Babington) — Arabum (Nagel) — do. (Hecker) . . . Elliotson, gonorrhceal rheumatism ophthalmia simply urethral Ellis (C.) tubercle, its pathology . Emboli of arteries 247 248 of 50 52 52 255 and 147 134 275 Emboli; spontaneous gangrene (Nelaton) 275 — of the arteries (Mercier) . . 190 — in cerebral arteries (Jenner) . 187 — do 188 — do. (Lebert) . . 187 — in pulmonary arteries (Dienstl) 190 — do. (Paulsen) . . 385 — in pulmonary veins (Dumont-Pallier) 190 Embryo, rudiments of (Serres) . Ill Embryotomy in cases of eclampsia (Hamon) 384 Emmekt (C.) manual of surgery . 264 Emphysema (Bryant) . — position of heart in (Klob) — of lungs (Flint) — do. (Waters) . — do. (Bastian) — do. intra-uterine (Hecker) — in pneumonia (Patruban) . — perineal (Tatum) — do., from puncture of bladder (Erichsen) 316 — of skin (Strauss) . . . 301 Empyema (Watson) . . . 206 — cholesterine in sputa as a sign of (Bienner) 205 — traumatic (Walter) . . . 301 — from pleurisy (Baccelli) . . 207 208 205 282 191 221 283 392 316 Brigbtii 236 293 295 187 187 189 190 493 Ems mineral waters in morbus (Spengler) .... EiisiiANN. See Foissac. Encephalic circulation (Cappie) . 1 Encephalitis, fatal (Savory) . Encephalocele, congenital (Houel) 406 Encephaloid tumour, large congenital, not impeding delivery (Wells) . 406 Enchondroma of fibula and tibia (Poland) 280 — on hard palate (Langenbeck) Endemic diseases . . . Endocarditis (Lebert) . — (Markham) — of right auricle (Wagner) — primary acute (Duval) — in case of rheumatic fever (Raymond) 187 — purulent, of mitral valve (Forster) 200 — rheumatic; hemiplegia (Jenner) 187 Enemata, wine, in dyspepsia (Innhauser) 224 Enteric fever (Wardell) Entozoa, new (Cobbold) Epiblepharon (Amnion) Epicanthus (Ammon) — congenital internal (Sichel) Epidemic and endemic diseases Epidemics (Boudin) Epiglottis, disease of (Gibb) — wound of (Curling) . Epilepsy (Brown-Sequard) — (Bongard) — (Luys) . — symptoms of (Trousseau) — cases of (Russell) — uncommon case of (Paget) — acute (Lecoq) . — intra-cranial tumour (Brown-Sequard) 154 — state of vessels of brain in (Virchow) 156 hereditary transmission of, accidental 327 327 327 205 299 151 155 152 156 150 111 493 478 170 176 164 116 (Brown- 157 (Brown- 156 367 109 (Brown-Sequard) — modification of nutrition of Sequard) . . , — from disordered menstruation Sequard) . . , — do. (do.) — urinary excretion in (Hensen) , — prevention of, by the ligature (Brown Sequard) _ . . ,156 — atropine in (Maresch) . . 157 — hydrotherapy appliances in (Duval) 156 — selinum palustre in (Herpin) . 155 — tracheotomy in (Williams) . 153 — do. (do.) 1 300 — cured by removal of depressed bone from skull (Yeates) . . , 151 Epispadias (Gruber) . . 409 Epistaxis; hoematemesis (Cooke) '. 187 — direct pressure in (Darcy) . 188 Epithelioma (Erichsen) . , 279520 INDEX. Epithelioma, free excision ia . Epithelium of the urinary passage* (Bruok- hardt) . . . «I0 Kitui:.N.\ii:Yj;n, tracheotomy . 306 Ekdmanx, therapeutic use of electricity 137 Erection, KOlliker's hypothesis of (Heine) 180 Ergot of rye in myelitis, &.c. (Brec) 153 — in parturition (Danyauj Dubrcnilh) 360 Eiuiakd, uunil surgery . . 334. Ericusen, science and art of surgery 264 — diagnosis of tumours of breast . 278 — do. 379 — epithelioma . . . 270 — exeision of elbow-joint . . 289 — excision of wrist-joint . . 289 — excision of hip-joint . . 290 — disease of great trochanter . 290 — excision of astragalus . . 292 — diseased tarsus; excision of os calcis 292 — injury to head . . . 293 — cedema of scrotum ; gangrene . 311 — death from rupture of a varicocele 312 — treatment of varicose veins and varicocele 312 — varicocele; Vidal's operation . 312 — perineal emphysema from puncture of bladder ... . .316 — death from lnematuriafromabscess 320 Eblexmeyeb, melancholia transitoria -173 — influence of isolation in imprisonment 491 — and ScnoFFEB, products of decomposition of albuminous substances . 121 Ebpenheck, life of new-born child 470 Erysipelas (Trousseau) . . . 256 — with thrombus in vena; porta) (Malmsten) 139 — of umbilicus of infants, ointment for (Legroux) . . . 421 Erythema (Hardy) . . 256 — epidemic of (Bokamy) . . 403 — nodosum in children (Mayr) . 403 — papillosum of Turkish soldiers (Hubseh) 248 Eseuline, medical properties of (Vicaire) 139 Esjcaecii, resection-splint . 289 EsriUE (Marc d ) variola in Prussia 138 Esse, regulation of hospitals . 481 Ether, nature of deatli from (Kidd) 55 — and chloroform, comparative danger (Dalton) . . .258 — quinic (Grol) . . • 139 — sulphuric, frictions with, in supra-orbital neuralgia (Marchetti) . . 155 Ethnology; form of the skull (Retzius) 2 Eulenbero, pathology of thyroid gland 214 — scoliosis habitualis . . 333 — deformity of scapula . . 334 — essential paralysis of children . 391 — scarlet fever . . 102 El i.i .mjkiiu uud Kiiiu.miai .«, action of di- gitalis on the extirpated heart . 64 — action of solutions of metallic salts on motor-nerves of frog . , 64 Eunuchs, Ethiopian, genital organs of (l'.il- • haw) . . . .06 Evaxs (C. J.) eases of tetanus and chorea 153 Evans (<J.) tracheotomy in croup 212 — do. 200 do. 306 Ewen, intra-uterine fracture of clavicle 283 Exacerbation of diseases (Studley) 1 g Excmo'iis of joints. . . 280 Excisions of joints (Heyfelder) . 280 — statistics of, in 1859 . . 280 — sub-periosteal (Oilier) . . 281 — of upper extremities (Schillbach) 280 — of tongue for cancer .. . 297 — of upper jaw (Fearns) . . 205 — of upper jaw for polypus (Moore) 278 — of right lower jaw (Colles) . 207 — of shoulder-joint (King) . 280 — of elbow-joint (Cadge, Clark, Erichseu) 289 — do. (Curling) . 280 — of wrist-joint (Erichsen) . 280 — of head of femur (Billroth) . 200 — of hip-joint (Bowman, Erichsen, Fergu- son, Fock, Folkar, Price) . 290 200 — do. (Hensser, Hevfelder) . 201 — do. (Heyfelder) . .291 — of knee-joint (Billroth, Cadge, Clark] Critchett, Curling, Fergusson, Can!, Heath, Hensser, King, Qnain, Simon, Solly, South, Symonds, Tapp) . 291-3 — of astragalus (Erichsen) . 202 — of tarsus . . . 292 — of os calcis (Erichsen) . . 292 — in aneurism from anastomosis (PembeiH ton) 274 Excretions, intestinal (Lanibl) . 224 Exercise, expansion of the chest fron (McLaren) ... 73 Exposure and starvation of old man (Krii- gelstein).... 429 Exudations, gases of (Planer) . 10« Eve, focal power and adjustment of (Jones) 70 — oscillatory movements of (Lawson) 327 — differences of refraction of (Dor) 69 — fluorescence of the media of (Hegnauld) * 69 1 — non-existence of posterior chamber in (Rouget) . • 69 1 — diseases of (Winther) . — congenital malignant disease of (HuluieM :n7 Jifie, surgery of the Eye, protrusion of one (Gordon) . 152 — case of congenital cancer of (Hulme I — blows on (Walton) . . BMINDEX. Byelids, smooth muscles ut' (Midler) 69 — atonic ptosis of (Siehel) . 327 granular (Sichel) 328 436 166 370 363 by of 'abek, toxieologieal fragments simulation of stone ASIAN, poisoning by green papers 448 ABBE (AO cystine and cystic calculi 236 cocal matters, transformation into manure 484 do. (Chevallier) 484 icces, retention of, in large intestines (Boys de Loury) . . . 222 — green, in children (Betz) . 398 n rxer, anatomical lesions of brain 15-1 croup .... 206 AIYke (E.), abolition, after death, of the properties of nerves and muscles of frogs 24 alck, action of santonin . 260 allopian tubes, appendages of (Rokitanskv) 361 fuitatiou in. See Pregnancy {Tubal) 'allopian lubes, diseases of 370 allopian tubes, dropsy of (Simpson) 370 peritonitis from inflammation of (Fiirster) 232 — do. Fallok, dropsy of scarlet fever . 402 Fano, electrization of uterns PABBAGE, idiopathic tetanus, treated Indian hemp . . . 153 do. 267 Faiuje (P. J.), hamiaturia from disease kidneys . . . 235 — ccdema of glottis in case of jaundice 298 — chronic svphilitic larvngitis; tracheotomy 300 — poisoning by eating lemons . 459 Fasoli, oxide of iron in arsenical poisoning 446 Fasting, development of heat during (Colin) 91 Fat. production of sugar in relation to re- absorption of (Colin) . . 91 — quantity of, in milk (Fliiekiger) 92 Fatty encroachment on kidney (Godard) 246 F.yuke and Beuaud, inhalation of chloroform by one nostril . . . 157 Falvel. See Castaldi. Favus (Pirrie) . . . 254 Fate, on syphilisation . . 325 — obstetric pathology . . 352 — death after chloroform in labour 359 — puerperal fever . . . . 381 — Hebra and Lindwukm, influence of mercurial treatment of parents on their children . . . .138 do. 322 rr. ui.N3, excision of upper jaw . 295 "Feeling .... 74 Feeling in the mouth (Klaatsch) . 73 Feet, fetid perspiration of (Gnffnrd) 250 Fob ling's liquid (Lowenthal) . 107 Feitel, scarlet fever . . 402 Femur, excision of head of (Billroth) 2'JU — do. (Ure) 290 FenGBR, abortive treatment of herpes zoster 218 Fenxek, tracheotomy in croup . 208 — do. . 396 FbEOTTSSON (W.), scirrhus of breast, removal, tetanus - . . 268 — . do. . . 279 — do. . . 379 — cancer of the breast . . . 379 — wound of wrist, tetanus . . 268 — mammary glandular tumour . 278 — do. 379 — loose cartilage in knee-joint . 288 — excision of hip-joint . . 290 — excision of necrosed knee-joint . 292 — fibrous polypus of antrum . 295 — modification of Wood's hernia operation 305 — radical cure of hernia . . 305 — obliterated urethra, &c. . . 314 — forcihle flexion of anchvlosed elbows 334 Ferments, origin of (Pasteur) . 113 Fermentation, filtration of air in reference to (Schroder) . . . . . 126 — in the stomach (Schottin) . 230 Ferner, murder by, under disappointment (Rattinger) .... 476 Fernet (E.) See Marlin-Jlagron. Fever and inflammation (Zimmermann) 134 Fevers of West Indies (Croskery) . 140 — cerebral, in children (Trousseau) 391 — continued, Lnmleian lectures on (Twecdie) 138 — enteric (Wardell) . . 150 — See Typhoid. — intermittent (Traubo) . . 223 — do. epileptoid (Liegey) . 413 — do. sulphate of cinchonine in (Lew) 139 — do. sulphate of cinchonine in ( Levy) 149 — intestinal (Budd) . . in — remittent, adynamic type of ( Brown) 143 — do. gastric, hypophosphates in (Purdou) 223 — rheumatic, with endocarditis (Raymond) 187 — urethral (Heurteloup) . . 16 Fever-heat (Schiff) . . 134 137 Fibres, muscular,- of ventricular portion of heart (Pettigrew) . . 27 — do. of air-vesicles of lungs (Moleschott) 76 — nerve, structure of (Clarke) . 39 — do. do. (Turner) . 39 Fibrinous deposit ion in heart (Richardson) 191 Figg, turning in all cases of labour 354, Filhoi., processes for detection of phosplu rus i 439 I iLiroT. and Jour, analysis of milk from sheep 129INDEX. Finger, development of gas in the blood, &c. 190 — spontaneous luuinorrlmgcs . 199 l-'ingers, hereditary supernumerary (.Johnson) 118 — do. 406 Finkulnbubg, hydropncumatie method of removing refuse of towns, in Turin and Milan .... 187 Finnell, wound in foetus . . . 411 — poisoning by cyanide of potassium 461 FisonEH, syphilitic myositis . 323 Fishes, sensory and motor nerves in (Moreau) 45 Fissure in ano (Clark) . . 310 Fistula?, external gastric (Middeldorpf) 232 — oesophageal (Maclachlan) . 223 — intestino and vesico-vaginal (Simon) 376 — in perina;o (Fergusson) . 314 — recto-vaginal (Naudin) . 399 — do. (Wells) . . 377 — urinarv, in females; cautery (Habit) 376 — vesico-vaginal (Brown) . 376 — do. (Lyon) . . 376 — do. (Partridge) . 376 — do. (Simpson) . 376 — do. operation (Watson) 376 — do. operations (Brown, Marve- jouls, Walton, Watson) . . 377 — do. American treatment (Andrade, Atlee, Follin, Crockett) . 377 — do. instruments for (Hilliard) 376 Fitzgibbon (R. E.), case of man with four nipples .... 113 Flechnee, incendiarism by a lunatic 475 Fleischee, blood or soot ? . 432 Fleming (C.), sero-cystic disease of breast 278 — do. . 379 — plaster of paris or gypsum bandage 286 Flint, on ana?mia . . 190 — pulmonary emphysema . . 208 Floubens, formation of callus . 17 — coloration of bones of foetus by madder 112 Floweb, injuries to right hand; tetanus, recovery . . • 268 — fibro-cellular tumour of scalp . 278 — compound dislocation of elbow 285 — perforation of ileum by piece of bone; peritonitis . . • 302 Flowers, temperature of (Lowe) . 114 FluCKIGEB (F. A.), quantity of fat in milk 92 Flugel, laceration of the heart . 189 — hernia and herniotomy . . 805 Fluids, application of, in mist, to the larynx (Thompson) . . .205 — alimentary, deglutition of (Corbett) 83 Fluorescence of the media of the eye (Reg- nauld) . . . .69 Fock (C.) eases of tracheotomy in croup 395 — resection of hip-joint . . 290 Foebsteb. See Forster. Foetation. See Pregnancy. Foetus, twenty-two months beyond term (Buzzell) . . .337 — spontaneous e vol ution ol'( Hodges, Nugent) 846 — suspended animation of (Thomas) 392 — diagnosis of sex of (Breslau, &c.) 338 — auscultation of (Adams^ . 338 — do. (Druitt) . 339 — extraction of (Tarnier) . 337 Fcettts, diseases of . . . 404 — do. impeding labour 316 — double, excessive development, tyc. 404 — deviations in vascular and respiratory systems .... 405 — malformations, atresia . . 407 Foetus, anencephalous (Anstie) . 408 Foetus, wounds, Sfc. of . , 410- Foetus, injuries of (Krulle) . 410 — wound in (Finnell) . . 411 — retention of urine in (Depaul, Duparque) 346-7 — coloration of bones of, by madder (Flourens) 112 Foissac and Emsmann, relations of meteor- ology to medicine, &c. . . 258 Folkae, excision of hip-joint . 290 Follicles, dental, development of (Magitot) 18 — lenticular (Henle, His) . 94 Follin, American operations for vesico- vaginal fistula . . . 377 Folwabcznt, chemical communications 92 — chemical theory of icterus . 92 Fcwssagbives, artificial illumination of ca- vities of the body by luminous tubes 116 — tartar emetic in phthisis . 216 — chloroform a hypnotic . . 415 Fonta2s", origin of cow-pox . 146 Fontanelle, closure of anterior (Roger) 386 Food, physiological action of . 55 — philosophy of (Cameron) . 55 — in infancy (Deschamps) . 389 — refusal of, in hypochondriacal delirium, (Marce-) . . . .178 Food, adulterations . . 491 Foramen ovale, largely open without cyanosis (Peacock) . . . 405 Foebes, ventilation and heating . 483 Forceps, use of . . 358 Forceps, application of (Briquelot, Doig, j Guenther, Uz6) . .358 — operations with (Martin) . 358 — do. (Reymann) . 358 — in facial presentations (Helly) . 358 " Forceps-scie," Van Huevel's (Didot) 357 Fore-arm, spontaneous amputation of, in utero (Hardy) . . . -ill Foreign bodies . . . 268 Foreign bodies, cases (Rothmund) 2G8523 INDEX. Foreign bodies, searching for, in soft tissues (Anselmier) . . • 268 — detection of • • 416 — extraction of, from ear (Billroth) 334 — in knee-joint (Hamilton) . 288 Fohget, foudrovante sporadic meningitis 154 — aneurism of left succeeding that of right heart . . . . _ 202 — warm climates in phthisis . 259 VOHMAir, epidemic of diphtheria . 144 Formation, progressive and retrograde, influ- ence of nervous system on (Zengerle) 38 Fonsirs, poisoning by nicotine . 457 FoESTEB (A.), hydrorachis . 154 — chronic inflammation of dura mater 154 — stenosis of aorta . . 200 — purulent endocarditis of mitral valve 200 — cylindrical epithelical cancroid of stomach 223 — peritonitis from purulent inflammation of Fallopian tubes . . . 232 — do. 370 — primary carcinoma of the ovary 372 Fobstee (R. C), scarlet fever and tubercu- losis . . . 402 Foestee (J. C), surgical diseases of chil- dren .... 264 Fostee (M.), effects of freezing on physio- logical properties of muscles . 21 — theory of cardiac inhibition . 28 ForcAULT, symphysiotomy . 358 Fountain (E. J.), syrup of phosphates in stomatitis materna . . 225 Foxjeniee, double blowing murmur over base of heart . . . 188 Foville, a paralysis not known . 154 Fowlee (R.), medical vocabulary . 3 Fox (E. L.), delirium tremens . 165 — traumatic tetanus . . 268 Fox (John), spontaneous cure of ovarian tumour .... 372 Fox (Tilbury), phlegmasia dolens . 385 — pathological lesion of phlegmasia dolens 385 Foy, hematic capsules . . 234 Fractures and dislocations . . 280 Fractures, treatment (Pitha, Rabi, Weber) 280 — of bones (Gurlt) . . 280 — of long bones, irreducibility (Gosselin) 280 — united, forcible bending in (Wagner) 280 — rebreaking and resetting of . 41G — intra-uterine (Brodhurst) . 333 — in children (Guersant) ■ . 400 — of cranium (Adams, Holthouse, Wakley, &c.) .... 293 — do., cases of . . 293 — do., comminuted (Gaffney, Clark) 294 — of base of cranium (Schroter) . 428 — of cartilages of larynx (Cavasse) 299 — of fifth and sixth cervical vertebra) (Breithaupt) . . .281 Fractures, intra-uterine, of the clavicle (Ewen) .... 283 — of the scapula (Skcy) . . 283 — do. compound (Solly) 284 — of forearm (Lorinser) . . 285 — of ribs (Keig) . . .281 — do. (Bryant) . . 282 — do. (Tatum) . . 282 — of rib, death from haemorrhage after (Turner) . . .282 — of second rib (Bastian) . . 283 — of tibia (Smith) . . 285 — of calcaneus (Legouest) . 286 France, medical constitution of, 1860 260 — hydrophobia in (Tardieu) . 138 Feankenhausee, funic souffle, compression, &c. . . . 338 Frankfort, report on medical administration, &c. of . . . .480 Fbankland, composition of air from Mont Blanc .... 123 — See Hofmann. Feanque (A. von), puerperal epidemic at Wurzburg . . . 381 — delirium tremens . . 474 Feappiee (L. P.), mechanical influence of respiration on the circulation . 75 Feasee, stimulation versus depletion 139 — infantile mortality in cities and towns, 480 Freckles of pregnancy, lotion for (Hardy) ' 419 Freezing, effects of, on the muscles (Foster) 21 — death by (Blosfield) . . 434 Feemx (E.), production of gum in vege- tables . . . . 115 — green colouring matter of leaves 115 Feencu, case of hydrophobia . 153 Feesenius, quantitative chemical analysis 6 Feetjnd, connection of pulmonary diseases with anomalies of costal cartilages 216 — connection of lung affections and rib-car- tilage anomalies . . . 393 Feet (H.), histology and histo-ehemistrv 1 Feickhoefpee, mineral waters of Sehwal- bach in uterine catarrh . . 368 FeickhOper, gunshot wound . 430 — case of child-murder . . 470 Feiedbeeg (H.), innervation of nose by transplantation 47 — struma cystica . , 242 — recovery by faradization of phrenic nerves in chloroform asphyxia . . 261 — do. . 403 — congenital closure of the anus . 410 Feiedleben (A.), chemical constitution of cartilaginous tissue . . iy — on thymic asthma . , 393 — notes on ' Clar,' on anomalies of thymus 391 h eiedeeich, percussion and auscultation 26052 l lXUKX. FEiEDttiiUii, impulse to viee us 11 motive to crime .... 475 — on abortion . . . 468 Fbitscue, miilpraxis of obstetric prao- tittoners .... 466 Feitz, floating kidneys . . 23G r'ltODSUAM, biniodide of mercury in goitre 235 Feoehde (A.), alhuminotia substances 115 Frogs, abolition of properties of nerves and muscles of, after death (Faivre) . 2-1 — vitality of spermatozoa of (Mantegazza) 11] Feo.MMAJ>>", hemorrhagic variola . 138 — argyria with deposits of silver in intes- tines .... 161 Feoniiullee, soporific property of Indian hemp . . . . ■ 172 FuoiiiEP, local treatment of catarrh 218 Fey (J. W.), congenital hydrocephalus 406 Fucus vesicularis in obesity (Duchesne-Du- pare) . . . .139 Fuhkeh, outlets of the circulation, &e. 189 — do. do. 200 FuiLtK, sulphate of zinc and belladonna in hooping-cough . . . 214 — do. ... 395 Fumigations in asthma (Grand-Marais) 155 — of lungs (Matthews) . . 208 Fungus in saccharine u riue (Darrach) 237 — benign, of testis (Dieulafoy) 311 Funis umbilicalis, presentation of (Brandeis) 359 — souffle of, and compression (Franken- hauser) . . . .338 — shortness and compression (Devilliers) 348 Funke (O.), chemical reaction of nerve-sub- stance .... 41 I'ue> ell, chronic hepatitis; abscess; recoverv 235 FiiENTEATT, statistics of lying-in hospital at Gratz . . . .361 Furuncles of face, sudden death from (Tryde) 254 < IjLFFAED, fetid perspiration of feet 250 Gafeney, comminuted fracture of the skull 294 Gaillaed, prolapsus of uterus . 364 Gaied>-eb (W. T.), clinical notes . 137 — distinction of typhus and typhoid fever 148 — on pericarditis . . • 193 — hospital cases of pneumonia . 211 — laryngeal phthisis; tracheotomy 300 — infantile mortality. . • 388 — infantile death-rates . . 478 Galassi, fibrinous broncho-pneumonia 219 Gallaed, spontaneous peri-uterine heemato- cele . . . .369 Gallavabdin, mortality in pneumonia 218 CJalloway, first step in chemistry 2 Gallstones (Trousseau; . . 235 — through abdominal purifies (Hinton) 223 Gallwey, sanguineous meningeal eftufon 151 Galvanic current (IJaierlacher) . 415 — constant, its centripetal action on nerve (Heniak) ' . . 50 — continuous, in neuralgia (Lobb) 152 Gamheejni, iodide of ammonium in syphilis 138 — chancre .... 253 — do. . . . . 322 Gamoee, unwholesome meat . 492 Ganglia, spinal, influence of, on nutrition of posterior roots of spinal nerves (Bosss) 45 — beneath annular ligament (Paget) 277 — of the intestines (Manz) . 41 — See Plexus. Gangrene .... 267 Gangrene of brain (Baillarger) . 154 — pulmonary (Dienstl) . . 190 — of one lobe of lung (Dumont-Pallier) 190 — of intestine (Voss) . . 22y — spontaneous; emboli (Nelaton) 275 — traumatic spreading (Handysidc) 267 — hospital (Groh) . . .267 Ganstee, statistics of re-vaccination 139 Gant, excision of knee-joint . 292 Gabdkee (A. K.), sudden death in labour 348 Garlic and lemon-juice in diphtheria (Cazin) 222 Gabeatt, electro-physiology and thera- peutics . . . .2 Gaeeett, irritative congestion of windpipe, 205 Gaeeick, drainage of Glasgow 481 Gas, leakage of (Spencer) . . 481 — explosions of, in mines (Housselle.Keckeis) 490 — development of, in the blood (Finger) 190 Gaskell (S.), provision for insane in labour- ing and middle classes . . 178 Gastric juice, analysis of . .84 — artificial, solubility of albumen by (Hiiue- feld) .... 85 Gastrotomy, successful (Bell) . 302 — in cancer of pharynx, Ac. (Jones) 302 Gauchet, obliteration of ureters from cancer of uterus . . • 236 — uva ursi in tedious labour . 360 GAUPP, acute yellow atrophy of liver 236 Gausteb, statistics of diarrhoea . 228 Gay (J.) aspects of medical science 2 Geebds, rare nerve a flection . 153 Gendeox, treatment of diphtheria U7 Generation and development . Ill Generation, spontaneous (Pasteur) 112, 118 — do., in animals (Edwards) 112INDEX. :>:>.-> Generation, genilo-urinarg system 96 — Genito-urinary Organs . 311 Generation, organs of (male), peculiarities of (Durham) • • • 405 — do. of Ethiopianeunuehs(Bilharz)96 Generation, organs of (female), anatomy and j>hysiology . • • 361 Generation," organs of (female), injuries to (Niemann) . . , -166 — do. diseases of (Acton) . 321 — do. nitrate of silver in diseases of (Segalas) . . . 242 Generation, organs of, disorders of, in children .... 399 — do. external, diseases . 375 Generation, organs of, external, defective formation (Gosehler) . .409 Genito-spinal centre of sympathetic nerve (Budge) . . . .38 Genoutille, grave essential icterus 241 Gentian-root in marsh miasma (Chabasse) 138 Geoghegax, idiopathic glossitis . 225 Geography, medical (Boudin) . 478 — do. (Seitz) . 240 Geruabdt, the heart's movements 30 — larvngeal croup . . 206 — do. . . 396 — larvngoscope . . . 206 — "do. . . . 298 — percussion sound of the lungs, differences, sitting qr lying . . . 217 Geriiardt, Trattbe, &c, pathology of the heart .... 188 Geblach (A. C.) mental faculties of animals and man.... 38 Gibb (G. D.) value of sanguinaria Canadensis as a remedy ... 59 do. . 141 — saccharine fermentation in female breast, and its influence on the child . 93 — the laryngoscope . . 116 — atheromatous expression . 196 — disease of the throat, diphtheria, &c. 205 — virgin uterus, with bony tumour at fundus 366 — pelvic cellulitis . . . 382 Gibert, infectibilitv of secondary syphilis 143 — secondary syphilitic inoculation in lupus 249 — coxalgia in children . . 402 Gigxac, shaking the body and taxis in hernia . . . .• 307 Gilbert. See Lawes. Gh.max. See lied: Gixtrap, on curare in tetanus . 175 — do. . . .267 — chromocrinia . . . 219 — hypertrophic lupus . . 258 Gfordaxo, puerperal fever, Turin . 381 Gikaldes, congenital cystof the neck 406 Gib ABC de Cailleusk. monstrosity, genus "Xyphodyme" . . . 404 GrRAi'D-TnuLox, the ophthalmoscope — moral responsibility of hysterical persons 476 GiRinvoorj, phlebitis in syphilitic patients 275 Gland tissue, new formation of (Wagner) 134 Glands, bronchial, diseases of (Colin) 190 — do. do. 205 — shut, or follicles (His) . 94 — See Lymphatic, Parotid, Thymus, Thyroid. Glanders-poisoning inhuman subject (Hirsch- sprung) . . . .248 Glasgow, drainage of (Garrick) . 481 — sanitaria for poor of (Macleod) . 481 — sanitary condition of low parts (M'GiU, Watson) .... 481 Glasscutters of Baccarat, diseases of (Pu- tegnat) .... 489 Glaucoma, cases . . . 329 — (Wilde) . . .329 — acute (Hancock, Hulke) . 329, 830 — inflammation (Coccius) . . 330 — division of ciliary muscle in (Hancock, Rouse) . . . . 329-330 — iridectomy in (Coursserant, Hildige, Teale, Wilde) . . .330 Glossary of scientific terms (Henry) 3 Glossitis, idiopathic (Geoghegan) . 225 Glottis, cedema of (Bergh) . 215 — do. (Lahadie) . 207 — do. (Leudet) . 207 — do. (Farre, Page, Pitman, Sloane) .... 298 — scalds of (Sloane) . . 209 — do. oedema (Sloane) . 29S Glotee, chlorate of potash for detection of poisons .... 441 Glucogene. See Glycogene. Gluge, " moustre amorphc" . 409 Glycerine (Zeissl) . . . 248 — analytic application of (Kletzinsky) 430 Glycerole of lead . . . 262 Glycogene of the liver (Bernard) . 88 — do. sugar from (Berthelot) 88 — in organs of herbivora (^Sanson) 123 — influence of alimentation on (Sanson) 123 Gmelin, renal calculi in children . 399 Goblet, kawa, or ava root. . 259 Godabd (E.) fatty encroachment on kidney 246 Goitre, biniodide of mercury in (I'Yodsham) 235 — exophthalmic (Trousseau) . 156 Goldsciimidt, fungosities of uterus 369 Goldsmith, uterine polypus . 368 Gonorrhoea, and abscess of prostate (Pitman) 320 Gonorrheal rheumatism (Duncalfe) 323 Goodbbake, extra-uterine pregnancy, three and a half years ; gastrotomy . ' 342 Goodeve, typhoid fever in India . 137 Gordon (C. A.) sunstroke among soldiers in campaign of 1858 . . issIXDEX. 526 Gordon (C. A.) rheumatism in India 110 — intra-crnninl tumour, softening of brain &c. 152 Gorup-Besanez, nction of ozone on organic compounds . . , 124 Goschler, defective formation of external genitals . . . . 409 Gosselin, irreducibility in fractures of long bones . . . 280 - taxis in strangulated hernia . 306 — retroversion of gravid uterus . 363 Goupil. See Bermttz. Gourbeyre. See Imhert-Goiirbeyre. Gouriet, diplopia in a child, commencing paralysis . . . 154 — lead colic, and glazed vessels . 224 Gout, rheumatic, cerebral symptoms in 156 — suspension of circulation in (Hervez) 187 Goyraud, displacement of ulna over trian- gular cartilage . . . 285 Grace (H.) Fallopian pregnancy . 343 Graefe (A.) influence of excitement of the retina on the visual axes . 72 — connexion of diabetes and diseases of the eye ... 331 Graham, perchloride of iron injection in uterine polypus . . . 368 Grand-Boulogne, ice in diphtheria 223 Grandidier, umbilical haemorrhages in children' . . . . 397 Grand-MaeaiS, fumigations in asthma 155 Granelli, facts on cholera . 495 Grantham, ammonia as a dermic agent in disease . 248 Granulations, epithelial, of arachnoid (Meyer) 159 Granville, obstetric facts and calculations in the metropolis . . 360 Gratiolet (P.) microcephalism in relation to character . . .2 Gray (H.) descriptive and surgical anatomy Green colouring matter of leaves (Fremy) 115 Green, Schweinfurt, danger of (Chevalier) 448 Green, catheterism of air-passages 206 Greenhow, on diphtheria. . 493 —report ondiphtheriain English counties 494 — causes of prevalence of diarrhoea in cer- tain towns . • • '195 Greenock,highmortality in (Wallace) 480 Greenway (II.) iridectomy . 331 GuiiHAUT (N.) vitalcapacity of the lungs 77 Grenseu, report, Dresden Lying-in Hospital 360 Griesinger, protracted cerebral rheumatism 138 — cerebral diseases . . 152 — diabetes.... 241 Griffith and IIenfrey, micrographio dic- tionary . . . .1 Grimshaw, dental surgery . 335 Guoen, apoplexy of the brain, pyaemia 397 Groh hospital gangrene . . 267 — quinic ether, inhalation in ague 1J3 Grol, (juinic etber . . . 139 Grob (t.) sporadic meningitis . 152 Gross, universal melanosis . 137 — ovariotomy . . 372 — and Heiji, monstrosity ; hernia cordis 408 Growths, new, philosophical arrangement of (Wilks) . . . " 8 — transmutation of (Klob) . 131 Gruber (J.) ha;matocele . . 311 — metamorphosis of tissues from use of mercury .... 324 — inversion of bladder with epispadias 409 Guanin in the body (Scherer) . 10 Gubernaculum testis (Rouget) . 96 Gubler (A.) recurrent sensibility a pheno- menon of reflex sensation . 38 — dark coloration of nerve-centres in the white races of mankind . . 41 — paralysis of third nerve . 153 Gv;eneal" de Mussy, pulmonary tuberculosis 205 G HERD AN, genito-historical methods of dis- eases . , . . 424 Gueesant, fractures in children . 400 Guiet, hygiene of the new-born . 390 Guillabert, sea-sickness . . 155 Guillot, hypertrophy of thyroid gland in pregnancy . . . 380 Guitard, vomica cured by iodine inhalations 222 Gull, diphtheria in the metropolis 194 Gulland (A. D.) hydatid tumour and abscess in liver . . . 234 Gum, production of, in vegetables (Fremy) 115 GiiNSBURG, vertiginous convulsions 154 Guntheh, bloody operations on pelvis, belly, and chest . . . 266 — rectification of head before applying for- ceps .... 358 Guntneh, abscesses, in mediastinum 220 Gurbigou and Deleau, diseases of nervous centres .... 154 Gurlt, railway transport of wounded and siek in war . . . 265 — fractures of bones . . 280 — his plaster-of-paris bandage (Fleming)2S6 Gust. See Simon. Guy (W.A.), Croonian lectures on numerical method .... 14 — on obtaining crusts of arsenic, &c 1J3 Guyon, fibrous tumour of uterus . 366 Guyot, eczema of the hands . 249 — on testing wine . . 492 Gymnastic exercises as a cure . J16 Gyoux, eclampsia during labour, meningitisINDEX. 527 223 311 233 368 167 233 232 231 369 369 369 161 430 Haake. See Breslau. Habebsiion, hydatid disease . 134 — peritonitis Habit, fibrous polypus of uterus . — urinary fistula? in females; cautery 376 Hackee, pathology of choroid plexus Haddon, diphtheria in Victoria, 1859 139 Hematemesis (Cooke) . . 187 — (Jones) — (Trousseau) — alum and ice in (Ricci) — do. (do.) Hematocele (Gruber) ■— degenerated spontaneous (Poland) 311 — peri-uterine (Braun) — do. (M'Clintock) . 369 — do. spontaneous (Gallard) — retro-uterine (Voisin) . Hajmatoma of dura mater (Weber) Hamiatosine test (Kletzinsky) Hamaturia from abscess; death (Erichsen) 320 — from disease of kidneys (Farre) 235 Hemin crystals, legal import of (Biichner) 431 Haemoptysis, prognosis of (Moore) 206 Haemorrhage, spontaneous (Finger) 199 — surgical means for arresting (Edwards) 276 — larch bark in (O'Ferrall) . 187 — after fracture of a rib ; death . 282 — cerebral dynamoscopy in (Collongues) 172 — of spinal cord (Dulaurier) . 154 — into pericardium (Davies) . 190 — death from, in enlargement of spleen and liver (Jackson) . . . 237 — cutaneous (Hebra) . . 255 — neuropathic (Parrot) . . 191 .— do. do. . . 249 — umbilical, after birth (O'Connor) 397 — do. in children (Grandidier) . 397 — uterine, concealed accidental (Hicks, James, Lowes) . . . 349 — do. at term (Armstrong) . 348 — do. crystal of alum for (Cole) . 418 — do. in case of eclampsia (Hargis) 384 — do. from retained portion of placenta (Ulrich) \ . . 348 — do. post-partum (Thomas) . 349 — do. do. references to cases of . 350 — do. do. ice-water injection in (Spender) 350 — do. do. transfusion of blood in (Martin) 350 — do. wine clysters and opium in (Char- ters) .... 350 Hemorrhoids, nitric acid application (Smith) 310 — scrophularia minor in (Holheck) 225 — blind (Hyrtl) . . . 249 310 Hcemosiatics ... . 276 Haemostatics, compression of arteries 417 Hahn, chronic hydrocephalus; puncture 391 Hailet (H.) traumatic tetanus cured by chloroform . . . 268 Hair, chemical composition of (Baudrimont) 116 — growing from walls of female bladder, &c, (Hall) . . . .378 316 — disease of, in syphilis (Sigmund) 247 — do. do. . 323 Hak, twin births . . . 346 Hakes, inguinal hernia; thrombus 307 Haleobd (G. B.) action and sounds of the heart .... 28 Halisteresis cerea (Breslau) . 344 Hail (A.) statistics of Montreal Lying-in Hospital . . . 361 Hall (Wai.) crystals of phosphate on hairs in female bladder . . 316 — do. do. 378 Hallek, psychiatrik in its legal relations 179 — notes on coca . . . 262 — Meissner's ventilation of nurseries 483 Haller and Klob, pancreatitis . 234 Halledat, retained placenta . 348 Hambt/esin, epidemic of scarlet fever at Namur .... 402 Hamilton (J.) foreign body in knee-joint 288 — Stafford's perforator in stricture of urethra .... 314 — enormous urinary calculus . 316 Hamilton (W. T.) rupture of the heart 193 Hammond (W. A.) new species of upas 67 Hamon, cautery of hypogastrium in cystal- gia , . 175 — eclampsia; embryotomy . 381 Hanbuey (C.) fatal effect'of a bee sting 258 Hancock, disarticulation of hip-joint, fatal, 272 — conical cornea, &c. . . 328 — cases of acute glaucoma . 329 — division of ciliary muscle in glaucoma 329-330 Hand, the human (Meyer) . 25 — muscles of (Aeby) . . 25 Handtside, traumatic spreading gangrenn after compound fracture; recovery 267 Hanef, dysenteric epidemic in Kirchheim. 1859 . . .225 Hanging, attempted (Schmidt) . 434 Hannon, antimoniated hydrogen in pul- monary inflammation . 205 Hansen (C) syphilitic contraction of larynx 205 ' IIaedey (H.) abnormal gestation 313 — special position and the obstetric binder in parturition . . , 3595S&8 INDEX. Hardy (s. L.).puerperal oouvalahnii in seventh month . . 381 — spontaneous amputation of forearm in utero . 411 11 u!dy, relations of animal temperature 131. — treatment of prurigo . . 252 — diseases of the skin . . 254. — erythema . . . . 256 11 a he (C. J.) secretion of milk from right axilla . . . . , 93 — moveahle kidneys . . 238 — concetou's tumours of liver, &o. 289 — malformation of the heart, &c, £06 1 [Aliens, eclampsia at sixth month, uterine haemorrhage, &C. . . 384 Hari.ess (BtJ so-called modes of irritability 38 muscular spasms during desiccation of nerves. . . • . ', 47 — molecular processes . in nerve-substance 48 — vital irritation of the nerves . 51 — influence of the length of an irritated nerve on muscular contraction . 54 Harley (Dr. Geo.), Report on the Institutes of Medicine ... 1 Hahley (Dr.), peculiar disease of osseous tissue in horse . . .20 — on digestion .... . 84 — saccharine functions of the liver 88 — on curare in tetanus . . 175 Harper (C), traumatic tetanus . 268 Harper (P.), ovariotomy . . . 373 Harris (P ), amyloid degeneration of organs 121 — typhlo-enteritis . . 225 Harting, poisoning by phosphorus 440 Hartjiaxn, spinal diseases . 154 — special pathology, &c. . . 222 — encysted tumours ; atheromas . 257 Harttjng, diphtheria . . 137 — citric acid in acute rheumatism 413 — murder or suicide . . 435 Harvey, mode of death produced by aco- nite . . . . • 65 Haschek, injuries of head . 430 — bodily violence to pregnant woman 430 — violation of a child eight months old 470 Hahner, sanguineous laehrymation 327 IlASS.ii,L, crystals of phosphate of lime in urine . > . . 104 Hasse, poisoning by carbonic oxide 461 Hasselt, action of santonin . 260 Hasselt and RiENDERUOFr.toxieo-dynamios of santonine . . 458 Hassing, syphilitic paralysis . 151 Hastings, on tobacco smoking . 259 Hiuff, poisoning by phosphorus paste 440 Haughton, natural constants of healthy urine . . . .96 — do. do. 98 Hatner, nitrate of silver in diphtheria 141 Hawkins (Ciesar), wound of neck, thyroid, ic- 299 — cellular inflammation of neck ; pvicinia 3(k) Hawksley, medical inhaler . 205 Head, circulation of the blood in (Sucquet) 27 • — alopecia of (Wagner) . . 248 — auscultation of (Roger) . 154 — inflammatory affections of (Boss) \Wi Head, injuries, Sfc, of . . 293 Head, iinuries of (Craven, Lunn, King, Erichsen, Clarke) . . 293 — do. (Kalisch) . . . 129 — do. medico-legal views (Haschek, Sieben- haar) .... 430 -• — do. (Niemann) . . . 4351 — fatal, diameter of, at term (Van Pelt) 1 339 ( Heale (J. N.), physiological anatomy of the lungs . \ . 76 i Health. See Sanitary condition Health, public, report on . . 177 Health public, address (Chadwick) 4*0 — officers of, for metropolis, annual report* • 1891 Hearing . . . . 73 ; Heart, anatomy of (Power) . 27 — muscular fibres of ventricular portion (Pettigrew) . . . 27' — movements of (tierhardt) . 30 ' — do. (Berner) . 201 — do. rhythmical, dependence of,. on cardiac ganglia (Budge) . 28 — action of (various authors) . 28 — myo-dynamics of (Cohen) . 30 ' — action and sounds (Halford) . 28 • — sounds of (Markham) . . 28 — normal sounds of (Schafer) . 201 — diastole of (Bressler) . . 30 ' — sound from action of, on the lung (Richardson) . . . 210; — murmurs of, alteration of pitch of, through thoracic organs (Ringer) . 32 — double blowing murmur over base of (Fournier) . . .188 — position in emphysema (Klob) 191 — transposition of (Balder) . 189 — ectopia of (Daniell) . . 200 — do. do. . . 408 — cardiac inhibition (Foster) . 28 - malformation of (Hare) . 106 — do. (Peacock) . _ 405 — do. two cavities only (Bernard) 187 — non-vascular (Hyrtl) — irritation of the, in relation to pressnri of the blood (Einbrodt) . . 28 — action of heat on (Schelske) . : — action of nieotin on (Bouget) . 64 •• — extirpated, action of digitalis on (Eulen- burg) . . . — lymphatic, of batraebia. influence of spinal cord on (Vulpian) . . s — pathology. &c. of (Gerhardt) . 188 37 1 !rXDEX. 529 Heart, literature of pathology of (Cockle) 188 — diseases of (Markham) . 188 — disease of, complex . ■ 188 — aneurism of (Forget) . . 202 — congestion of (Jenner) . 204 — fatty degeneration of (Page) . 190 — fetty metamorphosis of tissue of (Wagner) 189 — fibrinous deposition in (Richardson) 191 — hernia of (Gross) . . 108 — simple hypertrophy of (Baur) . 188 — acute hypertrophy of (Imbert-Gourbeyre) 202 — fibrinous polypi of (Hudson) 188 — disease, rheumatic (Lichtenfels) 189 — primary softening of (Wagner) . 31 — softening of its tissue (do.) . 187 — tubercles of walls of (Da Costa) 190 —- miliary tubercle in muscles of (Reckling- hausen) . . . .188 — valves of, disease (Lebert) . 187 — do. do.' its promotion of diu- resis (Kuhner) . . . 197 — do., acute affections (Markham) 187 — do., aortic, disease (Little) . 187 — dislocation of the (Spring) . 189 — laceration of (Flugel) . . 189 — rupture of (Hamilton) . . 193 — do. (Porter) . . 187 Heat, development of, during fasting and hybernation (Colin) . . 91 — action of, on the organism (Bertulus) 131 do. on the heart (Schelske) 31 — influence of, on the iris (Brown-Scquard) 69 — produced during muscular contraction (Beclard) ... 21 — animal, influence of nervous system on (Zengerle) . . .38 —, fever (Schiff) . . .134 137 Heat-apoplexy (Brougham) . 154 — Sec Sunstroke. Heat-cure in disease ("Wilson) . 248 — Sec Baths. Heath (C.) excision of anchylosed knee 291 Hebra, syphilization . . 138 — do. . 148 — do. . . 325 — atlas of cutaneous diseases . 247 — anomalous pigment of skin . 249 — Milliner's clinic for skin disea^s 249 — skin diseases; cutaneous hannorrhages 255 — eczema .... 256 — acne rosacea and sycosis . 257 — See Faye. Hebrides, non-prevalence of phthisis in (Mor- gan) .... 216 Heckeb, elephantiasis, or lepra Arabica 255 — congenital syphilis . . 322 — extra-uterine pregnancy , 340 Hecker, intra-utcrine emphysema of lungs 392 Heel, grazing of; tetanus (Macmurdo) 268 Hegelmater (F.) respiratory movements in compression of the brain . 82 Heibenhain (R.) answer to Pfliiger 38 — See PJtiiger. Hbtm. See Gross. Hein (R.) regeneration of resected bone9 230 — chronic inflammation of joints . 287 Heine (J.) on strictures of the vessels 189 Heikrich, spontaneous hydrophobia 156 Heisch, arsenic eaters of Styria . 61 Heise, diseases of workmen in brickfields 487 Heiss, childbed fever . . 381 Hellebore (Schroff) . . 259 — (do.) . . . 456 Heller (F.) urinary calculi, their analysis, diagnosis, &c. . . .96 — and Kletzinskt, analysis of blood-stains 432 — do. stomach of Herr v. Bruck 436 — do. analysis of tea for poison 443 — do. chemical analysis of abor- tion powders, &c. . . 468 Hellt, face presentations . . 346 — forceps in facial presentations . 358 Helmholtz (H.) physical cause of concord and discord ... 73 Hematic capsules (Foy) . . 234 Hemicrania, morphia injections in (Barton) 153 Hemiplegia, softening of brain, &c. (Jenner) 153 — from rheumatic endocarditis (do.) 187 — double transverse (Baker) . 153 — rheumatic (Bourdon) . . 156 — syphilitic (Munk) . . 152 — ' do. (do.) . . 323 Hemp, Indian, soporific property (Fron- muller) .... 172 — in idiopathic tetanus (Farrage) 153 do. (do.) 267 Hempel (Chr.) rumination in man 85 — malum senile in joints . . 288 Henfret. See Griffith. Henke, text book of legal medicine 423 Henle, lenticular follicles and lymphatic glands . . . .94 Hennessy, influence of climate on sanitary condition of towns . ' . 481 Hennig (C.) perforation and cephalotripsy 357 — diseases of children . . 387 — tuberculosis of bronchial glands 393 — See Breslau. 34580 INDEX. Heneiette, tracheotomy in croup 396 Henry (Alex.) scientilic glossary . 3 — history of medicine . . 258 Henry (O.) disinfectnnts in medicine 259 Hensen (V.) urinary excretion in epilepsy 109 Hexsser (F.) resection of knee- and hip- joints, &e. . . . 291 Hepatic ahscess punctured externally 234 Hepatitis, chronic; ahscess; recovery (Fur- nell) . . . .235 Herard, serous cysts in cerehellum ; loss of co-ordination of limbs . . 156 Hereditary transmission (Coste) . 112 — do., of accidental epilepsy (Brown. Sequard) . . .116 Herrmann, acute peritonitis . 224 Herrmann (Max.; influence of dilution of blood on secretion of urine . 216 — do. do. . 261 Hermann (Jos.) advantages of mercurial treatment . . . 321 — epidemics of puerperal fever at Berne 382 — diseases of quicksilver miners of Idria 490 Hermaphroditism (Durham) . 96 — (do.) . . 405 — spurious (Wells) . 405 Hernia .... 304 Hernia, remarkable cases (Ulrich). 307 — rupture of sac; death (Adams) 307 — operations for 417 ~* radical cure (Morton) . . 304 — do.; Wutzer and Wood's operations 304 — do. do. (Curling, Fergusson, Lee, &c.) 305 — strangulated (Danzell . . 307 — do. (Rouse) . 306 — do., by concretion; peritonitis (Patri) 308 — do., in an infant (Luke) . 307 — do., shaking the body in (Gignac) 307 — do., reduction of (Jessop) . 307 — do., operation for (Maisonneuve) 305 — do., constipation after operation (Bryant) * 306 — do., taxis in (Gosselin) . . 306 — do., Seutin's method (Delhaye) . 305 — do., chloroform in (Bryant) . 306 — do., infusion of coffee for cure of (Chains, Conturier) . . . .305 — do., simulated (Lame) . . 278 — diaphragmatic (Bohn) . .207 — do. (Bohn, Cnrran) . 304 —! umbilical, containing uterus (Leotaud) 381 — inguinal (Manee, Roux) . 303 — do. (Thompson) . . 304 — do., in a woman (Ffuhn) . 308 — do., operation (Danzel) . 308 — do., strangulated (Thompson) 308 Hernia, inguinal, strangulated oblique (Coul. son) . . . .307 — do.,obstruction of intestine with (Roux) 222 — do. do. (do.) . 228 — do., thrombus (Hakes) . 807 — do., of omentum, &c. (Hewett) 307 — crural, strangulated (Jobert, Manee) 309 3"9 — do., rare varieties (Legendre) . — femoral, strangulated (Thompson) 808 — of cajcum and appendix (Manee) — cordis (Gross) . . . 408 — of foramen ovale (Wagner) . 309 — of obturator foramen (Rapp) . 309 — of the liver, congenital (Meadows) 409 — of omentum (Derobe) . — do. (Chassaignac) — of testis (Coulson) Hernial sac, rupture of jejunum from kick 803 305 307 304 309 311 253 277 112 on (Luke) Herniotomy (Flugel) — radical cure (Hcinish) . . 308 Herpes in pneumonia (Drasche) . 221 — of tongue (Bergouhnioux) . 224 — gutturalis (Mottet) , . 249 — tonsurans . . . 403 — zoster, abortive treatment of (Fenger) 248 — do. on head (Trauhe) . 249 Herpin, selinum palustre in epilepsy 155 Hertez de Ciiegoin, suspension of circula- tion in gout . . .187 Heschl, cutaneous horns , — do. — defect of brain, and hydrocephalus 403 Heterogeneity (Joly) Heurteloup, nervous syncope and urethral fever .... 46 Heustis, belladonna as an antaphroiisiac 157 Hewett (P.) inguinal hernia of omentum and large intestine . . 307 Hewitt (Dr. Graily) report on midwifery and diseases of women and children 336 — report on special therapeutics {midwifery and diseases of women and children) 4ir — study of midwifery . . 837 — hydatidiform degeneration of ovum 3 IS — fibrous tdinour of uterus . 36G — fibro-evstic growth expelled from uterus I 36S — malignant disease of ovary . 372 Hetfelder, simultaneous double amputa- tions . . . .270' — study of resections . . c ! — statistics of resections of hip-joint 291 — exarticulation of lower jaw . 296_ — vesical calculi, and lithotomy 31/581 INDEX. Heymanx, tuberculous lepra . 219 Hicks (B.) extra-uterine f'cotation 312 — concealed accidental uterine hemorrhage 319 — version in abnormal labour . 351 — cauliflower excrescence of os uteri; ecra- Beur .... 36G Hicguet, diurnal pollutions; contraction of meatus urinarius, &c. . 237 Hildige; chorio-iritis; iridectomy 329 — iridectomy in glaucoma . 330 — amaurosis in pregnancy . 332 — hysterical amaurosis . . 332 Hill, tubercular meningitis . 154 — do. . 166 Hilles, essentials of physiology . 1 Hilliabd, instruments for vesico-vaginal fis- tula .... 376 Hillieb, report [on vaccination] in St. Pancras .... 495 Hilton, lectures on pain, &c. . 265 — gunshot injury to femoral vessels 273 — fibro-plastic tumour over spermatic cord 277 — fibrous tumours of lobule of the ear 27S Hinds, nervous lesions, in relation to diph- theria . . . .156 — narcotics in incipient insanity 178 — chorea and acute pericarditis . 187 Hink, congenital rachitis, cranio-tabes, &c. 400 Hinton (Jos.) gall-stone through abdominal parietes .... 223 — traumatic tetanus . . 268 Hip-joint, dislocation of (Bryant,Demarquay) 285 — do., fatal (Hancock) 272 -— do., congenital (Bimbaivm) 407 — do., do. (Coote) . 407 — disease of (do.) . 288 — do. (Bowman, Fergusson, Price) 290 — affections as result of uterine affections (Hoppc) . . .367 — chronic inflammation of (Schleiss) 288 — See Amputation. — excision of (Fergusson, Folkar) . 290 — do. (Bowman, Erichsen, Fock, Fer- gusson, Price, Hensser, Hevfelder) 290 — do. (Hensser, Heyfelder) 291 Hippocrates, on vision . . 326 Hirschsprung, villous cancer of bladder, &c. • 234 — and Moore, glanders-poisoning in human subject .... 248 His (II.) thymus gland . . 94 — anatomy of shut glands or follicles- 94 Histo-chernistry (Frey) . ] Histology (do.) . . 1 — human (Morel) . . 1 — pathological (Woodward) . 133 Hobakt, double monster . . 404 Hobson, leprosy of Chinese . 24S — medicine in China . . 259 Hodges, spontaneous evolution of fcetus 346 — vaccination; incubation one year 403 Hceser (H.) history of medicine; syphilis 321 IIoffbafer, prevalence of suicide 471 Hoffmann, plica Polonica in insane 250 Hoffmann, eclampsia parturientium 384 Hoffmann, cases in legal medicine 429 — poisoning by phosphorus . 438 — separation of arsenic from antimony 444 Hofmanx, obstetric statistics; Munich 360 Hofmann, accusation of burglary 429 — poisoning by arsenic . . 436 — child-murder . . . 470 — qualified murder . . 475 — question of responsibilitv in case of theft 476 — responsibility of murderer prompted by excessive love . . . 476 Hofmann and Frankland, arsenic in per- chloride of iron . . . 486 HortL, report, Halle Lving-in-Hospital 360 Holmes (T.) preparation of tubal gestation; third membrane . . 343 — tumour of testicle from a child. 400 — fibro-nucleated do. . . 400 — Littre's operation for artificial anus 410 Holsbeck, diseases of printers . 138 — scrophularia minor in haemorrhoids 225 Holt (B.) injury to jejunum ; rupture and peritonitis . . . 303 — on Allarton's operation for stone 318 HoLTnousE (C.) lateral dislocation of knee- joint .... 285 — fracture of skull, &c. . . 293 Home sickness . . '476 HoNlsn, herniotomy ; radical cure 808 Hood (C.) conditions of blood in mania (with analysis of the cases) , 34 do. . 185 Hoogeweg. See Keber. Hooper, accumulated menstrual fluid, &c. 364 Hooping-cough (Moeller, Skoda, Wanne- broucq) . . . . 395 — treatment of (Hochstecker, &c.) 421 — epidemic in Mentone (Bottini) . 207 — producing emphysema pulmonum (Betz) 395 — sulphate of zinc and belladonna in . 214 — do. (Fuller) 395 — vaccination in . . . 258 261 HoiTFts, cholera morbus at St. Jago, 1856 139 HoppE (F.) polarizing properties and pro- ducts of bile-substances , , 91532 INDEX. HorPE (F.) constituents of milk, and their decomposition ... 92 — composition of cerebrospinal fluid 119 — Ungt. Cup. Oxvdi in pnin of testis 237 — dislocation of elbow-joint . 281 — apparatus for contracted knees . 333 — duration and licreditariness of diseases 337 Hotte (J.) vascular or cell-irritation 189 — hip-joint all'ections, as result of uterine affections . . . 367 — toxicology of Coflein . . 455 Hciitixo. See Isnard. Horns, cutaneous (Heschl) . 255 — do. 277 Horse, unusual disease of osseous tissue in (Harley, Varnell) . . 20 Hospitals and public buildings, sanitary con- dition .... 4-81 Hospitals, regulation of (Esse) . 481 — arrangement of (Oppert) . 482 — ventilation of (Bohm, Vernois). 482 — purification of air in (Abegg) . 487 — convalescents in (Adshead) . 483 — at Hamburg, reports (Thiingel) 202 — of Munich (Adam) . . 259 — Imperial, of Vienna, report for 1858 148 — lying-in, statistics of . . 360-1 — for children, reports (Berend, Luzsinskv, Stiebel, Wildberger, &c.) . 390 — for insane. See Lunatic asylums. Hot and cold stages of diseases (Studley) 15 Houel, congenital encephalocele . 406 Houslet, bronzed skin . . 235 HorssELLE, suffocation in the gas of mines 490 Howitz, air in peritoneal cavity . 230 II oyer, structure of nasal mucous membrane 74 HiiBBENET (C.) pathology of syphilis 321 Htjbeb, apparent death . . 435 Hunscii, erythema papillosum of Turkish soldiers .... 248 Hudson (A.) fibrinous polypi of the heart 188 — aneurism of thoracic aorta . 190 Hughes (R.) generation of nerve-force 37 — influence of belladonna on pneumogastric nerve .... 60 — contraction and dilatation of the pupil by- opium and belladonna . . 60 — use and abuse of mercury . 139 — periodicity of disease . . 149 — influence of belladonna . . 164 UrouiER, hypertrophic elongation of neck of uterus . . . 365 Htlke (Mr. J. W.) report on surgery 261 — report on special therapeutics {surgery) 416 Hulke (J. W.) tiis.Mic between articular car- tilage and bone . . ]g Hui.ke, glaucoma; surgical treatment 329, 330 Hri.ME (E. 0.) congenital cancer of eyeball 332 — do. 407 Human race, non-cosmopolitism of (Boudin) 2 — hybridity in (Broea) . . 2 Humerus, dislocation of (Lotterer, Sissons) 284- — upright dislocation of (Middeldorplf) 284 Hunefeld (F.) solubility of albumen by ar- tificial gastric juice . . 85 Hunt (T.) action of medicines . 55 — palliative treatment of cancer . 279 HuNTBB (J.) calculi in female bladder 320 — do. . 378 Hunter's doctrine of retroversion of gravid uterus (Smith) . . .362 Husband (W.) on preserving vaccine lymph 2 do. 496 Huseiiann, poisoning by cyanide of potas- sium .... 461 Hrss, ovarian tumour . . 372 Hussey, epidemic smallpox in Oxford 138 Hutchinson, vital capacity of lungs 78 Hutchinson (Jon.) death from abscess in brain, from otorrho;a . . 153 — rodent ulcer — do. ; — epithelial cancer — do. — do. of female genitals — dislocations of astragalus — iritis in syphilitic infants — do. — cases of extra-uterine fcetation full period Hutin, female sterility 253: 279 • 254 i 279" 375 i 256; 328 I 403 beyond I ' 3!0 362! Hutton, cystic growth of lower jaw 297 ' Hybernation, development of heat duri (Colin) .... Hybridity in human species (Broca) 2 Hydatid cyst in pelvis (Quain) . 277 Hydatid disease (Habershon) . 131 Hydatid tumours, tabular report of 258 — do. (Gulland) . 231 — do. of liver (Budd) — do. paracentesis 235 Hydatids, thirty-three cases . 277 — of liver (Boinet) — from tumour of thigh (Critchett) 277 Hydragogue pills (Champouillon) Hydrargyrosis (Overbeck) Hydriatrics, advances in, in 1859 Hydrocephalus ; puncture; death (Paget) 156 — congenital (Bostock, Fry) . 406 '— chronic (Hahn) . 391 — do. (Lund) . . . 391 91 210 243' 231 IS533 INDKX. Hydrocephalus, chronic, compression and puucture in (Roux) . . 391 Hydrochloric acid in membranous angina (Servent) . . . 221 — in phthisis (Cotton) . . 218 Hydrogen, peroxide of, properties of '(Richardson) ... 62 — antimoniated, inhalation of, in pulmonary inflammation (Hannon) . . 205 Hydronephrosis, from cancer of uterus (Gauchet) . . .236 Hydrophobia, case of (French) . 153 — in France (Tardieu) . . 138 — successful use of calomel in (Ligget) 162 — spontaneous (Heinrich) . 156 — symptomatic (Oppolzer) . 156 Hydrops articuli, injection of iodine for (Schuh) .... 288 Hydrops ovarii. See Ovarian dropsy. Hydrorachis (Forster) . . 154. Hydrotherapy in spermatorrhoea (Tartivel) 237 Hydruria, periodical (Scanzoni) . 367 Hygiene, jmblio, report on, by Dr. J. B. Sanderson . . . 423,477 Hygiene, industrial and administrative (Vernois) . . . 477 Hyoscyamiu in the body (Moller) . 434 Hypera;inia of spinal cord from exertion (Plagge). . . .153 Hyperoxidation, congenital, of blood (Bar- kow) .... 81 Hypertrophy of papilhe (Oilier) . 248 — of thyroid gland in pregnancy (Guillot) 380 — of breast (Manec) . . 379 — of mammary gland (Lotzbeck) . 278 — do. (do.) . 379 — acute, of heart (Imbert-Gourbeyre) 202 — of clitoris and nymphas (Browne) 376 Hypnotic properties of sugar-candy (Chate- lain) .... 154 Hypnotism (Azan) . . 2 — (Jane) . . . .260 262 Hypochondriasis, puerperal (Simpson) 384 Hypodermic injection in asthma (Courty) 208 Hypogastrium, cautery of, in cystalgia (Hamon). . . .175 Hypophosphates in gastric remittent fever (Purdon). . . .223 Hypophosphites in phthisis (Quain) 211 Hypospadias (Chesnet) . . 467 — divorce case (Schneider) . 467 Hypoxanthin, elementary analysis of 10 — in the body (Scherer) . . 10 Hykti., non- vascular hearts . 37 — origin of the lacteals . . 95 — blood-vessels of thyroid gland . 95 — anal cysts, and blind haemorrhoids 249 — do. . 310 — increase of primitive aortic brandies 406 Hysteria (Beau) . . 367 Hysteria (Briquet). . . 367 — and religious revivals . . 179 — aggravated (Purdon) . . 151 — transformations of (Nicolle) . 156 Hysterical phenomena (Licgeois) . 156 — cutaneous ana;sthesia (Voisin) . 176 — paroxysm, arrest by chloroform (Briquet) 418 — paraplegia (Rustegho) . . 177 Hysterical persons, responsibility of (Giraud- Teulon) . . . .476 — do. (Le grand du Saulle) . 476 Hysterotomy (Meadows) . . 365 Ice in diphtheria (Grand-Boulogne) 223 Ice and alum in hamiatemesis (Ricci) 223 — do. do. 231 Icterus, chemical theory of (Folwarczny) 92 — in new-born children (Briinniche) 399 — essential hemorrhagic (Monneret) 237 — grave essential (Genouville) . 241 — from steatosis of liver (Rigler) . 235 Idiocy, deficiency of mental power in (Neu- man) .... 476 Idio-somnambulism (Philippson) . 154 Ikin, poisoning by oxalic acid . 438 Ileum, intus-susception into caecum (John- son) .... 223 — perforation of, by piece of bone (Flower) . 302 Ileus from intestinal obstruction from old adhesions (Diirr) . . 222 — do. (do.) . . . 228 — do. (do.) . . .303 Iliac fossa, abscess in (Bouchut) . 222 Illumination, artificial, of cavities of the body by luminous tubes (Fonssagrives) 116 Imbecility, pretended, of an incendiary (Krauss) .... 466 Iaibert-Goubbeyee, acute hypertrophy of the heart . . . 202 — pruritus vulva;, treated by arsenic 250 Immersion and irrigation (Szy raanowski) 270 Impotence and sterility . . 467 Incendiarism by a lunatic (Fleehner) 475 — in emotional derangements (Jessen) 476 — impulse to (Wachsmuth) . 476 — See Arson. India, rheumatism in (Gordon) . 140 — typhoid fever in (Goodeve) . 137 — surgery of campaign in, 1857-8 (Brown) 265 Indigo, as a test for grape aud fruit sugar (Mulder) . . .96 — urine, chemistry and semeiotics of (Klet- zinsky) . . . . qq Inequality of sides of body, congenital (Broca) .... 404 Infants, new-born; senses; external impres- sions • ... 43Infants, new-born; mental condition (Kuss. maul) , ... 48 — do. weight and length of (Siebold) 380 — management of (Combe) . 1 "* do. (do.) 389 — do. (Chavasse) 389 •— feeding of (Houth) . . 389 — hygiene and nourishing of (Gumming, Guict, Le Barillier, May, Wertheimer) 390 -wi diseases of (Le Barillier) . 390 do. (Smith) . . 393 — do. new explanation of (Ballard) 387 — progressive algidity, sclerema, unci decre- pitude of (Loesehner) . . 387 — stillborn (Breisky) . . 392 — mortality of (Bentzen) . . 388 -w do. (Gairdner) . 388 — do. (Routh) . . 889 — do., in cities (Fraser) . 480 — do., in workhouses (Mincliin) 388 — do., in Moscow Foundling Hospital (Blumenthal) . . . 388 — do., birth-rate as affecting (Marshall) 388 — death-rates of (Gairdner) . 478 — new-born, cases of murder of; tests of respiration, &c. (Marklin and others) 469-70 Infanticide . . . 468 Infection from putrid fermentation of ex- crements (Bouchardat) . . 139 —r- disinfectants to prevent ditto . 139 Inflammation, nature of (Cappie) , 1 — Virchow's theory (Bond) . 188 •A' changes in mucous membrane from (Burckhardt) . . .133 -—capillary blood-vessels in (Packard) 34 do. (do.) . 187 — dynamics of (Schleiss) . 189 — from irritation of nerves (Samuel) 200 local, intravascular, metabolic determin- ing actions of (Heine) . . 189 — and fever (Zimmermann) . 134 — treatment of (Lnwson) . . 142 — do. by bloodletting (Beau) 201 — do. by digital compression (Van- zetti) . . . .189 — of joints, chronic (Hein) . 287 — of cranial sinuses (Pitha) . 190 — of dura mater, chronic (Forster) 154 — of the breast (M'Clintock, Nunn) 378 — of liver; iodine enemata in (lnhauser) 236 —■ uterine, influence of tropical climates on (Tilt) • . • . • . . 362 — peri-uterine (Aran) . . 870 Infusoria, intestinal, in man (Malmstein) 225 Inhalation as a means of cure (Vogler) 261 — in pharyngo-laryngeal disease (Sperigler) .... 200 Inhaler, medical (Hawksley) . %Q& Injection or attraction theory (Hoppe) 189 — transparent, in examining pancreas (Tur- ner) 03 Injuries, medico-legal view of (Vogt, Wehle) 430 — bodily, in intoxicated person* (Wistrund) 476 — of head, great vessels and extremities (Niemann) . . . 435-6 Inman, new theory of medicine . 137 — myalgia "and myositis . . 185-6 — condition of muscles in myalgia 186 — dyspepsia and phlegmasia dolens 186 — morning sickness, as a symptom 229 — action of mercury on the liver . 215 Innhauseh, wine enemata in dyspepsia 224 — iodine enemata in inflammation of liver 236 — application of collodion . . 256 — mercurial ointment in peritonitis 415 Inosite in muscles of drunkards (Valentiucr) 26 Insane, provision for, in labouring and middle classes (Gaskell) . . . 178 — lesions of cutaneous sensibility in (Au- zouy) .... 179 — progressive paralysis of (Wood) 181 — management of, in Belgium (Parigot) 178 — do. in Holland . 178 — do. in United States (Dun- glison) . . . .178 — hospitals for. See Lunatic asylums. Insanity, varieties of (C'onolly) . 178 — the mind iu (Krauss) . . 177 — nascent, cases of Cancellor, Kiikwoo.i, Whitworth, &c. . . 478 — communieability of (Baillarger) 177 — hypochondriacal (Baillarger) . 178 — criminal relations of (Roller) . 472 — relation of alcoholism to (Calmeil) 181 — narcotics in incipient (Hinds) . 178 — simulation of (Billed) . . 476 — See Mental disorders; Mania. Intermittent, of one hand and arm 157 Intertrigo, gangrenous, of the ears (Bokamv) 403 Intestinal att'ectious, urojmie (Treitz) 229 — fever (Budd) . . . HI Intestines, ganglions and nerves of (Mauz) 41 — gangrene of (Voss) . . 229, — do. (do.) . . 303 — membranous inflammation of, in cowfk (Clemens) . . . 898 — obliteration of canal of small (Druitt) 406 Intestines, internal ohstructions . 303 Intestines, internal obstruction of (Bunzel, ] Manec, Rons) . • • 303 — do. (Copeman) 221586 Intestines, internal obstruction of, from ad- hesion to uterus (Aklridge) . 223 — do. ileus from (Diirr) 222 — do. (do.) 228 — do. • ' (do.) 303 — do. with inguinal hernia (Roux) 222 — do. . (do.) 228 — in twins from contraction of ileum (Carver) 406 — occlusion above rectum (Pelous) 224 — large, retention of fteces in (Boys de Loury) 222 — strangulated, liberated bv operation (Jsussbaum) . . .224 — tumour of (Knauss) . . 303 — axial twisting of (Bunzel) . 222 — do. (do.) . 303 — ulceration of (Rennie) . . 223 Intoxication, influence of conception during, on the child (Demeaux) . 58 — causing a type of disease . 178 Intus-susception, intestinal (Knauss) 223 — do. (do.) 303 — ileum into erecum (Johnson) . 223 Iodine, administration of, &c. (Rilliet) 262 — use of food containing (Boinet) 390 — injection of, for hydrops articuli (Schuh) 288 — enemata in inflammation of liver (In- hauser) . . .236 — injections in ovarian cysts (Schuh, Wells) 375 — do. in ovarian dropsy (Simpson) 372 — do. in pleural etfusions (Baisle) 207 — do. in dropsy of uterus (Parant) 367 -T- inhalations for vomica (Guitard) 222 — as a disinfectant (Marchal) . 259 261 Iodism (Rilliet) . . . 138 — (Ricord) . . . 146 — constitutional, &c. (Rilliet, &c.) 262 Iridectomy (Greenwav) . . 331 — (Wilde) . . .329 — cases .... 329 — in chorio-iritis (Hildige) . 329 — in glaucoma (Coursserant, Hildige, Teale, Wilde) .... 330 Iris, movements and convexity of (Rouget) 69 — influenceof light, eold,andheaton(Brown- Sequard) . . .69 — puncture of, in inflammation (Tavignot) 830 Iritis, from congenital syphilis . 329 — in syphilitic infants (Hutchinson) 328 — do. (do.) 403 — do. (North) . 404 Iron, cyanide of, in ague . . 259 — iodide of, in phthisis (Cotton) . 138 — magnetic muriate of, arsenic in (Vers- mann) .... 486 — perchloride of, in diphtheria (Aubrun) 151 Iron, perchloride of, in diphtheria (Isnard) 206 - — do., in purpura (Devergie) .248 — do., in spermatorrhoea (Deleau) 237 --- — do., arsenic in (Hofmann, Letheby) 486 — proto-sulphate of, poisonous action (Tourdes) .... 451 — subcarbonate of, in arsenical poisoning (Trapani) . . .225 Irritability, so called modes of (Harless) 38 Irritation, vital, of nerves (Harless) 54 Ievin, inversion of uterus . . 364 Ieving, paralysis of lower extremities 165 Isaacs, chylous or milky urine . 105 Isnaed, croup and membranous angina, &c. 206 — rational treatment of croup . 897 — trucheotomy in croup . . 396 Isnabd, Hoeing, Veiel, &c, application of arsenic . . . 139 Itch animalcules (Delafond) . 249 — sarcoptes of, in man (Robin) . 249 — chloroform in (Bock) . . 248 Jacksch, uraemia . . 244 Jackson, enlargement of spleen and liver) deatli from haemorrhage . 237 — midwifery in the East . 836 Jacobi, indications of kermes . 208 Jacobi (A.) laryngismus stridulus 394 — on dentition . . . 898 — enlargement of infantile liver . 399 Jacobi (J. B.) disease of lips in children 397 Jacquemiee, volume of thorax as cause of dystocia . . . 347 Jacubowitsch (N.) peripheral terminations of the nervous system . . 40 Jaffe, hypnotism or braidism . 260 262 Jamain, rupture of urethra, fracture of pubis, &c. . . 314 — abscess of the eyelids . . 327 James (H.) concealed accidental uterine haemorrhage . . . 349 Jansen, sensitive state of cervical vertebras in chorea . . . 152 Janzee, ease of pemphigus . 249 — artificial premature labour . 353 Jahvis, causes of mental diseases 180 Jaundice, coma, &c. (Moore) . 234 — with ascites (Budd) . . 240 — acute pernicious (Wunderlich) . 213 Jaws, injuries and diseases . 294 Jaws, sero-cystic disease of (Skey) 295 — upper, malignant disease of (Skey) 295 — do., fibrous tumour of (Quain) . 295 — do., fracture of (Salter) . 281 — do., excision of (Fearns) . 295 — lower, arrest of development in (Can- ton) 18 — do., chronic internal abscess (Annandale) 29763 a INDEX. .laws, lower, cystic growth of (Hutum) 297 — do., do. (Paget) . 297 — do., exarticulation of (Heyfelder) 296 — do., fracture of (Tatum) . 282 — do., gunshot wound oi" (Sweet) 290 — do., resection of (Colics) . 297 Jeannel, absorption and assimilation of emulsions of fatty oils, &c. . 130 Jeaccoukt,chloroforminmidwifery 359 Jejunum, injury to, rupture, and peritonitis (Holt) . . .303 — rupture of, from a kick (Luke) 303 Jenkins, detection of strychnine 454 Jennee, hemiplegia, plugging of carotid artery, &c. . . . 153 — embolon in the cerebral arteries; hemi- plegia . . . 187 —: congestion of the heart . 204 — acute and chronic tubercular meningitis 390 — albuminoid infiltration of spleen, &c, in children . . . 399 — lectures on rickets . . 401 Jessen, incendiarism in emotional derange- ments . . . 476 Jessop (W.) reduction of strangulated . hernia . . . . . 307 Jobeet de Laaibaile, involuntary rhyth- mical muscular contraction . 25 — voluntary muscular action . 25 — sciatica . . . 155 — complicated fracture of leg, &c. 281 — crural hernia strangulated . 309 — varicocele . . . 312 Johns, uterine polypi . . 368 Johnson (A.) surgery of childhood 264 — wound of hand from chaff-cutting ma- chine ; tetanus . . 268 — injurious habit in childhood . 387 — imperforate rectum ; Littre's operation 409 Johnson (G.) aneurism of abdominal aorta; erosion of vertebra; . . 187 — intus-susception of ileum into crccum 223 — case of moveable kidney . 234 — primary sore, from secondary syphilis 322 Johnson (H. C.) wound of larynx, &c. 299 Johnson (J. G.) hereditary supernumerary fingers .... 113 — do. . . • 404 — apoplectic puerperal convulsions 383 Johnston (H.) inversion of bladder during pregnancy . . . 315 — do. 352 Joints, diseases of . . 287 Joints, chronic inflammation of (Hein) 287 — malum senile in (Hempel) . 288 — suppuration of; treatment . 417 Joints, injuries of, in children . 400 —I excisions of . . . 289 Joints, false, cure by hair seton (.Tobert) 281 Joints, false, periosteal autoplastic operation in (Jordan) . . . 281 Joey, uctiou of madder on the egg and on teeth .... in — and Musset, heterogeneity . 112 — See Filhol; Ronzier-Joly. Jones (Dr. Handfleld) report on practical medicine, pathology, and therapeutics 133 — report on special therapeutics (Medi- cine) . . .412 — rural use of mercury in croup . 205 — cases of hannateinesis . . 233 Jones (G. M.) digitalis in delirium tremens 414 Jones (James) tumour in abdomen 339 Jones (R.) turning, substitute lor forceps 355 ~M Jones (S.) epithelial cancer of pharynx; gastrotomy . , . 302 — extra-uterine fcetation retained fifteen years .... 342 Jones (Wharton) stereoscopic glasses for single pictures . . .70 — focal power and adjustment of the eye 70 Joedan (P.) modification of Wutzer's radi- cal cure of hernia . . 3051 — talipes equino-varus . . 332- Joedan (J.) periosteal autoplastic operation in false joints . . . 281 Joedan (R. J.) skin diseases . 247 Jothneb, fracture of skull . 429 Jurisprudence (medical). See Medicine {legal). Kakodyl, oxide of (Schmidt) . 415- Kalisch, Prussian scientific commission; medico-legal opinions . . 424 — do. . . 466 — injuries of the head and brain . 429 — cause of death : exposure, starvation, &c. 434 — mistakes of practitioners . 166 — medico-legal cases . . 47" Kalischee (E.) syphilisation . 325 Kangaroo, bile of the (Schlossberger) 129 Karlsbad for diseases of liver(Sorger) 235 Kawa root (Gobley) . . 259 Kebee and Hoogeweg, poisoning bv arsenic 446 Keckeis, gas explosion in Prauziska pit 490 Kehker, cranial presentations with occiput backwards . . . 340 Keio, dislocation of lumbar vertebra;, &c. 2S1 Keilleb, diseases of women; prolapsus 301 Kellee (L. J.) serpiginous ulcers of the skin 143 — do. . 323 — diseases in mirror factories of Bohemia 491 Kellee (Wm.) face presentation . 316INDEX. 537 KENNEDY, typhus and typhoid in Dublin 206 149 230 221 — typhoid pneumonia — intestine in typhoid fever — moveable kidney . • 234 Eerm.es, indications of (Jacobi) . 208 — in pneumonia (Millet) Kekschensteiner, puerperal fever, Munich 381 Kett, mouth-to-mouth method in asphyxia neonatorum . . • 393 Kidd (C.) nature of death from anesthetics 65 — death by chloroform- . . 463 — anaesthetic aid in midwifery . 359 Kidd (G. H.) ovariotomy . 374 Kidneys, connective tissue of (Beer) 245 — floating (Fritz) . .236 — floating saccular (Oppolzer) . 236 — moveable (Durham) . . 247 — do. (Hare) . . 238 — do. (Johnson) . . 234 — do. (Kennedy) . . 234 — contusion of ^Notta) . . 236 — alterations in, after ligature of renal ar- tery (Blessig) . . . 236 Kidneys, diseases of, in children . 399 Kidneys, disease of, hajmaturia from (Farre) 235 — do., tubular or intertubular (Dickinson) 242 — degeneration of (Munk) . 235 — abscess of (Basham) . . 238 — do. (Bristowe) . . 237 — do. (Chuckerbutty) . 235 — amyloid degeneration of (Sauvin) 236 — bacouy degeneration of (Traube) 247 — epithelial cancer of (Clarke) . 235 — dropsy of (Basham) . . 239 — fatty encroachment on (Godard) 246 — hypertrophy of (Schmit) . 409 — fatal steatosis of (Rokitansky) . 237 — chronic tuberculosis of (Trost) . 235 — uric-acid sediment in, of infants (Boehin) 400 King (G. D.) new pelvimeter . 339 King (K.) excision of shoulder-joint 289 — excision of knee joint . . 292 — injury to the head . . 293 — median lithotomy . . 318 Kikby (E. A.) fatal rheumatic pericarditis 193 KntcniiEHG. Sec Maker. Kikchhoff and Bcnsen, chemical analysis by spectrum observation . 5 Kiukbkide (T.) Pennsylvania Hospital for Insane .... 177 KiitKE.-i (W. S.) handbook of physiology 1 Kiestex, induction of premature labour 353 Kiwiscn and Clay, on diseases of the ovaries 371 K DAATSGH and S'flCU, feeling in the mouth, and taste . . Kletzinsky (V.) urine indigo . 96 — lithodialysis . . 242 — glycerine and hamiatosinc . 430 — abortifacients . . . 467 — See Heller. Klob (Jul.) anomalies of the pancreas 94 — transmutation of pathological new growths 134 — position of heart in emphysema 191 — thrombosis of duct of Botal . 202 — hypostatic pneumonia . . 429 — See Haller. Knatjss, intus-susception from intestinal tu- mour .... 223 — do. 303 Knaut (Aem.) vital contractility of lungs after irritation of vagi . . 81 Knees, contracted, apparatus for (Hoppe) 333 — pain in, in inflammation of hip-joint (Schleiss) . . . 288 Knee-joint, dislocation of (Holthouse) 285 — suppuration of (Chassaignac) . 287 — loose cartilage in (Bloomfield, Fergusson) 288 — removal of foreign body from (Hamilton) 288 — excision of (Billroth, Cadge, Clark, Crit- ehett, Curling, Fergusson, Gant, Heath, Hensser, King, Quain, Simon, Solly, South, Symonds, Tapp) . . . 291-2 Knight, congenital absence of uterus, &c. 409 Knode, enormous bronchocele cured 237 Koch, Fowler's solution in pruritus vulva; 250 — cranio-tabes occurring epidemically 400 Koebner (H.) changes of cane sugar in the alimentary canal . . 86 Kohlek, diseases of spinal cord . 173 Koulhardt (C. G.) treatment of pneumonia 220 Kolb, case of perityphlitis . 223 — injurious occupations . . 490 Kolisko, insufficiency of valves of pulmonary artery . . . .189 Kollikeh (A.) human microscopic anatomv "3 — idio-muscular contractions . 24 — on Wundt's experiments with conia and salt . . . .55 — his hypothesis of erection (Heine) 189 Konig, mortal gunshot wound . 430 Konigsberg Poliklinik, report . 220 Kopczynski, plica I'olonica . 250 Kopf, poisoning by phosphorus . 410 Kostein. See Dreyer. K itAMEB, diseases of middle car, &c. 334 Krassnig, eclampsia, puerperal . 382 KitArs, tubal pregnancy . . 343588 Khau8e(\V.) terminal corpuscles of nerves of sensibility ... 71 Kbacss (A.) mind in insanity . 177 — pretended imbecility of an incendiary 466 — do. . 475 — See Knauss. Kbeysee, vaccination, a remedy for syphilis 151 Keugelstein, exposure and starvation 420 — condition of deaf and dumb . 475 Krulle, injuries of the foetus . 410 Kuchensieisteb, conversion of cysticercus cellulose into tenia solium . 224 231 — spirol as a disinfectant . . . 487 Kuchlek, ophthalmic institution report 32G Kuhn, inguinal hernia in a woman 308 Kuhne (VV.) coagulable substance of muscle 22 — chemical irritation of nerves and muscles 22 — irritation of muscles by chemical reagents 23 — muscular twitchings independent of the nerves .... 23 — idio-muscular contractions . 23 Kuhneh, valvular disease of the heart 197 Kuexecke, placenta prsevia succenturiata 347 Kurzak, tannin an antidote to strychnia 454 — poisonous actions of oleander . 457 Kussjiaul (A.) mental condition of new- born child ... 43 — absence, malformation, and doubling of uterus . . . . 3G1 — on superfcetation and super-impregnation 467 Kyphosis osteopathica (Sehreber) . 402 Labadie, oedema of the glottis; tracheotomy; cure . 207 Labaibaby, puerperal eclampsia; compres- sion of the carotids . . 384 Labia, lipoma of (Capelle) . 376 — tumour of (Priestley) . . 375 — recurrent sarcomatous tumours of (Simon) 376 Laboratory, Excise, report on (Phillips) 492 Labobde, amyloid degeneration of spinal cord . . . .152 — incomplete paraplegia, &c, from cysts in brain .... 152 Labobie, Andrieux's case of Cesarean section 356 — thrombus of vulva and vagina . 386 Labour. See Parturition. Labouring classes. See Dwellings of. Lachrymal gland, inflammation of (Businelli) 327 Lachrymal obstructions (Teale) . 327 Lachryination, sanguineous (Hasner) 327 Lacteals, origin of the (Hyrtl) . 95 Ladbeit, lead poisoning by glass dust 452 Lagneau, syphilitic tumours of the tongue 223 — do. . 323 Lallemand and Ciievbet, poisoning by mushrooms . . : 459 Lallemand, Pebbin, and Dubost, action of alcohol, anaesthetics, and carbonic acid gas on the nervous system . . 67 Laiiaue-Picquot, arsenic in apoplectic con- gestion .... 414 Lambl, epithelial cells of intestinal mucous membrane, as protective organs, Sus. 130 — intestinal excretions . . 224 Lameness, intermittent, in obliteration of iliac arteries (Charcot) . . 189 Lajiont and Pextexkofer, infection from surface-water . . . 487 Lakceeeaux, poisoning by mushrooms 459 Lake, forcible flexion of anchylosed elbows 334 Lang, case of perityphlitis . 223 Lange, poisoning by atropine . 456 Langenbeck, surgical pathology of veins 275 — osteoplasty . . . 281 — enchondroma on hard palate, &c. 295 Laxgendobff, consequences of immoderate punishments by parents . . 429 — death by burning . . 434 Lankestee (E.) industrial uses of animals 1 — recent sanitary legislation in metropolis 4S0 Larch bark in hemorrhages (O'Ferrall) 187 Labcheb, intermaxillary bones of man 19 Labne (De) inflamed lymphatic gland 278 Laryngeal speculum. See Laryngoscope. Laryngismus stridulus (Jacobi) . 394 Laryngitis; laryngotoiny (Laurence) 300 — syphilitic (Fane) . .300 — aneurism of aorta simulating (McDowel) 183 Laryngoscope (Czermak) . • 205 — (do.) . • 217 — (do.) . . 298 — (Gerhardt) . . 206 — (do.) . • 298 — (Gibb) . . 116 — (Merkel) . . 206 — (do.) . . 298 — (Tiirck) . 217 LarynRotomv for foreign bodies (Mendel) 0 300 — separation of mucous membrane iu (Pitha) 1 218 ■ — in laryngitis (Laurence) . 300 Larynx, examination of (Tttrck) . 217589 INDEX, Larvnx, application of fluids in mist to (Thompson) . . -205 — catheterism of, value of (liouvier) 397 — diseases of, inhalation in (Spengler) 206 — surgical diseases of (Bryant) . 299 — abscess of (Thin) . . 206 — do. (do.) . . .300 — flint stone in : tracheotomy (Tatum) 800 — fracture of cartilages of (Cavasso) 299 — phthisis of; tracheotomy (Gairdner) 300 — scalds of (Bevan) . . 209 — spasm of (Stiebel) . . 394 — strumous ulceration of, &c. (Bees) 300 — syphilitic contraction of (Hansen) 205 — syphilitic disease of (Wilmot) . 205 _ do. (do.) . 300 — tubage of (Trousseau) . . 206 — vegetations of (Verneuil) . 207 — warty growths in (Budd) . 299 — wound of (Johnson) . . 299 Lasegue, cell theory in pathology 134 Latour, comparative efficacv of vaccine 496 _ Latrines, emptying of, in large towns (Voigt) 487 Laurence (J. Z.) variation in size of com- plementary optical spectra . 69 — sudden death . . .138 — ophthalmic surgery j Utrecht school 332 Lawes, Gilbert and Pdgh, sources of nitrogen of vegetation .' . 114 Law ford, stramonium in hay asthma 214 Lawrence (W.) femoral aneurism, &e. 274 — cystic enlargement of antrum . 294 — syphilis; laryngitis; laryngotomy 300 — cancer of testis . . 311 — calculi mixed with teeth, <Scc. . 316 Lawsox, inflammation and pneumonia 142 — oscillatory movements of eyes . 327 Laycock, correlations of mind and brain 2 Lazerme. See Boaafos. Lazzaretti, forensic medicine . 423 Lea (M. C.) ultimate causes of disease 133 Lead, medication in phthisis (Beau) 207 — snuff containing (Sonnenkalb, AVicke) 452 — saturnine disease . . 258 — do. . . .261 — do. ... . 452 Lead colic (Gouriet) . . 221 Lcad-poiioning, influence on conception (Paul) .... 880 — by glass dust (Ladreit) . . 452 Lead, sugar of, poisoning by . 452 Leased, imperfect digestion . 222 Leaves, green colouring matter of (Fremy) 115 Leaves, temperature of (Lowe) . 114 Le Barillier, hygiene and diseases of childhood . . .390 Lebert, endocarditis, &c. . . 187 — practical medicine . . 222 — dermoid cysts . . . 219 Leclerc and Despres, belladonna in cho- lera, &c. . . • 225 Lecoxie (C.) detection of sugar in the urine 96 — See Demarqtuiy. Lecoq, acute epilepsy . . 156 Ledeher, marasmus in eavlv childhood 386 Lee (C.) oxalate of cerium . 225 Lee (C. A.) inversion of womb . 363 — puerperal convulsions from albuminuria, chloroform . . ■ 384 Lee (H.) radical cure of hernia . 305 — subcutaneous incision in varicocele 312 — boutonniere operation in stricture of \irethra . . . .314 — secondary syphilitic inoculation 822 Lee (B.) tubal gestation . . 842 — clinical midwifery . . 361 — ovarian cysts containing teeth, hair, &c. 371 Lefebvre, inflammation and elongation of cervix uteri . . . 365 Lefevre, dry colic on board men-of-war 157 — cause and prevention of dry colic in ships of war .... 488 Lefort, citrate of magnesia lemonade 260 Lege>'dre, expectant method in pneumonia 207 — rare varieties of crural hernia '. 309 — club-band . . . 334 — and Bastien, atrophy of both testicles 236 Legolest (L.) fractures of calcaneus 286 Le Grand dc Satjxle, treatment of mania 412 — criminal responsibility of hysterical per- sons .... 476 Lehmann (J. C.) acidity of human urine 101 — See Siebenhaar. Leidy (J.) human anatomy . 1 Leishman, obstetric case . . 346 — laceration of perinamm in labour 851 Lemaire, acephalo-cysts of liver 236 Lemonade, citrate of magnesia (Lefort) 260 Lemon juice in diphtheria (Cazin) . 222 Lemons, poisoning by eating (Farre) 459 Lenhossejc, pathology of spinal cord 162 Lenoir, atlas to works on midwifery *337 Lensijcg, tubercular meningitis 891 Lenticular follicles (Henle) . 94 Leonhardi, lobar pneumonia with hydro- cephaloid phenomena . . 207 Leopold, plan for facilitating turning 354INDEX. 5i0 Leopold, uterine pessaries . 304 — nncl Cbede, prolapsus of membranes of ovum . . . 352 Leotaud, hernia umbilicalis containing uterus • . , . . 381 Lepers, hospital for, at Granada (Webster) 250 Lepra, acute, bleeding in (Wiltshire) 248 — Arabica (Hceker) . . 255 — tuberculous (Heymaon) . . 219 Leprosy of the Chinese (Hobson) . 218 Le Roux (F. r.) production of ozone by platina wire heated by electric current 124 Le Roy de Meeicouet, chronihidrosis 249 Lespian, tetanic prodromata arrested 155 Letheby, cliemical reactions of strychnia 454 — empoisonment of Thames with perchlo- ride of iron . . . 486 Letjbtjschek, clinical medicine . 222 — diabetes mellitus . . 240 Leucin in the body in disease (Neukomm) 11 — in the pancreas (Scherer) . 10 Leucocythasmia (Barry) . . 188 — (Jackson) . . .237 — (Shearer) . . . 197 — splenica . . . 237 Leucorrhcea . . . 367 Leucorrhcea, clysters of colocynth for 418 — secale cornutum in (Pockels) . 419 — uterine, of old women (Duncan) 367 Leudet, ulceration and perforation of ap- pendix vermiformis . . 227 — See Boinet. — and Sestiee, cedema of the glottis 207 Leukamiia in children (Loschner) . 399 Leveeett, raw meat as a remedy . 223 Levisecte, disorder of faculty of speaking and writing . . . 171 — plica Polonica . . . 250 Leyison, nervous life of animalcules 37 Levy, sulphate of cinchonine in intermittents in French army . . . 139 — do. 149 Lewes (G. H.) physiology of common life Lewinsky, poisoning by phosphorus 439 L'HdTE, analyses of the "eaux vannes" and the " poudrette " from the voiries of Paris . . . 486 LicnTENFELS, rheumatic heart disease 189 — on percussion . . • 217 — &c , percussion and auscultation 260 Liebeemeistew, production of warmth in animals of a constant temperature 131 Liegaed (A.) puerperal eclampsia . 383 Lieoeois, hysterical phenomena . 156 LifloEY, epileptoid intermittent fever 413 Life, spiritual, aspirations from (MoCormac) 2 Ligaments, atomcity of tissues of (Linhart) _ 334 Ligget, calomel in hydrophobia; successful Light, influence of, on the iris (Brown- Sequard) . . .69 Lightning: can it cure diseases? (Althau*) 152 Lima. See Da Silva. Limann, lung-test in cases of drowning in the newly-born . . 470 Limboueg. See Dupont. Limbs, conservative surgery of (Paul) 264 — effect of loss of, on longevity (Messer) 272 Lime, phosphate of, crystals of, in urine (Hassall) . . . 104 Limping, intermittent (Charcot) . 275 Lindsay, report of Perthshire Lunatic Asy- lum .... 177 Lindwuesi, syphilisation . . 147 — syphilisation, and use of tartar-emetic ointment . . , 325 — See Faye. Linhaet (W.) relaxation; atonicity of liga- mentous tissues . . . 334 — chloroform inhalation, fatal . 261 — death by chloroform . . 462 Lip, lower, malformations of, in a family (Murray) . . . 407 Lips, diseases of, in children (Jacobi) 397 Lipoma of labia and perinajum (Capelle) 376 Lipowitz, poisoning by coniine . 455 Lithodialysis (Ketzinsky) . . 242 Lithotomy .... 317 Lithotomy, state of (Edwards) . 317 — cases of (Rigby) . . 317 — second time (Birkett) . . 317 — third time (Price) . . 317 — inflammation of neck of bladder (lire) 317 — dilating staff (Wood) . . 318 — Allarton's operation (Holt, Ward) 318 — median (Critchett, King, Teale) 318 — rectangular operation (Buchanan) 317 — in a female (Atkinson) . . 320 — do. (Atkinson, Bardy) . 378 — do. (Stanley) . . 320 Liihotrily .... 318 Lithotrity (Birkett) . . 319 — (Coulson) . . 3191 — for small calculus (Thompson) . 319 — without chloroform (Skey) . 319 — disease of bladder, &c, (Thompson) 319 — rupture of renal abscess (Paget) 319 Lithyolysis and lithotrity (Ure) . 319 Litile, chloroform in neuralgia and rheuma- tism > 15i — diseased aortic valves . . 187541 Littre's operation for imperforate rectum (Johnson) . • • ■ — operation for artificial anus (Holmes) 410 Liver (The) . . • • 87 Liver, normal structure of (Wagner) 87 — glueogene of (Bernard) . 88 — saccharine function of (Harley) 88 _ do. (Pavy) 89 — sugar ot (Thudichum) . . 90 — sugar from glucogene of (Berthelot) 88 — new formation of tissue (Rokitansky) 184 — action of mercury on (Inman) . 245 — diseases of (Bertulus) . . 241 — do. chemistry of (Thudichum) 235 — do. Karlsbad for (Sorger) . 235 — abscess in (Gulland) . . 234 — do. (Traube) . . 235 — do. (Wagner) . . 189 — do., discharging into Bronchi (Simon) 235 — acephalo-cysts of (Lemaire) . 236 — atrophy of, from retention of bile (Aran) 237 — acute atrophy of (Breithaupt) 239 — do. ' (Oppolzer) . 243 — do. (Gaupp) . 236 — do. in a child . 399 — cancerous masses in (Neumann) 234 _ do. (Hare) . 239 — cirrhosis of (Brinton) . 222 — do. dropsical transudation (Reden- bacher) . . . .236 — do. vascular anastomoses in (Sappey) 231 — enlargement of (Jackson) . 237 — do. in infant (Jacobi) 399 — fatty degeneration and softening of (Marcq) . . .234 — granular disease of (Wallmann) 242 — congenital hernia of (Meadows) 409 — hydatid tumours of; paracentesis 235 do. (Budd) . 240 — do. (Boinet) . 243 — induration of (Oppolzer) . 235 — inflammation of, iodine enemata in (In- hauser) .... 236 — do. See Hepatitis. — rupture of (Keig) . . 281 — do. (McMillan) . . 235 — steatosis of, icterus from (Rigler) 235 — fatal do. (Rokitansky) . 237 — incipient suppuration in (Traube) 223 — syphilitic affection of (Testelin) 238 — glandular tumours in (Rokitansky) 236 — in abdominal typhus (Wagner) 244 — injuries of (Thomas) . . 429 Liverpool, sanitary progress in (Ncwlands) 481 Lize, forceps and ergot, choice of . 358 — extraction of placenta in abortion 359 Lioyd, wound of carotid in a child 273 Loback. carduus bened. seeds in melrcna, &c. 151 Lobb, continuous galvanic current in acute neuralgia . . ■ 152 Lobelia, poisoning by . . 457 Lobes, olfactory (Owsjaunikow) . 74 Loeschner. See Loschner. Lofflee, gun-shot wounds . 265 LoniiEYEB, general surgery . 264 Lohrmann, santonine . . 258 Longevity, effect of loss of limbs on (Messer) 272 Longhtjrst, coup de soleil . 158 Lopez, milky or chylous urine . 237 — opium, antidote to belladonna . 457 Loranthus, poisonous (Soubeiran) . 459 Loeenz (P.) chemical composition of the brain .... 10 Loeinsee, fracture of fore arm . 285 — deceptions in recognition of syphilis 324 — chronic poisoning by arsenic and copper 446 LiiscHNEE, progressive algidity, sclerema, and decrepitude of infants . . 387 — Leukaemia in children . . 399 — effects of mineral waters . 415 Lotteeee, luxation of humerus . 284 Lotzbeck, Prof. v. Brun's surgical report 242 — perspiratory gland tumour on cheek 249 — hypertrophy of mammary gland 278 — do. . . 379 — cancer of thyroid gland . 279 Lowe (E. J.), temperature of flowers and leaves . . . .114 — ozone-box and test-slips . 124 Lowe (J.), sarcina ventriculi . 224 Lowenhaedt, motives of mental deficiency 476 Lowenstein, poisoning by datura stramo- nium .... 457 Lowenthal (J.) on Fehling's liquid 107 Lowes, detachment of placenta . 349 Luc a (De), see Berthelot. Lucifers, improvements in fabrication of (Poggiale) . . .490 Ludwig, temperature of the saliva 82 Luke, fracture of base of skull . 293 — rupture of jejunum from a kick; peri- tonitis . . . . 303 — operation for strangulated hernia, in in- fant .... 307 — obstruction, artificial anus . 3H — cancer of bladder . . 31 g Lumleian Lectures, on continued fever (Tweedie) . . , 138 Lumpe. ligature of fibrous polypus of uterus 368 Lunacy in England , . 178 — fourteenth report of Commissioners in 177 — in Scotland . . .178INDEX. Luuaey, second report of Commissioners for Scotland . . , 177 — nascent . , . 473 — See- Insanity, Lunatic asylums, reform of (Parigot) 178 — Omagh (Went) . . .177 — Perthshire (Lindsay) . . 177 — of Italy, France, and Germany (Arlidge) 178 — in France (Brierre de Boismont) 182 — of Holland, report of . . 178 — at Dordrecht (Koell) . . 178 — in Italy, pellagra in (Billod) . 185 — Pennsylvania (Kirkbride) . 177 — American, reports . . 178 — do. . . . . 182 Lund, chronic hydrocephalus . 391 Lungs, anatomy of the human (Waters) 75 — physiolog. anatomy of (Heale) . 76 — air-vesicles of, muscular fibres of (Mole- schott) .... 76 — vital capacity of (Balfour) . 77 «■»' do. (Grehaut). 77 — vital contractility of (Knaut) . 81 — physical examination of, in cb ildren (Vogel) 206 — do. (do.) 393 — differences of sound, sitting or lying (Gerhardt) . . .217 — fumigation of (Matthews) . 208 — diseases of, connected with anomalies of costal cartilages (Freund) . 216 — abscess of (Traube) . . 215 — do. (do.) . . 235 bones in the (Wagner) . 206 — do; (do.) . . 216 — cirrhosis of (Mayne) . . 209 — concretions in the (Scholz) . 206 — congestions of (Delioux) . 207 — do. dyspnoea a cause of (Smith) 215 — corrugation of border of (Traube) 207 — emphysema (Flint) . . 208 do. (Waters) . . .221 — do. intra-uterine (Hecker) . 392 — vesicular malformation of (Mever) 205 — do. (do.) 406 Lttjtjt (W. J.) injury to the head . 293 — retention of urine and stricture; urethro- tomy .... 314 Lupus, biniodide of mercurv in (Barton) 218 — secondary syphilitic inoculation in (Gibert) 219 — hypertrophic (Gintrac) . 258 LrsciiKA, villous outgrowths of outer coat of small blood-vessels . . 188 LrssAXA, neuralgia of the arms . 154 — do. . 166 — vertigo and nervous physiology 174 — angina pectoris . . 174 — do. . 221 Luys, amylaceous corpuscles in skin 134 — muscular atrophy, with disease of gray matter of spinal cord . . 103 — case of epilepsy . . 173 Luzbinsky, reports of Vienna institution for sick children . . . 890 Lymphatic elements, formation of, in pleura? and lungs in puerperal fever (Wagner) 133 Lymphatic vessels (Pappenheim) . 95 — of Schneiderian membrane (Simon) 74 Lymphatic glands (Ilenle) . 94 — Inflamed (Larne) . . 278 — albuminous infiltration of (.Tenner) 399 — scrofula of (Price) . . 278 Lyon, vesico-vaginal fistula . 876 Lyons, report on yellow fever at Lisbon 495 Macaitlay, Wutzer and Wood's hernia opera- tions .... 304 Mc Clintock, unusual uterine tumour 366 — spontaneous cure of uterine polypus *368 — peri-uterine hsematocele . 369 — epithelial cancer of pudendum . 376 — mammary inflammation and abscess 378 Mc Comdie, cancer of oesophagus perforating aorta . . . 222 McCobjlac, aspirations from the inner life 2 M'Doxnell (R.) formation of sugar and amyloid substance in the animal economy 87 Macdoxnell (R. L.) "Closure of Womb" 353 McDowell(B. G.) aneurism of thoraric aorta simulating laryngitis . . 188 — unusual cause of death in thoracic aneu- rism .... 198 McDowell (E.) life of (Gross) . 372 McGee, scarlatina . . 138 McGitie (James) detection of sugar in diabetic urine by sulphuric acid . . 96 M'Gill, sanitary condition of lower parts of- Glasgow . . . 4S1 M'Gowax. sanitary reform . ISO Maclaculan, oesophageal fistula . 223 McLaeex, value of exercise in expansion of the chest ... . 78 Macleod, sanitaria for Glasgow . 4S1 McMillan, rupture of liver . 235 MACJtrnno, grazing of heel j tetanus 268 McSwiney. fatal case of croup; tracheotomy 206 — do. 396 MeWiLLTAM, health of water-guard and water-side Customs officers . 483 Madden, the Turkish bath . 250 Madder, action of, on the egg and on teeth (.Toly) . . . -HIINDEX. 548 Madder, coloration of bones of fcetus by (Flourens) _ . .112 Madness, criminal . • 476 — See Insanity, Lunatic Asylums, Mania. Madurowitz, ura?mic eclampsia . 381 Magg, on prevalence of suicide . 471 Magicians, modern . . 178 Magitot (E.) development and structure of dental follicles . . 18 — tumours of dental periosteum . 335 Magxe, poisoning by solanum nigrum 457 Magrok. See Mariin-Magron. Maingav/lt, diphtheritic paralysis 158 Maisonnette, operation for strangulated hernia . . . . 305 Majer, infantile pemphigus . 249 Maker and Kircjiberg, chromhidrosis 249 Maxago. acupuncture of varicose veins 190 Malagot, sulphuret of calcium in tinea capitis . . . . 219 » Malar bone, dislocation of (Pellarin) 281 Malformations, Afc, of foetus . 407 Malformations of parts. See the names of parts. Mall, luxation of sternal end of collar-bone 282 — spontaneous cure of retroversion 363 Mallez, prolapsus of mucous membrane of female urethra . . . 377 Malmsteo", intestinal infusoria in man 225 Maljistex, crystals of uric acid in pemphi- gus vesicles . • . ■ , 104 — erysipelas, with thrombus iu venro porta? 139 Malpraxis, &c. (Dambre, Fritsehe, Kalisch) 466 Malum senile in joints (Hempel) . 288 Mammas, extraordinary development of, in a male (Durham) . . 405 Mammalia (Cobbold) . . 4 Mammarv gland, hvpertrophy of (Lotzbeck) 278 — action of belladonna on (Marley) 378 Mammary tumours. See Breast. Man, non-cosmopolitism of (Bouclin) 2 — deterioration and improvement of (Hoppe) 337 Maxdl (L.) pulmonary osmose . 77 Handy, suicidal mania . . 434 Manec, on curare in tetanus . 175 — hernia of caecum and appendix 307 — internal strangulation, with inguinal her- nia *'• * • • • 803 — crural hernia, strangulated . 309 — hypertrophy of breast . . 379 Mania, conditions of blood in (Hood) 34 — do. ' (do) 185 ;— with ambitious delirium (Baillarger) 185 — treatment (Legrand) . 412 — pretended (Schaible) . . 466 Mania, acute (Needham) . . 180 do. following chorea (Banks) . 151 — See Insanity. Mania,-puerperal . . 384 Mania, puerperal (Bonifas) . 384 — do. (Simpson) . 384 Maniacs, homicidal, at large . 474 Manourt, artificial premature labour 353 Mantegazza, vitality of spermatozoa of frog . . t. .111 — transplantation of testicles . Ill — medical letters on South America 207 Manure from sewage waters (Blyth) 485 — transformation of fcecal matters into 484 Manz (W.) ganglions and nerves of the in- testines ... 41 Marasmus in earlv childhood (Lederer) 386 Marce, oedema of brain . . 163 — hypochondriacal delirium ; refusal of food 178 Marcet (W.) action of alcohol on the nervous system ... 57 Marciial de Calvi, iodine as a disinfectant 259 261 Marciietti, sulphuric ether frictions in supra-orbital neuralgia . . 155 Marcq, fatty degeneration, and softening of liver .... 234 Mardurgwicz, obstetric statistics; Braun, Vienna .... 360 Marescii, atropine in epilepsy . 157 Maret, the circulation in health and disease 33 — the pulse, and vascular murmurs 33 — " Sphygmographion" in researches on the pulse . . . 34 Marinus. See Vlemlnchx. Markham (W. O.) sounds of the heart 28 — endocarditis and affections of the heart's valves .... 187 — cardiac diseases . . 188 — pericarditis, treatment . . 193 Marklin, rigor after death by lightning 434 — life and respiration of new-bom child 469 Marley (R.) action of belladonna on mam- mary gland . . . 378 Marotte, poisoning by mushrooms 459 Marrotte, uterine affections confounded with lumbo-sacral neuralgia . 153 Marsh's apparatus in arsenic poisoning (Schneider) .... 442 Marshall (C. G.) extra-uterine fetation 342 Marshall (J.) stricture and functions of the human body . , 4 — cancerous stricture of oesophagus 298 — Wutzer's radical cure for inguinnl hernia •305 — urethrotome for obstinate stricture 313INDEX. 511 MARSHALL (W. J.) birth-rate as affecting deaths under two years . . 388 Maeston, delirium tremens . 164 Marten, injuries and diseases of coal-miners 490 Martin (E.) podalio version, in contracted pelvis .... 344 — transfusion of blood in post-partum has- morrhago . . . 350 — Ccesarean section . . 355 — on forceps operations . . 358 Martin, true variola from vaccine matter 146 Martin (J.) hypertrophy of follicles of uterine cervix . . . 365 Martin-Magron and Buisson, action of extracts of nux vomica and woorara 67 —i and E. Fernet, influence of polarization in electricity on nervous system . 51 Martin St.-Ange, monster " phocomele " 404 Martinenq, puerperal fever . 382 Martini (A. de) coloration of vision and of urine by santonine . . 71 Martyn, connective tissue . 117 Marvejotjls, vesico-vaginal fistula; air pes- sary . . . 377 Mascaeel, respiratory diseases at waters of Mont Dore . . .207 Maschka, ecchymoses on internal organs 204 — abortion from blow on the belly 429 — blow on the back; phlegmon, pyaemia, death . . . .434 — murder or suicide . . 434 — question of strangled or frozen . 434 — poisoning by arsenic . . 446 — remains of body of infant; question of inspiration . . . 468 — apoplexy by suffocation of new-born child 469 — question of still-birth . . 469 — medico-legal contributions . 475 Mash, Pirogoff's amputation of foot 272 Masson, medicinal plasters . 248 Mastication, organs of (Bruns) . 297 Masturbation, contraction of meatus, &c. (Hicquet) . . .237 Mathiett, physiology of compression 189 Mattei, termination of old extra-uterine pregnancies . . . 341 Matteucci, electrical phenomena of muscular contraction ... 20 — electric function of the torpedo . 49 — electro-motor power of ditto . 50 Matthews, fumigation of lungs . 208 Maunder, operative surgery . 265 Maxilla. See Jaw. Maxillary (inter-) bones of man (Larcher) 19 May (E.) tapping and pressure in ovarian dropsy .... 374 May (H.) nourishing of new-born children 390 iMAYKR(A.)pain in the back in spinal disease* 105 Mayer (V. F.) oxalate of cerium . 221 Mayer (C.) extirpation of medullary sar- comatous tumour of uterus . 300 Mayne (R. G.) lexicon of medical and general 8 209 387 403 305 492 terms Mayne (R.) cirrhosis of one lung Mayr, semeiology of sick child — erythema nodosum in children Mazel. See Bonifaz. Meade (R. H.) inflammation and abscess of prostate .... 321 Meadows, admission of air into serous cavi- ties . . . .208 — delivery of child weighing eighteen pounds 347 — hysterotomy . . . — congenital hernia of the liver . 409 Meagher, cerebrospinal meningitis 157 Meat, unwholesome (Gamgee) — raw, as a remedy (Leverett) . 223 Meatus urinarius, contraction of (Hicquet) 237 Mediastinum, dermic cyst in (Cordes) 188 — do. do. . 200 — abscesses in (Giintner) . Medical doctrines (Renouard) Medical science, essays on (Cappie) 1 — aspects of (Gay) . . 2 Medicine, report on the institutes of, by Dr. 67. Harley ... 1 — practical report on, by Br. Handfield Jones .... 133 — report on special therapeutics, by Dr. U. Jones .... 412 Medicine, history of (Henry) . 258 — application of numerical method to (G uj) — new theory (Inman) Medicine, manuals, treatises, Sfc. Medicine, clinical (Leubuscher) — practical (Lebert) — rational (Ward). biblico-talmudical (Wunderbar) 220 150 137 222 222 2 424 1 Medicine, legal, report on, by Dr. J. B. San- derson .... 423 Medicine, legal (Lazzaretti) . 423 — do. (Casper) . .421 do. (Beck, Dambre, Gilman) 424 55 do. text-book of (Henke) — do. cases in (Hoffmann) Medicines, physiological action of . Medicines, action of (Hunt) — general effects (Bernard) — digestive assimilation of, into (Bouley) . . • — Chinese (Schwarz) . . 2o8 — do. (Hobson) . . 259 — of Tahiti (Schwarz) . . 258 Mediomaniacs . . .1/8 -123 129 55 58 milk 232INDEX. 545 Medulla oblongata, experiments on (Brown- Sequard) . . .37 — anatomy of (Vulpian) . .38 Meigs, transposition of arteries . 190 Meixhard, bromide of potassium in vesical catarrh .... 234 — pot. iod. in do. . . . 414 Meissxer (G.) sense of touch . 74 — digestion of albuminous substances 85 Meissner (E. A.) Ca:sarean section 356 Meissner's system of ventilation of nurseries 483 MelanaMiiia (Beckmann) . . 196 Melancholy, self-power to prevent (Aldis) 177 — from latent pregnancy; abortion (Ber- thier) . . . .178 — religious (Citella) . . 182 — transitory (Erlenmeyer) . 473 Melanosis, universal (Gross) . 137 Membrane, Schneiderian, lymphatics of (Simon) . . . .74 — nasal mucous, structure of (Hover) 74 — new, of arachnoid (Brunet) . 168 — synovial, scrofulous disease of (Barwell) 287 — See Mucous membrane. Mendel, bronchotomia . . 300 Meningeal effusion, sanguineous (Gallway) 154 Meningitis, chronic and acute (Meyer) 151 — idiopathic (Schnitzler) . . 152 — sporadic (Gros) . . . 152 — foudroyante sporadic (Forget) . 154 — tubercular (Curran) . . 156 — do. (Hill) . . 154 — do. (do.) . . 166 — do. (.Tenner) . . 390 — do. (Lensing) . . 391 — cerebro-spinal (Meagher) . 157 Menorrhagia . . . 367 Menorrhagia (Wagner) . . 189 — treated by injection and scraping of uterus (Routh) . . . 367 Menses, accumulated (Hooper) . 364 — retention of (Santesson) . 409 — retained from imperforate os (Brown) 364 Menstruation, epilepsy from disorder of (Brown-Sequard) . . 367 — uterine ha;matocele, &c, as accidents of (Voisin) . . . .369 Mentagra (Chaussit) . . 257 Mental faculties of animals and man (Ger- lach) . . . .38 Mental condition of new-born child (Kuss- maul) .... 43 Mental diseases, causes of (Jarvis) . 180 — diagnosis and prognosis of (Burnett) 184 — state of nutrition in (Nasse) . 184 — increase of, from disease of sexual func- tions (Santlus) . , . 183 — See Insanity. Meqijel, detection of blood-stains . 432 Mercier, emboli of the arteries . 190 Mercury, use and abuse of (Hughes) 139 — advantages of treatment by (Hermann) 324 — influence of treatment of parents by, on their children (Pave) . . 138 — do. (do.) . . 322 — if an hepatic specific (Thudichum) 235 — action on the liver (Inman) . 245 — metamorphosis of tissues from use of (Gruber) . . . .324 — dvnamic action of fatty salts of (Jeannel) 130 — rural use of, in croup (Jones) . 205 — mercurial disease (Overbeck) . 150 — biniodide of, in goitre (Frodsham) 235 — do. in lupus (Barton) . 248 — chloriodide of (Devergie) . 248 Merkel, laryngoscopy and phonetics 206 — do. . . 298 Mesenteric plexus, functions of (Budge) 44 Mesnet (E.) somnambulism considered pa- thologically . . .2 Messer (J. C.) the prostate in old age 128 — effect of loss of limbs on longevity 272 Metallic armatures in chorea (Bouchut) 155 Metallic salts, action of solutions of, on motor nerves (Eulenburg) . . 64 Metcalfe, occlusion of os uteri in labour 345 — poisoning by arsenical paper-hangings 447 Meteorology, its relation to medicine (Foissac) 258 Meyer (G. H.) the human hand . 25 Meyer (H.) why the shoe pinches 1 — influence of nerves on the colour of venous blood .... 31 — vesicular malformation of lungs; cyanosis 205 — do. 406 Meyer (L.), chronic and acute meningitis 151 — epithelial granulations of arachnoid 159 406 Meyer, examination of blood-stains 432 Miasma, marsh, gentian root in (Chabasse) 138 Michel, of Charleston, pathology of the pituitary body . . .38 do. . 152 Michel (P. F.), diphtheria from infection and inoculation . . . 137 Michell (T.) sudden death from rupture of aorta into pericardial sac . 187 Michon, luxation of head of radius 284 Microcephalism (Gratiolet) . 2 Micrographic dictionary (Griffith) 1 Microscope in phthisis (Brown) . 2l2 Microscopic anatomy, human (Kolliker) 3 355-iG INDEX. MiDDELDOltrF, polypi of the oesophagus 221 — do. . 227 — oxtoninl gastric fistula) . 232 — upright luxation of shoulder . 284 Midwife ry and diseases ofwomen and children, report on, by Dr. Graily Hewitt 336 Midwifery in general . . 336 Midwifery (Cimrchill) . . 336 — study of (Hewitt) . .337 — atlas to works on (Lenoir) . 337 — in the East (Jackson) . . 336 Midwifery, mechanism of delivery . 339 — operations in . , . 352 Midwifery, chloroform in (Faye, Jeaucourt, Kidd) .... 359 — do. (Pettigrew; Skinner) 360 Midwifery, statistics of . . 360 Midwifery, statistics of lying-in-hospitals,&c. 360-1 Midmfery, report on special therapeutics, by Dr. Q. Hewitt . . . 418 Mierswa, mechanism of the semilunar valves 29 Military surgery (Stromeyer) . 265 — Indian campaign, 1857-8 (Brown) 265 Milk .... 92 Milk, constituents of, and their decomposition (Hoppe) ... 92 — quantity of fat in (Fliickiger) . 92 t~ comparison of human and animal (Baines) 92 — do. (Baines) . 389 — secretion of, from right axilla (Hare) 93 — from sheep, analysis of (Filhol) 129 — human, artificial (Cumming) . 390 — do. substitute for (Scharlau) 389 *-* adulterations, tests for, &c. (Adrian, Dank- worth, Minchin) . . 492 Milk-sugar in milk (Boudet) . 92 Milkv liquid from paracent. abdoin. (Buignet) 224 Miller (W. A.) elements of chemistry 2 Millet, kermes and digitalis in pneumoma 221 Millstone-makers' phthisis (Peacock) 208 — do. (do.) 488 Milroy, pyamiia with typhus fever 194 —r report on quarantine . . 495 Minchin, mortality of infants in workhouses 388 — on determining quality of milk 492 Mind, deficiency of, motives of (Lowenhardt) 476 Mind and brain, correlations of (Lavcock) 2 Mineral waters, effects of (Loeschner) 415 — in phthisis (Dnrand-Fardel) . 208 — of Aix-la-Chapelle in syphilis (Wctzlar) 139 — of Ems in morbus Brightii (Spongier) 206 Mineral waters of Ems in morbus Brightii (Spengler) . . .236 — of Mont Dore in asthma (Richelot) 155 — sulphurous, of St. Amand in uterine diseases (Charpentier) . . 3C8 — ofSchwalbach in uterine catarrh (Frick. hoefler) .... 368 Mi ners of Griineberg, diseases (Schirmer) 489 — quicksilver, of Idria, diseases (Hermann) 490 Mines, suffocation in gas of (Housselle) 490 Minor, operations for imperforate anus 409 Mirror factories of Bohemia, diseases of (Keller) . . . .491 Mitchell (J. T.) preternatural labour 337 Mitchell (S. W.) cataract in frogs, from administration of sugar . . 70 Mitral valve, rupture of cord. tend, of (Allix) 189 — purulent endocarditis of (Forster) 200 Mitscherlich and Cabper, poisoning by coniine .... 455 Moderna, chorea with gesticulations; blister to the head . . . 155 Moeller. See Moller. Mohnike, pigment in spinal arachnoid 153 Moir, retroflexion of nnimpregnated uterus ' 363 Moisture, action of, on the organism (Bertulus) 131 — in buildings (Moller) . . 481 Molecular processes in nerve-substance (Hap- less) . . . . 48 Molescuott (Jac.) Micro-chemical examina- tion of smooth muscle . . 27 — muscular fibres of air-vesicles of lungs 76 — physiology of alimentary substances 82 Moller, clinical report . . 140 — do. . _ 220 — hooping-cough . . . 395 — acute rachitis . . . 402 — influence of external pressure on sutrilla* tion .... 428) — hyoscyamin in bodv, death doubtful 434 ■ — moisture in buildings . . 481 Mollities ossium, &c, in a horse (Harley; Varnell) . . .20 Momberger (H.) on the nipple and its areola i 113 Monneret, powder for chronic coryza ^ 209 — essential hfcmorrhagie icterus . 237 — complex disease of spleen . 239 — treatment of typhoid fever . US Monsters, monstrosities, <f'c, offuctus -107 Monsters, two foetal (Tanner) . 404 — double (Hobart) . . 404 — do. (Swayne) — acardiac (Claudius) . . •• -104 407547 IXDEX. Monster, amorphous (Gluge) . 409 — genus phocomelo (Martin St. Ange) 401 — genus xiphodyme (Girard) . 404 Mont Blanc, composition of air from (Frank- land) .... 123 Monteils, thoracentesis in pleuro-pneumonia 207 Moore (\V.) a flections of chest in children,&c. 205 — do. . 20G — do., pleurisy, &.e. 393 — do., phthisis, &c. 393 — suppressed secretion of bile, jaundice, &c. 234 — squamous disease . . 251 Moohe (W. D.) fibrous polvpus at base of skull . . . .278 Moore. See Sirsclispntng. Moquin-Tandon (A.) medical zoology 1 Morbus coxarins, Savre's splint for (Edwards) 288 Moreau (A.) sensory and motor roots of nerves in birds ... 45 — sensory and motor nerves of fishes 45 — action of woorara on torpedo . 66 Morel (C.) human histology . 1 Morel-La vallee, articulating bandage 286 Morgan (J. E.) non-prevalence of consump- tion in Hebrides . , 216 Morgan. See Be Morgan. Morgan, occlusion of vagina; operation 375 Moride, Boghead coke, as a disinfectant 259 Mohin, ventilation by heat of lighting appa- ratus .... 483 Morphia, hypodermic action of (Spender) 152 — in diseases of children (Briinniche) 390 — injections in hemicrania (Barton) 153 — acetate of, its injection in delirium tremens (Ogle) .... 153 Mortality, high, in Greenock (Wallace) 480 — of infants. See Infants. Morton (J.) cannabis indica in traumatic tetanus . . . .152 — radical cure of hernia . . 304 — delirium tremens . . 414 Mottet, complete reproduction of bono 17 — herpes gutturalis and ophthalmia from herpes conjunctiva) . . 249 Moutard-Martin, sulphate of cinchonino in ague .... 147 Moymer (C.) on chorea . . 175 Mucous membrane, changes in, from inflam- matory action (Burckliardt) . 133 — nasal, structure of (Hoyer) . 74 — intestinal, epithelial cells of, as protective organs (Lambl) . . . 130 Mucus, metamorphosisof cancer into(Braune) 133 Mulder (D. E.) indigo as a test for grape and fruit sugar . , , 96 Mulder (D. E.) discovery of phosphorus in poisoning . . . 440 Muller (II.) fibres of sympathetic in smooth muscles of the eye . . 38 — smooth muscles of eyelids . 69 Muller (0.) psychiatrics of suicide 471 MiiLLER (W.) excretion of urea after opera- tions . . . .101 Muller, corrosive ulcer in stomach, &c. 225 Muller, colouring matter containing arsenic 448 Milliner's clinic for skin diseases (Hcbra) 249 MUNCnMETER, typhlitis and perityphlitis 230 — retroversio uteri . . 363 Munich, hospitals of (Adam) . 25'.) Munk (Ph.) on urine-pigment . 108 — syphilitic hemiplegia . . 152 — ' do. . 323 — chronic pneumonia, with caverns 206 — renal degeneration . . 235 — See Traube. Murder, accusation of (Cessner) . 435 — qualified (Hofmann) . . 475 — by preventing respiration of new-born child (Rosstock). . . 435 — in a mill at work (Ricker) . 435 — See Suicide. Murderer of a child, state of (Sehmid) 476 Murmurs, cardiac, alteration through tho- racic organs (Ringer) . . 32 — respiratory (Salter) . . 80 — vascular (Marey) . . 33 — musical, in pleura (Thompson) . 205 . . Murnet, pneumonia of left lung . 205 — strychnia in bronchocele . 235 — do. . 240 — ulceration of uterus . . 366 Murray (J. J.) malformations of lower lip in a family . . . 407 Muscles, micro-chemical examination of smooth (Moleschott) . . 27 — coagulable substance of (Kiihne) 22 — voluntary action of (Jobert) . 25 — voluntary actions of, involuntary by habit (Osborne) . . . 26 — idio-muscular contractions (Kiihne) 23 — involuntary rhythmical contraction of (Jobert) .... 25 — peculiar movements of (Baierlacher) 25 — chemical irritation of (Kiihne) . 22 — irritation of, by chemical reagents (Kiihne) 23 — twitchings of, independent of the nerves (Kiihne) .... 23 — chemical irritants of (Schelske) . 24 — condition of, in myalgia (Inman) 186 — effects of freezing on (Foster) . 21 — influence of woorara on (Wundt) 67 — fibres of striped, distribution of nerves to (Beale) ... 40 — of drunkards, inosite in (Valuntinor) 26.INDEX. 5-1 s Muscles of frogs, abolition of properties of, nfter death (Faivre) . . 24 — ciliary, division of, in glaucoma, &c. (Hancock, Rouse, Solomon) . 329-30 332 — of the eye, fibres of sympathetic nerve in (Mullor) . '. .38 — smooth, of eyelids (Miiller) . G9 — kerato-cricoid (Turner) . . 24 — bronchial, paralysis of (Duncan) 213 — of tho forearm and hand (Aeby) 25 — spinal, paralysis of (Zuradelli) . 176 Muscular system ... 20 — diseases of . . 185 Muscular fibres of ventricular portion of heart (Pettigrew) . . 27 — do. of air-vesicles of lungs (Molcschott) . . 76 Muscular movements from galvanic- action on nerve (Radclifle) . . 20 Muscular contractions, law of (Bezold) 54 — do. (Pfliiger). 53 — heat produced during (Beclard). 21 — electrical phenomena of (Matteucci, Rad- cliffe) .... 20 — influence of the length of an irritated nerve on (Harless) . . 54 Muscular atrophy (Niemeyer) . 185 — progressive (Bamberger) . 186 — paralysing (Sandahl) . . 185 Muscular pain; cure by shampooing (Piorry) 185 Muscular spasms during desiccation of nerves (Harless) ... 47 Muscular poisons (Bernard) . 65 Mushrooms, poisoning by (Lallemand) 459 — do. (Lancereaux, Marotte)459 Mt/sizzano, cyanideof iron, &c, in ague 259 Musset. See Jolt/. Musst (De). See Gueneau de Mussy. Mustard, essential oil of, detection of (Pincus) 465 Mustard cakes and oil (Bcrnatzik) . 139 Myalgia (Inman) . . 185-6 — condition of muscles in (Inman) 186 Myelitis, chronic (Ramskill) . 156 — ergot of rye in (Bree) . . 153 Myeloid disease (Cadge) . . 277 Myocarditis of right auricle (Wagner) 189 Myodynamics of heart and blood-vessels (Cohen) ... . 30 Myositis (Inman) . . • 185-6 — syphilitic (Fischer) . . 323 Najvus, creasote for removal of (Bujalsky) 421 Nagel, elephantiasis Arabum . 248 Narcotics in incipient insanity (Hinds) 178 Nasal mucous membrane, structure of (Hoy er) 74 Nas9E (H.) transformation of starch by bile 91 — state of nutrition in mental disorders 184 NataNSON, diagnosis of muscular spasm 165 Natural philosophy (Bird) . . 2 Nature, vis medicatrix of . . 8 Naudin, imperforate rectum and recto- vaginal fistula . . . 399 Neck, congenital cyst of (Giraldes) 406 — cellular inflammation (Hawkins) 300 — wound of (Hawkins) . . 299 Necrosis in stumps (Berend) .272 Needham, acute mania . . 180 Needle for metallic sutures (Price) . 269 Needle, bar-, and clasp (Startin) . 269 Nelaton, syphilitic stricture of the rectum 227 — spontaneous gangrene ; emboli . 275 —benign tumours of bone "myeloplaxes" 279 Nelson (D.) albuminuria, and its ferro- albuminous treatment . . 104 Nelson (H.) lingering labour; craniotomy, &c. 351 Nerves; nervous system . . 37 Nerves; nervous system (Waters) . 37 — physiology of (Lussana). . 174 — termination of, at the periphery (Jacubo- witsch) .... 40 — distribution to fibres of striped muscle (Beale) .... 40 — generation of those separated from ner- vous centres (Philipeaux) . 45 — secondary modification (Wundt) 38 — specific energies (Rosenthal) . 52 — different sensibility in same (Budge) 42 — influence of, on the colour of venous blood (Meyer) .... 31 — influence of, on digestion, animalheat, &c. (Zengerle) . . .38 — influence on nutrition of skin (Brown- Sequard) . . .250 — irritation of (Samuel) . . 200 — do. chemical (Kiihne) . 22 — do. vital (Harless) . 54 — do. the vallian law in (Rosenthal) 52 — do. influence on muscular con- traction (Harless) . . 54 — do. inflammation from (Samuel) 189 — muscular twitchings independent of (Kiihne) ... t . 23 — action of alcohol on (Marcet) . 57 — do., &c. (Lallemand) 57 — influence of polarization in electricity on (Martin-Magron) . . 51 — galvanic action on, muscular movements from (Radclifle) . . . 20 — centripetal action of constant galvanic current on (Remak) . • 50 — influence of woorara on (Wundt) 67 Nerves; diseases . . . 151 Nerves, variety of diseases from perverted state 7 — ophthalmoscope in diseases of (Ogle) 116 — injuries (Bryant) . • 264 — rare affection of (Geerds) . 153 — degeneration of, in cancer (Westhoff) 134INDKX. 549 Nerves, desiccation of, muscular spasms {luring (Harless)... 47 — formation of, in neuroma (Weismah) 133 — do. (do.) 173 — inhibitory, physiology of (Schiff) 48 — do. theory of (Pfliiger) . 48 — of sensibility, terminal corpuscles of (Krause).... 74 — motor, independence of their vital pro- perties (Brown-Sequard) . 37 — do. action of solutions of metallic salts on (Eulenburg) . . 64 — do. influence of high temperature on (Rosenthal) ... 47 — do. action of woorara on (Bezold) 67 — vaso-motor, of hind leg in the dog (Brauell) 38 — sensory and motor roots in birds (Moreau) 45 — sensory, motor, and pneumogastric, of fishes (Moreau) ... 45 — spinal, influence of the ganglia on the posterior roots of (Bosse) . 45 — do. atrophy of (Dumenil) . 47 — facial, atrophy of (Dumdnil) . 47 — hypoglossal, atrophy of (Duuienil) 47 — of the intestines (Manz) . 41 — pneumogastric or vagi, physiology of (Weber)'. . . .38 — do. inhibitory ac- tion on the heart (Foster) . 28 — do. (Weber) . . 38 — do. irritation of, vital contractility of lungs after (Knaut) . . 81 — do. influence on the heart's move- ments in birds (Einbrodt) . 29 — do. paralysis of, from cysts in brain (La- borde) .... 152 — do., influence of belladonna on (Hughes) 60 — do., influence of irritation of, on respiration (Budge) .... 81 — radial, paralvsis of, from rheumatism (Zuradelli) , . .176 — third, paralysis (Giibler) . 153 — sympathetic, vaso-motor influence (Ber- nard) .... 29 — do. sensitive properties (Bernard) 38 — do. fibres of, in smooth muscles of eye (Muller) . . 38 — do. genito-spinal centre of (Budge) . . . 38 — do. effect of division of, on temperature of the ear (Voit) . 38 — do. reflex movements produced by (Bernard) . . 38 — of frogs, abolition of properties of, after death (Faivre) ... 24 — See Plexus. Nervous action (Asbhurst) . 37 Nervous affections (Piorry) . 154 Nervous centres in white races, dark color- ation of (Oubler) . . 41 Nervous centres, spinal, asserted by Budge (Brown-ScqiiMi-il) . . 38 — diseases of (Gurrigou) . . 154 Nervous current, velocity of (Brown-Sequard) 47 Nerve-fibre, structure of (Clarke) . 39 — do. (Turner) . 39 Nervous fluid, nature of (Turck) . 174 Nerve-force, generation of (Hughes) 37 Nervous lesions in relation to diphtheria (Hinds) . . .156 Nervous life of animalcules (Levison) 37 Nervous sleep (Azan) . . 2 Nerve-substance, chemical re-action of (Funke) ... 41 — molecular processes in (Harless) 48 Nervous syncope (Heurteloup) . 46 Nervousness . . . 178 Nettbauer (C.) analysis of urine . 96 Neukomm (J.) leucin and tyrosin in tho body in disease (extracts of cases) 11 Neumann, cancerous masses in the liver 234 Nettman, deficiency of mental power, in idiocy .... 476 Neuralgia, atropine injections in (Cowdell) 151. — chloroform in (Little) . . 151 — continuous galvanic current in (Lobb) 152 — cyanide of potassium in (Roche) 151 — of the skin (Bourguignon) . 153 — cerebral, from serous apoplexy (Da Co3ta) 152 — facial (Thomson) . . 152 —■ supra-orbital, sulphuric-ether frictions in (Marchetti) . . . 155 — of the arms (Lussana) . . 154 do. (do.) . . 166 — thoracico-brachial (Lussana) . 221 — of brachial plexus (Schramm) . 152 — cardiac (Lussana) . . 174 — do. (Skoda) . . .155 — lumbo-sacral, uterine affections con- founded with (Marrotte) . 153 Neuroma, formation of nerve in (Weismann) 133 — do. (do.) 173 Neurotomy in painful affections of limbs (Davies) . . .157 Xewhaven, fishing population of (Black) 480 Newxands, sanitary progress in Liverpool 481 Newman (W.) management of placenta 350 Nicolas, on dyspepsia . . 224 Nicolis, heart in epigastrium . 202 Nicolle, transforma tions of hysteria 156 Nicotine, action of, on the heart (Rouget) 64 — poisoning by (Forsius) . .' 457 Niemann, medico-legal autopsies . 435 — death by poisoning , » 43Q — injuries of female organs of generation 166550 INBBX. Niemann, vitality and mode of death of new-born children . . 469 Xiemeyee, muscular atrophy . 186 — special pathology, &c. . 222 Nipple.the.andits areola (Momberger)ii3 Nipples, caso of man with four (Fitzgibbon) 113 Nitric acid, in hannorrhoids, &c. (Smith) 810 Nitro-benzid, a new poison (Casper) -165 Nitrogen of plants, sources of (Cameron, Lawes) . . . 114 Noegoeeatii, dystocia from ovarian tumour 345 Noma, (WUst) . . .224 — ulcus, (Zadelhoff) . . 247 Nonat, diseases of uterus . 361 Nobth (S. W.) iritis from congenital syphilis 329 — do. . 404 Nose, surgical diseases of (Bryant) 299 '— calculus of fossce of (Verneuil) . 206 — innervation of, by transplantation (Fried- berg) .... 47 Nostalgia . . . 476 Notta, contusion of the kidney . 236 — hereditary syphilis . . 404 Noubse (W.) organs of the senses and cere- bral faculties . . .2 Nugent (E.) spontaneous evolution of foetus 316 Numerical method in medicine (Guy) 14 Nunn (T. W.) inflammation and abscess of breast . . . .378 Ntjnneley (P.) chemical examination of a urinary calculus . . 96 Nussdaum, strangulated intestines; liberated by operation . . . 224 Nussee, suicide by firearms . 435 Nutrition of man and animals (Bischofi") 86 — state of, in mental disorders (Nasse) 184 — modification of, in epilepsy (Brown- Sequard) . . .157 Nux-vomica, action of extracts of (Martin- Magron) ... 67 — poisoning by (Pellarin) . 457 Nympha?, hypertrophy of (Browne) 876 Oak-wood, decayed, in skin affections (De- vergie) .... 248 Obesity, fucus vesicularis in (Duchesne Duparc) . . .139 Obstetric catechism (Warrington) . 337 Obstetric cases, register of . 336 Obstetrical Society, 'Transactions/ vol. i 336 Obstetrics. See Midwifery. Obstruction of the bowels (Copeman) 224 — from adhesion to uterus (Aldridge) 223 Occupations, diseases of . • 187 — influence on health and mortality (Beh- rend) .... 490 — certain injurious (Kolb). . 490 O'Connob, hemorrhage from the navel after birth . . . .897 Odling (W.) on acids and salts . 2 (Edema of brain (Marcc-) . . 168 — of the glottis (Labadie) . 207 — do. (Leudet). . 207 — do. (Beigh) . . 215 — do. (Farre, Page, Pitman, Sloane) . , , 298 — do., calomel and tartar emetic in 416 — of scrotum; gangrene (Erichaen) 311 (Esophageal fistula (Maclachlan) . 223 (Esophagus, cancerous ulceration of (McCoin- bic) . . . .222 — cancerous stricture of (Marshall) 298 — polypi of the (Middeldorpf) . 224 — do. (do.) . 227 — fish-bone lodged in . . 223 Oestebbeiciiee, groups of diseases of pros- tate .... 321 O'Febeaxl, larch bark in hemorrhage 187 — See Siolces. Ogle (J. W.) ophthalmoscope in diseases of nervous system . . 116 — anaesthesia, from effects of effused pro- ducts in spinal canal . . 156 — mass of retained placenta, &c, in uterus 347 — malformation of peritoneum . 405 — poisoning by sulphuric acid . 437 Ogle (W.) injection of acetate of morphia in delirium tremens . . 153 — diphtheria . . . 259 Ogston, amyloid bodies in prostate gland 133 — morbid appearances in death by cold 133 Oil, castor, manufacture at Dinapore (Bal- four) . . . .259 — from liver of cod, skate, and dog-fish (Devergie) . . . 260 — croton, poisoning by (Smoler) . 458 — fatty, absorption and assimilation (Jean- nel) .... 130 — kukui (Cooke) . . .259 Oleander, poisonous action of (Kurzak) 457 Olfactory lobes (Owsjannikow) . 74 Ollieb, on osseous grafts . . 16 — artificial production of bone . 16 — transplanting of bone taken from animals after death ... 16 — hypertrophic tumours of the skin 218 — subperiosteal resections . 281] Olshattsen, sudden births . 84j Omentum, hernia of (Derobe) Onanism in childhood (Johnson) . 38fl Operations, surgical. See Surgery Ophthalmia neonatorum (Stellwag vow Coi-ion) ... 392 — do., collyrium of glycerine and nitrate of silver for ... !2l — do., from exposure to light (Ballard) :'S7 — gonon haal, simply urethral (Elliotson) 147 — granulosa (Stellwag) . . 327 Ophthalmic surgery (Square) . 828 Ophthalmoscope (Giraud-Teulon) . 69INDEX. 551 Ophthalmoscope (Taylor, Walton). 326 — in diseases of nervous system (Ogle) 116 Opium, physiological effects (Bodington) 59 — use and abuse of (Uussell) . 171 — contraction of the pupil by (Hughes) 60 — subcutaneous opiate injections (Ward) 153 — in nervous symptoms from a burn (Toler) 151 — accidental poisoning by . 453 Oppenheimer, poisoning by green wall- papers 448 482 Oppeet, arrangement of hospitals . Oppolzee, symptomatic hydrophobia 156 — diseases of spinal cord . . 172 — aneurism of ascending aorta . 190 — dyspncea in pneumonia . . 219 — induration of the liver . . 235 — floating saccular kidney . 236 — acute atrophy of liver . . 243 — Bright's disease . • 246 — chronic poisoning by copper . 451 Orbit, foreign bodies in (Demarquay) 326 Orchitis, catarrhal, at Toulouse (Desbarreaux) 234 — variolous (Beraud) . . 240 Organic forces, connected with polar forces (Baxter) . . .3 Organism, real action of heat, cold, and moisture on (Bertulus) . . 131 Organs of the senses. See Senses, &c. Oraiebod, rupture of the uterus, &C< 850 Oee, pityriasis rubra acuta . 247 Orthopedic surgery . . 332 Oeton, cancer of the stomach . 225 Os calcis, excision of (Erichsen) . 292 Os uteri, closure of, in labour (Metcalfe) 345 — ' do. (Siebold) 345 — rigidity of (Abeille, Arnott) 315 — cauliflower excrescence of (Hicks) 366 — imperforate; retained menses (Brown) 364 Osbohx (H.) poisoning by strychnia 454 Osborne (J.) voluntary action of muscles, by habit involuntary . . 26 Osmose, pulmonary (Mandl) . 77 Osseous grafts (Oilier) . . 16 Osseous system, including cartilage and teeth .... 16 Osseous tissue in the horse, unusual disease of (mollities, &c.) (Harley, Varnell) 20 Ossicula auditus (Bonnafont) . 73 Ossification of epiphysis of femur (Voltolini) 468 Osteoplasty (Langenbeck) . 281 Otorrhcca (Bonafos-Lazcrmo) . 334 '— and consequent abscess in brain (Hut- chinson) .... 153 Ott, epidemic of malignant pustule at In- zenhof .... 253 Ocdenuoven, beri-beri . . 112 Ova, development of (Spiegelberg) 361 — migration of (Kussmaul) . 361 — parasitic, on conjunctiva of turtle (Canton) 111 — hydatidiform degeneration of (Hewitt, Routh) .... 348 — prolapsus of membranes of (Leopold) 852 Ovarian cysts and tumours (Battye, Spiegel- berg) . . . .371 — (Thomas) . . .371 — (Atlee, Boinet, Fox, Huss, Rigler, Ulrich, Worms, Wythes) . . 372 — composition of contents of (Bodeker) 118 — containing teeth, &c. (Lee). . 871 — containing teeth, hair, &c. (Salter) 372 — dystocia from (Noeggerath) . 345 — permanent fistula established (Uytter- hceven) . . •• . 375 — iodine injections in (Schuh, Wells) 375 Ovarian dropsy (Disse) . . 371 — do. tapping and pressure in (Brown, May, Steinthal) . 374 Ovaries, diseases of . . 371 Ovaries, diseases of (Clay and Kiwisch) 371 — malignant disease of (Hewitt) . 372 — abscess of (Clarke, Santesson) . 872 — cancer of cystic (Bristowe) . 371 — primary carcinoma of (Foerster) 372 — colloid tumour of (Tanner) . 373 Ovariotomy (Clay) . . . 371 — (Gross) . . . .372 — (Simpson) . . .372 — (Harper, Boemer, Sp. Wells, Tanner) 373 — (Brown, Crosby, Curling, Kidd, Bidsdale, Wratislaw) . . . 374 — &c, report of English provincial hospitals 374 Ovaritis, variolous (Beraud) . 240 — do. (do.) . 372 Ovekbeck, hydrargyrosis . . 150 Ovulation during pregnancy (Scanzoni) 361 Owsjannikow, olfactory lobes of mammalia 74 Oxford, epidemic smallpox in (Hussey) i38 Oxygen, influence of, on the body (Richardson) 55 Ozone, production of, by platina wire heated by electric current (Le Roux) . 124 '— action of, on organic compounds (Gorup- Besanez) . . . 124 Ozone-box and test-slips (Lowe) . 124 Paascu, consumption in Berlin tailors' work- shops .... 491 Packard (J. H.) capillary blood-vessels in inflammation ... 34 — do. . 187 — pyogenic diathesis . . 137 Pagan, statistics, Glasgow Lying-in Hospital 361 Page, aneurism of the aorta. &e. . 190INDEX. 55a Page, Wutzer and Wood's hernia operations 304 — poisoning by oxalic ncid . 488 Paget, hydrocephalus; puncture; death 15G — uncommon case of epilepsy . 161 — ligature of subclavian artery for axillary aneurism . . . 274 — ganglia beneath annular ligament 277 — scalp-wound; trephining; abscess 293 — cystic disease of lower jaw . 297 — fracture of pelvis, &e. . . 314 — rupture of urethra, &c. . 314 — stone; lithotrity; rupture of renal abscess 319 Pain, lectures on (Hilton) . . 265 Palate, soft, adhesion to fauces (Turner) 298 Paeey, poisoning by strychnia . 453 Palsy. See Paralysis. Pancreas .... 93 Pancreas, transparent injections in examining structure of (Turner) . . 93 — leucin in the (Scherer) . . 10 — digestive function of (Corvisart) 84 — anomalies of the (Klob) . 94 Pancreatitis (Haller) . . 234 Paper-hangings, poisoning by arsenical (Met- calfe) . . . .447 — do. (Biggs, Chevalier) 448 — do. (Bucbner, Fabian, Miiller, Oppenheimer) . . . 448 Papillaj, hypertrophy of (Oilier) . 248 Pappenheim, lymphatic vessels . 95 — metallic pipes for drinking-water 481 Paracentesis, rules for (Trousseau and Carter) 417 — of chest (Trousseau) . . 301 — of pericardium (Trousseau) . 301 — of abdomen in ascites (Carter) 231 — do. (do.) . 302 — in ovarian dropsy (Brown, May, Steinthal) 374 Paralysis (Brown-Sequard) • 154 — (Foville) . . -154 — unusual forms of (Roberts) . 157 — general (Skae) . . • 183 — do. (Tuke) . . . 181 — causes of; intravasation, embolia, and cy- tostasis (Thudichum) . . 196 — of lower extremities (Brown-Sequard) 168 — do. (Irving) . 165 — of left leg, ergot of rye, &c, in (Bree) 153 — of third nerve (Gubler) . . 153 — of radial nerve from rheumatism (Zura- delli) .... 176 — muscular (Banks) . . 185 — of muscles of the eye, phosphorus in (Tavignot) . . .155 — of bronchial muscles (Duncan) . 213 — of spinal muscles (Zuradelli) . 176 — of children (Bierbaum) . 391 Paralysis of children (Kulenberg) . 391 — progressive, of the insane (Wood) 181 — agitans (Colin) . . . 156 — diphtheritic (Maingault) . 158 — do. (Reynolds) . 171 — emotional (Wiblin) . . 153 — syphilitic (Hassing) . . 151 — do. of nervus oculo-motorius (Bey- ran) .... 323 — wasting (Ramskill) . . 156 — writer's (Brown-Sequard) . 156 Pabant, reproduced dropsy of uterus; iodine injection . . . 367 Paraplegia, incomplete, from cysts in brain (Laborde) . . . 152 — hysterical (Rustegho) . . 177 Parasites .... 109 Parasitic ova on conjunctiva of turtle (Canton) . . .111 Paedon. See Purdon. Paresis, peripheral, of rheumatic origin (Chalons) . . .153 Paeigot, management of insane in Belgium 178 — reform of lunatic asylums . 178 Paeeee (L.) syphilitic diseases . 321 Pabkee (S. A.) dental surgery . 335 Paekes (E. A.) composition of urine in health and disease . . 96 — acute sthenic pneumonia, &e. . 210 Paekin, causation and prevention of disease 477 Parotid gland (Bernard) . . 83 Paeeot (J.) sweating of blood and neuro- pathic hemorrhages . . 191 — do. . . 249 — apparent death . . 434 Paetbidge, removal of jelly-mould from vagina .... 269 — foreign body in vagina producing fistula 376 Parturition, mechanism of (Eichstedt) 336 Parturition, induction of premature 352 Parturition, induction of premature (Cohen) 352 — do. (Perrin, Riquard, etc.) . 353 — sudden (Olshausen) . . 345 — rapid (Poole) . . .345 Parturition, unnatural presentations in 346 Parturition, preternatural (Mitchell) 337 — of child weighing eighteen pounds (Mea- dows) .. .. 347 — substitution of parts in (West) . 310 Parturition, diseases of . . 379 — accidents, hamorrhigc, t{v., in . 348 Parturition, death after'chloroform in (Faye) 359 — sudden death in (Depaul, Gardner) 3 & Parturition, medico-legal questions 163 Pasteue (L.) spontaneous generation 112-13 — origin of ferments . • *13INDEX. 558 Patella, rupture of ligament of (Bourguet) 28o — luxation of, outwards (Philipeaux) 285 Pathology, report on,by Br. Handjield Jones 133 — (general) • • • 133 Pathology, special (Hartmann, Niemeyer) 222 — experimental (Bernard) • 6 — cellular (Virchow) . . 134 — do. (do.) . • 137 Patei, strangulation of hernia by intestinal concretion, &c. . . • 308 Pateuban, pneumatoses of the body 134. — emphysema in pneumonia . 205 Paul (C), lead-poisoning, influence on con- ception .... 380 Paul (H. J.) special surgery . 264 — conservative surgery of liwbs . 264 Paulitzkt, amylaceous corpuscles in pros- tate .... 134 Paulli, rupture of uterus . . 350 Paulsen, puerperal thromboses ; embolia of pulmonary arteries . . 385 Pavt (F. W.) effects of white precipitate on animals . . .55 — alleged sugar-forming function of the liver .... 89 — action of white precipitate on animals 450 Paten, vegetable tissue . . 115 — characters of starch and cellulose 115 Peacock, contraction and obliteration of aorta .... 194 — French millstone makers' phthisis 208 — do. 488 — bronzed skin, disease of supra-renal cap- sules . . . .234 — cyanosis . . . 405 — malformation of the heart, &c. . 405 — largely open foramen ovale, without cya- nosis .... 405 Poliosis rheumatica of children (Schmitt) 403 Pellagra in Italy (Billod) . . 185 Pellaeix, fracture of zygomatic arch 281 — poisoning by nux vomica . 457 Peloxs, intestinal occlusion above rectum 224 Pelvic bones, joints of, in parturition (Schwegel) . . 339 Pelvic cellulitis (Gibb) . . 382 Pelvimeter, new (King) . . 339 Pelvis, abnormal conditions of . 343 Pelvis, obliquely distorted, origin of (Thomas) 343 — asymmetrical distortion of (Barnes) 344 — contracted, podalic version in (Martin) 344 — malformation of, podalic version (Sorbets) 346 — osteomulakial, in labour (Schmitz) 344 Pemberton (O.) excision in aneurism from anastomosis , . 274 Pemphigus (Bamberger) . . 257 — case of (Janzen) . .249 — congenital (lleymann) . . 249 — infantile (Majer) . 249 Pemphigus vesicles, crystals of uric acid in (Malmsten) . . • 104 Penaed, immoral assaults . _ 470 Penghawar djambi, new haemostatic (Vinke) 188 Penis . • . . 311 Penis, cases of amputation of . 311 — amputation of, for cancer (Wenz) 311 Pepper, adulteration of . . 492 Pepsin, use of (Basslinger) . 222 Percussion (Lichtenfels) . . 217 — do. (Lichtenfels, &c.) . 260 Perforation of appendix vermiformis (Leudet) 227 — do. (Traube) . 223 — and cephalotripsy (Hennig, Spondli) 357 Pericarditis (Gairdner) . . 193 — treatment (Markham) . . 193 — acute, with chorea (Hinds) . 187 — fatal rheumatic, in a child, with varicella (Kirby) . . . .193 Pericardium, paracentesis of (Trousseau) 301 Perinamrn, on supporting the (references to cases) .... 351 — fistula; in (Fergusson) . . 314 Perinceum, laceration of . . 351 Perinamm, laceration in labour (Leishman) 351 — rupture (Brown) . . 352 — do. (do.) . . 375 — lipoma of (Capelle) . . 376 — section of (Symonds) . . 314 — plastic operations on (Biefel, Roubaix) 375 Periodicity of disease (Hughes) . 149 Periphery, termination of nerves at (Jacu- bowitsch) ... 40 Peritoneal cavity, air in, after perforation of stomach (Howitz) . . 230 Peritoneum, malformation of (Ogle) 405 Peritonitis (Habershon) . . 233 — (Skoda) . . .224 — acute (Hermann) . . 224 — with perforation (Dahl) . 225 — perforation in (Second-Fereol) . 225 — in case of perforation of ileum (Flower) 302 — from fallopian inflammation (Forster) 232 — from purulent inflammation of fallopian tubes (Foerster) . . . 370 — fatal (Brinton) . . . 223 — fatal, in strangulated hernia (Patri) 308 — fatal, after injury to jejunum (Holt) 303 — fatal, after rupture of jejunum . 303 — mercurial ointment in (Innhauser) 415 Perityphlitis (Rotten, Lang, and Kolb) 223 — (Munchmeyer) . . 23055-i INDEX. Permanganate of potash, oxidation of albu- minous substances with (Bechamp) 11G Peroxide of hydrogen, properties of (Richard- son) .... 62 PiUUUN, induction of prematura labour 852 — Hoe Lallemand, Perspiration, fetid, of feet (Gafl'ard) 250 Pescheux, sulphate of atropine in tetanus 151 Pessaries, uterine (Brcslau, Leopold) 804 Petuequin, obstinate vomiting in preg- nancy .... 380 Pettenkofee, air in dwellings and venti- lation .... 480 — See Lamont. Pettigrew (F. W.) chloroform and in- strumental labour . . 360 Pettigrew (J.) muscular fibres of ventricular portion of heart . . 27 Pfaff, falsification of beer . 492 Pfaffer, bromide of potassium . 239 Pfluger (E.) theory of the inhibitory nerves 48 — do., reply. See Schiff. — physiology of electrotone . 52 — tetanus from interruption of electric current ... . . 53 -— on Heidenhain's neuro-physiological com- munication ... 38 — See Heidenhain. Phagedaena, sloughing (Cleveland) 223 Pharynx, epithelial cancer of (Jones) 302 Philipeaux (R.) luxation of patella out- wards . . . . 285 — and Vulpian, generation of nerves separated from nervous centre 45 Philifpson, idio-somnambulism . 154 Phillips, report on Excise laboratory 492 Philosophy, natural (Bird) . 2 Philothalos, the wife's domain . 389 Phlebitis, obstructive (Charcot) . 202 — of femoral vein (Stewart) . 273 — in syphilitic patients (Girdwood) 275 Phlegmasia dolens . . 385 Phlegmasia dolens (Fox) . • 385 — pathological lesion of (Fox) . 385 — and dyspepsia (Inman) . 186 "Phocomele" monster (Martin St. Ange) 404 Phonetics, recent (Merkel) . 298 Phosphates, syrup of, in stomatitis inaterna (Fountain) . . 225 Phosphorus in palsy of the muscles of the eye (Tavignot) . . . 155 — incendiarism and poisoning by (Biinau) 434 — do. (Biirnann) 475 — poisoning by (Hoffmann) . 438 — do. (Filhol, Lewinsky) 439 — do. (Hartlng, Hauff, Mulder, Schuchardt, Zeidler) . . 440 — do. (Bocker, Kopf, Schaller)440 | Phosphorus, detection of, in poison (Scherer) 438 1 BtbUU pulinonalis (Moore) . 206 — in children (Moore) . . 393 — and dilatation of bronchi (Barth) 208 — omputation of foot (Richardson) 206 — non-prevalence in Hebrides (Morgan) 216 — diagnosis by microscope (Brown) 205 — do. (do.) 212 — treatment of (Smith) . . 216 — new remedies for (Bottini) . 220 — hydrochloric acid in (Cotton) . 218 — hypophosphites in (Quain) . 211 — iodide of iron in (Cotton) . 138 — saturnine medication in (Beau) 207 — tartar emetic in (Fonssagrives) 210 — warm climates in (Forget) . 259 — mineral waters in (Durand-Fardel) 208 — French millstone makers' (Peacock) 208 — do. (do.) 488 Physical sciences, introduction (Bird) 2 Physics, chemical (Cooke) . 6 — do. (Miller) . 2 Physiological action of food, medicine, and poison .... 55 Physiology, lecture on (Brinton) . 1 — human (Marshall) . . 4 — do. (Vierordt) . . 1 — essentials of (Hilles) . . 1 ■— handbook of (Kirkes) . . 1 — operative (Bernard) . . 6 — of common life (Lewes) . 1 — vegetable . . . 114 Pia mater, melanotic sarcomata of (Virchow) 168 Piarrhoetuia, with acute diabetes mellitus (Coote) .... 198 Pidduck, vapour bath in idiopathic tetanus 156 PiEDTACHE, epidemic dysentery . 233 Pieplu Jlls, tannin injections in vesical catarrh . . . .236 Pierre, butyric acid in ciders, marsh water, dunghills, &c. . . . 487 Pigment in cerebral vessels (Stein) 167 — anomalous, of skin (Hebra) . 249 — of urine (Munk) . . 108 PiNCtrs, volumetrical analysis of phosphoric acid by acetate of uranium . 96 — detection of essential oil of mustard 465 I'iorry, nervous affections . 154 — angina pectoris . . . 155 — cure of muscular pain by shampooing 185 — constitutional iodism . . 262 Pippingskoeld, puerperal fever.Helsingfors 381 PntniE (W.) on favus — principles and practice of surgery 2G4 — puerperal eclampsia . . 383^ Pitha, writer's cramp cured by electricity 155 — inflammotion of cranial sinuses 190INDEX. 555 Pith a, inflammation of cranial sinuses 294 — do. . 427 — separation of mucous membrane in laryn- gotomy . . . • 218 — treatment of fractures . . 280 Pitma>", abscess of prostate gland 320 — and Page, oedema of glottis; tracheo- tomy; fatal . . .298 Pitting, prevention of, in smallpox (Stokes) 251 Pituitary body, pathology of (Michel) 38 — do. (do.) . 152 Pityriasis rubra acuta (Orr) . 247 Placenta, management of (Newman) 350 — extraction of, in abortion (Lize) 359 — detachment of (Lowes) . 349 Placenta, abnormal conditions . 347 Placenta, morbid adhesion of (Delhaye) 348 — double battledoor (Davis) . 347 — prrcvia (Wegscheider) . . 347 — do. (Wardell) . . 348 — proevia succenturiata (Kuenecke) 347 — retained, in uterus (Ogle) . 347 — do. (Carter, Halliday) 348 — post-partum detachment of (Clay) 340 Plagge, hyperemia of spinal cord from exertion . . . .153 Placer, gases of the urine and exudations 102 Plants, nitrogen of (Cameron, Lawes) 114 — water absorbed by (Duchartre) 114 Plaster of Paris bandage (Fleming) 286 Plasters, medicinal (Masson) . 248 Platina wire, production of ozone by heating by electric current (Le Roux) . 124 Pleura, laceration of, &c. (Tatum) 282 — sanguineous effusions into (Trousseau) 218 Pleural effusions, thoracentesis nnd iodine injections in (Baisle) . . 207 Pleurisy, latent (Burton) . 208 — subacute idiopathic (Moore) . 205 — do. (do.) . 393 — empyema from (Baccelli) . 207 Pleurisy and thoracentesis (Aran) . 220 Pleuritic exudations, resorption of (Skoda) 214 Plexus, cceliae, functions of (Budge) 44 — mesenteric, functions of (Budge) 44 Plica Polonica (Hoffmann, Kopczynski, Lcvi- seur, Raciborski) . . 250 Ploss, proportion of sexes in children 337 — vaginal inspection . . 386 Pneumatoses of body (Patruban) . 134 Pneumonia, cases of (Poncet) . 207 — hospital cases of (Gairdner) . 211 — of left lung (Murney) . . 205 — lobar (Leonhardi) . . 207 — of lower lobe (I)ienstl) . 190 — acute sthenic (I'arkes) . 210 — chronic, with caverns (Munk) . 20G — mortality in (Oallavardin) . 218 — treatment (Brandes) . . 219 — do. (Kohlhardt) . . 220 Pnoumonia, treatment (Lawson) . 142 — do. (VVilks) . 206 — expectant method in (Legendre) 207 — use of Major's hammer in (Aran) 207 — digitalis in (Traube) . . 219 — kermes and digitalis in (Millet) 221 — veratria in (Vogt) . . 213 — hypostatic (Klob) . . 429 — typhoid (Kennedy) . . 206 — broncho-fibrinous (Oalassi) . 219 — pleuro-thoracentesis in (Monteils) 207 — dyspncea in (Oppolzer) . 219 — emphysema in (Patruban) . 205 — in case of endocarditis (Lebert) 187 — and rheumatic hemiplegia (Bourdon) 156 — herpes in (Drasche) . 221 Pneumothorax (Thompson) . 205 — idiopathic (Thorburn) . 213 — recovery (Ranking) . 187 Poelman, diagnosis of apoplexies . 46 Poggiaee, improvements in fabrication of lucifers . . . .490 Poiseuille, pressure of blood in the arterial system .... 32 Poison, physiological action of . 55 Poison, transference from blood to alimentary canal (Taylor) . . . 68 — muscular (Bernard) . . 65 — febrile, elimination of, by internal erup- tions (Rennie) . . . 223 Poisons and poisoning , , 436 Poisoning, cases of (Casper, Faber, Heller, Hofmann) . . .436 — death by (Niemann) . . 436 — analysis of tea for (Heller) . 443 — metallic, detection by electrolysis (Bloxam) 443 — arrow, of Indians (Walehuer) 457 — See the Names of poisons. Poland, rupture of popliteal arterv, &c. " 275 — enchondroma of fibula and tibia 280 — degenerated spontaneous hamiatocele 311 Polarity, organic (Baxter) . 3 Polarization in electricity, its influence on 51 237 nerves (Martin-Magron) Pollutions, diurnal (Hicquet) Polycoria, case of (Wilson) , Polypi, fibrous, at base of skull (Moore) 278 — do. removal — do., of antrum (Fergusson) — of the oesophagus (Middeldorpf) 224 do. (do.) — of the heart (Hudson) . — of rectum (Bryant) . — of rectum in children (Stoltz) — of female urethra (Thore) Polypi, uterine Polypi, uterine (Blozina, Demoi-quay, Johns, Goldsmith, Graham, Hewitt) .'368 • 188 377 328 417 295 227 310 398 368INDEX. ooti Polypus, uterine, treated by porehloride-of- iron injection (Grnhani) . . 368 — do., treated by ligature (Lumpe) 3G8 — do., spontaneous cure (MeClintock, Vel- peau) .... 368 — do., operation on (Higgler) . 368 — do., fibrous (Habit) . . 368 — do. do. (Ulricb) . . 369 Polyuria, steel in (Deebrey) . 236 Pomarel, self-injury on loss of consciousness 476 Poncet, cases of pneumonia . 207 Pons Varolii, anatomy of (Vulpian) 38 — physiology and pathology of (Brown- Sequard) ... 46 Poole, rapid labour . . 345 Poeges, nature of croup . . 397 Pobta, sebaceo-follicular tumours . 257 Porter, rupture of the heart . 187 Position, knee and elbow, in midwifery (Dornse'.f) . . .359 — sedentary, in parturition (Hardey) 359 Potassa in cutaneous diseases (White) 251 — broino-arseniate of (Clemens) . 248 — chlorate of, for detection of poisons (Glover) .... 444 Potassium, bromide of (Pfaffer) . 239 — do., in vesical catarrh (Meinhard) 234 — cyanide of, in neuralgia (Roche) 151 — do., poisoning by (Schauenstein) 459 — do., (Ebersberger, Wagner) . 460 — do., (Pinnell, Husemann) . 461 — do., suicide by . . . 460 — iodide of, in aneurisms (Bouillaud) 190 — do., in ulcers of legs (Trastour) 248 Pot/Chet (F.) genesis of proto-organisms in calcined air and putrescible substances 113 — substances introduced by air into respi- ratory organs . . . 116 Poverty in relation to disease (Easton) 480 Power, anatomy of the arteries and the heart . . . .27 Powers, diffusion of sanitary knowledge 480 Prall (S.) Marshall Hall treatment in asphyxia neonatorum . . 393 Pravaz (J. C. T.) physiological effects of compressed air . . . 131 Pregnancy, duration and signs . 337 Pregnancy, protracted (Tarneau) . 337 — and tumours, diagnosis between (Croft) 339 — abnormal (Hardey) . . 343 — multiple. See Birtlis. Pregnancy, diseases of • • 379 Pregnancy, signs and diseases of (Tanner) — obstinate vomiting in (Caradec, Petrc- quin, &c.) . . . 380 Pregnancy, unusual locality of . 340 Pregnancy, extra-uterine (Hecker) 340 Pregnancy, extra-uterine (Adam.-, CreW, Drage, Hicks, Jones, Lima, Marshall, Sanders, Snijders, Whitwell) . 342 — do. (Goodbrake, Lee, Ramsbotham) ;SJ2 — do., beyond full period (Hutchinson) 340 — do.; gastrotomy (Adams) . 311 — do.; abdominal section (Stutter) 311 — do., termination of old (Mattei) 341 — do. double (Rupin) . . 3)2 — ovarian (Willigk) . . 343 — tubal (Sanders, Snijders) . 342 — do. (Lee) . . .342 — do. (Grace, Kraus) . . 343 — do. (Holmes) . . . 343 — in rudimentary cornu (Virchow) 313 Pregnancy and abortion, medico-legal ques- tion .... 467 Presentations, unnatural, in delivery 340 Presentations, cranial, with occiput back- wards (Kehrer) . . 340 — facial (Helly, Keller, Siebold, Spaeth) 346 — do., forceps in (Helly) . . 358 — vertex, transverse positions of (Van Pelt) 340 Prevost (A. E.) binocular vision . 69 Price (P. C.) needle for metallic sutures 269 — scrofulous diseases of external lymphatic glands . . . .278 — disease of hip-joint; excision . 290 — fourteen calculi in bladder . 317 — lithotomy for third time . 317 Prichahd (A.) operative surgery in the provinces . . . 265 Pridham, treatment of asthma . 213 Priestley, large fibrous tumour of uterus 366 — tumour of labia pudendi . 375 — congenital extroversion of bladder 409 Printers, diseases of (Holsbeck) . 138 Prisons, influences in . 191 Prisons, influence of cell system in (Erlen- meyer) .... 491 — do., at Christiana (Busch) . 491 Privies, arrangement of (Reil) . 485 — emptying of, in large towns (Voigt) 487 — sanitary arrangement of, in Berlin (Sieber) 485 Procreation, delivery, &c. (Eichstedt) 336 Proctostenosis (Schwartz) . 224 Propylamine in rheumatism . 114 Prostate'in old age (Messer) . 1 28 Prostate, diseases of . • 320 Prostate, groups of diseases of (Ocsterreicher) 321 — abscess (Pitman) . • 320 — inflammation and abscess (Meade) 321 — corpora amylacea in (Ogston) . 133 _ do. (Paulitzky) 134 M Proto-organisms, genesis of, in calcined air and putrescible substances (Pouchct) 113INDEX. 557 Prurigo, treatment of (Hardy) . 252 Pruritus vulvae, arsenic in (Iinbert) 250 Prussia, variola in (M. d'Espine) . 138 Prussic acid, death from over-dose. 460 Psychiatrik . ■ • 177 Psyehiatrik, in its legal relations . 179 Psychical diseases of early life . 178 Psychology, forensic or legal . 471 Psychology, medico-legal (Willers-Jessen) 472 — competence of (Schlager) . 476 Ptosis, atonic, of eyelid (Sichel) . 327 Pubis, fracture of (Jamain, Paget). 314 Puerperal diseases . . 379 Puerperal diseases, contagious (Schulten) 381 — See Convulsions, Mania, &c. Puerperal fever . . • 381 Puerperal fever (Buhl, Giordano, Heiss, Schulten) . . . 381 — (Faye, Franque, Kerschensteiner, Pip- pingskoeld, Silberschniidt) 381 — (Copeman, Herman, Martinenq) 382 — formation of lymphatic elements in pleurae and lungs in (Wagner) . . 133 — digitalis in . . 418 Pugh. See Lawes. Pulmonary congestions (Delioux) . 207 — osmose (Mandl) . . 77 Pulsations, apparatus for registering (Marey) 34 Pulse, on tbe (Marey) . . 33 — the " sphvgmographion" in researches on (Marey) .... 34 — dependence of periods of circulation on rates of (Vierordt) . . 30 Pulverisation of medicated liquids (Sales Girons) . . . .207 Punishment, in respect of corporeal injuries (Santlus) . . .424 — immoderate, consequences of (Langendorf) 429 Pupil, contraction, by opium (Hughes) 60 — dilatation by belladonna (Hughes) 60 — congenital malformation (Browne) 408 Ptjrdon, aggravated hysteria . 151 — hypophosphates in gastric remittent fever 223 Pubseix, alcohol in exhausting diseases 139 Pus, formation of (Buhl, &c.) . 136 — development of (Weber) . 118 — composition of (Bodeker) . 118 — effusion of, into the joints (Banks) 403 Pustule, malign (Raimbert) . »247 — epidemic, at Inzenhof (Ott) . 253 Pctegnat, diseases of glasscutters of Bac- carat .... 489 Putrefaction, filtration of air in reference to (Schroder) . . .126 Putrescible substances, proto-organisins in (Pouchet) . . .113 Pyaemia (Rdser) . . .197 — (Steffcns) . . .402 Pyaemia, treatment (Roser) . 414 — with typhus fever (Milroy) . 194 — fatal, in inflammation of neck (Hawkins) 300 Pyogenic diathesis (Packard) . 137 Qitain (R.) aneurism of left femoral artery; compression . . • 274 — hydatid cyst in pelvis, &c _ . 277 — disease of knee-joint; amputation 291 — excision of scrofulous knee-joint 292 — fibrous tumour of superior maxilla 295 Quain (R., M.D.) hypophosphites of soda and lime in phthisis . . . 211 Quarantine, report on (Milroy) . 495 — New York report on . . 259 Quinia frictions in diseases of children (Se- manas) .... 422 Quinic-ether inhalations in ague . 413 Quinine, sulphate of, in puerperal eclampsia 383 Rabaine, dislocation of thumb Rabl, treatment of fractures Rachitis (Moeller, Trousseau) — lectures on (Jenner) — congenital (Hink) Rachitism (Deschamps) Racibokski, plica Polonica Radcliffe (C. B.) muscular 284 280 402 401 400 389 250 movements from action of galvanic current upon nerve 20 Radius, luxation of head of (Michon) 284 — disjunction of epiphysis (Smith) 285 Rage, morbid transports of . 476 Raimbebt, malign pustule . 247 Ramsbotham, extra-uterine fcetation 342 — and Adams, extra-uterine gestation; gastrotomy after death of foetus 341 Ramollissement, slow cerebral (Teissier) 172 Ramskill, chronic myelitis . 156 — wasting palsy . . .156 Ranking, pneumothorax; recovery 187 Rape, in somnambulism (Schuemacher) 470 Raff, hernia of obturator foramen 309 Rattingee, murder bv the student Ferner 476 Rauchfuss, thrombosis of the ductus arte- riosus .... 202 — do. . . . 397 Rawt.inson, water supply to towns 481 Raymond, rheumatic fever with endocarditis 187 Reactions, chemical, of strychnia (Letheby) 454 do. (Wormley) 453 Readen, syphilitic and cutaneous disease (Vienna Hospital report) . 249 Reciinitz, laceration of vagina . 375 Recklinghausen, miliary tubercle in mus- cles of heart , . . 188 Rectum, malformation* and diseases 309:>:>* INDIA. Rectum, congenital malformations (Curling) 309 — do. (Ashton, Dodenhamer) 810 — do. (Bodenbamer) . 409 — diseases, &o. (Ashton) . . 310 — malignant disease, Amussat's opcrntion (Wnrd) .... 311 — compression by dislocated uterus (Ulricli) 364 — puncturo of, in case of hvdntid (Qunin) 277 — imperforate (Naudin) . . 399 — do. (Wallace) . . 410 —i do. Littre's operation (Johnson) 409 — polypus of (Bryant) . . 310 — do. in children (Stoltz) 398 — prolapsus of (Smith) . . 310 — do. nitric-acidapplication (Smith) 310 — do. (do.) . 417 — stricture of (Russell) . . 225 — do. syphilitic (Nekton). 227 — ulceration of (Rouse) . . 310 Redenbaciiee, dropsical transudations in cirrhosis of liver . . . 236 Redwood, arsenic and antimony in gray powder .... 444 Rees (0.) obliteration of superior vena cava, &o 190 — strumous ulceration of larynx, &c. 300 Keflex movements, produced by sympathetic nerve (Bernard) . . .38 Refraction of the eye, differences of (Dor) 69 Regeneration of bone (Bourguet) . 16 — of resected bones (Hein) . 280 Registration, the annual report of Registrar- General (for 1858) . . 478 — weekly returns for 1860 . 479 — quarterly returns for 1859-60 . 479 — of Scotland, sixth annual report (for 1860) 479 Regxattid (J.) fluorescence of the media of the eye . . • .69 Reid (J. S.) typhoid fever . . 139 — aneurism of abdominal aorta . 187 — respiratory distress with lesion of the heart .... 196 Reil, Egypt for European invalids 263 — arrangement of privies . . 485 Relaxation ofligamentou8tisBUCs(Linhart)334 Relief, sensation of a body in, from a single picture (Boblin) ... 70 Religious revivals (Bushnan) . 177 — do. hysteria . 179 Rejiak, centripetal action of constant gal- vanic current on the nerves . 50 Renault, disinfecting powder . 487 Rennie, intestinal ulceration, &c. . 223 Rkvouaud, on medical doctrines (experi- ment) - . . • . . 150 Resection*.- See Excision*. Resorption of pleuritic exudations(Skoda) 214 Respiration, bronchial (Bloodgood) 211 — niechunical influence of, on the circulation (Frappier) . . .76 — influence of irritation of vagus nerve on (Budge) .... 81 Respiration, organs of . . 75 Respiration, organs of*, substances introduced by air into (Pouchet) . .110 Respiration, organs of, diseases of 205 Respiration, organs of, diseases of, at Mont Doro (Mascarel) . . . 207 Respiration, organs of, disorders in children 392 Respiration, organs of, in children, treatment of affections of (Jacobi) . . 421 Respiratory distress, with lesion of the heart (Reid) .... 196 Respiratory movements in compression of the brain (Hegelmayer) . . 82 — do. intra-uterine (Schultze) 337 Respiratory murmur (Salter) . 80 Responsibility, medical . . 466 Responsibility, question of, in case of imbeci- lity and incendiarism (Krauss) . 475 — question of, in case of theft (Hofmann) 476 — of murderer prompted bv excessive love (Hofmann) . . .476 Ressel, dislocation of thumb . 284 Rest, therapeutic influence of, in 6urgical diseases (Hilton) . . 265 — in accidents, &c. . . 417 Retina, excitement of, its influence on the visual axes (Graefe) . . 72 — apoplexy of (Wordsworth) . 331 — detached, cure of (Sichel) . 831 Retzius, ethnology : form of the skull 2 Retmakk, congenital pemphigus . 249 — artificial premature labour . 353 — forceps operation, fatal to child 358 — inversion of uterus . . 364 — eclampsia parturicntium . 384 Retkolds, diphtheritic paralysis . 171 Rheumatic affections (Arnott) . 147 Rheumatic peripheral paresis (Chalons) 158 Rheumatism, electro-magnetism in (Trist) - 258 — in Indio (Gordon) . . 140 — acute, connection of chorea with (Child) 153 — do. citric acid in (Hartnng) . 413 — chloroform in (Little) . . 151 — opiated colchicuin wine in (Eisenmann) 413 — propylamine in . . • 414 — arthritic (Stefl'ens) . .402 — cerebral (Bonifaz) . • 161 — do. (Roux) . -156 — do. protracted (Griesinger) 188 — of diaphragm (Chenevier) . 185IXDEX. 559 Rheumatism, gonorrhoea! and syphilitic (Duncalfe) ... 144, _ do. (do.) 323 — gonorrhceal, simply urethral (Elliotson) 147 Rhus radicans in incontinence of urine (Desc6tes) . . -236 Ribs, fracture of (Bryant) . 282 — do. (Tatura) . 282 — do. death from (Hawkins) 299 Rib, second, fracture of (Bastian) . 283 Rib-cartilasje, anomalies of (Freund) 393 Ricci, alnm and ice in hanuatemesis 223 _ do. . 231 Richardson (B. TV.) on the study of disease by synthesis ... 15 — influence of oxygen on the body 55 — properties of the peroxide of hydrogen 62 — synthesis of cataract . . 71 — do. . 331 — fibrinous deposition in the heart 191 — case of cyanosis . . 204 — phthisis; amputation of the foot 206 — sound from action of heart on the lung 210 — uramiia . . . 216 Richart, on argillaceous earth . 248 Rtchelot, thermal waters of Mont Dore in asthma .... 155 — obstinate vomiting in pregnancy 380 Rickeh, murder in a mill at work . 435 Rickets, lectures on (Jenner) . 401 — See Rachitic. Ricord, on iodism . . 146 — constitutional iodism . . 262 Ridsdale, delivery of living child thirteen months after ovariotomy. . 374 Rienderhoef, action of santonin . 260 — See Masselt. Rigby (J.) cases of lithotomy . 317 RiGLEE, icterus from steatosis of liver 235 — bursting of ovarian cyst . 372 Riggler, operation on uterine polypus 368 Rigor after death by lightning (Miirklin) 434 Rilliet, iodism . . . 138 — constitutional iodism . . 262 — dilatation of the stomach . 227 RrNDFLEisn. See Buhl. Ringer (Sydney) alteration of pitch of sound in different media . . 32 — alteration of pitch of cardiac murmurs through thoracic organs . 32 -r- sugar and urea in urine of diabetes mellitus 103 Ringworm, powder of bahia for (Little) 422 Riquabd, artificial premature labour 353 — uterine cancer . . . 366 Ritter, medical detection of blood-stains 432 Ritter, protection against cholera 495 Rizzoli and Yerardini, Cesarean section 356 Roberts (W.) daily changes of urine 101 — sugar in diabetic urine . . 106 — treatment of diabetes . . 245 — unusual forms of paralysis . 157 Robin (C.) minute structure of umbilical vesicle .... Ill — sarcoptes of itch in man . 219 — See Sappey. Robin and Tardieu, microscopical examina- tion of stains . . . . 430 Roche, cyanide of potassium in neuralgia 151 Rodet, treatment of acne . . 249 — pommade for acne . . 413 Rodgehs. See Versmann. Roell, asylum for insane at Dordrecht 178 Roemeh, ovariotomy . . 373 Roger, auscultation of the head . 154 — closure of anterior f'ontanelle . 886 Rogers (Jos.) idiopathic tetanus . 154 — retroversion of gravid uterus . 363 Rokitanskt, new formation of liver-tissue 134 — moveable spleen . . 285 — glandular tumours in liver . 236 — fatal steatosis of liver and kidneys 237 — abnormal corpus luteum . 361 — accessory tubarostico . . 361 — atresia of uterus bicornis . 364 Roller, mental derangements, criminal re- lations of . . .472 Rolleston, pathology of the cerebellum 161 Rollet, plurality of venereal diseases 322 Ronzier-Jolt, arsenic in acute chorea 157 — tartar emetic in croup . . 206 Roscoe, arsenic-eating in Styria . 61 Rose (E.) santonine . . 258 Rose (H. C.) poisoning by alcohol 465 Rosenkranz, double amputations . 272 Rosenthal (J.) specific energies of the nerves .... 52 — on the vallian law in irritability of nerves ... 52 — influence of high temperature on motor nerves .... 47 — See Bezold. . Roser, pyccmia . . . 197 — treatment of pycemia . . 414, — tracheotomy in croup . . 206 — dysentery and cholera infantilis, 1859 225 — paralytic form of dysentery . 228 Roser (W.) anatomical surgery . 264 — twisted suture . . . 269 Ross, inflammatory head affections 152 Rosstock, murder of child by preventing respiration . . . 435 Roth, syphilitic gummatous tumour of dura mater . . , 152 — • do. 828.INDEX. 560 Rotiiamel, analysis of spotsof meconium, ic; case of concealment of birth . 470 Rotten, case of perityphlitis . 223 Roubaix, rupture of per inieuni; perinceoplasty 375 Rouet, cerebral rheumatism . 15G Rouoet (C.) action of nicotinon the heart 61 — movements and convexity of the iris 69 — non-existence of posterior chamber in the eye . . . .69 — gubernaculum testis and descent of the testicle . . . .96 — amyloid substances in tissues of animals 122 Rouse (J.) strangulated hernia . 306 — ulceration of rectum . . 310 — division of ciliary muscle in glaucoma 330 Routh, hydatidiform degeneration of ovum 348 — menorrhagia treated by injection and scraping of uterus . . 367 — on infant feeding and infant mortality 389 Roux. See Rouet. Roux (Jules) obstruction of intestine, with inguinal hernia . . . 222 — do. . 228 — do. . 303 — deligation in wounds of arteries 276 Roux (L.) diastase in dyspepsia . 224 — do. . 225 Roux fils, compression and puncture in chronic hydrocephalus . . 391 Roy, procidentia uteri; metritis . 364 Rubeola, with pus in the joints (Banks) 137 _ do. (do.) 403 Rumination, on (Dumur) . 86 — in man (Hempel) . . 85 Rupin, double extra-uterine foetation 342 Russell (Jas.), cases of epilepsy . 152 — syphilitic disease of cranium . 162 — do. . 323 — use and abuse of opium . 171 — disease from mental influence . 178 — stricture of rectum . . 225 — tracheotomy; necrosis of thyroid, &c. 300 — malignant disease of bladder . 316 Rusteoho, hysterical paraplegias . 177 Saccharine function of the liver (Harley) 88 — do. (Pavy) 89 Saccharine fermentation in female breast (Gibb) . . . .93 — See Sugar. Sacke, idiopathic contraction . 155 Saint Amancl sulphurous waters in uterine disease (Charpentier) . . 368 Saint-Ange. See Martin St. Ange. Sales Gieons, medicated liquids respirable by pulverization . . . 207 Sales Girons. See Vogler. Salicine in ague . . . 259 Saliva, average secretion of . 84 — temperature of (Ludwig) . 82 — period of transformation of starch into dextrin and sugar by (Vintschgau) 86 Salivary calculus in a new-born child (Clo- quet) .... 83 Salivary glands, tumours of (Billroth) 278 Salpingitis puerperalis (Vocke) . 370 Salt and conia, Wundt's experiments with (Kolliker) . . .65 Salts, on (Odling) . . .2 — action of, on the red corpuscles (Botkin) 199 — metallic, action of solution of, on motor nerves (Eulenberg) . . 64 — fatty, of mercury, dynamic action of (Jeannel) . . .130 Saltee (Hyde) respiratory murmur 80 — on asthma . . . 205 Saltee (S. J. A.) fracture of superior maxilla 281 — ovarian tumour containing teeth, hair, &c. . . . . 372 Samuel, inflammation from irritation of nerves . . . " . 189 — inflammation from irritation of nerves 200 Sandahl, paralysing muscular atrophy 185 Sandees, tubal pregnancy . 342 — open ductus arteriosus . . 406 Sandeeson (Dr. J. Burdon) report on legal medicine and public hygiene . 423 — diphtheritic sore throat . 226 — report on dipththeria in English counties 494 Sanguinaria Canadensis, value of, as a remedy (Gibb) . . ... 59 — do. (do.) 141 Sanitaria for poor of Glasgow (Macleod) 481 Sanitary condition, annual reports of medical officers of health of metropolis . 4S0 — quarterly reports of St. George's, Hanover Square . . . .480 — do. AYhitechapel. . 480 — report on health of St. Marvlebone (Thomson) . . . ' 484 — in Liverpool (Newlands) . 481 — of low parts of Glasgow (M'Gill, Watson) 481 Sanitary knowledge, diffusion of (Powers) 480 -J Sanitary legislation, recent (Lankester) 4S0 Sanitary reform (M'Gowan) . 480 Sanitary report to Privy Council (Simon) 477 Sanson (A.) glycogene in organs of herbivora, &c. . . . .123 Santesson, abscess on sacro-iliac symphysis and in ovary . .372INDEX. Santesson, deficiency of vagina; operation and subsequent symptoms . 409 Saxtlus, increase of mental disorders, from disease of sexual functions . 183 — punishment in respect of corporeal in- juries . . • • 424 Santonine (Betz, Lohrmann, Rose) 258 — action of (Falck, &c.) . . 260 — do. (Hasselt) . . 458 — employment in affections of the eye (Mar- tini) . . , . • 71 — coloration of vision and urine by (Mar- tini) .... 71 Sappey and Robin, vascular anastomoses in cirrhosis of liver . . 231 Sarcina ventriculi (Lowe) . . 224 Sarcina in urine (Weleker) . 110 Sarcoma, with cancer and glandular tumour (Wagner) . . . 133 Sarcomata, melanotic, of pia mater (Virchow) 168 Sarsaparilla in syphilis (Sigmund) . 147 Saturnine disease . . . 258 — .... 261 — .... 452 — See Lead. Satrel, chloroform curative in oesophageal constriction . . . 262 Sausages, poisoning by (Tripe) . 461 — do. (Schroter) . 461 Sauyin, amyloid degeneration of kidneys 236 Sayoby, fatal encephalitis . 293 Sawyeb, carcinoma of uterus; extirpation 366 Satre, on curare in tetanus . 175 Scalds of the glottis (Sloane) . 209 — of the larynx (Bevan) . . 209 Scalp wound ; trephining, &c. (Paget) 293 Scanzoni, decapitation instruments 357 — ovulation during pregnancy . 361 — prolapsus uteri; removal of vaginal por- tion . . . w 365 — periodical hydruria . . 367 — urticaria from irritation of female sexual organs .... 367 Scapula, deformity of (Eulenberg) . 334 — compound fracture of (Solly) . 284 — fracture of (Skey) . . 283 Scarlatina (M'tiee). . . 138 — (Chrastina, Dciters, Eulenberg, Feitel, Stiebel) . . . .402 — (Clemens, Siemon-Dawosky) . 402 — and its sequela- (Turner) . 139 — complication with tuberculosis (Foerster) 402 — dropsy of (Fallor) . . 402 — lard-inunction in (Schneeman) . 402 ScnAEPF.n (E.) analysis of the bile of a criminal .... 91 Schafer, normal heart-sounds . 201 ScnAGEHSTRoM, induction of premature labour .... 353 Schaible, pretended mania . 466 SciiALLEit, poisoning by phosphorus 440 Sen vrlavj, substitute for human milk 389 ScnAUENSTEiN, cyanide of potassium 459 Schelske, action of heat upon the henrt 31 — and Wundt, chemical irritants of muscle 24 — See Wundt. Sciierer, hypoxanthin, xanthin, and guanin, in the body ... 10 — detection of phosphorus in poisoning 488 Schifp (J. M.) physiology of inhibitory nerves .... 48 — function of posterior columns of spinal cord . . . .38 — fever heat . . . 134 137 Schildbach, the water cure . 138 — literature of sea-bathing . 260 Schillbach, resection of upper extremities 289 Schindleb, suffocation . . 434 — remains of child found in water 470 Schirmeb, diseases of miners of Griineberg 489 Scheagee, competence of legal psychology 476 Schleiss, dynamics of inflammation 189 — symptomatic pain in the knee in inflam- mation of hip-joint . . 288 Schlossberger, bile of the kangaroo 129 Sciimeisser (R.) on urine containing tyrosin 107 Schmid, bodily and mental state of a child- murderer . . . 476 Schmidt (B.) tracheotomy in laryngeal croup 206 Schmidt (C.) sugar in the blood of the portal and sub-hepatic veins . 90 — " animal starch," substance of amylaceous corpuscles . . . 122 Schmidt, attempted hanging . 434 — and Bretschneider, poisonous action of metallic arsenic . . . 444 — and Chomse, oxide of kakodyl . 445 — and Sturzwage, arsenious acid, influence on exchange of material . . 445 Schmit, absence of bladder, hypertrophy of kidney, &c. . ; . 409 Schmitt, statistics, Munich Lying-in Hos- pital . . . .360 Schjiitt (A.) peliosis rheumatica of children 403 SCHHITZj osteomalakial pelvis in labour 344 Schmitzlein, scarlet fever . 402 ScnNEEMAN, lard-inunction in scarlet fever and measles . . . 402 Schneider, Marsh's apparatus in arsenic poisoning . . . 442 — partial hypospadias ; divorce case 467 Sohneideriam membrane, lymphatics of, (Simon) . . . .74 Schnitzler, idiopatic meningitis . 152 SchoPFEB. Sec Erlenmeyer. Scholz, concretions in the lungs • 206 36INDEX, 502 Sotioenfei.d, case of twins . 347 Schools, physical education in (Schranbe, Sehreber) . . . 491 Schottin, fermentation in the stomach 230 BoTntAKif, neuralgia of brachial plexus 152 SoHRATJBB, attention to health in schools 491 SonREBER, kyphosis osteopathica . 402 — on children's games, in physical and mental aspect . . . 491 ScnnoDEit (H.) filtration of air, in reference to putrefaction, fermentation, and crystal- lization .... 126 Schroder v. der Koltc, on counter-irritants in epilepsy . . . 170 — allantoic, its formation and changes 337 Schroff, hellebore . . . 259 — hellebore and veratrum album . 456 — is metallic arsenic poisonous ? . 444 — poisonous action of taxus baccata 457 Schhoteh, fracture of basis cranii and cal- varium . . . . 428 — poisoning by sausages . . 461 Scnr/CHARDT, poisoning by phosphorus 440 Scmra (F.) arthroxerosis, &c. . 288 Schtjh, iodine in ovarian cysts . 375 Schueler, eczema of children . 248 — do. . 403 Schtlten, contagious puerperal diseases 381 Schttetz (H.) wadding bandage . 286 Schultze, intra-uterine respiratory move- ments .... 337 Schumacher, child-murder, attempted abor- tion, &c. . . . 469 — rape in somnambulism . . 470 — mental condition of person accused of arson .... 476 Schwalbach waters in uterine catarrh (Frick- hoefTer) . . . .. 368 Schwartz, proctostenosis . . 221 — morbus Brightii, in connection with typhus .... 246 Schwabz, medical knowledge of Tahiti 258 — Chinese medicines . . 258 Schwegee, joints of pelvic bones in par- turition .' . .339 Sciatica (Jobert, Tartivel, Trousseau, Vin- cent) . . . . 155 Scirrhus of breast (Fergusson) . 379 — do.; removal, tetanus (Fergusson) 268 — do. j excision (Fergusson) . 279 Sclerema of infants (Loeschner) . 387 Scoliosis habitualis (Eulenberg) . 333 Scotland, smallpox in (Wood) . 137 Schiba, on blood-stains . . 4-31 ScrofUla of external lymphatic glands (Price) . . . .278 — of synovial membrane (Harwell) 287 Scrophularia minor in hemorrhoid* (finis- hed^ . . . .225 Scrotum .... 811 Scrotum, oedema of; gangrene (Erichsen) 311 Scurvy (Ward) . . .188 Sea-bathing (Sehildbach) . . 260 S<a-s'.cknesn (Guilhibert) . . 155 Secale cornutum, action of (Willebrand) 204 SECOND-I-'EKfioL, perforation in peritonitis 225 Secondi, traumatic electric chorea 156 Secretory system . 87, &c. — diseases of . . 234 Secundinrs, abnormal conditions of 347 — See Placenta. Sedgwick, aconite in tetanus . 160 Seeing . . . » 69 Seoalas, nitrate of silver in diseases of genito-urinary organs . . ' 242 Seitz, medical geography . . 260 Selinum palustre in epilepsy (Herpin) 155 Seexer, proportion of solids in urine of health and disease . . 96 Semanas, frictions with quinia in diseases of children . . . 422 Semilunar valves, mechanism of (Mierswa) 29 Seminal losses (Dicenta) . . 235 Senator, on infraction . . 281. Sendeer, tracheotomy in croup . 396 Sensation, reflex, recurrent sensibilitv in (Gubler) . . 38 Senses, the. . . . ' 69 Senses, organs of the (Nourse) . 2 Senses, organs of, diseases in children 390 Sensibility, different degrees of, in same nerve (Budge) . . .42 — experiments on (Brown-Sequard) 49 — cutaneous, lesions of, in insane (Auzonv) 179 — recurrent, a phenomenon of reflex sensaJ tion (Gubler) . . .38 Septicaimia (Finger) . . 100 Septum ventriciuorum, opening in (Hare) 406 Serous cavities, admission of air into (Meadows) . • . .208 Sekres, rudiments of embryo . Ill — formation of cerebro-spinal axis 111 ■ — development of spinid cord . Ill Servent, hydrochloric acid in niembranouH angina .... 224 Sestier. See Leudet. Seutin's method for strancrulated hernij (Delhaye) . - ■ _ 30B Sewage (Daubeny) • 485 *M — disinfection of, at Carlisle (Smith) 48fl — of Paris (Clievallier) . . ffl — do. (I/Hote) 48B — hydropneumatic method of removing, aflj Turin and Milan (Finkelnburg) . 487 ■ — water, manure from (Blyth) . ^ Sewell on curare in tetanus . ' Sewqf air, influence on man . "-j — gases, poisonous effects t .1XDEX. 563 Sex of fcetus, diagnosis (Breslau, &c.) 338 Sexes, proportion of, in children (Ploss) 337 Shakespeare, medical knowledge of (Buck- nill) . . . .2 Shampooing, cnre of muscular pain by (Piorry) . . . .185 Stiarkev, distinction of diphtheria and croup • 214 — hysterical amaurosis . . 332 Shearer, leucocythemia . . 197 Sheep, analysis of milk from (Filhol) 129 SniLLiTOE (B.) catheter for dilatory stric- tures . . . .313 Shoulder-joint, injuries about (Skey) "283 — luxations of (Steiger) , . 284 — excision of (King) . . 289 SnorT, poisoning by white precipitate 449 Sibson (F.) medical anatomy . 1 — See Alder-ion. Sichel, congenital internal epicanthus, &o. 327 — granular lids . . . 328 — cure of detached retina . 331 — Hippocrates on vision . . 326 Sickness, morning, as a symptom (Tnman) 229 Siebexjiaar, injuries of head . 430 — and Lehmann, poisoning by charcoal vapour .... 464 Sieber, sanitary arrangement of privies in Berlin .... 185 Siebold, closure of os uteri in delivery 345 — face presentations . . 346 — twin births . . . 346 — weight and length of new-bora children 386 Siemox-Dawosky, scarlet fever . 402 Sie Peking, murmur in pulmonary artery 191 Sight. See Vision; Eye. Sight, Bhort, &c. (Hancock) . 328 — do. division of ciliary muscle in (Solomon) . . . 332 Sigmund, sarsaparilla in syphilis . 147 — disease of hair in syphilis . 247 — hair in syphilis . . . 323 — syphilisation . . . 325 Signs, physical, on recording (Beale) 259 Sii/bekschmidt, pathology of childbed fever 381 Srr.VA. See Da Silva. Silver, deposits of, in intestines in case of argyria (Frommann) , . 1G1 — nitrate of, in diphtheria (ITauner) 141 — do. in diseases of genito-urinary organs (Segalas) . . . 242 ■ SlMON (E.) lymphatics of Schneiderian membrane . . .74 Simon (G.) horsehair for the bloody suture 270 — Crcsarean section . . 356 — atresia? of female sexual organs 30 L — intestino-vaginnl fistulce , 376 Simon (G.) recurrent sarcomatous tumours in labia majora . . 37G — rows of sutures for union of wounds 269 Simon (John) excision of knee-joint 291 — cystotomy for piece of bougie in bladder 318 — Report of officer of health to Privy Council .... 477 Simon (Max) abscess of liver discharging into bronchi . . . 235 Simon (S.) See Biichner. Simpson (A.) vesico-vaginal fistula, at Dacca 376 Simpson (A. R.) intra-uterine smallpox 407 — amputation of cervix uteri for cancer 366 Simpson (J. Y.) acupressure in surgical haemorrhage . . . 276 — acupressure in amputations . 27G — cranioelasm . . . 856 — dropsy, &c, of fallopian tubes . 370 — ovarian dropsy, treatment . 372 — puerperal mania and hypochondriasis 384 Simulated diseases . . 466 Siredey, pathological alterations of uterine appendages . . . 370 Siry, biliary calculus through abdominal parietes ... . . 236 Sisson (11. S.) tonics in asthenic dropsy 187 Sissons (H.) dislocation of humerus into sub- scapular fossa . . . 284 Skae, general paralysis . . 183 Skey, lecture on tetanus . . 267 — puncture of ascending aorta by needle; death . . . .273 — false axillary aneurism . 274 — injuries about the shoulder-joint 283 — sero-cystic disease of jaws . 295 — malignant disease of upper jaw 295 — lithotrity without chloroform . 319 Skin, influence of nerves on nutrition of (Brown-Sequard) . . 250 Skin, diseases of . . 247 Skin, diseases of (Barensprung) . 255 — do. (Duchesne) . 255 — do. (Hardy) ' . 254 — do. (Jordan) . 247 — do. atlas (Hebra) . 217 — do. from nerve affections (Charcot) 247 — do. arsenic in (Buntzen) .218 — do. decayed oakwood in (Devergie) 248 — do. potash in (White) . 251 — do. chloride of zinc in (Veiel) , 252 Skin, diseases of, in children . 402 Skin, amvlaceous corpuscles in (Luys) 134 — citatrix-like streaks in, in pregnant women (Cr&l6) .... 339 — emphysema of (Strauss) . 301 — horns (Heschl) . , 277INDEX. 30-t Skin, neuralgia of (Bourguignon) . 153 — hypertrophic tumours of (Oilier) 248 — serpiginous ulcers of (Keller) 148 — do. (do.) 323 — anomalous pigment of (llebra) 249 — bronzed (Housley) 235 — do. with disease of supra-renal capsules (Peacock) . . .234 — do. with destruction of supra-renal oap- Bules (Leeming) . . 239 Skinner, chloroform in midwifery 360 ■ retroversion of gravid uterus . 363 — on oxalic acid . . . 438 437 Skipper v. Bodkin, want of testamentary capacity . . . .475 Skoda, cardiac neuralgia . . 155 — chorea .... 175 — resorption of pleuritic exudations 214 — etiology of peritonitis . . 224 — hooping cough . . . 395 Skull. See Cranium. Sleep, physiology of (Durham) . 43 — nervous (Azan) . . 2 Sloane, scalds of the glottis . 209 — do. . . 298 Smallpox. See Variola. Smart (T. T.) obstetric statistics . 361 Smelling .... 74 — a thief smeller (Ebers) . . 466 Smirnoff, treatment of alcoholism 413 Smith (A.) disinfection of sewage at Carlisle 486 Smith (A. H.) dyspnoea as cause of conges- tion of lungs . . . 215 Smith (D.) building act for large towns 481 Smith (E.) action of tea and alcohol on the animal economy . 55 — remarks on sunstroke . . 158 — treatment of phthisis . . 215 Smith (H.) aneurism, popliteal; "bursting of sac, &c. .... 275 — haemorrhoids and prolapsus of rectum, (nitric-acid treatment) . . 310 — prolapse of the rectum . . 310 Smith (J. L.) infantile affections . 393 Smith (O. H.) brandy injection in cholera 230 Smith (R. W.) disjunction of epiphysis of radius .... 285 — fracture of tibia . • 285 Smith (Tyler) on Hunter's doctrine of retro- version of gravid uterus . 362 Smoler, poisoning by croton oil . 458 Snow (E. M.) smallpox at Providence 138 Snuff containing lead (Sonnenkalb, Wickc) 452 Sodium in ague . . 259 — chloride of, detection in the air 5 Softening of the heart, primary (Wagner) 31 Solanum nigrum, poisoning by (Magne) 457 Solly, compound fracture of scapula 284 Solly, excision of knee-joint . 291 Solomon, division of ciliary muscle in short sight .... 332 Somnambulism (Mesnet) . . 2 Sonnenkalb, Schweinfurt green . 448 — lead in snuff . . . 452 Sorbets (L.) malformation of pelvis; podalic version .... 3445 Sore throat, diphtheritic (Sanderson) 220 — nervous (Gibb) . . . 205 Soroeb, Karlsbad for diseases of liver 235 Soubeiran, poisonous loranthus . 459 Soulier, on volvulus . . 224 Soclt, ruptured popliteal aneurism; gan- grene ; amputation; tetanus . 268 Sound, alteration of pitch of, in different media (Ringer) South, excision of knee-joint Spaeth, frontal presentations Spasm, laryngeal (Stiebel) — muscular (Natanson) — do. during desiccation (Harless) of 32 291 316 394 165 nerves 47 Spasmodic contractions, chloroform in (Aran) 152 Speaking, disorder of faculty of (Leviseur) 171 Spectra, optical, variation in size of (Laurence) 69 Spectrum-analysis in chemistry . 5 i Spence (J.) tracheotomy in croup 210 ' — do. . 299 I — do. . 396: — rupture of bladder . . 315 Spencer, gas leakage . . 481 Spender (J. K.) hypodermic action of mor- phia .... 152 — iced-water injection in post-partum hae- morrhage . . • 350 SFENGLEK,thermceof Ems in morbusBrightii, &c 206 _ do. . 236 Spermatorrhoea, perchloride of iron (Delean) — hydrotherapy in (Tartivel) . 237 Spermatozoa of'frog, vitality of (Mantegazza) Sphygmographion in researches on the pulso (Marey) . Spiegelberg (O.) development of ova 361 — ovarian cysts . • .3/1 Spina bifida,'composition of fluid from — of lumbar region (Broca) Spinal canal, effused products in, anfesth from (Ogle) . . -156 Spinal congestion during harvest of 181 (Duclaux) . . -154 Spinal cord, development of (Serres) 111 — structure of (Stilling) . • 37 — function of posterior columns (Schiff) 38 — compression of (Tiingel) • 281 34565 INDEX. Spinal cord, segment of, an independent centre of innervation (Yernay) . 155 — influence of, on lymphatic heart of batra- chin (Vulpian) . . .38 — injury to (Biichner) . . 429 — pathology of (Leuhossek) . 162 — disease of (Kbhler) . . 173 — do. (Oppolzer) . 172 Spinal cord, diseases of, in children 390 Spinal cord, pain in the hack in diseases of (Mayer) .... 165 — disease of gray matter of (Luys) 163 — amyloid degeneration of (Lahorde) 152 — degeneration of (Turck) . 173 — haemorrhages of (Dulaurier) . 151 — hyperamiia of, from exertion (Plagge) 153 Spine, diseases of (Hartmann) . 154 — curvature of (Coote) . . 333 — do. (Ulrich) . . 333 — do. (Bouvier). . 402 — irritation, ergot of rye in (Bree) 153 — ohstetric importance of lumhar part (Birn- haum) . . . .339 Spirometry, study of (Balfour) . 77 Spleen, constituents of (Bodeker) . 95 — complex disease of (Monneret) . 239 — displacements of . .235 — enlargement of (Jackson) . 237 — albuminoid infiltration of, in children (Jenner) . . .399 — moveable (Rokitansky) . 235 Splenic infarcta (Wagner) . 189 Splints, gutta-percha (Diirr) . 286 — resection (Esmarch) . . 289 — Savre's, for morbus coxarius (Edwards) 288 Spondli, perforation and cephalotripsy 357 Spontaneous generation in animals (Edwards) 112 — do. (Pasteur) 112-13 Speatly, instrument for vaccinating 260 Spring, dislocation of the heart . 189 Speing, unhealthy dwellings, shortening of life from . . . 481 Squamous disease (Moore) . 251 Square (J.) on ophthalmic surgery 326 Stake lmayee, accusation of child-murder 469 Stadion, action of corrosive sublimate 450 Staedeler (G.) on xanthin . 10 Stafford's perforator, in stricture (Hamilton) 314 Stains, microscopic examination of (Robin) 430 — See Blood-slains. Stanley, (E.) compound dislocation of ankle- joint; tetanus . . . 267 — do. . 286 — ligature of carotid for hemorrhage from tonsil, &c. 273 Stanley, extravasation of urine within the pelvis .... 313 — lithotomy in girl of thirteen years 320 Starch, period of transformation of, into dex- trin and sugar by the saliva (Vintschgau) 86 — difference from cellulose (Payen) 115 — transformation of, by bile (Nasse) 91 — animal, the substance of amylaceous cor- puscles (Schmidt) . . 122 Stabtin (J.) varices and bar needle and clasp 269 — staple-suture, without ligature 269 — division of muscles for cure of paralytic deformity of face . . 333 Starvation and exposure, death from (Kalisch) 434 Statistics, medical . . 478 Statistics, medical (Boudin) . 478 Steatosis of liver, icterus from (Rigler) 235 — fatal, of liver and kidneys (Rokitansky) 237 Steel in polyuria (Deebrey) . 236 Stefpens, arthritic rheumatism and pya?inia 402 Steiger, luxations of shonlder-joint 281 — bleedings from old strictures of urethra 315 Stein, pigment in cerebral vessels 167 Steinbeegee, formation of milk teeth 389 Steinthal, puncture in ovarian dropsv 374 Stellwag v. Caeion, ophthalmia granulosa 327 — ophthalmia neonatorum . 392 Stenosis of aorta (Forster) . . 200 Stereoscopic vision, physiology of (Jones) 70 — glasses for single pictures (Jones) 70 Sterility .... 467 Sterility, female (Hutin) . . 302 Sternum, fracture of (Tatum) . 282 Stertor, and its treatment (Bowles) 79 Stewabt (H. C.) phlebitis of femoral vein 273 Stich (A.) See Klaatsch. Stiebel, reports of Frankfort Hospital for Children . . .390 — laryngeal spasm . . 39 I — scarlet fever . . . 402 Stilling (B.) structure of spinal cord 37 — his researches on nerve fibre (Clarke) 39 Stimulation versus depletion (Fraser) 139 Stokes, prevention of pitting in small-pox 251 — and O'Feehall, obscure aneurism of the aorta . . . .197 Stoltz, polypi of the rectum in children 3985(36 LNDBX. 227 230 225 tie Stomach, cnncer of tlio (Brinton) . fl'i — do. • (Orton) . 225 — dilatation of (Rilliet) . ' — displacement of (Cumin) . 'll't — do. (do.) . 409 — fermentation in (Seholtin) — corrosive nicer of (Midler) Stomatitis, treatment (Brandon) . — syrup of phosphates in (Fountain) 225 — ulcerative (Cleveland) . . 223 Stone. Seo Calculus. Stramonium in hay asthma (Lawford) 214 Strangulation (Tardieu) . . ' 432 — death by (Niemann) . . 436 — internal, of intestine (Dcrobe) . 304 Strasser, collodion dressing . 270 Strauss (E.) emphysema of skin after con- tusions of chest » . . 301 Stricture, consequences of (Clark) . 312 — catheter for dilating (Slnllitoe) . 313 — of the vessels (Heine) . . 189 — See Rectum, Urethra, Sfc. Sthomei'er (L. D.) military surgery 265 Struma cystica (Friedb.erg, Lotzbeck) 242 Struthers, double uterus. . 404 Strychnia, chemical reactions of (Wormley) 453 — do. (Letheby) . 454 — in bronchocele (Murney) . 235 — do. (do.) . 240 — in'chronic diarrhoea (Dahl) . 225 — poisoning by (Osborn) . . 454 — do. (Paley) . . 453 — death of child from . . 454 — detection of (Jenkins) . . 454 — tannin an antidote to (Kurzak) . 454 — antagonism to woorara (Vella) . 67 — tetanus from, neutralised by woorara (Vella) .... 67 Studley, hot and cold stages and exacerba- tion of diseases ... 15 Stumps, dressing of, after amputation (Sy- monds) . . . . 271 — ne.crosis in (Berend) . . 272 Sturok, cardiac cyanosis . . 406 Sturzwage. See Schmidt. Stutter, extra-uterine fcetation; abdominal section .... 341 Styria, arsenic-eaters of (Heisch, Koscoe) 61 Submersion, death by (Beau) . 79 Sucking, fruitless, cause of infantile diseases (Ballard). . . .387 Sucquet, circulation of the blood in the limbs and head . "• . .27 Sudor miliaris, treatment of (DaudiS) 412 Suffocation (Schindler) . . 434 — influence! of, on quantity of blood in brain and lungs (Ackermann) . . 130 — do. (do.) . 433 — by food, in aged persons (Buys). 230 Sugar, grape and fruit, indigo as a test for (Mulder). . . .96 — in milk (Boudet) . . 92 Sugar, changes of, in the alimentary canal (Koebner) . .86 — formal ion of, in the body (M'Donnell) 87 — production of, in relation to re-absorption of fat (Colin) . ♦ - . 01 — in blood of portal and sub-hepatic veins (Schmidt) ... 90 — of liver (Thudichum) . . 90 — sugar-forming function of liver (l'uvy) h:l — from hepatic glueogene (Berthelot) " 88 —detection of, in theurine (Leconte) 96 — in urine of diabetes mellitus (Kinger) 103 — do. (Roberts) 106 — do. detection by sulphuric acid (M'Ghie) . . .96 — transformation of starch into, by the sa- liva (Vintschgau) . . 80 — cataract in frogs, from administration of (Mitchell) ... 70 Sugar candy, hypnotic properties of (Chate- lain) • . . . .154 Sugillation, influence of external pressure on (Moller) .... 428 Suicide, psychiatrics of (Midler) . 471 — prevalence of '(Hoffbauer) . . 471 — political, in France (I)es Etangs) 434 — by firearms (Brierre) . 434 — do. (Nusser) . 435 — by introduction of needles into brain (Angerstein) . . . 434 — by strangulation (Borchard) . 434 . — doubtful case of (Blosfeld) . 476 — or murder of a prisoner (Borchard) 434 — or murder (Hartung) . — do. (Maschka) . . 434 — question of, in death by gun-shot (Tardieu) 428 Suicidal mania (Mandy) . .431 Sulphur therma; of Aix-la-Chapelle, in sv^ philis (Wetzlar) . . .139 Sunstroke (Brougham) . . 151 — (Longhurst) . . . 158 \ — (Smith) . . . • . 158 i — prevalence among soldiers in campaign oj 1858 (Gordon) . — at Baroda (Chappie) Superfbetation (Kussmaul) . — (do.) Superimpregnation (Kussmaul) Supernumerary fingers, hereditary son) . , . . Suppuration, incipient, in liver (Traul>e) 223 — of knee-joint (Chassaignac) Suppurative diathesis (Packard) . 137 Supra-renal capsule-, disease of, without bronzed skin (Grossman) . 88 I — do. with bronzed skin (Peacock) 234 — do. do. (Leeming) . Surgery, Report on, by Mr. J. W. Hulke 2«| Surgery (Burggraeve) • 265 ^fc — science and art of (Erichscn, Pirrie) ~»* — general (Lohmcyer) . .261507 KNDJfiX. Surgery, manuals, text-books, Sfc. 264 Surgery, manual of (Bardeleben, Emmert) 264' — anatoiuical (Roser) . . 86ft — observations (Trovers') . . 261 — operative (Maunder) . . 265 — do. in the provinces (Prichard) 265 — special (Paul) . . . 261 — conservative, of limbs (Paul) . 264 — military (Stromeyer) . . 265 — do. oi' Indian campaign, 1857-8 (Brown) 265 — experiences at Bonn Clinic (Weber) 266 — operations, treatment before (Sy monds) 265 — do. on pelvis, belly, and chest (Gunther). . . .266 Surqery, report on special therapeutics, by Mr. Hulke : . . 416 Sutures and dressings . .. 269 Sutures, horsehair for . . 417 — rows of, for union of wounds (Simon) 269 — bloody, horsehair for (Simon) . 270 — metallic, needle for (Price) . 269 — staple, without ligature (Startin) 269 — twisted (Koser) . . .269 Sway>te, fibrous tumour of uterus, sponta- neous expulsion . . . 366 — double monstrosity . . 404 Sweating, sanguineous (Parrot) . 249 Sweet, gun-shot wound of lower jaw 296 Swinhoe, hot-air baths in diabetes 235 Sycosis (Chaussit, Hebra) . . 257 Syme, axillary aneurism . . 274 SrjioXDs (F.) treatment before surgical operations . . . 265 — dressing of stumps after amputation 271 — excision of knee-joint . . 292 — old stricture with abscess of urethra 314 Stmonds (J. A.) on Todd's views on acute diseases .... 133 Sympathetic nerve. See Nerves. Symphysiotomy (Foucault) . 358 Symptomatology . . . 133 Syncope, nervous (Heurteloup) . 46 Synovial membrane, scrofulous disease of (Barwell) . 287 Synthesis, study of disease by (Richardson) 15 Syphiliology, questions in (Waller) 324 Syphilis .... 321 Syphilis (Acton) . . . 321 — (Laurence) . . . 300 — (Waller) . . . 143 — (do.) ... 149 — plurality of (Rollet) . . 322 — deceptions in recognising (Lorinser) 324 — history, in middle ages (Hoeser) 321 — in British army (Dartnell) . 321 — hereditary (Notta) . . 404 — constitutional (Tiingel) . . 322 — do. (Vivchow) . 322 — congenital (Hecker, Vidal) . 322 — do. transmission by lactation, &c. (Barillier) . . . 404 Syphilis, communication from suckling tb nurse (Doyon) . . . . 138 — - do. ' (Doyon) 322 — secondary, contagiousness of (Dupont)322 — do. infectibility of (Gibert) . 143 — do. primary sore from (Johnson) 322 — do. inoculation of (Lee) . 322 — tertiary (Boeck) . .323 — pathology of (Hubbenct) . 321 — diseases (Parker) . . 321 — disease of hair in (Sigmund) . 247 — do. (do) 323 — of the brain (Albers) . . 160 — of dura mater (Roth) . 323 — of cranium (Russell) . . 162 — do. (do.) . . 323 — iodide of ammonium in (Camberini) 138 — Aix-la-Chapelle, sulphur thermae in(Wetz- lar) . . . . 139 — sarsaparilla in (Sigmund) . 1 !7 —tartar-emetic ointment in(Lindwurm) 147 — do. (do) 325 — vaccination, a remedy for (Kreyser) 151 Syphilitic tumours of the tongue (Lagneau) 223 — do. (do) 323 — contraction of larynx (Hansen) 205 — disease of larynx (Wilmot) . 205 — affection of liver (Testelin) 238 — stricture of rectum (Nelaton) 227 — aphonia (Diday) . . 207 — hemiplegia (Munk) . . 152 -' — myositis (Fischer) . . . 323 — paralysis (Hassing) . 151 — rheumatism (Duncalfe) ' . 144 — do. (do.) . . 323 — infants, iritis in (Hutchinson) . 403 — do. (North) 404 Syphilisation (Boeck) . . 324 — (Hebra) . . .138 — (do.) . . . 148 — (Faye, Hebra, Kalischer) . 325 — (Lindwurm) . . . 147 — (do.) ... 325 — (Sigmund) . . . . 325 Szechenyi (Count) suicide of (Mandy) 434 Szymanowski, immersion and irrigation 270 Tamia solium, conversion of cysticercus ecl- lulosaj into (Kuehemneister) . 224 231 — pumpkin seed in (Tarneau) . 413 Tahiti, medical knowledge of (Schwarz) 258 Tailors' workshops of Berlin, mortality of (Paasch) . . . 4g\ Talipes equino-varus (Jordan) . 332 Tamplin (R. W.) on deformities . 333 Tandon. See Moquin-Tandon. Tanner, signs and diseases of pregnancy 337 — d°- 379 — colloid tumour of ovary . 373INDEX. 508 Tanner, two fuiltil monsters . 104 Tunnin in albuminous anasarca (Alvarenga) 236 — in vesical catarrh (Pieplu) . 236 — in disease of uterus, &c. . 419 — in vaginitis . . . 4.2O — antidote to strychnia (Kurzak) 454 Tapeworm, sulphuric acid in (Darrach) 225 Tavi1, excision of knee-joint . 291 Tapping. See Paracentesis. Taedieu, hydrophobia in Franco . 138 — combustion of human body . 427 — ill-usage of children . . 427 — violent death by gun-shot . 428 — on strangulation . . 432 — effects of powder; discharge of cannon 429 — See Robin. Taeneau, protracted pregnancy . 337 — pumpkin seeds in tamia solium 413 Tabniee, extraction of fcetus . 337 Taesitani, artificial premature labour 353 Tarsus, caries of, amputation, &c. (Thompson) 272 — excision of bones of . . 292 Tarta r-emetic in croup (Ronzier-Joly)206 — in phthisis (Fonssagrives) . 216 — ointment in syphilis (Lindwurni) 147 do. (do.) 325 Taktitei, obstinate sciatica . 155 — spermatorrhoea, with impotence; hydro- therapy . . . .237 Taste . . . . 73 Taste, organs of (Bruus) . . 297 — seat of the sense of (Drielsma) . 73 — feeling in the mouth in reference to (Klaatsch) ... 73 Tatum, fracture of ribs, sternum, &c. 282 — flint-stone in larynx ; tracheotomy 3*00 — perineal emphysema . . 316 Tavignot, phosphorus in palsy of the mus- cles of the eye . . .155 — puncture of iris in inflammation 330 Tayloe (A. S.) transference of poisons from blood to alimentary canal . 68 — research for arsenic and antimony in organic matter . . . 441 — poisoning by white precipitate . 450 Tayloe (B. A.) use of ophthalmoscope 326 Taylor (H. T.) acupressure . 276" Taxis in strangulated hernia (Oosselin) 306 Taxus baccata, poisonous action of (Schroff) 457 Tea and alcohol, action on the animal economy (Smith) .... 55 Teale (T. P.) median lithotomy . 318 Teale (T. P.jun.) lachrymal obstructions 327 — cases of iridectomy . . 330 Teed (.1. L.) animal chemistry . 4 Teeth, formation of milk (Stcinbcrger) 389 121 335 Teeth, derangements of, in dentition (Jacobi) 398 — Delabarre's syrup in dentition . — action of madder on (Joly) . Ill Teeth, surgery of . Teeth, surgery of (Grimshaw, Parker) 335 — tumours of periosteum of (Magitot) 835 Teissiee, slow cerebral raniollissement treated by tonics . . 172 Temperature, animal (Hardy) . 134 — of the body (Parkes) . . 210 — of arterial and venous blood (Wurlitzer) 37 — constant, production of warmth in animals of (Lieberineister) . . 131 — high, influence on motor nerves (Rosen, thai) .... 47 — do., cause of death of animals in (Ber- nard) .... 131 — of flowers and leaves (Lowe) . Il l Tendons, reparative process in, after division 333 — relaxation of (Linhart) . Terms, medical, vocabulary (Fowler) 3 — medical and general, lexicon (May ne) 3 — glossary of scientific (Henry) . 3 Testelin, syphilitic affection of liver Testis, Sfc. .... Testis, pain of, ungt. cup. oxydi in (Hoppe) 237 — excision of, cases — atrophy of both ^Le Gendre) — benign fungus of (Dieulafoy) — cancer of (Lawrence) — descent of (Rouget) — hernia of (Coulson) — transplantation of (Mantegazza) 111 — tuberculosis of (Dupley) . 235 — tumour of, from a child (Holmes) 400 Tetanic cramps, intermitting (Trousseau) 165 Tetanic prodromata arrested (Lespian) 155 Tetanus .... Tetanus, lecture on (Skey) . 267 — cases of (Evans) . . 153 — do. (Walker) . — in London hospitals . . 267 — communicability of, from animals to men 334 238 311 312 236 311 96 311 311 267 268 (Betoli) . — pathologv of (Demme) . — do. (do.) . — do. (do.) . — acute idiopathic (Curling) — idiopathic, fatal (do.) — do. (Rogers) — traumatic (Fox, Hailey, Harper, — do. (Walker) — from interruption of (Pniiger) electric 175 154 167 17* 153 268 154 Hinton) 268 151 current 53INDEX. 569 Tetanus, from removal of scirrhus of breast fPergusson) . • • 268 — from wound of wrist (Fergusson) 2G8 — from injuries to right hand (Flower) 268 — from wound of back of hand (Cutler) 268 — from wound of hand (Johnson) 268 — after reduction of compound dislocation of ankle-joint (Stanley) . . 267 — from amputation for gangrene of leg (Soult) . . . .268 — from grazing of heel (Macmurdo) 268 — aconite in (Sedgewick) . 160 — aconite in traumatic (De Morgan) 267 — sulphate of atropine in (Pescheux) 151 — cannabis Indica in (Morton) . 152 — curara in (Brochin) . . 267 — do. (Vella, &c.) . . 175 — do. (Gintrac) . . 267 — do. and aconitum . 418 — Indian hemp in (Farrage) . 153 — do. (do.) . 267 — vapour bath in (Pidduck) . 156 Textob, impermeable urethra in an infant 400 Thadex, axillary dislocations . 283 Thames, theory of disease from (Barnes) 483 Thamhayx, recovery of asphyxiated persons 205 Tiieile, cretinism . . . 153 Therapeutics, report on, by Dr. Handfiehl Jones . . . 133 Therapeutics, physiological (Virchow) 134 Therapeutics, special, report by Dr. H. Jones, Mr. Hulke, and Dr. Graily Hewitt 412 Therapeutics, special (Hartmann, Niemeyer) 222 TniELMAN'K, sempstresses' cramp 152 Thigh, dislocation of (Buez) . 285 Tmx (G.) abscess of the larvnx . 206 — do. . 300 TniRY, chancre . . . 253 — do. 322 Thomas, injuries of liver . .429 Thomas (Simon) origin of obliquely distorted pelvis .... 313 — ovarian cysts . . . 371 Thomas (T. G.) cervix during pregnancy 339 — post-partum hemorrhage . 349 — instrument for craniotomy . 357 — suspended fajtal animation . 392 Thompson (C.) arteritis . . 198 Thompson (H.) pneumothorax and musical murmur in pleura . . 205 — caries of the tarsus, Syme's amputation, &c. . . . .272 — inguinal hernia, Wutzer's operation 304 — strangulated femoral atid inguinal hernia 308 Thompson (H.) early diagnosis for stone 318 — small calculus ; lithotrity . 319 — disease of bladder; calculus ; lithotrity 319 — application of fluids in mist to the larynx 205 Thompson. See Daecy. Thomson, facial neuralgia . 152 Thomson (R. D.) annual report on St. Mary- lebone Thoracentesis (Anderl) — in pleurisy (Aran) — in pleural effusions (Baisle) — in pleuropneumonia (Monteils) 484 220 220 207 207 Thorax, surgical diseases of (Bryant) 299 Thoebuen, idiopathic pneumothorax 213 — percussion and auscultation . 260 Thoee, polypus of female urethra . 377 Thoen, induction of premature labour 353 Throat, disease of (Gibb) . . 205 — See Sore throat. Thromboses, puerperal . . 385 Thrombosis, puerperal (Paulsen) . 385 — and atheroma (Buhl) . . 189 — of ductus arteriosus (Rauchfuss) 202 — do. (do.) 397 — of duct of Botal (Klob) . 202 — of ascending vena cava (Dienstl) 190 — of saphena vena, &c. (Baart) . 203 — of renal veins in children (Beckmann) 203 — in pelvic, iliac, and crural veins, &c. (San- tesson) . . . 409 — of cerebral sinuses (Dusch) . 203 Thrombus in mesentery (Hakes) . 307 — in venae porta?, in case of erysipelas (Malmsten) . . . 139 — of vulva and vagina (Laborie) . 386 Thrush, development of, from acid secretions (Bley) . . . .397 Thttdichum, epicrisis of researches on liver sugar .... 90 — colouring matter of the bile . 91 — intravasation, embolia and cytostasis, causes of paralysis . . 196 — chemistry of diseases of liver . 235 — mercury an hepatic specific . 235 — on oxalic acid . . . 438 437 Thumb, dislocation of (Rabaine, Ressel) 281 Tuunoel, reports of Hamburg Hospital 202 Thymic asthma (Friedleben) . 393 Thymus gland (His) . . 94 — anomalies (Clar) . . 301 — do. (do.) . . 393 — do. (Friedleben) . . 39.1 — enlargement in children (Brent) 393 Thyroid cartilage, wound of (Curling) 299 — injury (Hawkins) . . 299 — detachment of piece of (Johnson) 299 — necrosis of (Russell) . . 300 Thyroid gland, blood-vessels of (Hyrtl) 95570 liNJJEX. Thyroid gland) pathology of (Ihalenbag) 244 — cancer of (Lotzbeck) . . 279 — hypertrophy, in pregnancy (Quillot) 380 Tibia, fracture of (Smith) . 285 Tilt, complications of uterine ill■, a a 3G2 — influence of tropical climates on uterine inflnmmation . . . 362 Times (H. G.) quadruple births . 316 — fibrous tumour of uterus . 366 Timms, on consumption . " . 205 Tinea capitis, sulphuret of calcium in (Ma- lagot) . . . .249 Tissue, accidental formation of (Wallmann) 134 — vegetable (Payen) . . 115 — gland, new formation of (Wagner) 134 — animal, amyloid substances in (Rouget) 122 — organic, elasticity of (Volkmann) 130 — between articular cartilage and bone (Hulke) ... . . 19 — cartilaginous, chemical constitution of (Friedleben) ... 19 — connective (Martyn) *. . 117 — do., non-identity of, with cartilage and bone-corpuscles (Beneke) . 134 — do., of kidney (Beer) . . 245 — liver, new formation of (Rokitanskv) 134 Tobacco-smoking (Hastings) . 259 Todd's (Dr.) views on acute diseases (Syinonds) . . .133 Tolee (J.) opium in nervous symptoms from a burn .... 151 Tomsox, rupture of uterus . 351 Tongue, diseases of . . 297 Tongue, herpetic affection of (Bergouhnioux) 224 — syphilitic tumours of (Lagneau) 223 — do. (do.) 323 — excision of, for cancer . . 297 Tonics in asthenic dropsy (Sisson) . 187 Tonsil, diseases of . . . 297 Toppert, club-foot . . 334 Torpedo, electric function of (Matteucci) 49 — electro-motor power of electric organ of (Matteucci) ... 50 — action of woorara on (Moreau) . 66 Touch, sense of (Meissner) . 74 Toulmoucde, lesions of cranium, medico- legal view of . . 425 — penetrating wounds of the chest 429 — on judicial autopsies of natural deaths 466 Totjkdes, poisonous action of proto-sulphate of iron '. . . . 451 Towns, building act for (Smith) . 481 Toynhee (J.) diseases of the ear . 331 — acute caries of tympanic cavity 334 Trachea, irritative congestion of (Garrett) 205 — ulceration into (dimming) . 193 Tracheotomy . . . 299 Tracheotomy (Trousseau) . . 206 299 212 218 212 20LI 390 210 396 395 416 Tracheotomy (Trousseau) . — in croup (Barthez) — do. fUouchut) — do. (Krbenmeyer) . [ 396 — do. (Evans) — do. (do.) . — do. (do.) . fallo I . 396 — do. (Fenner) . . 208 — do. (do.) < .. — do. (Fock) . — do. (Henriette) — do. (isnard) . . 396 — do. (McSwiney) . . 206 — do. (do.) . . 396 — do. (Roser) . . 200 — do. (Sendler) — do. (Spence) — do. (do.) . . 299 — do. (do.) — do. (Vdss) . . . 208 — do. (do.) — do. (do.) — in laryngeal croup (Schmidt) . 206 — in epilepsy (Williams) . . 153 — do. (do.) . .300 — in oedema of glottis (Labadie) . 207 — in laryngeal disease (Wilinot) . 300 — in epithelial cancer of larynx (Alderson) 300 — for flint-stone in larynx (Tatuni) 300 — in laryngeal phthisis (Gairdner) 300 — in syphilitic laryngitis (Farre) . 300 — in syphilitic disease of larynx (Wilinot) 205 — in ulceration of larynx (Rees) 300 — for warty growths in larynx (Budd) 299 — for tumour on trachea (Bryant) 300 — necrosis of thyroid, &c. (Russell) 300 Trades, hygiene of unwholesome and dan- gerous (Vemois). . . 177 Transactions of Obstetrical Society, vol. i 336 Transfusion of blood in post-partum hemor- rhage (Martin) . Transmission, hereditary (Coste) Transplantation, innervation of (Friedberg) — of testicles (Mantegazza) Transport of sick and wounded (Gurlt) . ... Trapani, subcarbouate of iron in poisoning TiiASTOUli, iodide of potassium in ulcers o legs . . . .248 Tbaube, corrugation of border of left lung, Ac 207 — digitalis in pneumonia . — bacony degeneration of kidneys — herpes zoster on head . .219 — See Oerhardt. — and Munk, pulmonary abscess. 21 j — do. perforation of vermiform pro- cess, oca . • • --•3 nose 111 in 2G5 arsem 225 warl.NDKX. 571 Tkacbe and Mexk, nbscessof liver and lungs 235 Tkaveks (B.) observations in surgery 264 Theitz, imemie intestinal affections 229 Trephining, in fracture of cranium (Adams) 293 — in caries of the skull (Bryant) . 291 — in seal]) wound (Paget) . 293 Trichina spiralis (Turner) . . 109 — in man (Virchow) . . 186 Tricocephalus (Davaine) . . 260 Tkipe, on sausage-poisoning . 461 Tuist, electro-magnetism in rheumatism 258 Trochanter, disease of great (Erichsen) 290 Tholtscii, aural surgery . • 334 Teost, chrome tuberculosis of kidneys 235 — See Breitkaupt. Tkousseau, epilepsy . . 155 — chorea .... 155 — sciatica . . . . 155 — exophthalmic goitre . . 156 — intermitting tetanic cramps . 165 — tracheotomy and tubage of larynx 206 — sanguineous effusions into pleura 218 — epidemic dysentery . . 231 — ulcer of the stomach and haimatemesis 232 — gallstones . . . 235 — erysipelas . . • 256 — tracheotomy . . . 299 — paracentesis of chest . . 301 — do. of pericardium . 301 — cerebral fever in children . 391 — rachitis .... 402 Tbudeau, granulations of membrane of uterus 369 Thyde, sudden death in connection with furuncles of face . . 254 Tubercle, pathology of (Ellis) . 134 — miliary, in muscles of heart (Reckling- hausen) .... 188 Tuberculosis, first period of (Bourgade) 220 — of bronchial glands (Hennig) . 393 — pulmonary (Gueneau de Mussy) 205 — chronic, of kidneys (Trost) . 235 — of testicle (Dupley) . . 235 — acute miliary (Wunderlich) . 207 Tubes, luminous, artificial illumination of cavities of the body by (Fonssagrives) 116 Tuke (H.) general paralysis . 181 Tumours, arrangement of (Wilks) 8 — table of arrangement of . 10 — classification of (Billroth) . 276 — characteristics of innocent and malignant 9 Tumours .... 276 — non-malignant . . . 277 — malignant .. . . 279 Tumour of the brain (Wood) . 157 — do. indurated (Arlidge) 154 Tumour of scalp, congenital (Ward) 278 — intra-cranial (Gordon) . . 152 — do. in epilepsy (Brown-Sequard) 154 — of dura mater, perforating (Coote) 166 — of salivary glands (Billroth) . 278 — of dental periosteum (Magitot) . 335 — mammary. See Breast. — do. See below (Glandular). — abdominal, misplacement of kidneys in reference to (Durham) . . 247 — do. (Jones) . . 339 — ovarian. See Ovarian cgsts. — inguinal, containing lumbrici (Batalla) 224 — of labia pudendi (Priestley) . 375 — of testicle, from a young child (Holmes) 400 — cancerous, &c, of liver (Hare) . 239 — cystic, in ischio-rectal fossa (Cock) 277 — do. in neck (Balassa) . . 277 — encysted (Hartmann) . . 257 — fibrous, of superior maxilla (Quain) 295 — do. of lobule of the ear (Hilton) 278 Tumours, fibrous, of uterus . . 366 Tumour, fibro-cellular, of scalp (Flower) 278 — fibro-plastic, over spermatic cord (Hilton) 277 — glandular, with cancer and sarcoma (Wag- ner) . . . .133 — do., mammary (Adams, Fergusson) 278 — do. do. recurrence of (Birkett) 278 — do. do. . . 379 — do., in liver (Rokitansky) . 236 — of perspiratory gland, on cheek (Lotzbeck) 249 —- hydatid . . .258 — do. (Gulland) . . 234 — do. of liver; paracentesis . 235 — do. of liver (Budd) . . 240 — medullary (Beck) . . 133 —■ do. minute structure (Billroth) 134 — melanotic, from thigh (Birkett) 279 — mucoid fatty (Beck) . . 133 — sarcomatous, in labia, recurrent (Simon) 376 — sebaceo-follicular (Porta) . . 257 — syphilitic gummatous, of dura mater (Roth) • . . .152 — syphilitic, of the tongue (Lagneaul 223 Tumours of bones . . . 279 Tumours, benign, of bone—"mycToplaxes" (Nelaton) . . , £79 — hypertrophic, of skin (Oilier) . 248 Tun gee (C.) new formation of gray cerebral substance . . .134 — «o. . 157572 1NDKX. Tunciel (C.) caries of tho atlas mid axis, &c. 2S1 — constitutional syphilis . . 322 — choroiditis pyaemica . . 331 Turi'EHT, club-foot . . 333 Turck (L.) degeneration of spinal cord 173 nature of nervous fluid . . 174 — laryngeal speculum . . 217 — examination of larynx . . 217 Turner (C. W.) scarlatina and its sequela) 139 Turner (J.) death from haemorrhage alter fracture of rib . . .282 Turner (W.) kerato-cricoid muscle 24 — structure of nerve-fibre . 39 — transparent injections in examining struc- ture of pancreas . . 93 — on the trichina spiralis . . 109 — adhesion of soft palate to fauces 298 Turning in midwifery . . 353 Turning in all cases of labour (Figg) 354 — plan for facilitating (Leopold) . 354 — in abnormal labour (Hicks) . 354 — as substitute for forceps (Jones) 355 — in coarctation of pelvic brim (Barnes) 353 — cephalic, in malposition of foetus (Barker) 355 — podalic, in contracted pelvis (Martin) 344 Tweedie, Lumleian lectures on continued fever . . . .138 Twins, locked (Weir) . . 346 — See Births. Tympani, membrana (Bonnafont) . 73 Tympanic cavity, acute caries of (Toynbee) 334 Typhlitis (Munchmeyer) . . 230 Typhlo-enteritis (Harris) . . 225 Typhoid fever (Brinton) . . 138 — (Reid) . . . .139 — in India (Goodeve) . . 137 ■— intestine in (Kennedy) . . 230 — urea excreted in (Warncke) . 102 — treatment (Monneret) . 413 — emetics in (Brinton) . . 414 — See Typhus. Typhoid pneumonia (Kennedy) . 206 Typhus fever (Bell) . . 138 — (do.) . . 144 — abdominal, liver in (Wagner) . 244 — Bright's disease in connection with 246 — pyaemia with (Milroy) . . 194 — and typhoid fever, distinction of (Gaird- ner) .... 148 — and typhoid, in Dublin (Kennedy) 149 Tyrosin in the body, in disease (Neukomm) — urine containing (Schmeisser) . 107 Ueberyveg, theory of adjustment of sight 69 UnLE, urine in childhood . . 400 Ulcer, into trachea, fatal by hrcinorrhage (Gumming) . . . 193 Ulcer of cartilages of elbow-joint (Gadge) 289 — of the stomach (Trousseau) . 232 — intestinal (Rennie) . . 223 — of appendix vermiformis (Leudet) 227 — of uterus (Murncy) . . 366 — of rectum (House) . . 310 — of legs, iodide of potassium in (Trastour) 248 — aden or yemen (Coles) . . 250 — corrosive, in stomach, &c. (Muller) 225 Ulcer, rodent . . . 279 Ulcer, rodent (Hutchinson) . 253 — do. (do.) . . 279 — do. caustics for . . 417 — serpiginous, of skin (Keller) . 148 — do. (do.) . 323 — strumous, of larynx (Rees) . 300 Ulcus noma (Zadelhoff) . . 247 Ulna, displacement of, over triangular car- tilage (Goyraud) . . 285 Ullrich, haemorrhage from retained portion of placenta, &c. . . . 348 — compression of rectum by dislocated uterus .... 364 — fibrous polypus of uterus, &c. . 369 — ovarian cyst in bladder . 372 Ulrich (C.) spinal curvatures . 333 Ulrich (F.) remarkable cases of hernia 307 Umbilical vesicle, minute structure of (Robin) 111 Umbilical cord. See Funis. Upas, supposed new species of (Hammond) 67 Uraemia (Jacksch) . . 244 — (Richardson) . . . 246 Uraemic intestinal affections (Treitz) 229 Uranium, acetate of, analysis of phosphoric acid by (Pincus) . . 96 Uhe, excision of head of femur . 290 — lithotomy; inflammation of neck of bladder . . . .317 — lithyolysis and lithotrity . 319 Urea, excreted in health . . 102 — do. after operation (Muller) . 104 — in urine of diabetes mellitus (Ringer) 103 — excreted in typhoid fever (Warncke) 102 — excretion of, upon the skin (Hirschsprung) 234 Ureters, obliteration of, from cancer of uterus (Gauchet) . . 236 Urethra, abscesses near (Venot) . 315 — impermeable, in an infant (Textor) 400 — obliterated (Fergusson) . 314 — rupture of (Jamain, Paget) . 314 Urethra, stricture, $c. . . 312 Urethra, stricture of (Bryant) . 313 — do. (Wade) . 312 — do. (Craven, Hamilton, Lunn) . 314 — do., with abscess (Symonds) . 314 — do., bleedings from old (Steiger) 315 — do., dilator for (Wood) . . 313 — do., urethrotome for (Marshall) 313INDEX. 573 Urethra, stricture of ; external incision 315 — do., boutonniere operation in (Lee) 314 — do., Stafford's perforator (Hamilton) 314 Urethral fever (Heurteloup) . 46 Urethralgia (Costes) . . 315 Urethrotome for obstinate stricture (Mar- shall) .... 313 Urethrotome dilator (Wood) . 313 [Jrethrotomy, perineal (Craven, Limn) 314 Uric acid, crystals of, in pemphigus vesicles (Malmsten) . . . 10-4 Urinary deposits, lectures on (Beale) 99 Urinary excretion (Parkes) . 210 Urinary passages, epithelium of (Bruckhardt) 96 Urinary si/stem ... 96 Urine, lectures on (Beale) . . 99 — natural constants of healthy (Haughton) 96 — do. (do.) 98 — analysis of (Neubauer) . . 96 — composition of, in health and disease (Parkes) ... 96 — proportion of solids in (Seller) . 96 — gases of (Planer) . . 102 — in childhood (Uhle) . . 400 — secretion of (Wittich) . . 247 — do. influence of dilution of blood on (Herrmann) . . . 246, 261 — daily changes of (Roberts) . 101 — empirical formula for calculating excre- tion of, in a sick person . . 97 — incontinence of, rhus radicans in (Des- cfttes) . . . .236 — do. rhus radicans for, &c. 421 — retention of (Bryant) . . 313 — do. (Lunn) . . 314 — do. (Symonds) . 314 — do., in foetus (Depaul, Duparque) 346-7 — suppression of, for eight days (Burton) 237 — of chorea (Beale) . . 108 — in diabetes (Bade) . . 245 — do. sugar and urea in (Ringer) 103 — do. sugar in (Roberts) . 106 — do. sugar in (Leconte) . 96 — do. detection of sugar in, by sul- phuric acid (M'Ghie) . . 96 — in epilepsy (Hensen) . . 109 — extravasation within the pelvis (Stanley) 313 — infiltration from rupture of urethra (Jamain) . . . 314 — acidity of (Lehmann) . . 101 — chylous (Barry) . . 106 — do. (Isaacs) . . 105 — do. (Lopez) . . 237 — crystals of phosphate of lime in (Hassall) 104 — saccharine, fungus in (Darrach) 237 — coloration of, by santon inc (Martini) 71 — garcina in (Welcker) . . 110 Urine containing tyrosin (Schmeisser) 107 — indigo, chemistry and semeiotics of (Kletzinsky) . . .96 Urine pigment (Munk) " . . 108 Urology, morbid (Brattler) . 234 Urticaria, from setaceous larva; (Barker) 250 — from irritation of female sexual organs (Scanzoni) . . 367 Uterus, abnormal conditions of . 345 Uterus, malformation of (Kussmaul) 361 — absence of (Kussmaul) . . 361 — do. congenital (Knight). 109 — imperforate (Hooper) . . 364 — atresia of (Abt) . . 365 — hicornis, atresia of (Rokitansky) 364 — double (Struthers) . . 404 — do. (Kussmaul) . . 361 — dislocations of (Virchow) . 362 — inertia of, digitalis in (Delpech) 419 — inversion of (Bockendabl, Brandt, &c.) 364 — do. (Lee) . . 363 — prolapsus of (Demarquay, Roy, &c.) 364 — do. removal of vaginal portion (Braun, Scanzoni) . . 365 — retroflexion of unimpregnated (Moir) 363 — retroversion of gravid (Gosselin, Mall, Rogers, Skinner) . . 363 — do. (Smith) . . .362 — do. (Muenchmeyer) . . 363 — electrization of reflexed (Pano) . 363 Uterus, rupture of . . 350 Uterus, rupture of (Ormerod, Paulli) 350 — do. (Aldridge, Tomson) 351 Uterus, diseases of . . 362 Uterus, diseases of (Becquerel) . 362 — do. (Nonat) . 361 — do. confounded with lumbo- sacral neuralgia (Marrotte) . 153 — do. St. Amand Mineral Waters (Charpentier) . . . 368 — do., chronic, waters of Medersdorf in 419 — do., tannin cylinders in (Becquerel) 419 — cancer of (Riquard, Sawyer) . 366 — do. alveolar (Bristowe) . 366 — do. obliteration of ureters from (Gauchet) . . . 236 — reproduced dropsy of j iodine injection (Parant) . . .367 — fungosities of (Goldschmidt) . 369 — See Polypi (uterine) — fibrous tumours of (Davis) . 366 — ulceration of (Murney) . 366 — granulations of membrane of (Trudeau) 369 — sympathetic effect of galvanic current on (Lobb) . . . .152 — scraping of, in monorrhagia (Routh) 367 — pathological alterations of appendages (Siredey) . . . 370 Uterus, peri-uterine diseases . 369 — See Hematocele.INDEX, 574 Uterus. Sec Cervix and Ox uteri. Ova art! in tedious labour (Gnuchct) 300 Uyttehiioevkn, ovarian oyati permanent fistula . .. . . 875 Vaccination, public (Husband) . 2 — in St. Pancras (Hillier) . 495 — in Prussian army . . 259 — protective power (Berg) . 490 — instrument for (Spratly) . 200 — case of, incubation one year (Hodges) 403 — in pertussis . . . 258 201 — a remedy for syphilis (Kreyser) 151 Vaccination, re- (Brown, Vleminckx) 138 — statistics of (Gunster) . . 139 Vaccinia, origin of (Fontan) . 140 — and variola (Cutler) . . 137 147 Vaccine lymph, preservation of (Husband) 2 — do. (C'eely, Husband) 490 — comparative efficacy (Latour) . 490 — true variola from (Martin) . 140 Vaccine virus, variola in the cow from (Cutler) . . . .137 147 Vagi nerves. See Nerves (pneumogastric). Vagina, deficiency of, &c. (Santesson) 109 Vagina, diseases, Sfc, of . 375 Vagina, bursting of varices of, during labour 352 — foreign bodv in, producing fistula (Part- ridge) ..... 370 — removal of jelly-mould from (Partridge) 209 — laceration of (Rechnitz) . 375 — occlusion of (Knight) . . 409 — do. (Morgan) . . 375 — thrombus of (Laborie) . . 380 — inspection of (Ploss) . , 380 — " irrigateur-obturateur " of (Venot) 380 Vaginitis; tannin ointment , 420 Vaxentinee, inosite in muscles of drunkards 20 Vallian law, the, in irritability of nerves (Rosenthal) ... 52 Valves, pulmonary, malformation of (Begbie) 188 — semilunar, mechanism of (Micrswa) 29 — See Heart; Mitral valve. Van Pp.lt, diameter of foetal head at term 339 — transverse positions of vertex presenta- tion . . . .340 Vanzetti, treatment of inflammation by digital compression . . 189 Varicocele (Jobert) . . 312 — death from rupture of (Erichsen) 312 — treatment (do.) 312 — subcutaneous incision in (Lee) . 312 '— subcutaneous division of spermatic veins 418 — Vidal's operation (Krichsen) . 312 Variola,epidemic. inOxford(Hussey)138 — in Scotland (Wood) . '.137 Variola in Prussia (Marc d'Espine) 138 — at Providence (Snow) . . 138 — intra-uterinc (Bruce, Simpson). 407 — chlorine lotions in (Eiseninunn) 252 — prevention of pitting in (Stokes) 251 — nainiorrhagia (Fromnunn) . 138 — in the cow from vaccine virus (Cutler) 137 — do. (do.) 147 — true, from vaccine matter (Martin) 14<3 Variolous orchitis and ovaritis (Beraud) 240 Vaknell (G.) unusual disease (mollitics, &c.) of the osseous tissue in the horse 20 Vascular system ... 27 — diseases of . . 180 — See Blood-vessels. Vectis (Beydler, Boddaert) . 359 Vegetable tissue (Payen) . . 115 Vegetables, production of gum in (Fremy) 115 Vegetation, nitrogen of (Cameron, Lawes) . 114 Veiel, chloride of zinc in skin diseases 252 — See Isnard. Veins, wounds, Sfc., of . , 275 Veins, surgical pathology of (Langenbeck) 275 — air in, after parturition (Dalton) 319 — degeneration of, in cancer (Westhoff) 134 — portal and sub-hepatic, sugar in blood of (Schmidt) ... 90 — renal, thrombosis of, in children (Beck- mann) .... 203 — femoral, phlebitis of (Stewart) . 273 — of lower extremities, obstruction of, in phthisical patients (Cursham) . 190 — varicose (Erichsen) . . 312 — do. acupuncture of (Malago) 190 Vella (L.) antagonism between strychnine and woorara . . . G7 — neutralizing of tetanus from strychnine by woorara ... 67 — on curare in tetanus . . 175 Vei/peat, disinfecting mixture of Come and Demeaux for wounds . . 259 — mode of disinfection (coal-tar) . 270 — disinfecting powder . . 4 SO — spontaneous cure of uterine polypi 368 Vena cava, thrombosis of ascending (Dienstl) 190 — obliteration of superior (Pees) . 190 Venereal diseases, plurality of (Hollet) 322 — See Syphilis. Venot, abscesses near urethra . 315 — Devanseaux's " irrigateur ohturatenr va- ginal" .... 386 Ventilation and heating (Forbes) . 483 — by heat of lighting apparatus (Morinj Walters) . • .483 — of dwellings (Pettenkofer) . 4S0 — and warming of nurseries—Meissner'J system (Hallcr) . . . 483INDEX. 575 W ir.lh'.i.m of hospitals (Bohm) . 482 — and wanning apparatus at H6pital Necker (Yernois) . . . -182 Verardini. See Wxzoli. Veratria in pneumonia (Vogt) . 213 Yerai rum album (Sehroff); . 456 Yerxat, segment of spinal cord an indepen- dent centre of innervation . 155 Yekxeuil, calculus of nasal fossa) . 206 — vegetations of larynx . . 207 — dcligation of popliteal artery . 276 — uterine prolapsus . . 364 Yernois, industrial and administrative hy- giene of trades . . . 477 — warming and ventilating apparatus at the H6pital Necker . . .482 Vers.uann and Rodgers, arsenic in Dale'T magnetic muriate of iron . 486 Vertebra', erosion of (Johnson) . 187 — cervical, sensitive state of, in chorea (Jansen) .... 152 — do., dislocation of (Bondesen) . 281 — do., fracture of (Bi-eithanpt) . 281 — lumbar, dislocation of (Keig) . 281 Vertigo (Lussana) . . . 174 Vesicle, umbilical, minute structure of (Robin) . . . .111 Vesical catarrh, tannin in (Pieplu) 236 Yezin, incineration of body of a child 469 Vicaire, medical properties of esculino 139 Vicious habits in young children (Bambeke) 236 Vidal, congenital syphilis . . 322 Vidal's operation for varicocele (Erichsen) 312 Vienna Imperial Hospital, report for 1858 148 Vierordt (K.) human physiology 1 — dependence "of periods of circulation on rates of pulse . . 30 Vigla, coal-tar as a disipfcetanfc . 487 Vincent-, essential sciatica . 155 Vinke, penghawar djambi (now hoemostatic) 188 Vintschgau (De) period of transformation of starch into dextrin and sugar by the saliva .... 86 Violation of child eight months old (Has- chek) .... 470 Violence, death from (Zeising) . 434 — to pregnant woman (Haschek) 430 Virchow, cellular pathologv, &c. . 134 — do. . 137 — state of vessels of brain in epilepsy i56 — melanotic sarcomata of pia mater 1G8 — local atrophy - . . . 177 — constitutional syphilitic affections 322 — pregnancy in rudimentary cornu 343 — dislocations of uterus . . 362 — his theory of inflammation (Bond) 188 — and Zenker,.trichina spiralis in man 186 Vision, history of theory of (Wundt) 69 — Hippocrates on (Sichel) . 326 — adjustment of (Ueberweg) . 69 — binocular (Prevost) . . 69 — impaired (\Yordsworth) . 331 — coloration of, by santonine (Martini) 71 Visual axes, influence of excitement of . retina on (Gracfe) . . « 72 Vital capacity of the lungs (Greliaut) 77 — do. (Balfour) 77 Vital contractility of lungs (Knaut) 81 Vital resistance in action of heat, &c., on the organism (Bertulus) . . 131 Veeaiinckx and Marinus, on revaccination 138 Vocke, salpingitis puerperalis . 370 Vogel (A.) phvsical examination of lungs of children . . .206 — do. 393 Vogler, death by delirium traumaticum 434 — and Saees-Girons, inhalation as means of cure .... 261 Vogt, veratria in pneumonia . 213 — injury, medico-legal view . 430 Voigt, emptying of latrines in large towns 487 Voisin, hysterical cutaneous anaesthesia 176 — retro-uterine hannatocele, &c, . 369 Voit (C.) temperature of the ear after division of the sympathetic . 38 Volkitann (A. W.) elasticity of organic. tissues .... 130 Voltolini, centre of ossification of epiphysis of femur . . . 468 Volumetric method, in analysis of albumen (Bbdeker) . . . 120 Volvulus (Soulier) . . . 224 Vomica,cured by iodine inhalations (Guitard) 222 Vomiting, diastase in (Castelnau) . 22-1 Vomiting in pregnancy . . 380 Vomiting of pregnancy, pepsine in (Cor- visart) .... 420 — obstinate, in pregnancy (Caradec, Petre- quin, &c.) . .380 Voss, tracheotomy in croup . 208 — history of tracheotomy in croup 395 — gangrene of intestine . 229 — passage of piece of gangrenous intestine 303 Vulpian, influence of spinal cord on Ivm- phatic heart of the batraehia . 38 — anatomy of medulla oblongata and pons Varolii in man . . .38 — See Philipeaux. Vulva, thrombus of (Laborie) . 386 WAcnsjiUTH, psychiatrik, in its legal rela- tions ;'1 . . , 179 — impulse to incendiarism . 476 Wadding, fracture from discharge of (Tar- dicu) . . , ■ 429 W wn: (R.) stricturo of urethra . 312INDEX. r>7<i Wade (W. F.) pathology of lead colic 171 Wagner (A.) forcible bending in united fractures, with deformity . 280 — hernia of foramen ovale . 309 Wagner (E.) true or primary softening of the heart . . 31 — do. . 187 — normal structure of the liver . 87 — combination of cnncer, sarcoma, mid glandular tumour . . 133 — formation of lymphatic elements in pleura} and lungs in puerperal fever . 133 — amyloid degeneration . . 133 — new formation of gland-tissue . 134 — myocarditis and endocarditis of right auricle, &c. . . . 189 — monorrhagia, fatty metamorphosis of heart's tissue • . . . 189 — bones in the lungs . . 206 — do. 216 — liver in abdominal typhus . 244 — alopecia of the head . . 248 — do. 258 — perforation of Fallopian tube, &c. 356 — poisoning by cyanide of potassium 460 Wakley, fracture through base of skull; serous fluid from ear . . 293 Walchneb, arrow poison of the Indians .... 457 Walker (J. H.) traumatic tetanus 151 — do. 268 Walker (J. S.) radical cure of hernia 305 Wallace (E.) imperforate rectum 410 Wallace (G.) high mortality in Greenock 480 Waller, cpiestions on syphilis . 143 — do. 149 — do. 324 Wallmajtn, accidental formation of tissues 134 — aneurism of the hepatic artery . 187 — granular disease of liver . 242 Walter (A. G.) traumatic empyema, with fistula . .... 301 Walters, heat of lighting apparatus for ventilation . . . 483 Walton (H.) an ophthalmoscope . 326 — blows on the eyeball . . 326 — vesico-vaginsil fistula . . 377 Wannebeoucq, hooping-cough . 395 Ward (N.) amputation at hip-joint in young child . . . • 272 — congenital tumour of scalp . 278 — Amussat's operation in disease of rectum 311 — Allarton's lithotomy operation 318 — epithelial cancer of labium . 375 Ward (S. H.) rational medicine . 2 — cases in the " Dreadnought " . 138 — scurvy .... 188 Ward (T. O.) subcutaneous opiate injections 153 Wardelx, enteric fever . 150 Waudull, placenta previa . 348 Warming. See Ventilation, &c. Warmth, production of, in animals, of a con- stant temperature (Liebermeister) 131 Warncke (T. S.), urea excreted in typhoid fever . . . . 102 Warrington, obstetric catechism. 337 Water absorbed by plants (Duchartre) 11 1 — surface, infection from (Lainont) 487 Water-supply to towns (llawlinson) 481 Water-pipes, metallic (Pappenheiin)481 Water-cure, the (Schildbach) . 138 Waters (A. T. H.) nervous system 37 — anatomy of the human lung . 75 — acute disease of chest . . 206 — emphysema of* the lungs . 221 Watson (E.) operation for vesico-vaginal fistula .... 376 — vesico-vaginal fistula . . 377 Watson (H.) cancer of bladder . 316 — See Bell. Watson (Jas.) cases of empyema . 206 — improvement of low parts of Glasgow 481 Watson (John) salam convulsions I,eclamp- sia nutans) . . . 153 Watson (P. H.) cancer of female bladder 377 Weaving, velvet and silk, injurv to health (Bliimlein) . . . 4S8 Weber (C. O.) development of pus 118 Weber (Edw.) physiology of the vagi 38 Weber (G.) hematoma of the dura mater 161 Weber (H.) cerebral affection from disease near nose and eye . . 152 — do. 156 Weber (O.) experiments with chloroform 63 — surgical experiences, &c, at Bonn Clinic 266 — surgical experiences: tumours . 276 — surgical experiences: fractures. 280 — fractures of skull . . 294 Weber (W.) changes of cartilage in dis- eases of joints . . . 287 Webster, leper hospital at Granada 250 Wedl, formation of pus . . 136 — pathology of blood-vessels . 189 — do. 200 Wegscheider, placenta prasvia . 347 Wehle, medico-legal descrimination of in- juries .... 429 _ do. 430 Weir, locked twins . . 346 xWeismann (A.) formation of nerve in neu- roma . . • .133 _ do. 173 Welckeh, sarcina in urine . 110 Wells (Spencer), Turkish or Uoman baths 218 — cases of ovariotomy . • 373 3/3 — iodine injections in ovarian cysts success- ful ... 376577 INDEX. Wells, recto-vaginal fistula . 377 — spurious hermaphroditism . 405 — large congenital encephaloid tumour, not impeding delivery . . 406 Wexke, adulteration of beer . 492 Wexz (R.) amputation of penis for cancer 311 W'crlhof's blood-spot disease (Doringer) 187 Wertiieimeb, dietetics of the newly born 300 WB80!, report of Omagh Hospital for Insane 177 West (C.) mental peculiarities and disorders of childhood . . .390 West (R. U.) substitution of parts in labour and internal contractions . 340 — sudden apoplectiform seizure, sixth day of lying-in . . . 385 Westhoff, degeneration of veins and nerves in cancer . . . 134 West Indies, fevers of (Croskery) . 140 Wktzlau, Aix-la-Chapelle ^sulphur theruue in syphilis . . . 139 White, potash in cutaneous diseases 251 White precipitate, effects of, on animals (Pavy) . . . .55 — physiological action (Pavy ) . 450 i— poisoning by (Shout) . 449 do. (Taylor) . 450 Whittixgham, tropical dysentery 233 Whitwbll (F.) extra-uterine foetation 342 Wiblix, emotional paralysis . 153 Wicke, snuff containing lead . 452 Wife's domain, the, by Philothalos 389 Wildbergee, report of Bamberg Ortho- paedic Institution . . 390 Wilde, iridectomy and glaucoma . 329 do. . 330 Wilks (S.) arrangement of tumours and new growths .... 8 — treatment of pneumonia . 206 — diseases of children . . 388 — communication of pulmonary artery and aorta .... 405 Willebhaxd, action of secale cornutum 204 Willers-J essen, medico-legal psychology 472 Williams v. Evans, disputed will . 475 Williams (C.) cases of calculi in Norwich Hospital, 1858-9 . . 317 Williams (\V.) tracheotomy in epilepsy 153 — do. . 300 Williok, ovarian pregnancy . 3 10 Wills, disputed ; want of capacity . 475 WiLLSiiiBE, chronic alcoholism . 153 — case of diabetes . . 235 — bleeding in acute lepra . . 248 W'ii.mot (S.) syphilitic laryngeal disease 205 'In. . 300 Wilson (E.) heated air, in treatment of dis- ease .... 248 Wilson (H.) case of polycoria . 328 — pyramidal cataract and conical cornea 331 Wine, on testing (Guyot) . . 492 Wixslow (F.) obscure diseases of brain and mind . . . .177 Winthee, diseases of the eye . 326 Wisteaxd, bodily injury in an intoxicated person .... 476 Wittich, albuminuria and secretion of urine 247 — See Budge. Wollaston, Turkish bath . 248 Women, diseases of, report on, by Dr. Graily Hewitt . . . .361 Women, diseases of (Bedford) . 362 do. (Bernutz) . 362 Women, diseases of, report on special thera- peutics, by Dr. Graily Hewitt . 418 Wood (A.) smallpox in Scotland . 137 — tumour of the brain . . 157 Wood (J.) radical cure of hernia . 305 — stricture of urethra j urethrotome dilator 313 — lithotomy j staff for dilating urethra 318 Wood (W.) progressive paralysis of the insane . . . .184 Woodson, inversion of uterus . 364 Woodwabd (J. J.) pathological histology 133 — anatomical diagnosis of cancer . 133 — secondary cancer of the axilla . 133 Woorara, effects of (Bernard) . 66 — action of extracts of (Martin-Magron) 67 — action on motor nerves (Bezold) 67 — do. on nerves and muscles (Wundt) 67 — in tetanus (Brochin) . . 267 do. (Vella, &c.) . . 175 — in traumatic do. (Gintrac) . 267 — neutralizing of tetanus from strychnine by (Vella) ... 67 — antagonism to strychnine (Vella) 67 -— its action on torpedo (Moreau) . 66 Woedswoeth, impaired vision, apoplexy of retina, &c. . . . 331 Wobmxey, chemical reactions of strychnia, atropine, &c. . . . 4*53 Worms, intestinal (Blair) . .224 do. (do.) . . 399 Worms, extirpation of ovarian cysts 372 Wounds .... 266 Wounds and injuries . , 424 Wound of wrist; tetanus (Fergusson) 268 — of back of hand ; tetanus (Cutler) 268 of hand ; tetanus (Johnson) . 268 — penetrating, of chest (Toulmouchc) 429 • of chest mid belly, with herniH of omentum (Derobe) . . . :i01 37578 iM)i:.\. Wounds, fa., offatus . . 410 Wounds, sloughing, OOal-tar and plaster of l'aris .... 416. — cicatrization, by carbonic acid (Demur- quay) .... 266 — submersion of, under water . 416 — disinfection and dressing of (Demeaux) 259 — disinfecting mixture for (Vclpeau) 259 — gunshot (Loftier) . . 265 — do. (Niemann) . . 435 — do. (Tardieu) . . 427 — do. of lower jaw (Sweet) . 296 — do. medico-legal view (Kriekhofor, Kiinig) . . . .4-30 W ka i isi .vw (W. P.) ovariotomy . 874 WbEDKK, volumetric quantitative analysis of hippuric acid . . .96 Writing, disorder of faculty of (Leviseur) 171 Wundekbah, Biblico-Talmudical medicine 424 Wuxderlich, acute miliary tuberculosis 207 —■ acute pernicious jaundice . 243 AVundt (W.) idio-muscular contraction 24 — secondary modification of nerves 38 — history of theory of vision . 69 — his experiments with conia and salt (Kolliker) . . .55 — and Schelske, influence of woorara on nerves and muscles . . 67 — See Schelske. Wuelitzeb (A.) temperature of arterial and venous blood ... 37 Wust, on noma . . .221 Wutzer's radical cure of hernia . 304-5 Wv-MEE (A.) curiosities of civilisation 2 Wythe*, ovarian tumours . 372 Xanthin (Staedeler) . . jo — in the body (Schcrer) . . 10 Ybates (II. P.) epilepsy cured by reuiovul of depressed bone from skull . 151 Yellow fever (Uowring) . . 137 — ad Lisbon, 1857, report on (Lyons) 495 Young (J.) abdominal abscess . 223 Zadeliioff, ulcus noma . . 247 Zeidleb, poisoning by phosphorus 410 Zeissl and Demahqttay, use of glycerine 248 Zeis, permanent local baths . 270 Zeising, fatal personal violence . 434 Zengerle (J. N.) influence of nervous sys- tem on digestion, animal heat, &c. 38 Zenker. See Virchow. Ziemssen, fibrous tumour of uterus; spon- taneous elimination . . 3G6 Zimsieemann, fever and inflammation 134 Zinc, chloride of, in skin diseases (Veiel) 252 — sulphate of, in hooping-cough (Fuller) 214 — do. (do.) 395 Ziueek, green in articles of dress 448 Zoology, medical (Moquin-Tandon) 1 Zuradelli (C.) palsy of the spinal muscles 176 — palsies of radial nerve, from rheumatism 176 Zygomatic arch, fracture of (Pellarin) 281 J. k. ADi.ARU, l'HIKTKIl, BARTHOLOMEW CL08K.f ■i