OF THE r.ONl'.S. 850 The medullary membrane is a very vascular cellular membrane, which contains the marrow, and serves as an internal periosteum to the bones (169-17«) The blood-vessels of the bones, which are pretty numerous, and of different volume, are distinguished into those which first ramify in the outer periosteum, and then penetrate into the small nutriti- ous foramina of the compact substance; those which penetrate, without ramifying, into the medullary canal, where they are dis- tributed to the membrane of that name, and then penetrate through the inner surface into the compact substance, where they communicate with the preceding; and, lastly, into those which pe- netrate through the large and numerous foramina of the short bones and spongy parts of the long and broad bones, to be distri- buted in the spongy substance, and communicate there, in the long bones, with the vessels of the two first orders. Some anato- mists have given the names of nutritious vessels of the first order to those of the medullary canal of the long bones ; nutritious ves- sels of the second order, to those of the spongy part; and of the third order, to those which pass from the outer periosteum into the compact substance. In general, each of the nutritious canals contains an artery and a vein. • Those of the second order contain very large veins, with very thin walls, which appear to consist on- ly of the inner membrane. These veins appear to have great communication with the medullary cavities of the spongy sub- stance. Lymphatic vessels are seen at the surface of the large bones only. No other nerves are seen in the bones than those which accom- pany the vessels of the medullary membrane. 586. The great hardness of the bones depends upon their chemical composition. Of all the organized parts, in fact, as has been seen, they contain the greatest proportion of earthy substance. It must have been known all along that the bones are combustible, and that they leave an earthy residuum. It has also long been known that the bones furnish gelatine or glue by decoction. It was Scheele who announced that the earthy part of the bones is phos- phate of lime. A hundred parts of fresh bone are reduced to about sixty by calcination. According to the analysis of M. Berzelius, human bones, de- prived of water and fat, have the following composition : animal matter reducible to gelatine by decoction, 32.17 ; insoluble animal substance, 1.13; phosphate of lime, 51.4; carbonate of lime, 11.30 ; fluate of lime, 2.0 ; phosphate of magnesia, 1.16 ; soda and muriate of soda, 1.20. Fourcroy and M. Vauquelin, in their first trials, did not find phosphate of magnesia in human bones. According to M. Hilde- brandt, there is none of that substance in them. According to Dr. Hatchett, there is sulphate of lime in them, which, according to M. Berzelius, is a product of calcination. Lastly, Fourcroy