OF ANIMALS. 21 it envelopes with a nervous collar terminating beneath in another larger ganglion. These ganglia send off filaments to the parts of the head and to the different viscera. In certain other animals, there are, moreover, some other small ganglia. The eephalopo- dous mollusca alone have their brain enveloped by a kind of carti- laginous skull. The general characters of the nervous system of the inverte- brate animals consists especially in the dissemination of nervous centres, and in the circumstance that all the parts, whether exter- nal or internal, whether those which belong to the vegetative func- tions or those which belong to the animal functions, receive their nervous filaments from the same centres. It will be seen that in the vertebrate animals, on the contrary, the nervous system is dis- posed in quite a different manner, and in one that entirely separates it from that of the other animals. 29. The nervous action or innervation presents in animals varia- tions corresponding to those which are observed in the disposition ef the nervous organs. In the animals in which there is no nerv- ous system, and in those in which that system is destitute of a centre (the radiated animals) the impressions are immediately followed by motion. Those animals and parts whose motions are determined by impressions are called irritable. In the radiated animals, it is the mouth, or the orifice by which they take their food, that is the most irritable point. It is there also that the nervous system begins to appear in the radiated animals which have one. All the other animals are also provided with irritable parts. In the mollusca and insects, in which the different ganglia e-f the nervous system are connected by cords, so as to form a cen- tre, and in which there are particular organs of sensation, the im- pressions received by the senses give rise to sensations, and the motions are determined by volition. The internal motions, how- ever, are produced by irritation, but the irritability in these ani- mals is in dependence upon the nervous system. There is also observed in these animals, and especially in insects, a faculty which is called instinct, and which, like an irresistible impulse, makes them produce, without instruction or imitation, very com- plicated actions which are essential to their preservation, and to that of their species. The vertebrate animals, besides irritability, sensibility, voluntary motion and instinct, have also cerebral func- tions, which, to a certain degree, assume the appearance of intel- lect. 30. The varieties or degrees of complication, which exist in each functionary apparatus, are combined in various ways, which constitutes varieties of the general organization. The combination or coexistence of the different apparatus of organs is determinate, a certain state of the organs of nutrition or generation requiring, before life can take place, a certain corresponding state of the organs of motion, sensation, &c. In conformity to a very pro- minent difference in the organization, animals arc divided into ver-