OF THE COiMMON ADIPOSE TISSUE. S9 I more remote origin ? Sir Everard Home fixes its origin in the in- testine. * He thinks it is, like the chyle, a product of digestion, . and supposes it to be absorbed by the large gut. This opinion nrests, among other facts, upon the existence of fat or of the yelk fin the intestine of the oviparous vertebrate animals in the foetal or Uarval state, and upon some morbid phenomena which are not very t conclusive. 166. The fat is continually taken up again by the absorbent vessels. The action of these vessels is demonstrated by its dimi- nution of quantity in various circumstances. This action is in equi- librium with that of secretion, when the quantity of fat remains the same. The exhalation and absorption of the fat are sometimes very rapid, as various facts show. Children which have become emaciated after diseases, often resume their original state in a few J days; and animals that are famished, as hogs, afterwards fatten wery rapidly. Certain birds are said to get fat in wet weather, in 1 less than twenty-four hours ; and emaciation takes place with equal rrapidity in many cases. The circumstances most favourable to the ssecretion of the fat, are the absolute rest of the animal and intel- lectual organs, and castration. These different causes are often i united, when it is in view to fatten animals. They produce the ? same effect when they exist in man. Habitual bleedings, and i mild and amylaceous food, are also considered as favouring the I production of fat. There are, moreover, unknown circumstances i which appear to act in the same manner, for cases of extraordinary I fatness are observed, for which it is difficult to account. The i causes which accelerate the resorption of the fat, are in general the t opposite of those of which we have made mention above, and fur- i ther, profuse secretions, organic diseases, and in particular dis- i eases of the organs of the nutritive functions. 167- Many hypothetical uses have been attributed to the fat. ' Those which it really possesses are local and general. In fact, the I fat, on the one hand, has uses which are purely mechanical, or re- sult from its position, as that of moderating pressure, in the sole of the foot in standing, and in the hips in the sitting attitude, that i of filling up vacuities in conjunction with the cellular tissue, and that of rendering the forms rounded in consequence. Accordingly these forms are more marked in women and children, which have in general a greater proportion of fat. The fat has been said to protect against cold, because it is a bad conductor of caloric; and the animals which inhabit cold climates are said to have a thick layer of it under their integuments. Admitting this to be the case, the surface of the skin at least would not be protected by the fat. It has been asserted, without reason, that it diminishes the nervous action and that of the muscles, in other words, sensibility and muscular energy. In this case the cause has been taken for the effect. Fourcroy, considering that this fluid contains an ex- * Philosophical Transactions. 1813.