OF THE COMMON ADIPOSE '1 ISSUE. 88 liog, iii which it forms lard; firm in the ruminating animals, in which it is called suet or tallow, &c. The size of the adipose ve- sicles is not the same in all animals. According to Wolff's obser- vations, they increase successively in the domestic fowl, the goose, man, the ox, and the hog. The fat also accumulates in different regions, in various animals, as on the back of the camel and dro- medary, in the tail of certain races of sheep, &c. Even in the human species, the Bushman tribe is remarkable for the promi- nence of the hips in the females, caused by the accumulation of fat, of which a recent example was seen in Europe in the Hottentot Venus. 164. The different degrees of fatness determine great differences in the quantity of the fat. In obesity, it forms from the half to four-fifths of the whole weight of the body. On the other hand, in extreme emaciation, the fat exists only in some places. Women, in general, have more fat than men. Considerable differences eskst in this respect at different ages. The foetus is entirely destitute of fat until the middle of the fourth month. From that period until birth, the fat accumulates successively in the different parts. It at first exists only beneath the skin, and is there produced in iso- lated grains, which render its examination very difficult at this age. At birth, a large quantity is already found to exist under the inte- guments, and in the substance of the cheeks. The omentum also presents some isolated grains. The quantity of fat increases as the growth goes on, and it at length occupies the interstices of the muscles ; but it is not until a very advanced period that it is pro- duced around the viscera. The period at which the growth ends, is also the period of corpulence. Obesity is sometimes observed in children, but this is a much rarer occurrence. In old age, the quantity of fat diminishes, principally beneath the skin. That fluid then exists especially in the interior, as around the heart, in the medullary cavities of the bones, &c. 165. The properties and functions of the adipose tissue have re- lation only to the secretion of the fat. This secretion is not per- formed in glands or in particular conduits. Heister and Fanton were the first who raised doubts respecting the existence of these glands, of which many authors have spoken since Malpighi's error in respect to this subject. The secretion of the fat is a perspiratory secretion, and Riegel's attempt to revive the supposition of adi- pose conduits, at the same time that he proposed a hypothesis res- pecting the use of the suprarenal capsules, was without success. Ac- cording to that author, the fat which surrounds the kidneys, and exist in their pelvis, is formed in these capsules, * whence it is transported in particular conduits, which, however, he says he was unable to inject. Does the fat result immediately from the orga- nic action of the vessels which deposit in the adipose vesicles ? Or, is it already formed in the circulating blood ? Or, lastly, has it a " Dc ititt gluiuhtlarnm supcircmiltttm in uiiim ; ncc nun do origins adijih ufaj, Anat. l'ltUos. Jluitila: 1790.