234 ENVELOPES OF THE MUSCLES. sue, or with mucilaginous bursae, according to the extent of tlie shdings which they experience. Some are kept in place by rings or sheaths. The colour of the tendons is white, shining, with blue and green reflections, and silky or velvety aspect. The fibrous tissue of which they are composed contains in its intervals, in the larger at least, cellular tissue and small blood vessels. Some tendons have a fibro-cartilaginous texture. They are such as rub against bones. They even at length become bony in these points. Their essential properties are their inextensibility and power of cohesion, which render them qualified to transmit the action of the muscles to the bones, this being the only function which they have to perform. They are rarely altered. Puncture produces an indolent .swell- ing in them which slowly disappears by resolution. ARTICLE III. OF THE LIGAMENTOUS ENVELOPES. 517- In certain parts, envelopes are formed by ligamentous membranes, similar to those which the cellular tissue furnishes to the other organs. These membranes are the following: I. ENVELOPES OF THE tyUSCLES. 518. The envelopes of the muscles, or the enveloping aponeu- roses, also furnish, in some places, insertions to muscular fibres. They are of two kinds, some surrounding the muscles of the limbs, others investing those of the walls of the trunk- 510. The enveloping aponeuroses of the limbs, Fascia Muscu- lares,* are ligamentous membranes which surround the muscles of the limbs and keep them against the bones. These membranes have the form of sheaths. Their outer surface corresponds to tho cellular and adipose tissue, as well as to the subcutaneous vessels and nerves. Their inner surface corresponds to the muscles, fur- nishes attachments to some of them, sends between the greater part of them laminae, septa or prolongations which separate them from each other, furnish attachments to them, and terminate by ■being inserted upon the ridges and lines of the bones. Their ex- tremities are attached to the bones, receive insertions or expansions of the tendons, lose themselves insensibly in the cellular tissue, and in other places form annular ligaments to the tendons. Tliey consist of one or more layers of ligamentous tissue of variable thickness, and are proportionate in their thickness to the number * Ad. Murray, De Fascia Lata. Upsal, 177k