209 OdF THE VlilNS. •vei5. N I Cf. iave e' and. ''Or ( ate Me, ^ u«neous than , iViose of the ouOa^oi the \en» e um- and still few in numerous in lie most " 'sJesHSoin ivet I tie nils of the vein^ sv, separate from then,, ot its reiiuxtovrards the es in its passage- »1 thick walls at the lower part of the leg. Near their entrance into the heart, the veins have distinctly muscular fibres. The inner membrane, which is thin and transparent, differs from that of the arteries by its extensibility and its resistance to rupture, and by its filamentous texture, which becomes evident when it is distended and torn. The great veins of the skull or the sinuses, the veins of the bones and some others, are almost entirely constituted by the inner membrane, and are as it were scooped out in the sub- stance of the dura mater, the bones, &c. The walls of the veins are furnished with small blood vessels and nervous filaments which are traced into a part of their sub- stance. 448. The walls of the veins are whitish, semitransparent, and thinner than those of the arteries. In general, their thickness goes on increasing absolutely from the roots towards the trunks, and diminishing relatively to the diameter in the same direction. Their density is 115 or 110. The firmness of their walls is much less than that of the arteries, and they collapse when empty, ex- cepting those of the uterus, the liver, &c, which are attached to the substance of the organs. They are less extensible in the lon- gitudinal direction than the arteries, but much more so in the cir- ■ cular. It is generally admitted, since Wintringham1s experiments., that the veins oppose a much greater force to the causes of rupture than the arteries. But, in reality, the veins are weaker in the cir- cular direction than the arteries. They not only yield much more, but also tear across much more frequently than the .arteries, while, . on the other hand, they have appeared to me to resist distention in the longitudinal direction more. The walls of the veins are very elastic, but less so than those of the arteries. Their irrita- bility or vital contractility is, on the contrary, greater than that of :the arteries, but less than that of the capillary vessels. It has I been denied by several physiologists, but proved by many experi- i ments. It is sufficient to have observed the effect of local cold i upon the subcutaneous veins, and to know that a vein intercepted 1.between two ligatures, and punctured, empties itself entirely and ! rapidly in a living animal, while this does not take place after (.death, to admit the existence of irritability in the veins. Their feensibility is obscure or doubtful; Monro, in his Lectures, said he lhad felt the puncture of a denuded vein. The power of formation i of the veins is not less evident than that of the arteries. 449- The function of the veins is to conduct the blood from all Mparts of the body to the heart. It has been seen that each con- traction of the ventricles determines an augmentation in the con- tinued motion of the blood in the arteries. This augmentation l diminishes as the vessels become capillary. In the capillary ar- teries it is .uniform, and this is also the case in the veins in gene- ral. In the veins, the blood is animated with the motion impress- ed by the heart, the arteries, and v the capillary vessels. Do the