INTRODUCTION. The ligamentous or desmeous system, which comprehends organs possessed of great tenacity and adhesion, also results from a modi- fication of the cellular tissue. Lastly, the cartilaginous and osseous systems also belong to the cellular tissue, and owe their solidity to its condensation, and to the great quantity of earthy salts which that substance contains. The second order of organs is formed essentially by the muscular fibre. It comprehends the muscles, whether those which belong to the bones, or those of the external and internal integuments, and of the organs of sense or those of the heart. The nerves and the central nervous masses constitute the third and last order of organs, which is formed essentially by the nervous substance. It will be seen that this classification rests upon the foundations laid by Haller, and which truly exist in nature. 90. As to the successive order in which the genera of organs ought to be arranged, it may be founded on various bases. If re- gard be had to the greater or less universality of the organs in the series of animals, the cellular tissue must always be placed first. After it would come the tegumentary organs, then the muscles and nerves, then the vessels, and then the glands. The cartilaginous and osseous tissues, the ligamentous and serous, would come last, as peculiar to the vertebrate animals. Another order would be followed, were the genera of organs which belong to the common or vegetative functions put first, and those which form the apparatus of the functions peculiar to animals in the second place. Another order still would be established, were we, like Bichat, to take the general systems first, as the cellular tissue, the vessels and nerves, and then the particular systems. It is not, indeed, of great im- portance, but it is preferable to rank the organs according to their similarity. This is the order followed above. 91. Some physiologists still place the horny or epidermic sub- stance among the primitive fibres ; but that substance, being al- most inorganic, and the product of excretion, cannot be consider- ed as an anatomical element. The characters which are assigned to it are the following. It contains no distinct cellulosity; macera- tion reduces it to a kind of mucilage; chemistry demonstrates in it albumen according to some, or mucus according to others, in which there is perhaps little discrepancy, as mucus appears to be albumen united with soda. This substance is that which consti- tutes the epidermis, the nails or claws, the hairs, and all the horny parts of animals. Although there may appear to be a slight dif- ference between the horny and epidermic matters, the difference is not so great as to prevent their being referred to the same sub- stance. M. Meyer, who has lately given a new classification of the solids of the human body, considers the membrane of the tym- panum, the cornea and the crystalline lens, as formed of this sub- stance, which he calls the scaly or foliated tissue; but these parts, and especially the two first, arc widely different from it. The cpi-