OF THE INTERNAL MUSCLES. 308 tissues, are rarely observed in the muscles. Accidental bones, however, sometimes occur in them. 1 once saw an osseous and cancerous compound production occupying the muscles of the calf. The leprous cysticercus (Cyuticerciis Celkilosce of Rudolphi) sometimes occurs in the human muscles, and in those of the hog. The accidental production of the muscular tissue is of very rare occurrence, if, indeed, it ever takes place. Sarcoma, however, has been considered as approaching in its nature to muscular substance. Accidental muscular productions arc also said to have been observed in the serous membranes, the bones, and ovaries; but it would seem that in this matter observers have allowed themselves to be deceived by appearances. The development of the muscular texture in the uterus, during pregnancy, and the disappearance of that texture after parturition, make an approach to an accidental production* 700. The functions of the muscles present variations and alter- ations of which some have their seat and cause in the muscular tissue itself, and the others in the nervous system. These varia- tions and alterations are for the most part different in the two kinds of muscles, and almost all are proper to the full, external, vo- luntary muscles, or those which belong to the animal functions. SECOND SECTION. OF THE INTERNAL MUSCLES. 701. The internal muscles, which are also named hollow ton's* cles, involuntary muscles, and muscles of the vegetative or organic functions, have no proper names, each bearing the name of the or- gan which it contributes to form. 702. These muscles are: 1st, the heart; 2dly, those which en- velope, in its whole extent, the mucous membrane of the aliment- ary passages 5 those which, uniting themselves to the urinary and genital prolongations of the same membrane, form the bladder, ve- siculae seminales, and uterus; and those of its pulmonary pro- longation, which form the muscular fasciculi of the trachea and bronchi. The sphincters which are observed at the orifices of the alimentary canal, and urinary, arid genital passages, may be con- sidered as intermediate between the two classes of muscles. The muscles which are subservient to digestion, respiration, generation, and urinary excretion are all, in respect to their texture, and espe- cially their functions, in the same predicament. There is, there- fore, no very distinct demarcation between the two classes of mus- cles. 703. The muscles of which we here speak are placed at the in- terior, some situated beneath the internal tegument, another, the heart, situated in the most central part and at a distance from the two surfaces with which it has no connexion.