01' THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. the cntl of a very long period, no adhesion at all is seen. These different gradations were all met with in the body of an individual, who being affected with melancholy, had inflicted on himself* at different times twelve or fifteen wounds with a knife, and whom I had occasion to dissect. 197- The serous membranes undergo various transformations, or, to speak more correctly, are the seat of various accidental pro- ductions. Fibrous, cartilaginous, fibro-cartilaginous and even bony plates, are sometimes observed in their substance, and in particular in the pleura, which sometimes forms a kind of scutum after chronic pleurisies. Most commonly, it is true, these plates arc simply subjacent or superapplicd to them. Free concretions and others with stalks or pedicels have their seat in the interior of these membranes. They occur more particularly in the serous membranes of the joints, sometimes however in those of the tendons, and even in the splanchnic cavities. They are at first external to the membrane, then gra- dually push it before them, and project in its interior, where they present a broad and short base, and at a more advanced period a pedicel which gradually becomes longer and more slender, until at length the pedicel breaking, they become en- tirely free in the cavity of the membrane. Such is the true me- chanism of the f ormation of these bodies, which were taken for true concretions, when they had not been observed at different stages of their development. The consistence of these bodies varies. They are sometimes very soft and as it were albuminous, but more commonly they are fibrous, cartilaginous, or bony. The serous membranes participate in the degenerations common to all the tissues ; they also appear to have some peculiar to them- selves. 198. Vices of conformation arc observed in some of these mem- branes, as in the arachnoid membrane of anencephalous foetuses ; in the peritoneum and tunica vaginalis, when the canal of commu- nication between these two membranous sacs subsists after birth. A kind of supernumerary sacs has been met with in the perito- neum, of which Neubaur relates examples. The acquired vices of conformation are equally proper to a small number of these mem- branes, and belong to particular anatomy. Hernia? forms one of these defects. 199- The cysts may be described in speaking of the serous mem- branes. It is in fact to these organs that they bear the greatest re- semblance. They represent in general, like the parts which the serous system comprehends, a membranous bag or cavity, closed on all hands, adhering at one side, free at the other, and in con- tact with a fluid which fills it. They are generally of a globular form. Their volume varies from that of a grain of millet seed to that of the distended abdomen. They are sometimes isolated and sometimes grouped several together, and communicating with each other. Their outer surface is floculcnt, cellular, sometimes fur- nished with lamina? or even with a fibrous layer. Sometimes this