OE THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. lf>5 tarteries, is of a bright red colour, and is called arterial blood. The t circulation has also been divided, with reference to the blood which iit conducts, into that of the black blood, and that of the red t blood. Bichat, the author of this division, of which Galen had an i idea (2d Sect.) has thought proper to describe the passages of the rfirst under the naine of vascular system, containing black blood, and :to unite those of the second under the name of vascular system \with red blood. It will afterwards be seen that this division, which i is fertile in results, rests entirely upon a physiological basis, and i not upon a similarity of texture in the parts. 351. The three species of vessels bearing a great resemblance to i each other, the two sanguiferous vascular systems in particular hav- iing a great mutual affinity, and the venous and lymphatic systems I also greatly resembling each other, it becomes necessary, before i describing each kind, to expose the general considerations in ques- tion, both with reference to the vessels generally, and with re- : spect to their terminations. SECTION FIRST. ARTICLE FIRST. OF THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. 352. The situation of the vessels is internal. The largest are in general placed towards the centre of the body, and at the sur- faces there are only found divisions of extreme minuteness, and even these are separated from the external parts by a layer of sub- stance not possessed of vascularity. The principal vessels, whether in the trunk or in the limbs, are in general placed in the direction in which the parts bend upon each other. In general, there occur together an artery, one or two veins, and several lymphatic vessels. Moreover, there are found be- neath the skin numerous lymphatic vessels and veins, and few arteries. 353. The relative size of the vessels of the three kinds is such that in general the afferent vessels, the veins and lymphatics, are together much more voluminous than the arteries which carry the blood. Even the veins of themselves have in general a much greater capacity than the arteries to which they correspond. The relation of volume and number, or of total capacity, between the venous and lymphatic vessels is less known. It is well known how- ever that under the skin, under the mucous membranes, and around the serous membranes, there are always numerous veins and lym- phatics ; and that in the muscular interstices of the limbs and walls