OF THE SYNOVIAL CAPSULES OF THE JOINTS. Ill which opens at the surface of the body, and, in either case, the motions of the part are lost. When the adhesion is filamentous, it is sometimes at length broken up. Chronic inflammation pro- duces nearly the same results, it may also induce ulceration. Solid cartilaginous bodies have been found by Monro, and af- terwards by many observers, in the interior of these membranes. There often occur in them, and in very great number, small bodies nearly of the form and size of grape stones or seeds of pears or apples, which have been supposed to be animated, and which it has been proposed to name Acephalocystis plana. They have been most commonly formed under the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and sometimes in other membranes of the tendons, as those of the glutaeus maximus, flexor longus pollicis, &c. Incision gives issue to them, but there commonly results a very severe inflamma- tion, and in the most fortunate cases, an intimate adhesion, which, at the wrist, for example, confounds all the flexor tendons into a single parcel, and render the fingers immoveable. In general, in- flammation of the tendinous synovial membranes deserves to fix the attention of pathologists, as is also the case with most of their morbid alterations, which have often been confounded under the name of white swellings, with the diseases of the joints, in the neighbourhood of which they are situated. ARTICLE THIRD. OF THE SYNOVIAL CAPSULES OF THE JOINTS. 210. Under the name of Articular Synovial Capsules, Capsnlce Synoviales, are designated the serous membranes of the diarthro- dial articulations. Most of them belong to bones, although some belong to cartilages, as is the case with respect to the larynx. These membranes, like the preceding, are moistened by a fluid at their interior, and in the same manner facilitate the sliding of the parts which they cover. They were long confounded with the capsular ligaments of the joints. Nesbitt, Bonn, and W. Hunter, had observed that they form a membrane distinct from the articular ligaments and carti- lages. Monro first remarked their resemblance to the other syno- vial and serous membranes. Bichat drew the attention of anato- mists more to these organs, and gave a more complete general de- scription of them. Monro and Mascagni have given figures of them. 211. The number of these membranes is very great, there being nearly as many of them as there are joints. The number is not precisely equal to that of the articulations, because, on the one hand, certain of these membranes are common to several articula- tions, as is observed in the carpus, and, on the other hand, because