254 OF THE BONES. situation and uses of the parts. Thus, the outer surface of the frontal bone is divided into an orbitar and nasal region, a frontal region, &c. There are also admitted in the bones geometrical regions or parts of their extent. Thus, there are distinguished and described in the long bones, a body or central part and extremities; in the broad bones, faces, edges, and angles, &c. but these terms are not strictly applied, for planes and angles are very rare and imperfect in the organization. 577- The bones present at their surface eminences and depres- sions which are greatly diversified. The eminences of the bones are distinguished into epiphyses and apophyses. The epiphyses have relation to the development, and will be described when we speak of it. The apophyses are bony eminences, continuous with the sub- stance of the bones. They are extremely numerous and highly diversified. Few objects in anatomy have, accordingly, been more differently arranged. They are distinguished into articular and non-articular. The former will be described as we proceed. The non-articular apophyses are somewhat rough. Their size and their very diversified form allow them to be divided in- to three kinds. Some, which are long and projecting like a branch or a bony ramification, bear the name of branches, processes, and apophyses, properly so called. Others, which are shorter and thicker, bear the name of protu- berances, tuberosities, and tubercles. The others, which are elongated, narrow, and little protruding, bear the name of crests, ridges, and lines. The synonymy of these different kinds of eminences is very complicated and difficult. They are generally designated each by names derived from trivial and rather loose comparisons, some- times also by names derived from their situation, their size, their direction, and their uses. Their general use is that of affording insertion to ligaments and tendons. 578. The external cavities of the bones are, like their eminences, distinguished into articular and non-articular. It is of the latter only that we have to speak here. Of these cavities, some traverse, and others do not traverse, the substance of the bone. Of the latter, some have a widened en- trance, sloped in all directions. These are fossae, fossettes, and digital impressions. The others have the bottom wide, and the entrance narrow, and are lined by the mucous membrane, and fill- ed with air. These are sinuses, and when they are divided into several cavities, cells, or cellules. Others are elongated, narrow, more or less deep. These are called furrows, channels, meatuses, and grooves. The cavities of this latter kind, when they exist on the edge of bones, bear the name of notches or incisions. Of the cavities which traverse the bones from side to side, some