OF THE HUMAN BODY. 49. menstrual blood of the female. The arterial blood presents more coloured particles than the venous blood. In persons who make use of succulent food, the blood abounds in albumen, and in oppo- site circumstances is more serous. The repeated abstraction of blood diminishes the proportion of coloured particles in it, and even that of albumen, and augments the proportion of water. In diseases, the blood undergoes alterations which have not yet been sufficiently examined. In inflammations, the clot of the ex- tracted blood becomes covered with a white crust, which consists of fibrine, and a great quantity of free colouring matter is found in it. In other diseases, as scurvy and putrid diseases, the blood loses its coagulability and remains fluid after abstraction. There are many diseases which an attentive examination of the blood would tend greatly to elucidate. 79- The fluids which arrive in the blood are the chyle and the lymph. The first comes from the chyme, a grayish, pultaceous substance, into which the food is converted into the stomach, and in which some small globules begin to be perceived. On being absorbed by the walls of the intestine, and when it has arrived in the first chyliferous vessels, it is whitish and scarcely coagulable. In the glands of the mesentery it becomes more coagulable, and assumes a reddish tint. Lastly, in the thoracic duct, and when on the point of passing into the mass of the blood, it is distinctly rose- coloured, decidedly coagulable, and contains naked globules and particles which differ from those of the blood only in having a less intense colour. It would then seem only to require being submit- ted to the respiratory action to become perfect blood. The lymph, a cloudless, viscid and albuminous fluid, but little known, is the other humour which enters the mass of the blood. 80. The humours which emanate from the blood are separated from it by secretion. To those humours may be referred the nu- tritive mass left by the blood in all the organs by a kind of nutri- tive secretion, as well as those which are produced and deposited as in reserve, by a secretion which may be called intrinsic, in the closed cavities of the body, as the fat, the serous fluids and the synovia. But those which are especially referrible to this kind are the humours secreted at the surface of the external or internal in- teguments and their more or less distant dependencies. They are distinguished, according to their mode of formation, 1st, Into per- spiratory humours, which are immediately formed and deposited at the surface by the vessels, of which kind are the matters of the cu- taneous transpiration, sweat, and pulmonary perspiration; 2dly, Into follicular humours, which are at first deposited in folliculi or ampulhc of the internal or external skin, of which kind are the mu- cus and sebaceous matter; 3dly, Into glandular humours, formed in glands, which are particular organs having branched excretory ducts, which have their orifice on the skin and mucous membranes, of which they are branched prolongations, of which kind arc the saliva secreted by the salivary glands, the bile secreted by the li- ver, &c., the secreted humours are also distinguished according to