OF THE SEItOUS MEMBRANES. 99 ril/ous membranes. This surface is constantly moistened by a fluid. 185. The serous membranes are in general of a whitish colour, which their transparence renders hardly perceptible, glistening on their free surface, very thin, and yet possessed of considerable firm- ness, and stronger than the cellular tissue would be were it re- duced to the same state of tenuity. They are in general some- what elastic. 186. At first sight they seem almost homogeneous ; there is al- ways, however, observed in various points of their extent, a fibrous appearance which is more or less marked. When they are torn asunder by stretching, they stretch at first, and then resolve them- selves into small filaments interwoven together. Their nature ap- pears greatly to resemble that of the cellular tissue, from which they differ only in being more condensed, and in forming the bounda- ries of a great cavity. Besides, there exists a kind of insensible gradation between the cellular tissue and the serous membranes, and the more simple of the latter bear a great resemblance to the former. The very loose cellular tissue which by insufflation may be formed into large ampullae, such as that of the prepuce, that which occurs between the muscles that perform extensive motions, the subcutaneous synovial bursa?, in fact form a transition between the two kinds of tissue. Very numerous white vessels enter into the composition of these membranes. They are rendered very appar- ent by the injection of coloured liquids, and by inflammation which fills them with red blood, and in these cases their number appears very great. We must not, however, confound the vessels proper to the serous membrane with those which belong to the subjacent cellular tissue, and which might be thought to exist in the mem- brane itself, on account of its transparency. In the peritoneum, for example, inflammation must have long gone on before the blood arrives beyond the subserous cellular tissue; and, on examining the thing without much attention, one might be led to suppose th at it was the peritoneum itself which the disease had rendered vascular. It is the same with injections, and it is only when they arc very fine that they penetrate into the membrane itself. The nerves of the serous membranes have not been demonstrated. 187. The fluid which these membranes contains is not the same m all; however, it has a greater or less resemblance to the serum of the blood, or to blood deprived of colouring matter. It contains in general water, albumen, an incoagulable matter which may be regarded as a kind of gelatinous mucus, a fibrinous matter and soda. We shall sec as we proceed the differences which this fluid presents in the different kinds of serous membranes. 188. The serous membranes, especially during life, are extensile and retractile in a high degree, as is seen in dropsies, and after the removal of these diseases ; but their enlargement is not always mere- ly a result of their extensibility ; there is moreover a disappear- ance of their folds, which, by gradually developing themselves, al- ow tho m.-mbrano to increase in extent. Another cause which