CltJ. X Or THE EXTERNAL MUSCLES. 321 ^ by of the tK/ ^ ""'Softie and even - Arts occasionally er£1J ?cfe, tendons or Wes, i hemorrhages and efili- al joints may moire them ■ having I fatter on the metacir-1 i/'tAewevejawtri- • ^ where tie common cleg, ffld*beie era- t3r only to the nro bun«; tw ari atttinth1 tion. In other cases, the muscle being reflected, the direction of the motion is determined by that of the portion of the muscle which extends from the place where it changes its direction to the mobile part. Thus the motion impressed by the obliquus oculi longus, by the circumflexus muscle of the palate, the lateral peronaei, &c, has a direction determined by thatof the last portion of these muscles. The direction of the motion 'n frequently in a great measure determined by that of the articulations of the bones. Thus the bones articu- lated by ginglymus and by rotatory articulation, although most of them have oblique muscles, move in only two opposite directions. Thus, on the other hand, the same muscle, the biceps flexor, without changing its direction, produces by its contraction the su- pination and flexion of the fore-arm. Thus also, the pyramidales, gemelli, &c, which are rotators of the thigh outwards, when it is extended, become abductors when it is bent. 732. In many cases the muscular motions are compound; seve- ral muscles contracting simultaneously, impress upon a moveable part a motion different from that which results from the contraction of each of them in particular. Thus, if the rectus superior and rectus externus of the eye contract together and with equal force, the eye obeying these different forces, the pupil will be directed upwards and outwards. Thus, if the pectoralis major, which car- ries the arm inwards and forwards, contracts at the same time with the latissimus dorsi, which carries it inwards and backwards, the arm will be carried, by a compound motion, directly inwards. The motions of the shoulder are always compound. Many other parts #re often so also ; and were it not so, the motions, which are so varied, would be extremely limited. 733. The motions of the voluntary muscles are in fact most com- monly combined. In this respect, the muscular actions may be distinguished into isolated motions, resulting from a single muscle in contraction ; associated or combined motions, resulting from the action of several muscles, whether congenerous or antagonist, which are associated to produce determinate motions, as those of flexion, extension, &c, co-ordinated motions, as those which by their as- sociation produce standing, locomotion, &c, lastly, actions of the will, or muscular actions directed by volition. These variations in muscular action depend upon the nervous influence, according as iit is voluntary, and according as, without the influence of the will, i it is determined by irritation of the nervous centre, by that of the 1 plexus of a limb, or only by that of an isolated nerve. 734-. The contraction of the external muscles, through causes 'which act upon the muscular tissue, or upon the nerves, or upon I the nervous centre, sometimes becomes feeble and uncertain (in ttrembling) ; impossible (in paralysis) ; permanent (in tonic spasm tor contraction, tetanus) ; or involuntary and irregular (in convul- , clonic spasm or contraction.)