01- THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 34 1 tthc nervous system. It is often the result of an inflammation. In some cases, however, it appears to be independent of inflammation. The induration* of the nervous system has been observed by M. Esquirol and M. S. Pinel, who has given an excellent description .of it. The hardened nervous tissue presents a compact mass, of an organic appearance. It resembles in colour, consistence and (density, the white of an egg greatly hardened by boiling. No 1 blood-vessels are perceived in it, and it appears shrunk upen itself. The hardening appears to affect the white substance particularly. I t has been observed in the bodies of idiots, in the brain, the ccre- lbellum and the spinal marrow, where it renders the fibrous dispo- sition of the white nervous substance very manifest. 767- The nervous system is subject to numerous affections,^ ; the principal of which are, in the central mass, sanguineous con- gestion with or without effusion ; inflammation and its various de- agrees ; the various products of chronic affections, as encysted ab- scesses, the production of tubercles, schirri, cancers, fibrous tu- nnours, osseus tumours, hydatids, and foreign bodies. The mem- Ibranes which envelope the central nervous mass are equally the (frequent seat of sudden congestions with bloody or serous exhala- tion, of acute inflammation in different degrees, and of chronic in- tflammation. Acute and chronic hydrocephalus have been observ- icd in it. The affections of the nervous substance and those of its imembranes may be complicated together. The affections of the spinal marrow are not so common in man i as those of the encephalon. The reverse is the case in animals. These different alterations, according as they are acute in chro- mic, according as they act by irritating, destroying or compressing, ;and according to their seat, induce various more or less dangerous (derangement in the functions of the nervous system. 768. The nervous tissue is not produced accidentally. The affinity •supposed by M. Maunoir to exist between this tissue and the cere- briform production, rests on insufficient semblances. The nervous tissue when wounded cicatrizes when the wound is i of such a nature as not to destroy the individual. Wounds of the encephalon and spinal marrow, when not mortal, I unite like those of the other parts. Wounds of the encephalon, »with loss of substance of its envelopes heal by the formation of an (external cicatrix. This fact has been observed, by M. Dumcril, in salamanders, and by many surgeons in the human species. Wounds, with loss of substance of the brain, the skull remaining (entire, heal by the formation of a new substance, which is soft, in some degree resembling mucus, and is not entirely similar to that .of the organ, and by the widening of the corresponding ventricle i of the brain. Lacerations of the encephalon, produced by bloody (effusion, present, when the individual survives, remarkable pheno- » I'inel the Younger, licclterchet sur VEildurciisemcnt du Siistcme Nerveux. Paris 11822. J ' t lallcraant. Beclicrchcs Anal. Path, sur VEncqiUak et scs Dejicudaitccs.