OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 34.3 ly acquainted with all the pairs of nerves which are known at the present clay ; but did not classify, number or name them as is now done. Willis gave them numerical names and proper names, by which they have generally been known since his time, viz. 1st, The olfactory nerves ; 2d, The optic or visual nerves ; 3dly, The motory nerves of the eyes ; 4thly, The pathetic nerves of the eyes ; Stilly, The fifth pair; 6thly, The sixth pair; 7thly, The seventh pair, composed of a hard part and a soft or auditory part. 8thly, The eighth, or the par vagum, with its spinal or accessory nerve. 9thly, The ninth pair, or the motory nerves of the tongue. lOthly, The tenth pair, or the sub-occipital nerve. The nerves of the spinal marrow ; and the intercostal or sympathetic nerve. M. Soemmering has modified Willis's division. He proposes forty-three pairs of nerves, of which twelve pairs belong to the brain ; by dividing the seventh pair of Willis into the seventh or facial, and the eighth or auditory ; his eighth into the ninth or glossopharyngeal, the tenth or nervus vagus, and the eleventh or accessory nerve, the twelfth being the hypoglossal; and by plac- ing the sub-occipital among the spinal nerves, which are then thirty pairs, the great sympathetic nerve forming the forty-third pair. These modifications have been generally adopted. Bichat has distinguished the encephalic or cranial nerves, into those of the brain, those of the protuberance, and those of the me- dulla oblongata. This division is not founded upon accurate obser- vations. The nerves may be accurately distinguished,* 1st, into nerves having a double root, the one attached to the anterior column, the other to the posterior column of the spinal marrow : They are the spinal nerves, the infra-occipital nerve and the trifacial or fifth pair of cranial nerves. These nerves are at the same time subservient to sensibility and muscular motion. 2dly, Into nerves having a single root. These are the first pair, the second, and the eighth, f or the olfactory, optic and auditory nerves ; and the third, the fourth and the sixth, or the motory nerves of the eye ; and the twelfth, or the motory nerves of the tongue. These nerves are exclusively subservient, some to sensibility, the others to muscular motion. 3dly, Into respiratory nerves, and nerves of the voice " The division proposed here by the distinguished author is not only anatomically inexact, hut contrary to the most common observation ; the eighth pair being not on- ly a nerve provided with a double root, and ganglion, but the most important of all the double-rooted nerves. I should be inclined to call it a respiratory nerve, if I could imagine any good to result from this name. It seems to me a retrograding in physiology, to substitute the term respiratory, as applied to this nerve, for that of pneumo-gastric, in as much as the function of the nerve is not exclusively respi- ratory. I had thought also, that every comparative anatomist had been aware of the fact, that the respiratory branch of this nerve is so delicate in some animals, (rep- tiles,) that its existence had been called in question, and yet the gastric branches in these same animals are by no means deficient. In fishes the respiratory or bran- chial and gastric branches arc equally powerfully developed. To reason then about this nerve, as exclusively respiratory, must lead to error. K. f The learned author no doubt means the scvcnlh.