OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 850 sheaths of the nerve, as is observed with respect to the muscular bundles and the fibres of which they are composed. In neuralgia', this tissue is sometimes the seat of an oedema or infiltration, which renders it in certain cases compact and condensed. At other times it is the seat of a congestion of blood, or of a very in- tense redness, as Cotugno and others have observed; which would lead to the inference that these painful affections depend upon its inflammation. Fat may also accumulate in this tis- sue. The medullary fibres contained in the tubes of neurilema are of the same nature as those of the brain and spinal marrow. 780. The blood-vessels of the nerves penetrate between the cords of which they are composed, and divide, for the most part, into two twigs, the one direct, the other retrograde. Their number is great, and in fortunate injections the whole neurilema is covered with them. They are seen by means of a lens to extend over the neurilema of the nervous filaments, which is itself formed of fi- brous cellular tissue and blood-vessels, no lymphatics have been discovered in the nerves. 781. The structure of the nerves is not precisely the same in all. In the greater number of the researches that have been in- stituted on this subject, the optic nerve has been selected, because the filaments are larger in it, and because it is easy to fill the neurilematous tubes in it. Now, this nerve differs from the others in this respect, that its tubes are separated by common septa, which come off from the interior of the general sheath. The struc- ture of the nerves has however also been observed in other nerves, and especially in those of the muscles, in which the filaments are more distinct than in the nerves of the organs of sense and skin. 782. Reil, to whom we owe almost all that is known respecting the structure of the nerves, has pointed out the means by which it may be observed. By washing a nerve with water and nitric acid, the neurilema is, after a certain time, entirely destroyed, and there remain the medullary filaments, which may be seen crossing each other nearly in the same manner in which the optic nerves cross at their commissure. On the other hand, by immersing the nerve in soap-boiler's lees, which may be considered as an alkaline solution of subcarbonate of soda, the medullary substance is de- stroyed, and the sheaths of neurilema are obtained. To prevent their collapsing, air is blown into them, which is very easily done, by impelling that fluid into one of them, as they all communicate together. The nerve is then tied at its two ends. When dried in this state, it presents, on being cut, a multitude of minute tubes, opening into each other, which gives it the internal appear- ance of a reed. These observations, which have since been fre- quently repeated, demonstrate the two different substances of which the nerve is composed. The observations of Sir Everard Home on the optic nerve have shown that the medullary filaments, of which it is composed, aug-