APPENDIX. t An. Gen. t. iii. p. 135- 390 must have remarked the facility with which the membrane may be re- moved ; and hence, in early years, ;i partial destruction of periosteum does not necessarily give rise to an exfoliation from the surface of the hone; but, in the adult or aged, the death and separation of an external lamina of bone will generally follow the destruction of its correspond- ing periosteum, 1o winch the want of pliability in the various tissues of the aged may somewhat contribute. In the history of the formation and growth of callus, as given by Hallcr from the experiments of his pupil Detleff, there is much accu- racy of observation, truth and beauty in the details, and clearness and precision in most of the conclusions. But whoever carefully peruses these experiments, will, I imagine, be satisfied, that they are applicable to cases of simple fracture only ; that they do not explain the reunit- ing process in compound fractures, and can never be applied to the dis- ease called necrosis, or to the regeneration of bone, which usually hap- pens to a greater or less extent as a consequence of this disease. This eminent writer was, moreover, unfortunate in the employment of the term callus, and of some mechanical explanations, which have been singularly misrepresented by his antagonists. Some years afterwards, Bichat, in his " Anatomic Generale," adopt- ing a very confined and partial view of the subject, boldly asserted that Haller was wrong. He next describes the manner in which he sup- • poses fractured bones are reunited,—a description applicable only to compound fractures. He does not condescend to detail the experi- ments (if any were ever made) which led him to these conclusions. Hence we are necessitated to conclude, that being but little acquainted with the subject, he resorted to those sweeping analogies, which form at once the merits and defects of his writings. * The description given lately of the formation of callus by some ex- perimental authors, agrees very nearly with the opinion entertained by Hunter, Haller, and other writers of their times. They divide the phenomena into three stages; but this must have been done merely for the convenience of description, since no such exist in nature. In the first period of simple fracture, they have ascertained-]- that there is an effusion of blood and coagulable lymph; that the colouring matter of the blood soon disappears ; and (what might very readily have been imagined, independent of all experiment,) that the periosteum, me- dullary membrane, and other soft parts, speedily reunite. Now, all these appearances were well known, and had been well described, partly by Haller, Detlef, and others, but most minutely by Mr. J. Hunter and his pupils. Modern experimenters, however, imagine, that the fluid effused between the fractured extremities differ from the mere coagulable part of the blood, which they suppose to have been absorb- ed ; a conjecture which, when proved, would give support to the opi- nion of Haller. In the second stage, they describe an inflammation and swelling of • What, lor instance, can be fancied more incorrect than the following passage, in which he endeavours to refute the experience of ages, because it is at variance with some one of his ill.digested theories? " Reeouvrez avec la peau l'extremite osseuse du moignon .impute"; deja celle-ei suppurera, que l'os commencera a peine a se ramollir; aussi les bons pvacticier.s ont ils renoncfi a cos pretendues reunions bar premiere intention, si vantces a la suite de Pamputation i\ lambeux." t + See " Additions a l'Anatomic Generale de Bichat, par lieclard."