43 OF THE HUMAN BODY. General Anatomy, viewing together the organs which resemble each other in their texture, and confining itself to what they pos- sess in common, has for its especial, but not its only object, their texture. The special anatomy of organs, improperly called de- scriptive anatomy, takes cognizance particularly of their conforma- tion ; for it is in this especially that they differ from each other. Their respective situation forms the essential object of the anato- my of regions or topography. 66. The external conformation of the human body is symmetri- cal :* it is divided into two similar lateral portions by a vertical median line. This line even appears defined in some places, where it forms what are called raphae or seams, which seem, in fact, to result from a kind of seam, or meeting of two lateral parts origin- ally separated. The symmetrical disposition is not equally dis- tinct in all parts of the body: it is more so in the organs of the animal functions, and less in those of the vegetative functions, those of nutrition in particular. In fact, the bones, the nervous system, the organs of sense, and the muscles, are the most symme- trical parts; and the organs of digestion, circulation, and respira- tion, are less so than the genital organs. It would not, however, be correct to say, that symmetry belongs to the former, and is fo- reign to the latter : it belongs more to the external parts in gene- ral, and is less distinct in the deep-seated parts. Thus, the lac- rymal and salivary glands, the thyroid gland, the mammae, the testicles, and all the organs of the functions of nutrition and gene- ration, are symmetrical; while the nerves of the larynx, stomach, and intestines, and the diaphragm, are not. It is also observed, that certain parts which are developed at a later period, are less symmetrical than those of the same kind which are sooner deve- loped. Thus, in the nervous system, the spinal marrow, which is first developed, is more symmetrical than the brain ; the ribs are more symmetrical than the vertebral shaft or the sternum. Last- ly, it is observed that the parts are more symmetrical at the epoch of their formation, and that this kind of regularity afterwards al- ters : the stomach, intestine, and liver, are at first much less irre- gular than they afterwards become; the vertebral column, which is at first precisely in the middle, is turned a little to the left, from the predominance of the right arm, and from this also result the inclination of the nose, the unequal elevation of the testicles, the frequency of herniae on the right side, &c. There is some- times observed such a derangement of symmetry, that the organs of one side occupy the opposite side, and vice versa : this is what is called transposition of the viscera. In this case, which occurs about once in every three or four thousand subjects, and which I have seen four or five times, the right lung, the liver, and the cce- cum are placed on the left side, and the two-lobed lung, the apex of the heart, the spleen, the sigmoid portion of the colon, Sic. are • Sec amoiiff others, Bichat, lice!,. Physiol, sur la Vic ct la Mori.— Meckel, JJcitr. Zut Vcrgt, Anal. Leipzig, 181?.