I 2W OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA. swelled or dilated into cellules. Most of the lymphatic glands is to say, some have slender radicles, and others roots which are °^er. and is c 1 Therasa lf other eitmnitv of! Tie total capaa'ty of' in that of the via i' ra«entery. iMe bloodvessels, The' is to colour tie glands, are still larger than the, filaments are seen ar- h them; but it is very ^ and Walter denpg i^tktd- both having numerous anastomotic communications. The roots of the vasa efferentia present on their part the same disposition, that present this mixture of slender ramifications and inflated parts in their interior. Some of them scarcely present any branches dilated into cellules ; some others seem to consist only of a net-work of minute ramifications. These variations account for the diversity of opinion which exists on this point of anatomy. The lymphatic glands contain in their interior a creamy or milk- like substance, which appears to be contained in the minute or wide vessels of which they are composed, and not in the cellular tissue. 475. These ganglia are larger, softer, more reddish, and contain more fluid in children and young subjects than in adults. They ■ diminish greatly, but do not disappear, in old age. There is no decided difference in this respect between the sexes. Hewson says that they are larger in man, while Bichat says the contrary. They have been found black under the skin of negroes. 476. The function which is attributed to the lymphatic glands is that of serving to mingle fluids arriving by different vasa infef- 1 rentia, and of elaborating the lymph and chyle. The fluids are 1 then carried off by the lymphatic vasa efferentia, and perhaps in part by the veins. This last point has been denied by many ana- I tomists and physiologists of great name, as Haller, Cruickshank, Hewson, Mascagni, Soemmering, &c.; but it is to be feared that 1 the authority of these celebrated men has caused a truth to be re- jected without examination. Besides the facts already adduced above in favour of the opinion iin question, it may be said that many observers have perceived sstreaks of chyle in the vena portae. It may be added, that a very jgreat number of anatomists, and myself a number of times, have ■seen the mercury introduced into the lymphatic vessels of the me- sentery, pass, beyond a gland, at the same time in the vasa effe- rrentia and in the veins of the gland. Now this passage is too easy rand too constant to depend upon a double rupture, and not upon ia natural communication of the lymphatic vessels and veins. 477- Besides the diseases of the lymphatic glands and vessels, * aas inflammation of both, wounds and ruptures of the vessels, their waricose dilatation, their contraction and obliteration, tubercles and other morbid productions in the glands, &c. the lymphatic system, lunder the consideration of its being an apparatus of absorption, lhas been made to exert a very great and very exaggerated influence iin most diseases. • S. Th. Soemmering, De Morbis Vasorum Absorbenlium Corp. Hum. 8vo. Traj. iad Mcen.1795.