elongated and has one finger, and two others in a rudimentary 1 lilt' 4' OF THE VEUTKUUATE ANIMALS. 37 s"o have large hooked fangs separated from the other teeth, and a peculiar disposition of the jaw. Their upper maxillary hones arc very small, and home upon a long pedicel resembling the external pterygoid process, and possessed of great mobility : there is at- tached to it a tooth, which contains a small canal, through which issues the venomous fluid, secreted by a large gland situated under the eye. This tooth, which together with several subsidiary germs is placed upon the maxillary bone, is concealed by means of the mobility of that bone, in a fold of the gum when the animal does ; not make use of it. The Batrachia, or frogs, toads and salamanders, have a single auricle, and a single ventricle in their heart. They have lungs, : and, in early age, branchiae resembling those of fishes. In this : first state, the circulation is like that of fishes; the artery divides in the branchiae; the vessels afterwards unite into an aortic trunk for the whole body and even for the lungs. When the branchiae ' disappear, their arteries become obliterated, excepting two branch- es which unite to form the aorta, and which give each a small branch to the lung. The eggs are membranous, and are fecundat- 1 ed, during, or after deposition. The young, when excluded, have branchiae, and are destitute of feet. As they grow, the former are obliterated, and the latter develope themselves. Some species re- tain their branchiae during life. 59. Birds have an organization evidently disposed for flying. Their general form, the proportion of their parts, their abundant respiration, whence result their specific lightness and a great de- gree of muscular vigour, all unite to adapt them for this mode of motion. They have only two feet, their anterior members being alone destined for flying. The thorax and abdomen form a single great cavity, the vertebrae of which possess little mobility. The sternum is of very great extent, which is further increased by a plate that projects like a keel. The sternal part of the ribs is bony like their vertebral portion. In this part of the trunk every thing is so disposed as to give a firm support to the wings, and afford points of attachment to their muscles. The shoulders are formed by the fourchette, the coracoid bones, which are very large, and elongated and feeble scapulae. The wing is sustained by the humerus, the two bones of the fore-arm and the hand, which is state. It bears a row of elastic quills. The pelvis, which is very elongated, furnishes attachments to the muscles of the inferior ex- tremities, and its bones are sufficiently separated to leave a space in which the eggs are developed. The inferior extremities are formed of the femur, the tibia, and the fibula, which are joined to it by a spring articulation, keeping themselves extended without muscular effort. There are also muscles which go from the pelvis to the toes over the knee and heel, so that the weight of the body itself bends the toes. The tarsus and metatarsus are formed by a single bone terminated below by three pulleys. There arc gene-