OF THE HONES. 598. The growth of the bones takes place in an evident manner, by the successive addition of new bony substance around that which was first formed. The growth in. length takes place by the elongation of the body of the long bones at their extremities. For this purpose, the ends of (he bony cylinder are covered with bony filaments or villosities immersed in the not yet ossified extremity, hollow and vascular, which continually elongate, becoming more and more slender as the vessels ramify more, and as the ossification slackens. At the same time, the cartilaginous extremities, commencing at the centre, are gradually transformed into bones which constitute epiphyses, The growth in breadth takes place, in the flat bones, in the same manner, whether by the successive addition of bony substance in the edge of the bone, as in the bones of the skull, or by the os- seous formation, under a marginal epiphysis which covers its edge, as in the scapula and coxal bone. The growth in thickness takes place in all the bones in the same manner. The periosteum, which until this period is very vascular, secretes and deposits between its fibres, at the surface of the bone» osseous substance, at first mucous, then hard, which being thus successively added to the surface, increases the thickness of the bone. 599. The growth of the prominences of bones takes place in the same manner as that of the long bones furnished with epiphyses, that is to say, between the body of the bone and the base of the eminence ; as in the trochanters, &c. In others, it is at the sur- face itself that the growth takes place, precisely in the same man- ner as the growth in thickness of the bones. Most of the eminen- ces grow in this way. As to the hollowing of the external cavities which are not articular, it is in many places determined by pres- sures, which without really depressing the bone, nevertheless pro- duce a depression of it, by rendering its nutrition less active than Jn the surrounding parts. The articular eminences and cavities are moulded upon each Other. This is also the case with the cavities destined to lodge soft or fluid parts, and the medullary cavities of the bones. Their existence and form are greatly dependent upon those parts which they contain. Thus the conformation of the skull, and that of the vertebral canal depend greatly upon that of the nervous centre which they lodge. The lower part of the vertebral canal, when empty, is triangular, just as the cotyloid cavity becomes when the Jiead of the femur has been for a long time removed from it, both these parts being formed of three bony points. 600. Be this as it may, the termination of evident growth, in length and breadth, depends upon the uniting of the long bones with their terminal epiphyses, and of the broad bones with their marginal epiphyses, or with each other. The termination of the growth in thickness depends upon the cessation of the osseous for-