.334 OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The nervous influence is not confined to the organ or solid parts alone; the blood also experiences its effects.* 756. The functions of formation and sustenance, in other words, the nutritive and genital functions, are also all more or less de- pendent upon innervation. Digestion-]- is subject to innervation; and not the sensations and motions which take place at the entrance of the organs alone, but even the action of the stomach. It lias long been known that when the nerves of the stomach are cut, that organ loses the faculties of digesting and of impelling the food into the intestines. Nor is respiration less subject to the nervous influence. Section of the nerves of the lungs immediately causes asphyxia and death. The circulation, especially the action of the heart and capillary arteries, is in like manner subject to the same influence. Secretion is evidently so also. Direct experiments show that the section of the nerves of an organ suspends its secretion. Inhala- tion or absorption is equally modified by the nervous action. Nu- trition or organic formation, without being a direct result of the nervous power, is not yet subjected to its influence. Animal heat is still more evidently dependent upon it. The physiological ex- periments of Messrs. Brodie and Chossat have clearly established this influence. The chemical and physiological experiments of Messrs. Dulong and Despretz have demonstrated that this heat could not depend entirely upon respiration. So also in generation, the sensations and voluntary motions which accompany it, the motions of irritation, the phenomena of the ser cretion of the spermatic fluid and the formation of the ovula, those of the nutrition and growth of the fecundated egg, are all seen to be more or less directly subject to the nervous action. 757. Sympathy or the co-existence of two phenomena of forma- tion, irritation, sensation or volition, in different parts, and by the action of a single agent, the most extraordinary phenomenon of the organism, is also an effect of the nervous action. 758. What connexion exists among the different parts of the nervous system with reference to its functions ? Has it a single centre only, whether that centre be the spinal marrow, or the en- cephalon ? Or are there two centres, viz. a cerebral centre and a ganglionary centre? Or are there as many distinct centres as there are principal organs or great functions ? In the adult man, the nervous system forms a single system of which all the parts contribute to the action of the whole, or to in- nervation, but besides this each has its proper functions. Thus, the brain and cerebellum, besides their particular functions, increase the energy of the spinal marrow, and the latter increases that of the nerves. In the adult man, the encephalon, and still more pre- • G. A. Treviranus, Biologia. B. iv. p. GIG. Idem. VcrmiscJttc, §c. Schnficn, £c. B. i. p. 99. + A. Brunn. Experim. circa Ugat. nervorum—Vavasseur. Dc Vinfluence dii systcme HCrvcux sur la digestion ttomacale. These. Ptiris. 12 AoAt 1823.