OF THE GLANDS. 220 CHAPTER V. OF THE GLANDS. 478. The name Gland,* Glandida, a&jk, according to Nuck, is derived from the lymphatic ganglia or glands having been com- pared by the ancients to the acorn, which bears the same name. So many different objects have been comprised under the name of gland, that it becomes a matter of great difficulty to give a de- finition of it. Hippocrates had said, that the glands are formed of a parti- cular kind of flesh, granulated, spongy, not dense, of the colour of fat, of the consistence of wool, breaking under pressure, fur- nished with numerous veins, and when cut emitting whitish and serous blood. He comprehended a great number of parts under this name, and in particular the brain. This vague idea of the glands prevailed for a long time, to which there was afterwards added the character of a rounded form. There were then comprehended along with the glands and vascular ganglia, the conarium and the hypophysis of the brain, the syno- vial adipose bodies, and even the tongue. Another definition, founded on the texture, and into which there entered the idea of a mass of follicles or an aggregate of vessels with a particular membranous envelope, still comprehended many different parts, and supposed the exact knowledge of the intimate texture. It has also been attempted to define the glands by their func- tion, by saying that they are secreting organs. But by confound- ing nutrition and secretion, the greater number of the organs were included under the definition, or by distinguishing these functions from each other, while, at the same time, the intrinsic secretions were not separated from the extrinsic, the serous and synovial membranes were confounded with the glands. To distinguish the glands from every other part resembling them in form, in apparent texture, and even to a certain degree in functions, it is necessary to take particular notice of their con- nexions. Bichat and M. Chaussier have taken this consideration as a basis to the definition of the glands. Haase has also adopted it, but he has supposed the vascular ganglia to possess excretory ducts. The glands are organs of a rounded form, lobular, sur- • Wharton. /IdenograpJda. Lond. 1656. M. Malpighi, Dc Visccrum Structurd, in Op- Om. et de Struct. Glandul. conglob. &c. in Op. Posth. JLossius and Piclow. Dhq. d« Glaudulh in generc, Viteb. 1633. A. Nuck. Adcnographia curiosa, L. Bat. 1691. G. Mylius. Dc Giandulis. Lug. Bat. 1698. L. Terraneus, Dc Glrntd. nniversim, &C. Lug. Bat. 1729. Boerliaave and Ruysch. De Fabrica Glandular, &c. in Ruys- ehU. Op- Omti. A. L. dc Hugo. Comment, de GlandulU in generc, &c. Gotting. 1746. Til. de Boideu, Rechcrchet Anatom. *ur Its Glnidet, &c. Paris, 1751. G. A. Haase Dc Glandular ma difmUionc, Lips. 1801. Leonlmrdi, Op. Cit.