OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 131 equally apparent, in all parts of its extent. There occur at the aurface of the membrane infundibuliform, cellular or alveolar de- mressions. They exist at the maximum of their development in the eecond stomach of the ruminantia, which, for this reason, is called the •oney comb bag. They also exist, but of much smaller size and mi- nroscopic, in a great part of the alimentary passages, and especially in bae oesophagus, the stomach, and the large intestine of man, where aey have been perceived and pointed out by Fordyce and Hew- ion, and described and figured by Sir Everard Home. 265. The follicles or crypts,* differ from these alveolar depres- iions only in having a narrower orifice, a more or less prolonged eeck, and an inflated fundus lodged in the submucous tissue, in 'lihich they form projections. They are formed by the membrane .Dlilded upon itself, and strengthened at the exterior by dense cellu- itr tissue furnished with numerous small vessels. They are very esnerally distributed, although their number varies in the differ- int parts. They are in general very small, but their size also varies ireeatly. Some are simple and distinct; others open into a com- :ioon canal of which they are as it were branches ; others end in a ^UauaI,ILmnion an(j dilated orifice called a lacuna, of which kind is the Me at the base of the tongue, the lacunae of the urethra, rectum, others are aggregated or agminated, as the caruncula lachry- ilis, the arytenoid gland, the agminated glands of the ileum, &c.; tly, others are compound and furnished with multiple lacuna? or ified ducts, and greatly resemble glands, of which kind are the sils, the molar glands, the prostrate gland, Cowpers glands, &c. .266. The small eminences called papilla? and villosities, which are ceived at the free surface of the mucous membrane, appear to we for their object the enlargement of the surface, like the de- ssions of which we have just been speaking, and with which y are in inverse numerical relation ; but, in the one as in the aer of these dispositions, the texture and functions of the mem- ine are greatly modified. These eminences, which are called osities, in consequence of the comparison made by Fallopius of internal membrane of the intestines to velvet, and papillae, on ount of the resemblance which they are supposed to bear to a ;tton or nipple, do not differ essentially among themselves : they all more or less minute prominences of the membrane, most tthem hardly visible to the naked eye. "he largest among these eminences are called papillae. Such i those which fill the cavity of the teeth, and which are common, amed their pulp. Of this kind also are those smaller eminences ft* 1*1 E-1 tf lidch cover the surface of the tongue in its two anterior thirds, and iffe still smaller ones which are perceived on the glans of the iiis and clitoris, &c. These eminences belong to the corium of mucous membrane, which is in these places provided with a Peycr, Dc Glandulii Inteslinalium, AmBtel. 1G81. 'eni, Francof. 1T15. J. C. Brunner, Dc Glandulis