OF THE TEGUMENTARY MEMBltANES IN GENERAL. 123 i where continuous with itself, from the external skin to the bottom of the last ramifications of the excretory duct of the most deeply • seated gland. This membrane has consequently an immense I breadth. Its situation is everywhere external or superficial, in this sense that it is everywhere in contact with substances foreign i to the organization; but a part only is apparent at the exterior and i envelopes all the body, while the other concealed part invests at i the interior the alimentary canal, which passes through the trunk i in the direction of its length, from the mouth to the anus. The figure of the tegumentary membrane may thus be conceived as that of an envelope and of a canal which passes through it, united by continuity at the two extremities ; or as that of two canals, the i one wider and the other more narrow, the latter encased in the for- mer, both continuous with each other at the two ends, and in the interval of which all the rest of the body is lodged. Were we to employ a trivial comparison, the one which would answer best for representing this disposition would be that of a muff, having in fact two surfaces separated by a more or less thick layer of intermediate substances. 242. Besides the skin and the mucous membrane of the alimen- tary canal, which are continuous with each other at the two orifices of that canal, and are everywhere continuous with themselves, and which constitute the two principal parts of the tegumentary mem- brane, this membrane has a great number of appendages or pro- longations more or less extended and branched out into the sub- stance of the body. Such are; 1st, The genital and urinary mem- branes, which are prolonged into all the cavities of the organs of ge- neration, and urinary depuration ; 2dly, The pulmonary membrane, which lines all the divisions of the bronchi; 3dly, The membranes which line the excretory ducts of the glands, whether they end at the mucous membrane, or, like those of the mammary gland, ter- minate at the skin ; 4thly, those of the nasal cavities, their sinuses, the posterior nasal fossae, the auditory canals, the tympanum, the mastoidal sinus, and the surface of the eye. Of these prolongations, which are all mucous, excepting that of the external auditory canal, which is cutaneous, the greater part end at the mucous membrane, and are appendages or prolongations of it. The external skin, on the contrary, is much less complicat- ed by appendages of this kind. 243. The tegumentary membrane presents in its vast extent dif- ferences or varieties of appearance, texture and function, which might excite doubts as to its unity and continuity. The skin and the mucous membrane, compared with each other, seem very different at first sight; but in the animal series the dif- ference gradually disappears in the most simple animals. In the higher animals which inhabit the water, it is still in general not very distinct. In the human foetus, the difference, although real, is at first far from decided ; and even in the adult the skin is seen to become readily transformed into mucous membrane, and the latter into skin. When, for example, a part of the surface of the body