OF THE ARTICULATION'S. 281 i lation, which is very loose and mobile in childhood, becomes more and more firm in old age, at which period it sometimes ossi- fies. Sometimes the ossification is external to it, and only sur- rounds it more or less completely, as is especially observed at the fore part of the body of the vertebra-. It may be accidentally too loose or too close. It is not susceptible of a true luxation, but ra- ther of a displacement, a drawing asunder, which always supposes the laceration or destruction of the intervening cartilaginous liga- ment. After certain unconsolidated fractures, there are sometimes pro- duced articulations of this kind; that is to say, the fragments are united by the intervention of a flexible and tenacious substance, which permits them to move upon each other. This mode of acci- dental articulations occurs after fractures of the patella, the neck of the femur, the olecranon, and also sometimes after those of the body of the long bones. Amphiarthroses also sometimes form in the place of some diarthroses of which the synovial membrane has contracted flexible adhesions. 627. Diarthrosis is a kind of articulation in which the articular surfaces of the bones are in contact, and move upon each other. This kind of articulation exists among all the bones of the limbs, whether between each other, or between them and the trunk, be- tween the lower jaw and the skull, between the skull and vertebral column, between the articular processes of the vertebra?, between the ribs and vertebra1, and between the costal cartilages and the sternum. 628. The articular parts of the bones, in this kind of articula- tion, are broad surfaces, whose configuration is reciprocal. These surfaces are in general, the one convex, the other concave. The cohvex surfaces, or articular eminences, are sometimes rounded like a large segment of a sphere, in which case they are called heads. Others are rounded, but elongated in one direction, and contracted in another: these have been named condyles. The heads and condyles are sometimes supported by a narrow part, which is call- ed the neck. The articular depressions, or concave surfaces, bear the name of cotyloid cavities, when they have the form of a seg- ment of a sphere and are deep ; and that of glenoid cavities, when they are more superficial. Sometimes two condyles are brought near each other laterally, and leave between them a neck which en- ters into the articulation like themselves. This kind of surface is named a pully, trochlea: Lastly, many articular surfaces, which are nearly flat, presenting little convexity or concavity in their con- figuration, have received no particular name, but are designated, according to their extent, under the generic names of articular sur- faces or facettes. All these surfaces are covered with diarthrodial cartilages (554). These cartilages are themselves covered by synovial membranes (210), and moistened with synovia (216). There are, moreover, between certain of these surfaces, menisci or interarticular cartilagi- nous ligaments (531).