OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 134 this only proves that the free surface of the mucous membrane is covered by a substance which has a great similarity to epidermis, and is readily transformed into it. On referring to observation, and making use of dissection, decoction, or putrefaction, for sepa- rating the epithelium, we find it very distinct as far down as the oesophagus, and ending abruptly at the union of that canal with the stomach ; and in like manner we find it very distinct in the vagina, and suddenly ceasing on the lips of the orifice of the ute- rus. These interruptions, which have long been observed, have been erroneously adduced by some modern writers as proofs of the interruption of the mucous membrane itself. In other parts, aa the nassal fossae and the lower extremity of the alimentary canal, the diminution of appearance of the epithelium is gradual and in- sensible, so as to render it impossible to point out its limits. In the places where it is distinct, it becomes thinner as it sinks in the follicles, and disappears in them. In the places which arc desti- titte of a distinct epithelium, the free surface of the membrane is covered with a mucous varnish, which, since the time of Vesalius, and even of Rhazes, has been compared to the covering or enamel of vessels, and of which the resemblance to the epidermis, at least in respect to functions, was remarked by Glisson. 273. The cellular tissue which forms the corium of the mucous membrane, has more regularly an areolar disposition, like the tissue of the cutaneous dermis ; it being rather spongy or fungous. The blood vessels and lymphatics are abundant in it. Its nerves come in general from the great lymphatic nerve and the pneumo-gastrie. At all the natural apertures, the mucous membrane has nerves coming from the spinal marrow. 274. The colour of the mucous membrane varies from white to red, and, besides the intermediate shades, it also presents some other varieties of colouring. This colour is, for the greater part at least, owing to the blood which circulates in its substance, for asphyxia and syncope instantly colour brown the part of this membrane which are visible by their situation, or deprive it en- tirely of colour. Its consistence is in general soft and spongy. Its thickness varies greatly, and its tenacity is moderate. The mu- cous membrane readily alters by putrefaction, and the submucous tissue still more readily, for it is then very easily detached. It is not known if it can be converted into leather by the action of tannin. 275. It has a very highly developed power of formation. When it has been destroyed, it is readily reproduced, and with all the characters of the natural tissue. It is somewhat irritable, and possesses tonic contractility in a more decided degree than the cel- lular tissue. Its sensibility is obscure and vague in the greater part of its extent, even when inflamed it does not in general give rise to acute pains. It is very sensible at the natural orifices, and at the entrance of the alimentary and perspiratory passages it is the seat of a particular sensibility. 276. Its organic actions or functions are the following :