373 OF CIUUHOS1S, &C. exists under the form of masses. It has also hcen seen under the form of plates, and in that of the cyst. When in masses, the tissue is fawn-coloured, dull, flaccid, moist and compact, like the tissue of the surrenal capsules. It does not present distinct fibres. The masses vary from the size of a millet seed to that of a cherry stone. They sometimes exist in prodigious numbers. The largest appear scaly. This tissue softens under the form of greenish brown putrilage. Its effects, whether local, or general, are not of any importance. It occurs pretty frequently and in great abundance in the liver, which is then lessened in size, wrinkled and rough. It has also been seen in the kidney, the prostate gland, the epididymis, the ovary and the thyroid gland. 842. M. Laenncc has designated by the name of Sclerosis a tis- sue greatly resembling, or identical with, the compact white tissue, and which he found infiltrated in the subperitoneal cellular tissue of the lumbar region of a cancerous person. It differs from all the morbid tissues in the circumstance that it has never been seen sof- tened, but is placed along with them on account of its tendency to spread. 843. The same pathologist has designated by the name of Scaly Scirrhus, a tissue of a dull white colour, semitransparent, and fo- liated like the flesh of the cod, which he once saw contained in a cyst resembling mother of pearl, in a patient affected with cancer. VI. Or COMPOUND MORBID TISSUES. 844. Morbid tissues very frequently occur combined with each other; and their association is one of the greatest sources of diffi- culty in the study of pathological anatomy. •The composition sometimes takes place by simple juxta-position, and sometimes by intimate and mutual penetration. The most common combinations are the following : 1. Those of the fibrous, cartilaginous and osseous tissues in the cysts which contain vesicular worms. 2. The combination of earthy ossification and tubercle, especial- ly in the bronchic glands. 3. That of tubercle and cerebriform tissue, of frequent occur- rence in the liver and testicle. 4. That of scirrhus and earthy ossification, also not uncommon in the liver. 5. That of all the morbid tissues, with ossifications, with other analogous productions, with inflammation, hypertrophy, serous, sanguineous and purulent effusions, &c, forming the compound cancers of the stomach, mamma, &c.