2G8 OF THIS BON 133. As to the growth in length, Duhamcrs experiments also led him to think that this growth, which he compares to vegetation, takes place hy the extension of their parts. It is probably so in slow and insensible growth, but the rapid elongation which takes place before the epiphyses become united, evidently depends upon aja addition of bony substance to the end of the body of the bone, as is proved by the following experiment of Hunter s. The tibia is laid bare in a young hog, and perforated at the two extremities pf the ossified body, the interval between the two holes being care- fully measured. Some months after, when the growth has made, progress, the same distance is found to exist between the two bones, and all the elongation that has taken place has been beyond tug hole, at the extremities of the diaphysis. These experiments, which leave little to be desired with respect to the growth of the bones, do not by any means afford result,:; sq satisfactory respecting the habitual nutrition of the bones. To redden the bones of a young animal, it is sufficient to give it a few drams of madder, during a period of some days, while the same substance given in greater quantity, and during weeks or months, to an adult animal, hardly imparts any colouring to them. 603. After the growth in extent has ceased, the bones still un- dergo farther changes, the most remarkable of which is their de-, crease.* The medullary canal of the long bones continues to in- crease in diameter from the moment of their formation. So long as the growth in thickness continues, the walls of the canal being augmented at the exterior, preserve their thickness, and even in- crease in that direction. Duhamel made a very curious experiment on this subject, alT though he drew false inferences from it. Having laid bare and [surrounded with a metallic wire a long bone of a young animal which he killed some time after, he then found the wire covered over by the bone which had increased in thickness, and the canal having acquired the diameter of the metallic ring, he concluded from this circumstance that the bone had enlarged by cxpani sion, by the widening of its canal. This is not the case, however. The bone had increased at its exterior by addition, and diminish-; ed at the interior by abstraction, whence resulted the enlargement; of the canal. In fact, when the growth of the bone in thickness is accom, plished, the canal continuing to enlarge by internal absorption, its walls become thin in a singular degree, insomuch that, after having been thicker in the child than the diameter of the canal, and in the adult nearly as thick, they present in old age but a very small fraction of that diameter. The spongy cavities of the short bones, of the broad bones and of the extremities of the long bones, ge- nerally enlarge in the same manner, so that, by this diminution of the substance of the bones, the substance of the skeleton of aged persons is rendered much lighter than that of others. " Albihus. Annot, AcaJ^—F. Chaussard. Rcchcrchcs sur VQigan. des i~k>tt(ud.iK faiis, 1822,