Of THE ARTICULAR- CARTILAGES. 555. Tlie texture of these cartilages is at first sight as indistinct as that of the others, so that they resemble a layer of wax spread over the bone, but may be discovered by certain modes of pro- cedure. It is fibrous. Maceration of an articular part of a boner continued for six months, effects the destruction of the synovial membrane, the only membrane covering the cartilage which is des- titute of the fibrous perichondrium, and produces disunion of the fibres of which it is composed, which rise perpendicularly from the surface of the bone like the pile of velvet. If a cartilage thus disposed by maceration be dried, the fibres become smaller and thus separate from each other, becoming more distinct. Decoction, when not prolonged so as to dissolve the cartilage, produces at first the same effect as maceration. The action of fire also dis- closes the structure in the same manner. These cartilages have no vessels. Delicate injection and microscopic inspection show the capillary vessels terminating at their circumference and at their adherent surface, without ever penetrating into their sub- stance. These cartilages, which are compressible and elastic, deaden the effects of pressure and concussions. The smoothness of their sur- face facilitates the motion of the diarthrodial articulations. They become much thinner in old age. 556. In preternatural joints, no true cartilages are produced, but only desmo-chondroid tissue, a tissue which, in truth, greatly resembles that of the diarthrodial cartilages. In the natural diar- throdial articulations, the destruction of the cartilages is sometimes followed by their nearly perfect reproduction ; only the new carti- lage produced at the surface of the bone, being thinner, has a somewhat bluish appearance, which is owing to its semitranspar- ency. The edges of the old cartilage are free, and extend over the very thin contour of the new cartilage. In the joints of old persons affected with various other altera- tions, the diarthrodial cartilages are sometimes found converted in- to villous fibres, free and floating. When laid bare in amputation at the joints, if the wound unites by first intention, the cartilage and its synovial membrane do not unite, but remain free behind the cicatrix. If the wound remains open, if it inflames and sup- purates, the cartilage is seen at the end of some days to soften, and afterwards gradually to disappear from the circumference to the centre, in proportion as the granulations extend to the surface of the bone, and even before they reach it. Inflammation of the diarthrodial cartilages is in general of rare occurrence ; and, when it takes place, commonly terminates by ulceration or absorption. This ulceration of the diarthrodial cartilages is most commonly consequent to inflammation of the synovial membrane or bone, sometimes to that of the cartilage itself, but it also sometimes seems not to be preceded by any inflammation. Sometimes, be- fore ulcerating, the cartilage softens and assumes a fibrous appear- ance. This ulceration most commonly takes place in young sub-