OF THE COMMON ADIPOSE TISSUE. 85 uterus, in the spleen or liver, the palpebra?, the penis, the nymphac, are equally destitute of any. The quantity of fat which exists in the body varies greatly ; but there are parts which never contain any, even in the greatest obesity, and others in which the most complete wasting never makes it entirely disappear. In an adult man in ordinary condition, the fat forms about the twentieth part of the weight of the body. 158. The adipose tissue is generally of a yellowish-white colour, and of a soft consistence, varying, however, in the latter respect in the different regions of the body, and at different ages. 159. Whatever may be the external form of the adipose tissue, the masses which it represents divide into smaller masses, from the s size of a pea to that of a hazle nut, smaller in the head, and larger around the kidneys. These masses are immersed in the cellular : tissue. Their form varies. It is generally round, but in the me- (dian line elongated and ovoidal, one of the extremities being at- i tached to the skin, the other to the aponeurosis. They may by .dissection be reduced into lobules or grains, which on being exar- mined by the microscope appear themselves composed of an infi- nite number of small vesicles having a diameter of -g^th or ^nstn of an inch. The adipose tissue may therefore be considered as composed of agglomerated vesicles, united into grains, which are iin their turn aggregated to form masses. There results from these arrangements that the structure of this tissue is not areolar, but rather resembles that of the fruits of the family of Hesperidece, as the orange and citron, which in like manner contain membran- ous vesicles attached to dissepiments which separate them. The adipose vesicles, as well as the grains and masses which they form, are furnished with a small pedicel which is supplied to them by the vessels lodged in their intervals, and may be compared in this respect to grapes supported by their foot-stalk. These vesicles are so thin that it is impossible to distinguish their walls; but there are very certain proofs of their existence. In fact, if the fat were free, it would not form regular and distinct masses. Haller and several others have erroneously alleged this form to be inherent in fat, for that substance does not present globules, and of itself has no determinate figure. If some of these vesicles immersed in te- pid water be placed under the microscope, no oil is seen at the sur- face ; but on cutting them there immediately escape some drops which float upon the water. If it be added to these considerations that the fat being fluid in the living subject, as is proved by its flowing off' when the tissues are divided, it ought necessarily to be infiltrated like the serous fluid, if not in the state of health, at least in that of disease. Now, this does not happen, and all that has been said of the infiltration of the fat for explaining the confor- mation of the pendulous breasts of certain tribes, the projecting hips of others, the dorsal protuberances of some animals, and the voluminous tail of others, presents nothing but an association of contradictory facts and absurd reasonings. Roosc and Blumcn-