OF THE SYNOVIAL CAPSULES OF THE JOINTS. 115 apparent upon the very centre of the cartilage. The fungous de- generation which is peculiar to the synovial membrane is also ob- served upon the cartilage. Lastly, the continuity of the membrane is demonstrated by direct inspection. On cutting a cartilage obliquely, and then turning the slice back so as to break it across, the latter still holds by the synovial membrane, which covers it as well as the rest of the cartilage. When a bone is sawed, and the cartilage afterwards broken from its extremities, the connexion is still kept up in the two portions by the synovial membrane, which extends from the one to the others. In the rest of their extent, that is to say, at the edge of the arti- culation, the synovial membranes are attached to the articular mem- branes in an equally intimate manner, as is seen at the capsule of the shoulder joint. The adhesion is especially intimate at the middle, and becomes looser towards the extremities. In the in- terval between the ligaments, these membranes are attached to the cellular and adipose tissues. These tissues form very distinct pel- lets, as well as near the place where the synovial membrane leaves the ligaments to be reflected over the bones. The inner surface is smooth, polished, in contact with itself, lubrified by the synovia, and furnished with villosities and fringed prolongations. 214. The synovial membranes are thin, soft, semitransparent, whitish, extensile in a certain degree, although less so than the serous membranes of the viscera, and retractile, as is shown by their drop- sy and their returning upon themselves after the evacuation of the fluid which then accumulates in them. Their rupture in luxations depends less upon their defect of extensibility, than upon the strictness of their connexions and the less extent of their folds. 215. These membranes are furnished with adipose pellets, placed at their exterior or in their substance itself, and improperly desig- nated by the name of Synovial Glands of Havers. These rounded masses, which were first noticed by Vesalius and Etienne, and have been described by Cowper and especially by CI. Havers,* were considered by all physiologists down to Monro, as the secreting organs of the synovia.-f- Their size varies according to the quantity of fat which they contain. They always contain more or less of that fluid, and are almost entirely formed of adipose tissue. The fringes exist at the interior of the membrane, at the place where these bodies exist at the exterior. The points at which these dif- ferent objects are met with are those in which the membrane pre- sents the greatest quantity of vessels. The fringes contain in their substance cellular tissue, fat, and blood vessels. The other parts of the synovial membranes receive only serous vessels. The lym- phatics are apparent only in some of these membranes. It were useless to recur anew to Mascagni's hypothesis, which that author " De Oisibus, Sermn iv. Cap. i. J Sue Pitschol. De Axungia Articulor. Lips. 1740. Ilaasc, Do Uitgulne Arlku. lur't, cjusqiie vitiis. Lips. 17 71.