OF THE VIVIPAROUS VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. ' 41 vessels called placenta:, which establish between it and its parent a communication by which it receives its nourishment and proba- bbly oxygen also. When the fetuses have acquired the necessary development, they are expelled along with their lacerated envelopes. IThe mamma-, which are secreting glands, produce milk for nourish- ing the young so long as they require it. It is to this kind of organization, which still presents certain varieties, that man belongs. 61. The mammifera thus present some organs which are pecu- liar to them, of which kind are the hairs upon their skin and the mammae. In all the other circumstances of their organization, they differ from the other vertebrate animals only in having cer- tain organs, for example the ear, the brain, &c. more developed, or in possessing different combinations of the organs of circulation, r respiration, and motion. The blood of the mammifera differs from that of the ovipara in r respect to the form of the coloured particles, they being circular or 1 lenticular in the mammifera, whereas in the ovipara they are [ generally oval or compressed ovoidal. The hairs of the mammifera do not differ essentially from other ! horny appendages of the skin. They are, like all the organs of this kind, produced by an excretion at the surface of that I membrane. The mammae are also entirely of the same nature as the other | glandular secreting organs. 62. The mammifera still present considerable variations in their organization, whether in the organs of touch, which are so : much the more perfect the more numerous and mobile the toes are, and the less they are enveloped by the nails; or in the organs of manducation, and consequently in the rest of the digestive organs ; or lastly, in the organs of generation. The different com- binations of these variations, which induce many others in all the functions, and even in the intellect, have given rise to the division • of this class into several orders, among which is that of the bimana, formed of a single genus, man. 63. Man is distinguished from the other mammifera by some not very important differences in the organs of the vegetative functions, by some others of a more decided character in the organs of the animal functions, but more especially by his superior intellect. The intellect which constitutes man is especially characterized by consciousness, reason, a free will, the moral sentiment, and the sentiment of a divine cause. Man, moreover, of all animals has the hemispheres of the cere- brum and cerebellum most developed and most abundantly furnished with circumvolutions. This great size of the hemis- pheres becomes still more apparent when it is compared with the spinal marrow, the nerves, the organs of sense, and the muscles. His cerebral functions are greatly developed, and very distinct from instinct. He is possessed of speech, and lives in society.