OF PARASITIC ANIMALS. 383 The Spiroptera hominis is another doubtful species, observed by Messrs. Barnctt and Lawrence, having come from the urinary bladder of a woman. M. H. Cloquet has recently described, under the name of Op/iiostama ponterii, a worm that was voided by a man while vo- miting, and observed by M. Pontier. Many other worms have been indicated as inhabiting the human body, which occur only in animals. Others are merely larvae, or other objects more or less resembling worms, which occur fortui- tously among excreted matters, or have been frequently placed there in order to deceive. ARTICLE II. OF PARASITIC ANIMALS. 860. Parasitic animals are still much more foreign to the organ- ization than the entozoaria. Some of them, however, are insects originating, living, and re- producing at the surface, and in the substance of the skin. Such are the Pediculus hamanus corporis, P. h. capitis, P. h. pubis, Pulex irritans, P. penetrans, and the Acarus scabiei or Sar- coptes. Other insects are deposited beneath the skin and in the mucous cavities, in the state of eggs, are developed there in the state of larvae, and afterwards make their exit. Such is the oestrus, so common in the horse, the ox and the sheep, and which has also been found under the skin of man and in the sinuses of his face. Larvae of the genus Musca and some others are also sometimes developed in the auricular canal of children neglected as to personal cleanliness, at the surface of ulcers, &c. It must not be forgotten that many cases of excreted larvae are to be referred to frauds or to fortuitous circumstances. 861. Certain other animals penetrate, in the adult state, into the mucous cavities of the body, remain there a longer or shorter time, and induce various alterations in them. Of this kind we may mention leeches, Hirudo medicinalis, and H. Alpina. The Gordius or hairworm is probably another. It has been thought that the common earthworm could penetrate into the body, but this is not the case. The Furia infernalis of Linnaeus ap- pears to be an imaginary worm. Lastly some insects only injure the external surface of the body mechanically, or deposit a poison in it, and are altogether foreign to the organization.