358 OF TUB GANGLIA AND SYMPATHETIC NEIIVE. unite together all the cords which are attached to them. Whence results the irregular figure and internal complication of the lateral and median sympathetic ganglia, which are placed at the middle of many nervous cords, and the regular ovoidal form, as well as the simply longitudinal direction of the filaments of the spinal ganglia. 803. Bichat made some chemical trials on the ganglia, which ap- prised him, that there is nothing common between their substance and that of the brain. Some anatomists, however, having conti- nued to confound with the ganglia the bulgings of the central ner- vous mass, composed of white substance and grey substance, M. Wutzer undertook a series of comparative chemical experiments on the ganglia, and on mixtures of white and grey substance of the cerebrum and cerebellum. The results of these experiments are : That they differ essentially ; that the ganglia differ from the nerves in having a larger proportion of gelatine, and still more from the brain in an excess of gelatine, in a larger quan- tity of albumen, and in a less proportion of fat. M. Lassaigne,* has analysed the guttural ganglia of the horse, and has found them composed: 1st, of fibrine for the greater part, 2dly, concrete albu- men in small quantity, 3dly, soluble albumen, 4thly, traces of fat matter, 5thly, phosphate and carbonate of lime. M. Lobstein has observed that, although they resist putrefaction more than the nerves, they become readily converted into fat by immersion in water. 804. The ganglia of the first kind are those which are met with in the course of the nerves of the spinal marrow, and not far from their origin. There are on each side thirty, which are named spi- nal ; one upon the trigeminal nerve, which is called the ganglion of Gasser, one or two upon the nervus vagus, and one upon the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The spinal ganglia, which were first ob- served by Volcher-Coiter, which are thirty on each side, have an oval or amygdaloidal form. They belong to the posterior root only of the spinal nerves, the anterior being united to the ganglion only by loose cellular tissue. Haase was the first who made this obser- vation, which has since been confirmed by Prochaska and Scarpa. The anatomists who preceded them thought, that the two roots of the nerve contributed to the formation of the ganglion. The membrane of the spinal ganglia, which is supplied by the dura mater, appears firmer, denser, and more solid than that of the other ganglia. The ganglion itself is so closely enveloped by it as to appear very hard. The pulpy substance envelopes the medul- lary filaments more loosely than in the others, and is more distinct and more easily separable. The medullary fasciculi which enter by the posterior or inner ex- tremity of the ganglion, divide into three, four, or five white fila- ments. They first separate from each other, and then approach •Lassaigne, in Journal dc Ihysiotogie, VoLi