M variable. OF THE FIBROUS CAPSULES OF SOME ORGANS. 237 .-elopes the cartilages, differs from the periosteum only in being in»ch less vascular. It has the same uses, with respect to the car- tilages, as the periosteum has with respect to the bones, and, uoreover, gives to those which are thin and flexible, a resistance do rupture, and a tenacity which they do not of themselves pos- ss. IV. Of THE FIBROUS ENVELOPES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. tea 'toenvelopetbebones. ^ »od» -to ibeWf «f- 52i. The nerves have a proper envelope, the neurilema, which is ■!>f the same nature as the ligamentous tissue. Around the spinal rnarrow, this envelope loses the solidity of the ligamentous tissue, ot und around the brain, where the pia-mater is its continuation, it jecomes purely cellular and vascular. The neurilema, which is ""Wow sauch less vascular than the pia mater, is still a very vascular part 1,1 ^ Nj itf the ligamentous system. 525. The dura mater or meninx, which is vascular like the pe- riosteum, differs from that common membrane of the bones, in be- ing lined by the arachnoid membrane, which converts it into a fibro- cerous membrane, inasmuch as it forms a coat or capsule to the rrain and spinal marrow, contains sinuses or venous canals in its ubstance, within the skull, the only place where it also serves as a »r the lasertioii of ligjifientf weriostcum, and forms prolongations or septa between the divisions. >tf the encephalon. < tan attributed to it, but short Iwnes is sees to com« i and consequently at a dis« re also knatffi'hted to iV in cl As to the part »jiic. ' re/ uccroas, \t 'Ui fee WienreroW OF THE COMPOUND FIBROUS MEMBRANES.. 526. The pericardium and the perididymi or vaginal coats are, t ^ y ak'e the dura mater, fibro-serous membranes resulting from the in- ornate union of a ligamentous membrane with the external or pa- 1 /'y.V' '"[^jfjgji'ftietal lamina of a serous membrane. In the nasal fosste and their sinuses, in the cavity of the tympa- tiuum, and in the mastoidal sinuses, at the arch of the palate, and in ; ;ome other places, the periosteum is immediately covered by a mucous membrane which is intimately united to it,, thus constitut- ing a fibro-rnucous membrane. These compound membranes resemble, in then: texture, func- tions, and alterations, the two kinds of tissue of which they are i'brnied. •ed afief ex» tiespN «, and H\ I again aHiiit isreprodu- ation jometimes [atoi of which t» .brace VI. OF THE FIBROUS CAPSULES OF SOME ORGANS. 527- Lastly, the eye is contained in a capsular membrane called sclerotica and cornea; the testicle in one which is named albugin- na ; both remarkable for their thickness and solidity. The ovaries, thhe kidneys, the liver, and some other parts, have envelopes of the same kind, but not nearly so thick or solid. Most of these cap- sules, in fact all of them excepting the sclerotica, have fibrous in- tcernal prolongations which extend into the tissue of the organ.