OF ANIMALS. 13 19. In many of the lower animals, the nutritious juice, absorbed by the walls of the intestine, which is simple or prolonged into the tbody by ramified appendages, is carried immediately by the areolar substance into all parts of the body. Such is the case with all the rradiated animals, and the immense class of insecta. In all the lat- ter, in fact, there are no vessels, and the nutritious fluid passes from tthe intestine by imbibition into all parts of the body.* There is on- I ly a dorsal vessel, which seems the rudiment of a heart, but there are no branches for circulation. In the higher animals, the nutritious fluid, absorbed by the walls i of the intestine, circulates in closed vessels, whose ultimate ramifi- cations alone allow the molecules by which the body is to be nourish- ed to escape into its substance. The vessels which proceed from i the centre of the circulation into all the other parts, are called ar- l teries. Those which return from all the parts of the body to the i centre, are called veins. At the point where these vessels meet, there exists in many animals a muscular organ, the heart, which by its contractions assists the motion of the fluid, and which, as well as the general mass of vessels, exhibits various degrees of complica- tion. The first rudiments of vessels are observed in some intestinal worms, and the first rudiment of the heart occurs in the insecta. In the annelides, the only invertebrate animals that have red blood, there are arteries and veins for circulation, but the heart is merely in embryo. In the arachnides, which are furnished with tracheae, the organs of circulation are not more advanced than in the insecta ; but in the other arachnides, or those furnished with lungs, there is a heart or great dorsal vessel, which has branches on each side. The Crustacea have a more distinct heart. In some of them, it is elongated into a large fibrous vessel, which prevails along the whole of the tail, giving off branches on both sides, and which still resembles the dorsal vessel of insects ; but in other Crustacea, there is a dorsal ventricle, together with a large ventral vessel, and true circulatory vessels. In the mollusca, there is a heart having vari- ous degrees of complication, together with a double system of ar- teries and veins. The blood is white or bluish. Lastly, in the vertebrate animals, besides the arteries, veins, and heart, there is a separate system of lymphatic and chyliferous vessels which carry the nutritious fluid from the intestines into the veins. The simplest kind of heart consists at least of a ventricle which impels the blood into the arteries, and frequently of an auricle or venous sinus at the place where the veins enter the heart. It is • The terra imbibition was probably first used by Baron Cuvier in his great wosk on Comparative Anatomy, who, observing, as had been demonstrated by Kwammer- dam, Lyonnet and others, that insects have, properly speaking, neither veins, arteries, nor absorbents, supposed, with a great show of probability, %at the nu- tritive fluids, when prepared, must filtrate through the parietes of the intestinal canal into the general mass of the body. The recent discoveries of Cams, as to the exist- ence of vessels in the larva; of certain insects, even should they be ultimately fully confirmed, do not. affect Baron Cuvier's views as to the mode of absorption and nu- trition in the adult or perfect insect. 11. K. 5