OF THE SKIN IN GENERAL. 140 Filtering paper, in like manner, exhibits no pores under the micro- scope when it is moistened, but they are easily seen in it when dry. 308. As the cutaneous absorption and perspiration cannot de- pend upon the physical properties of the epidermis, it has been at- tempted to find their explanation in its chemical properties. The epidermis when dried diminishes in bulk, becomes firmer and more elastic, and assumes a somewhat yellowish tint. When macerated in cold water, on the contrary, it swells a little, and becomes soft, less elastic, whiter and more opaque. This substance, however, imbibes very slowly; it requires a pretty long immersion of the hands and feet in water, before the epidermis has absorbed enough of fluid to become white and opaque, and yet the epidermis of these regions appears to imbibe more easily than that of the other parts of the body. It is to this difficult permeability of the epidermis that we must attribute the difficulty with which the fluid of the ampullae escapes during life, and the slowness with which the skin dries in the dead body, even in the driest atmospheres, provided the epidermis remains untouched. It resists putrefaction long, and has been found untouched in graves at the end of more than fifty years. Boiling water renders the epidermis white and opaque, and deprives it of elasticity much quicker than cold water. Continued boiling removes from it a little gelatin, which appears to be fur- nished by its adherent surface. The residuum does not differ per- ceptibly from the epidermis in its entire state. When exposed to the heat of the fire it burns like a plate of horn, and emits a simi- lar smell. The pure fixed alkalies dissolve it completely into a saponaceous substance. Nitric acid almost immediately renders it yellow, thickens and softens it, renders it opaque in aboutii quar- ter of an hour, and in twenty-four hours reduces it to a yellowish pulp. If ammonia be applied upon the epidermis .after being ren- dered yellow by nitric acid, it assumes a, deep orange colour. Now, Hatchett has shown that the same effects are produced in coagu- lated albumen. The epidermis appears to consist of a layer of albuminous mucous, coagulated and dried. 309- The epidermis is possessed of neither irritability nor sen- sibility, but of all the parts of the body it is that which is endowed with the most active power of formation. It results from the con- cretion of a fluid exuded at the surface of the skin, continually re- newed, and never absorbed again, but worn down at the external surface in proportion as it is produced at the internal. 310. Numerous opinions have been entertained respecting the formation of the epidermis. The oldest is that which considers it as produced by the desiccation of a fluid suppUed by the surface of the dermis. Others, with Leuwenhoeck, have seen in it only the expansion of the vessels of the skin. Others, as Ruysch, have re- garded it as originating from the expansion and desiccation of the papillae. Heister attributed its formation to these two causes united; Morgagni, to the callification or hardening of the surface of the skin by the pressure of the water of the amnios at first, and