07 THE MEDULLARY TISSUE. <)3 hone, and forms a distinct canal, the tenuity of which is such that it is almost impossible to observe it without using this means. Its t tissue can be compared to nothing but a spider's web. This mem- bbrane lines the internal canal of the bone, and seems to be continu- ous at its two extremities with the marrow which fills them. It - sends prolongations outwards into the compact substance, and fur- nishes internally a multitude of similar prolongations, which in ge- neral resemble the filaments and prolongations of which the cellular membrane is composed. These prolongations are supported by the filaments and laminae of the reticular substance in the place where that substance exists. 173. The composition of the medullary membrane is principally owing to the vessels which are ramified at the interior of the canal, .1 and which are sustained by an extremely soft and scarcely visible c cellular tissue. This membrane greatly resembles in this respect t the pia mater or the omentum, and like these membranes seems to 1 be formed only by the cellular tissue belonging to the sheath of the \ vessels. An artery and a vein penetrate into the medullary canal, and divide these immediately after their entrance into two branches, t the ramifications of which extend to the two extremities of the I bone, and communicate with the numerous and large vessels of these extremities. The lymphatic vessels have not yet been traced 1 to the entrance of the medullary canal. Successful injections, on 1 the other hand, disclose a multitude of coloured filaments in the 1 canal of the long bones. The nerves of this cana-1, whose exist- 1 ence has been denied, are however not difficult to be traeed. Soem- i mering, it is true, thinks that these nerves are destined for the ar- 1 tery only. These nerves have been particularly observed by Wris- lberg and Klint. The medullary tissue is1 therefore essentially 'Composed: 1st,, of an arterial and venous network, and probably : also of a network of lymphatic vessels ; 2dly, of a nervous plexus, • whether destined for the artery, or for the other parts at the same time; 3dly, of the cellular sheath proper to these parts, which fur- ! nishes fibres, forming by their aggregate asd kind of imperfect i fringed membrane. There must be added to this vesicles which are very apparent, but only in fresh subjects, and which become less perceptible in others, because the marrow very quickly becomes fluid. These vesicles are entirely similar to those of the o-eneral 1 cellular tissue ; they have the same size, and the same connexions with the blood-vessels to which they appear appended. Grutzma- cher thinks that the texture of the marrow and that of the fat hi general, is areolar like the common cellular tissue, and not vesi- cular. The cellular extremities of the long bones contain a great number of vessels; but their membrane is less distinct than that of the middle of these same bones. There appear to be vesicles in it similar to those of the medullary membrane. The porosities of the compact substance appear equally to contain vesicles. 174. The fat of the bones takes the names of marrow in the me- dullary canal, of medullary juice in the spongy substance, and of