OF THE BONES. 277 *1,11 remains '^aceauil, fV^kthe ower the bones of the skull , 1 which is seldom by • le separated bony oper-1 The phenomena of re- re ski bones, ate places, in young ■es, and the parts thus i callus. Chronic in- lso somettmes, inchil- inds of separations «e ofthe^J ***.LJb the if* on some points, many obscurities to be cleared up, which, perhaps, depend more than is imagined upon vague comparisons which have been made between the alterations of the bones and those of the soft parts in general, without specifying any tissue in particular. It is a point of anatomy and pathology which is highly worthy of attention. 618. Original vices of conformation * are rare in the long bones ; less so in the short bones ; frequent in the broad bones ; rare in the ; bones of the limbs ; more frequent in those of the trunk, especially i in the sternum and ribs ; still more so in the bones of the head; . and more so in those of the arch than in those of the base. The most common variations are observed in the junctions of i the bones, then in their figure, then in the form of their holes, i and, lastly, in their apophyses. Most of these vices of conformation, like those of all the parts, sappear to depend upon a defect of formation. Some of them, fhowever, seem to depend upon an excess of formation. They are (of rare occurrence in the bones and in the parts of bones which tare first ossified, and, on the contrary, more common in the parts i which form last. 619- The bones are sometimes consecutively altered so as to be i increased or diminished in size. Besides the spina ventosa and os- teosteatoma, already mentioned, and which are merely a dilatation i of the bones; the exostoses, whether external or internal, which ; are only the periostosis and the spina ventosa ossified; the bones ;are also sometimes the seat of a hypertrophy. The bone is then l tumefied, and there is an interstitial deposition which keeps up or iincreases their original density. In all cases there is an augmenta- tion of weight. At other times the swelling results simply from (the rarefaction of the compact substance. The bone, which is less (dense, and more voluminous, has not then sensibly increased in i weight. I have in my possession a very fine example of this kind i of alteration, symmetrically occupying the two parietal prominen- cces in a skull of a young subject: the bone, which is greatly rare- tfied, is extremely vascular. These two kinds of tumefaction, when ithey affect the long bones, sometimes determine the contraction or <di sappearance of the medullary canal. This case has been de- sscribed under the name of enostosis.f I presented to the Faculty i of Medicine a skeleton of which almost all the bones present this i alteration. 620. Atrophy of the bones gives rise prematurely to changes si- imilar to their diminution in old age. In the Museum of the Faculty of Paris, there are long bones of • Van Doeveren, Observ. Osteol. varios naturcc lusus in oisibus. hum. corp. exhibent ; iin Obi. Acad. Specim. Lugd. Bat. 1765 Sandifort, De Osiibus dire,mo moilo a soli- Iti amformationc abludcntibus, in Observ. Anat. Pathol., Lib. iii. and iv. Lugd. Bat. 1177T-81—Rosenmuller, De Ossium variciatibus. Lips. 1804. + Lobstein, Rapport tur les travaux executes a Vamphith. d'Aaat. do Strasbourg, 11805.