OV THE BONUS. tion. Before the commencement of ossification, no cartilages are observed in them. It is the same also with them at the commence- ment of ossification ; there then being observed only a mucilagin- ous substance between the osseous cylinders. These osseous cy- linders are at first thick and short, whence there results that they may elongate greatly before growing thick. They correspond to the point at which the principal medullary artery is afterwards per- ceived. At the commencement of the third month, there are per- ceived cartilaginous extremities at the end of these elongated bony cylinders. Do these issue by vegetation from the interior of the canal ? These cartilaginous extremities have the same conformation as the extremities are to have at a later period; they ossify, as has been said, in treating of ossification in general. Most of them only ossify at the centre, and then form epiphyses, which remain a great- er or less time distinct at the ends of the bones. In some of them ossification goes on from the commencement, by the extension of the body of the bone, in the centre of their cartilaginous mass- 594-. The broad bones of the skull begin to ossify between the sixtieth and seventieth days. The pericranium and dura mater are then very vascular. There exists between these two membranes a mucous substance which is itself very vascular. The first bony points appear in the places which are most full of blood vessels, under the form of isolated grains, afterwards disseminated and collected into net-works. They then form a lamina thin at the middle, and fui> nished with radiating bony fibres at the circumference. The sur- faces of the bone are covered, and the intervals between the radiat- ing fibres arc filled up, by a reddish and very vascular mucilagin-r ous substance. The pericranium and dura mater are still very red and vascular at that period. 595. The short or thick bones ossify in the same manner as the extremities of the long bones. They arc preceded in their forma- tion by cartilages which have the form, and ultimately the volume of the bones which are to replace them. These cartilages are at first homogeneous and full, and afterwards present the successive changes already described: cavities, vascular membraneous canals, filled with viscous fluid, and bony points which extend from the centre to the circumference. The patella and sesamoid bones form in a tissue which is at first fibrous, then cartilaginous, and in the same manner as the short bones. The mixed bones, are intermediate in their formation, as they are in their external figure, and internal conformation, between the bones of the two different classes. 596. Many bones form by several distinct points of ossifica- tion. Several median bones, whether broad or thick, form by two la- teral parts, which afterwards unite in the median line. Of this kind are the arches of the vertebne, the frontal bone, the body of the sphenoid bone, the squamous portion of the occipital bone, thp