119 OF THE SPLANCHNIC SEROUS MEMBRANES. 227. These differences are of sufficient importance to arrest our attention here: there result from them, for example, that when the uterus, bladder, stomach or intestine increase in size, the am- bient peritoneal bridles and folds, are stretched out and applied close to the organs ; and that, when the organs resume their ori- ginal size, the membrane separates from them. This is owing to the looseness of the subserous cellular tissue towards the adherent edge of their folds. When a hernia takes place in the groin and enlarges, it is for the greater part through the displacement and sliding of the serous membrane, favoured by the laxity of the ad- hesions, that the sac enlarges. When, on the contrary, an um- bilical hernia increases in size, it is by distension and attenuation that the sac enlarges, the peritoneum adhering closely around the umbilicus. Bichat has perhaps a little exaggerated the influence which the looseness of the adhesions of the serous membranes may have upon the isolation of their diseases, and of those of the subjacent parts. 228. The physical properties of these membranes are those which we have exposed when speaking of the serous system in general. They are thin, but the tenuity is not the same in all, in all parts of the same membrane, or in all individuals. They are soft and semi-transparent; their extensibility is greater than that of the synovial membranes; their tenacity is also considerable, and superior to that of the cellular tissue, and they possess some degree of elasticity. When these membranes are distended be- yond a certain degree, they fret or lacerate ; the lacerations occupy the free surface, the rest of the membrane offering a greater re- sistance to force, or yielding more to distension. 229. They all consist of a single lamina, which is denser and closer on the free surface, and of looser texture on the other, where it becomes floculent, and is confounded with the common cellular tissue. Until the period when Douglas gave a correct description of the peritoneum, that membrane and those of the same kind were considered as consisting of two laminse, and containing the viscera in the separation of their laminae. This erroneous opinion he refuted, and it was in vain tried to be re-established by Vacca and others. The alleged outer lamina is nothing else than the subserous cellular tissue so well described by Douglas. They con- sist essentially of a layer of cellular tissue extremely condensed, and becoming more and more distinct from the cellular tissue, from the adhering surface, where it is continuous with that tissue, to the free surface, where it differs greatly from it. Fibres or small interlaced fasciculi are not so distinctly seen in it as in the syno- vial membranes. The floating appendages of these membranes also contain free cellular tissue, and frequently adipose tissue. They are much more vascular than the other serous or synovial membranes. They contain an immense quantity of white or serous vessels, which become apparent by injection, congestion and in- flammation, and some very small red vessels which belong to their