333 OF THE NERVOUS SYSTOI. tat ilk cts thp r Cl —".1431 !a ""ore of penetrate into ^ nbL Lastly, they pe- bey are much smaller W ive be ID till iq ana M. Viu(|uclia vhite (it ^< Mi; pb* fiUouasthebram. in-: '" J ft ibhose who confine it to sensation and volition, holds in subjection to iit, in a more or less direct manner, all the phenomena of'lit'e. Mo- ildern physiologists, in establishing this pre-eminence of the nervous ssystem, have even succeeded in establishing some of the laws of innervation, which they have elicited from the observations of com- parative anatomy and physiology, those of cmbryogenesis, and from [.physiological and pathological observations. In general, the ner- wous system has more influence on the rest of the organism, the rhigher the animal is in the series and the more developed that ssystem is in it. In the human species, the nervous system has rmore influence upon the functions, the more remote the individual iis from the foetal state and the more developed that system is in fchim. The influence of innervation over another function is so nmuch the more decided, the more that function recedes from the !object of the vegetative functions. The influence of the nervous ssystem upon the rest of the system is so much the greater and the rmore necessary the more developed the centre is, the more volu- minous in proportion to the rest of the system, and especially the rmore the different parts of the central mass are brought together itowards a single point. It is in this latter respect especially that ;the nervous system of man differs from that of animals. 755. The highest mental operations exercise themselves upon the rresults, and are manifested through the medium of nervous action, lit is therefore true that man is an intellect served by oryans. The actions of combination, intermediate between sensation and wolition, which constitute an appearance of intellect, or the im- rproved instinct of the vertebrate animals, also belongs to innerva- ttion. The most limited instinct, which, in all animals, even the most imperfect, necessarily connect certain motions with certain sensa- itions, is also a nervous action. Sensation and volition, whatever may be the intermediate phe- nomena, are also actions of the same class. The phenomena of irritation, that is to say, unfelt irritation and involuntary motion, are themselves more or less dependent upon tthe nervous action. In the intestinal canal, the heart, &c. im- [pressions are not felt, and muscular contraction is not willed, but ceven here the nervous system intervenes ; for if, in the regular 1 order the impression does not go beyond the ganglia, and if the imuscular contraction is the necessary result of it, this being the cha- racter of irritability, in certain cases of extraordinary impression ■sensation results from it; and, in like manner, when the will is (disturbed by passions, the internal muscular motions are felt, lln the vessels, and particularly in the minute arteries, the net* ivous action is very evident. In the cellular tissue, impression aand contraction, being closely connected, and designated by the cgeneral name of tonicity, appear to have little dependence upon the nervous system, although they arc not free of its influence, 7