G!:v placement, 'g the stateofreku. J Ic^» sinuosities, ■Wj perceived by ly examined by ilM. ^Jigap are always iiraniits of toe angles, h mil otheiiwiig transverse ramifica- re. ;s, & coiaunual fibril- ome of the fibres con- Is to this cause that •hen the linger is f iat which is perceived tan**;* ^ not been observed, in the ext^nal us j 0** OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GICNKUAL. 299 ppeaking fast, in that of playing on stringed instruments, &c. This welocity, in some cases, may be carried to less than a third. The tibrce of the muscles in a state of action is enormous, and is some- times sufficient to break the tendons or bones, parts of the body which so powerfully resist rupture. It is always proportional to the number of the muscular fibres, each of them having its proper t'force, which is a fraction of the total force. The elasticity of the rmuscles when contracted is especially manifest in the production of tthe voice. 678. The extent of contraction is difficult to be determined. It lhas been attempted to determine it, according to hypothetical ideas rrespecting the form of the primary fibres, and it has then been es- timated at a third of the length of the fibre. Direct observation -shows that the shortening of the contracted fibre, in the external 1 muscles, is a fourth of its length. MM. Prevost and Dumas have aarrived at the same result, by measuring the angles which form (during contraction. Be this as it may, the extent of the contrac- tion is in fact proportional to the length of the muscular fibres. ^When nothing opposes itself to the contraction of a muscle, it may jproduce a very great degree of shortening, of which examples are -seen in cases cf fractures and of loss of substance of the bones of tthe limbs. 679. The conditions of muscular action are the life of the muscle ;and its communication with the circulating and nervous centres, iits state of integrity, and the action of a stimulant. In order that muscular action may take place, it is necessary ithat the muscle participate in the circulation. If the principal : arteries or veins of a part of the body be tied, muscular action is i greatly weakened in it. The muscles, in order to act, must also 1 communicate by the nerves with the nervous centre. The inter- ruption of this communication stops the muscular action more or less suddenly. It always arrests, and that instantly, the influence 1 of the nervous centre ; but the muscle remains possessed of irrita- 1 bility through causes which act upon it or upon the nerve to which it still holds. 680. The muscle must be in its entire state. Contusion of the muscles, inflammation of their cellular sheaths, the accumulation of fat in the interstices of the fasciculi, &c. are so many circum- stances which more or less oppose muscular action. The extreme distention of the muscular fibres is sufficient to prevent their ac- tion. The same remark does not altogether apply to their con- traction. An extreme degree of heat or cold, the direct applica- tion of opium to the muscles, and various other substances, dimi- nish muscular irritability in general, although they exercise little influence upon galvanic susceptibility. 681. Lastly, in order that the muscle may enter into action, it must be excited by a stimulant. The stimulants of muscular ac- tion are : 1st, Volition, or the action of the will: it acts upon the muscles through the medium of the nerves, but it is a stimulant for certain muscles only, which for this reason arc called voluntary