OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 3 Mi roots unite in the intervertebral foramina, where the posterior pre- sents an enlargement or ganglion, to which the anterior is simply attached. The anterior root does not contribute to the formation of this ganglion, as it is said to do in most anatomical works, al- though this circumstance was long ago pointed out by Haase, Monro, and Scarpa, to the latter of whom the discovery has even been attributed; only Dr. Gall remarks with truth, that at the neck the anterior roots of the spinal nerves are soft, pulpy, and reddish, which may have deceived anatomists in examining that region. In the skull the roots of the nerves are not so distinct. At the place where the nerves come off from the me- dulla oblongata, the neurilcma deserts them or becomes softened, and is confounded with the pia mater, and the medullary substance alone is continuous with that of the encephalon. The internal filaments of the nerve are sooner left by the neurilema than the ex- ternal filaments. There results from this that when the nerve is pulled out, it tears farther externally than internally, and there re- mains a prominence which has erroneously been compared to an apophysis on which the nerve is inserted. 774. In their course the nerves divide so as to retain nearly the same volume in the interval between their divisions. The divi- sions merely consist of a separation of the filaments of which the nerves are composed, and do not resemble those of the vessels. The divisions of the nerves are in general accompanied by those of the vessels, although they do not exactly correspond to them. The nerves communicate together in three ways ; 1st, By anastomoses ; 2dly, By plexus ; 3dly, By the ganglia. 775. By anastomosis is meant the union of two nerves together. This union was so named by the ancients, because they considered the nerves as vessels in which the nervous fluid circulated, and compared them in this respect to the arteries. This expression, which has been censured, is proper enough, for there is not merely an application of the nervous filaments in the anastomoses, but a true communication of these filaments, an interosculation of their ca- nal, which in truth contains a substance that is resident in it, and not a circulating fluid, as was formerly supposed. The anastomoses take place sometimes between the branches of the same nerve, sometimes between the different nerves, and rarely between the nerves of one side and those of the opposite side. It is more especially in the nervous arches that the inosculation of the filaments is most evident. The most remarkable of these arches is that which results from the union of the nervus vagus of the right side and the solar plexus, which Wrisberg has describ- ed under the name of ansa communicans memorabilia. The plexuses are nothing else than multiplied anastomoses. Scar- pa* has given a very good description of them; but he has errone- ously likened them to the ganglia. The manner in which the last four cervical pairs unite with each other and with the first dorsal, ■ Anat. Annot. Begangliis ct'■ pkxuhis.