OF TSH3 SKIN IN GENERAL. 1 1/ The use of the pigment, in the coloured races, appears to be to protect the skin from the rubefacient effect of the sun's rays, which is commonly called sun-burning.* 304. The Epidermis, Scarf-skin, or cuticle,f is a distinct, although thin, layer of the skin, which forms a kind of dry and defensive varnish at its surface. The free or external surface of this membrane, which is at the same time the external surface of the skin, presents, as has been already seen in § 292, small wrin- I kles and eminences, variously disposed, and visible to the naked i eye. Further, if this surface be examined with a magnifying in- l strument, and even with a simple lens, the places of the epidermis • comprised between the small wrinkles, and which, to the naked i eye, seemed perfectly smooth, there appear very uneven and rugged, and present small depressions, which have so much the more the appearance of pores that the sweat is seen to exude from them. The under surface of the epidermis is adherent, and cannot be separated from the rest of the skin by dissection; but putrefac- tion, maceration, the action of heat, whether dry or moist; epis- pastics, and various diseases effect this separation. When it is i determined by incipient putrefaction—a process preferable to any i other for the purpose, there is perceived, on raising the epidermis with caution, a multitude of very delicate, transparent, and colour- ! less filaments, which break, after being elongated to a certain de- ; gree. These filaments, which have been accurately described and : figured by William Hunter, who considered them as the vessels i of the sweat, had previously been remarked by Kaau, who was of the same opinion. Bichat and M. Chaussier also consider them as exhalent and absorbent vessels. On the other hand, Cruick- shanks thinks that they are not vessels, but excessively delicate prolongations of the epidermis, which line the minute pores of the dermis. Seller seems to adopt this hypothesis, and according to him they are rudiments of sebaceous follicles and of bulbs of hairs. However, it is not certain that their prolongations exist when the i epidermis adheres to the dermis, and they might be considered as i mucous threads formed by the substance intermediate between the i dermis and epidermis, rendered fluid and viscous by incipient de- composition. The epidermis penetrates into the sebaceous follicles, where it is attenuated. It also penetrates, exhibiting the same circum- stance, into the openings of the bulbs of the hair. 305. It has been said that the epidermis is composed of im- • See Philosophical Transactions for 1821. I. On the Black Rete Mucosum, &e. 1 by Sir E. Home. t H. Fabricio, De lolius animalis intcgumcntis, ac primo dc cuticula, el tit qua supra mlirulam sunt, in Opcr. omn, Ludvvig, De culiculu, Lipsie, 1739. Meckel, ioc. at.nnd ■ JVouccllcs observations sur Cepidemic, Mem. de l'Acail. Roy. des sc. de Berlin, 17.57. •' Monro, senior, Dc cutioula humpna, oratio, in his Works, Edinb. 1781. J. Th. Klin- • kosch and Hermann, de vera natiu a cutki/Uc, cjusque regeneratione, Prague, 1775. B. Mojoi), Suit, rpidcrmidc, &c. Genua. 1815. H