379 OF ANIMATED FOREIGN BODIES. FOURTH SECTION. OF ANIMATED FOREIGN BODIES. 845. The animals* which are met with in the organization, and which live at its expense, are intestinal worms, and animals attach- ed to the surface of the body, penetrating into its substance, intro- duced into the cavities, &c. The knowledge of these animals is one of the most difficult parts of medical natural history, and one of those that have been rendered most obscure by inaccurate ob- servations. ARTICLE FIRST. OF INTESTINAL WORMS. 846. The Intestinal Worms or Entozoaf (Rudolphi,) form, or at least grow and reside in the organization. They are unable to live elsewhere. They are met with not only in the alimentary ca- nal and the tubes which open into it, but also in the cellular tissue, the muscles, and in the substance of organs the most remote from the surface of the body, such as the brain. Their organization presents numerous variations (38.) Their origin is very obscure. Confining ourselves to those which inhabit the human body, we may arrange them into three orders, viz. Vesicular Worms, Flat Worms, and Cylindrical Worms. I. OF THE VESICULAR WORMS, 847- The Vesicular Worms,J Entozoa cystica of Rudolphi, consist in a great part of their extent of a caudal vesicle of greater or less size, belonging to one only, or common to several worms. The body is depressed or rounded, always very small; the head (which is wanting in one genus) is furnished with fossula; (two or four), suckers (four,) and a crown of hooks or of four recurved probos- cides. They have no visible intestinal canal or genital organs. These worms always inhabit the substance of the organs in a dis- tinct cyst. They were long confounded together and with cysts, under the name of hydatids. Even at the present day, natu- • J. H. Ioerdcns. Entomologic und Helminthologic cles Mcnschlichcn Korpers, <$•<?. 1801—1802. a f C. A. Itudolplii. Entozoormn, sivc Vermium intcstinalinm Hist. Nat. Parisiis ct Argcntoruli. 1810. Idem. Entvzoorum Synopsis. Bcrolini, 1819. + Laennec. Mcmoiri lur les vers vesiculaircs, §c. in Bulletin dc VEcole dc Medicine. Paris, An. xiii.