2?5 OF THE BONES. rounded by a ring of this kind. M. Pclletan taught the Bamc thing in his clinical lectures. Camper had observed that there are an external callus and an internal callus. Bichat, M. Dupuytren, M. Cruveilher, and others, have admitted that these external and internal ossifications are provisory. Many pathologists, and especially Bordenave, Bichat, Richerand, Scarpa, &c. have maintained that the union of divided bones is ef- fected by cellular and vascular granulations, like that of the soft parts, which is true of the one and the other only in cases where the division is external and suppurative, and not when it takes place, as well as the union, without external wound and without suppuration. I have already elsewhere* remarked, that all that these hypo- theses want, in order to be theories or exact expression of facts, is to be combined, or not to be exclusive. This was Troja^ opinion, and is also that of M. Boyer, M. Delpech, &c. In fact, in the uniting of a simple fracture, there take place in succession, agglutination of the fragments by an organizable fluid, the materials of which are furnished by the blood; ossification of a similar substance, infiltrated all round the fracture, both inter- nally and externally; lastly, vascular and osseous union between the fragments themselves. The periosteum, which, when it exists, appears to perform so important a part in the production of the callus, is no more indis- pensable here than in the reproduction after necrosis. It has been removed from the ends of fractured bones in birds, and has been reproduced at the same time that the callus formed. Comminuted fracture of the long bones, and especially that which is produced by fire-arms, is accompanied, in its union, by a large and permanent osseous production. It is in this production especially, in the same manner as in exostosis, as well as in repro- duction after necrosis, that a great mass of new osseous matter may be seen. After being fluid it becomes solid, soft, flexible, and elastic, so that it might almost be mistaken for cartilage. But this substance contains numerous bony dots ; and if the observation is made in an animal that has taken madder, it is found to be of a j?ose colour, or even red, which is never the case with cartilages. It afterwards becomes hard like a common bone, and even more so. This permanent bony tumour bears the name of callus. 611. Wounds of the bones differ from fractures, in the state of the solution of continuity itself, and in its mode of filling up, which is different from that described above. The bony tissue being very hard, and possessed of little flexibility, a sharp instrument which cuts it obliquely really produces a multitude of small fractures in the fragment which it raises, just as happens to a chip of dry wood raised by the blow of a hatchet. As to the subsequent union of this cut, as that of a fracture with wound, it commonly does not take place until after an exfoliation, and by the formation of sup- purating granulations. " A. Beclard, Projw&itiow sur quclquei Points de la MMcoilie, Talis, 1813.