75 QF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. tissue avoimd each of the parts which enter into their structure ; the quantity of this tissue being in general proportionate to the number of different parts 'which the organ contains. In propor- tion as the cellular tissue divides and subdivides to embrace the most delicate parts of the organs, it becomes itself more delicate, and the envelope which it forms is thinner. Thus the small arte- ries have a finer envelope of this substance than the trunks. The envelopes formed by the cellular tissue are in general so much the thicker, the greater the motions which the parts perform, and it is for this reason that the cellular tissue is more abundant in the muscles than in the glands. Certain organs, as the ligaments, tendons, bones, and cartilages, do not contain any free or very distinct cellular tissue in their substance. In general, before it assume a decided appearance, the organs must present appreciable intervals between their component parts. Thus, the ligaments which have apparent fibres, also present cellular tissue which separates these fibres, and there is none observed in those appar- ently destitute of fibres. 141. Not only does the cellular tissue enter into the composi- tion of all the organs, but it even forms the base of all (tewtus, cellularis organicus, seu parenchymalis,) and forms several of them of itself alone. It is it, or the fibre or substance which com- poses it, that constitutes, only with different degrees of consistence, the serous membranes, the true skin, the vessels, the ligamentous tissues, in short almost all the parts, excepting the nerves and muscles, and even these differ from the cellular tissue only in hav- ing globules superadded to that tissue. The horny parts and epi- dermis are the only substances that are entirely different from cellular tissue. Haller and some other anatomists have referred to the cellular tissue the spongy or cavernous tissues, and the air- vesicles of the lungs ; but these parts possess a peculiar disposi- tion, which prevents their being confounded with the cellular tis- sue. The cavities of the hyaloid membrane, which v/ere also by Haller referred to the tissue of which we speak, must, also be dis- tinguished from it. 142. Anatomists are at variance respecting the internal confor- mation of the cellular tissue. Some consider it, with Haller, as having distinct cellules, of a determinate form and magnitude, formed by the crossing of numerous laminae and filaments. Others' on the contrary, such as Bordeu, Wolff, and M. Meckel, say that this tissue is nothing but a viscous, tenacious and continuous sub- stance, destitute of laminae and cellules, and consider these latter, when they exist, as the result of the operations made for demon- strating them. The following is what we learn on this subject from inspection. When the cut edge of a muscle is examined with the lens, it is discovered that its fibres do not touch each other, but are separat- ed by a transparent substance. If these fibres be drawn from each other, the interfering substance forms filaments, which elongate as