OF ANIMALS. s 17 intestinal worms; but these animals having no circulation, their ovary and testicles consist solely of secreting vessels which are free or floating. The genital organs are also of two kinds in many mollusca, in the annelides and other articulate animals, and in the vertebrata; only in those which have a circulation, the ovaries and testicles are glandular masses. Among these animals, some are hermaphrodites, or provided with male and with female organs; but this hermaphroditism is incomplete, or rather insufficient, for to produce fecundation they require a reciprocal copulation with another individual of the same species. Such is the case with some annelides and mollusca. In a still higher order of organ- ization, the genital organs are separated and borne by different in- dividuals, a circumstance which constitutes the distinction of sexes. This is observed in some intestinal worms, in many mollusca, in the classes insecta, Crustacea and arachnides, and in all the vertex brate animals. 24. In the sexual generation, the germ is inclosed along with nutritive matters in an envelope generally membranous, but some- times more solid, and even calcareous. Sometimes the egg con- tains nutritious matters in sufficient quantity for the complete development of the embryo, and only receives the influence of the atmospheric air, and at the most that of humidity, through its envelope. The animal is then oviparous, whether the egg be laid entire, and the development of the embryo take place after its deposition, or development precede the expulsion of the egg, and the latter break at the moment of birth. In the oviparous gene- ration, the germ is not in general detached until after fecundation. In some cases, however, it becomes detached previously, and the egg is fecundated during the act of expulsion, or even after it has been deposited. The egg does not always contain ma- terials sufficient for the development of the embryo ; in which case it becomes attached to the internal surface of the uterus, and there absorbs nutritious matters. The young is born alive, ac- companied with the remains of its membranous egg, but in a state of feebleness which renders it necessary to be fed with an animal fluid which the mother secretes, and which is the milk. The mam- mifera are the only animals that produce their young in this man- ner. At the period when they issue from the egg, some young animals bear no resemblance to their parents, and before attaining their perfect state, undergo changes which are called metamor- phoses. Of this kind are the larvae of insects, and the tadpoles of the Batrachia. The others, on the contrary, are similar at birth to their parents, or at least exhibit only differences of proportion which vanish as they advance in age. 25. Nutrition and generation are not the only modes of produc- tion or formation of animals ; they also possess, although in a lower and less general degree than vegetables, the faculty of re- producing, by a kind of vegetation, the parts that have been re- moved or destroyed. But all animals have not this faculty in the