196 OF THE AKTEIUES. similar to those which the pneumogastric nerves form around the oesophagus, and thus accompany them into the interior of the organs. But, besides, some filaments terminate in the outer coat, and others arrive at the middle membrane, on which they spread out into a very delicate net-work. The former are soft and flat, the latter, which are filiform and of extreme minuteness, have more consistence, and pass through a shorter course. All the arteries do not receive an equal number of nerves. The pulmo- nary arteries receive fewer than the aorta and its divisions. They are the more abundant the smaller the arteries are. The arteries of the brain are furnished with nerves only to the place at which they penetrate into the cerebral substance. In old age, the nerves of the arteries, especially those of the middle membrane, become less apparent. The great number of nerves which the arteries receive shows a close connexion between the nervous system and the circulatory apparatus, between the nerves and the blood. 416. The most remarkable physical properties of the arteries are the firmness of their tissue, its tenacity and its elasticity. It is to the firmness of the middle membrane that they especially owe the faculty of preserving a great part of their circular form, although empty of blood. Their specific gravity is about 108. Their thickness, which is in general considerable, is a little further increased when they are empty. It is also somewhat greater on the convex side of the curvatures than on the opposite side, nearly in the proportion of 0 to 7- It increases proportionally to the caliber of the arteries, as the latter diminishes. It is not the same however, in all the arteries of the same diameter. Thus the walls of the arteries of the brain are very thin, and those of the mem- branes are thick. 417- The resistance of the arteries to rupture has been examin- ed by Clifton Wintringham. I have also made some experiments on this subject. These vessels have a great power of resistance, which is, in general, proportional to their thickness. That of the aorta is superior to that of the pulmonary artery. In proportion as the arteries diminish in size, their absolute resistance diminishes, but their relative thickness and their softness augmenting, their extensibility and their relative resistance increase. The resistance is not however the same in all the arteries of the same volume : that of the iliac artery is greater than that of the carotid. The resistance in the longitudinal direction is almost entirely dependent upon the outer membrane. The circular resistance, which is much stronger, is owing to the middle and outer membranes. The inner membrane has very little power of resistance in either direc- tion. 418. The elasticity of the arteries is their most important phy- sical property. If they be distended in the longitudinal direction, they yield and elongate, to return suddenly upon themselves when the distention ceases. If they be distended transversely, they yield less and return with still more force. If by injection or in-