OF THE CELLULAlt TISSUE. 72 ceededthem, have only mentioned the cellular tissue in speaking of the different parts in which it occurs, as around the vessels, mus- cles, fat, &c. Kaaw Bocrhaave, Bergen, and Window, were the first who gave out any general ideas respecting the continuity of this tissue in the different regions ; but it has only been since the time of Haller that it has been presented in its true point of view. The cellular tissue has formed the subject of numerous works. Schobinger, Thierry, W. Hunter, Bordeu, Fouquet, Wolff, Bet- ten, Lucai, and Be Felici, have expressly written upon it. Their works have added little to the description given by Haller; but several of them are remarkable for containing more or less accu- rate ideas respecting the nature and functions of this tissue.* All anatomists, and especially those who have written upon general anatomy, have spoken of it in their treatises. Mascagni alone hardly names it. There are no good figures of the cellular tissue, and in fact it cannot be properly represented, because it has no determinate form or colour. Wolff has attempted to figure it, but without success. 136. To facilitate the study of the cellular tissue, it is succes- sively examined in two portions, one of which is considered as in- dependent of the organs, and only fills up the vacuities which they leave between each other, while the other only refers to the organs which it envelopes, and into the texture of which it enters. These portions are only distinct in idea, for the cellular tissue is every- where continuous with itself. 137. The first portion is the external, general, or common cel- lular tissue, (textus cellularis intermedins, sen hums,) that which does not penetrate into the organs. The common cellular tissue has the same extent and general form as the body. Were all the organs supposed to be removed, and were the cellular tissue sup- posed to be able to support itself, it would form a whole, retaining the figure of the body, and presenting a multitude of cavities, for the different organs. The thickness of the layer which it forms around each of them is not the same as in all parts of the body. In the vertebral canal, the cellular tissue exists but in very small quantity, and in the interior of the cranium it forms a layer so extremely thin as to be scarcely visible. Externally of these parts it is more plentiful, and it is especially abundant round the spine, particularly at its fore part. In the head, the different parts of • Dav. Ch. Schobinger. Be tclaz ceUulosce infabricd corporis human* dignitatc. Gott. 1748. Fr. Thierry. Ergo in cclltiloso tevtufrcqucntius morbi et morborum muta. tioncs, Paris, 174-9, 1757, 1788. W. Hunter, Remarks on the Cellular Membrane, &.c. in Med. Observ. and Inquiries, vol. ii. London, 1757. Th. dc Bordeu. lie. chcrches sur le tissu, muqucux on Vorganc ccllulairc, &c., Paris, 17C7.—Fouquet and Abadie. Dc corporc cribroso Hippocratis, Montpell. 1774.—C. F. Wolf. Be tela quam dicunt ccllulosam obscrvalioiics, in Nova Acta Acad. Sc. Imp. Petrop. vol. vi. vii. viii., 1790, 1791. M. Detten. Bcylrage, &c. i. c. Supplement to the study of the Functions of the Cellular Tissue. Minister, 1800—S. Ch. Lucas Ainwtationcs circa telam ccllulosam, in Obscrv. circa Nervos, &c. Francof. ad Mocn. 1810.—(J. M. d<< Felici. Ccnni di una ntwvu rdcasulla natunidcl tcssuto ccllularc—Paviu, 1817.