339 OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. in the arrival of blood remaining venous in the left vcntriele, (God- win,) in the penetration of this blood into the muscular substance of the heart, (Bichat,) results much more probably from the pene- tration of the venous blood into the nervous substance. In like manner, syncope depends upon the interruption of the innervation of the heart. Life being essentially connected with the reciprocal action of the blood upon the nervous substance, and of the ner- vous substance upon the blood. Does the nervous agent result directly and solely from the reci- procal action of the blood and the nervous substance ? Is it de- rived from without ? Can it pass from one individual into ano- ther ? Does it result from the opposition of the white and grey substances ? from the action of the nervous fibre upon the muscu- lar fibre? Would the nervous action be then comparable to an electric discharge ? 7G3. The nervous action is excited or put into play by external or internal stimulants. 764. The first moments of that formation and development of the nervous system cannot be apprehended by observation. Does this system exist from the commencement, and does not generation result from the union of the cellulo-vascular system furnished by the mother, and the nervous system furnished by the male (Ro- lando) ? Does the nervous system commence by the formation of the cardiac ganglion, and is it successively developed by the great sympathetic nerve and the rest of the system (Ackermann *) ? What we have learned from observation is that the spinal nerves and ganglia are formed before the spinal marrow, and the latter be- fore the encephalon, that is to say, before the cerebellum, the tu- bercles and the brain. The spinal marrow, which is at first open behind like a gutter, then hollowed like a pipe, by the edges coming together, finally be- comes solid. It at first occupies the whole length of the vertebral canal. The white substance which forms its exterior is deposited first. The grey substance is afterwards deposited at its interior, and fills up the cavity. The cerebellum, tubercles and cerebrum, which at first only con- stitute broader parts of the gutter of the spinal marrow, turns back, meet each other, and unite in the median line, presenting in the various phases of their development the most correct resemblance to the same parts of fishes, reptiles, birds and mammifera, ascend- ing from the glires towards the quadrumana (739.) In the brain, as in the rest of the encephalon, and as in the spinal marrow, the growth in thickness takes place simultaneously at the exterior and interior. It is by this circumstance that we are, with M. Desmoulins, to account for the existence of a cavity which is found, in the foetal state, in the substance of the centrum ovale of Vieussens, between the inner layer and the outer layer of the vault of the lateral ventricles. * Ackermann. Dc Sjslcmatis ncrvci primordi'is, Ihuklb. 1813. Tiedemann.