154 OF THE SKIN IN GENERAL. 322. The skin sometimes presents original vices of conforma- tion. These may be either vices of defect, constituting divisions or denudations in the foetus, or of excess, and then there are folds or bags of greater or less extent. It also presents acquired vices of conformation. Its distension, when carried to a great length, as in gestation for example, separates and tears asunder the fibres of the dermis, and produces marks which are at first brown after child birth, and afterwards become and continue whiter than the rest of the skin and shining. More moderate and more prolonged distension causes the skin to lose its elasticity or retractile power, and when it has cessed leaves wrinkles more or less distinct. 323. The skin is the frequent seat of congestions, fluxion, acute, and chronic inflammations, whose very diversified effects, whether upon the texture of the membrane, or upon its colour, or upon the products of secretion, have given rise to the establishment of half a hundred genera, and double that number of species of diseases of the skin, consisting of pimples, scales, eruptions, ampullae, pus- tules, vesicles, tubercles, spots, &c. respecting which may be con- sulted with advantage the works of Plenck, M. Alibert, Willan, and Bateman. 324. The retention of the sebaceous matter and its accumula- tion in the follicles, give rise to the formation of tumours, which are named tannes when they are small, and which when large are confounded with encysted tumours under the names of wens, mili- ceris, atheromata, and steatomata. When the tumour is small, and the orifice of the follicle is not obliterated, the sebaceous mat- ter may be pressed out under the form of a worm, a circumstance which has led inattentive observers, fond of the marvellous, into error. When, on the contrary, the tumour has become enlarged and bulky, and its orifice is not apparent, it greatly resembles a cyst; but on dissecting it carefully, traces are found of the orifice at the point where it is attached to the skin, and if the skin and the tumour are cut at this point, the epidermis is easily followed in its reflection from the surface of the former into the cavity of the latter. The contained matter, whether it have the appearance of honey, pap, or suet, still sufficiently resembles the matter of the sebaceous follicles not to be mistaken for any thing else. 325. Various accidental productions, whether of the same na- ture, or morbid, are observed in the skin. This membrane is sometimes raised by a greater or less, and sometimes immense number of tumours of very different sizes, formed by the accidental production of a white fibrous tissue, much more compact than the cellular tissue, and weaker than the ligamentous tissue. The same tissue also occurs pretty frequently in polypi, and especially in sub- mucous tumours of the vagina and vulva. 326. The colour of the skin presents various alterations, the most singular of which is that exhibited by Albinos. In them the skin is of a dull or reddish white, very different from the white of Europeans; the hairs are transparent and whitish, or rather co