OF THE ARTERIES. sop tained in the arteries, and that which passes through the capillary vessels. The pulse is felt for the purpose of examining the state of the circulation and the moving powers of the blood, viz. the heart and vessels. The walls of the arteries increase in thickness and density during the whole period of growth, and continue to increase in density during the whole of the remaining period of life. The varieties of the arteries are much more frequent than they are generally said to be. Bichat and M. Meckel* have said with reason, that they are at least as frequent as those of the veins, if not more so. It is in the large arteries especially that they are remarkable, + both on account of their frequency, and from a kind of regularity or symmetry, as well as the resemblance which they then present to the regular state of certain animals. 425. Besides the accidental vessels already spoken of (371) when a principal artery has its continuity interrupted, these still form supplementary passages for the circulation. These passages commonly result from the increase of volume of old vessels, which, from being white or colourless, as they were from their extreme minuteness, become red, or which, from being red and capillary, become more voluminous; but which, previously to this circum- stance, formed collateral passages by their anastomoses (350.) In certain cases the circulation is re-established by entirely new pas- sages, by arteries of new formation. This fact, which was sup- posed to exist by John Hunter, and seen by M. Maunoir and by Jones himself, although he had combated Maunoir's opinion, has been placed beyond doubt by Dr. Parry's experiments. J If the carotid artery of a sheep, which gives oft' no branch in the whole length of the neck, be tied, or a part of it cut out, the circulation is found to be re-established, some time after, in the place where the artery has been obliterated or removed, by several nearly pa- rallel branches occupying the interval which exists between the two ends of the artery. 426. General inflammation of the arteries is rare ; local arteritis, however, is not so. Besides acquiring a red colour, the walls of the arteries become thicker and softer, and in their interior there is often a plastic, sometimes a purulent exudation, and sometimes vdcerations of greater or less depth. 427. Wounds of the arteries § present anatomical considerations of great interest. The acupuncture or pricking of an artery gives rise to a hemorrhage, which is slight if the vessel is surrounded by cellular tissue, and more profuse if it is denuded of its sheath. The hemorrhage is stopped by the coagulation of the blood, which is • Deutches Archiv.fttr die Physiologic. •f Fr. Tiedmann, Tabulx Artcriurnm Corp. Ilumani, Carlsruhse, 1822. t Loc. cit. § J. F. D. Jones. On the Process employed by Nature in Suppressing tlie Hae- morrhage, &c. Lond 1810. JLSeclard, loc. cit.