% 1 J as, ithJH- saps ft USB i lenomenon, that their exciting cause ope- Aeb enter b ac- e larynx, the anterior tie muscular powers Pflfer info acton hj k,mhtm time ism. In tk latter and jjilerthecessationof to their irritability the lo^tbesusceptiif :SS*r ^Cts,taD ((DO The1 If ,#er OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. 303 acts more efficaciously when the external muscles are not compre- j wended along with the nerve in the circuit. The contrary takes place with respect to the internal muscles. The order established by Nysten for the successive extinction of irritability in the bodies of beheaded persons, is the following,— list, The aortic ventricle of the heart; 2dly, The large intestine, tthe small intestine, and the stomach ; 3dly, The urinary bladder ; ikhly, The pulmonary ventricle; 5thly, The oesophagus; 6thly, lThe iris ; ^hly, The external muscles ; 8thly, The right auricle; iind, lastly, the left. Muscles, or portions of muscles, separated from the living body, reetain their irritability for some time. They present variations in tbhis respect similar to those which we have just pointed out. Con- traction evidently takes place in these two circumstances without ion afflux of blood. 688. When the irritability is nearly extinguished or exhausted im the muscle, irritation no longer determines general or extensive ^contraction of the entire muscles, their bundles or their fasciculi, Dut remain confined to the points that are irritated, which swell nrom the flexuosity of which they become the seat. This last kind rof irritability which survives the nervous action, seems to me to be i eentirely of the same nature as that observed in the fi brine of the balood, it is there truly the vis insita of the muscular fibre. 689- The kind of death, the previous state, and the surround- | iing circumstances, exert an influence upon the irritability of the i diead body. The state of paralysis, or hemiplegia, does not pre- i Trent the muscles from being irritable, in the dead body, by gal- i riranism. Diseases influence the irritability of the dead body much * rmore by their progress and duration than by their nature. Chronic illiseases alter more this property than acute diseases, and most I particularly the chronic diseases affecting the organs or function of : [nutrition. The most muscular subjects are not those in which l mmiscular irritability continues longest after death. Its duration varies from one hour to about twenty-four hours. 690. At length, after all general or local irritability has ceased iin the body deprived of life, the stiffness which follows death ma- linifests itself. (124.) It is a constant phenomenon, whatever Haller aand Bichat may have said of it, but it varies in its intensity and dduration. This contraction, or stiffening, which has its seat in the rmuscular system, is independent of the nervous system ; it only tiakes place when that system is no longer excitable by galvanism. (Cutting of the nerves, the state of hemiplegia, or the removal of | tthe brain, do not prevent it from being manifested. It is the last lleeffort of muscular contractility. In the cold-blooded animals, in I'which the nervous excitability remains for a long time, the stiffen- Hiing of the body is longer in coming on, and lasts but a short time. Iln the warm-blooded animals, on the contrary, in which the nervous eexcitability does not remain long, it manifests itself shortly after ddeath, and continues long. The stiffening of the dead body seems sanalogous to the contraction of the fibrous coagulum of the blood,