resents, idieCe. erponj ire very heir or- i;tleir ve sur- Mnct i mem- :n they a four- I to the ii'klis letvecn a, tneir of no- es, into fed for pecitic under jyCODl- fbution foTW^ jjCOB- OF THE VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 3) l composed of numerous membranous lamina; covered by a lace iwork of innumerable vessels. This aperture is moreover furnished 'with a branchial membrane supported by rays from the hyoid bone, and an osseous operculum. The water which the fish draws into iits mouth to be swallowed, escapes between the divisions of the I branchiae, and acts upon the blood. The heart has but one auri- icle which receives the veins of the body, and one branchial ven- itricle. The blood, after traversing the branchiae; passes into a 1 large vessel situated under the dorsal spine, and which, performing ithe offices of ventricle and aorta, sends it to all parts of the body. I Fishes have kidneys of an elongated form placed along the sides of the spine, and a bladder. Their testicles are two enormous glands ' vulgarly known by the name of melt; their ovaries are not less 'voluminous. In most of them the eggs are first deposited, and the i male sprinkles them with the fecundating fluid; in some species (copulation takes place with intromission of spermatic fluid. These I are for the most part ovo-viviparous. The muscles which form so 1 large a portion of the mass of their body are white, very irritable, . and possessed of a less perfect organization than in the other ( classes. This is also the case with the bones. In some fishes, the I chondropterygii, the bones remain cartilaginous, the calcareous ! substance not forming filaments, but remaining in isolated grains. 1 In some, the articulations of the spine are even wanting. In i others, the bones, although fibrous and calcareous, vary greatly in I solidity, and differ in a remarkable degree from the bones of the < other classes. The ribs are often united to the transverse pro- i cesses. The organs of sense are not highly developed. The nos- l trils are merely rudimentary and form small cavities at the end of ithe snout; the eye has a flat cornear little aqueous humour, and a ] nearly spherical crystalline lens; the ear consists of a vestibular sac which contains suspended a number of hard bones, in three i membranous semicircular canals, generally situated in the cavity of i the skull; some genera only have a fenestra ovalis, situated at the external surface ; their tongue is most commonly osseous and fur- i nished with teeth, or horny j most of them have the whole skin i covered with scales; some have fleshy filaments appended to the lip, which may serve as organs of touch. The prolongation of the : spinal marrow into the skull terminates anteriorly by bulgings from which are given off the olfactory nerves. The class of fishes presents, in the nature of the skeleton, ac- i companied by a difference in the mode of generation, a well marked division into cartilaginous fishes and osseous fishes. In this class of vertebrate animals there occurs a genus, that of the flounders or flat fishes, in which there is so great a want of symmetry in the head that the two eyes are placed on the same side. 58. The reptiles present much greater differences than any of the other three classes of vertebrate animals, in their configuration, structure, and functions. In fact, some of them have four feet,