97 OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. gentes,) so mimed because tliey contain numerous serous vessels iu their substance, are bedewed with a fluid resembling the serum of the blood, and furnish coats to many organs, form a system of membranes closed on all sides, adhering by one of their surfaces to the surrounding parts, free and in contact with themselves at the other surface, serving to isolate certain parts and to facilitate mo- tion, and resulting from a very simple modification of the cellular tissue. 181. Although long confounded with the parts to which they are attached, the serous membranes have been particularly distinguished from the other parts, and examined in their general relations, by Bonn,* Monro,-}- and especially Bichat.j 182. The serous system comprehends membranes which, from their great similarity, form a very natural genus, in which how- ever there are differences sufficient to authorize their separation in- to several groups. With reference to their situation and the greater or less unctuosity of the fluid by which they are moistened, they are distinguished into serous membranes properly so called, or se- rous membranes of the splanchnic cavities, and synovial mem- branes ; and these latter are themselves distinguished into those of the articulations, those of the tendons, and those which are subcu- taneous. We shall first give an account of the characters common to the whole genus, and then of those of the different species. SECTION FIRST, 01-' TIIE SEKOUS MEMBRANES IN GENERAL. 183. All the serous membranes consist of bags closed on all sides. There is no other exception to this general disposition than the opening by which the peritoneum communicates with the geni- tal organs in the female, these organs being themselves interrupted in their continuity between the ovary and the commencement of the oviduct or uterine tube. There results from the general con- formation of the serous membranes, that the fluids which they eon- tain are entirely isolated, and that the membranes arc only perme- able by the vessels which ramify in their substance, and not, like the cellular tissue, by areolae communicating freely with each other. This conformation presents some varieties or secondary forms. Some of those membranes are as simple as possible, and present the ap- pearance of a bag or bladder. These are called vesicular. Others form sheathing envelopes which surround certain parts, as tendons, ligaments, and blood-vessels; and as they are not perforated to al- low these parts to pass out, but are reflected at their two extremities, and thus form a double sheath, they have for this reason obtained • De Conlinuatimibiu Memhranarum. Ainst. Batav, I7(i:s. f A description of all the Bursa- Mucosae, &c. Ediu. J"!-* 4 Traite des Ulcmbraitcs, Paris, An. viii.