342 OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. mena. The blood is presently surrounded by a layer of organiza- ble lymph. This layer becomes vascular, and unites with the nervous substance. The blood is gradually absorbed, whether first the fibrinous and cruoric parts, and then there remains scrosi- ty,* or first the serosity, and there then remains a fibrinous coa- gulum,-f- with which the cyst unites. At length, the whole of the blood being absorbed, the cyst, which gradually shrinks upon itself, contracts adhesions, and becomes a yellow cicatrix which perhaps ultimately disappears.! The cicatrices and other alterations of the nerves will be after- wards examined. 769. The nervous system, which performs so important a part in the regular exercise of the functions, performs an equally im- portant part in the production of diseases.§ It is it that receives and propagates the impression of morbific causes, determines the irregular motions of the muscles, the heart and the arteries, and produces morbid sympathies ; and as its action extends to the cel- lular tissue which forms the basis of the organs, and to the blood which penetrates into them and moistens them, it will be easily conceived that there is no morbid action in which it does not per- form a part, and that it is the principal agent of a great number of them. The diseases called general, essential or dynamic, most probably have their seat in the nervous and vascular systems, which are the centres of the animal and vegetable functions, and in the blood and the nervous agent by which they are traversed, and which are in mutual, intimate, and necessary connexion. It is in the regular relation of these two great apparatuses and their function, that life and health consist; and it is from the de- rangement of their harmony that disease and death result. SECOND SECTION. OF THE NEltVES IN GENERAL. 770. The nerves,(I Nervi, are white cords formed of medullary filaments, attached by one extremity to the nervous centre, and by the other to the teguments, the organs of sense, the muscles and the vessels. 771. The anatomists of the Italian school were pretty accuratc- " Riobe. Observations proprcs d resoudrc ccitc question ; VApoplcxie, &c. cst-dlc susceptible tic gucrison. Paris, 1814. f Rochoux. Recherdies'sur rjftpopicxie. Paris, 1811-. j Nothing can exceed the accuracy of these remarks, as T have often had oppor- tunities of observing. And I may further observe, that no other, so fur as 1 know, surpasses M. Beclard in such descriptions. They must have becn carefully record- ed at the time of the actual inspection of the diseased structure.—K. § Georget. Op. Cit. Lobstein. Discotirs sur h preeminence du Systcmc Ncrvcux. Strasbourg, 1821. „ ... || J. CRefi. Excrcitationcs Anal, de Struciura Nervorum. Hake, 1779. folio.