2 a ioH> ^> I ^ lctlons veij speedi! ; 1 a part possessed ie two bones of the A pretty sprfly j ; re-estiblishment of Lobility, as in the vi- ere takes place, fc lv follows, aa acd- . •dinf to the morions - • pee, and jfaKOl of tie fat- it all ftist»'ils ever's experiments^ of suit* of * or 01- Till: N'EUVkS IN GENERAL. °53 per aoability. In this state, the ends of the nerve arc simply ag- o-l at hinted to each other and to the neighbouring parts ; the func- tions are stiil suspended as they were immediately after the separa- tion ; the two ends of the nerve, which are swollen, and especially the upper, the surrounding cellular tissue, and the organizablc matter, acquire more consistence, and become highly vascular. In this state, which lasts some time, the two ends of the nerve are united by a vascular organizable substance; but there is as yet no communication of nervous action between the two ends. In time the surrounding cellular tissue ceases to be comoact and vascular ; the intervening substance, which varies in length, according to the kind of wound and the concomitant circumstances, gradually di- minishes in volume, consistence, and redness, assumes the appear- ance and texture of the nerve, (as proved by the application made by Meyer of nitric acid to the nervous cicatrix ) proceeding from the extremities towards the middle of their interval, and ultimately performs the functions, with so much the more precision and quickness, the less the separation of the extremities has been, as in cases of ligature, where there has been no separation, or when it has been inconsiderable, as in the case of simple section, or where there has been a very small portion cut out in a part possessed of little mobility. On the contrary, when the separation is great, no union takes place, or it only takes place by means of cellular tis- sue, which at a certain distance from the extremity does not ac- quire the structure and properties of the nerve. The time neces- sary for the complete re-establishment of the structure and func- tions is not exactly known. It has certainly been exaggerated by those who have asserted that it must be several years ; it may be stated at about six weeks or two months. 789- Section of the united pneumo-gastric and trisplanchnic nerves, in which state they present themselves in the dog, always produces death, when performed on both sides at the same time. It is upon these nerves especiaEy that the reparation of the tissue and the re-establishment of the functions may be simultaneously examined, as they have been determined by the experiments of Cruickshank and Haighton, and my own. The following are the phenomena which we have observed on cutting these nerves at various intervals. Having on the same day cut the two pneumo-gastric nerves in two different dogs, one of them died thirty hours after the opera- tion, the other at more than sixty-six hours after this double sec- tion. Another animal, after an interval of nine days between the two sections, died in the night between the fourteenth and fifteenth days. In a fourth, the second section having been made at the end of twenty-one days, death did not supervene until the twen- tieth day after this second section. Lastly, in another animal, tho second cutting was performed thirty-two days after the first, and the animal survived a whole month. At this epoch, that is to say,