Ml ^"eluded,, ft I IN GBKul )t form a continuous ffAofe them, and it has been tried system. aieo, bat announced inone mmtheoiipndiix lit tkt the Arabians, by iotliatofmitberM as the generatDT of all the OF THE LIGAMENTOUS TISSUE IN GENERAL. 227 1* I that of membrane or envelope, as the periosteum, the meninx, the : sclerotica, Sec. These two forms, the funicular and membranous, . are confounded in certain parts, which arc elongated and rounded , at one extremity and expanded and flattened at the other, as is the case with certain tendons. Moreover, the membranous form, al- though in general destined to form envelopes, also sometimes forms bands. Such are the capsular ligaments, the aponeuroses of in- : sertion, &c. According to its connexions, the ligamentous tissue has also been divided into parts subservient to the bones, the muscles, and the other organs; and, according to its uses, into parts serving for attachments or envelopes, or for both uses. 500. The colour of the ligamentous tissue is white. Its aspect iis in general shining or silky. 501. The texture is essentially fibrous. The fibres of which iit is composed are very minute filaments, which are parallel or in- terlaced. In some long and slender tendons, the fibres are, as it 'were, interwoven. In the aponeuroses they are commonly dis- ] posed in several planes crossing each other, and sometimes as it 'were interwoven together. In some parts of this tissue, the fibres are so closely united, that the whole seems homogeneous and not ! t fibrous, of which kind are the cartilaginiform ligaments; but in 1 i all the other parts, in dropsical subjects, or in parts submitted to 1 i maceration, the bundles of fibres may be separated from each ! (other, and the fibres themselves may be separated under the form ll(of delicate filaments like the threads of the silkworm. It is not ipwell known if this be the last term of division, but it is probable lit that it is so. These filaments are white, tenacious, possessed of , llittle elasticity, flexible, and probably full and solid. Fontana and iM. Chaussier consider this fibre as primary and particular ; Isen- llflamm considers it as formed of cellular filaments impregnated Ihwith gluten and albumen ; Mascagni says that microscopic inspec- tion seems to demonstrate that those primary filaments result from s a mass of absorbent vessels surrounded by a membrane formed of t these same vessels and from another resulting from very minute 1 blood-vessels forming a subtile net-work. It will be seen that this j iis nothing more than the idea already exposed in ยง 394. These litfilaments appear to be very condensed cellular tissue. Maceration -softens them and converts them into mucous or cellular substance. The various ligamentous organs are enveloped with sheaths fformed by the cellular tissue. Those, moreover, which have dis- ttinct fasciculi contain cellular tissue in their intervals. Lastly, tthe fibres are themselves surrounded and connected together by tthat tissue, which infiltration and maceration render very appar- tent. Adipose tissue also occurs in the substance of the ligamen- tous organs. The ligamentous tissue has, in general, little vascu- larity ; some small blood-vessels, however, are found at its surface and can be traced into its substance. To see them well, it is necessary, after injecting them with red, to dry the part, and then l|ssoak it with volatile oil of turpentine to render it transparent.