""is !?N * of H ,l wnkm. These ton perif lie ud thickness in all y may \)e peiceWed i traverse section, d or immersed ia al- priimaiic form, and ittle. Tbeirlengti, ;erval between their Haller, on the coa- ^ciculi have notthe OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. 291 ldle of those above- ict bundles, raed of bundles of tt may be distal- 3» remarked, however, that the first of these observers, having cm- ployed in their researches only glasses which did not magnify more than a hundred and fifty times, were unable to perceive the prim- ; ary fibres, which, to be seen, require to be magnified about three bundled times. Their observations therefore refer to secondary fibres. Hooke observed, that the muscles of various animals are com- posed of an innumerable quantity of minute threads, the volume of which he estimates at the hundredth part of a hair, and whose figure he compares to that of a string of pearls or coral beads. Leuwenhoeck, after perceiving the muscular fibres, which he i named primary, conjectured that they were still compounded, go- ; ing on the erroneous supposition, that the spermatic animalcules, ■ which are of less diameter than the fibres, must be furnished with 1 nerves and muscles. He gave several coarse figures of them. ' Those of Dehayde, although still coarse, are more accurate. Muys has given full and correct descriptions of them : he represents 1 them as most commonly cylindrical, and but rarely nodulous. Delia Torre said that they were reddish, which is not generally : true. Prochaska's observations, which are much more accurate, 1 have shown that these fibres are parallel, but not always straight, 1 and that in boiled flesh they are always flexuous ; that their form is not cylindrical, but flattened or prismatic ; and that their sub- stance is diaphanous, and appears solid. Their diameter, which varies little, appeared to him to be seven to eight times less than the greatest diameter of a red globule of the blood :—an ob- servation which does not seem to be correct. These fibres appear- 1 ed to him to form the limit of the division of the muscles, without his venturing to affirm, however, that they were elementary fibres. Microscopical observation made by the brothers Wenzell on a por- tion of muscle previously immersed for eight days in a mixture of . alcohol and muriatic acid, showed them each fibre composed of excessively minute corpuscles of a round form. According to M. Autenrieth, the diameter of these fibres is the fifth of that of the globules of the blood. M. Sprengel, on the contrary, estimates the diameter of the muscular fibre at seven times that of the glo- bules of the blood, (which is the three hundredth of a line) or about a fortieth of a line. He describes it as angular, striated and full. The microscopical observations of M. Bauer and Sir E. Home, published with very beautiful figures, represent the muscu- lar fibre as identical with the particles of the blood deprived of their colouring matter, and of which the central globules are con- nected into filaments. MM. Prevost and Dumas have constantly obtained the same result, whatever animal was examined, and of whatever form or size its globules were. My own observations perfectly agree with theirs. In order that observation leave no doubts, it must be made on fresh muscular flesh that has not been any way prepared. In fact, as boiling and the action of alcohol produce globules by coagulating the albumen, their presence in