260 OK THE BONES. and Vauquelin admit, moreover, in the bone?;, iron, magnesia, si- lica, alumina and phosphate of ammonia, but no filiate. Besides the differences of composition dependent upon age, in- dividual constitution, and morbid affections, circumstances which make the proportion of the animal substance and the earthy sub- stance vary, all the bones have riot exactly the same composition in the same individual. Thus the bones of the skull generally contain a little more of earthy substance than the others. The petrous portion of the temporal bone is of all the parts that which contains most.* . 587. The bones are cf a yellowish white colour and opaque, but it is especially by their hardness, their little flexibility, and their re- sistance to rupture that they are remarkable, and it is by these properties that they perform their part in the organism. However little flexibility and compressibility they possess, they are elastic. They also possess a slow but real extensibility and power of con- traction. Thus the maxillar sinus, the nasal fossa?, the orbit, kc. are gradually enlarged by the development of tumours in their" interior. These cavities also return upon themselves when they are freed of these causes of extension. The alveoli contract and become effaced alter the loss of the teeth, &c. They possess no other kind of contraction. Sensibility exists in them only in the morbid state. Their power of formation is very remarkable in these two respects, that all the phenomena which belong to it, as their first formation, separation, alterations of tex- ture, &c. lake place in a very slow manner, while the faculties of reproduction and accidental production are greater in them than in any other tissue. 588. The formation of the bones, ossification, or osteogenesisf is a phenomenon which has much occupied the attention of ob- servers, and which is, in fact, highly worthy of it. The bones experience in their development, transformations so much the more remarkable, that the different states through which they pass correspond to similar, but permanent states, which are observed in animals. After being fluid like all the other parts, they become, first, " John Davy, in Monro's Outlines of the Anatomy of the Human Body. Edinh. 1813. f H. Eysson. De Ossibus bifa7itis, ctii trattatui annexus est V. Coiter, Ostium In. fantis Historia, 12mo. Groning. 1659.—Th. Kerkring. Oitcogcnia Jivlus. Lugd. Bat. 1717 It. Nesbitt, The Human Osteogeny. Lond. 1736—J. Baster. De Osteopenia. Lugd. Bat. 1731 A. Vatcr ct Ulmann. Osteogenic!. Vitcb. 1333— Albinus. Ann. Acad. lib. vi. vii—Id. Iconcs Ossium Fcctus JJumani. accedit Ostcogc- mwbrcvis Historia. Lugd. Bat. 1737.—Duhamel. Mem. dc VAcad. Roy. des Sc. 1739, 41, 43-46.—Bailer, Experimentade Ossium formationc in Op. Min.W—Ile- rissant, Mem. de VAcad. Roy. des Sc. 1768—C. F. Senff. Novnnlla de Jticremmto Ossium Erkbryonum inprimis Graviditatis mensibus. Halae, 1801.—.)• Fr. Meckel. Dcutsehcs Arcldv. fur die Physiolqg. b. i. h. 4.—J. Howship. Exper and Observ. on fhe Formation of Bone, in Med. Chir. Trans. Vol. vi. Lond. HjfS—A. Becl&rd. Mem. sur VOtteosc, in Nouveuu Journ. dc Med. vol. iv. 1819—Scrrcs. Da Lois de VOstagenie, Analyse des Ttav, dc VAcad. Roy. des Sc. 1819.