<3F THE GANGLIA AND SYMPATHETIC MEIIVE. 35(J towards the anterior extremity. These filaments unite and in- termingle with each other, so that each filament, as it issues from the ganglion, is formed of filaments which probably come from several of the cords which enter it. The number, tenuity And blend- ing of the filaments, however, are not very great. The spinal gan- glia have a simple texture compared with the other. The nervous fasciculi which are collected together at their egress from the ganglion, intimately unite, after a course of hardly a few lines, with those of the anterior root, to form the common trunk of the spinal nerves ; and this trunk itself has only a length of one or two lines when it divides into two branches, the anterior and posterior. The common trunk of each spinal nerve, at a short distance from the ganglion, furnishes a single, frequently double, and rarely triple branch, which direets itself towards the neighbouring gang- lion of the trunk of the sympathetic nerve, and joins it in such a manner, as to establish the most intimate connexion between the saerves of the spinal marrow, the spinal marrow itself, and the great sympathetic nerve. It has been a subject of much discussion among anatomists, and especially among physiologists, whether the communicating branch comes from the one or the other root. I have seen, as Scarpa and M. Wutzer have also seen, that the single or double root comes from the inextricable common trunk, and that when it can be followed, it is found to eorae from both roots. This communicating branch, which in its origin resembles the spinal nerves, on arriving at the distance of about a line from the ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, becomes red, and gradually assumes the character of that nerve. The ganglion of the fifth pair of nerves, or the ganglion of Gas- ser, evidently belongs to the series of spinal ganglia, from which it differs only in form. The white nervous fasciculi which pas6 beneath it, without forming part of it, and which Paletta has pro- posed to consider as particular nerves, entirely resemble the ante- rior root of the spinal nerves. The ganglia of the nervus vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerve also resemble the spinal ganglia in form and texture. The trunk itself of the nervus vagus has an entirely peculiar texture, differing from the other nerves, without however resulting from a linear series of ganglia, as Beil asserts. It greatly re- sembles the trunk of the sympathetic nerve. 805. The second kind of ganglia comprehends the series of the three cervical ganglia, the twelve thoracic ganglia, the five lumbar, and the four sacral ganglia, belonging on each side to the trunk of the sympathetic nerve. The ophthalmic, sphcno-palatine and maxillary ganglia are also of the same kind. To these arc to be added the cardiac ganglion, which is often replaced by a plexus, the semilunar or cceliac ganglia, and many others, situated in the solar plexus and its divisions ; the small coccygeal ganglion, which is sometimes met with at the unipn of the two sympathetic nerves,