OF ANIMALS. 29 also commonly small punctiform eyes, situated on the head or tcn- tacula. The organs of digestion are very diversified. There is never more than one heart, which is aortic. In those which arc not symmetrical, it is on the left side for the most part, and on tlw right in the reversed species. The respiratory organs vary much : the greater number have branchiae, while some respire air. The organs of generation present all the varieties, unisexual, without copulation, hermaphrodite, with reciprocal copulation, and with separated sexes. The Pteropoda form a small group of mollusca, between the acephalous and cephalated tribes. 50. The Cephalopodous mollusca form a small class, which com- prehends the inarticulated animals that have the most complex or- ganization, and which, as well as the Crustacea among the articu- lated animals, approach nearest to the vertebrata. They are soft animals, having the body enveloped in a bag formed by the mantle, which at its sides is extended more or less into fins, and whose aperture gives passage to a rounded head, crowned with fleshy feet or arms, furnished with cups, which are employed by the animal for walking, seizing, and swimming. The mouth, which is situated between the bases of the feet, is armed with two strong horny jaws, like a parrot's beak, and furnished with a tongue covered over with horny points. There is an oeso- phagus which enlarges into a kind of crop, besides which there are two other stomachs, the one muscular like a gizzard, the other membranous. From the latter proceeds a short and simple irrtci- tine, which terminates in the opening of the sac on the fore part of the neck. There is a double system of arteries and veins, two branchial ventricles, and an aortic ventricle. The respiratory or- gans are two branchiae situated in the sac, into which the water enters, and from which it again issues for respiration. There is a very large liver, which pours the bile by two ducts into the third stomach. These animals have a peculiar secretion of a black co- lour, produced by a gland, and deposited in a reservoir. The sexes are separated. In the one, there are an ovary and two ovi- ducts, which take the eggs from the ovary, and carry them through two large glands, which envelope them with a viscid substance, and unite them into clusters ; and in the other, a testicle and a vas deferens, which terminates in a fleshy penis beside the anus. There are also a vesicle and a prostate gland, which open in the anus. It appears that fecundation is performed, by shedding the spermatic fluid upon the eggs. The eye is formed of numerous membranes, and covered by the skin, which is there transparent, and even sometimes forms folds or palpebral For each eye, there is a large ganglion, whence issue innumerable nerves. The ear is a small simple cavity on each skk, near the brain, without exter- na] canal, and to which is suspended a membranous sac, which contains a small stone. The brain is contained in a cartilaginous cavity, which constitutes a rudimentary kind of skulL