O? THE MUSCULAIt SYSTEM JN GENERAL. 305 mass. At a period not very remote from conception, the action of the heart already announces a pretty advanced degree of deve- lopment in the muscular tissue of that organ. About two months after conception, the muscles of the skeleton have distinct fibres. They begin to perform some contraction towards the end of the fourth month. According to Bichat, the muscles of the foetus have less irritability, or at least a less galvanic susceptibility, than those of individuals who have respired. Experiments made by Meckel, on some animals, have afforded results the opposite of those obtained by Bichat. During childhood, the muscles remain of small size in propor- tion to the nerves and adipose tissue. At this age also, the mus- cular flesh is less red, and more gelatinous and fibrinous than in adult age; the motions are easy, quick, and weak. The muscles, which are of a bright red colour in adult age, be- come pale, yellowish, red, and livid in old age. The contractions, at this period, become difficult, weak, and slow. The irritability and actions of the muscles in the female com- pared with those of the male, present nearly the same differences as those of youth compared with adult age : a greater irritability or susceptibility of motions, and a less powerful and less sustained ac- tion. There exist differences in the races of the human species with respect to muscular power, which, according to the observations made by Peron with the dynamometer, are to the advantage of the Europeans, whose health and strength result from an abundant and healthy food, and from constant occupation; while the natives of Timor, New Holland, and Van Dieman's Land, who are expos- ed to all kinds of privations, have less muscular power. 696. When the muscles are laid bare * by a wound of the skin, aponeuroses and cellular sheaths, and these parts are again exactly applied to each other, an effusion of organizable fluid takes place in the solution of continuity, which at first adheres but little to the muscle, but which at length re-establishes an organic union. The same thing happens when muscles divided across, in amputation for example, are covered over by pieces of skin ; only the agglutin- ating matter is from the commencement very closely attached to the truncated extremity of the muscles. When muscles are divid- ed across, and not covered by pieces of skin, suppurative granula- tions soon form at their extremity, and afterwards a cicatrix. These phenomena, and especially the latter, are longer in taking place when the muscles are only denuded laterally. In all these cases, whatever may be the period at which the wound affected with inflammation, whether adhesive or suppurative, is examined, the cellular sheaths of the muscles and their bundles are alone a1 " B. Fr. Schncll, Pras. Aulcnricih, De Nature remionit musculorum vulncraior, —Tubingse, 1804.