817 OF THE EXTERNAL MUSCLES. physiologists think that it is established on the observation of the bent attitude which all the parts of the body assume in the state of rest, and that it has its cause in the force and length of the mus- I cles, the size of their nerves, and the more favourable disposition of the flexors, with reference to the centre of motion, and the di- rection of the holies. Ritter has added to these differences, that the flexors contract when the zinc pole of the galvanic pile communicates with the muscular extremity of the nerve, and the silver pole with the cen- tral extremity; and that the contrary takes place with respect to the extensor muscles. This difference is without doubt merely a difference of galvanic susceptibility,—a susceptibility sufficiently great in the strongest muscles to make them contract even in the least favourable circumstance of the galvanic action. M. Roulin thinks, * like Borelli, that the principal cause of the antagonism of the flexors and extensors depends upon their rela- tive length, and, consequently, upon their tension. This question, perhaps, deserves to be viewed in a more general manner. The predominance ought to be looked for in the length and volume of the muscles, and more particularly in the number of the fleshy fibres which enter into their composition. It is also to be looked for in the disposition of the muscles with reference to the levers on which they act. It ought to be observed! what is the attitude which the parts assume in their most ordinary action, and that which they assume in rest, in sleep, and in paralysis. Re- gard should also be had to that which they assume in general tonic spasm or tetanus. Now, in attending to these various considera- tions, it would seem that the preponderating muscles are, in the trunk, the extensor; in the jaw, the levators ; in the upper limbs in general, the flexors ; in the fore-arm, the pronators ; iri the lower limbs in general, the extensors; and in the foot, the adductors. 724. There are in the organization several circumstances unfa- vourable -f* to the action of the muscles, and which diminish then- power of contraction* or effective force, to an efficacious force, in other words* to a much less result. These circumstances* which have been well known since the time of Borelli, are; 1st* The equal distribution of the muscular effort between its two attach- ments, while a single point in general is to be moved; 2dly, The unfavourable lever, that of the third kind, by which a great part of the power is lost; 3dly, The oblique insertion of the muscles into the bones, and of the fleshy fibres into the tendons * 4thly, The resistance of the antagonist muscles ; 5thly* The friction of the tendons, and that of the joints. There are also circumstances in the organization* which, by fa- vouring muscular action, diminish the influence of the former. • See his Inquiries respecting the Motions and Attitudes of Man, in tlie Journal dc Phyfciologie, vol. i. and ii. t J- Alpfi. Borelli, Dj Mblii Aiihnaliiim. Opus pndhumum.