3(.)U OF THE GANGLIA AND SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Each ganglion and especially each plexus of twigs has a character peculiar to itself. The sympathetic nerve has been considered, by Soemmering especially, as the nerve of the arteries. In reality, the arteries re- ceive numerous twigs from it; but the muscular tissue of the heart, that of the digestive canal, the mucous membrane of that canal, and of the urinary and genital passages, the ligaments, and even the bones of the vertebral column, receive filaments from it. It is re- markable that the veins and the lymphatic vessels and glands, as well as the serous membranes, receive none. Filaments from it, on the contrary, are met with in the longi-colli muscles, the intercos- tal muscles and the diaphragm. 809. The spinal ganglia, with their nerves, are the first parts of the nervous system that make their appearance. The nervous ganglia and trunk of the trisplanchnic nerve are apparent in the foetus at the third month. The coeliac ganglia, and the splanchnic nerves, which are in a manner their roots, are de- veloped nearly as soon as the cervical ganglia and the cardiac nerves. In old age, the ganglia and their nerves are paler and drier than in adult age. The ganglia and cords of the sympathetic nerves are met with in foetuses destitute of brain, and in those which are deprived of brain and spinal marrow. 810. The vertebrate animals are the only ones which have a par- ticular nervous system for the organs of the vegetative functions. In fishes, the sympathetic nerve consists of a very slender fila- ment, with or without ganglia. In reptiles it is more distinct. It connects with each other the intervertebral nerves, and penetrates into the cranium united with the nervous vagus. In birds, it penetrates into the cranium along with the nervus vagus and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. It communicates with the fifth and sixth pairs, and presents a very apparent interruption in the neck, depending upon the circumstance that it is there contain- ed within the vertebral canal. It is very distinct and ganglionated in the thorax, and is prolonged as far as the caudal vertebra?. In the mammifera, the sympathetic nerve does not differ much from that of man. 811. MM. Meckel and Weber have remarked that the sympa- thetic nerve is so much the smaller, compared with the body, the more remote the animal is from man. A second general observa- tion is, that the sympathetic nerve and par vagum exist in an in- verse state of development; so that they supplant each other in the vegetative life to which they both belong. It is also to be re- marked, that the sympathetic nerve is developed in all animals, in proportion to their circulatory apparatus, to which they, in a great measure, belong. 812. The ganglionary nervous system, which exists in all ani- mals, which in the vertebrate animals, forms a separate system in