OF THE TEGUMENTARY MEMBRANES IN GENERAL. 127 others which are in contact with the tegument, determine impres- vsions upon it. Thus, this membrane is a more or less efficacious ..organ of protection or defence against the action of external ba- ddies. It is the organ of the absorptions and of all the extrinsic -secretions, in other words, of all those whose matter is carried out ,>or deposited at the surface. It is the organ of all the external sen- -sations and of the feelings of want and of appetite. Lastly, by ■means of its appendages, it is even sometimes an organ of offence oor aggression. But, according to the varieties of its texture, the [ functions of this membrane vary in the different regions. ^ Thus, [tthe mucous membrane is much better disposed for secretion and ^absorption than the skin, and the latter is better accommodated to jtthe sensations and to the defence of the body than the former. ;Some parts are especially disposed for sensation, and even for par- ticular kinds of sensation, others for absorption, others for excre- ition, others for generation, others for respiration, &c. 255. The immense extent of the tegumentary membrane, and tthe number and importance of the functions of which it is the seat aand instrument, render its consideration highly important, whether tin health or in disease. There exists the most intimate connexion ' between the different parts of which it is composed, a connexion which, in certain respects, was perceived by the most ancient ob- servers,* who knew that the abundance of the mucous secretion is generally in the inverse ratio of cutaneous secretion. Observation lhas shown that the healthy state of the skin coincides with a heal- tthy state of the mucous membrane, and that, for example, persons who have the skin very white, and of a fine and debcate texture, aare very liable to diseases of the skin and mucous membrane, and eespeciafiy to fluxes of these two membranes. It has also shown, tthat each part of the skin sympathises with the whole mucous mem- tbrane, and especially with certain parts of it. In like manner, t there exists the most intimate relation between the teguments and tthe mass of the body, and vice versa; a relation which is daily rrendered obvious by observation, is continually put in play by imorbid causes, and of which the medical practitioner avails himself iin the cure of diseases. 256. The embryo, we have already said, is entirely formed upon these membranes. The vitellar, or intestinal membrane, is the (first part that makes its appearance in the egg. It is by its pro- longation towards the stomach, and towards the anus, that the in- I testinc is formed. The next part that appears is the allantoid, or wesical membrane, by the extension of which the urinary passages land genital organs are formed. The external skin then forms. I From being at first widely open at the forepart of the trunk, it ■afterwards closes in the median line of the abdomen, and at length ■around the umbilicus. In the two sexes there is a considerable •i difference of conformation in the genito-urinary portion of the in- • 'H Vtytxro; i^mirnt h Killing *VKtOT*i. 11111 OKPATOYS, t£v tTihfi. B,(\.f.