OF THE VF.INS. aw veins exercise an additional action ? This is not doubtful. Let the artery of a limb in an animal be compressed or tied, the current of the blood in the veins will be slackened, but will not for all this cease. If a vein be tied, it yet empties itself above the liga- ture. It even empties itself between two ligatures. To the causes which have been above pointed out, let there be added the alter- nate relaxation of the heart, which produces a kind of attraction, inspiration, which produces a still more powerful one, and the pres- sure of the surrounding muscles. The valves, by dividing the co- lumn of the blood, render these different powers more efficacious. The form itself of the venous system makes the motion of the blood, in place of gradually slackening as in the arteries, although slower than in those vessels whose capacity is less than that of the veins, go on accelerating as it approaches the heart. The venous circulation is much more dependent than the arterial upon the effects of gravity and pressure. 450. The passage of the blood in the veins is continuous, and these vessels do not present pulsations. However, in some places and in some circumstances, they present something like an arterial pulse, which, for this reason, is called the venous pulse. In the neighbourhood of the heart, the venous trunks which are destitute of valves alternately experience, during the contraction of the au- ricles, a reflux of blood which makes them swell out during the relaxation of the auricles. In the ordinary and regular state of the functions, this twofold motion is limited to the vicinity of the heart, and is not sensible ; but when the circulation is hampered, it extends into the abdomen, and becomes visible in the neck. It is the same with the influence of the motions of respiration : inspi- ration accelerates the entrance of the blood into the venae cavae and their auricle ; active i«spiration, difficulty or suspension of the re- spiration, and efforts, on the contrary, slacken or suspend it. In the ordinary state, these effects are not very obvious or extended; but they become very distinct in the opposite cases. The efforts in which the effects of active expiration are carried to the highest degree, determine in a very sensible manner the stasis of the venous blood in the head, the abdomen, and from step to step as far as the limbs; while it is to the contrary effects of inspiration upon the venous circulation that we must refer death by the introduction of air into the heart. When, in fact, by an operation or accident, a large vein is opened at the base of the neck or in the subclavian region, a deep inspiration sometimes draws air into it, which is carried into the right or anterior cavities of the heart, and which, by arresting the circulation, suddenly produces death. 451. In youth the venous system is smaller, in proportion to the arterial system, than in adult age. Its relative capacity con- tinues to increase in old age. The walls of the veins present few observable changes, and their ossification in old age is of extremely rare occurrence.