24 INTRODUCTION. tcrnal skin is furnished with muscular fibres, and is, in general, transversely striated. They have distinct genital organs, consist- ing of very long canals. The sexes are separated. They have a nervous ring which surrounds the mouth, and two long cords, the one dorsal and the other ventral. They have also two spongy" lateral vessels. 39. The Annelides, or red-blooded worms, are vermiform ani- mals, whose elongated body is divided into numerous rings, of which the first differs a little from the others, and is named the head. The mouth is either a tube or maxilla?. They have an intestine of variable length which traverses the body, and a double system of arteries and veins without distinctly marked hearts. The blood is red, and the respiration branchial. They are herma- phrodite, with reciprocal copulation. They have muscles, and most of them have stiff hairs which serve for feet. Their head is furnished with tentacula, and some have black points which are considered as eyes. Their nervous system is a ganglionated cord. 40. The other articulated animals are all furnished with a head, and have simple or compound eyes. Their mouth, which is very complicated, is of similar construction in all, and presents two mo- difications. In the one, there are for bruising, several pairs of la- teral maxilla?, of which the anterior bears the name of mandibles, and frequently palpi or articulated filaments, which seem adapted for distinguishing the food. In the other modification, there is a proboscis for sucking. The organs of digestion are complicated and very diversified. They possess the sense of smell, but its seat has not been well ascertained. They have all an abdomen and a thorax, to the latter of which are attached at least six articulated feet. Their skin is encrusted and solid. Each joint of the feet is tubular, and contains the muscles of the next joint. All the arti- culations of the feet are ginglymi. Their generation is sexual and oviparous. This section contains three great classes, the insccta, arachnides, and Crustacea. 41. The Insecta, or hexapodal articulate animals, have the body composed of numerous segments or rings, and divided into three principal portions, six articulated feet, a distinct head furnished with eyes and two antennae, a thorax which bears the feet and wings, when the latter exist, and an abdomen which contains the principal viscera. The mouth is a very complex part. In some which bruise their food, there are lateral maxilla?, while in others which suck there is a proboscis. The intestinal canal, which is more or less long, inflated, contracted, &c. terminates in an anus. There is a vestige of heart which consists of a vessel attached along the back, divided into segments by the approximation of its walls, and ex- periencing alternate contractions, but no branches have been dis- covered. The fluid which it contains is white, and appears to pe- netrate into it as into the rest of the body by imbibition. Respi- ration is performed by means of ramified trachea1, which unite into two principal trunks. The secreting organs consist of long ves-