21<S OF TIES COSTAL AND LAUY NGliAL CARTILAGES. a costal cartilage that has been macerated for two or three months. Acids produce a similar effect. 560. The costal cartilages are somewhat flexible and highly elastic. ]n inspiration, the motion impressed upon the ribs by the muscles, bends them and twists them upon themselves ; and when the muscular action ceases, they tend of themselves to resume their original direction, and are thus agents of expiration. 561. After adult age, and in old age, the costal cartilages cease to be or to appear homogeneous. Their perichondrium becomes opaque, and there are produced, between it and the cartilage, and in its substance, bony plates, more or less numerous and broad, which sometimes end with forming a more or less complete bony sheath. This change almost always happens to the first, com- mencing at its sternal extremity. The other sterno-costal carti- lages also experience it, but in a less degree. The asternal costal tartilages, or those of the false ribs, experience it still less, or not at all. At the same time the costal cartilages become yellowish, then reddish in their centre, which also presents more or less large and numerous bony dots, which sometimes at length occupy the whole cartilage. This latter phenomenon shows itself more fre- quently and sooner in the asternal cartilages than in the others. These changes in the cartilages are commonly the effect of age. They commence towards the middle of life, and go on continually increasing. Persons of a hundred and thirty and a hundred and fifty years, however, have been seen to have costal cartilages in their natural state. . When the cartilages begin to undergo this change, desiccation causes them to break across in the centre, which has become areo- lar, and not at the surface, which has, on the contrary, become denser. They frequently ossify, and at an early age, in persons affected with phthisis. 5G2. The costal cartilages, when denuded, do not produce gra- nulations, but are covered by those of the neighbouring parts. When broken, .they do not unite by a cartilaginous substance, but a cellular lamina is produced between them, and the broken place is enveloped with a bony ring furnished by the perichondrium, and which is more or less regular, according as the fragments have re- mained more or less exactly in opposition. I have sometimes seen in man, and repeatedly in the horse, the fractures of ossified as- ternal cartilages, united by a bony callus. The costal cartilages are subject to some vices of original con- formation, and are even liable to be wanting in whole or in part. In the latter case, it is always the extremity next to the rib that exists. When the thorax is deformed, when it is contracted, as sometimes happens after the cure of pleurisy, the cartilages of the affected side bend and become deformed. 563. The nasal cartilage, that of the auditory canal, and that of the Eustachian tube, arc in a manner articulated to the bones by