OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 317 to form the brachial plexus, furnishes a very remarkable example of them. The cervical, lumbar and sciatic plexuses are also examples. These plexuses are so disposed that the nerves which issue from them derive their origin at the same time, for the most part at least, from a certain number of nerves of -which they are constituted. Bichat admits that there is nothing else in the plexus than mere- ly an intimate intermixture of the nerves. Monro says, that they contain grey substance, and may be considered as a new origin of the nerves which issue from them ; but this has by no means been demonstrated. The ganglia consist of enlargements which contain, besides the nervous filaments, a substance which is foreign to them. The ner- vous filaments are much finer. They consequently present a great- er complication than the other two modes of communication. They will be examined after the nerves, from which they differ in several respects. 776. The termination of the nerves takes place after they have passed through anastomoses, plexuses or ganglia, or directly, without their having been interrupted from their origin. The mode in which the nerves terminate is little known. They are only seen to lose their neurilema towards their extremity, and to become in con- sequence very soft; so that it is then very difficult to trace them. They generally enlarge as they approach their termination ; they become flattened, and are then lost sight of, although they seem as if they ought to be continued further. There are two hypotheses respecting the termination of the nerves, both of which are perhaps alike destitute of foundation. According to one of these hypothe- ses, the nerves lose themselves as it were in the organs, and be- come identified with their substance, which is soaked fidl of it, if one may so speak. In the other hypothesis, which belongs to Reil, the nerve, as it cannot be spread out in the whole organ at once, is surrounded by a nervous atmosphere in which it extends its ac- tion, much in the same way as that exhibited by electrical pheno- mena. What has given rise to these hypotheses is the circum- stance that the nerves are expanded in parts whose extent is much greater than their own, even after they are divided as far as the eye, aided by the microscope, can follow them, as is seen in the muscles, the skin, the organs of sense, and yet each point of these parts, however minute it may be, presents, when pricked, the same phenomena as if the nerve itself were pricked. 777- -1 he different parts do not receive an equal number of nerves. The organs of sense are those which contain most: the eye and the car present membranous expansions entirely formed of nervous substance. The skin, particularly on the hands and lips ; the mucous membranes, whether at the exterior or at the interior; the glans penis, the different parts of the vulva, which are placed at the line of junction of these membranes with the skin, are the parts which receive the greatest quantity of nerves, next to the four principal organs of sense. Next come the external muscles,