OF THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. 1G7 ber, however, form acute angles, which are often so in a high de- cree, such, for example, are the spermatic vessels. It ouo-ht to be observed, with reference to the angles which arc .■considered as right, and even as obtuse, that most of them are in re niles eality acute ; but at a small distance from their origin, the brandies, after a short course, change their direction, are reflected, and fol- llow a retrograde course, the reverse of that of the trunk, much in I the same way as the branches of the weeping-willow. There is no general law or rule to be deduced from observation rrespecting the angles which are formed by the divisions of the ves- sels. Thus we see large branches as well as small ones, and branches near the trunk, and its origin, as well as distant ones, coming off' at more or less acute angles. What is true of the large vessels is equally so of the smallest, iin the divisions of which we in like manner generally observe acute ; angles, with some right angles, and even some obtuse ones. 356. The branches of the different parts of the vascular system, ., 'while they divide or ramify in proportion as they recede from the (origin or centre of the system, have yet communications with each jj 1 other or anastomoses. The lymphatic vessels are those which pre- : sent the most numerous anastomoses, the veins have many also, I: and the arteries, although they have fewer, have yet a very great i number. These communications are effected by the meeting and uniting of two vessels of the same kind, and of equal size. In some places, two vessels proceeding obliquely towards each 1 other, unite into a single trunk, which follows a direction interme- diate between those of the original vessels. Of this kind is the union of the two vertebral arteries to form the basilar, that of the anterior spinal arteries, that of the aorta and pulmonary artery in the fetus, that of many veins, &c. The most common mode in which the vessels anastomose, is by forming at their meeting an arch, from the convexity of which issue branches, as is seen in the mesenteric or intestinal vessels, around the joints, in the hand and foot, &c. In other places, two vessels, each pursuing its own direction, communicate by a transverse branch. Of this kind is the commu- nication of the umbilical arteries with each other in the placenta; such are the communications of the arteries of the brain, of the right side with the left, and of the anterior part with the posterior, and such are also those of many veins and arteries of the limbs. In several parts, these communications form circles, or polygons, as the circle of Ridley or Willis, under the brain, those of the iris. and mouth, that which encircles the stomach, &c. In a great many parts, or in nearly all, the vessels which anasto- mose in arches, uniting equally with others coming from branches, some nearer, others more distant from the centre of the vascular system, establish collateral ways for the circulation. Thus, for ex- ample, the circumflex vessels of the hip communicate upwards with the vessels of the trunk, and downwards, with the vessels of the