r li8 OF TIIM SKIN IN GENERAL. bricated scales; but the appearance which has led to this assertion is fallacious ; it eo»sists of a plain and continuous membrane. Nunberger has admitted that it is provided with vessels, and that it is nourished by intus-susception. Mojon, as well as Klinkosch, suppose it possessed of fibres, laminae, vessels, and all the pro- perties of organization and life. Mascagni considers it as being entirely formed of absorbent vessels. Fontana had imagined that he saw contorted vessels in it, but Humboldt found that these alleged vessels are merely folds. The most attentive observation and the most delicate anatomical operations, discover nothing in the epidermis but a homogeneous layer, the adherent surface of which is insensibly blended with the corpus mucosum, and which is destitute of cellular tissue, vessels and nerves. 306. The thickness of the epidermis is very inconsiderable, .scarcely equalling the fifth or sixth part of that of the skin. On the palms and soles it is thicker than anywhere else. In these places, especially in persons who work at mechanical occupations or who walk much, it appears formed of several layers. M. Heu- singer* considers this part of the epidermis as a variety of the horny tissue, and has described it under the name of callous tissue. The epidermis is less elastic than the corium, very flexible, and easily torn. It is transparent, and of a colour slightly tinged with grey. In the coloured races, it partakes of the colour of the skin ; but is less dark than the corpus mucosum. The transparence of the epidermis is not the same throughout; when held between one and the light, it exhibits more transparent points, which have been taken for porosities. 307- It is well known that Leuwenhoeck thought he perceived them, and that he has figured them. Many anatomists after this admitted them upon physiological considerations. But neither the observations of M. Humboldt, made with magnifying instruments of much higher power than those of Leuwenhoeck ; nor those of Seiler, made upon the epidermis, detached witb a razor, from the body of an animal in a state of perspiration ; nor my own, which were made by charging a shred of epidermis with a column of mer- cury of about the weight of one atmosphere, have discovered these porosities. Further, observation apprises us that the epidermis prevents or greatly moderates evaporation in the dead body, and that the parts of the skin from which it is removed dry up, as well as the subjacent parts, with great readiness. However, the epidermis gives passage to the matter which the skin absorbs during life, and certainly those which it excretes. But, what is more surprising still, is that in the observations above-mentioned, there could not even be perceived the apertures of the epidermis which give passage to the hairs, those which correspond to the sebaceous follicles, or even those which were made with a fine needle. It is well known that the same circumstance takes place with respect to elastic gums. System der histologia, von Heusinger, Eisenach, 1822, 4-to.