APPENDIX. 398 pound fracture refutes these theories, which were founded originally on the experiments of Troja and Macdonald. Whilst we admire and praise tlie efforts made hy these and other experimentalists to advance the houndaries of physiological science, it is nevertheless with very painful sensations that their works are perused ; the mind shudders at the revolting tortures uselessly inflicted on the hrute creation, and deeply regrets them. A little reflection on the part of those experiiuen- talists, would have shown how vain, useless, and incorrect must he most conclusions drawn from experiments on pigeons and other ani- mals, belonging to a class so widely different from man. These ex- periments have instructed us in the pathology and physiology of pi- geons and chickens ; they have shown, that after destroying the life of the bone, a new one will he produced; they have even shown more, (thus exceeding the expectation and puzzling the minds of their insli- tutors;) they have demonstrated, that in pigeons new bone is formed when both the original hone and periosteum have been removed; a fact, as Dr. Macdonald observes, very difficult to exjdain. In the experiments which Mr. Cruveilhier says he performed on the rabbit, we find that the periosteum was detached to a great extent from the bone ; that tlu-eads of cotton were introduced between the mem- brane and bone, during all which great violence must have been done to both ; yet the membrane reunited to the bone, which did not in any instance die. Hence we see of how little importance in some of the mammalia is any individual portion of periosteum in supporting the life of the corresponding portion of bone. It seems reasonable that the performing of such experiments should cease. They are generally inapplicable to human physiology and pa- thology, more particularly those made on animals differing so widely in structure and vitality as man and birds. As well might we hope for the regeneration of human limbs after amputation, arguing from the success of a few such experiments on the lower tribes of animals.* Finally, some have imagined that the soft parts generally sur- rounding the bone, reproduced another on the death of the original one ; but I have already shown, that, were this the case, osseous matter ought to be found deposited in various places of the secreting surface, whereas we always find the new osseous secretion to proceed from the nearest healthy portion of the old bone, and from its extremities in those cases where the whole shaft has perished. The manner in which new osseous matter shoots from old bone, ap- pears to me sufficiently simple. The vessels supplying the remaining healthy old bone, whether proceeding to it from the periosteum, sur- rounding soft parts or otherwise, become increased in size, and perhaps in number; granulations arise on the surface, which, by degrees be- coming firm, are afterwards converted into bone. These are found to shoot in various directions, but chiefly downwards and upwards in long bones, often separating widely from the surface of the dead bone, when not retained by careful bandaging. They occasionally stretch across, forming arches, and enclosing the dead portions of the original bone,—an appearance of frequent occiu-rence in compound fractures, by whatever cause occasioned. When arising from a fall or blow, • Dr. Macdonald found, that the most cruel tortures indicted on the extremities of pigeons, in no instance produced the suppurative inflammation. Yet he supposes, or rather asserts, that the vitality of these animals is similar to that of men.