DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFERENCES OF ORGANIZATION. 63 i proportion to the shoulders and chest, of which the latter is short .1 and narrowed. The organs contained in the abdomen are larger, i and those of the chest and neck are smaller, in proportion to the r rest of the body, in the female than in the male. The bones and muscles arc less developed, and the adipose tissue more so ; the general texture of the parts is softer and looser; the hairs are smaller and less numerous. As to the genital organs, the great i differences which they present do not destroy essential analogies. The external characters of the sexes which have just been pointed out, appear to depend especially upon the existence and action of t the ovary in the female, and of the testicle in the male. In the embryo, where the sex is doubtful, there are no appreciable ex- ternal differences. In the fetus and child they begin to exhibit themselves in proportion as the genital organs are developed: it is at puberty that the sexual organs are most distinct, and in old age they again exhibit a less decided character. The want of complete development in the ovaries or testicles, their alteration l by diseases, and their entire removal, also prevent the general i differences of the sexes from assuming their natural character, or i obliterate them in a greater or less degree. The causes of the i difference of the sexes have been supposed by some to exist in an ; alleged predominance of the coagulating principle or of oxygen in the male, and of hydro-carbo-azotic nutritive matter in the female. 111. The human species present hereditary differences of organi- : zation in the races or varieties diffused over the globe, and which may be referred to five, or to three principal kinds, viz. the Cau- > casian, the Mongolian and Ethiopian, and the Malay and American races. 112. The Caucasian race, to which the inhabitants of Europe belong, is remarkable for the beauty of the form and proportions ■ of the head, in which the skull is much larger than the face, of which one may be convinced by simple inspection as well as by i measurement. The skull is rounded and elevated, the face oval, and its parts little protruded. The colour of the skin is generally white and roseate, that of the eyes brown or blue, while the hair, which is generally close, fine and long, varies from flaxen to black. This race is peculiarly characterized by the development of the intellectual faculties, by civilization and the cultivation of philoso- phy, the sciences and arts. The coloured races, on the other hand, are superior to it in the greater perfection of the senses. 113. The Mongolian race is distinguished by the great size of the chest, the smallness of the limbs, the nearly square form of the head and the obliquity of the forehead, the breadth and flatness of the face, the prominence of the cheek-bones, the narrowness and obliquity of the eyes, and the distance at which they are placed from each other. The colour of the skin approaches to olive ; the hair is straight, black and short; the beard thin, and sometimes wanting altogether. 114. The Negro race has the trunk slender, especially at the