APPENDIX. 395 No. IL Observations on the Regeneration of Bone, in Cases of Necrosis and Caries, being a Supplement to a Memoir on the same Subject, inserted in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for January 1822. By R. Knox, M.D., Member of the Wernerian Natural History Society, and of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh. In the observations submitted to the public in January 1822, will be found the brief details of a theory of Necrosis,* or rather of the rege- neration of bone in cases of necrosis, founded on Pathological Ana- totny, and on careful, repeated observations of experiments made by nature herself, daily presenting themselves in surgical practice, but which, from the frecpiency of their occurrence, are generally over- looked. The subject of Necrosis was, as it were, forced on my attention ; for in military hospitals, most cases of fractured limbs, which the surgeon, from a variety of reasons, may have endeavoured to save, become ulti- mately cases of necrosis. In this ample field of observation, I collected, some years ago, most of the facts and cases on which was founded the very simple theory of the regeneration of bone, proposed in the memoir already alluded to. Since the period of its publication, I have exa- mined the Hunterian Museum of London, that belonging to the School of Medicine at Paris, and a collection of pathological anatomy still ex- isting in the Veterinary School at Alfort; and, through the politeness of Sir James M'Grigor, an excellent collection of pathological speci- mens, collected by his care, and placed in the Military Hospital at Chatham. In these anatomical collections exist a few specimens of much interest, two of which I shall describe in the course of this essay; but it may be worth while previously to investigate briefly the history of necrosis, and to inquire into the opinions of very celebrated men, who, in sketching the mode according to which bones grow, and are regenerated, are supposed to have differed so widely from each other. Though we owe to Mr. J. Hunter most of those sound and correct notions on physiology and pathology, which distinguish British surgery from all others, candour obliges me to state, that the observations of Haller, and his pupil Detleff, on the formation of Callus and growth of bones, do not admit of being called in question. With a slight varia- tion in terms, a similar explanation of these phenomena has been of- fered the public in a variety of forms, too numerous to be noticed. In thus admitting the accuracy of Haller and Detleff as observers, we are not bound to put faith in their explanations, nor in the extension of their doctrines to all cases. Thus, though it may be true, that, in the chicken, the periosteum does not contribute towards the formation of bone, we know that it is different with man. In stripping the bones of the human foetus of their periosteum, the most careless observers • It has been usuul for authors to comprehend, under the term Necrosis, the death of a bone and its replacement by a new one. I have already shown, that the rege- neration of bone may or may not take place, and shall therefore continue to employ the term Necrosis, as meaning simply the death of a bone, or of a portion of bone.