OF THE HAIRS. 158 334. The alterations * which are attributed to the nails are, in reality, entirely foreign to them, and depend solely upon the skin by which they are furnished. This is also the case with accidental horny productions. It is in the subjacent tissue that their origin is to be looked for. When a nail is pulled out by violence, or detached by disease from the subjacent skin, it slowly grows again, and differs more or less from the original nail, according as the affection of the skin has continued more or less when it sprouts again. Horny laminae, more or less similar to the nails, form upon ci- catrices, the ends of the toes, and other places exposed to reiterat- ed pressure or friction, of this kind are callosities, lacunas, &c. Ichthyosis, whether simple or in plates, differs from these only in being of greater extent and in its cause being unknown. Corns also consist of accidental horny productions of a rounded form, small, and very hard, and which by the compression trans- mitted by them, irritate, inflame, and sometimes perforate the skin, and even alter the subjacent bones or articulations. Horns, or conical horny productions, more or less elongated, have been frequently observed, from the earliest periods, upon all parts of the skin. Sometimes only one of these excrescences ex- ists on an individual, and is developed either upon a cicatrix, or in a sebaceous follicle, or upon some point of the skin, previously al- tered, or sometimes without any thing particular being observed in the skin previously to the production of the horny substance. At other times, productions of this kind exists in almost all parts of the skin, constituting a kind of ichthyosis. The warts that form on the skin and the poireaux of the mucous membrane, may be compared to accidental horny productions, and regarded as imperfect horny tissue, both kinds participating of the horny and membranous tissues. The nails soften, carnify, become imperfect horny tissue, vege- tate irregularly, present excrescences, become dry, brittle, &c. in certain general or local affections of the skin, as well as from the habitual contact of alkalies, acids, &c. as happens in some trades. They always participate also in the healthy or diseased state of the skin, of which they are productions. When the nail enters the flesh, it only forms a mechanical cause of inflammation of the skin. II. OF THE HAIRS.* 335. The hairs (Pili, Crines,) are horny filaments, generally * Plenck, de Morlis Unguium, in doctrhia dc Morhis Cuianns. + P. Chirac Letter to M. Regis, on the Structure of the Hair, Montpellier, lfiSS. Malpighi, De Pilis Ohservationes in Op. Posth.—Withoff, Anatomc Pili Hnmani. Duisb. 1750, and in Comm. Sue. Scicnt. Gotting. 1753.—J. ft. Kniphof. De PHo- rum Usu. Erf. 1754 Duverney, (Envrcs Anato7ii. Paris, 1761—Albinus, Acad. Annot. lib. iv. cap. ix J. P. Pfaff. De Variet. Pilor. Natural, et Prcctcrnat. Huhi-, 1796 Car. A6m. Rudolphi, Diss, de Pilornm Slruelura. Gryphiswald, 1806—Can- tier L. cit—Heusinger, L.cit. &c.