128 OF THE TEGUMENTAKY MEMBRANES IN GENERAL. teguments, and a difference of* development in that of the excre- tory ducts of the mamma There is moreover a difference of thick ness and colouring in the external skin. These differences arc very decided in the different races of the human species, and are even considerable in individuals. 257. The morbid alterations are very numerous in the different parts of the tegumentary membrane. The accidental production of the cutaneous and mucous membranes are pretty frequent. Re- production of the teguments, or cicatrices, are also of frequent oc- currence. Vices of conformation, alterations of texture and func- tions, accidental productions, similar or not to the sound tissues, transformations of tissue, &c. are also frequently observed in the teguments; but their description will come with more propriety af- ter that of the membranes themselves, which is also to be remark- ed of their alterations in the dead body. 258. The accidental teguments, on the contrary, require to be described here, because, on the one hand, their production presents much similarity in the two kinds of tegument, and on the other hand, because, in the production of an external cicatrix, the new tissue resembles, during a period of its production, the mucous membrane, and at a more advanced period, the skin ; and, lastly, because in some cases the texture and appearance of the skin occur in one part, and that of the mucous membrane in another part of the same production ; as, for example, in the membranes of fis- tulae. Whenever, in consequence of a mechanical lesion, or from the' effect of cauterization, gangrene, or ulceration, there has been de- struction of the teguments and even of the subjacent parts, to a greater or less depth, there is produced a new tegument, similar, or at least very much resembling that which has been destroyed, and always the same in its whole extent, whatever be the diversity of the parts laid bare and which are to be covered by it. After the first phenomena, which vary according to the diversity of the de- structive causes, there presents itself a series of secondary pheno- mena always the same. These are, 1st, The production of a plas- tic layer like that of agglutinations; 2d, The formation of granula- tions, and the secretion of pus; 3dly, The cessation of. this secre- tion and the formation of the cicatrix. The phenomena of cica- trization commence with the deposition of a plastic layer similar to that which constitutes the false membranes. This layer, which is at first inorganic and is presently organized, becomes covered with small conical granulations of a red colour, and then constitutes the membrane of the fleshy granulations. This membrane is cellular, vascular, highly contractile, possessed of sensibility, absorbing, secretes pus, is very readily destroyed by ulceration, and is ouickly reproduced. This membrane continually contracts its di- mensions ; the secretion of pus gradually diminishes and at length • entirely ceases; and it is then covered with a distinct epidermis, or with mucus, according to the place, and constitutes a new te-