in **last of ft 15 VflOBsjijjsj l; 't0 ^% between aatcd and collected into1 at the middle, and fur-; rcTimterencc. The aii- ■vals between the raffiat- aj vascular muc3aginr miter are still very ml ie same mincer as the receded in their forma- itimitel)'tW« ■ [hesc cartilages are i\, present the mM aritembTaneouscan-'' which extendftom sive er as the short Xe< OF THE BONES. 265 inferior maxillar bone, and the middle pieces of the sternum. But 12j several of the median bones also, ossification commences at the uddle, and extends towards the sides, as in the body of the vcr- sbrae, the basilar portion of the occipital bone, the crest of the • thmoid bone, the body of the hyoid bone, and the first and last iLones of the sternum, whether the bone is formed of two lateral cordons at an earlier period, at the period of its conversion into artilagc for example, or whether it be originally single. Many bones, broad as well as short, are formed of several prin- cipal or original points of ossification, which unite more or less Buickly. Frequently these points correspond to distinct bones in thcr genera or classes of animals. Of this kind are the points of ssification of the vertebra?, the occipital bone, the sphenoid bone, ie temporal bone, the maxillary bone, the sternum, the coxal Kjones, the sacrum, &c. There even occurs in the ruminating ani- lals an example of the collateral union of two long bones to form hhe cannon bone. 597- Lastly, a great number of bones, especially of long bones, raid some broad and short bones, have accessory or secondary ooints of ossification, which are called epiphyses* on account of heir being implanted upon the body of the bone, by means of a ;iartilage which lasts for a longer or shorter period. The large BOBg bones of the thigh, arm, leg, and fore-arm, have at least one ipiphysis at each extremity. The clavicle, the metacarpal, metatarsal and phalangeal bones, ave epiphyses at one extremity only. Of the broad bones, the coxal bones, and the scapula? have mar- iinal epiphyses analogous to these terminal epiphyses of the long ,;ones. The ribs have epiphyses at their dorsal extremity, and at lheir tubercle. Of the short bones, the vertebra? are almost the only ones that aave epiphyses ; they have them at the two faces of their body, unci at the summit of all their processes which are not articular, i)f the other short bones, the calcaneum is the only one that has an epiphysis. It is situated at its posterior extremity. The epiphyses begin to form at very different periods, from ilbout fifteen days before birth, to fifteen or eighteen years after, nd remain for a longer or shorter time distinct before uniting with he body of the bone. The periods at which they unite arc com- prehended between the fifteenth and twenty-fifth year. Of all the jfipiphyses, the one which ossifies first, is that of the lower cx- remity of the femur, ossification commencing in it previous to • >i irth ; and it is ohe of the latest in being united to the body of the one. That of the upper extremity of the radius, which is one >ff the last to ossify, is perhaps, on the contrary, the one which is oonest in uniting. • Plainer. Dr Ostium Eflphyitlm, 173G.—Ungcb;mer. Epislola dc O.wum trunci yf.hum. Kiiiphysibus Scro Ossds carundemque Gcncsi. Lips. 1739.—Bcclard, luc. cit.