OF THE BONES. ■eroscopc. ' In the long bones, these canals are longitudinal. They have frequent lateral communications with the great medullary ca- nal, and the outer surface of the bone. They are smaller towards that surface than towards the other. Their mean diameter is the twentieth of a line. The areolar, or spongy substance is that which forms small ca- vities, distinctly visible to the naked eye. This substance presents several varieties, of which the principal are the following :—It ■consists of filaments more or less fine, and of lamina; of a like te- nuity, in the extremities of the long bones, and in the substance of the short bones; of reticulated filaments and laminae at the in- ternal surface of the medullary canal of the long bones ; and of . strong laminae, forming narrow areolae in the broad and thin bones, especially in those of the skull, .'" The two substances, or varieties of the more or less dense tissue of the bones, are arranged in a particular manner in each kind of bone. In the long bones, the body is formed of compact substance, and the inner surface of the canal is bristled with some reticulated fila- ments and lamina.1. Towards the extremities, the compact sub- stance greatly diminishes in thickness, the areolar or spongy sub- stance becomes more and more abundant and fine, the grqat canal ends by becoming continuous with the spongy substance, with which the whole extremity of the bone is filled. In the broad bones, the two surfaces are formed of compact sub- . stance. Wherever the bone is thin, these two laminae touch each other. On the contrary, where it is thick, they are separated by a layer of spongy substance, proportionate to the thickness of the bone. In the bones of the skull, the inner table, which is still denser; but thinner and more fragile than the outer table, bears the name of vitreous lamina, and the spongy substance, that of cliploe. The short bones are formed of spongy substance, surrounded by a layer of compact substance. Lastly, the mixed bones, in the disposition of the two substances participate in the nature of the kinds of bones to which they be- long. The two varieties of tissue, or the two substances of which we have been speaking, are, in reality, one and the same tissue, one and the same substance, differently disposed, rarefied in one part and condensed in the other. A piece of compact substance is ex- actly the same thing as a lamina or a filament of spongy substance. A given longitudinal section of a long bone, contains, to appear- ance, the same quantity, of osseous tissue as another equal longitu- dinal section of the same bone ; but in the one, the substance, or tissue, is condensed, and leaves a large canal in its centre, while in the other, the tissue is rarefied, and the canal replaced by a multi- tudc of spongy areolae. These two substances can be transformed .iulo each other. The essential difference which they present is. sp