5 Thi "Itfl ft. x„^titvcf;> IlBcra|acii,i ^ It has hardly any i we the stranguladtinsr the lacerations of this tnrr, lien fa ami the ligamentous ti«iie > !te, and even fcraiitl k?th. Theiw«»| oes throng excess of | i phenomenon. The* i the same proportioB1 if the distention to; roduceUceniwti, and. ^nae'woiP^,. vinl contractility; nor OF THE LIGAMENTOUS TISSUE IN GENERAL. 229 causes. These causes, on the contrary, dcvelope inflammation, i-morbid sensibility, and various alterations in them. The power of I formation which the ligamentous parts possess is very active. 504. The function of this tissue, which is entirely mechanical, i is that of forming very strong bands, cords, and envelopes, which i.serve to connect the bones together, to attach the muscles to the I.bones, to contain certain parts, to ti'ansmit efforts, &c. 505. The ligamentous tissue is at first, in the embryo, soft and •mucous like all the other parts. During the fcetal life and in '■childhood, it retains a great degree of softness and flexibility. It is then possessed of little consistence, more vascular, of a bluish •white colour, with pearly or silvery lustre, and easily soluble in iboiling water. Some parts, as the meninx, the sclerotica and the periosteum, are thicker than in the adult. The tendons and -aponeuroses on the contrary are thinner and more slender. In •old age, on the other hand, it becomes yellow, less shining, firmer, more coriaceous, drier, less vascular, and less soluble in boiling • water than it was in adult age. Notwithstanding the hardness of the ligamentous system in eld age, it has not a very great tendency to ossify. The tendons ne- ver ossify but in places where they rub, and where they have a fibro-cartilaginous texture, and at their extremity which is inserted iinto the bones. The rare occurrence of ossification of the tendons in old age is so much the more remarkable, that in various ani- mals, as certain birds, insects, and Crustacea, ossification or a si- milar hardening always takes place in the regular development .of .these parts. 506. The different parts of the fibrous system, although suffi- ciently similar to form a genus of organs, are yet not identical. The tissue of the tendons is less compact than that of the ligaments, and that of the cartilaginifbrm ligaments is condensed so as to be al- most homogeneous in appearance. The chemical composition of all these parts is nearly the same. The tendons, however,, yield much more easily to the solvent action of boiling water than .the ■other ligamentous parts. 507- The ligamentous tissue unites after being divided, torn,.or ruptured, as is seen to happen to the ligaments after luxations. The tendo Achillis, or any other large tendon being broken, if the two ends are kept motionless and in contact, there first takes place an agglutination between them, then an organic union, which al- though at first more extensile than the tendon, in course of time acquires its power of cohesion or tenacity, and its almost ^exten- sibility. Fibrous unions take place between the ends of divided •muscles, and sometimes after fractures of the bones. ! 508. The accidental production of the ligamentous tissue is not nnfrcqucnt, and presents itself under various forms. There occur •membranes of this kind around certain cysts which are seldom en- tirely enveloped by them. Certain solid tumours also have envel- •opes of the same kind. Preternatural joints also have more or