198 OF THE ARTERIES. Hastings have seen mechanical irritation produce contraction of the arteries. Zimmermann, Parry, Vcrschuir and Hastings have seen mineral and vegetable acids produce the same effect. Thomson and Hastings have seen it also produced by the action of ammonia. Verschuir, Hunter, and Hastings, have seen the action of air and temperature alone produce this contraction. Hastings has obtain- ed the same effect by applying oil of turpentine, tincture of can- tharides, the solution of muriate of ammonia, and of sulphate of copper. Bikker and Van den Bosch have obtained the contraction of the arteries by electricity; Giulio and Rossi, by galvanism. Home has even observed it to take place on applying alkali upon the nerve approaching an artery. The vital contractility, which but slightly manifests itself in the large arteries, becomes gradual- ly more distinct in the smaller. There may also be adduced, as a proof of the existence of the irritability of the arteries, the increase of their contraction during inflammations and neuralgia?. Thus, in whitlow, angina tonsilla- ris, prosopalgia, &c. the arteries of one side are seen and felt beating much more strongly than those of the other. Differences of the same kind are sometimes seen in hemiplegia. The same thing also takes place in gestation, and in many other sanatory or morbid phenomena, accompanied with a local development of the vessels. It may, therefore, be concluded, from what has been said above, that during life the arteries possess at the same time elasticity and irritability ; that elasticity predominates in the large, and irritabi- lity in the small arteries, and that the irritability of the arteries is more or less subject to the nervous influence. As age advances, the vasa vasorum diminishing, the nerves and arteries being less nourished, and the middle membrane becoming hard, the irritabi- lity of the arteries gradually diminishes, and their elasticity itself is at length greatly impaired. 422. The sensibility of the arteries either does not exist, or is extremely obscure. Verschuir mentions only a single experiment in which an animal appeared to suffer pain from the application of a mineral acid. According to Bichat, the injection of an irritating fluid also appears to produce intense pain. 423. The office of the arteries is to lead the blood from the heart into all the parts of the body. When the ventricles of the heart, by contracting, impel a new quantity of fluid into the arteries al- ready full of blood in motion, the velocity of the motion is in- creased in all the arteries. This is proved by the observation of an arterial wound. Another generally admitted effect of the sys- tole of the ventricles, is the dilatation of the arteries. Experi- ments have been adduced in support of this dilatation, while other interesting experiments made by Dr. Parry seem to contradict it. It really exists, however, although it is very inconsiderable. Ano- ther more sensible effect, produced by each systole, is the elonga- tion of the arteries. The action exercised by the arteries for pro-