OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. 180 appear to be, like those of exhalation, the porosities of the solid and permeable substance of the body. However, absorption, just like secretion, is an organic and vital phenomenon altogether dif- ferent from imbibition in the dead body, as is demonstrated by the selection of the substances absorbed, and the modifications which the activity of absorption in various cases presents. When, in this work, the expression absorbent vessels is employed, it is to de- signate by a single word the unknown passages by which foreign substances enter, and those by which the matters of the intrin- sic absorptions pass into the circulatory apparatus. 394. Imagination has not stopped at the creation of exhalent and inhalent vessels, of which we have been speaking ; there have also been imagined nutritious vessels. The following are the principal opinions which have been form- ed on this subject. Boerhaave and R. Vieussens having ad- mitted colourless and decreasing vessels, the former construct- ed of vessels, all the parts of the body, even those which cannot be injected. According to Boerhaave's system, the smallest elementary fibres would form minute membranes, rolled upon themselves, to form the smallest nervous vessels. From these smaller vessels would result the vascular membranes forming larger vessels, and so on to the largest vessels. He also determined that the smallest nervous vessels contain an aqueous fluid serving for feeling, motion, and at the same time nutrition. Mascagni's opinion as to the elementary composition and the nu- trition of parts does not differ much from that of Boerhaave. Ac- cording to Mascagni, the divisions of the arteries finish at the point where, on having arrived at the tenuity of a red globule of the blood, they change into veins. There they are furnished with ex- halent porosities, as well for the secretions as for nutrition. In all parts there are orifices of absorbent vessels for taking up and con- taining the nutritious molecules. The elementary parts consist of absorbent vessels. These, by their union, constitute the most simple and smallest blood-vessels, which form more compound membranes. In these two hypotheses, every thing is vascular, and nutrition takes place in the vessels; in the first, in the finest ramifications of the capillary arteries, in the second, in the finest radicles of the absorbent vessels. In both, the mass of the body is in the vessels, and in a real state of continual circulation. Bichafs opinion respecting the nutritious vessels and nutrition is somewhat different. According to him, each molecule of the organs is in a manner placed between two open-mouthed vessels, the one nutritive exhalent which had deposited it, the other nutri- tive absorbent destined to take it up again. Prochaska, while he admits the direct continuity of the arteries and Veins, supposes that it is by the porosity of the walls of the vessels and the general permeability of the substances which forms the mass of the body, that nutrition takes place.