'J 15 OF THE AltTICULAU CARTILAGES. i forehead a broad conical horny excrescence which grew upon the cicatrix of a burn, having died, the bones of the skull were found tto be transformed into cartilages under this horn. M. Laennec ssaw a cartilaginous transformation of the mucous membrane of the mrethra. I have seen the same thing in the vagina, in a case of {prolapsus uteri, and in the prepuce, in the case of congenital phy- limosis, in an old man. I am at the same time of opinion that these tthree cases belong rather to the desmo-cartilaginous productions. 552. Alterations of the cartilages * are rare and most commonly onsecutive. They resist for a very long time the destructive ac- 'e very ^ ,! tiion of aneurismal tumours, and the propagation of diseases of the , Cat*%5; neighbouring organs. The alterations to which they are subject, y present all thp ^ 5anf* tne reparation of their injuries, are somewhat different in the 'TJn- different kinds of this tissue. ' aorta and cerebral ar. bid productions andace-"j lie lungs, undertbeform:, se which present the can. j its firmness. Theyoc., iteolhe. They are. !, of'moderate size, and ies, or at their exrerior, \t as'mlhefeoercf a mated, is cut art, commeni f tunia H the 1 or 1 j0 1$ 1 SECTION II. OF THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF CARTILAGES. 553. The cartilages may be divided into three principal kinds, with reference to their form, their connexions, their texture, their properties, and their functions. ARTICLE I. I. OF THE ARTICULAR CARTILAGES. 554. The diarthrodial articular cartilages -f are flat and broad aartilaginous laminae, which invest or incrust the surfaces of the nes in the moveable articulations. These laminae have a free rface, covered by the synovial membrane which is closely attach- to it, and a surface which also adheres intimately to the surface f the bone, without a continuity of tissue however existing be- een them. Their circumference, which is thinner than the rest, ixxtends to that of the articular surfaces of the bones. Their Inickness, which is inconsiderable and proportionate to their breadth, 1 from one to two lines in the largest, and a fraction of a line in le smallest. It is not the same in the whole of their extent. Those which invest convex bony surfaces are thicker at the centre, nan in the rest of their extent. Those of the concave surfaces, iin the contrary, are thicker at the circumference than at the i3ntre. '* DcErner, preside Autenritth, De gravioribus qnibusdam cartilaghium mulaiioni~ ImI—Tubing. 1798. ''t W. Hunter. Of the Structure and Diseases of Articulating Cartilages, in Philos. Wans. 17 tli.—Dclasohe, Sur F'Organisation des Os, in Mem. de I'Acad, des Sc. Paris, ^52. J