100 OF TIIK SEROUS .MEMBRANES. contributes to this augmentation of volume, is the sliding of which the membrane is susceptible, the kind of locomotion which it under- goes when it is distended only in one part of its extent, as is par- ticularly seen in hernia;. Lastly, there appears in some cases to be a real augmentation of nutrition, which also contributes to the production of this phenomenon. This increase of substance, along with the other causes of distension, is manifest in gestation, for ex- ample. These phenomena are not equally marked in the different species of serous membranes. The peritoneum presents them in the highest degree ; they are much less distinct in the synovial membranes, especially those of the joints, which depends on the one hand upon the circumstance that these membranes are less ex- tensile, and also upon that of their having fewer folds, and on the other, and more especially, upon the circumstance that their con- nexions do not permit to be so easily displaced. When the dis- tension ceases, the membranes gradually return to their original state ; but if it has been carried so far as to produce separation there always remain traces of it. 189. The formative force, although considerably developed in the serous membranes, is yet less so in them than in the free cellu- lar tissue. Mobility is very limited in them, existing only in the lesser degree which constitutes tonicity. But if irritation does not determine appreciable motions in them, it dcvelopes sensibility, in fact, these membranes become very sensible, and generally transmit painful sensations, in inflammation. 190. All the serous membranes are the seat of a continual depo- sition and resorption of the serous fluid in their cavity, or at their free and contiguous surface. The great extent uf these membranes viewed as a whole, gives a great importance to this twofold func- tion. The matter of this secretion is, like all the others, carried by the vessels into the substance of the membrane, and especially into the most vascular part, the fringed prolongations. It is not yet precisely known in what way the secreted matter issues from the vessels and passes into the cavity. All these membranes have been supposed to have secreting glands, whether in their vicinity, or in their substance itself, but these alleged glands have no existence. Transudations by means of inorganic pores have also been suppos- ed ; but although we do not exactly know the mode in which the perspiratory secretions takes place, we know that transudations take place only in the dead body, and that not until some time after death. The fluid is also continually absorbed by the membrane, in the substance of which it enters into the vessels. So long as the deposition and resorption are in exact equilibrium, the serous membranes are merely moistened at their surface. An increase of secretion, or a diminution of absorption, gives rise to an accumula- tion which is called dropsy. The secreted fluid has local and general uses. Locally it serves to maintain the separation of the two contiguous lamina; of the serous membranes, and to facilitate the motions of the or- gans upon each other, and viewed in a general sense, it is probable