OV THE GANGLIA AND SYMPATHETIC NEKVE. 805 inrr wiUi more difficulty than the white the impressions and irrita- tions. M. Weber has brought together numerous anatomical and phy- siological arguments to demonstrate that the sympathetic nerve constitutes a particular system, which is independent of the brain, and has its centre in itself. M. Wutzer has observed, as Bichat and others have also done-, that mechanical irritation of the sympathetic nerve produces no applicable effect, while a more powerful irritant, as the galvanic agent, causes pains and convulsions. M. Broussais also considers the intercostal nerves as a system by itself, a particular centre of sensation, which transmits impressions to the animal sensorium, and consequently determinations to the voluntary muscles. In the foetus it alone acts, it directs the se- creting and nutritive organs, excites the energy of the heart, ex- tends its action to the animal centre, and determines the automatic motions. In anencephalous fetuses, and such as want the spinal marrow, it excites the muscular motion by its action upon the spinal nerves. After birth it acts upon the nervous centre, trans- mitting to it the internal sensations, and thus establishes between the brain and the viscera of the other two cavities a connexion which gives rise to numerous phenomena. At all periods it regu- lates the action of the capillary vessels, and directs the nutrition through the medium of the formative or plastic force, which this ingenious writer calls the chemistry of living bodies. 815. Nearly all these opinions, which consist in considering the system of ganglia as an independent system, err in being too ab- solute, just as those do who see nothing in the ganglia but a mere anatomical arrangement. The system of ganglia must be .considered at one and the same time as a separate or united, an independent or dependent system, according to various circum- stances which have already for the most part been pointed out. The functions of the ganglia appear to be to diminish or arrest the influence of the nervous centre upon the ganglionary nerves, and to diminish or prevent the transmission of impressions to the centre, so that, by the action of the ganglia, the vegetative nervous system is separated from the animal system. The ganglia, moreover, appear destined to collect and concentrate the nervous power, which they derive from the spinal marrow, and to develope it of themselves, for the purpose of communicating it suitably to the nerves and organs in which they terminate. The ganglia exercise different functions, according to the diver- sity of their texture. These differences consist in, 1st, The more or less intimate mix- ture of the medullary filaments; 2dly, The diversity of the se- condary substance; 3dly, The differences in the external mem- brane, according as it is more or less dense, or more or less tense. Now it is in the ganglia of the sympathetic nerve that we observe the greatest blending and intermixture of the medullary filament';,