OF THE SPLANCHNIC SEROUS MEMBRANES. 116 converted into a fungous substance from which vegetations sprout up until they reach the skin, and even protrude externally. Rci- rnarus, Brambilla and Brodie have described these carcinomatous fungi. 220. Foreign bodies sometimes form in the joints. The knee- joint is the most frequent scat of these formations. The volume of these bodies varies, as well as their number and consistence, as we have already said when treating of the serous system in gene- ral. They form externally of the synovial membrane, and appear to be the result of a particular alteration of the nutrition. They gradually make their way to the inner side of the membrane, and at length become entirely detached from it according to the me- chanism described above. Their presence, which is accompanied by severe pains when they get between the articular surfaces, scarcely produces any inconvenience when they are lodged in places possessed of mobility, or where the articulation is loose. Depressions varying in depth are sometimes ultimately produced by the pressure which they exercise upon the cartilages, and as these depressions correspond in their form to that of the bodies which are lodged in them, this circumstance has caused them to be attributed to pieces of cartilage that have been separated by exter- nal violence ; but to be convinced of the inaccuracy of this opi- nion it is sufficient to consider that these depressions do not exist in the greater number of cases in which foreign bodies occur, that thev in no degree resemble the surfaces of a fracture, and that the bodies are much thicker than the articular cartilage. ARTICLE IV. OF THE SPLANCHNIC SEROUS MEMBRANES. 221. The serous membranes properly so called, which have: also been named transparent membranes, are those which line the splanchnic cavities, and which furnish more or less complete coats to the viscera situated in these cavities. 222. These membranes, like all the other serous membranes, were long confounded, whether in the healthy or in the diseased state, with the organs which they envelope, and the parts to which they furnish a covering, and were described along with them. Each of these membranes, however, had been correctly described, in the former state, independently of the parts which they cover ; and some anatomists, as Monro, had even pointed out their gene- ral similarity. With reference to pathology, Sauvages and Pmel established an order of inflammation for those of the transparent membranes ; but they concluded with inflammation of the stomach, intestine, bladder, and omentum, as forming so many genera. V a- rious observations of pathological anatomy, and especially those ot J E Walter respecting peritonitis, had shown that this membrane, •