LIFE OF BECLARU. XI11 fetus exercises respiratory motions in the uterus, from which results the introduction of the water of the amnios into the bronchi. At the same time he did not succeed in demonstrating that this water has a chemical action on the blood which penetrates into the lungs. It was also at the same period that he made, in conjunction with Le- gallois, a series of curious experiments, with the view of determining the action of the oesophagus in vomiting. In 1813, Beclard presented before the faculty of Paris his thesis for obtaining the degree of doctor in medicine. It was composed of several propositions, which treat, 1st, Of the distinction to be established between the laminar tissue and adipose tissue ; 2dly, Of the prominences and depressions of the bones, which he considers as resulting from the original disposition of the cellular frame work of the bone, and not from the action of the muscles which are attached to it. Other subjects already mentioned are reproduced in this thesis, which terminates with a learn- ed interpretation and practical consideration^ respecting the method which Celsus proposed for the operation of lithotomy. His talents as a surgeon had already been justly appreciated, and during the first invasion in 1814, he was sent by the government to assist the wounded at the ambulance established in the hospital St. Louis. It was in 1815, that the memoir on acephalous monsters ap- peared. Beclard also made known at this period several facts on pathological anatomy, which he had collected in the apartments of the dissecting rooms. A vacancy took place in the situation of second sur- geon to the Hotel Dieu. For the first time Beclard was unsuccessful, M. Marjolin having obtained the appoint- ment. However, as the two competitors had disputed the palm with nearly equal merit, Beclard was named surgeon of the Hospital de la Pitie. He had already ac- quired experience in the art of Pare and J. L. Petit under a master who loved him, and with whom he was shortly after connected by more intimate affections. Dubois had