2 c APPENDIX.* No. I. Observations and Cases, illustrative of the Pathology and Treatment of Necrosis.\ It has been long known, that when a bone dies, or becomes necrosed, a process is begun by the constitution to repair the loss; new bone is formed, and deposited in the manner best calculated to support the limb or parts diseased: and, when the bones of an extremity are im- plicated in the disorder, the limb preserves its strength, and, tbough somewhat unshapely, is sufficient for the ordinary purposes of locomo- tion. This very beautiful and wonderful process, viz. the regeneration of bone, has for manyyears engaged the attention of pathologists and phy- siologists. Theories sufficiently ingenious have been devised, and, to con- firm these, numerous experiments performed on living animals,—man him- self not escaping. Some of the works written on necrosis and regenerat- ed bone, I know only by report, and at second-hand; but the general conclusion from all has uniformly seemed to be, that the principal agent employed by nature in the formation of new bone, is the periosteum,—at least this was the opinion of all the practical surgeons, (and they are not few) with whom I have had an opportunity of conversing on the sub- ject. It has occasionally happened, that their notions were not exceed- ingly clear: some fancying that the periosteum, in cases of necrosis, is converted into a large compact osseous case; others entertaining similar opinions, though not so coarsely expressed. The process is thus de- scribed by a very ingenious author. " Necrosis is generally the result of disease in the soft parts ; and, where the necrosed portion is of con- siderable extent, especially where the affection takes place in a cylin- drical bone, it gives rise to a carious action in the periosteum. A de- gree of excitement arises, producing a secretion of ossific matter, which is deposited in the cellular tissue of the membrane; and, as the quan- tity of ossific matter increases, the cellular texture in which it was laid is progressively removed by absorption ; so that, after some time, there is the appearance of a strong and compact frame-work of new bone, more or less completely enveloping the old bone." " From the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. •f My views as to the regeneration of bone have been so much misunderstood, and at times have been intentionally so grossly misrepresented, that I thought it but doing myself justice to reprint them here, under the form of an Appendix.