LLl'E OF BECLAMX the parotid gland; and, lastly, he very advantageously modified Celsus's mode of operating for the stone. His vast erudition extended equally into the domain of surgery. In the lectures which he gave at the Hos- pital de la Pitie he developed the most extensive and the most solid information. Those who have only heard his course of surgery, and who did not disdain to assist at the operations which he performed in too obscure a theatre, could at least but consider him as a man highly conversant with surgical literature. In fact, the talent with which he exposed and commented upon the theories of men who have written on this branch of the art of healing has always been admired. It were useless to seek here to clear Beclard of the reproach which was cast upon him as being a surgeon only in theory. Let us re- frain from mingling with the pleasure which we feel in tracing the picture of the merits and talents of this ex- cellent man, the bitter remembrance of the ridiculous hatreds and envies of which he was the object. Beclard's reputation as a lecturer daily increased. He possessed the very rare faculty of exposing with order, clearness, and simplicity, all that his immense memory brought to his mind. He knew especially how to clothe his ideas in suitable words, and to construct his sentences with admirable order. He preferred accuracy and viva- city of expression to elegance. His speech was not gar- nished with metaphors, but he developed his ideas by a gradation of words, rising above each other in clearness and precision, so that his last expression, always stronger and more energetic, left the image of the object or idea deeply impressed upon the mind of the hearer. As he prepared his lectures carefully, and with long study, at- tained a profound knowledge of the matter which he treated before his pupils, and was always master of his subject, he pursued his descriptions in an imperturbable manner. Continually adding to his acquired knowledge the fruit of his own reflections, he interested and enticed