90 OF THE COMMON ADIPOSE TISSUE. cess of hydrogen, thought it destined to render the nutritious sub- stance more azotic, by depriving it of a part of its hydrogen. Se- veral authors, and Bichat himself is much of the same opinion, have imagined that the fat might serve to oil the skin by a kind of transudation through its pores; but the sebaceous follicles are now too well known to permit us to adopt this idea. The general uses of the fat are connected with nutrition. The nutritive mat- ter, before being assimilated, passes successively through various states ; and the fat is one of the forms which it assumes. Further, this fluid may be considered as an alimentary substance kept in re- serve, of which various examples are seen in animals. Insects, for example, are nourished on their fat before assuming their perfect state, and present the same phenomenon a short time previous to their death. This circumstance is still more distinctly seen in the hibernating animals which sleep during the winter, and live ex- clusively on their fat until the period of their revival, when they are very thin. The foetuses of the ovipara are nourished by the fat, which forms a large proportion of the yelk. 168. The adipose tissue and the fat, besides the varieties of which we have spoken, present some morbid alterations. When the adipose tissue is divided, little drops of oil escape from it, and if the lips of the wound are kept together, they soon unite ; but the fat does not appear again in the place where the union is effected, unless when the new cellular tissue has ceased to be com- pact. The adipose tissue when laid bare becomes inflamed, and the fat is absorbed. It is then covered with a layer of organize- able matter, which becomes the basis of the cicatrix, or new skin, which forms over the fat. This tissue and the fat which it contains, sometimes accumulate in very great quantities, as is seen in obesity or polysarcia. Indi- viduals in this state have been found to weigh from five to six and even eight hundred pounds. When the obesity is local, or con- fined to a part of the body, it takes the name of lipoma.* This affection may have its seat almost anywhere ; it is, however, more commonly observed beneath the integuments, and on the outside of the serous membranes. Tumours of this kind, situated beneath the skin, have been erroneously confounded with encysted tumours. Their form is roundish ; and when very large, they raise and car- ry with them the skin, when they become pedicellate or pyriform. Tumours of this description have been seen, which weighed from forty to fifty pounds. At the outside of the serous membranes, their figure is commonly ovoidal. One of their extremities is at- tached to the membrane, the other approaches the skin. At the exterior of the peritonaeum, this tumour constitutes the adipose hernia or liparocele. The lipoma has a structure similar to that of fat. According to Monro, the vesicles in it are of the same size * See Ths. Ch. Bigot, Dissert, sur les tumeurs graissatscs extcrkurcs au peritoine, &c. Paris, 1821.