174 OF THE TERMINATION OF THE VESSELS.^ or those which have nothing similar in the organism, are, on the contrary, generally destitute of vessels. The latter form, in the cases of which we speak, as in the embryo. The mass in which they form is at first without vessels, and most commonly consists of a coagulated fluid, in which isolated vesicles present themselves, which, by uniting, form canals "without distinct and proper walls. These vessels afterwards communicate with those of the neighbour- ing organs. They sometimes remain for a greater or less time, or even always, different from the natural or original vessels, both in their mode of division, and especially in the absence or thinness and softness of their walls. In many cases, on the other hand, the new vessels ultimately acquire a texture precisely similar to that of the other vessels. 372. Of the alterations to which the vessels are~subject, some are common to the three species, of which kind are dilatation or angiectasy and wounds. Others are peculiar to each species in particular. The former even present differences in each species sufficient to render it preferable to speak of them apart. ARTICLE II. OF THE TERMINATION OF THE VESSELS. 37«3. The termination of the vessels, Fines Vasoruni, are the last ramuscules of the arteries and the first radicles of the veins and lymphatics. Their knowledge is one of the points of minute ana- tomy that have most exercised the patience of observers, and the imagination of etiologists, who have, with some appearance of rea- son, imagined that they discovered in it the secret of most of the functions and diseases. 374. In almost all parts of the body the termination of the ves- sels are ramuscules or radicles of a more than capillary minute- ness, and which can be perceived only with the aid of the micro- scope. In some parts these terminations, but especially the radi- cles of the veins, present more width and an erectile disposition which renders them susceptible of undergoing a greater or less ex- pansion. Lastly, in certain parts, the termination of the vessels, by their being mingled and communicating with each other, con- stitute ganglia or particular vascular conglomerations. 1. OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. The capillary or microscopic vessels,* Vasa capillaria, so named on account of their minuteness, are much finer than hairs, and cannot be perceived with the naked eye. Although the radi- • Prochaska, De Vaiii Sanguin. Capill, in Op. Cit.