122 OF THE TEGUMENTARY MEMBRANES IN GENERAL. ther at the interior or at the exterior of the body. They are also called compound villous or follicular membranes, on account of thG numerous parts which enter into their composition, and in particu- lar on account of the follicles which they contain. Next to the cellular tissue, of which they are a more or less compbeated modi- fication, they constitute the tissue or organ most extensively diffus- ed in the animal kingdom. They are the first parts of the embryo that present themselves under a distinct form ; it is upon them and by them that all the rest of the body is formed; in health and dur- ing life, they are the organs of the most essential functions ; it is in them and by them that all extrinsic absorption and secretion are performed; it is upon them that all foreign substances make im- pression ; they are often altered in diseases ; lastly, it is upon them that most therapeutic agents are applied. Their study is there- fore of great importance to the physician. 239. Galen* had observed that besides the external skin which is the common tegument of all the parts, there is a thin and mem- braniform skin which covers the internal parts.-j- Several anatomists had pointed out the continuation of the skin into some of the na- tural cavities, and the resemblance of the mucus to the epidermis.\ Bonn|| had described in detail the continuation of the skin into the internal membrane in all the apertures and cavities. The zooto- mists and naturalists had also observed it, as well as the similarity which exists between these two parts of the same membrane in the interval of which all the rest of the body is placed. Bichat has particularly insisted upon this continuity. M. J. B. Wilbrand§ has recently made a detailed exposition of the cutaneous or tegumen- tary system in all its divisions. M. Hebreard^[ has described the transformation of the skin into mucous membrane, and vice versa. 240. The tegumentary membranes have in their whole extent common characters, which it is necessary first to expose; but ac- cording to differences in their situation, their texture, and their functions, they are distinguished into two parts, which it will be ne- cessary to describe separately afterwards; these two parts are the mucous membrane and the skin. SECTION FIRST. OF THE TEGUMENTARY MEMBRANES IN GENERAL. 241. The Teguments, whatever may be their extent and their apparent multiplicity, form one and the same membrane, every- • On the Therapeutic Method, L. xiv. chap. 2. ■f Casserius. i'entacstheseion, hoc ed, de quinquc sensibus Kbcr. \ Glisson, Be Gula. || Dc Continualhnibut Membranarum. § Das haulsystcm in alien seitten verzxtxigungen, anatomisch, pliysiol. und pathul. dar- gestellt. Giessen, 1813. 5[ Mcmoiresnr Vanalogic qui cxistecnlrc les systcmcs muqucnx cl dcrmu'idc ; Mem. dc la Sue. Med. d'Emulation. Vol. viii. p. 153.