SPA C/F THE NERVOUS SYSTEM/ imof lire '^'apointtf c. ullatyoT cmeritfous,! ind viscous substance, kvolumebthebrain, in tilt brain, and the. heaped together A :ranged in linear seriet ; are contained, it id :he brain, more so ii tarn. Ttefi- [ Aliretumish-- ie artena\b\ood,pio- a centre, to M LuxfroTQ the braintj iUX from the organs * «slice of a«" the bloo^ ^ ,. po^f 10'* '^lioV • tartly by prolongations of the envelope of the nervous system. The lobules appeared to him to differ in volume in the same part of the ystem. He estimates the volume of those of the brain and cerc- nellum at about one-eighth of that of the globules of the blood. A.s 00 the situation of the globules themselves, the most powerful mi- rroscopes afford no information on the subject Barba observed the globules, and found no difference between he substance which connects them in the different parts of the ner- cous system. The brothers Wenzell have added some observations to the pre- ceding. They found the nervous substance every where formed of rllobules, which they consider as vesicles filled with medullary or irineritious substance, according to the parts. The globules seem to led in contact or to adhere to each other, and nothing is perceived ic-etween them. This globular appearance remains unaltered by de- iiccation, or the action of alcohol, whether pure or acidulated. Messrs. Home and Baur have published two different results of microscopical observations. According to their lirst researches, he brain when fresh is composed of fibres formed by the union of globules of a diameter about the same as those of pus. According >o their new observations, the nervous substance is composed of eemi-transparent white globules, of which some are of the size of hhose which form the nucleus of the coloured particles of the lond, the others smaller ; of gelatinous substance, transparent and looluble in water, and of a fluid resembling the serum of the blood. Hhe proportion of these three parts, the globules, the jelly, and lie serum, as well as the Volume of the globules, give rise to the rincipal differences which the nervous system presents. The rey substance presents few distinct uniglobular fibres, but is )tmed especially of very small globules. The gelatinous sub- ttance and serous fluid are very abundant in it. The medullary sub- :.tance of the hemispheres of the brain and cerebellum contains lore distinct and more abundant fibres, formed of linear series of listinct globules. The greater part of the globules of which they rre composed are of a larger diameter. The gelatinous substance 55 more tenacious and in less proportion than in the grey substance. 7he Corpus callosum and rachidian bulb especially have globules of mean diameter; the gelatinous substance and the serum are more abundant than in the hemispheres, and the former is less onacious. In the nerves there are found globules of all the dia- leters united into fibres, and these into bundles. The gelatinous matter in question occurs also in the blood, where it serves as a connecting medium to the particles of the colouring matter which mrrounds the globules. M. H. M. Edwards* is at this moment publishing microscopical Ibservations according to which the nervous substance of the ence- ' Memoirc sur la structure fihhnentairc des pritichaux tissus organiqucs des animaux, mete. Paris, 30, Juillct 1823