4*th «te an) Slil). essottkeir «W articiilatioDS, They rar% are prod n • ^-ges is sometime» ion; onhthmmi p. to"' (faer, hs j ing to its semirnnspar. ;ee, aid extend overlie1 itb various other altera-' imes found converted , laid tare in ampu* intcntioD, the wrtflagj but remain tree jfitinilaii!«3L lift*- but >' ^ I* ;„vo^! OF THE COSTAL AND LARYNGEAL CARTILAGES. 247 jjects, or before middle age. It is accompanied by a pain, which is at first slight, but which gradually increases in intensity. When tthe ulceration stops and heals, there takes place a reproduction of t cartilage, of which we have already spoken, or a bony production tof the nature of ivory or enamel, or, lastly, a union of the surfaces by ianchylosis. In the case of true anchylosis, the cartilages are al- iways absorbed. 557. The cartilages of the synarthrodial articulations, are ex- itremely thin lamina;, placed between the bones which are articu- llated in an immoveable manner, and holding firmly on each side to I these bones by a kind of suture. Their edges, in the interval 1 between the bones, are intimately attached to external and inter- nal periosteum, which passes from the one to the other bone. They thus greatly contribute to the solidity of these articulations. ' These cartilages, in the sutures of the skull, are thinner at the in- • terior than at the exterior of the wall, which in part accounts for 1 the quicker disappearance of the sutures at the interior than at the 1 exterior of the skull. With respect to the frequency of their ossi- 1 fication, they are intermediate between the temporary and the per- : manent cartilages. ARTICLE II. OF THE COSTAL, LARYNGEAL, AND OTHER CARTILAGES. 558. The costal cartilages * are the longest and thickest carti- lages of the body. They constitute cartilaginous prolongations to the bony ribs. The first of them may also be considered as ante- rior or sternal cartilaginous ribs. The cartilages are all attached to the anterior extremities of the ribs by engrenure, like the synar- throdial cartilages. The first is even continuous with the sternum at the other extremity. The next six are articulated with the Sternum by diarthrosis. The three following are in the same manner articulated with those which precede them. The last two are immersed in the intermuscular cellular tissue. 559. The texture of these cartilages is very obscure, and at first sight they appear homogeneous. However, by maceration pro- longed for at least six months, the costal cartilages divide into oval lamina? or plates, separated from each other by circular or spiral lines, and united together by some oblique fibres which they send into each other. These laminae are themselves divided into radi- ated fibrils, and the fibrils at length into minute bundles, which are at length reduced into mucous substance. All these divisions or separations are first produced at the circumference of the carti- lage. The centre is more homogeneous, and is the last part that divides. This separation may be accelerated by drying in the sun • Hfirissant, &ug la structure des cartilage* des cites de Momma et du cheval, in Mom. de ) neat), des sc., 1748.