169 OF THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. Si to s i i ITeiym,, | * o! lie tooted, Kit mi after the tod, tie =1 The vessels of the spleen, those of the brain, and the spermatic weins are also very flexuous, without however appearing to be so i:br a similar reason. The flcxuosities of the blood-vessels are more marked than those oof the lymphatic vessels, and those of the arteries are greater than tthose of the veins. 358. The symmetrical disposition of the vessels is very imper- tifect, and does not exist in their central parts. They are nearly -symmetrical in such of their divisions as belong to symmetrical [parts, and unsymmetrical in those which belong to parts destitute oof symmetry. This disposition is common to all the vessels, to tthe lymphatics and veins as well as to the arteries. In certain .animals and in the embryo, the vascular system is more symme- ttrical than in the adult man. Besides the general defect of sym- nmetry, the vascular system is subject to many irregularities in its cldistribution. 359. The walls of the vessels are connected by their external ssurface. which is flocculent, with the mass of the body in which tthey are ramified. Their internal surface is smooth, polished, sshining, humid, and in contact with the circulating humours. It (presents projecting heels wherever the branches form acute angles vwith the trunks. The walls have a thickness, which, with relation tto the volume of the vessel, increases from the trunks towards the iramitications. The cavity of the vessels, as has already been said, ((§ 354.) of the vessels themselves, presents an exact cylindrical tform in each division, the form of a decreasing cone as we proceed tfrom the trunk towards the last divisions, and that of an increasing i cone, from the trunk toward the branches, taking the latter in their : aggregate. 360. The texture of the vessels results, more or less distinctly, tfrom several superimposed layers. The internal membrane is thin, whitish, more or less transpar- i ent, uniform, without apparent fibres, continuous throughout, but i different in the arteries and veins. It bears a great resemblance to i the serous membranes. It is moistened by a fluid, the source of • which is not well known. It forms, in the different species of ' vessels, a greater or less number of valves or folds so disposed as to allow a passage to the humours in the direction of the circula- I tion, and to oppose their passing in the opposite direction. The outer membrane, which must not be confounded with the i cellular sheath that loosely surrounds the vessels, is thicker than the inner, fibro-cellular, and generally formed of filaments having an oblique direction with reference to that of the vessels, and in- terlaced with each other. Between these two membranes there is observed another of a fibrous structure, which is distinctly developed in all the arteries that can be submitted to dissection, as well as the large veins. 361. The outer membrane of the vascular system, and especial- or. w,in •mi that don, in lirectk >ove and repletion e arteries the pre- ;. aw oi boot the ; the ves-