897 APPENDIX. the periosteum and soft parts, and hence arises a tumour perceivable externally. A coagulable matter (which I suppose to be the same witli that described by Hunter, Haller, and others,) is effused in abun- dance under, and in the tissue of the periosteum, which, as they say, finally become osseous, prior to the conversion into bone of the re- maining coagulable fluid occupying the space between the fractured extremities. But the fact is, that there is an affected nicety of des- cription in all this, a distinction without a difference, and an effort made to conceal, by the employment of vague and novel terms, the close resemblance of the description to that of former physiologists. The more external parts of the effused fluid, which is afterwards to be converted into bone, will naturally ossify first, since the periosteum and surrounding soft parts will speedily heal and re-establish the con- tinuity of the vessels; whilst the portion of fluid situated betwixt the fractured extremities of the bones, will longer retain the semi-carti- laginous state. Again, the external part will pass almost at once from the semi-fluid to the osseous state, because vessels containing red blood pass readily to it from the neighbouring soft parts; whereas the deeper seated effused lymph will have its vitality supported at first by vessels containing colourless fluids only, and which admit of red blood, and, consequently, of ossification only at an after period. Thus, we find, on a careful analysis, that there is nothing either in- teresting or novel in these pretended researches into the healing of fractured bones, nothing which had escaped the notice of preceding ages. In the regeneration of osseous matter, which accompanies the death of the bone in necrosis, many have supposed that the processes em- ployed by nature were entirely different from those employed in re- uniting compound and simple fractures. They adopted the opinions of an ingenious theorist, Duhamel, and have maintained them with ex- treme obstinacy, though there probably does not exist in the world a pathological specimen in the least confirmative of so false a theory. It cannot be necessary to notice here, at any length, the opinions which have arisen out of the experiments of Duhamel and a few other experimental physiologists. They seem reducible to the following heads, viz. Those who maintain that the new bone, in cases of necrosis, is form- ed between the layers of the periosteum, an opinion most amply refut- ed by an examination of numerous pathological pieces, in which the periosteum was stripped off the new bone, without there adhering to it a single osseous particle ; and by the uniformly observed fact, that the osseous granulations in necrosis arise from the surface or edge of that portion of old bone still remaining alive, and in no instance from the periosteum or soft parts. The experiments, moreover, of Dr. Macdonald, * show, that in pigeons, the internal periosteum is not formed till after the formation of the new osseous tube. Others affirm, that the new osseous tube is formed by the vessels of the periosteum; that these secrete bony matter on the surface of the periosteum, which matter afterwards constitutes the tube destined to contain the dead bone and support the limb. But a single case of com- * Disputatio Inauguralis De Necrosi et Callo, Edin. 1799.