183 OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. cation takes place by vessels of the capacity of from one to four or five coloured globules. 390. Modern physiologists have recently raised doubts respect- ing the direct communication of the arteries with the veins. M. Doellinger thinks that the arteries, at their extremity, cease to have walls, and that the blood flows exposed in the solid substance of the body which he calls mucous ; that there one part of the blood is converted into mucous substance, and that another part continues its course, joined to the sanguified mucous substance which enters into motion, and penetrates into the venous and lym- phatic vessels arising from the mucous substance as the arteries terminate in it. M. Wilbrand goes still farther, and admits a still more com- plete metamorphosis in the circulation. According to him, the whole of the blood changes into organs, or into mucous substance and into secreted fluids, and the organs becoming fluid in propor- tion, become venous fluid and lymph again, which continue the circulation, and also become the matter of excretions. In the former of these two opinions, a part, and in the latter the whole of the blood becomes solid, and in like manner a part or the whole of the organs is rendered fluid at each round of the circula- tion. In the one as in the other, the solid mass of the body is in- terposed between the terminations of the arteries and the begin- nings of the veins and lymphatics. They both suppose that the microscopical inspection of living animals and injection are faithless means of determining the communication of the arteries and veins. 391. The direct continuity of the arteries and lymphatic vessels is not so well demonstrated as that of the veins and arteries. Many anatomists, however, have admitted, with Bartholin, the continuity of lymphatic vessels with capillary arteries finer than those which allow the coloured globules of the blood to pass through them. Haller, and most of the anatomists who have lived since his time, admit no other origins to the lymphatic vessels than the tegu- mentary membranes. Some authors, among whom is to be in- cluded Mascagni, admitting that lymphatic vessels also arise from the walls of blood-vessels, thus admit a communication indirectly, although they reject the direct communication. The inspection of living animals discloses nothing to us respect- ing this communication. Injections sometimes pass, and even fre- quently, but commonly colourless, from the arteries into the lym- phatic vessels; which may depend upon transudation into the cel- lular substance and consequent passage into the lymphatics which arise from them, or upon the passage of the minute arteries into the lymphatic vessels of their walls admitted by Mascagni, just as much as upon a direct and immediate communication, which there- fore remains very doubtful. 392. The serous capillary vessels which have been admitted be- yond the capillary blood-vessels, much more from physiological considerations, than from anatomical observation, do not constitute