INTRODUCTION'. 48 spmo hours gradually discloses globules which are deposited at the I bottom, and which experience a singular motion of ascent and de- scent when the vessel is warmed by holding it in the hand. Lastly, it is to be remarked that the coagulated albumen has the greatest resemblance to fibrine, from which perhaps it does not at all differ. 75. The cruor of the blood, or the colouring matter obtained by washing, is always a mixture of free red matter, globules enveloped by the same matter, and scrum. The labours of the most expert chemists have as yet disclosed little respecting the colouring mat- ter of the blood or zoohematine. This substance, which is insolu- ble in water, but capable of dividing in an extraordinary degree, and so as to pass through the filters, is formed of an animal mat- ter in combination with peroxide of iron. The red colour of the blood varies in its shades. 76. The fibrine of the blood, or the coagulable lymph of some, presents the appearance of confused, tenacious, and elastic fibres, having the aspect of muscular fibre under the microscope, and is composed of white globules similar to those of the coloured parti- cles of the blood. The fibrine, like the muscular fibre, when placed in water, is resolved into globules before putrefying. This substance, which is coagulable or plastic, appears to be, as well as the albumen, the means of agglutination which produces adhesions and unions in the economy. The blood also contains a fat or oily matter. 77- The blood contained in the arteries, the veins, and the heart, undergoes in them a continual motion which is called circu- lation. In this motion there are experienced constant and regular alternations, which balance each other and keep it in a mean state of composition. It receives new fluids prepared by digestion and intestinal absorption ; molecules separated from the organs are in- cessantly added to its mass ; jt is subjected to the action of the at- mosphere in the lungs, where it is revivified; it is sent into all the parts, where it experiences an alteration of an opposite kind, fur- nishes materials which enter into the composition of the organs, and is deprived of some of its principles by the secretions. Of these alterations the most striking are that which it undergoes in the lungs, where it becomes of a bright red, and that which takes place in the other parts of the body, in which it assumes a brownish red colour. These alterations of colour are accompanied with and ap- pear to be owing to an absorption of oxygen in the former case, and an absorption of carbon in the latter. Besides distributing nutritive matter to all the organs, the blood is also the vehicle of the principal of heat. 78. The blood presents constant variations depending upon age, sex, and other circumstances; it also presents accidental altera- tions. In the foetus, the blood, which is of a very dark colour, has scarcely any coagulable matter. This is also the case with the