OF THE EXTEKNAL MUSCLES. 311 The internal muscles have not, like the others, true antagonists, all their fibres concurring toward a common and single object, the diminution of capacity of the cavity which they form. We may, however, consider as such,—1st, The foreign substances which keep the walls of the organs formed by these muscles separated ; 2dly, The different parts of the same hollow organ; for example, the auricles with relation to the ventricles, the body of the uterus and bladder with relation to the neck or orifice of these organs ; 3dly, The two muscular layers of the alimentary canal in the pe- ristaltic motion, the contraction of the longitudinal fibres deter- mining the elongation of the annular fibres, as they impel the con- tents onwards. Moreover, there happens here what takes place in all antagonism, the contraction of a muscle coincides with the relaxation of its antagonist, and vice versa ; 4thly, The internal muscles find antagonists in the external muscles. These muscles have no determinate fixed point. Those which are annular contract upon themselves ; those which are longitudinal however, have as a kind of fixed point the orifices of the alimentary canal; those of the reservoirs, as, the bladder and uterus, as well as those of the heart, have al§o 3 more decided fixed point in the orifice of these organs. THIRD SECTION. OF THE EXTERNAL MUSCLES. 708. These muscles are also named voluntary muscles, muscles of the animal functions, of the animal life, and muscles properly so called. It is of them that the greater part of the mass of the body is formed. 709. Their number is very great, amounting to between three and four hundred. Anatomists, however, are not agreed on this subject; some viewing as so many separate muscles what others regard as bundles of the same muscle. 710. Each muscle has its proper name, but the nomenclature has varied greatly. There is hardly a muscle that has not receiv- ed more than one name, and some ha,ve received so many as a dozen. The denomination of the musples has been taken from various considerations. The numerical order has been adopted with re- spect to some of them. Thus, when several muscles belong to the same part, the same region, the same function, &c. they are dis- tinguished by numerical names, as is the case with the radial mus- cles, the adductors., and interossei, which are distinguished into first, second, &c. Before the time of Jacobus Sylvius, almost- all the muscles were thus designated by numerical names. Their si- tuation, a,s being anterior, posterior, superior, inferior, superficialj