173 OF THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. are conveyed through the whole mass of the body, which they constantly moisten. Along with the heart, they are the organs or agents of the circulating motion, as much by their elasticity as by their organic or vital contractility. 369. The formation and development of the vascular system have been best observed in the chick: in the foetus of the mam- miferous animals it has been less examined, and in the human fetus but very imperfectly. The veins, those of the vesicula umbilicalis in particular, are formed before the heart and arteries. It is uncertain whether the veins form before the arteries in the allantoid or umbilical vessels also; It is very probable that in the body of the fcetus itself the arteries form before the veins. The vessels make their appearance in the substance of the um- bilical membrane under the form of small rounded vesicles, sepa- rated from each other. These vesicles increase in number, and unite together, which gives rise to a very slender vascular net- work. These first lineaments are destitute of walls, and consist merely of cavities formed in the substance of the membrane, which ultimately becomes denser toward their circumference, and thus forms walls to them. The texture and composition of these walls are not developed until long after. As to the original simplicity of the circulating system in the foetus, its successive complication, the formation of the heart, that of the pulmonary vessels, &c. They belong much more to par- ticular anatomy, and especially to embryology,* than to general anatomy. The number of the vessels in general, and their diameter, and, consequently, their total sum, are with relation to the mass of the body so much the greater the nearer the subject is to the period of formation. The vessels in general, the blood vessels especially, and particularly the arteries, greatly increase in density in old age. . 370. The circulating system presents little difference in the different sexes, although the vessels are sometimes thicker and stronger in the male. There are no appreciable differences in the races. Individual variations, on the contrary, are very frequent and numerous in the system. They consist especially of differences in the origin, size, number, and precise situation, and exist nearly in the same degree in the three kinds of vessels. 371. Vessels, generally very minute, form accidentally in various circumstances. Adhesions, from being at first merely glutinous, become after- wards vascular. This is especially the case with accidental tegu- ments or cicatrices. All the accidental productions resembling organic tissues are in a similar predicament. Morbid productions, • Ph. Reclard, Enibryologie ou Essai anal, stir Ic fcetus hnmuin, 4to. Paris, 1821. 3