98 OF Til K SKHOl/S MEMBRANES. the name of vaginiform. This arrangement is one of the most common. Lastly, there are others more complicated still, -which are the enveloping serous membranes, those which might with pro- priety be more peculiarly denominated saccingent membranes. They surround the organs, excepting at a single point of their sur- face, around which they are reflected upon the walls of the cavity which contains them, and are thus divided into two portions, of which one forms an envelope to the organs, and takes the name of visceral lamina or coat, while the other which invests the walls, con- stitute the parietal lamina. The various forms which we have just examined are often united in the same membrane. In the enve- loping serous membranes, such as those which occur around the heart, the lungs, and the testicles, there is always at the surface of the organ, a place which is destitute of serous envelope. It is at this place the vessels of the organ penetrate, or rather here that the organ is connected with the neighbouring parts. This free part of the organs which are invested with serous membranes, is sometimes broad, sometimes very narrow. In some cases, the vis- cus is separated from the walls which enclose it, and attached or suspended by a fold of the serous membrane which constitutes what is named a bridle, frenum, or membranous ligament. This disposition is not an exception to what we have above said: There is always a part of the organ which is not invested by the mem- brane in the whole extent of the adherence of the fold which the latter forms. Besides this kind of fold, the serous membranes pre- sent prolongations which float more or less in the interior of the cavity which they form, and which depend most commonly upon their visceral lamina, but which also sometimes belong to their other lamina. Examples of those prolongations are seen in the omen- tum and epiploic appendages, which come oft' from the peritonaeum ; the adipose folds observed in the pleura on the sides of the medias- tinum, which belong to that membrane, and the synovial fringes, which belong to the articular capsules. These prolongations always contain in their substance cellular tissue which is generally adipose, and it is in them that the membrane is most vascular. 184. All the serous membranes present two surfaces, the one free, the other adherent. The latter is flocculent, and is attached to cellular tissue, ligaments, tendons, cartilages, &c. Its degree of adhesion to these different parts is various, being sometimes effected by a loose cellular tissue, while in other places, as upon the carti- lages, the adhesion is intimate. There are numerous degrees be- tween these two extremes, as may be observed when it is attached to ligaments, muscular fibres, tendons, &c. The free surface of the serous membranes is everywhere in contact with itself, these membranes representing the interior of a collapsed bladder. This surface at first sight appears perfectly smooth and polished; but when examined with the microscope, it presents obvious villositics ; on which account the serous membranes have been named simple