118 OF THE SPLANCHNIC SEROUS MEMBRANES. which there results, on the one hand, that the membraneous cavi- ty is not open, and, on the other, that the two points of the mem- brane are continuous with each other. The complexity of the pe- ritoneum depends upon the great number of parts to which it fur- nishes coats, and upon the different disposition of these parts, of which some are very near the posterior wall of the abdomen, from which they receive their vessels, and are merely covered by the peri- toneum, while the others are distant, sometimes greatly so, from the posterior wall, and are suspended by membranous bridles which contain the vessels within them. Its complexity also depends up- on vascular prolongations projecting beyond the viscera, and to which the serous membrane furnishes floating or omental envel- opes. This membrane further presents the peculiarity of being the only serous membrane that has an aperture. This aperture oc- curs at the extremity of the uterine tube. Further details re- specting the conformation of the serous membranes belong to the particular anatomy of these membranes, and especially to that of the peritoneum and arachnoid membrane. 225. Of the two surfaces of these membranes, one is always free in the sound state, the other generally adherent. The free surface is shining, moist, and appears smooth, although it is fur- nished with minute villosities which become visible when it is view- ed under water, and which, under inflammation, become very ap- parent. It is to the serous membranes which envelope and line them, that the organs and walls of the splanchnic cavities owe their shining appearance. Wherever they are destitute of them, they present a different aspect. This free surface, which is everywhere in contact with itself, together with the serous fluid by which it is moistened, establish a true separation between parts that are ex- tremely near each other, and, in particular, facilitate the motions of these parts in a singular degree. 226. The other surface of the serous membranes is almost every- where adherent to the viscera or the walls of the cavities. There are only a few points of the visceral lamina of the arachnoid mem- brane that are free at both their surfaces, and in every other place the external surface of the serous membranes is adherent. This adhesion takes place on the one hand with the walls of the cavities, and on the other with the surface of the viscera. It varies greatly in degree. In general, wherever the serous membranes are con- nected with a ligamentous tissue, such as the dura mater, the peri- cardium, the aponeuroses of the walls of the abdomen, the tunica albuginea of the testicle, &c. this adhesion is intimate. On mus- cular and other parts, as the heart, the lungs, the stomach, in- testine, &c. it is still considerable. It is much less perfect in some places, as wherever the membrane passes from an organ to the walls of the cavity, or the reverse; wherever it forms bridles and floating prolongations which contain vessels; in the places where the subserous cellular tissue contains fat, and in general wherever it is loose.