0,15 <ce w " «»W* Inh4 lerTo«s action. .% result of tk! ^ 'Kphjadogwla. We clearly established logbl experiments i strated that this teat; >luntary motions whicb phenomena of the ion of the ovuk lies at\d bv the aIy phenomenon ifthi i> Has"3* : or the ea- erebral centre' 0 centra » then 'or'1111' L>t tbe SgSj OF THE NEUVOUS SYSTEM. 335 ccisely the mesoecphalon, that is to say, the cranial extremity of the -spinal marrow, the place from which the peduncles of the cerebellum iand cerebrum arise, is truly the centreof action of thenervous system. 759. What relation exists between the two substances of the mervous system, and what is their particular use ? Dr. Gall considers the grey substance as the matrix of the nerves, :ta fertile bed in which the nerves are rooted, and upon which depend ttheir nutrition and growth. If Dr. Gall meant by this that there is a true production or vegetation, he was deceived; for, on the one hand, no part is the product of another, all are deposited by tthe vessels, each in its place; and, on the other hand, the white ssubstance appears before the grey, both in the animal kingdom in general, and in the embryo. If he only meant an implantation, he spoke truly. The grey substance must be considered, agreeably :to the opinions of Ludwig, Dr. Gall, M. Carus and M. Tiedemann, aas a centre of activity, and as strengthening the action of the vwhite parts which are implanted into it, especially in so far as it [produces this effect by the great quantity of arterial blood which [passes through it. This substance abounds in the spinal marrow, vwherever large nerves are connected with it. It also abounds in ithe rhomboidal body of the cerebellum, and in the optic bodies and corpora striata of the cerebrum, as well as at the surface of these ttwo organs in man. /60. What is the particular function of each part of the nervous ssystem ? The nerves (Sect. II.) conduct the impressions from the sur- faces towards the centre, and the principle of the motions from the (.centre towards the muscles and vessels. The ganglia, (Sect. III.) by reason of the quantity of blood which is distributed to them, and by reason of their pecuUar tex- ture, modify the nervous action. The central nervous mass performs the most important parts of tthe function of innervation. It is the instrument of intellect. The actions of combination, which are intermediate between the .-sensation and volitions, are also functions of the encephalon. Instinct, which is in like manner intermediate between these two lorders of phenomena, if it is connected with any particular portion tof the nervous system, probably has its seat in the upper part of tthe spinal mai'row. It has often been tried to determine the organic seat of sensa- ttion and volition, by observation and experiment. M. Rolando considers the hemispheres of the brain as the seat • of these two actions, and the cerebellum as the organ which sends tthe moving principle to the muscles under the direction of the Ibrain. . According to M. Flourcns, the spinal marrow, at the place where tit is surmounted by the tubercula quadrigemina, is the common (point at which the sensations arrive, and that from which the ner- vous influence of the muscular motions departs. The cerebellum,