INTRODUCTION. 6 9- Organized and living bodies, which form the subjects of ana- tomy and physiology, are distinguished into inanimate bodies or Vegetables, and animated bodies or Animals, according to differences ■which are very distinctly marked between the animals and vege- tables, whose organization is complicated, but which are scarcely appreciable between those whose organization is the most simple. 10. The most compound vegetables are in general formed of two parts, separated by a horizontal median line, and of which the one, descending and contained in the earth, is the root; while the other, ascending and contained in the atmosphere, is the stem which bears the leaves and flowers. Their structure consists merely of an areolar tissue, vessels and spiral tubes, which are named tracheae. They have no other organs than those of nutrition and generation. Their most important parts are all situated externally. Their chemical composition is simple ; azote rarely occurs in them, or exists only locally. Their vital actions are confined to growth and reproduction. Their nutrition, the materials of which are derived from the soil and atmosphere, water and air, consists of an absorp- tion exercised by the roots, a motion of transportation which the fluids undergo in the vessels of the stem, and a kind of respiration which takes place chiefly in the leaves. In these various actions, vegetables retain hydrogen and carbon, preserve little or no azote, and exhale the superfluous oxygen. Their reproduction is per- formed in various ways. A considerable diversity, moreover, ex- ists in the organization of vegetables, the exposition of which would be out of place in a work like the present.* OP ANIMALS. 11. Animals, at the head of which is placed man, who bears a great resemblance to some of them, besides the general characters of organized bodies, have others which are peculiar to themselves, which consequently distinguish them from vegetables, and which exert an influence upon and modify the former. But ani- mals differ so much from each other, that their common charac- ters are not very numerous or well defined. The following are the characters peculiar to animals, some being common to all, the rest more or less general. Besides the rounded form which belongs in general to all or- ganized beings, it is observed that most animals, externally at least, are symmetrical, and divided by a vertical median line into two similar lateral portions, and that their length, in the direction of this line, is greater than their other dimensions, sometimes in a high degree. The proportion of the fluids to the solids is very great. The areolar or cellular tissue, winch forms the mass of the body, is very soft and contractile. The body contains an internal * See Richard's Eltmcns dc Botaniqur,