OF THE VASCULAR GANGLIA. 190 names of varicose tumour, aneurism by anastomosis, aneurism of the smaller arteries, telangiectasis, &c. Its anatomical characters are precisely the same as those of the natural erectile tissue. It is a more or less voluminous, more or less circumscribed mass, sometimes surrounded by a thin fibrous envelope, presenting at the interior an appearance of cellular or spongy cavities; consisting in reality of an inextricable lacework of arteries and veins, which communicate together by innumerable anastomoses, like the capillary vessels, but much wider, especially the veins, easily injectable by the neighbouring veins, which are sometimes varicose, but difficultly by the arteries. This alteration most commonly exists in the substance of the skin, and over a greater or less extent. It then sometimes re- sembles the crest and other similar parts of the gallinaceous birds. The skin of the face, that of the lips especially, is frequently the seat of it. It is observed in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, or more or less deep. It has been seen occupying a whole limb. It is even said to have been observed in certain viscera. This production is the seat of a vibration, a rustling, and a pul- sation, more or less manifest, and which are increased by all the causes which excite the activity of the general circulation ; but the turnout which it forms, even in the skin, are by no means sus- ceptible of a kind of isolated erection. It most commonly derives its origin from birth, and at other times appears to depend upon an accidental cause. It sometimes continues without change ; at other times, which is the most common case, it continually increases in size from the dilatation of its internal cavities, and at length bursts, giving rise to haemorrhages, which are difficult to be re- pressed. Around the anus there occur hemorrhoidal tumours, resembling the spleen in appearance, which constitute a variety of this acci- dental erectile tissue. III. OF THE VASCULAR GANGLIA. 403. The Vascular Ganglia, adenoid or glandiform organs, or apo- ric glands, * confounded under the common name of glands with organs of excretory secretion, are also parts in which the termina- tion and communications of the vessels affect particular disposi- tions. M. Heusinger has given them the name of parenchymatous tissue. Their texture results from the union of several other tissues. They are formed of modified cellular tissue, of blood-vessels and • Queitschius, Be Glandulis cwcis, &c. in Setcet. Med. Franco/.—Hendy. Essay on Glandular Secretion Hewson. Dacriplw Glandul. &c. Ojnis Poslhum. in Op. Oviu. H. F. F. Leonhardi, De Glandulis in gmercet Glandulis Aporicis, &c. Dres-