X. ss, ■mil ■OF THE CARTILAGES. ate little tnoTm. con'1*' 538. Inflammation of the libro-cartiiages has been little obscrv- iCil. All that is known is, that in certain cases, the desmo-cartila- iginous parts become extremely soft in consequence of an afflux of tlfluids, forming a kind of congestion. This is observed in gesta- ttion, at the symphysis of the pelvis, and has been observed even iin man, in the same articulations. The vertebral column presents t this softening in a very marked degree in cases of rachitis. There rresults from it a flexibility of the intervertebral ligaments which nmakes the column bend with the greatest facility, and, if the indi- vidual keeps habitually in a bad attitude, causes the spine to bend aterally in several places, and ultimately involves the vertebrae (themselves in the deformity. One of the varieties of the vertebral disease also consists in the -softening and swelling of the intervertebral ligaments, which at Uength ulcerate and are destroyed.* ^occurrence, The! be taken as the type I !• The accidental'irol intents, of a millyrfe itic. According to their- fibro-tartikges ma? fee ■ means of union of ceM, !,ffAetnerona<wnntoi tie patella and others,! lDce in oneof the bones' rpus, stoU, fc Plm, ' the surfaces of super- } the surface of supple- ic3tn J£*ot k r<«^ e*< ,1< ae< nUt^l^ CHAPTER VH. Of THE C AllTIL AGES. 539- The cartilages, Xovdgoi, are white, hard, flexible, very elas- titic, brittle parts, of homogeneous aspect, which form the skeleton iof the vertebrate animals lowest in the series (the chondroptery- gious fishes), which take the place of the bones in the other ver- toebrata at the commencement of their life ; and of which some, persisting in the adult state, form parts which are solid, hard, and (flexible at the same.time. 540. The old anatomists, and those of the Italian school, dis- p3uted much respecting the matter which forms the bones and car- adages, and their differences. Gagliardi and Havers in vain seareh- ced for this difference in the intimate texture of the parts. More luseful observations have been made in the last century on the car- tilaginous tissue. We are indebted to Haase-f- for a very good (dissertation on this subject; but that anatomist, like several of Ihose who preceded and followed him, has confounded the chon- llroid ligaments with the cartilages, which renders his general de- cription somewhat vague. Bichat has separated from the other artilages those which are thin and very flexible, to form of them, iLlong with the cartilaginiform ligaments, the fibro-cartilaginous vystem; but these latter are true ligaments, and the former true aartilages. 541. The cartilages are either temporary or permanent, the for- mer constantly, regularly, and completely disappear at a determi- * It would be extremely difficult to cite a well authenticated case of such a dis- ease. - K. ' * * f J. G. Haase. Dc Fubrka Gi> tilaginum. Lips. 1767.