337 OF THIS NERVOUS SYSTEM. r to dissipate the un- 'e. to Woofer.' liied experiments on substance of the beuus. striatum tor the abdo- osterioT part of the he- >f physiological and pa- bility in the cerebellum, sphere of the brain, ad- v to the side of lie «• JntiecMrfl/ysk m onesideoftbe brain The circulation is under the influence of the entire spinal mar- irow, and of all the nerves of motion which are connected with it. ' The particular action of the heart also is under it, but not directly, ;and is directly under the influence of the sympathetic nerve. Re- : spiration is under the direction of the upper and lateral part of the •spinal marrow; digestion, under the combined influence of the jpar vagum and sympathetic nerve. Secretion, absorption, vital heat and nutrition, are under the in- Ifluence of all the parts of the nervous system. 761. Nothing is known respecting the manner in which the inervous system produces innervation. This fact eluding observa- tion, a multitude of hypotheses have been proposed with respect to lit. These hypotheses have varied with the doctrines which have fpredominated at different periods. It has been attempted to explain the nervous action by mecha- mical hypotheses, whether by supposing that the fibres may vibrate iin the manner of cords, or by only admitting such vibrations in ttheir elementary fibres, or in the spiral fibres which are supposed tto exist in them; or lastly, by a concussion among the elastic gglobules which have been imagined to occur in them. Other explanations have been founded upon the supposition of aa nervous fluid, whether coarse and visible, or more generally an iancoercible fluid ; and in this latter supposition, it has sometimes Ibeen called ether, sometimes phlogistic or magnetic, luminous, electric, and latterly galvanic, according to the objects which have ait different periods engaged the attention of philosophers. Reil has proposed a hypothesis on this subject, which consists iui deriving the nervous action from a chemico-vital process. He attributes in general the action of the organic parts to their form l amd composition. The form and composition of the organic parts »eing changed, their action is always changed ; and whenever the taction is changed, there are observable changes in the parts ; so .hat as a general rule, the change of action is the consequence of a thange of composition of the part. The nervous action, therefore, •tupposes a change in the nervous substance. What appears es- pecially favourable to this hypothesis, is the great quantity of ar- cerial blood which is distributed to the nervous system, and espe- cially to the grey substance, the volume of which is always propor- tionate to the nervous activity. (7^9.) 762. Independently of all hypothesis, the nervous action may we considered as a general fact, and its phenomena and conditions nnay be observed. The phenomena of innervation are not sensible nn the nerve, as those of muscular contraction are in the muscle. Wothing is seen in it. Some facts, however, seem to indicate that 1 motion of some kind takes place in the nervous substance when m action in order to produce sensation. The sensation result- ing from the impression made by the light of the sun upon I '"he eye is not instantaneous. Shaking or pressure of the eye in Inarkness gives rise to the sensation of light, &c. Many other facts collected by Darwin would seem to indicate that in sensation there