OF THE GANGLIA AND Sl'MVATMETIO NBIWE, 357. fibres are visibly the continuation of the nerves connected with the ganglia. The cceliac ganglion is the only one in which this conti- nuation is not very manifest. These filaments are still recognised by their colour and form. The action of alkalies and acids upon them, characterizes thein in the very heart of the ganglia, as medullary nervous filaments. These filaments, as they penetrate into the ganglia, leave oft' their ncurilema, which intimately unites with the external mem- brane of the ganglion ; their surface appears looser, and as if blended or intimately united with the adjacent substances. These medullary filaments have a considerable tenacity. 798. The second substance of the ganglia determines not only the difference between the nerves and ganglia, but also between the ganglia and plexuses. This substance has been much neglected by anatomists, who, considering the ganglia as more condensed plexuses, have only regarded it as destined to separate or unite the nervous ^laments (Scarpa,) or to perform the functions of cellular tissue (Haase.) The matter which surrounds the medullary filaments of the ganglia is a peculiar cellular tissue, whose interstices arc filled with a mucilaginous or gelatinous pulp, of a reddish ashy colour,' and in some ganglia yellowish. This colour, like that of the other organs, does not depend solely upon the quantity of the blood which they receive. 1 This secondary substance is not equally abundant, and is not entirely united to the medullary substance in the same manner, in all the ganglia. 799- Scarpa says that this pulpy matter is of a fatty nature in very fat bodies. M. Meckel appears to be of the same opinion. Bichat, on the contrary, thinks that the ganglia are never transformed into fat. The observations of M. Wutzcr, and my own, are in perfect ac- cordance with those of Bichat. In very full subjects, fat accumu- lates beneath the membrane of the ganglia, and when in large quantities, not only surrounds the ganglion, but compresses it and diminishes its volume, but this is never itself converted into fat. > 800. The ganglia are enveloped by a cellular or fibrous mem- brane, which differs in the various kinds of ganglia. 801. The blood-vessels of the ganglia are very numerous. The arteries come from the neighbouring trunks. They ramify first in the membrane, where they form a network. Minute twigs pene- trate into the filamentous and pulpy tissue of the ganglion. Some- times arterial twigs penetrate into the ganglion along with nervaus filaments, and accompany them. The veins present a similar dis- tribution. Nothing is known respecting the lymphatic vessels of these organs. 802. The medullary filaments present no interruption in the ganglia. They establish a continuity or an uninterrupted connex- ion between the nervous cords, in the course of which the ganglia are placed. These medullary filaments contract connexions in the interior of the ganglia, and traverse them in all directions, so as tq 7