01' THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. 130 jectable parts. In proportion as it advances in age, on the con- trary, the proportion of uninjectable parts augments, and that of the capillary vessels diminishes. 'SH5. Beyond the capillary blood-vessels of the diameter of a coloured globule, are there other smaller vessels which afford pas- sage to the colourless part of the blood ? This is a question of very difficult solution. Boerhaave, Vieussens, Ferrein, Haller, Soemmering, Bichat, Chaussier, and many modern anatomists and physiologists, admit serous vessels beyond the last blood-vessels, and Bleuland even thinks he has demonstrated their existence. On the other hand, Prochaska, Mascagni, Richerand, and se- veral others, are of opinion that there are no vessels of this kind. It is necessary to examine the facts and reasons adduced in sup- port of these opinions. 386. Edmund King was one of the first who substituted for the hypothesis of the ancients respecting the existence of a parenchy- ma in the viscera, that of a purely vascular structure, which sup- poses that there are serous vessels, for the last capillary blood-ves- sels, are far from occupying or from forming the whole substance of the tissues. Vieussens and Boerhaave especially have admitted not only one, but several orders of decreasing and colourless vessels. The dis- ciples of Boerhaave, Haller, the most celebrated of them, and most of the physiologists up to the present day, have also admitted serous vessels, forming a continuation of the arteries beyond the point at which the veins commence. They found their opinion upon the microscopical observations of Leuwenhoek, who speaks of vessels admitting only serous globules, upon the phenomena of injection, and especially upon those of inflammation, which ren- ders parts naturally white and transparent more or less red. It is to be added to this, that red and injectable capillary ves- sels known in certain organs, are in so small proportion to the un- injectable substance, that it is difficult to conceive how their nutri- tion could take place without there existing circulating passages more extended and more multiplied than those of the known blood- vessels. . J. Bleuland * has added to these reasons an anatomical experi- ment, which, if it were repeated and confirmed, would furnish the most powerful argument in favour of the existence of serous ves- sels. It is known that the red injection, which is fine and very pene- trating, easily passes from the arteries into the veins through the intermediate capillary system. It is also known, that the colour- ing matter remains in the capillary vessels even while its vehicle transudes and is infiltrated in the surrounding substance, where, * Experimcntum Amtomicum, quo Artcriolarum Lymphuticarum cxistcntia prvhubili- ter udstruituf, Ituiitittum, dcictiptum, ct icotie illvttratum. Lupd. Bnt. 17S4, 4to.