3 OF ORGANIZED BODIES. and penetrate into all their parts. All the parts, whether solid or fluid, are mutually and necessarily connected, and it is from their union that the organized body results. The solids and the fluids have a similar composition : they contain much water, and some particular combinations or immediate products, and may be almost entirely resolved into gas. Their matter has nothing peculiar, but is also found in the inorganic bodies from which it is derived, and is much less distinguished by its nature than by its arrangement. The idea of its differing essentially from brute matter is altogether erroneous. Oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, azote in many, and a few earthy substances, constitute its elements. It is this proper form, this structure common to all living bodies, this areolar tissue containing fluids, more or less abundant, and of the same nature as itself, that is called organization. 6. The aggregate of the phenomena proper to organized bodies is called Life. Life consists essentially in the circumstance that organized bodies are all during a determinate time centres which are penetrated by foreign substances which they appropriate to themselves, and from which issue others which become foreign to them. In this motion of momentary formation, the matter of which the body consists continually changes, but its form remains the same. It is in the state of fluids that foreign substances pe- netrate into organized bodies, and it is under the same form that the superfluous particles issue from them. The fluids and solids are in unintermitting motion in the organization; the fluids pass- ing through the cavities of the solids, and the latter, by their dilatation and contraction, determining a great part of the motion of the fluids. They change incessantly into each other, a part of the mobile matter becoming fixed for a time, and a part of the solids becoming fluid again, which agrees with the similarity of their composition. Organized bodies undergo changes during the whole course of their existence. From the moment of their origin, they increase in size and in density. The latter kind of change continues to the end, when the structure of the body being insensibly altered, the vital motion becomes languid and ceases, which constitutes death. After death, the elements which com- posed the organized body separate, and form new combinations. Each organized body having not only its external form, but its proper and peculiar structure, each of its parts concurs by its ac- tion to produce the general result. The action of each organ or of several organs, which have a common end, is called function. Nutrition, a function comprising absorption, assimilation and excretion, of which we have just made mention, is not the only phenomenon common to organized bodies. Generation is another phenomenon as general, without which the species would not subsist, death being the necessary consequence of life. All orga- nized and living bodies spring from bodies like themselves, and all produce1 their like. For this purpose, a part of the organized body which has accpnred its development, after adhering to it, separates