120 OF THE SPLANCHNIC SEROUS MEMBRANES. external surface, and especially to the subserous cellular substance, as may be demonstrated by detaching the membrane, which is found white in the places where it was supposed to contain nu- merous red vessels, which however were only seen through it. The red vessels are particularly abundant in the floating or omen- tal folds. Nerves have been followed until near these membranes, but they have not been traced into their substance itself. 230. When dried these membranes become transparent; as- sume a slight yellow tint, and become, at the same time, elastic and firm. On immersing them in water, they resume their pro- perties. Maceration renders them, at first, soft, opaque, thick, then pulpy, and at length, but not until after a very long period, dissolves them. In dead bodies beginning to alter, these mem- branes on the one hand allow fluids to transude, and on the other, become impregnated with them ; whence the various colours which they acquire. By exposure to the fire, and by immersion in boil- ing water, they harden. Continued boiling converts them into gelatine and a little albumen ? These various characters indicate their approximation to the cellular and ligamentary tissues. 231. The power of formation is less developed in them than in the free cellular tissue. Irritation produces no perceptible motion in them, but it alters their secretion and texture, and gives rise to inflammation. They are not possessed of sensibility excepting when in this state, when they generally become the seat of intense pain. 232. In the state of life and health, they are moistened at their free surface by the serous fluid which they continually deposit and take up again. This secretion has been attributed to the action of certain glands which have been supposed to be lodged in their tis- sue. Ruysch has proved that these alleged glands have no exist- ence. Hunter imagined that this secretion took place by a transu- dation, similar to that in the dead body, through the areolae, inter- stices, or inorganic porosities of the tissue of the vessels. Although the true organic mode, according to which the perspiratory and other secretions are performed, is not well known, it may at least be affirmed that it differs from transudation, which takes place on- ly in the dead body. The serous fluid, in the state of health, ex- ists in so small quantity as scarcely to be perceptible, and cannot be collected without difficulty. Hewson collected in small quanti- ty the fluid which moistens the serous membranes, in animals in- stantaneously killed, and found it, on exposing it to the air and allowing it to rest, to coagulate like the coagulable lymph of the blood. lie did not succeed, however, in collecting the serosity of the cellular membrane, under the same circumstances. Bostock found in the healthy serosity of the splanchnic cavities, water, al- bumen in smaller proportion than in the serum, incoagulable mat- ter and salts. Schwilgue found in it albumen, an extractive mat- ter and a fat matter. From the examination which I have made of the serosity of the splanchnic cavities, it seems to me that the in-