OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 3&5 ous degrees of organization. The glires and cheiroptera occupy the lowest rank in this respect. Their hemispheres do not entire- ly cover the tubcrcula. They have only a superficial fissura sylvii, a few slight grooves, and no circumvolutions. In the carnivora, the ruminantia, the hog and the horse, the hemispheres, which are much more voluminous and prominent, cover a part of the cere- bellum. They have circumvolutions and anfractuosities, but are still destitute of posterior lobes. In the quadrumana, the hemi- spheres cover the cerebellum, but the posterior lobe is still desti- tute of circumvolutions. The corpus callosum, which is formed by the reversion towards the median line of the peduncles spread out in the hemispheres, do not exist in the ovipara. In the mammifera its extent is propor- tional to that of the hemispheres. It is accordingly very small in the glires. The lateral ventricles, which are formed by the replication of the nervous membrane of the hemispheres, are proportionate to the ex- tent of the latter. The fornix does not exist in fishes. We find the first traces of its pillars in reptiles, and still more distinctly in birds. In all the mammifera the pillars are united to form the fornix. In them there occur, moreover, the septum lucidum and its ventricle. These parts are proportionate to the extent of the hemispheres. The cornu Ammonis exists only in the brain of the mammifera. The unciform eminence exists in none of the animals, excepting perhaps the quadrumana. The pituitary gland exists in all the fishes. It is very large compared with the encephalon in all the inferior classes. The pineal gland appears to be wanting in the class of fishes. The olfactory lobes terminate the encephalon anteriorly. Ac- cording to M. Desmoulins they form what is called the brain in the cartilaginous fishes. They equal the brain in size in many os- seous fishes and reptiles. They are very small in birds, greatly developed and hollow in many mammifera, and rudimentary in the human species. The principal differences which the nervous centre presents in man, are, therefore, the volume of the cerebellum and cerebrum, compared with the spinal marrow, the tubercles and the olfactory lobes ; the size of the lateral lobes of the cerebellum compared with the middle lobe; that of the cerebral hemispheres, and their being prolonged backwards ; the existence of its posterior lobe and its appendages; the thickness of the nervous membrane which forms the hemispheres, the size of its central medullary mass, the number and depth of its grooves, the number and thickness of its convolu- tions, whence results a greater extent of its surface; and, lastly, the extent of the corpus callosum. 740. The ancients, commencing with Galen, and many moderns, regarding the nervous system as having a single centre in the en- cephalon, and prolongations (the spinal marrow and nerves.) It