o(jl< OF THE GANGLIA AND SYMPATHETIC NLTlVIi. > have considered the ganglia as points of origin, and especially as oentres of nervous action, no one has defended the latter idea with more vigour and talent than Bichat. Reil, Autenrieth, Wutzer, Broussais, and many others, have added new arguments to those of our celehrated countryman, whose opinion they have emhraccd with some slight modifications. 814'. Bichat considers the organic nervous system as essentially resulting from numerous centres or ganglia, connected together by filaments, and the sympathetic nervous trunk itself as a series of anastomosed ganglia and filaments. Bichat has perhaps attributed too great an importance to the ganglia; but he certainly has not accorded to their collective mass all the importance that it merits. According to Reil, the sympathetic nerve constitutes a systom of its own, which he calls the ganglionary system. He also calls it the vegetative nervous system. In the vertebrate animals it is united to the cerebral, or animal system, but does not emanate from it. His system, in place of having a single centre into which the roots are implanted, has several foci of action :—1st, It con- sists of two plexuses or net-works placed around the arteries. Of these there are reckoned about a dozen. One of the principal of them, the epigastric plexus, which is furnished with ganglia, and forms secondary plexuses, is a kind of centre or brain. 2dly, These plexuses are connected with the cerebro-spinal system by conducting twigs and plexuses. The two trunks united below, before the coccyx^ and above by the fifth and sixth pairs, and by the brain, consti- tute an elliptical periphery which embraces the whole system of gan~ glia and plexuses, and into which penetrate several cerebral nerves, especially the eighth pair. 3dly, The conducting twigs or plexuses would transmit sensations and volitions, were they perfect conduc- tors ; but they may be considered as semi-conductors, and the gan- glia as isolating bodies. There result from this two nervous systems, and two spheres of nervous activity :—1st, The animal sphere, in which the impres- sions are felt, and in which the volitions determine the motions; 2dly, The vegetative sphere, in which the nervous activity is dis- tributed slowly, constantly and obscurely. In this system, the im- pressions, without being propagated to the animal centre, determine motions. In the diseased state, however, the communicating cords and plexus become conductors, the ganglia cease to isolate, the im- pressions are felt, and the motions are influenced by the animal centre. Farther, according to Reil, in magnetic sleep, i. e. somnambulism, the separation of the two nervous systems disappears, and the epigastric nervous centre, the centre of the vegetative sphere, be- comes a distinct sense. M. Autenrieth considers the symphathctic nerve as arising from the brain and spinal marrow, but becoming more and more inde- pendent, in proportion as it is separated by plexus and ganglia, the, reddish and greyish substance of the sympathetic nerves, conduct-