OF THE VEINS. 207 ^^neo^'^llitllfifrom following a regular order of increase in the volume of the ft* e arrerv ' cware sometimes seen connected with a trunk of no great size, which nes and bber of anastomoses. ■ The -- ^ : arte- k^W,at aud those which depend ? varies with age. This s of the bodj. In the bran are there appar- 'his is also the case with ! contrary, the veins are mi the«as that • terminauon. iUm* 'anarten'.is accorapa- dispositions: the ^ ^oic radicle, or< d around the spermatic artery, wide canals in the spongy bones, .,nd under the skin, they form, by their numerous communications, a great net-work with angular, and most commonly pentagonal eshes. They are not so regularly cylindrical as the arteries, and so far unks, and of decrease in their total capacity, very large branches ddepends especially on the softness of the walls and the great num. The communication of the veins present all t'the varieties already indicated (356,) and, moreover, the union of wery large trunks, as that of the venae cava? by the vena azygos; the union of superficial veins and deep-seated veins, as that of the ccranial and spinal veins with the epicranial, temporal, cervical, l4eeo\ | ildorsal, and other veins of the internal and external jugular veins, aand of the deep veins with the subcutaneous veins of the extremi- ties. In general, the veins have a less flexuous, straighter, and, con- ssequently, shorter course than the arteries. The variations of the veins have been a little exaggerated, as tthose of the arteries have been represented on too low a scale. iThe great venous trunks especially are less variable than they ihave been said to be. The branches and twigs are so in a high Jdegree. 446. The interior of the veins presents a great number of waives * or doubled prolongations of the inner membrane, in which (circumstance there is a great difference between them and the ar- tteries. The valves are very well seen on examining under water sa vein that has been slit in the longitudinal direction. Each valve consists of a replication of the inner membrane. 'This replication has a convex edge adhering to the walls of the in, on the side next its roots, and a concave and free edge, di- rrected towards the side next the heart. These two edges are a little thicker than the rest of the fold. One of the faces looks to- ward the cavity of the vessel, and corresponds to the blood which (circulates there; the other corresponds to the walls of the vein, 'which is a little dilated at this point. When the valve falls, the tface which corresponds to the roots becomes convex, and the other Ibecomes concave, and the vein swells a little. The valves are so rmuch the broader, the larger the vein is, and so much the more (elongated, the narrower it is. It is to this difference especially tthat the varieties of form described by Perrault and several others ids to be referred. Besides the inner membrane, there also exists in the substance odf the valves dense cellular tissue, and sometimes distinct fibres, ^Sometimes they are areolar and perforated like lace. In the veins • H. Fabricio. De Vaiarum ostiolis, in ojy. omn J. G. Sehmicdt •mius, De Valulitseu MembramdU Vusorum carutnquestructural usu. -—Perrault. EtsaU de Physique, t. iii. uid II. Mcilio- Helmst. 1CH2.