801 OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. and, like it, ceases only when putrefaction commences. It may be considered, together with the diminution of heat which always ac- companies it, as a certain sign of death. If a muscle in the state of rigidity be immersed and kept in alcohol, this state persists in- definitely in it. 692. Other moving properties have also been attributed to the muscles. Galen recognised in them a tonic force independent of life. Elasticity has also been accorded to them. Haller accorded to them contractile force in general, and dead force ; Simpson and Whytt attributed to them tonicity or tonic force ; and Bichat, be- sides voluntary contractility and irritability or involuntary con- tractility, also accorded insensible organic contractility, that is to say, tonicity. The muscles are extensible. They are also retractile, and are so independently of their contraction under irritation. In the state of sleep and rest, the muscles generally give to the parts interme- diate attitudes, dependent upon their proportional length, and consequently upon their tension, their force, and the more or less efficacious manner in which that force is applied. The same thing takes place in paralysis determined artificially by cutting all the nerves of the limb. In paralysis of the brain, and in contrac- tion of the limbs, the attitude is somewhat different, flexion being sometimes carried to a great extent. But a doubt remains here, which is, whether the cause of paralysis has equally affected all the nerves of the part, or even if this cause is not one of tonic con- traction of some muscles. In the dead body the muscles remain contractile, and give a determinate attitude to all the parts of the body, until it is dissipated by the rigidity which ensues. 693. The muscles are possessed of sensibility, but only in a moderate degree. In the state of health they only suffer the feel- ing of fatigue during and after their action, when it has been pro- longed. When this action has been very long and violent, it gives rise to a painful sensibility. It is the same in all cases of inflammation of their tissue or of their cellular sheaths. Cabanis and Dr. Yelloly have given cases of disease in which the muscles were insensible. 694. The circumstances which show a continual change of par- ticles in the nutrition of the muscles are not very evident. The fact, however, is probable. It seems to be the globular part of the blood which supplies the materials for it. The effects of exercise upon the nutrition, enlargement, and colouring of the muscles, and the opposite effect of too long protracted rest, are well known. Paralysis produces a still more decided effect upon their diminu- tion. The quantity and kind of food have a great influence upon the volume and strength of the muscles. Certain consumptive diseases, as phithisis, have a marked influence upon muscular atrophy. It is not known if, whether in this case, there is a dimi- nution of volume only, or a disappearance of the fibres. 695. In the embryo, the muscular tissue is not distinct from the cellular tissue, but is confounded with it into a common gelatinous