INTRODUCTION. 34 size by tlie absorption of tbc yolk, while the latter suffers a propor- tional diminution, and at length disappears when the period of ex- elusion is at hand. The foetuses of the oviparous animals which are furnished with lungs (birds and reptiles, excepting the Batra- chia), have moreover a very vascular membrane which appears to be subservient to respiration, and which is a prolongation of the bladder. This membrane is the allantoid: it does not exist in fishes, nor in the batrachial reptiles, the young of which have the general form of fishes. Certain reptiles and fishes retain their eg£s within their bodies until they are hatched. These animals are said to be ovo-viparous. The prolongation of the spinal marrow within the skull presents, in the ovipara, tubercula quadrigemina of great size, whereas the ce- rebellum and cerebrum are very small, and there are neither pons varolii nor corpus callosum. The bones of their cranium are very soon united, or remain separated for a very long time; their or- gans of sense are not so perfect as in the viviparous animals ; their lower jaw, which is very complex, is articulated by a concave sur- face to a projecting part of the temporal bone, which is distinct from the petrous bone; their orbits are only separated by a mem- brane or by an osseous plate of the sphenoid bone. When they have anterior limbs, the clavicles frequently unite and form a four- chette, and the elongated coracoid processes are articulated to the sternum. The larynx is rather simple and wants the epiglottis and other parts; and there is not a complete diaphragm between the thorax and abdomen. The ovipara are divided, according to their respiration, their temperature, the atmosphere which they inhabit, their kind of mo- tion, the appendages of their skin, and other circumstances, into three classes : Fishes, Reptiles, and Birds. 57- Fishes have a mode of organization evidently adapted for swimming, and are suspended in a fluid of nearly the same specific gravity as themselves. Many of them have in the body, under the vertebral column, a membranous bag filled with air, by com- pressing or dilating which the animal can render its body heavier or lighter. The head, which varies in form, is of a very compli- cated structure, as regards the skull, the jaws and the distribution of the teeth. The limbs are greatly reduced in extent, and formed into fins. Other fins occupy the back, the under part of the tail, and its extremity. The number of the limbs varies. More com- monly there are four, sometimes two, and in some cases none at all. Their position and their connexion with the trunk are also subject to great diversity. The organs of digestion are equally variable. The pancreas is generally substituted by intestinal ap- pendages. The circulation is double, that is to say, the whole of the blood passes through the respiratory organ, but the atmosphere respired is aerated water. For this purpose they have on the sides of the neck an apparatus of organs called branchia or gills, which consist of plates attached to lateral arches of the hyoid bone, and