OF ANIMALS. 15 I pulmonary artery is a branch. In all the other animals which have i a local respiration and a circulation, the latter is double and the i circulation perfect; in other words, at each course of the blood, the whole fluid passes through the respiratory organ. In the articulate animals and the mollusca, the circuit is single. In the former, the blood proceeds from the heart to the whole body, passing entirely through the branchiae, which is also the case in fishes. In the mollusca, it goes f;om the heart to the branchiae, passing previous- ly through the whole body. In birds and the mammifera, the two hearts being coherent, the circle is double, or, more properly speak- ing, the circuit is crossed, and may be represented by the figure 8, at the centre of which is the heart. 21. The nutritious fluid, besides being subjected to the action of the atmosphere, has also to be freed of superabundant matters by the secretions. In the animals which have an internal cavity, and therefore two surfaces, these two surfaces are subservient to excre- tion as well as absorption in their whole extent. The internal skin and the external skin present small cavities or depressions from which the fluid issues. Lastly, in the same animals in which there is no circulation, if some particular fluid is to be produced, the ca- vities or depressions of the internal or external skin are extended and ramified into proper vessels or excretory ducts in the body, and inhale from the nutritious fluid the elements which enter into the composition of that substance. In like manner, in the animals which possess a circulation, sometimes the vessels are simply spread out upon broad surfaces, and allow the secreted fluid to escape by perspiration ; sometimes it is from the bottom of small cavities or follicles formed in the internal or external skin that the fluid oozes; in other places, the arteries, at the point where they change into veins, communicate with excretory ducts which are ramified and al- ways formed by the internal or external skin. It is from the union of these canals with the blood vessels that the glands result. These latter organs of secretion are peculiar to the animals which have a heart. The liver, for example, the most general of these organs, only exists in the tracheal arachnides under the form of disunited vessels, as in insects. In the pulmonary arachnides and Crustacea, on the contrary, there is a liver which is still separated into dis- tinct lobes, and in some species into bundles or bunches of vessels. The mollusca have all a liver of large size. Most of them have sa- livary glands, but neither pancreas nor kidneys. Several have se- cretions peculiar to themselves. The vertebrate animals are all furnished with glands, and in addition to those which the others pos- sess, they have kidneys which are organs that are closely connect- ed with those of generation. Of the fluids which result from the different secretions, some have uses in the exercise of functions, as the saliva, the bile, &c. ; others, as the urine especially, are re- jected as superfluous or noxious matters. Thus the organs of the nutritive functions in their extreme di- versity, consist of a permeable substance which absorbs, assimi-