236 OF THE PERIOSTEUM. ihrodial articulations, but is not so at the immoveable articula- tions. Its outer surface is flocculcnt, and covered with filaments which are confounded with the surrounding cellular tissue, and which, in other places, arc continuous with the ligamonts and tendons. The inner surface is attached to the bone by innumerable pro- longations which accompany the vessels into its interior and into its substance. This surface is very firmly attached to the bones where they are thick and spongy, but less firmly in the other parts. Its adhesion is also less firm in children than in adults. The thickness of the periosteum is variable, and proportionate to that of the bones. Its texture is fibrous, and in the places against which tendons rub fibro-cartilaginous. It has very numerous blood vessels, * and in fhis respect forms a remarkable exception in the ligamentous tissue. Lymphatic vessels have also been perceived in it. No nerves have been observed. The periosteum is at first thin, and possesses little vascularity previously to the period of ossilication. It becomes thick and vas- cular at that epoch. The use of madder does not colour it. The functions of the periosteum are to envelope the bones, sus- tain the vessels^ unite the epiphyses, in childhood, to the body of the bone, and serve at that period for the insertion of ligaments and tendons. The use of forming the bones has been attributed to it, but without proof, for ossification of the short bones is seen to com- mence at the centre of the cartilage, and consequently at a dis- tance from the periosteum. There have also been attributed to it •the faculties of determining the form of the bones, limiting their growth by retaining the bony juices, &c. As to the part which it may perform in the increase of the bones in thickness, the repair- ing of' bones when divided or affected with necrosis, it will be af- terwards examined (Chap. VIII.) The periosteum when divided unites again. When removed, a •superficial necrosis commonly follows, and it is reproduced after ex- foliation. When it is inflamed, resolution sometimes takes place* •and at other times gangrene. Sometimes it suppurates, and then more or less quickly separates from the bone, which becomes af- fected with necrosis. At other times the inflammation being plas- tic, a deposition takes place in its substance, forming a periostosis, which is sometimes dispersed by absorption, and at other times os- sifies. The periosteum is sometimes the seat of a degeneration or a cerebriform cancerous production, at the centre of which the bone itself is not much altered. 523. The perichondrium, or ligamentous membrane which en- • " See Iiuyscli. Adv. Anal. Dec. iii. Tub. ii. fig. 8.—Albinus. Icon, on-faim. Tab. xvi. fig. 162.