OF ACCIDENTAL HUMOURS. 307 CHAPTER XI. OF ACCIDENTAL PRODUCTIONS. 818. The productions which are accidentally met with in the hu- man organization are humours, concretions, tissues, and living animals. These objects do not form part of the healthy or regular organ- ization, and belong only to morbid anatomy. Their description, or at least their general indication, we, however, place here, as forming a supplement to what has been said, under each tissue in particular, respecting the alterations and productions which are pe- culiar to them. The productions treated of in this chapter are common to several parts, or to the whole of the organization. The knowledge of alterations and accidental productions is of great importance to the medical practitioner; for, on the one hand, this knowledge is the basis of pathology, and, on the other, ana- tomy being seldom studied on sound subjects, but most commonly on bodies of diseased individuals, the anatomist, in his researches, meets every moment with alterations of the organization and acci- dental productions. FIRST SECTION. OF ACCIDENTAL HUMOUKS. 819- The natural humours may be altered in their quantity or in their quality. Some of these alterations have already been pointed out. There sometimes, moreover, occur humours entirely different from the former. Of these pus is the only one sufficient- ly known to be described. 820. Pus* is an accidental humour resulting from a morbid se- cretion, which is named suppuration. It is composed of micros- copic globules similar to those of the blood, and discovered by Home, swimming in a fluid which is coaguble by the solution of muriate of ammonia. It is of a white or yellowish colour, opaque and of the consistence of cream. Its consistence and colour depend upon the proportion •C. Darwin, Experiments Establishing a Criterion between Mucus and Purulent Matter, Lightfield, 1780—Brugtnans, Disscrtatio dc Pyogenic, Groningre, 1785. —E. Home On the Properties of Pus, London, 1789—Grasmeyer, Abhandlung Von dcm citer, &c., Gotting. 1790—Schwilgue\ unpublished Memoir on Pus, analysed in Nosogr. Philos. vol. ii—G. Pearson On Expectorated Matter, in Phil. Trans. 1809.—Idem, Observ. and Exper. on Pus, ibid, 1810—Rizetti, Dc Phthisi Pulmpn. ali Spccim. C/iim. Med. in Turin Mem. vol. ii. and iii Rossi and Michelotti, Ann. lytc prcmieri du Pus, ibid. vol. iii—E. Home on tlie Conversion of Pus into Granu- lations or New Flesh, in Phil. Trans. 1819.