OF THE GANGLIA AND SY ."uTATHKTIC NEliVK. 361 {JO/. The Sympathetic Nerve,* called also the intercostal or tri- splanehnic, is a nervous and ganglionar^ cord, extended from the head to the pelvis, connected by anastomosing twigs or roots with all the spinal nerves, and the trigeminal nerve, and furnishing twigs i to the organs of the splanchnic cavities of the trunk. The cephalic extremity of this nerve penetrates into the cranium ' by the carotid canal and cavernous sinus, in which it forms a plexus ;uid frequently a ganglion upon the carotid artery. From thence it sends anastomotic filaments to the nerve of the sixth pair, and communicates with the inferior twig of the vidian nerve. It sends off secondary plexuses over the branches of the internal carotid ar- tery, and can be traced as far as a small single ganglion situated upon the anterior communicating artery of the brain. It afterwards consists of three cervical ganglia, twelve thoracic, five lumbar and four sacral, and of their communicating cords, placed on each side of the anterior face of the vertebral column. In the whole length of the nerve, each ganglion presents external anastomotic filaments or roots, and internal filaments or branches. ' In this respect the sympathetic nerve may be compared to a sub- cutaneous stem or an articulated rhizoma, which, at each knot, presents on one side roots, and on the other branches, both which separate at a right angle or at one approaching it. The branches of the great sympathetic nerve are distributed to the organs situated in the face, the neck, the thorax, the abdomen properly so called, and the pelvis. The pelvic extremity of the sympathetic nerve consists of a small ganglion or arch, in which the two nerves unite, and which fur- nishes some slender filaments to the parts about the anus. Some of the internal twigs of the sympathetic nerves proceed directly to arteries, and form plexuses for them ; others, in much, greater number, gain the median line, and there, uniting with those of the opposite side, form median ganglia or plexuses (the cardiac" and coeliac,) which communicate with twigs of the pneumogastric nerve, which furnish secondary plexuses and ganglia, and terminate in the heart, the aorta, the digestive canal, the urinary and genital organs, but especially in the arteries of these organs. 808. Rare, and perhaps incorrectly observed, interruptions in the trunk of the sympathetic nerve, have led some anatomists to consider the existence of this trunk as a circumstance of little im- portance. This opinion is exaggerated. However its roots are certainly in the spinal nerves, and not in the vidian nerve and the sixth pair. The branches of the sympathetic nerve not only differ from those of the other nerves, but also differ greatly from each other. * Walter, Tabulae nervorum thoracis ct abdominis. Berol. 1783 H. A. Wlisberff. De Ncrvis arteiia* vengjque comltantibus,—Dc Neivis pluiryngwis Dc Gaitgli'i jilc.vu. </'<« scmilunaii—De Ncrvis visccrim abdomlmilium, Sec. in Comment. Cutting ' Clmussier, Table tykoptfyie (hi rtcrf trisplunchniquc Lobstcin, De Ncrvi symjMt/iiti- ci httnuinijubiiid, usn ct morbis. Fiiris, 1823, 4tO. cum tttlHtlfS.