OF THE SKIN IN GENERAL. l.J(> afterwards by that of the atmosphere ; and Garangeot, to the hardening of the rete mucosum. All these opinions, and espe- cially the first and the last, contain some truth. It in fact re- sults from an exudation or excretion of the dermis. It is the in- durated surface of the corpus mucosum, so that from the dermis to the free surface of the epidermis, there is a successive degradation of organization and vitality, which reduces the epidermis to a kind of varnish, participating of organization and life only in its origin, which renders it well adapted for resisting the action of external bodies, and for protecting the vessels, nerves, and other parts of the skin. 311. The skin, formed by the dermis, the vessels and nerves which are distributed in its substance, and especially at its outer surface, the epidermis of which we have just been speaking, and the intervening rete mucosum, thus presenting a diminution of or- ganization and vitality from the dermis to the epidermis, partakes of the physical, chemical, and vital properties of these different parts. This is equally the case with its functions or organic ac- tions. 312. The skin, on account of the dry and not readily permeable epidermis which forms part of it, is not so well adapted as the mucous membrane for absorption and secretion. The skin, being furnished with its epidermis, in the entire state, the cutaneous absorption or cuticular absorption, as it is also call- ed, is in fact still a subject of doubt and discussion with physiolo- gists. To decide this question between Seguin, Currie, Klapp, Rousseau, Dangerfield, Chapman, Gordon, Magendie, &c. whose observations and experiments tend to invalidate the idea of cuta- neous absorption, and Keil, Haller, Perceval, Home, Cruickshank, Watson, Ford, Abernethy, JBichat, Duncan, Kellie, Brandner, Stuart, Sewal, &c. and especially Young, whose experiments and observations are favourable to it; it is necessary to make abstrac- tion of cases in which absorption may have taken place by respira- tion as well as by the skin, and they are numerous ; as well as of those in which the epidermis may have been softened, altered or injured by continued applications at its surface, or by repeated rub- bings ; in which circumstances absorption is no longer cuticu- lar, but rather of the same kind as that which is performed by the mucous membrane, or by inoculation, the matter of which is carried through a cut in the epidermis into the corpus mucosum as far as the dermis, both which parts are eminently absorbent. This done, there remains a small number of facts which show that certain substances are sometimes absorbed by the skin through the epidermis, in its entire state, but that this membrane is really an obstacle, and very frequently an efficacious one, to the absorbent erection of the external tegument. 313. The skin is also an organ of secretion and excretion. Two kinds of well known external secretion are performed in the mem branc, the cutaneous perspiration and the sebaceous follicular se