OF THE COMMON ADIPOSE TISSUE. 87 moved by washing. It is lighter than water. Its degree of fusi- bility varies according to its composition; in general, it is fluid at the temperature of the body, and even at a lower, sometimes at one so low as 15° R. It is insoluble in water and acid, and but slight- ly so in cold alcohol. The acid which Crell has admitted in it is the result of distillation, an operation in which the fat in fact fur- nishes carbonic, acetic, and cebacic acids, as well as several others produced by the reaction of its elements. It is converted by the action of the energetic alkaline bases into mild principle, and into margaric and oleic acids. By its exposure to air and light it be- comes rancid, giving out volatile acid, of a strong odour. The elementary composition of some fats has been examined by MM. Berard and Th. de Saussure. It is a combination, in dif- ferent proportions in different animals, of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. That of human fat has not been determined. Previously to the labours of M. Chevreul, * the fats passed for immediate principles. He has shown that they are essentially formed of two organic matters; stearine, which is fusible at about 50°, and elaine, which remains fluid at zero. It is from the pro- portion of these parts that the degree of fusibility of each kind of fat results. These two immediate principles are separated from each other, on treating the fat with boiling alcohol. By cooling, the greater part of the stearine is precipitated along with a little elaine, the latter remaining in solution in the alcohol along with a little elaine. They may also be isolated by the absorption of un- glued paper, which takes up the elaine, and leaves the stearine at its surface. 162. The fat of the adipose tissue is not the only fat matter that is met with in the animal organization, and in that of man in par- ticular. A crystallizable fat matter occurs in the blood. Mal- pighi, Haller, and others, had thought that free fat circulated with the blood. This is a mistake, at least I have never seen it; but M. Chevreul has lately discovered in the blood a fat matter which exists in it in solution, through the intervention of the other in- gredients of that humour. Butter is also a fat matter, possessed of colour and smell, which exists in solution in the milk. There is also in the nervous substance a crystallizable fat, similar to that of the blood. Lastly, in cases of disease, and in alterations pro- duced in the dead body, there are observed several other fat mat- ters. 163. The adipose tissue presents some differences in the animals. It exists in the greater number of them, being found in the articu- lated animals, the mollusca and the vertebrata. In the latter, the fat presents various degrees of consistence, coloration, &c. It is very fluid in fishes and the cetacea. The head of the Physeter ma- crocephalus contains a fluid oil, in which a concrete fat matter oc- curs. This is what is called spermaceti. The fat is soft in the • Annaks de C/iimic, T. XCIV Aim. de Clam, el dc P/iys. T. II. and VIr.