OF STONY CONCUKTIONS. 370 SECTION SECOND. OF STONY CONCRETIONS. 824. Concretions or Calculi* are solid bodies, more or less hard, which form in the humours contained in the cavities, the reservoirs, and the canals lined by the mucous membrane. This formation is always accompanied by a more or less evident change of com- position of the fluids in which it takes place. 825. Intestinal calculi are of rare occurrence in the human 6pecics. These calculi, which vary in size and number, are of a round or ovoidal form, and of a yellow or brown colour. Their specific gravity is 1.4. They have for their nucleus a ciliary cal- culus, indurated feces, or a foreign body. They are formed of layers, and composed of earthy matter, especially phosphate of lime, and a little animal substance. The mucous and sebaceous follicles sometimes contain indurated or more or less concrete bodies. Some cases are mentioned of small calculi of phosphate of lime and animal matter, in the caruncula lachrymalis, the tonsils and prostate gland. There have also sometimes been found stony concretions of the same nature in the lachrymal sac and duct, in the salivary glands and their ducts, and in the pancreas. 826. The biliary passages-f- are frequently the seat of calculi, cholelithi. They occur most commonly in the gall-bladder ; some- times in the cystic, hepatic, or choledochous ducts ; or in the in- testinal canal, and rarely in the roots of the hepatic ducts in the liver. The number and size of these calculi vary extremely. There have been found from one to several thousands in the same gall-bladder, and from the size of a hen's egg to that of a grain of millet seed. Their colour varies from white to yellow, brown and black. Their surface is rounded or furnished with facettes, po- lished or rough. Their consistence varies greatly. Their specific gravity is from 0.20 to 0.35. They are divided, since Walter's time, into three kinds or genera. The striated or radiated striata, the lamellar, lamellati; and those provided with a cortex, corti- cati. In the human species these calculi are formed of cholester- ine, yellow matter of the bile, and sometimes a little picromel. 827. The urinary calculi,} wolithi, occur in the pelvis of. the kidney, in the ureter, the mouth of that canal, the bladder, the urethra, the prepuce, in cells of the bladder, in the ducts of the prostate gland, and in accidental urinary cavities and passages. ■ Walter. Dc concrcmcntis tcrrcslrihns. Eerol. 17T5. Vicq. d'Azyr. Acad. Ray. de Medicine. 177!). M0SOVIU8, Dissert, de calculorum animalivm, corumqtte im- primis biliariorttm, origine el' iialurA. Ucrolini, 1812- f Soemmering. Dc concrcmentis biliariU corp. human. Traject. ad Morn. 1795. Tlie- naiid, Mem. de hi Sac. d'Arcvcil, vol. i. j Fourcroy and Vauquelin. Mem. dc VIntU Nat. t. iv. VTollaston. Phil. Tr.ins. 1797- &C.