IX LIFE OF BECLA11D. was said, fit for nothing, and neglected to procure for himself a prosperous futurity. The reason was, his secret intentions had not yet been interpreted, nor had the sti- mulus been applied to his emulation which it required ; but from the moment that his father, yielding to the in- fluence of good advice, and overcome by the solicitations of his son, who only wished to become a medical practi- tioner, permitted him to attend the lectures delivered in the secondary school of medicine established at the hos- pital of the city, and when the young student thus saw opening before him a career on which he ardently longed to enter, the torpor which had too long paralyzed his fa- culties ceased. It was in 1804 that he commenced the study of medi- cine ; and, by a circumstance which presented itself to give Beclard a consciousness of his powers, the situation of eleve interne at the hospital was for the first time laid open to competition. A pupil, who has since been lost in the crowd, had then a reputation which I may call brilliant, for each age has its celebrity, and was consider- ed as a formidable competitor. He was even already appointed to the vacant place by all the suffrages. How- ever, Beclard so surprised his judges by the extent of his knowledge and the precision of his language, that he was proclaimed victor. This was the first ray of his glory. During his residence at the hospital of Angers, he de- voted almost the whole of his time to the study of ana- tomy, which formed the object of his predilection. He exercised himself with the observation of the diseases which succeeded each other and varied indefinitely in an asylum open to all human miseries. He accustomed himself to perform the minor operations with address. He learned under experienced masters, among whom Mirault, whose name is recorded in the annals of the art, distinguished himself, to interpret with -sagacity and without prejudice the facts with which our science abounds, and from which one is often liable to draw