OF ANIMALS. 27 stomachs, sometimes furnished with hard parts, and intestines va- riously elongated. Most of them have salivary glands ; all, a vo- luminous liver, and many particular secretions. Their circulation is douhle: there is always at least one fleshy ventricle, which is aortic, receives the blood from the organs of respiration, and sends it into the arteries of the body. In those which have more than one ventricle, they are not united into a single mass, but form se- veral distinct hearts. The blood is of a bluish colour. The or- gans of respiration vary in so much that some respire air and others water. Generation also presents its varieties, some being without sexes, and producing living young without copulation, others hermaphrodite with reciprocal copulation, others again dis- tinguished into sexes. The eggs of those which have sexes have sometimes a mere viscosity for their envelope, at other times a shell more or less hard. These animals are possessed of great fe- cundity, and are very tenacious of life. Their muscles are at- tached to the interior of a soft and contractile skin. Their mo- tions are produced by parts destitute of solid levers. They are very irritable. Their naked skin is covered with a mucous hu- mour which exudes from it. Almost all of them have a develop- ment of their skin, which covers the body like a mantle, at the same time assuming various forms. Sometimes this mantle re- mains soft, but most commonly there are formed in its substance one or more laminae, sometimes of a horny nature, but generally calcareous. This substance is ordinarily of sufficient extent to en- able the animal to envelope itself entirely with it. This is what is called the shell. Many of these animals have no eyes, some have them in a rudimentary state, while in others they are highly developed. Their nervous system consists of medullary masses dispersed through the body, and of which the largest lies across the oesophagus, which it surrounds with a nervous collar. They possess little instinct, and most of them live in water. They pre- sent various degrees of organization : some are allied to the ra- diated animals, others to the articulated, while others approach the vertebrate animals by the complexity of their organization. 46. The acephalous mollusca without shells, or the tunicated mollusca, have some resemblance to the radiated animals. There are some which are collected into a common body, like polypi. Of these some are stellifbrm, the anuses being at the centre, and the mouths at the circumference ; others form a cylinder in which the anuses terminate, the mouths opening externally ; others have the viscera prolonged into a common mass, and the radiated mouth and the anus carried towards the free extremity of the body. There are others which only remain united long after their birth. When separated, they have the form of a contractile tube, open at both cuds. Others, again, which are fixed to the rocks, have the form of two tubes, the one inclosed within the other, and containing water in their interval. They all have an alimentary canal with two orifices, branchiae, a liver, a heart, and ovaries, or internal