53 OF THE ORGANS. nerves, vessels, and viscera, together with some other kinds, is well known. But these genera of organs comprehend parts which are compound, and some which are so in a high degree; and, on the other hand, these genera, and especially that of the viscera, con- tain organs very different from each other, which destroys all the advantages of their classification. M. Pinel in France, and Car- michael Smith,* in England, having observed that the simple tis- sues which enter into the composition of dissimilar or compound parts might become diseased, and especially might be affected by inflammation separately, and that their inflammation is the same, of whatever compound organ they form a part, paved the way to a more complete anatomical analysis of the organization than that which had previously been made, especially with respect to the viscera. Bichat,f developing this fecund idea, worthy of his ge- nius, classed all the simple organs under the name of tissues or systems, into twenty-one genera. M. Chaussier has arranged the organs under twelve genera, the twelfth comprehending the viscera or compound organs. Various authors have since modified the1 classifications of these two anatomists, although they have always adopted their principal bases.J 89- Amid all these variations, the following is a classification or division of the organs into genera according to their anatomical,' chemical, physiological, and pathological characters taken together: The cellular tissue, the principal and universal element of the organization, merits the first rank. It exists in the whole organic kingdom, enters into all the organs, and forms the basis of the whole organization. This tissue, a little modified in its consistence, its form, and the proportion of earthy matter which it contains, forms several other kinds of organs. Disposed in the form of membranes closed on all sides, in the substance of which there is more firmness and less permeability, it constitutes the serous and synovial systems. It also forms the tegumentary tissue, which comprehends the skin and the mucous membranes, as well as the follicles of these two kinds of membranes and the organs which produce the hairs, the teeth, &c. It is the same also with the elastic tissue, which forms the base of the vascular system, which comprehends the arteries, the veins, and the lymphatic vessels, and which also belongs to the same or- der, approaching in its nature to the muscular tissue. The glandular system, which is formed by the union of the te- gumentary and vascular systems, also belongs to the same order of organs. * On Inflammation in Medical Communications, v. ii. f Anatomic Generate, appliquie a la physiologic el la Medicine, par Xav. Bichaf.. } See almost all the works on anatomy and physiology published since 1801, and in particular, J. F. Meckel, llattdbuch tier Mcnschlichcn Anatomic, Ester Band, yitgcmemc Anatomic, Halle und Berlin, 181.5. J. Gordon, System of Human Anato- niy. yol. i. Edin. 1815. P. Mascagni, Prodromo deltagrande unatomia, Fircitse. 181& G Meyer, Opine, til.