345 OF THE NEKVES IN GENEUAI . question has readily been answered in the affirmative, for the pur- pose of explaining pathological phenomena, in which the cause and the effect, both seated in the nervous system, presented a kind of crossing. The following is what we learn on this subject from in- spection. There is no perceptible crossing in the nerves of the spinal marrow. It is the same with those which come from the medulla oblongata, excepting perhaps the optic nerves, in which a partial crossing at least appears to exist. Authors, in fact, are not agreed respecting the mode of union of these nerves. Their crossing, which has been admitted by some and denied by others, is evident in fishes, but in man, although in most cases, atrophy of one of these nerves is continued on the opposite side, observers worthy of credit assert their having seen it continued on the same side. Nor does dissection show that the crossing takes place in all the fibres, so that the opinion of those who think it to be only partial is the most probable. But, setting this exception aside, the crossing of the nerves has by no means been demonstrated. We may say as much respecting that of the two sides of the brain and cerebellum, which has been admitted. The anterior pyramids alone show this disposition, which accounts for the circumstance that, in injuries of the brain, the symptoms show themselves on the opposite side of the spinal marrow. When the latter also is divided below the place where the intercrossing of the pyramids exist, the symptoms appear on the same side. Another question which has engaged the attention of anatomists is, whether the nerves unite in the median line by commissures like those which occur between the corresponding sides of the cerebrum and cerebellum. This union is evident only in the pathetic nerves. The auditory nerves are also sometimes united, at their origin, by white striae, which line the bottom of the fourth ventricle, but these striae are far from being constant, and are generally wanting in youth. The nerves arise almost all deeply from the grey substance, and not from the white, which covers the grey, and under which they merely sink. In the spinal marrow the nerves when pulled off leave a depression which shows that they were not merely attached to the surface; and when the spinal marrow is hardened, we can follow the roots of the nerves and see them traversing the longitu- dinal fibres of that organ, to be inserted into the grey substance. Within the skull this disposition is equally evident with respect to most of the nerves. The auditory nerves alone have their origin at the surface of the medulla oblongata, but there is a grey substance at the place whence they rise, only it is superficially placed; it forms the grey band. The nerves of the spinal marrow arise by two roots, an anterior and a posterior, as has already been said. The comparative volume of these two roots respecting which there has been much diversity of opinion, and which Dr. (jail has said to be greater in the posterior root, is in reality so only in the brachial nerves, the contrary being the case in the crural nerves. These