OF THE BONES. £08 ' See Soemmering, Qc Corporis. Hum. fubricd, T. 1, De Ossib^a, perforated with borne canals of blood-vessel* which tend towards the osseous centre. The osseous point continually increases by growth at its surface, and also by interstitial addition in its sub- stance. The cartilage, successively perforated by cavities and canals lined by sheaths of blood-vessels, gradually diminishes in proportion as the bone increases, and at length disappears. The canals of the cartilage themselves, which are very wide at the com- mencement of ossification, become smaller and smaller, and at length disappear when it is completed. In the place of a cartilage more or less thick, but at first full or solid, without cavities and without distinct vessels, at a later period perforated with canals lined by vascular and secreting membranes, there is found a very vascular bone, full of areolar or spongy cavities, invested with membranes and filled with adipose marrow. The bone afterwards becomes less vascular as age advances. 592. The cause of ossification, like that of organic formation in general, is unknown. From Hippocrates and Aristotle to Scarpa, Bichat, and Mascagni, a multitude of more or less ingenious hy- potheses have been proposed on this obscure subject.* It has been said, that the last divisions of the arteries ossify, or are filled up with bony matter, and that after being filled with bony matter, they burst, and allow it to escape around them. It has also been said, and with more probability, that they form, and allow to escape the ossifying matter, whether by exhalant extremi- ties, or by lateral porosities. But what is this bony matter ? Is it earthy substance ? Where do the arteries pour forth this substance f Is it in the interstitial areolae of a cartilage, as has commonly been said since the time of Herissant ? or in absorbent vessels which are filled up, as Mascagni alleged ? These are so many mere hypo,- theses. All that is known is this;—that the vascularity greatly increases before ossification, and that it always precedes that pra- cess; that the cartilage diminishes and disappears in proportion as the bone forms and augments; and that the bone, which is highly vascular at the period of its formation, becomes afterwards less and less so, As to the state in which the bony substance is deposited, it is under the fluid form, and its successive hardening depends either upon the continual addition of a greater proportion of earthy substance, or upon the absorption of the vehicle which gave it its fluidity. Ossification does not depend upon the deposition of the earthy substance in an organic tissue, but upon the simultaneous formation of a tissue containing at once both the animal substance and the earthy substance. The phenomena of ossification are different in the different kinds «f bones. 593. Ossification takes place at a very early period in the long bones, commencing in them from one to two months after concep*