OF ANIMALS. 23 as the simplest of the polypi, and others mueh more complicated. The mouth is central, furnished with tentacula, and leads to a stomach, which is frequently branched, but which has no other issue. For generation there are masses of ovariform internal buds in particular cavities. 36. The Echinodermata are the radiated animals whose organ- ization is most complicated. In this class we find the stellular, spheroidal and cylindrical forms. They have an internal cavity in which there float distinct viscera. Their intestine has prolonga- tions resembling vessels, which are ramified in the body.. Some of them have a distinct anus. The organs of respiration are ra- mified aquiferous canals; those of generation are ovariform masses of internal buds which end at the mouth or anus. They have muscles, and in most of them there are particular organs for mo- tion, consisting of numerous tentacula terminated by cups, and which are called feet. The skin is well organized, and often solid. Some of them have even nervous filaments. 37. The Articulate Animals constitute a division of the ani- mal kingdom in which the body is symmetrical, divided externally into a certain number of rings or segments moveable upon each other, and formed by the more or less firm and sometimes hard skin, excepting in the intervals of the rings, where it always pre- serves its softness and flexibility. Their muscles are attached in- ternally to the skintheir nerves are cords which swell at inter- vals, and are situated beneath the intestinal canal. This type comprises organizations extremely diversified ; some are vermiform, destitute of head, and reduced to the motion of creeping; of which kind are the vermes and annelides. 38. The Intestinal Worms or Helmintha, which, in some re- spects, present an affinity to the radiata, have, in general, the body elongated, cylindrical or depressed, naked and soft. They have no organ of respiration or circulation. Their generation is inter- nal gemmiparous, and sexual oviparous. They inhabit the bodies ■of other animals. Very different degrees of organization are pre- sented by them. The most simple of all, the cestoid species, (the Ligula?) resemble a long striated ribbon, marked with a longitudi- nal line. No external organ is perceived in them, not even suckers ; and internally there is nothing but oviform corpuscles in the mass of the body. Others whose forms are very diversified (the Tre- matodes and Toenioid species) have only at their exterior suckers varying in number, sometimes ramified in the body, which also present other gemmiferous or ovariferous canals. The Acantho- cephali (Echinorhynchi) have a proboscis armed with hooks to which muscles are attached. They have two small intestines with- out apertures, and are also furnished with distinct oviducts or spermatic receptacles according to the sexes, which are separated. The Ncmatoid species, as the Ascarides, &c. have a still more complex organization. They have a mouth, an anus, and an in- testinal canal floating in a distinct abdominal cavity. Their ex-