OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 211 branching of a tree, as the other vessels have. The humours which they contain pass through them, as in the veins, from the ramifications, or rather from the roots, towards the trunks. The aggregate of these vessels consists of a principal trunk and an accessory trunk, in which terminate numberless roots. 46*2. Lymphatic vessels occur in all parts of the body, except- ing the spinal marrow, the encephalon, the eye, and the placenta. Their situation has this much remarkable, that in the limbs and in the walls of the trunk, they are, like the veins, distributed in two planes, the one superficial or subcutaneous, the other inter- muscular or deep, which accompanies the blood-vessels and nerves; and that in the splanchnic cavities there occur, in like manner, a plane of lymphatic vessels situated immediately under the serous membranes, and others more deeply seated. 463. The number of lymphatic vessels is very considerable : so many as twenty are counted in the superficial plane of the lower extremities to accompany the inner saphena vein alone, and a less great, but still considerable number, to accompany the deep ves- sels. The superficial lymphatics are of smaller size than the deep- seated. The volume of these vessels is much less than that of the veins. Those of the inferior extremities are larger than those of the upper extremities. Those of the head are very small. As to their total capacity, it has not been exactly determined. It appears in general to be about double that of the arteries, and to equal that of the veins in the superficial plane at least. 464. The origin of the lymphatic vessels is invisible and un- known. Physiological considerations and anatomical experiments have given rise to the admission, and afterwards to the rejection of their direct and immediate continuity with the arteries. It has also been seen above that their origin by open orifices at the sur- face of the two teguments and serous membranes, in the areola? of the cellular tissue, and in the substance of the organs, which had been admitted through considerations and experiments of the same kind, is not better proved. 465. As soon as they can be perceived, the radicles of the lymphatic vessels are seen to unite together, to separate, and unite anew, so as to form net-works which form in a great measure the serous, tegumentary and other membranes. These vessels become in general larger and less numerous as they recede from their origin. In their course they continue to divide into branches which unite anew with other neighbouring branches, or even with each other, so as to form islands. These divisions, unitings, and numerous anastomoses, form in many places plexuses. When they are full and somewhat distended they appear rather moniliform than cylindrical. It is the great number of valves with which they are furnished, and the dilatation which they present above these valves, that gives them this necklace appearance. They also pretty frequently present ovoidal dilatations. They