319 OF THE EXTERNAL MUSCLES. ""(ill] ii J re. I Sift. rt the mtl5cIes ^-^ organs of sense, whicb 10D; But just as scnsa- from the nenous centre to the muscle, for put-1 in the other, there is, mprehensible; which is, ? Airnw/ed^e of tie sen- 'eteraiinfJ tie volition.' heyetinsobblenucs- tontliewous centre, es the coutracuon of the: nterruptcdbyatightli-; ns irritable, no bge Inter ***** fid*** fixed; and, in tending to become so, tbey diminish the cavities of which they form the walls; as is the case with the abdominal mus- tcles and diaphragm with respect to the abdomen; and they enlarge tthe cavity to which they correspond by their convex surface; as tthe diaphragm does with respect to the thorax. The reflected tmnscles, and they are very numerous, tend, like the curved mus- tclcs, to become straight during their contraction; but if any in- surmountable obstacle comes in the way, the motion, the direction tof which is changed, is transmitted to one or otber extremity, or to Iboth, according to their mobility. 728. When one of the parts to which a muscle is attached, is i immoveable, the other capable of being moved, it draws the latter (towards the former; as is tbe case with the muscles which extend tfrom the bones to the soft parts, &c. When one of the two parts lhas little mobility, and the other is very mobile, as the trunk with 1 reference to the limbs, the central extremities of the limbs with re- ference to the peripheric extremity, &c. the latter is in general the 1 only one that moves. But it is to be observed, then, in this case, that 1 the fixed point, and the moveable point of the muscles may change. 'Thus, in the most ordinary motions of the arm, the muscles which imove that part have their fixed point in the trunk, and their moveable point in the limb. On the contrary, in the action of 1 climbing up a tree, the fixed point, at the moment when the trunk rises towards the arm which was previously fixed, is in the arm, ; and the moveable point in the trunk. So also, in the action of go- ing up a ladder, when the leg is carried forwards and upwards, the fixed point is in the trunk. When afterwards the trunk rises to- wards the leg of which the foot is supported, the fixed point is in the leg, and the moveable points of the muscles are in the thigh and trunk. When the two parts to which the muscles are attached are near- ly equally mobile, contraction tends to move them about equally. 1 Thus when one is lying upon a horizontal plane, the contraction of the anterior muscles of the trunk tends nearly equally to bend the head upon the neck, and the pelvis upon the loins. In this case and in the preceding, which are of extremely fre- quent occurrence in the animal mechanism,* the part which is to serve as a fixed point is retained by the contraction of other muscles which render it motionless. The motions apparently the most simple almost always require the simultaneous action of a greater number of other muscles than those which are destined to produce them immediately. 729. It is in efforts especially that we observe these muscular synergies. An effort,*f- nistls, is any muscular action of extraordinary in- ft" * Winslow, Mem. de VAcutl. des Sc., 1719-23.2G-29.30-39-40, &e. ■f Js. Bourdon, Rechcrchcs sur Ic mccanisme de la respiration et de la circulation du sang, I'aris, 1820—J. Cloquct, DeVinfluence des efforts sur les organcs renferm&s dans la caviU thorachiqnc, Paris, 1820 Magcndie, Du ("influence des mouvemens dc la pbU tiiue, ct des efforts, sur la circulation du sang. Journal do Physiologic, vol. i.