l'H OF THE SKIN IN GENERAL. Acadcm. Annul. Lib. i. cap. i—v. i .(if it purely cellular, others ligamentous. M. Osiander* lias recently maintained that it is distinctly muscular at the inner surface of the skin. He made his observations on the skin of the abdomen of women who died in child-birth. The tissues which it most re- sembles in its general characters, arc the cellular tissue and the fibrous tissue. 300. The dermis is white. Its outer surface has more or less of a reddish tint, according to the quantity of blood retained in its minute vessels. Its thickness is not the same in all parts, but va- ries from a line and a half to the fourth of a line. In the trunk, it is generally thicker at the posterior than at the anterior part, and in the limbs, at the outer part than at the inner. The dermis is in particular very thin in the palpebree, the mamma", and the organs of copulation; very thick, on the contrary, in the palm of the hand, and especially in the sole of the foot. It has a kind of semi- transparence which allows the colour of the subcutaneous veins to be seen through the skin. It possesses a power of cohesion which adapts it for making very strong ligatures in the mechanical arts. In the arts of the tanner, currier, &c, it is submitted to various operations which prevent it from putrefying, and increase its den- sity or flexibility, &c. It naturally contains a great quantity of moisture, the removal of which renders it yellow and clastic. By boiling, it is reduced to glue or gelatin. Besides its extensibility and retractility, which are very great and remain after death, it possesses during life a very evident power of tonic contraction, al- though in a much smaller degree than the muscles. It is this con- traction which roughens the skin in cold weather. It is at its outer surface that the sense of touch resides. The dermis forms the sup- port of the rest of the skin, and it is at its surface that the corpus mucosum exists. 301. The Corpus mucosum of Malpighi,-j- corpus reticulare or rate glutinosum Malpighianum, is a very thin layer of half fluid cellular tissue, which invests the papillar surface of the dermis, se- parates it from the epidermis, adheres intimately to both, and is the part which gives the skin its colour. This portion of the skin, first pointed out by Malpighi, accurately observed by Meckel and Albinus, and admitted by most anatomists, at least in the negro ; although denied by several of them, and in particular by Bichat, Chaussier, Gordon and Rudolphi, cannot in truth be isolated by dissection, but may be perceived under various circumstances. Whenever the epidermis separates from the dermis, whether dur- ing life, or in the dead body, there is distinguished on one or other, and sometimes on both of these membranes, a mucous layer which covers the papillar eminences and fills up their intervals. This intermediate membrane is in particular very distinct in the * Coinmentatumct Gnilingenscs Rcccntiorcs. Vol. iv. 1820. "" •r See Meckel) Rcchcichcn amtomiqnes tur la Nature tk V Epidemic el du Rcscau qitoit appeUa M ilpilighkn. .Mem. de t'Aead. roy. des sciences de Berlin, 1753. Albinus,