OF THE ARTICULATIONS. 2S5 spongy substance communicates from the one bone to the other. The compact plates, the diarthrodial cartilages, the synovial mem- brane and the synovia, which separated the spongy part of the two bones, have disappeared. Immobility continued for a great length of time, but especially a certain degree of inflammation, whether originally in the synovial membrane, or at first in the ligaments and the other surrounding parts, induce these changes. Some- times they commence by an agglutination of the synovial mem- brane, and the formation between its surfaces of cellular tissue or fibrous bridles which may become ossified at a later period. Some- times the articulation being laid open by a wound or the effect of an abscess, it is by suppurative granulations that the agglutination is established. In both cases, the diarthrodial cartilages are gra- dually absorbed before the osseous union takes place. All the diarthroses are susceptible of anchylosis, but the ginglymi more than the others. Anchylosis sometimes affects several articulations. All the diar- throses and amphiarthroses have even been seen to be successively affected by it, and the skeleton has thus become a single inflexible mass. M. Percy has deposited in the Museum of the Faculty of Paris a skeleton which presents this general anchylosis of all the articulations. 639- At other times, the causes of alteration of which we speak determine the superficial necrosis or usure of the articular surfaces. It is in cases of this kind that excision of the articular extremities of the bones has been practised.* At other times, the adhesion of the articulation remains cellular or fibrous, with a little mobility. Sometimes the destroyed cartilage is reproduced. At other times it is replaced by the transformation of the subjacent bony plate into ivory or enamel. In cases of this kind spontaneous luxation of the bones sometimes occurs. I have seen a singular displacement of the hip-joint, depend- ing no doubt upon chronic inflammation. In this case the upper part of the articular cavity seems to have yielded to the pressure of the head of the femur, after having been softened. The cavity which has become oval, is greatly elongated arid hol- lowed out at its upper part, where it lodges the head of the femur,, while the lower part of the same cavity which lodged it before is contracted and superficial. I have observed this change some- times on one side only, and sometimes symmetrically produced on both sides at once. 640. All the diseases of the diarthrodial articulations belong to each or to several of the parts of which they are formed, to their serous membranes, their cartilages, their ligaments, and to the ar- ticular parts of the bones. " H. Park. Account of a New Method of Treating Diseases of the Enee and Elhow. London, 1783. Moreau, De la Resection des O.t, &c. Paris, 1816. J. Jeffray. Cases of the Excision of Carious Joints by II. Park and P. P. Moreau> with Observations. Glasgow, 1806.—Wachter. DUs. de Articul. Extirp. Gronin- gue, 1810. — Houx. De la Resection, &c. Paris, 1812.