0I> THE NERVOUS SYSTEAf." 326 has already been seen that G. Bartholin removed the nervous cen- tre to the spinal marrow, which he did from the consideration that fishes have a very large spinal marrow, and a very small cncepha- lon, and yet that these animals possess a great power of motion. Bichat, developing some ideas that had been vaguely emitted re- specting the action of the ganglia, proposed two distinct nervous centres, the one (the cerebral, or encephalic and spinal) subservi- ent to the sensations accompanied with consciousness, intellect, and voluntary motion; the other (the ganglionary) subservient to the functions which are performed without consciousness or the control of the will. In this latter he at the same time placed the seat of the passions. M. Olivier considers the nervous system as a vast net-work embracing the whole animal, and furnished with numerous centres and communicating cords. ])r. Gall divides the nervous system of animal life into those of the spinal marrow, the organs of sense, and those of the brain and cerebellum. M. de Blainville considers the nervous system as divided into as many parts as there are great functions, and defines it masses or ganglia and filaments, some issuing forth and going into the organ which they are to animate, which forms the particular life; others enter- ing, and all terminating in a central mass, establishing the general life, and giving rise to the sympathies and relations. The central part, according to this ingenious physiologist, is the spinal marrow ; another part comprises the ganglia of the organs of sense and mo- tion ; a third those of the viscera, viz. the cardiac and semilunar or cceliac ganglion ; the fourth and last comprehends the greaS sympathetic nerve, which forms a centre to the visceral ganglia, and which, by the intervention of the ganglia of sensation and motion, connects them with the central mass. All these divisions, which may be justified by various considera- tions, are not yet so precise or distinct as their authors allege. In man, the encephalon or some one of its parts, the medulla oblongata, where it is embraced by the pons varolii, is certainly a centre to which the functions of all the other parts of the nervous system are more or less subject. In reality, in some of its functions, the spinal marrow may be considered as a centre having little depend- ence upon any other, which is also the case with the ganglia, and with the nerves themselves, for each part of the system is not re- duced to the entirely passive office of a conductor. This inde- pendence of the nerves, the still greater independence of the ganglia, and the yet more decided independence of the spinal mar- row, vary according as we consider them with reference to any par- ticular function, in certain kinds of animals, and in man himself in the different stages of his development. These propositions, which may be considered as laws of innervation, will be developed as we proceed. At present it is sufficient to remark that there is no point of ab- solute separation among the parts of the nervous system. We