866 OF THE GANGLIA AND SYMPATHETIC NERVE. the most intimate adhesion and union of the secondary substance, together with a pretty firm capsule, adhering strongly to the inter- nal substance. In the spinal ganglia, on the contrary, the me- dullary filaments are straight and do not intermingle, and the se- condary substance is coarse, loose, and very distinct from the fila- ments. Accordingly, these ganglia are considered as less perfect than the others, and Pfeffinger thought that they ought to be ex- cluded from this class of organs. The function of these ganglia is also very doubtful. It does not, in fact, appear that they diminish the nervous communication, nor can they be considered as the common origins of the nerves of motion and sensation, for the an- terior root of the spinal nerves is unconnected with them. 816. The uses of the ganglionary nervous cords are to conduct the nervous influence, but they are somewhat different conductors from the other nerves, from which they differ in greatly resembling the ganglia. They are imperfect conductors. Mechanical or che- mical irritations do not pass along them, but galvanic irritation is conducted by them, and determines sensations and contractions. It is the same with morbid irritations, as intestinal ureteric irritations, which are felt. The functions of the sympathetic nerve are to direct nutrition and the secretions; to distribute the nervous agent to the heart, the digestive canal and the urinary and genital organs, and to es- tablish a sympathetic connexion among all the principal organs. It performs these different functions without the influence of the will, and without the consciousness of impressions, the ganglia per- forming at once the office of ligatures, which moderate the trans- mission of the nervous influence, and particular centres of activity, which augment and modify its distribution. The sympathetic nerve thus forms a particular system in the ge- neral system. It has a sphere of action of its own contained in the general sphere. The two nervous systems are intimately connect- ed, and exert a reciprocal action, especially in the state of disease. 817- M. Lobstein has collected several curious facts respecting the morbid alterations of the sympathetic ganglia and nerves. He has observed inflammation of the semilunar or coeliac ganglia in cases of chronic abdominal affections of the nerves, hooping-cough, and tetanus. He also observed it in various cases of inflammation of the cardiac and pulmonary nerves. M. Autenrieth has also ob- served inflammation of the par vagum, sympathetic and cardiac nerves in hooping cough. Dr. Duncan has seen the abdominal portion of the sympathetic nerves enlarged to three or four times its natural size in a case of diabetes. The sympathetic nerves, like the others, are enlarged in hypertrophic, and, on the contrary, di- minished in simple atrophies, as well as in those, which result from an infiltrated accidental production in the tissue of an organ. Many abdominal and thoracic diseases seem moreover to depend upon an irregular action of the sympathetic nerve, and others, also very numerous, upon the abnormal action of that nerve upon the cerebral nervous centre.