28 INTRODUCTION. buds, which, without copulation, produce living young. All of them have also nervous ganglia and filaments. 47- The Cirripcda form a small group of animals intermediate between the mollusca and articulata. Their shortened body, with- out head or transverse rings, is furnished with a mantle and a multivalve shell, which resemble those of the acephalous mollusca. They have lateral jaws at the mouth, and along the belly articu- lated appendages, disposed in pairs, with a horny skin, which re- semble the fin-feet of the tail of certain Crustacea, and which are named cirri. The stomach is furnished with numerous small cells which appear to perform the office of a liver. The intestine is simple. They have a dorsal heart and lateral branchiae, together with a double ovary or aggregation of internal buds, and a serpen- tine canal for the passage of the young outwards. These animals are sessile or pedunculate, but always fixed. Their nervous sys- tem is a series of ganglia under the belly. 48. The Acephalous mollusca, or Conchifera, have the body des- titute of head, containing all the viscera, and wholly enveloped, like a book in its cover, by the mantle which is folded in two, and provided with a calcareous shell, which is generally bivalve, al- though sometimes multivalve. The mouth is furnished with ten- tacular folia concealed under the mantle ; the anus is in like man- ner concealed at the other extremity. There are four very large branchial laminae. The liver is of great size, and embraces the stomach and part of the intestine, which latter varies greatly. The foot, when it exists, is attached between the four branchiae; it is a fleshy mass, which moves in the manner of the tongue in the mammifera. The heart is generally single, aortic, and situated on the side next the back. They have one or two muscles which close the shell, and an elastic ligament which opens it. They have a principal ganglion situated above the mouth, united by two nervous cords to another opposite ganglion, together with several other nerves and ganglia. They produce living young, without copulation. The Branchiopoda are other acephalous mollusca, existing in small number, which, in place of feet, have two fleshy arms. They appear to have two aortic hearts, and a folded intestine which sur- rounds the liver. Their mode of generation, and their nervous sysr tem, are not very well known. 49. The Gasteropoda are cephalatcd mollusca, which generally creep upon a fleshy disk, placed under the belly, and whose back is covered by the mantle, which varies in extent and figure, and which generally produces a univalve or multivalve shell. There are mollusca in this class, whose organs of respiration and shell are not symmetrical. The head, placed anteriorly, and more or less disengaged from the mantle, is commonly furnished with tentacula to the number of two, four, or six, placed above the mouth, which Constitute organs of touch, sight, and perhaps smell. There arc