INTRODUCTION. C4 loins and pelvis. The arms are long, especially the fore-arm ; the hands small, the feet large and flat; the knee and foot are turned outwards ; the head is narrow and elongated; the lower part of the face is prominent; the nose is flattened ; the fore-teeth are ob- lique, and the lips thick ; the skin, the iris and the hair are black; the latter is curled or woolly, and the beard is thin. 115. The American race has less decided anatomical characters, and seems intermediate between the Caucasian and Negro races. The skin is copper-coloured, the hair black, straight and fine, and the beard thin or wanting. 116. The Malay race, like the American, does not possess very distinct anatomical characters, and appears intermediate between the Caucasian and Mongolian. In this race, the skin is brown or yellowish, and the hair thick and curled. 117- Fabulous varieties have been admitted in the human spe- cies, which we must here pass over in silence. Albinos are the re- sult of a morbid alteration.* In each race there occur varieties which are more or less distinct. In the different countries of the globe, even such as are very near each other, there is generally ob- served a national character, at least in the physiognomy. But more than this, in each race, in each nation, and even in much more limited divisions, there sometimes occur individuals very dif- ferent from others. Thus it is not rare to find in the Negro race all the anatomical and physiological characters of the Caucasian race, excepting the colour ; and the same may be remarked of the other races. The varieties also blend together by insensible gra- dations. These varieties, therefore, in the species, must only be considered as accidental dilferences, whose causes, indeed, are not easy to be determined; but, in such a matter, how short, and, consequently imperfect, are our observations, for determining the conditions of a phenomenon in producing which nature has not spared time."f* ALTERATIONS OF THE ORGANIZATION. 118. The human body does not always arrive at the final term of its existence by a progressive change of organization. Most commonly the development is arrested, or deviates from the esta- blished order; or the organization, after being regularly developed, becomes altered by the action of external agents. The body thus altered in its conformation, texture, and composition, is the subject * This opinion appears to liave been first a theory of Blumenbach's, and notwith- standing his respectable authority, is a mere theory. It is true that albino varieties in men possess very generally but feeble intellect, butneither is this constant. The albino varieties in other animals, and which are extremely numerous speaking with a re- ference to species, such as the horse, the ox, the elephant, &c. are not observed to show any inferiority as to vigour from the coloured individual of the same species. K. + See an admirable Letter on this subject addressed by Dr. Edwards to the Count Thierry, Paris, 1829.