INTRODUCTION. 10 also keep the former in dependence upon themselves, the organs of the animal functions requiring to be nourished in order to perforin their functions, and these functions determining the exercise of the organs of the vegetative functions. In this manner, in the animals which are high in the scale of organization, life seems essentially to result from the reciprocal action of the vegetative functions, and of the principal organ of the animal functions, of the circulation and of the nervous action, or of the action of the blood upon the ner- vous system, and of the nervous system upon the organs which move the blood. The other phenomena keep up these two princi- pal actions, which may be considered as the two essentially vital ac- tions of animals. 15. To all these characters, the first very general or common, and the last much less general, are to be added the derangements of the organization and of the phenomena of life, in other words dis- eases, which are much more frequent in animals than in vegetables. The reason of this frequency will easily be found in the complexity of their organization, the connexion of all the parts with each other, and the exercise of central and predominant organs whose action cannot be disturbed without inducing derangement in all the others. Whence the study of the circumstances and external ob- jects that act in a useful or injurious manner upon the animal organization, and the act of preserving or restoring health by the well directed use of external influences, or the science of me- dicine. Such are the most general characters of animals ; but these beings present in their organs and functions a multitude of va- riations or of degrees of complication which it is of importance to examine. 16. The external form or configuration which is capable of giv- ing an idea of the structure, of which it is in some degree the ex- pression, presents the following varieties. Some animals are punc- tiform or globular, as the Monads; others have the form of a fila- ment, as the Vibrio ; some have a flattened form like that of a small membrane, of which kind are the Cyclides; last, others be- longing, like the last mentioned, to the group of Infusoria, have no determinate form, the configuration changing each moment in the most singular manner, as is the case with the Protei. These ele- mentary forms, which belong to all the most simple animals, recur in some animals of a higher order, and in certain parts of all the others. This is equally observed of the stellular or radiated form which belongs to a certain number of classes of animals, and which occurs in various parts of those which have a different external form. The radiated form begins to show itself in the Rotiferae and in the other Polypi. In the Acalepha and Echinodermata, the radiated form is not confined to the exterior, which resembles a radiated flower or a star, but all the parts are disposed around an axis, and upon a greater or less number of rays. In other animals, the axis