279 OF THE ARTICULATIONS. SECOND SECTION. OF THE ARTICULATIONS. 623. The Articulations, Artkuli, "Agdga, are the joinings of the bones. The term comprehends the manner in which they meet, and are fitted to each other, and that in which they are mutually connected. The long bones meet and are joined to each other by their ex- tremities ; the broad bones commonly by their edges ; the short bones, by various points of their surface. The articular parts of the bones are most commonly prominences and depressions of dif- ferent forms, and which are adapted to each other. The means of union are cartilages, cartilaginiform ligaments, and fibrous ligaments. They are placed, either between surfaces which they connect, and thus render continuous, or around surfaces which remain in contact. The articulations have for their common use, to connect the bones, and thus form them into a united whole, the skeleton. Of the articulations some are moveable and others not so in a sensible degree, although none of them, strictly speaking, is inca- pable of motion. According to the form of the articular parts, the mode of union of these parts, and their solidity and mobility variously combined, the articulations are divided into three genera, and into several spe- cies and varieties, which have been uselessly multiplied ; the syn- arthrosis, or continuous and immoveable articulation; the diar- throsis, or contiguous and moveable articulation; and the amphi- arthrosis, or mixed articulation, which is continuous like the first, and moveable like the second. Each articulation has a proper name, composed of the names of the bones which occur united in it. 624. Synarthrosis*, or the immoveable articulation, results from the union of all the bones of the skull and face, excepting the low- er jaw, by edges more or less thick, and furnished with inequalities which fit into each other, often dovetailed, and always invested with a synarthrodial cartilage intimately united to the two articu- lated parts. The periosteum, in passing from the one to the other bone over the intervening cartilage, also unites these three parts, to which it intimately adheres. This kind of articulation, which is very solid, has no sensible motion. It favours the growth of the broad bones by their edges. It is often obliterated in old age. Its disunion requires efforts of the same kind and violence as those which fracture the bones. • Duverney. Lcttre eontcnant Plusieurs NouveUcs Observations tur VOsteologic- Paris, 1689—F. G. Hunauld. Rech. Anat. sw les os du Crane <le VHomme. Acad, des Sc. 1730—E. G. Bose. Program, de Suturar. Cranii Humani Fabricat. ct usu- Lips. 1763. Gibson on the Use of Sutures in the Skulls of Animals, in Mem. of the Soc. of Manchester, 2d Series, vol. i. 1805.