OF THE MEDULLARY TISSUE. 95 ilbumen, or a coagulablc substance. Birds bave air in place of marrow in the cavities of tlie long bones, as Camper first remarked. 177. The functions of the medullary tissue are to serve as an mternal periosteum ; and a reservoir of fat. It is upon it that the vessels ramify, which, on the one hand, proceed outwards to carry iimtrition to the bone, and, on the other, direct themselves inwards jLo secrete the fat. The latter has the same general uses as n the other parts. Its local use is to fill up the vacuity which, without it, would exist in the bones. It has been supposed, and Haller and Blumenbach have adopted this opinion, that it renders he bones more flexible ; but the bones of children, although des- ;itute of fat, are less brittle than those of grown up persons, while he bones of old people, in which the fat is so abundant, are in general very fragile. Those who have advanced this opinion ipround it upon the circumstance that combustion deprives the bony uubstance of all its solidity. It is evident, however, that it is not :l:he oil alone which they lose in this case, but rather the animal ijnnatter which is expelled from them, on which the solidity depend- ed. The same authors add that by boiling in oil, or in gelatine, ihe earthy residuum obtained by combustion, its solidity is restored dd a certain degree; but these then form a peculiar compound, a and of putty which has no resemblance to bone. Haller and se- veral other physiologists have also thought that the marrow was subservient to the reproduction of the bones, and especially to the formation of callus. Observation, however, shows that a fracture meals with so much the more celerity, the younger the individual -s. Now, the younger an individual is, the less marrow he has, L<Dr the less fat does his marrow contain. Duverney and others have hhought the marrow necessary for the nutrition of the bones. To >oe convinced that this opinion is not admissible, it is sufficient to rceflect that the marrow is wanting in various animals, as birds, that .i;he horns of stags, for example, are destitute of it, that it does not \;xist in childhood, and that the bones are formed before the mar- row. It has also been regarded as the reservoir of latent caloric ;and electricity. Nor does the marrow, as some have imagined, •aerve to lubricate the articular surfaces, for the synovia exists in many places where the marrow is not met with. 17H. The marrow presents some morbid alterations.* In frac- ures, while the bone is consolidating, the fat disappears in the nmedullary canal; the cellular tissue of this canal becomes com- pact, as in other cases of solution of continuity, and at length os- nifies. This latter fact, which Bichat first observed, has been con- firmed anew by various observers. When the consolidation is per- fect, the medullary membrane resumes its organic properties. After amputations, the same phenomena are observed in the narrow as in the other wounds which interfere with the adipose •issue : the oily matter disappears, and a cellular and vascular layer • See Moignoii, Tentamcn de morlis ossittm medulla; Paris et Lugd. Ann. Hi.