INTRODUCTION. 2 or internal, of bodies, that occupies the attention. It is to this kind of investigation, which has by some been named Morphology, that anatomy belongs. The other, which is generally denomi- nated Physics, takes cognizance of their appreciable changes, in other words, of their phenomena or motions, whether of masses or of molecules, and is accordingly divided into two principal branches, Mechanics and Chemistry. 3. The bodies which have common or general properties, differ also from each other in many respects. Organization and life con- stitute a very precise character, which separates them into two per- fectly distinct series, that of inorganic or brute bodies, and that of organized and living bodies. 4. Inorganic bodies not having a complicated structure, their particles being perfectly independent of each other, and lastly, these bodies not being the subject of anatomy, it were useless to insist more upon their nature and qualities. It will suffice to say, that the general motions or phenomena which these bodies perform or exhibit, and which belong to the science of mechanics, take place with a regularity and constancy, which permit us not only to ob- serve them, to reproduce and repeat them in our experiments, and to determine the laws according to which they are produced, but also to subject them to mathematical analysis ; that the molecular phenomena of these same bodies, which belong to chemical science, may be observed, and are capable of being produced or determined at will in experiments; that certain laws, according to which they are produced, may even be deduced from observations and experi- ments, but that these phenomena have not yet been subjected to calculation, an instrumental science so well adapted to accelerate the progress of the branches of knowledge to which it is capable of being applied. The science of organization and life is nearly re- duced to the laws of observation. 5. Organized or living bodies are the only ones of which anatomy takes cognizance. Besides the characters which they possess in common with inorganic bodies, they have others which are pecu- liar to themselves, and which modify the former ; they possess or- ganization and life. They have each a peculiar form, which is constant and generally rounded, the latter circumstance appearing to be dependent upon the fluids which they contain. Their inter- nal form, or their structure, in fact presents a mixture of hetero- geneous parts, solid and fluid. The solid parts are named Organs, which means instruments, on account of the action which they ex- ercise. Their particles are interlaced and interwoven, on which account their arrangement is named texture. They are areolar and spongy, or form particular cavities which contain fluids. These parts are in general extensile, or susceptible of elongation, and re- tractile, or possessed of the faculty of returning upon themselves. When these parts or organs are multiple, as is generally the case, each has its determinate form, its particular texture, and its pecu- liar situation. The fluids or humours are contained in the solids,