OF THE HONES. ^precision and accuracy to the language of anatomy, to give the (same termination to all the names of bones, and to them only. 571 ■ The number of the bones is very great, but differently de- termined, according as we take the subject at a particular age, or different subjects at different ages ; and this is what has most com- monly been done. If, for example, it be wished to determine the number strictly, taking the adult subject, the sphenoid bone then .occurs united to the occipital, and often to the ethmoid ; but the sternum is still divided into three parts, and the hyoid bone is still composed of at least three distinct pieces. The following is an enumeration of the bones which most ana- tomists agree in describing as distinct. Twenty-four moveable vertebra?. Five pelvic vertebrae, united to form the sacrum or pelvic bone. Three or four caudal vertebrae, united to form the coccyx. Twelve ribs on each side ; a single sternum, formed of three distinct pieces in the adult. An occipital bone, a sphenoid bone, an ethmoid bone, a frontal bone, two parietal bones, two temporal bones, each containing three ossicula tympani; a vomer, two upper maxillar bones, two palate bones, two zygomatic bones, two nasal bones, two lachrymal bones or ossa unguis, two inferior turbinated bones, an inferior maxillar bone. A hyoid bone, composed, even in the adult, of three or five dis- tinct pieces. The bones, which remain to be enumerated, are all paired or double, and are those of the limbs or extremities ; viz. , The scapula, the clavicle, the humerus, the radius, the ulna, the eight bones of the carpus, the five of the metacarpus, the two phalanges of the thumb, the three phalanges of each of the other fingers, and five sesamoid bones. The coxal bone, the femur, the tibia and patella, the fibula, the seven bones of the tarsus, the five bones of the metatarsus, the two bones of the great toe, the three bones of each of the other toes, and three sesamoid bones. , 572/ The situation of the bones is always internal, or deep. Whether they form cavities for the nervous and vascular centres," or form the limbs, they are all covered by the muscles and the teguments, none of them being external. , 573. The bones vary greatly as to size, some being a fourth, fifth, or sixth of the length of the body, while others have scarcely a diameter of a few lines. With reference to size, the bones are divided into large, middle sized, small, and very small, or ossicula. ! 574. The form of the bones is symmetrical. Some are single and median, the others lateral and in pairs. In the former, the lateral halves are similar to each other; in the latter, each of the bones is similar to that of the opposite side of the body. There are in this respect only very slight irregularities. The single bones, which are all situated on the median line, arc the vertebra?, as well those which are moveable, as those of the sa-