108 SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES OF THE TENDONS. J servants who kneel in washing, chimney sweeps and others, and which is also sometimes, but less frequently, observed in the other membranes of this kind. The hygroma may acquire a great size It sometimes very rapidly disappears without assignable cause, or after medicinal applications. I have sometimes punctured it, and drawn a vicous serosity from it. A stimulant injection, made after puncture, often causes adhesion of the walls and obliteration of the cavity. The subcutaneous synovial bursae are susceptible of inflamma- tion and suppuration, and may form extensive abscesses, whether after long continued pressure, or after being injected. ARTICLE SECOND. ON THE SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES OF THE TENDONS. 203. The Synovial Membranes of the Tendons, Membrance mucosae tendinum, are serous membranes moistened by an unc- tuous fluid, annexed to the tendons, in those places where they rub against the neighbouring parts. They have received the rather inappropriate names of mucous, mucilaginous, unguinous, synovial bursa?, vesiculae, capsules or sheaths. They have been long known. Vesalius and A. Spigel speak of some of them. Albinus has accurately described a cer- tain number of them. Janckius was the first who gave a general description of them. He was acquainted with sixty pairs. Cam- per first gave a figure of one of these membranes. It is to the ce- lebrated Fourcroy* that anatomy is most indebted in this matter, as well as to Monro.-f- Koch\ has very accurately described these membranes, not only in man, but in various animals. Gerlach || was the first who described and gave good figures of those which occur in the neck and on the head. Rosenmuller § has published an enlarged edition of Monro's work, and Mascagni has given a good figure of one of these membranes in his Prodromo. 204. The number of these membranes is great, but variable, there are now known about a hundred pairs. Like all the serous membranes, they form membranous cavities without apertures, but two kinds are distinguished with respect to their form. Some of them are rounded vesicules, attached on the one hand to the ten- don, and on the other to the part on which they slide. These are named vesicular, others are vaginal, surround the tendon in a cir- • Hist. deVAcad. Roy. des Sciences. Paris, 1785—1788. + A Description, &c. with Tables. + Ch. M. Koch. De Binds Tendiu. Mucos. Lips. 1789 \ F. E. Gerlach. D<: Bursts Tendinum vwcosis in cajjite ct collo repcriuudis, cum tabul. JEucis. Viteberg. 1793. . . § Tcuncs el Descrip. Bursar, mucosar. corporis hum. Ed. J. Ch. Hoscumullcr. liipsraa» 1799.