OF THE CYLINDRICAL WORMS. 382 III.—Of the cylindrical wobms. 855. The Cylindrical Worms, Entodzoa nematoidea (Rud.) have the body elongated, rounded and elastic. They have an in- testinal canal, terminated by a mouth and an anus, genital organs, separated in two different individuals. This order comprehends in man the three following genera: Filaria, Trichocephalus and Ascaris. 856. The Ascarides have the body round, attenuated at the two extremities, and the head furnished with three tubercules. The penis of the male is pointed and bipid. Two species occur in the human body, the lumbricoides and vermicularis. The Ascaris lumbricoides which has the head naked, the body, from three to 12 inches long, marked with two opposite grooves, and the tail somewhat blunt, inhabits the small intestine. The Ascaris vermicularis, owyurus vermicularis of Bremster has the head obtuse, and furnished with a vesicular membrane on the two sides. Its body is a little thickened at the anterior part. The tail of the male is bent and obtuse ; that of the female is straight and flattened. It inhabits the large intestine, and especially the rec- tum. 857- The Trichocephalus has the anterior part of the body ca- pillary, and the rest abruptly enlarged ; the mouth orbicular ; the penis simple and sheathed. In man there occurs the T. dispar. It is unarmed, the capil- lary part is very long, and its head pointed. The body of the fe- male is nearly straight, that of the male spirally twisted. The sheath of the penis is ovoidal. This worm, which has been ob- served by Morgagni, Wrisberg, Roederer and Wagler, is very common. It inhabits the large intestine, and especially the coe- cum. 858. The Filarice have the body elongated and nearly equal, and the mouth orbicular. The penis of the male is pointed and simple. The Filaria medinensis, which is very long, and has the head attenuated, the tail flattened and bent in the male, semicylindrical, pointed and curved in the female, is met with in the human spe- cies, but only between the tropics. It inhabits the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and especially that of the feet. It was formerly considered as a penetrating external worm, but it appears to be really an Entozoarium. Filaria bronchialis is a doubtful species, observed and described by Treutler, under the name of Hatiiularia lymphatica. 859. The Strongylus ghjas has been ranked among the worms which inhabit the human body, because Ruysch says he once saw in the human kidneys worms similar to those which occur in the kidney of the dog.