OF THE HONKS. a young man, in which the walls of the medullary canal are as thin as paper. This canal has been enlarged by internal absorp- tion, while no formation has taken place at the exterior. Phthisis, when very slow, sometimes produces this alteration in the bones. It is also produced by long inaction. > 621. Inflammation of the bones is very imperfectly known. The term caries is one of the vaguest words in pathology. The obscurity of the thing has been increased by comparing caries to the ulcer. What is most generally considered as caries, is a soft- ening of the spongy substance of the bone, such that it can be cut with a bistoury without injuring its edge. This softening appears to be the effect of an inflammation, which generally terminates by suppuration, and also sometimes by necrosis. Rachitis is another kind of softening which appears to depend upon the diminution of the earthy substance during the period of growth, whence results the bending of the bones under the weight of the body, and under the action of the muscles. In fact, if the bones of rachitic persons be examined at the period when they afe soft ,* it is found that the long bones have become spongy in their whole thickness, and that their tissue, which has become soft and red, may easily be cut with the scalpel. On the other hand, when the disease is terminated, and the bones have resumed their hard- ness and inflexibility, the compact substance is found much thicker on the concave side of the curvature than on the opposite side; and when the bone is bent at an angle, the place at which the flexure exists is entirely compact, and the medullary canal is obli- terated in it. In the adult state, the softening depending upon the same cause, may proceed to the same extent, and even farther : the bones may become soft and pliant (Osteomalacia, seu Malacosteon) ; they may even acquire all the softness and flexibility of flesh (Osteosar- cosis). At this extreme degree of softness, of which the woman Supiot presented so remarkable an example, and in which the bones bend like soft wax, desiccation diminishes their weight and changes their form ; decoction dissolves them; and their chemical composi- tion is changed -j* to such a degree that they do not contain more than a few hundredth parts of earthy substance. Lastly, it may happen, with, or without the preceding changes^ that the animal substance of the bones loses its natural tenacity, and these organs, having become brittle, break under the slightest effort. 622. Morbid accidental productions are also sometimes met with in the bony tissue; tubercles, scirrhus, and the encephaloid pro- duction are not rare in them. • Ed. Stanley, in Med. Cliir. Trans, vol. vii Lond. 1816. ■f Bostock, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol iv. Lond. 1813.—J. Davy, in Monro's Otit- Fmes of Anatomy.