so INTRODUCTION. 51. Such is the immense scries of the Invertebrate animals.* They form, as we have said, three different branches or types. It has been seen, that there is in each type a general resemblance, and also various degrees of complication and of perfection, in the organization. The Radiated animals are evidently the most simple. Some of them approach the Infusoria, and even the most complicated among them have no central organ of circulation, and no predominating nervous organ. Being destitute of central organs, they are desti- tute of organic or vital unity. After the Radiaria, come the Mollusca and Articulata. It is somewhat difficult to decide which of these two branches ought to stand highest in the scale of organization; for if, on the one hand, the Articulata are inferior to the Mollusca, in respect to the vege- tative organs and functions, many of them being destitute of a true circulation, a function, which on the contrary exists in the Mollusca; on the other hand, the latter are inferior to the Arti- culata, in respect to the development and approximation of the nervous masses, and especially in respect to instinct, which exhi- bits so great a degree of perfection in some articulated animals, as to bring them near the vertebrata. Of the Vertebrate Animals. 52. The Vertebrate Animals constitute a type or mode of organi- zation, to which belong man and the animals which resemble him most. They approach the invertebrate animals in the organs of the vegetative functions, but differ greatly from them in those of the animal functions. Their external conformation is, with the exception of one genus, perfectly symmetrical; that is to say, their organs of sensation and motion are disposed in pairs on the two sides of an axis, or a median plane. They attain a great size, it being among them that the largest animals are found, which they owe to the bones which sustain their soft parts. Their body is always composed of a trunk, and, with very few exceptions, members. The trunk is supported in its whole length by the spine, a column composed of vertebrae capable of moving upon each other, at one of the extremities of which is the head, and of which the other extremity is generally prolonged into a tail. This column, which is in part solid, contains a canal in which the spinal mar- row is lodged. The head is formed of the skull which contains the brain, and the face which is composed of the jaws and the receptacles of the organs of sense. The rest of the trunk forms one or two great cavities which contain the organs of the vegeta- tive functions. In the greater number, there are on the sides of the column bony arches or ribs, which guard the visceral cavity, " See Do Lamarok, /JJaf. AW. dai Anhnavx Sans Verifies.