OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 137 i is subject, although this is a rare occurrence, to an oedema or se- rous infiltration This membrane is frequently the seat of hivmor- rha"-es or bloody fluxes. The submucous tissue is also sometimes i ecchymosed. It is also certain that it is sometimes the seat of ga- : seous fluxes. 284. Inflammation is of very frequent occurrence in the mucous membrane, and exhibits itself there in all its forms. Its anatomi- . cal characters are an increase of the redness, which sometimes passes into brown ; a degree of thickening, generally rather small, but variable, and proportional to the duration of the disease; a more or less marked softening, and sometimes an enormous aug- mentation of the villosities. The most common result of this in- flammation is an increase of quantity and a change of the qualities of the mucus. Frequently this catarrhal inflammation degenerates into phlegmorrhcea or blennorhcea. Suppurative inflammation also pretty frequently takes place in it : the membrane without being ulcerated secretes mucus and pus, and even pure pus alone. Ab- scesses also sometimes occur in the submucous cellular tissue. Ad- hesive or plastic inflammation is less frequent in it. It is however frequently observed in the respiratory passages, where it constitutes croup, and pretty often in alimentary passages, the intestines, the bladder, the ureter, and even sometimes in the eyes. The organ- izable matter is commonly excreted in flakes or membranes, suffi- ciently large and consistent to have been sometimes taken for the inner membrane of the stomach or bladder, &c.; or the patient dies before the matter is organized. At other times, on the contrary, the new membrane becomes organized, and unites with the surface of the old membrane; or it contracts adhesions with itself, and thus forms mucous bridles, which traverse in greater or less number, and contract in a greater or less degree the cavity which they oc- cupy. • 285. The inflammation of the mucous membrane is not always erythematous and uniformly extended at its surface. It has some- times the form of isolated red patches, and more commonly that of a tubercular exanthema, whether the small elevations be discrete or confluent. This is well known to occur sometimes, but not al- ways, on the mucous membrane of the digestive and respiratory passages of individuals who have died of small-pox, audit has even been considered as an internal variola.* This elevated internal exanthema, which appears to consist of an inflammation confined to the follicles, has been particularly observed by M. Bretonneau, in an epidemic enteritis, of which it is to be regretted that lie has not yet published a description. 286. Gangrene sometimes takes place, and ulceration frequently, in the mucous membrane, especially after the exanthema of which we have just been speaking. After either of these causes of de- " Sec Wrlsberg, in Si/Uogc Comment, p. 52. G. Blanc, in Trans, for the Improvem. • of Mid. and Chir. Knowl. vol. iii. p. 423—428. 3