OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 135 1st, Absorption, which is very active and general, and of which t the villosities are the most active, but not the sole agents. 2dly, Secretion, which is perspiratory and follicular, and of which tthe products, although they differ considerably in the different [ parts, are generally known by the name of mucosities. 3dly, Motions of tonic contraction, augmented in many places by the action of the elastic tissue, and even by the action of the r muscular fibres by which this membrane is in many parts sur- i rounded; 4thly, Sensations, more or less distinct or obscure, general or particular, and feelings of want or appetites. 277- The mucosities or mucous humours which occur at the ■ surface of the internal tegument are, for the most and principal {part, composed of mucus. Animal mucus,* which is very similar tto vegetable mucilage, but contains azote, which the other does mot, is one of the immediate principles of animals. It occurs, both iin the internal membrane in the product of the mucous secretion, aand in the external in the epidermis, the hairs and the horny parts, cof which it constitutes a large part. In the fluid and pure state, iit is white, viscous, transparent, inodorous, and insipid. It con- t tains nine-tenths of its weight of water. It is insoluble in alcohol, I soluble in acids, not coagulable like albumen, and not capable of ( congealing like gelatine. It is precipitated by acetate of lead. In tthe dry state, it is semitransparent, brittle, insoluble in water, and < difficultly soluble in acids. M. Berzelius has found the mucosity identical in the nostrils ;and trachea, and having the following composition : water, 933.9 ; i i mucous matter, 53.3 ; hydrochlorate of potash and soda, 5.6 ; lac- i tate of soda and animal matter, 3.0 ; soda, 0.9 ; phosphate of so- i da, albumen and animal matter, 3.3. wrpart In the analyses of the other mucosities given by that chemist, tiiT and in those of MM. Fourcroy and Vauquclin, there exist consi- derable differences, which depend some upon the parts in which ive it en-1'the mucosity was obtained, and in which it had undergone various Its mixtures, others upon the difference of individuals affected by va- i rious diseases. In fact, while the mucus may be identical, the i mucosity is not always so, nor in all parts the same. In general i it coagulates milk. 278. The functions of the mucous membrane are in a very inti- ] mate connexion with all the other parts. In the state of health, the nervous action, the circulation, the functions of the skin, &c. 1 have a manifest influence upon the functions of the mucous mem- 1 brane and vice versa. In the state of disease, the mucous mem- I brane produces sympathetic effects, which are extremely remark- 1 able, and also experiences similar effects through the action of 1 other parts upon it. • See Fourcroy and Vnuquelin. Annates An Mus. dTjist. Nat. vol. xii. Bostock. Mcdico-chir. Trans, vol. iv. Ber'/elius. Ibid. vol. iii.