/ OF THE EXTERNAL MUSCLES. I / ■ aisity, destined to surmount an external resistance, or to perform a laborious function, whether accidentally or naturally. Thus, the action of raising or carrying a heavy body, parturition, difficulty of passing the urine, &c. require efforts before they can be executed. In every effort, there is an extraordinary nervous influx upon the muscles. Sometimes this influx is voluntary, sometimes involun- tary. In the latter case, it is irresistibly determined by the con- nexion already remarked between the involuntary internal muscles, and their external congeners. In every effort also, a great num- ber of efforts, sometimes the whole apparatus of motion together, is in action. Lastly, in every effort, the lung is first filled with air by an inspiration,- the glottis is closed and retracted, the muscles of expiration arc contracted, and the walls of the thorax are thus rendered immoveable, in order to present fixed points of attach- ment to the muscles of the abdomen and limbs. The effects of efforts are to retard or prevent the entrance of the venous blood into the thoracic trunks, whence its reflux and its stasis in the veins of the neck, the head, the abdomen, and even the limbs; to compress the thoracic and abdominal viscera, and even sometimes to produce their expulsion, especially that of the latter, through an opening in the walls. Efforts occasionally even go so far as to produce rupture of the muscles, tendons or bones, and to cause burstings of the blood-vessels, hemorrhages and effu- sions of blood. 730. The muscles which pass over several joints may move them all. Thus the flexors of the fingers, after having bent the third and second phalanges on the first, bend the latter on the metacar- pus, and the hand on the fore-arm. One of the two even contri- butes to pronation. It is the same in the foot, where the common extensor of the toes bends the foot upon the leg, and where even the same disposition occurs. These muscles, which pass over se- veral joints, have also other uses. They are auxiliaries or supple- mentary parts to shorter muscles, extending only to the two bones united by an articulation. Thus, the biceps, semi-tendinosus and semi-membranosus of the thigh, which pass over two articulations bending in opposite directions, may assist or supplant in their func- tions the extensor muscles of the pelvis upon the thigh, and the flexors of the thigh upon the leg. The muscles of this kind, which are so numerous in the limbs, especially the inferior ones, and which equally exist in the direction of extension and in that of flexion, appear also to have for use to render the act of standing secure, by applying the articular surfaces against each other, and preventing motion in all directions. 731. Muscular motion is simple when it is impressed by a single muscle or by several muscles which act in the same direction. It is compound, when it is produced by several muscles which act in different directions. Simple motion commonly takes place in the direction of the muscle itself or of the muscles which determine it. Thus the flexors of the fingers pull these parts in their own direc-