OF THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. 172 lume, as well as the quantity of fluid which they carry, vary greatly. The most vascular parts are the lungs, then the tegumentary membranes, as well as the pia mater and choroid membrane; then the glands, the follicles, the vascular ganglia, the cortical substance of the brain, the nervous ganglia; then the muscles, the perios- teum, the adipose tissue, the medullary nervous substance, the bones, and the serous membranes; then the tendons and liga- ments ; and lastly the cartilages and arachnoid membrane, in ■which there are extremely few or none. The epidermis, the nails, the hairs, and the ivory and enamel of the teeth, appear to be en- tirely destitute of vessels. * 366. On arriving in the substance of the organs, and attaining a greater or less degree of tenuity, the vessels, by their divisions and subdivisions, their various directions and anastomoses, form very complicated net-works, varying greatly in form, although al- ways possessing the same form in the same parts. They present arborizations in the intestine and epididymis, stars on the liver, tufts in the tongue, and tendrils in the placenta. In the spleen the appearance exhibited is that of a bottle-brush ; in the muscles, that of a stalk of a bunch of grapes; in the testicle and choroid plexus, that of curled hair; in the iris that of creeks, fringes in the pia-mater, trellis-work in the pituitary membrane, a plume or nosegay on the capsule of the crystalline humour, &c. These dis- positions are so constant and so regular, that, on examining a por- tion of an organ well injected, it is easily known to what part it be- longs, -f- 367- The vessels are more or less transparent, according to their thinness or thickness. Their colour is whitish. Whatever may be the density of their walls, especially at their internal surface, they are permeable in the dead body and even in the living, whe- ther from without inwards, or from within outwards. They pos- sess a considerable power of cohesion, \ which, however, is not the same in the three species, in all their parts, or even in the different layers of which they are composed. This is equally the case with their elasticity, § which is, in general, considerable, and which exists in the longitudinal direction of the vessels, and in that of their circumference. They are decidedly irritable, and their vital contractility || is, in general, in the inverse ratio of their elasticity. They are not distinctly sensible. Their power of formation is very active. 368. The vessels are tubes by which the circulating humours • See Soemmering. De Corp. Human, fabricd, t. iv. Angiologia, 1800. G. Pro- chaska, Disquinlio Aunt.-phystol. Organismi Corp. Hum. &c. Vienna, 1812. cap. ix. De Vasis Sanguinch Capillarihis, &c. + See Soemmering-, Loc. tit. Prochaska, Loc. tit. * CI. Wintringham, Experimental Inquiry on some parts of the Animal Structure, London, 1740. § D. Hoffman, Diss. Itiaug. Med. tie Ehisticitatis EJectibus in Machina Humana, 1734, {| G. WercliUH', Diss. Med. lining, de Arlcr. ct Venar. viIrtitabili, Groning. 1766. C. Hastings, Disp. Physiol. Imug. dc vi conlraclili Vascrum, &c. Edinb. 1820.