1 \1 ttej e of an do not 're com. I also to . that it e bodies surface, % and ! OS foe ifcive, b pheao- iMtioir. r W, idetaWe, ifing fo- amed on ftf ' is. Tbe ■hick is,*.. [also1* be**JJ r'1 OF THE COMMON ADIPOSE TISSUE. 83 rations, as in the places where it forms part of the organs them- selves. SECTION SECON]). OF THE ADIPOSE TISSUE. 152. The adipose tissue, so named on account of the fat (adeps) i which it contains, results from the aggregation of microscopic ve- sicles, connected together by laminar cellular tissue, and serving as a reservoir for the fat. Two kinds of it are distinguished ; one s the common adipose tissue, the other the adipose or medullary ;issue of the bones. ARTICLE FIRST. OF THE COMMON ADIPOSE TISSUE. 153. It has been designated by the names of adipose cellular ■issue, adipose membrane, tunica adiposa, tela adiposa, membrane •f the fat, &c. It has also been named pannicula adiposa, on ac- count of its forming a layer situated immediately beneath the kkin. 154. This tissue was long confounded with the cellular tissue, 'vhich was said sometimes to contain serous fluid, sometimes fat, wnd in the latter case to form the adipose tissue. Malpighi was me of the first who raised doubts cn this subject, and discovered ahat the fat is formed of grains appended to the blood-vessels, ^wammerdam, in like manner, found it to be a fluid oil contained . jjtJ in im membranules. Morgagni also discovered that the fat contains grains which he compared to those of the glands. Bergen was one •)f the first who distinguished two kinds of cellular tissues, one of tfhich, named by him the laminar, corresponds to the adipose tis- sue. William Hunter gave the distinctive characters of this tis- me, which were afterwards confirmed, and more or less accurately determined by Jansen, Wolff, M. Chaussier, Prochaska, Gordon, 'Mascagni, myself, &c. Haller denies the existence of this tissue, md admits only the areolae of the cellular tissue, as constituent >arts of the fat. His opinion has been adopted by Bichat, M. Meckel, &c.; but we shall see, as we proceed, that it has little bundation. The adipose tissue has been carefully described in 'arious works, * and figured in a few. rlr 155. The adipose tissue presents different forms, according to Vhe places in which it is examined. Under the skin it forms a * M. Malpighi, De omenta, jnngncdinc, 8(c. in cjund. oper. omn. ct posth. Bergen, p. cit. W. Hunter, op. cU. Wolff, op. clt. W. X- Jansen, Pingitcdinh animalis J Oiuideralio physiufagica ct pathologies. Lujjct. Bat. 1784. r—