OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. 307 tcnsiblc; after which, by keeping the ends as close to each other as possible, and during a sufficient length of time, a short and firm union has been obtained, and the motion which the parts had entirely or almost entirely lost has been restored to them. 698. The muscles are subject to variations and to vices of con- formation. Certain monstrous foetuses, acephalous and others,* have been seen destitute of all the muscles, or of all those of a limb at least, these organs being replaced by infiltrated cellular tissue. Isolated muscles are those which are most commonly observed to be defective or wanting. Not unfrequently there occur supernumerary muscles, or mus- cles divided into several distinct parts ', muscles united which are commonly separated; others longer or shorter than usual, which changes their attachments and modifies their functions. All these varieties are original or primitive. The diminution or augmentation of volume of the muscles are, on the contrary, generally owing to accidental causes. Rest and paralysis diminish their volume, while exercise increases it. Ruptures of the muscles take place from two causes :-f- the action of antagonist muscles, or another power which distends a relaxed muscle, or by the action of the ruptured muscle itself; and in this latter case, the rupture commonly takes places at the union of the tendinous or aponeurotic parts with the fleshy fibres, of which a small number only are found broken. In the case of rupture, there take place a more or less extensive and deep separation ac- companied with noise and pain, and a more or less abundant effu- sion of blood into the cavity formed by the solution of continuity, and into the surrounding cellular tissue. The internal muscles, and especially the heart, also sometimes burst by their contraction. Displacement of the muscles, \ which has been admitted by Ponteau, M. Portal, and other pathologists, can only happen when the enveloping aponeuroses are divided. 699. The muscles present various alterations of colour, consist- ence and cohesion. In rheumatism, a gelatiniform fluid is sometimes found at the interior, and in the substance of the cellular sheaths of the muscles and of their bundles. In cases of old paralysis, the muscles are wasted, white, and sometimes very fat. It has already been seen, (168) that the transformation of the muscles into fat is more apparent than real. It results from the paleness and wasting of the muscle, in conjunc- tion with the accumulation of fat between the bundles of fibres. Accidental productions, whether of similar tissues, or of morbid * Bpdard, Mjmoire sur les Factus Acephalcs. f J. SedilJot, Mcmoire tur la rupture musculaire, in Mem. et Prix de la Soe. de Med. de Paris, 1817. t J. Hausbrand. Diss. Luxalionis tie dicta: mutcularis refutationem tistent, Bcrol. 1814.