Re. ^"m the ' remark.-, ■e to be, presents lie otW the new mucous Uastly, on occur i part of s of fis- Tom Uie1 been de- nts, to i milar.or ved, and OF THE MUCOUS ME MIS It ANE. 129 eminent having a great resemblance to the old one, and sometimes entirely similar to it. The new membrane, however, besides ex- hibiting some slight anatomical differences, is much more liable to ulceration than the original teguments. 259. In abscesses, and especially in chronic abscesses, there forms a membrane which circumscribes the pus and which bears a great resemblance to the mucous membrane. It acquires a still greater resemblance when the abscess is open and remains the source of a fistulous ulcer. This is also the case with ulcers of this kind which are kept up by a necrosis or by the presence of a foreign body, as well as with the true fistulae or accidental canals which arise from a natural mucous cavity. In all cases, the canal is invested in its whole extent by a soft, spongy, in short mucous membrane, as was first discovered by Hunter in fistula? at the ; anus. At its orifice in the skin, if it be at this surface that it i opens, the mucous canal of the fistula is furnished, to a certain idepth, with a distinct epidermis which is continuous with that of : the skin. SECOND SECTION. OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 2G0. The internal tegumentary membrane, or the mucous racm- Ibrane, received the latter name from the nasal fossae, nos- Itrils), on account of the mucus 0*i£«/, pituita, rheum,) which it (furnishes. It constitutes a moist tegument which covers all the (.cavities which communicate externally, and which all receive or re- jject foreign substances. From being at first considered in each Ihollow organ as its peculiar internal membrane, and from having mo other name, it was afterwards called villous or spongy, pulpy, rporous, and villoso papillar in the alimentary canal, and pituitary or nmucous in the nose and gullet. Anatomists soon perceived folli- i cles nearly in its whole extent, which made them give it the gene- .,; li- fter the- At m v pheno- iip* . .... rric name of glandular, and remark the resemblance which the nasal sand intestinal mucus bears to the unctuous humour of the trachea of o<*j imiat to >* iC£llttiu> aand bronchi, and even the analogy existing between the mucus and eepidermis. Henceforth the identity of the different parts of the iimembrane became known. The pathologists, and especially M. IPinel, had already remarked it in giving the history of catarrhs. IHowever, no general and satisfactory description of this mem- 1'brane had been given before Bichafs time.* Since then anatomists and pathologists have been pretty generally agreed to adopt his iddeas on the subject, excepting Gordon, who found too essential ildifferences between the various mucous membranes to include Ithcm within a common description. 2G1. The muc us membrane forms an internal inteeumcnt to • Trailc des Membranes, Paris, Ann. viii. K