&J5 OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. The nerve and its branches are then perceived, the latter being distinguished from the muscular fibres by their direction. In fact, the trunk of the nerve runs in the substance of the muscle parallel to its length, and the branches all separate from it at right angles, to become engaged between the muscular fasciculi and fibre ; and as they are all in the same plane, on account of the thinness of the muscle, they represent a kind of comb. If the muscle is contract- ed, the last visible transverse fibrils of the nerve are seen to cor- respond exactly to the summit of the angles, or flexuosities of the muscle. The nerves, although numerous and of great size in the muscles, elude the sight long before their divisions are by any means suffi- ciently multiplied to be distributed to all the muscular fibres. Two hypotheses have been imagined to explain their action upon these fibres. Isenflamm and Mr. Carlisle suppose that the nerves, at their termination, dissolve into the cellular tissue of the muscles, and that this tissue thus participates of the conducting property of the nerves. Reil admits that the nerves have a sphere of acti- vity extended beyond their termination, and which he calls the nervous atmosphere. These suppositions will be subsequently ex* amined. 663. The greater number of the muscles have the extremities of their fibres attached to ligamentous tissue, through the interven- tion of which their action is transmitted to a greater or less dis- tance. But these ligamentous parts are much more extensively distributed in the external muscles than in the others. 664. The colour of the muscles varies greatly. Those of the invertebrate animals, and of the cold-blooded vertebrate animals axe white. The muscles of birds, mammifera, and man are, some of the reddish tint generally known by the name of flesh-colour, the rest of a greyish white. The shade varies greatly in both kinds. It also varies according to different circumstances, antece- dent or subsequent to death. The colour is easily removed by washing and maceration. It appears to be so much the paler, the smaller the muscle, bundle or fasciculus is, and, on the contrary, so much the deeper, the greater the mass is. In their slices, mus- cular flesh is semitransparent. The consistence of the muscles varies greatly, even in the dead body, and from causes which have acted before or after death, and which will be examined when we come to speak of their irritability. In general, the muscular fibre is soft, moist, possessed of little elas- ticity, and easily torn in the dead body. 665. The muscular flesh when exposed in thin slices to the ac- tion of a current of dry air, or to the heat of a stove, loses more than half of its weight, and becomes brown, more transparent, and very hard. On the other hand, when immersed in cold water fre- quently renewed, flesh loses its colour entirely, and acquires a straw-yellow tint. Maceration softens and swells it. Alcohol, diluted acids, solution of corrosive sublimate, those of