APPENDIX. tions, poultices, and neglect, fall into disease, and finally become ne - crosed. When the stump remains open, after amputation for gunshot frac- ture or hospital gangrene, having seized the stump and destroyed the soft parts around the bone, renders it probable that a portion of bone lias also died, successive amputations higher up ought not to be per- formed hastily. Experience shows that the necrosed portion will, alter a time, be detached, and may be extracted without difficulty. It is even doubtful if successive amputations be admissible, since, as far as I have observed, the sequestrum is generally of such length as to prevent the operator from removing the whole of the diseased bone, unless the amputation be very high. When the necrosed portion is suspected to consist of the whole shaft of the bone, or of any portion of the shaft of the bone, throughout its entire thickness, splints ought to be worn, and absolute rest enjoined: these splints, aided by a circular roller, may prevent the early occur- rence of fracture, and the amputation of the limb. I am aware that a host of objections will be offered to this theory of necrosis. It will be asserted, that specimens of the entire regeneration of bones are to be found in every anatomical museum; that the perios- teum has been found ossified in innumerable instances ; that in others the soft parts around the necrosed bone were evidently converted into new bone ; and finally, that the experiments of Duhainel and Troja, repeated by so many, must necessarily throw much doubt on the sub- ject. To all these assertions I have to reply, 1st, That the preceding opinions relative to necrosis, are merely a statement of pathological facts, drawn from a constant observance of nature; 2d, That I have never seen any specimens of an entirely regenerated bone in any mu- seum, nor do I know of the existence of such a specimen ; 3d, In no dissection performed by myself or others, has the new bone, in cases of necrosis, been found to depend for its origin on the periosteum, or surrounding soft parts, but, on the contrary, it has uniformly appeared to be a secretion from that portion of the old bone which remained alive. New osseous matter thus formed may be readily distinguished from old living bone, however altered: it is irregular, nodulated, and full of foramina, for the transmission of vessels : the edges, or those points farthest removed from the base, are generally thin. Though I have never met with an ossification of the periosteum, it is by no means my intention to say that such an occurrence is impos- sible, or even rare; most tissues of the human body are liable to be converted into a substance much resembling bone ; the dura mater, for example, has been found ossified ; the pleura, periosteum, the coats of arteries, and even the cicatrix of an old ulcer; but these are diseased, not healthy processes ; they resemble each other, and may be classed together, but cannot possibly be confounded with the regeneration of bone in cases of necrosis. Edinburgh, July 1821. R. Knox.