OF ACCIDENTAL HUMOURS. 3G9 assumes the character of pus. At the same time the vulncratccl surface becomes covered with a layer of organizable matter, which becomes vascular and is covered with granulations. The cellular tissue when irritated by a foreign body, or by an unknown cause, (Spina Helmontii,) inflames, and pus forms in the centre of the phlegmon. This pus is contained in a membrane of new formation, which is more or less distinct, and more or less vascular, according to its age. The surrounding cellular tissue, which is inflamed and highly vascular, has lost its permeability through the intersticial deposition of organizable matter. The serous membranes, when they suppurate, present similar changes. They become very vascular, and at length assume the appearance of mucous membranes. 822. Boerhaave attributed the origin of pus to the melting of organs under inflammation; Pringle and Gaber, to a change in the serum of the blood. These two opinions, variously modified and combined, were long and generally adopted. The idea that pus is formed in the vessels, and issues from them by a secreting action of these organs, was first emitted by Dr. Sympson, then by Dehaen ; and afterwards by Dr. Morgan of Phi- ladelphia. Hunter and Brugmans embraced and developed this doctrine, which is now generally adopted. Suppuration is a morbid secretion. This secretion is always preceded and determined by inflammation; but the inflammation is more or less evident. Dehaen himself, who expressly admits suppuration without previous inflammation, evidently speaks only of inflammation with ulceration. In fact, what was then an- nounced is now well known, that suppuration may take place oh surfaces without ulceration. He takes notice in the cases of sup- puration without inflammation, of plastic productions and adhesions, which, as is well known, depend upon inflammation. In the scrofulous constitution suppuration is often preceded only by a chronic and latent inflammation, but which does not the less exist, although it may be obscure. 823. Suppuration, when it has long existed, and takes place over a large surface, becomes, through its connexion with the functions, an important secretion, and for this reason a suppuration ought not to be lightly induced or suppressed. Pus is sometimes the vehicle of virus introduced into the organ- ism. It is also, in some cases, considered as the causal vehicle of diseases eliminated by the organism. According to Sir Everard Home, pus has for one of its uses that of furnishing, by its coagulation at the surface of suppurating wounds, the materials of the cicatrix, in other words, the organiz- able matter of that new tegument. 2 &