OF THE ARTICULATION'S. * A. Beclard. Dktionnaire Ac Mtdkine, vol. ii. <J80 This kind of articulation, which has received the generic name of suture, presents several varieties. 625. The true suture is that in which the edges of the articu- lated bones present numerous and extensive eminences and depres- sions, which receive each other. Of this kind are the intcr-parie- tal, occipi to-parietal, and fronto-parietal articulations. This suture itself presents some differences. Thus, in the first, there are long tooth-like prolongations j. in the second, they have the form of rounded tails; in the third, they resemble the teeth of a saw. These three varieties have received the names of dentate suture, suhira dentata, serrated suture, sutura serrata, and margined su- ture, sutura limbosa. The harmonic articulation, is that in which the edges of the bone, which are more or less thick, present rugosities which are fitted to each other; the suture by which the nasal bones are join- ed to each other, is of this kind. The squamous articulation is that in which the edges of the bones are sloped like a chissel, and fitted to each other like the edges of a bivalve shell. This disposition, which is very decidedly marked in the junction of the parietal and temporal bones, occurs combined with the suture or harmonic articulation in many other articulations of the skull and face. In many articulations, it is double and reciprocal, so that at one part, a bone overlaps the other, which in another part overlaps the first in its turn. Of this kind are the spheno-frontal sutures. This mortising is one of the most power- ful means of ensuring the solidity of the synarthrodia! articulations. Schindylesis is a synarthrosis which results from the reception of the crest or ridge of a bone into the groove of another. Of this kind are the articulations of the sphenoid and ethmoid bones with the vomer, the lachrymal bone with the nasal process of the maxil- lar bone, &c. Lastly, Gomphosis is a species of synarthrodial articulation, en- tirely different from the suture, which results from the reception of the roots of the teeth into the alveoli. 626. Amphiarthrosis,* or mixed articulation, partakes of the nature of synarthrosis in having the articular surfaces united by means of an intermediate substance, and of that of diarthrosis in having a considerable degree of mobility ; this kind of articula- tion is confined to the body of the vertebrae, the pubis and the up- per parts of the sternum. The articular parts of the bones, aye here flat and broad surfaces. The means of union are intermediate cartilaginiform ligaments, adhering very firmly to the two surfaces and accessary ligaments placed at the exterior of the articulation. This kind of articulation, which is often called symphysis, possesses a great degree of solidity, which is owing to the tenacity of the ligament. Its mobility is ©wing to the flexibility and elasticity of the same substance. The motion consists of the flexion or torsion of the ligament. This articu-