OF THE NF.HVOUS SYSTEM. phalon, spinal marrow and nerves, in the four classes of vertebrate animals, is composed of microscopic globules of l-300th of a mil- limetre united in linear series so as to form elementary fibres, of which the length is pretty considerable. I have verified these observations, of which the importance is so much the greater that we find similar globules, but arranged somewhat differently, in all the tissues of animals. According to M. Carus, the nervous globules are disposed in heaps in the central masses which act by irradiation, and in regu- lar lines in the nerves which act only as conductors. 750. The cellular tissue which connects the nervous fibrils is soft and indistinct. This tissue is more condensed at the surface, where, together with the vessels, it forms a more or less dense and vascular membrane, which in the nerves is single, (neurilema), and around the nervous centre double, (pia mater and dura mater), with an interval having its walls in contact established by a serous membrane, (the arachnoid.) 751. The blood-vessels of the nervous system are very numerous. They first ramify greatly in the immediate envelope of this tissue, (the neurilema and pia mater), and then penetrate into the grey substance, where they are extremely abundant. Lastly, they pe- netrate into the white substance, where they are much smaller and less numerous. No lymphatic vessels have been observed in the nervous system. 752. The nervous substance has been examined in a chemical point of view by Thouret, Fourcroy, and M. Vauquelin. The analysis of the brain, as made by M. Vauquelin, has yield- ed the following results : water 80.00; white fat matter, 4.53; reddish fat matter 0.70 ; albumen 7-00; osmazome 1.12; phos- phorus 1.50; acids, salts, and sulphur 5.15. According to the experiments of this able chemist, the spinal marrow and nerves have the same composition as the brain. M. John has discovered that the grey substance does not con- tain phosphorus. M. Chevreul has found in the blood a characteristic ingredient of the nervous substance, which is named cerebrine. 753. The vital properties of the nervous system essentially dis- tinguish it from all the other kinds of organs. Besides the faculty of being nourished, which is common to all the parts of the living body, it possesses another active property, entirely peculiar, which is called the nervous force or nervous influence. It manifests itself by the functions of this system, which are collectively designated by the name of innervation. 754. Innervation,* which has been greatly too much limited by a Kolando, Op. Cit. and Journal,k Physiologie, T. I IT. Gcorget, Do la Physiolgk tin systime ncrvcu.v. $c. Paris, 1821. Flourcns' Rccherehcsphysiques sui tes prcpricics ct Irs fonctfons du system : rcrreu.v,$c. in Archives generates dc Medicine, vol. ii- Fodcre, Itcchcr. Experiment, sur Ic Systcme Acrvnir, in Joutn. tie Physiologic. T. III. _