LIFE OF 1JECLAUD. Xll It is well known that he did not belie the hopes to which his zeal and precocious talents gave rise. Of the interesting facts which he collected in the dis- secting apartments of the rooms, and which he present- ed to the society of professors, into which he was not long of being admitted, we shall mention only the principal. One of these was, in 1813, the observation of a fcetus born with a very large frontal hernia of the brain, in conse- quence of hydrocephalus. This case was especially re- markable for the unusual presence of two bones situated between the frontal bones and not far from the articula- tion of the proper bones of the nose. Shortly after, he gave a description of a fcetus in which the umbilical cord, greatly dilated at its base, contained a portion of the abdominal organs, and in which the heart adhered to the palate. Conjointly with M. Bonnie, he published the observation of a delivery, by the anus of a child whose conception had been extra uterine. In a memoir on necrosis, he defended and developed the opi- nion of those authors who think that there is not really a regeneration of the bones. He also made known his re- flections on the formation of callus. He demonstrated, with Bonn and Bichat, that the ossification of periosteum is only provisory, and. serves as it were for a sheath to the two fractured ends, while they are becoming encrust- ed with phosphate of lime. It had long been believed that the arch of the aorta impresses upon the dorsal re- gion of the vertebral column the lateral curvature which is observed in it. Bichat had already shaken this ex- planation by supposing that the curvature might rather arise from the more frequently repeated contraction of the muscles of the right arm. This, however, was nothing more than a supposition, when Beclard transformed it in- to a positive fact, by pretty numerous researches on the subject. We must not omit mentioning the physiological experiments by which our author demonstrated that the