35() -OF THE GANGLIA AND SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Mai. d'Emulation > vol. viii. and articulata, have nervous enlargements which have been assi- milated to the ganglia of the vertebrate animals. But in the in- vertebrate animals the same nerves belong to all the kinds of or- gans and functions, while in the vertebrate, the great sympathetic nerves (and, to a certain degree, the pneumo-gastric nerves) be- long especially to the organs of the vegetative functions. M. Weber has compared the spinal ganglia of the vertebrate aninia! • ito the ganglia of the inferior animals. • In tho vertebrate animals, the only animals that possess true nervous ganglia comparable to those of man, these ganglia are seen to enlarge, especially those of the sympathetic nerve, and the .pneumo-gastric nerve to diminish, in proportion as the encephalon •is developed; so that the lowest of them, the class of fishes, have the smallest sympathetic nerve and the largest pneumo-gastrie 'nerve, while the reverse takes place in the highest, which arc the -mammifera;—as if the vegetative functions were more withdrawn from the influence of the encephalon, the less that organ is sub- jected to instinct. 795. The ganglia have been divided into several classes by those who have described them With most accuracy. Scarpa dk vides them into simple or spinal, and into compound. M. Weber divides them into ganglia of sir Lengthening: those of the spinal nerves and some of those of the cranial nerves; and ganglia of ori- gin ; those of the sympathetic nerve, with which he associates the orbitar and maxillary ganglia. M. Ribes * divides the ganglia into three series. In the first he arranges the rachidian or spinal nerve; in tl>e second, those which occur in the course of the tris- planchnic nerve; and in the third, all those which are situated more internally. M. Wutzer classes them into ganglia of the ce- rebral system, ganglia of the spinal system, and ganglia of the ve- getative or sympathetic system. I divide them into two kinds : 1st, the ganglia of the encephalo-rachidian nerves, of which some, the more numerous and regular, belong to the nerves which have "double roots, and others occur in the course of the nerves which have only one root: 2d, The ganglia of the two sympathetic nerves, some of which form a double longitudinal series, and others are placed near the median line. 796. The number of the ganglia is very great as will be seen. They are all situated in the trunk ; and Laneisi has erred in al- leging their existence in the limbs. Their size varies from that of sin olive to that of a millet seed. Their form is round, amygda- loidal, lenticular, &c. . 797. The ganglia are composed of two internal substances; the first medullary and white ; the second, pulpy and of a reddish grey. The medullary substance is collected into cords and threads, as in the nerves of sensation and motion. These internal medullary • Expose somvurirc dequetqucs licchercltcs Auat.P/'iys. cl P.itltol. in Ainu. Ccla Snr.