OF THE PARTS DEPENDENT UPON THE SKIN. 155 is," '".acme ^pus,' tumours, i when large are sot'iceityntii iimour is small, sebaceous mat. i circumstance come enlarged b resembles t joftlieorilice f the skin and easily fotoed to the cavity of lf matter^ el* lime alt> > lourless ; the eye has the iris of a pale rose colour, and the aper- tturc of the pupil red, which depends upon the absence of the pig- nment of the choroid membrane and of the uvea. The functions of ithe skin, and especially of the eyes, are greatly weakened by this ^alteration, which has been attributed to the absence of the corpus nmucosum, and which at least very certainly depends upon that of the colouring matter of the skin and its dependencies. This state has erroneously been regarded as an effect of leprosy or cachexy, or as a diseased condition. This opinion, the principal supporters of which were Blumenbach and Winterbottom, has been sufficient- lly refuted by the observations of Jefferson, who says expressly that all the individuals of this kind whom he has seen were well formed, strong, and active. This alteration occurs in all the races of men, lin all the parts of the globe, and in a very great number of ani- rmals. It commences immediately after birth, persists through life, and is transmitted by generation. The union of an Albino and a ccoloured individual commonly gives rise to coloured individuals, and sometimes to Albinos. These Albinos do not form a distinct rrace of men, but occur sporadically, as it were, or as accidental va- rieties. The noevi and marks of the skin consist, sometimes of a coloured [patch of the corpus mucosum, which is then sensibly thicker in that jpart than elsewhere ; at other times of an erectile disposition of the \ vessels of the skin, which will be elsewhere described, (Chap. IV.) The colouring of the skin is also subject to accidental alterations. 'Thus we see individuals of the white race become brown or entire- Uy black in parts of greater or less extent. Whites and blacks are £also seen to become albinos in parts of the skin of variable extent. Melanosis, which generally coincides with the discolouring of l the skin, and which is so frequently observed in white-haired per- l sons, probably depends upon an aberration of the pigment of the : skin. There are sometimes seen in the corpus mucosum horny produc- i tions which become more or less prominent at the surface of the • skin. These productions being similar in nature to the nails, will be described along with them. ARTICLE II. OF THE PARTS DEPENDENT UPON THE SKIN. 327. The nails and hairs are the only parts connected with the skin in the human species; but in animals there occurs a great va- riety of these appendages. These parts have been considered er- roneously as appendages of the epidermis alone, for they are con- nected with the whole skin.