374 OF THE CEREBRI FORM TISSUE. also called scrofulous tubercles, because they make their appear- ance in most cases of scrofula. This tissue exists under the form of isolated or enveloped masses, and under that of infiltration. It commences with the gelatinous state; but this state is per- ceivable only when the tuberculous substance is infiltrated. It afterwards exists in a greyish, transparent, and as it were se- micartilaginous state. This is the first distinct period of the iso- lated tubercles. They then constitute the miliary granulations of Bayle. These grains, as they enlarge, often unite into a mass, and be- come opaque, yellowish and friable, commencing at the centre. The same change of colour and consistence takes place in the state of infiltration. Thus far they are in the state of crudity. They then soften and become fluid. At this period, or even in the previous periods, there is commonly produced much new sub- stance, whether in mass, or in the form of infiltration. The tuberculous matter, more or less completely liquified, and converted into homogeneous or cheesy pus, is evacuated by an opening made in the skin or mucous membrane. It is also per- haps sometimes absorbed. Sometimes the nucleus remains in- flamed and ulcerates; sometimes it shrinks and is obliterated; sometimes the new membrane which lines it acquires a semi-mu- cous or semi-cartilaginous texture, and constitutes a dry permanent fistula ; lastly, there sometimes is found only a friable matter, pro- bably the residuum of absorption, the tubercle not having suppu- rated. Vessels never occur in tuberculous masses. In the case of tu- berculous infiltration the vessels are compressed and obliterated, and quickly disappear. The masses, which are slowly developed, have a soft or glutinous cellular, cartilaginous, and even sometimes osseous envelope. The tubercular tissue is met with in all the organs, and especi- ally in the lungs, in the natural and accidental tissue, at the sur- face of the serous membranes, but especially in their false mem- branes, at the free surface of the mucous membrane, and espe- cially that of the intestine, in the lymphatic ganglia, in the glands, the spleen, the bones, the muscular tissue, the tissue of the heart, the encephalon and spinal marrow, and in compound tumours. This morbid tissue has been observed in all the vertebrate ani- mals. II.—Of THE CEREBItlFOHM TISSUE. 338. The eercbriform or encephaloid tissue, is a very common morbid production. It has been confounded under the name of cancer with several others, and in particular with scirrhus. It was