OF THE MUSCULAH SYSTEM IN GENERAL. 290 larger being composed of the middle sized fibres, and the latter of the small. So also with respect to the fibrillae, of which the small- est compose the middle sized, and then the largest, these latter composing the smallest fibres. The smallest fibrilhe are in like manner composed of the filaments, which are themselves composed according to the general plan. According to this system, the muscles result from nine successive degrees of composition. Other anatomists, rejecting this entirely imaginary analysis, admit an indefinite divisibility. But it would appear, on the contrary, that in the muscles, as in all organic substance, we arrive by mi- croscopic inspection at a finite and perfectly determinate degree of division. 655. The muscular bundles, lacerti, are not equally distinct, equally numerous, or of equal size in all the muscles. There are some whose bundles are so distinct and large that they might be considered as so many particular muscles. Such are the portions of the biceps and triceps muscles, the bundles of the deltoid mus- cle, masseter, gluteus maximus, &c. Of this kind also are the co- lumns carncne of the ventricles of the heart, the longitudinal bands of the colon, &c. On the other hand, there are many muscles which scarcely equal a small portion of a bundle of those above- mentioned, and which are not formed of distinct bundles. The muscular bundles are themselves formed of bundles of smaller size, and these of others still smaller, which may be distin- guished in almost all the muscles. 656. All the muscles, besides, may be divided into fasciculi or fibres visible to the eye, fasciculi sen jibrce secundaria. These fasciculi, which constitute the last degree of division perceptible by the naked eye, have nearly the same form and thickness in all the muscles. Like the preceding divisions, they may be perceived by a longitudinal section, but still better by a transverse section, and especially in a muscle that has been boiled or immersed in al- cohol. They have a pentagonal or hexagonal prismatic form, and are never cylindrical. Their diameter varies little. Their length, according to Prochaska, equals the entire interval between their two insertions, even in the sartorius muscle. Haller, on the con- trary, thinks, with Albinus, that the fibres or fasciculi have not the whole length of the muscles, and that the fasciculi of fibres termin- ate by becoming thinner in the intervals of other like parts. This, however, does not appear to be the case. 657. The muscular fibres, Jibrce musculares primaries, sen Jila carnea, which are visible only with the aid of the microscope, form the last division which anatomical analysis determines in the muscles. For the best observations on this subject we are indebt- ed to Hooke, Leuwenhoeck, Dehayde, Muys, Delia Torre, Prochaska, the brothers Wenzell, Autenrieth, Sprengel, Sir Ev. Home, Bauer, * and to Messrs. Prevost and Dumas.f It is to be * Croonian Lecture, in Phil. Trans. 1818. f Examination of the Blood and of its action in the various phenomena of life, in Ami. de Ckimie cl de Phys. t. xxii.