been described in speaking of the different tissues, (Chap. I. to X.) 37^ OF THE ANALOGOUS ACCIDENTAL TISSUES. These tissues may be divided into two kinds : 1st, Those which are similar to those of the healthy organization ; 2dly, Those which are unlike any that occur in the healthy organization. For the sake of brevity these tissues may be designated, the former by the name of analogous tissues, the latter by that of heterologous. There are also some accidental tissues, which are in a manner intermediate between the two kinds, and have analogies, not in the human organization, but at least in other animals. 830. These different kinds of tissues are sometimes isolated, sometimes, and frequently, united together or combined. They arc even frequently combined with accidental humours, living ani- mals, altered humours or tissues, &c. 831. Of anatomists and pathologists, some (MM. Dupuy- trcn, Cruveilher, &c.) consider the accidental tissues as the residt of transformations that have been undergone by the natural tissues. They call the analogous accidental tissues, transformations proper- ly so called, and the heterologous tissues, degenerations. Others (J. Hunter, MM. Abernethy, Laennec, &c.) consider them as new or epigenetic productions. This is a question of very dif- ficult solution ; the latter opinion, however, we think more ac- cordant with observation. 832. The real transformations arc of very rare occurrence, and only take place between tissues which are not very different from each other. Thus the cartilages of the larynx change into bone ; the mucous membrane when exposed to the air by reversion changes into skin, again the skin, when drawn into the interior by a cicatrix, becomes mucous, &c. In the same manner we see in trees the roots converted into branches, and the branches in their turn into roots. But most of the alleged transformations are nothing else than productions. Thus, a cicatrix is an entirely new mem- brane, and not the result of the transformation of the denuded tissues. In like manner, cancer of the neck of the uterus is the result of a matter of new formation infiltrated into its tissue, and which has distended, compressed and wasted it, and not the residt of the degeneration of that tissue. ARTICLE I. OF THE ANALOGOUS ACCIDENTAL TISSUES. 833. These tissues resemble the tissues of the human body in a state of soundness. They are alterable like the natural tissues, and even in a still greater degree. These tissues are of two kinds : 1st, Some of them arc the re- sult of the adhesion of the lips of a .solution of continuity, or of regeneration after a loss of substance ; 2dly, Others arc the result of an entirely accidental production. Both kinds have already