OF TI1K VEItTEKUATE ANIMALS. SI 1 land in most of these animals the ribs are joined anteriorly to the sternum. The members are never in greater number than two i pairs, one or other of which is sometimes wanting, and in some . cases both. Their forms are various, being adapted to the kinds l of motions which they have to perform. The vertebrate animals have all two horizontal jaws, furnished in the greater number with teeth, which arc hard bodies resembling t bones in their chemical composition, and horns in their mode of formation. In those which are destitute of teeth, (birds and t tortoises), a true horny substance occupies their place. In all [the vertebrate animals, the intestinal canal, extending from the mouth to the anus, and presenting various enlargements, is fur- nished with secretory glands, viz. the salivary glands, the pancreas, and the liver. In all of them there are arteries, veins, a heart of varied form, and chyliferous and lymphatic vessels. In all, the 1 blood is red. In one class only (fishes) there are branchiae; in I the others the respiratory organ is a lung. The respiration varies i in extent and perfection in the different classes. The organ by which the bile is secreted, the liver, receives, in all the vertebrate I animals, blood carried to it from the intestines and spleen by the • vena-porta?. All these animals have kidneys also, which secrete i the urine, and most of them have a bladder or reservoir for this excrementitious humour. The sexes are always separated. The 1 female has one or two ovaries from which the eggs detach them- ■ selves. The male fecundates them by the spermatic fluid, but the mode of fecundation varies greatly, as do the other phenomena i of generation. The muscles, besides those which form the heart, and those which belong to the skin, the mucous membrane, and the organs ■ of sense, are very numerous, and are attached to internal bones capable of being moved upon each other. All those which have a lung have also a larynx, although all have not a voice. The organs of sense are in all, two eyes, two ears, the nose, the tongue, and the skin, this membrane being besides furnished with various protecting parts. But it is essentially the nervous system that, by its arrangement, distinguishes the vertebrate animals. In the invertebrata, the same nervous masses, more or less separated, furnish filaments at once to the organs of the vegetative functions, and to those of the animal functions. Here, on the contrary, besides these ganglia whose filaments are confined to the organs of the vegetative functions, there is a particular centre with which the ganglia communicate, and from which proceed, or rather in which terminate, the nerves of the organs of sensation and mo- tion. This centre, which is perfectly symmetrical, consists of a large cord contained within the spine, and prolonged into the cranium, where it presents various bulgings, and is surmounted by two complicated organs, varying in size, which are called the cerebellum and cerebrum. This nervous centre is enveloped by bones, firmly united to each other, and which protect it against