SUBCUTANEOUS SYNOVIAL BUKSiE. 107 when I examined them and described them in my lectures. I have also spoken of them in the additions to Bichat's General Anatomy, and in the DictiormaifB de Medtcfoifr. 201. The Synovial Bursre, of which we find as it were the rudi- nment in the loose and very extensive cellular tissue which exists hbetween all the parts intended for performing extensive motions, jare met with under the skin, in all places where that membrane i covers parts which exercise great and frequent motions ; as between : the skin and the fibula, between the olecranon and the skin, upon the trochanter and acromion, before the thyroid cartilage; some- times behind the angle of the jaw ; always between the skin and i the projecting side of the articulations of the metacarpus and me- ttatarsus with the fingers and toes, and of those of the first with the ssecond phalanges. All these latter bursas are commonly confound- (ed with those of the neighbouring tendons. To see these membranes distinctly, they must be filled with air. lit is then found that they form a roundish multilocular cavity, ((that is, divided by imperfect septa,) closed on all sides, the air i which is blown into them remaining enclosed, and not making its \way into the surrounding cellular tissue. The walls of the cavity i which they form are very thin, and possessed of little strength. Their texture is very simple, like that of the serous membranes i in general, and seems to differ from that of the cellular tissue only i in being more condensed. There are very few vessels in the sub- stance of these membranes. Their free and contiguous surface is i moistened by an unctuous or mucilaginous fluid, which exists in i too small quantities to be capable of being properly examined. These membranes and the unctuous fluid which they contain, i evidently have for local use to facilitate the motion of the bones un- > der the skin. These bursas are developed at a very early period. They exist at birth, and are then very easily perceived, on account of the ra- ther abundant fluid by which they are moistened. Their development increases in proportion as the parts which they cover are exercised. That of the acromion, for example, be- comes more apparent in individuals who carry burdens on the shoulder, and that of the knee is larger in persons who habitually kneel. 202. They form accidentally in cases where the skin happens to be much rubbed. Mr. Brodie speaks of a hump, on which one -was developed in consequence of the continual rubbing which the skin experienced on that part. The same thing is observed in club- feet, at the place where the skin rubs against the projecting side of the tarsus ; as well as after amputation of the thigh, between the end of the bone and the cicatrix. Dropsy of the subcutaneous synovial bursas constitutes hygroma, an affection long known, which is particularly observed at the knee, before the patella of persons who often rest upon this part, &i priests, devotees, the washer women of certain countries, and female