OF ACCIDENTAL HUMOURS. 3GS of the globules to the fluid part. Its specific gravity is greater than that of water. It has a constant slightly saline taste, and a peculiar faint smell, which varies a little. Pus sinks in water, while mucus floats. By agitation, pus mixes with water, giving it a uniform white colour; mucus, on the contrary, remains in distinct flakes. Pus is coagulated by heat, acids and alcohol. Alkalies render it viscid and ropy, and dissolve it. According to Schwilgue, it is composed of albumen in a par- ticular state, of extractive matter, a fat matter, soda, muriate of soda, phosphate of lime and other salts. It greatly resembles the serum of the blood, from which it appears to differ only in the state of the albumen and extractive matter. Mucus mixes with water, and dissolves by the addition of sulphuric acid, which is not the case with pus. A solution of caustic alkali dissolves both pus and mucus, and by the addition of water pus alone is precipitated. These chemical characters, and others of the same kind, are not so certain as the action of water alone, and especially as microscopic inspection. Pus does not always present exactly the same physical qualities, and the same chemical properties. It may be distinguished into creamy, homogeneous, vulgarly healthy pus ; serous or sanious pus, or purulent serosity ; glairy pus or puriform mucus; cheesy or curdled pus ; and concrete pus. Moreover,. pus may be mixed with blood, serosity, excrcmcntitious matter, putrid matter, acci- dental tissues, calculi, virulent matter, &c. In all cases, it is composed, according to Mr. Pearson, of a white opaque animal oxide, having little solubility, of a limpid fluid resembling the serum of the blcocl, which holds the animal oxide in suspension, but docs not dissolve it; and an innumerable quantity of microscopic globules. The differences which it pre- sents depend upon the different proportions in which these essen- tial materials, as well as the substances, which may occur aceident- . ally in it, exist. 821. Pus may form in most of the organs. The tissue in which suppuration is the most frequent and seems to be produced most easily, is the mucous membrane. Some hours after the application of an irritating cause, the physi- cal and chemical properties of mucus gradually change into those of pus. When the irritation diminishes and ceases, the reverse takes place, and the properties of pus gradually change into ■ those of mucus. The suppuration of the mucus membrane is ac- companied by a slight degree of redness and swelling, and very rarely with ulceration. The skin easily suppurates after it has been irritated, and the epidermis removed. This may continue indefinitely, if the ir- . ritation is kept up, or frequently renewed. The skin then assumes the appearance of an inflamed mucous membrane. The cellular tissue being exposed by the removal of the skin, the hemorrhage stops; there then flows serosity, which gradually