OF THE BONES. S58 weight, equal to that of the earthy matter abstracted, has. become flexible and tenacious like the cartilaginifonn fibrous tissue, in this state it is reducible to glue or gelatin. In this state also, if it be softened by maceration in water, the compact substance, which presented no apparent texture, divides into laminae, connected to- gether by fibres. The laminae themselves, somewhat later, or with more difficulty, divide into fibres, which, by a more prolong- ed maceration, swell, and become areolar and soft* like the cellu- lar or mucous tissue. A long bone, examined by this procedure, divides at its middle part into several layers, of which the outermost envelopes the whole bone, and of which the next, becoming thinner towards the extremities, are continuous with the spongy substance with which they are filled. The broad bones are formed of two laminae only, and the short bones of a single lamina which envelopes them; this latter, like the others, presenting at its internal surface filamentous and laminar prolongations which constitute the spongy substance. The bony fibre differs therefore especially from the other ani- mal fibres in the great quantity of earthy substance which it con- tains. In fact, if in place of removing this earthy substance and exa- mining the organic residuum of which we have just spoken, this latter be destroyed, by submitting a bone to the action of fire, there remains a white substance, preserving the volume, form, and a great part of the weight of the bone. This hard, but very fra- gile substance, is an earthy salt, which forms part of the bony tis- sue. The other tissues leave, after combustion, a similar residuum or ashes, but in much less proportion, and not preserving, like those of the bones, the form and a part of the solidity of the whole. 584. The bony fibre is therefore a fibre very similar to the cellu- lar fibre, but differing from it in the very great quantity of earthy substance which enters into its composition. Various ideas have been formed as to the intimate nature of this fibre. The opinion most generally admitted consists in viewing the tissue of the bones as an areolar organic tissue like the others, but containing earthy substance in extremely narrow cavities, much in the same manner as water is interposed in the tissue of a moist sponge. Others consider the bone as an intimate mixture or a combination of gela- tine and phosphate of lime. Mascagni regards it as formed of ab- sorbent vessels filled with phosphate of lime. These hypotheses, however, do not rest upon any fact, or rather are in contradiction to facts. At the same time it is not known in what exact propor- tion the earthy substance exists to the organic substance of the bones. 585. Some tissues belong essentially to the organization of the bones : these are the periosteum, the marrow, and the vessels. The periosteum is a very vascular fibrous membrane which en- velopes the bone, as has already been seen (522.)