Ned .<H. ion of and raced en assert that they hare nave been discovered in rerrfiia ous, mncb more eo than ferent thickness. Hot- rai possessed of a hi$i laniiest: if tier are fil- ter riici ias been in- is not less e*'3'; ,nd several others. Ifj ipbatii^^, ■oYath *S rcheoii* 3T»* is do ] ritao^j nsibili')') ^"'lajdoPl flirt OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA. 217 the veins, is to say, The fluids without pre- fes. nich are placed at their insertion into ove in them slowly and uniformly, that enting pulsations. Darwin, Thilow and others, to account for the rapidity of cer- i lain secretions, have admitted a retrograde motion of the humours 1 the lymphatic vessels ; such, for example, that fluids absorbed ivy the walls of the stomach might go directly through the lym- ibhatic vessels, and by means of their communications to the kid- itieys and bladder. This is to admit that the valves do not oppose . great obstacle to the return of the fluids. But it is certain, on e contrary, that the valves oppose an insurmountable obstacle to bhe retrograde course of the fluids; and further, direct observa- tions and experiments discover in the urinary passages substances troduced into the stomach, without the intervening lymphatic /essels presenting the least trace of them. ARTICLE II. OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA. 471. The conglobate or ovoidal glands, which interrupt the ccontinuity of the lymphatic vessels, are in the same relation to tthese vessels as the nervous ganglia are to the nerves. These ganglia were known at a very early period. It is partly (of them that Hippocrates speaks under the name of glands. Fr. JSylvius gave them the epithet of conglobate, and Lossius that of 1 lymphatic. Agreeably to the comparison above made by Soemmer- ing, and to avoid confusion, M. Chaussier has designated them by 1 the name of Lymphatic Ganglia. 472. They are situated in the course of all the lymphatic vessels, beginning at the instep and elbow-joint in the limbs, and the caro- tid duct and external base of the skull in the head. Many of them occur in the neck, the axilla and the groin, several in the anterior walls of the thorax and abdomen, and a very great num- ber in the cavities. They are especially abundant around the Toots of the lungs and in the mesentery, consequently near parts which give access to many substances coming from without. None have been discovered within the cranium or spine. Their volume varies, in the state of health, from that of a lentil to that of an almond. In general the smallest are placed towards the roots, and the largest towards the trunks of the vessels. The largest and the nearest to each other occur towards the root of the mesentery ; the smallest in the epiploon. Those of the head and arm are small. Their figure is oblong, rounded, and a little flattened. They are more or less uneven at the surface, and have the general form of an almond The lymphatic ganglia are in general of a reddish white colour,