a«7 APPKNDIX. regeneration of bone had taken place; and as proofs of the conversion of periosteum into an osseous case, sometimes equalling- half an inch in thickness! When the whole shaft of a bone dies, as in the femur or os humeri, the process set up by nature is still of the same description, differing in situation. New bone is formed by the extremities of the old bone, and commences at these extremities, shooting-downwards and upwards, to form a case, which, in a few rare favourable instances, at last entire- ly envelopes the shaft of the old or dead portion of the bone. When a portion only of the shaft is dead, the formation of new bone com - mences at the nearest healthy point, wherever that may be. The cause of the formation of new bone is the presence of the necrosed portion, though the same effect may be produced by an ulcer in the bone, by the presence of any solid extraneous body, or of some other source of irritation. Hence, if, by the unhappy interference of surgi- cal art, the necrosed portion of bone (in cases wherein the shaft has died throughout its whole thickness) be prematurely removed, or much of the new formed bone be destroyed in awkward attempts to accom- plish the same object, the process for regenerating bone will cease, and amputation become indispensable, in order to save the life of the pa- tient. I shall afterwards endeavour to show, that, generally, when an external layer or piece of bone has died, it ought to be early removed; that when an internal portion of bone has become necrosed, it ought to be taken away by an operation, whenever it shall have become a source of much irritation to the patient, or whenever it can be readily got at; but the treatment, in eases where the shaft of a bone has died throughout its whole thickness, will be such as has already been de- scribed. But this process of the regeneration of bone being slow, and often defective towards the middle, even under the most approved treat- ment, the shaft of the bone is not unfrequently detached from its ex- tremities ; and spontaneous fracture happening, amputation becomes necessary. Case II.—James Macdonell, aet. 16, had his thigh amputated at the trochanter major in the winter of 1H14-15, for a necrosis of the os femoris. The state of the parts found, on examination of the limb, was as follows:—The dead part was a portion of the whole shaft, four or five inches long, lying loose in a large cavity filled with pus, and pro- jecting by its lower end through the skin. The new bony case was imperfect, forming about half a cylinder corresponding to the outer and hack part of the limb; so that on the anterior and inner aspect, the se- questra were only covered by the soft parts. The new bony case was continued from the upper and lower ends of the old bone, which were sound; but these upper and lower portions were joined only by soft parts, the deposition of new bone not being complete in the middle of the limb. Hence the limb, which had retained its natural length so long as the sequestra remained connected to the sound ends of the old bone, became so remarkably shortened as soon as the absorbents bad detached this dead piece, in consequence of the retraction of the inferior portion, now unconnected with the superior, except by soft parts. Precisely similar must have been the case in two very beautiful pre-