3C)0 OF THE GANGLIA AND SYMPATHETIC NEKVE, opposite the tip of the sacrum ; and the small palatine ganglion, which sometimes exists in the anterior palatal canal. Lastly, there are also joined to these some variable ganglia, which are sometimes met with on the walls of the arteries, where they replace plexuses, as the ganglion of the anterior communicating artery, that of the cavernous sinus, that of the deep temporal artery, he. All these ganglia have, in general, an irregular and variable figure. They generally have connexions with several nervous trunks or branches. The direction of the medullary filaments which pass through them is very complicated, and it is seldom that these filaments pass through from one side to the other. The pulpy substance of these.ganglia is so intimately united to the medullary filaments, that it is very difficult to separate them. This substance, besides, appears to differ from that of the other ganglia, being harder, denser, and more tenacious. This is especially re- markable in the cceliac ganglia, and in those of their plexuses. The membrane of the ganglia of this series is cellular and firm, but does not possess the ubrous solidity of that of the spinal ganglia. 806. The nervous cords and branches, the nerves, in short, which unite these ganglia, differ remarkably from those which are directly attached to the spinal marrow. In place of diminishing, as they do, in proportion as they recede from their origin or cen- tral extremity, they furnish successive divisions, and are seen to diminish or increase indifferently, or not to undergo any change of volume, as they recede from the ganglia. The ganglionary nerves possess a less power of cohesion, and are more fragile, than the others. The external envelope of the ganglia is continued upon the nerves to a certain distance. Beyond the point at which this continuation ceases to be apparent, the neurilcma appears thinner and more intimately united to the medullary substance than in the other nerves. Their internal substance, like that of the ganglia, results from medullary filaments, and filaments of a reddish grey pulpy substance, which can hardly be separated from them. The filaments, or the twigs united to form a cord, are themselves hardly separable. Lastly, the ganglionary nerves seem formed of the same substances as the ganglia, the latter being only elongated into cords. However, the nerves of the ganglia are not absolutely alike. Those which connect the spinal ganglia with the ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, and the splanchnic nerves, which go from the thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic nerve to the cceliac ganglia, seem intermediate, by their white colour, cylindrical form, fibrillar composition, firmness and tenacity, between the nerves of the spinal marrow and the reddish grey, flattened, irregular, pulpy, soft, and fragile nerves of the sympathetic nerve. Scarpa asserts, that the sympathetic nerves can be anatomically analysed, and re- duced to filaments like the other nerves. This, however, I believe to be impossible, especially in the nerves which form the mesen- teric or intestinal plexuses.