APPENDIX. 388 prorations, now in the possession of Mr. Russell of Edinburgh-. Iu these preparations, the now bone may be seen shooting- downwards and up wards from the extremities of I he old one, and endeavouring to forma base or sheath for the dead portion of bone, which, in these, is com- posed of the whole shaft of the bone. The process is also very finely illustrated) by ;i preparation in the possession of Dr. Barclay of Edin- burgh. Not unfrequently these different modes of regenerating bone exist together in the same limb, i. c. wherever the shaft of the bone has died throughout its w hole thickness, new bone shoots from the old in irre- gular nodules and bridges, or arches are formed, connecting together the nearest points of sound bone, and enclosing the necrosed portion or portions in a sort of cavity. At other places, where the bone has oof died throughout its whole thickness, the remaining sound bone becomes very vascular, spongy and thickened, acquiring sufficient strength to support the limb, and not unfrequently depositing new ossific matter, which, projecting forward, ultimately encloses the portion of bone which has become necrosed. In gunshot nercrosis, or the death of a bone from gunshot wounds, the formation of new ossific matter is generally complicated, and the regeneration of new bone is often effected by circumstances which do not exist in cases of simple necrosis. When a bone has been struck by a musket ball, or other hard body projected by gunpowder, death of the bone struck will, to a certain extent, take place. This, however, most not be considered as an invariable sequence, for cylindrical bones are often struck by musket balls, without being either fractured or kill- ed; nor does death of the bone inevitably happen, though the indivi- dual struck be close to the mouth of the musket fired at him. Case III.—M. J. a private in the regiment of infantry, whilst on patrole (a service he did not much like), was supposed to have fired a ball through his left hand, by placing the palm of the hand on the muzzle of the gun. He was carried to the nearest military station, and I saw him a few hours afterwards. The ball in its passage, had shat- tered the metacarpal bones of the middle and fore fingers; many splin- ters lay exposed on the back of the hand, but still adhering more or less to the surrounding soft parts, and to each other. The laceration of the skin and muscles was great, and the bleeding had been consider- able. In such eases, it has been recommended " to enlarge the wounds and to remove the broken pieces of bone." I followed an opposite treatment with very marked success. After removing a few splinters not larger than pin-heads, which lay on the very surface of the wound made by the exit of the ball, the constant application of cloths dipt in cold water was ordered, and persisted in for three days ; after which a slight suppuration made its appearance, the wounds were in a few days healed up. The man retained the use of his hand; nor were there even any dead pieces of bone discharged, nor did any untoward symp- tom occur throughout the cure. The case of A. B. of the same regiment was not so fortunate. He was a young man of healthy constitution, and had the character of a good soldier. A musket ball was accidentally fired through his hand oy another person; he had no medical attendant for about thirty-six