OF THE VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. S3 I have upon the others in directing their influence ; but more especial- I ly the concentration of life in the central or predominating organs, i in the heart and nervous centre, and in the action of these two parts upon each other. In this respect, however, there are con- siderable differences among the vertebrate animals. 55. Greatly as these animals in fact resemble each other in their ■ characters, they yet present great differences. Their mutual re- semblance exists chiefly in the central part of the nervous system and in its envelope, that is to say in the medulla and spine; and their differences exist in the extremities and at the surface: in t3? i brain, the skull, the organs of sense, the face, the organs of motion, i the limbs and the skin. In like manner, in the organs of the ve- I getative functions, the heart presents many differences ; but the : most remarkable are exhibited in the organs and phenomena of re- spiration ; and as the action of the muscles and nervous system de- pends much upon respiration, the differences in that function pro- duce corresponding varieties in the animal functions. Thus in the mammifera, in which the circulation is double, that is to say, in which all the blood brought from the body is sent to the lung be- fore returning to the body, and in which air is respired, muscular action is energetic. In birds, where the circulation is double, and where the respiration, which is also aerial, is not confined to the lung, but extends to various parts of the body, the vigour of the muscles is still greater. It is weak, and the motions are slow and often interrupted in reptiles, where the circulation is single, and the respiration consequently partial, since only a part of the blood is submitted to the action of the air before returning to the body. Fishes, indeed, have a double circulation, but their respiration cannot be perfect on account of the small quantity of air contained in the water which they respire, and accordingly they remain nearly balanced in the water. The animals of the first two classes have the blood much warmer than those of the other two, which are on this account called cold-blooded animals. The generation also presents a very remarkable difference, according to which the vertebrate animals are divided into oviparous, viviparous, or mam- miferous animals. 56. The oviparous vertebrate animals resemble each other espe- cially in their mode of generation; they have also some common characters of organization in the nervous system and in the bones which envelope it. The oviparous generation consists essentially in the circum- stance that^ the germ is inclosed in its envelope, with a sufficient quantity of nutritious matter for its nourishment until the period of exclusion, so that if the egg remains in the interior, it does not attach itself to the walls of the oviduct, but remains separated. The nourishment of the young animal is contained in a bag which forms part of its intestine, and which is called the vitellus or yolk of the egg. The germ is at first merely an imperceptible appen- dage of the egg, but in proportion as it is nourished it increases in