373 OF THE TUBERCLE. 834. Semi-analogous tissues are: 1st, Some of the above tis- sues, which do not attain a perfect degree of organization ; of which kind are especially cicatrices or accidental cutaneous pro- ductions, the production of compact and feeble white tissue, semi- cartilaginous productions, earthy and stony ossifications, imperfect horny productions, &c.; 2dly, the mother of pearl production, re- sembling the air-bladder of fishes, observed in the walls of cysts, the production of lamellar fungus, &c. ARTICLE II. OF THE HETEROLOGOUS ACCIDENTAL TISSUES. 835. The heterologous accidental or morbid tissues, which are different from any that occur in the organization in its sound and healthy state, are pretty numerous. The most common and best characterized are the tubercle, schirrus, the cerebriform tissue and melanosis. Some others of rarer occurrence will be mentioned as we proceed. 836. These tissues probably commence with the fluid state; but from the moment when they can first be perceived, they are solid. They continue a longer or shorter time in this state, which is named crudity or organization; a state in which they may be compared to zoophytes, in which they for the most part present vessels, and in which they are indolent and injure only mechani- cally. They afterwards soften, decompose and become fluid. In this state, which Bayle compares to an anticipated death, they cause more or less acute pains, sometimes none at all, irritate and inflame the neighbouring parts, exercise a deleterious action upon the whole organism, and particularly upon the nutrition, and even upon that of the bones, and then extend and multiply more or less rapidly in the organization. The origin and cause of these tissues are unknown. They have been considered as innate or hereditary; as resulting from an aberration of the formative action; as organized beings de- veloping themselves, and dying prematurely in the midst of the or- ganization ; as products or results of inflammation and irritation, &c. These are merely hypotheses, however, which are more or less ingenious. These tissues exist under the form of isolated masses, of enve- loped masses, of infiltrations in the tissue of the organs, &c. Sometimes they exist singly, and sometimes are combined with each other, and with other accidental productions, as well as with altered tissues and humours. I.—Of the tubercle. 837- The tubercle, or tubercles, for they generally occur many together, constitute the most common morbid tissue They are