SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES OK THE TENDONS. 109 I cular manner, and line on the other side a canal in which they are contained, these two isolated portions joining each other at the ex- i tremitics, so as to be separated by an interval which constitutes the i cavity of the membrane. Among these latter there are some which ; are simple at one of their extremities, and at the other present a kind of digitations which correspond to an equal number of ten- dinous portions or of different tendons, these tendons being at first united and afterwards separating from each other. This is what is observed at the wrist, under the annular ligaments which occur there. 205. The very loose and membraniform cellular tissue which is observed between the muscles that perform frequent and extensive motions, as under the latissimus dorsi, the rectus femoris anticus, the muscles of the calf, &c, constitutes, in some measure, the ru- diment of the membrane of which we speak. Synovial membranes occur around the tendons, in the places where the latter rub upon the bones, slide at their surface or upon other parts, or where they are reflected and change their direction. Sometimes these mem- branes exist between two tendons which move upon each other. The glutaeus maximus, at the place where it slides upon the trochanter, the obliquus oculi superior, at the place where it is reflected in its pulley, the lateral peronaei, where they change their direction to gain the sole of the foot, &c. are furnished with synovial mem- branes. In general, these membranes are in connexion with bones or fibrous rings. They are especially very common around the joints, because it is there that the tendons are peculiarly situated, as may be seen at the knee, the elbow, and the wrist. The two kinds of which we have spoken occur in these places. Some of these capsules are confounded with the subcutaneous bursoe, or with the synovial bursce of the joints. That of the triceps, for example, is not always isolated, and often appears a continuation of the sy- novial capsule of the knee. 206. The adherent surface of these membranes, besides being attached to the tendon and the part on which it rubs, is in connex- ion, in the interval between them, with the cellular and adipose tissues. It often adheres to fibrous tissue, as to the tendinous sheaths, or to fibro-cartilaginous tissue, as in the places where the tendons slide upon the bones, and opposite which the periosteum has a cartilaginous appearance. Their interior presents a cavity which is commonly simple, but sometimes compound, being traver- sed by septa formed of a kind of fibrous prolongations. Fringed prolongations occur in some of them, as in that situated behind the calcaneum. There also occur in them cellular or adipose pellets, but only in those which have the vesicular form, the vaginal kind not having any. These prolongations have been likened to excre- tory ducts. Roscnmuller describes follicles in these membranes. I have not seen any, however. Villositics are met with in them, which pour out the synovia. 207- The synovial membranes of the tendons arc whitish, semi-