74 QF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. nature, that is to say of ligamentous tissue, or of serous tissue, all of them present it in a more or less distinct degree. The envelope which this layer represents, is continuous, on the one hand, with the common cellular tissue, and, on the other, with that which occupies the interior of the organ. According to the form of the latter, its cellular envelope varies in its disposition. The skin, the mucous and serous membranes, the blood-vessels and lym- phatics, and the excretory ducts, which have only one of their surfaces free, are only in connexion with the cellular tissue on one side. On the contrary, the organs which are destitute of cavities, as the muscles, are on all sides surrounded by it. Under the skin, the cellular tissue forms a layer which extends over the whole body, excepting the places where the muscles or aponeuroses are inserted. This subcutaneous tissue is more or less dense, according to the regions in which it is examined. It is closer in its texture along the whole extent of the median line, excepting in the neck, where that line is very indistinct. Bordeu has exaggerated this disposi- tion when he says that it divides the whole body into two portions; for it is evident that at a certain depth all traces of it disappear. In the places where the motions are very decided, the cellular tissue is looser, as is observed in the palpebral, the prepuce, the scrotum, and the labia pudendi. It is, on the contrary, of close texture in the places where the skin does not slide upon the parts beneath it, as in the palms and soles, over the sternum, upon the back, &c. The mucous membranes are covered on their adhering surface, by a very dense cellular tissue, which commonly obtains the name of nervous membrane. That which covers the adhering surface of the serous membranes is in general flocculent. That which exists around canals forms particular sheaths for them. Their sheaths are of great importance to the arteries in particular, but equally occur round the veins, the lymphatic trunks, and excretory ducts. Around the muscles* the cellular tissue forms a layer which is called their common membrane. 140. The portion of the cellular tissue which penetrates into the organs, accompanies them and envelopes all their parts, (textus cellularis stipatus,) presents different appearances in the different organs. In the muscles, it forms an envelope for each bundle, and furnishes smaller envelopes to the secondary bundles or fasci- culi, and the fibres of which they are composed. The cellular tissue of a muscle thus represents a series of inclosed tubes con- nected with each other by continuity in the same manner as the envelopes proper to the different organs are connected with the general envelope of the body. The glands, in like manner, have their lobes, their lobules, and the granulations of which the latter are composed, surrounded by envelopes becoming successively smaller, and which, if separated from the rest of the gland, would form a kind of cellular sponge. The organs which are composed of several membranous layers, as the stomach, intestine and blad- der, contain cellular tissue between then- different layers. Certain very compound organs, m the lungs, have more or less cellular