!■! 1111 ■ %OTIf»lAlLr OF THE GANGLIA AND SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 303 connexion with the nervous centre, whose development it precedes; which retains a part of the state of dispersion presented by the nervous system of the invertebrate animals, and which also forms some principal centres, as the cardiac plexus, and especially the ganglia, and the ceeliac or solar plexus, which has been termed an abdominal or epigastric brain, must necessarily possess a great importance in the organism. But before exposing the functions of the sympathetic nerve, we must examine those of the gan- glia. 813. Willis had an idea respecting the ganglia and sympathetic nerve, pretty similar to that which is generally entertained at the present day ; he considered the ganglia as diverticula of the spirits, and the sympathetic nerve as placed between the cerebral concep- tions and the precordial affections, between the actions and pas- sions, in such a manner as to establish a consent or sympathy be- tween the parts. Vieussens also considered the intercostal nerve as a medium of sympathy placed between the brain and the viscera of the other two cavities ; and placed in the ganglia, which he named plexus, a centre of muscular and fermentative action. Lancisi also re- garded the ganglia as centres of impulsion which he compared to the heart. Winslow, who first employed the name of sympathetic nerve, considered the ganglia as centres of origin, or small brains. Meckel attributed to the ganglia the uses; 1 st, of dividing the nervous twigs into ramuscules, and the latter into filaments ; 2dly, of making twigs arrive at remote places by different directions; 3dly, of uniting several twigs into a single cord. Zinn maintained the same opinion, adding, that the twigs brought together from different points in a ganglion, are more intimately mingled than in the plexus. Johnstone considered the ganglia as brains capable of developing and communicating the nervous power, as the origin of the invo- luntary nerves, and as calculated to interrupt the influence of the will upon the organs having involuntary motion, such as the heart, Haase, who unites the ganglia and plexuses, combats Johnstone's opinion by the arguments, that voluntary muscles receive nerves from the spinal ganglia, and that involuntary organs, as the sto- mach, receive nerves from the par vagum. Scarpa adopts an opinion similar to that of Meckel and Zinn. According to him, the use of the ganglia is to separate, mingle, and unite again the nervous filaments. The nerves of the viscera emanate directly from the spinal nerves, and the fifth and sixth pairs, and are only collected in the ganglia. All these opinions, as will be seen, may be reduced to two. Some anatomists, as Meckel, Zinn, Haase, Scarpa, and more recently, Legallois, have seen in the ganglia nothing else than a particular arrangement, an anatomical disposition of the nervous filaments ■ while others, as "Winslow, Johnstone, Eecat, Petit, Metzgcr, &c.