2^0 OF THE LIGAMENTOUS TISSUE IN GENERAL. to me preferable, because, although it signifies ligamentous, it has not been applied to the ligaments in particular. 497- The most ancient anatomists, Hippocrates and Aristotle, confounded all the white parts under the name of nerves; whence the names aponeurosis, synneurosis, inneuration, musculus semi- nervosus, &c. The Alexandrian school, and Galen especially, clearly distinguished the ligaments, tendons and nerves. Galen and Vesalius had already noticed the similarity which exists between the ligaments and certain membranes, and Ad. Mur- ray had pointed out the very great resemblance which exists be- tween the tendons, the ligaments and the aponeuroses. Isenflamm* has also offered some remarks on this tissue ; but it was Bichat who first considered all the parts possessed of this tissue together, under the name of fibrous tissue. He comprehended in it the elastic tis- sue which 1 have separated from it (361), and excluded another kind which I have united to it, and which is the libro-cartilaginous tissue of the articulations and tendinous grooves. FIRST SECTION. 0F THE LIGAMENTOUS TISSUE IN GENE1IAE. 498. The Ligamentous Organs do not form a continuous whole*. A centre, however, has been sought for them, and it has been tried to associate together all the parts of this system. A very ancient opinion, anterior to Galen, but announced in one of his treatises, attributed to the pericranium the origin of all the nervous membranes. It has been thought that the Arabians, by translating into their language the word meninx (jj-wiyZ) by a word which has the same signification, and also that of mother (mrtig), considered the membranes of the brain as the generator of all the other membranes. This however is an error, the blame of which is to be ascribed to Sylvius, who has represented the meninges as fecund membranes and mothers. At a much later period Bonn, and quite recently Clarus, have in some measure attributed the same quality to the enveloping aponeuroses. Bichat has pointed out the periosteum as the central part of the fibrous system. But this system, which is formed of parts independent of each other, properly speaking, has no centre. Some of its parts arc even en- tirely isolated from the others. It is a very generally distributed tis- sue, having much affinity to the cellular tissue, and in various places continuous with it. 499. The ligamentous tissue presents itself under two principal forms, that of the band or cord, as the ligaments and tendons, and « Bannkungen liber die Jkcltsen, in Ut Uiage fur die Zaglkda ungskuint. Bund. I. j^ipzig, 180$