274. OF THE HONKS. happened two or three years previously. The articular cartilage was all that was wanting at this extremity. The broad bones are also subject to necrosis, but their repro- duction is rare or imperfect. The scapula, however, after being affected with necrosis, has been seen to be replaced by two other bones. Necrosis of the short bones is much more common than is sup- posed. It commonly exists under the form of a slough inclosed at the centre of the bone. This constitutes many of the alleged cases of caries of the bones of the tarsus, carpus, &c. 610. The bony substance of new formation by which the solu- tions of continuity in bones are united, is named callus.* When a long bone is fractured, besides the rupture of the os- seous substance, there takes place a rupture of the medullary membrane, and commonly also of the periosteum, as well as of the vessels of these membranes and of the bone. There results from these vascular and other divisions, a more or less considerable ef- fusion of blood around and in the interval of the fragments. If the latter are kept in perfect contact, an agglutination is presently effected between them and between the other divided parts. There also supervene a swelling and distention of the soft parts that have been divided and of those which surround them, which hecome compact like inflamed cellular tissue. The marrow, at the place of the fracture, especially participates of this state. All these parts, and especially the agglutinating or organizable substance which distends them, successively ossify, and form at the exterior a bony ring of greater or less extent, the thickness of which di- minishes from the centre or from the seat of the fracture towards the two extremities, and at the interior a fusiform bony mass. The bone, however of which the two fractured portions are thus brought together, seems until now to be in no degree affected by the changes which are taking place around it. It is only from this period, and in proportion as these temporary external and internal ossifications diminish and disappear by absorption, that the agglutination of the fragments becomes converted into a permanent bony union. Several pathologists, and in particular Bonn, Callisen, and J. Bell, have contented themselves with observing the facts without attempting to explain them. Numerous hypotheses, however, have been proposed for the explanation of these remarkable phenomena. Boerhaave, Haller, and Detlef, his disciple, have admitted that the fragments are united by a glutinous or coagulable matter. J. Hunter, Macdonald, and Howship, have thought that this organizable and agglutinating matter is furnished by the blood. It is well known that Duhamel and Fougeroux have admitted that the periosteum furnishes a bony ring which unites the frag- ments. Blumenbach has given the figure of a human bone sur- * Duhamel, Mem. de VAcad. Boy. des Sc., Paris, 1741—Boehmer, De Ostium eallo, Lips. 1748. P. Camper, Observai'wiics circa callutn Otsium Fractorum, in Essays and Observ. Phys. and Liter, vol. iii. Edin. 1771—Bonn, Dr. Ossium Callo, &.c. .Amste), 1783 Macdonald, op. cit J. Howship, in Med. Chir. Trans, vol. ix. Lond. 1816.—Breschet, Queues Reel enhes Hist, cl Expcrim. tur fecal Paris, 1819.