OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 330 according to that physiologist, is the balancer or arranger of the motions. According to him, the removal of the cerebellum ren- ders the animal incapable of acting in a regular and co-ordinated manner for producing standing and locomotion. M. Magendie thinks that sensibility is inherent in the spinal marrow, an opinion which he founds upon the experiments of Lorry and Legallois, together with his own. This excellent phy- siologist is of opinion that the will or the faculty of determining muscular motions resides in the highest part of the cranial medulla, extending as far as the optic tubercles and the peduncles of the brain ; that the optic tubercles are necessary to the lateral motions; that the cerebral hemispheres are necessary for the production of motion forwards, and the cerebellum for the contrary motion. Re- moval of one or other of these organs suppresses its action, and determines the irresistible action of the other. Removal of an optic thalamus induces a turning motion. MM. Foville and Pinel Grandchamps have been led by obser- vations in morbid anatomy, to which they added experiments on animals, to establish the seat of sensibility in the cerebellum, and that of voluntary motion in the medullary substance of the hemis- pheres ; the anterior part and the corpus striatum for the abdo- minal limb, the optic thalamus and the posterior part of the he- misphere for the upper limb. M. Duges,* by an ingenious collection of physiological and pa- thological facts, also places the seat of sensibility in the cerebellum, and that of voluntary motion in the hemisphere of the brain, ad- mitting that sensation is transmitted directly to the side of the ce- rebellum corresponding to the impression. On the contrary, as has long been known, volition is transmitted from one side of the brain to the opposite side of the body. These different opinions, which contradict each other in some points, all rest upon facts that have been more or less correctly observed. New facts, however, are necessary to dissipate the un- certainties which still remain on this subject. The transmission of feeling takes place by means of the poste- rior part of the spinal marrow, and that of motion by means of its anterior part. As will subsequently be seen, there are particular nerves for each of these functions. The spinal marrow, which in these functions only performs the part of a conductor, is the seat or origin of the principle of irrita- bility. If the spinal marrow be divided at its middle part in a liv- ing animal, the posterior parts of the body remain destitute of sensibility or motion. If the skin of this part of the body be irri- tated, the irritation, which is not felt, causes involuntary motions in the muscles of this part. If the spinal marrow is removed, and the central connexion of the nerves thereby destroyed, motions can no longer be determined by irritating the skin. • Unpublished Memoir.