105 OF THE SEUOUS MEMBRANES. surface is doubled by a natural membrane which tbey have carried with them in protruding at a surface. Their internal surface is smooth and polished. The thickness varies, and is not in general so <*reat in the cysts of the organs as in those of the free cellular tissue ; it also varies in the different parts of the same cyst. The consistence varies from that of a scarcely concrete fluid to that of the serous tissue, and even of the fibrous tissue. This is also the case with their adhesion, which is sometimes intimate, and some- times seem to consist of a mere agglutination. There arc no ap- parent vessels at their free surfaces. The fluid which they con- tain is equally variable. Sometimes there occurs in them a sero- sity which is limpid, or more or less thick, and as it were albumi- nous, and variously coloured ; sometimes fat in the fluid state, or in spangles and forming cholesterine; in some cases, mucus or a viscous substance, which, in place of coagulating, is almost entirely evaporated by heat, and leaves very little residuum ; at other times a mixture of mucus and albumen, or a blackish matter resembling chocolate, sometimes even pure blood ; sometimes hydatic worms ; sometimes crystallized saline substances. There has also been found in them a concrete substance resembling caoutchouc. The cysts are in a state of repletion which may be compared to dropsy of the serous membranes. They are the seat of a continual secretion and absorption. They disappear in certain cases, persist in some, and continually enlarge in others. Various hypothesis have been proposed for explaining the for- mation of cysts. Some consider them as membranes of new for- mation which are developed round a substance originally existing. Others again think that they exist before the matters which they contain, whether they are formed by the distended cellular tissue, or owe their origin to dilated lymphatic vessels. It is difficult to settle the question in a decisive manner, cases occurring which are favourable to both these opinions. Certain tissues which are ranked among the cysts are evidently pre-existent. To this class may be referred the subcutaneous wens, which are nothing else than seba- ceous follicles greatly enlarged and not accidental bags, the cysts of the testicular cord of man, or of the lip of the vulva in women, which are remains of the tunica vaginalis, &c. On the other hand, certain cysts form consecutively. Such are those which succeed effusions of blood in the brain, those which are developed round a foreign body, Sec. In other circumstances, it is very difficult to determine the mode and period of commencement of cysts. It is highly probable, however, that all the true cysts are membranes of new formation determined or not by an evident inflammation. Cysts are susceptible of all the affections of serous membranes : They are subject to all the varieties of inflammation, and to accidental productions, whether similar or morbid. They have been observ- ed in all parts of the body, excepting perhaps the bones and car- tilages. With the cysts are commonly confounded the new cellular mem-