164 OF THE VASCULAIl SYSTEM. supplying materials of composition in the substance of the organs, and constantly carrying oft' those resulting from decomposition. 347. In the most simple animals, the entire mass of the body, which is in all parts equally permeable, directly imbibes the mate- rials of absorption, and rejects those of secretion in the same simple manner. In animals possessed of a higher degree of organic com- position, the tegument, which is the essential seat of external ab- sorption and secretion^ is prolonged into the mass of the body by more or less numerous ramifications, by means of which the ab- sorbed matters are distributed, and the excreted matters taken up, in various points of the mass. Lastly, in a higher degree of orga- nization, which comprehends a great portion of the animal king- dom, vessels traverse the mass of the body in all directions, distri- buting and taking up the matter of nutrition in all parts. 348. As in man as well as in many animals, the blood contain- ed in the vessels is continually carried from a central point into all the parts, and brought back from all the parts to the centre, so as to describe a circle, the name of circulatory apparatus also is bestowed upon the vascular system and the parts connected with it, the first name having reference to conformation, the other to func- tion. This system or genus of organs comprehends three species, of which two, the arteries and veins, contain blood. The arteries, which carry it to all the parts, and the veins which bring it back from all the parts, are united at the centre by a hollow muscular organ, the heart. The third species, the lymphatic vessels, do not carry blood, but chyle and lymph, and pour them into the veins. They ought to be considered as an appendage to the venous system. 349- The arteries and veins are in such a relation to the heart and the blood, that they may be further divided into two other sections. The blood is brought by the veins from all parts of the body to the heart, and from thence conducted to the lung by the pulmonary artery. It returns from the lungs by the pulmonary veins to the heart, to be carried by the aorta to all the parts of the body, whence it is brought back by the venre cava?. The name of pul- monary or lesser circulation is given to the course of the blood from the heart to the lung and from the lung to the heart, and the name of pulmonary vessels to the organs by which this circulation is ef- fected. The name of general or great circulation is given to the course of the blood from the heart to the whole body, and from all the parts of the body to the heart, and the names of aorta and venae cavae, or of general vessels, are given to the organs which convey the blood in this course. 350. The blood contained in the general veins of the body, the anterior or right half of the heart, and the pulmonary artery, is of a brownish red colour, and is called venous blood. That contained in the pulmonary veins, the other half of the heart and the aortic