01-' Tilt; SKIN IN GENERAL. 152 carbon which would combine with the oxygen of the atmosphere to form carbonic acid. It is at least certain that, if in man whose epidermis is dry, and whose pulmonary expiration is of great ex- tent, the air exercises a vivifying action upon the blood which cir- culates in the skin, this action is by no means capable of supply- ing that of the lungs. 315. The skin excretes an oily matter,* which Cruickshank suc- ceeded in obtaining under the form of dark-coloured drops at the surface of a knitted woollen under-vest which he had worn night and day during a month, in the warmest time of summer. This matter rubbed on paper exhibits the same appearance as fat. It burns with a white flame, and leaves a carbonaceous residuum. It is uncertain if this oil, which has been said to be subcutaneous fat transuding through the skin, is furnished by the same passages as the preceding or the following. 316. The cutaneous follicles secrete a sebaceous matter. This matter is thick, not glutinous, and without fibrous appearance when hardened. On being suspended in water by trituration, it forms a kind of emulsion, but does not dissolve in it. It does not melt in the fire, and when burnt leaves much charcoal. It contains, espe- cially the cerumen, a proportion of oil which may be separated from it by absorbent paper. This matter forms in the sebaceous follicles, whence it may be made to issue by pressure in the form of small worms, and from which it exudes of itself to anoint the skin in the neighbourhood, and to defend it especially from the action of wa- ter and excrementitious humours. It is of these three matters together that the cutaneous excre- tion consists, an excretion which is very abundant, and of which a portion is continually converted into vapour, while the more fixed parts cover the skin, and are afterwards detached from it under the form of dandriff. To these excretions ought to be added that of the epidermis, which while it is continually worn at its outer sur- face, is incessantly reproduced at the other. 317- The skin is an organ of sensation. It is, still more than the other tegumentary membrane, the organ of the general and pas- sive touch which enables us to perceive the presence of bodies, their temperature, &c. Further, and especially in certain places, abundantly supplied with nerves and vessels, and well fitted for adapting themselves to the form of bodies, it is an organ of spe- cial or active touch, or of palpation. Both modifications of touch are so much the more active the more developed and less covered the papillse are. 318. Lastly, The skin is a defensive organ, of little efficacy in man, but of much in certain animals, in which the corpus muco- sura is the seat of calcareous and horny incrustations. It is evi- dent that this organ, whose functions are so numerous, and whose texture is so complicated, cannot have one of its parts, or one of its " Liuhvig mid Gmtzmacher, Dc Humorc Cutcm inwigenir.. Lipsix, 174-8- ~