OF THE BONES. Chir. Transac Vol. viii. and x. 270 612. The loss of substance of the long bones, in young and healthy subjects, is followed by a more or less extensive, and sometimes complete reproduction. In birds,* the periosteum may even be removed, together with a large portion of one of the bones of the fore-arm, and these parts are in time reproduced by a kind of vegetation of the two ends. In the human species, when the loss of substance of a bony cylinder is considerable, and the dispo- sition of the parts does not admit of the fragments being brought together, there is produced, by the sinking and elongation of the ends, a cartilaginiform fibrous substance, which does not acquire the hardness of bone in its whole extent. These more or less advantageous results of the reproduction of a portion of bone that has been removed, have given rise to the practice, in certain cases, of cutting out portions of diseased bones in their state of continuity.t 613. When the callus afcer having commenced is subjected to repeated motions of flexion, twisting, distention, &c. it remains flexible, as in the preceding case, or no union takes place at all, and the ends of the bones remain in contact. This is also the case when the ends of bones are separated by a layer of muscular tissue of any thickness. 614. The broad bones have a stronger power of reparation and reproduction than the long bones. After the bones of the skull have been trepanned a production is formed which is seldom bony to the centre. After the same operation, if the separated bony oper- culum is reapplied, it sometimes unites. I The phenomena of re- production are very imperfectly known in the short bones. 615. The separation of the epiphyses § takes places, in young subjects, from mechanical causes, like fractures, and the parts thus separated unite again by means of a similar callus. Chronic in- flammation of the joints of the long bones also sometimes, in chil- dren and young persons, causes the separation of their epiphyses, which are not yet united. Both of these kinds of separations are rare. A case of false joint in consequence of the fracture of the neck of the femur, has lately been published as an example of ser paration of the epiphysis in an adult. 616. When an aneurismal tumour meets with a bone in the course of its development, the latter is gradually destroyed in the place which is in contact with the tumour, without any residuum of its substance remaining. This destruction bears the name of usure. 617. The morbid anatomy of the bones|| has already given rise to numerous works and engravings. It still, however, presents, * Charmeil. Op. Cit. f ltoux, De la Itdscction, <J-<\ Paris, 1812.—-Champion, De la Bisection des ot dans Itur continuity. Paris, 1815. % Merrem, Animadvtrtimes quttdam, S^c. Giess. 1810. § Reichel, De Epiphysium ub ossium diaphysi didnclioiie. Lips. 17C9. || A. Bonn. Desciiptio Thesauri Ossium Morbosotum Hoviani. Amstel. 1783.—- Ed. Sandifort, Museum Anat. Acad. Lugduno-Batavce. Lugd. Bat. 1793—C. Fi Clossius, Uber die Krankfteiton Der'knochcn. Tubingen, 1798.—J. Howship, in Wed.