194 OF THE AKTEIUES. opinion as to their number, it being carrried to five by some ana- tomists and reduced to one by others. It may be fixed at three, an outer, a middle, and an inner. 410. The outer membrane, called also cellular, nervous, fibrous, &c. is thin and of a whitish colour, and formed of oblique fibres, interlaced diagonally with reference to the length of the vessel. Externally this tissue is rather loose, and is attached to the sheath. Internally, on the contrary, the fibres are so close that they can only be perceived on tearing them asunder. In the arterial trunks this twofold disposition is so distinct that the outer layer really appears double. In the middle-sized and small arte- ries, on the contrary, this layer becomes uniformly compacted and distinct from the cellular tissue of the sheath, and then bears a great resemblance to the ligamentous tissue. This membrane is possessed of great strength and elasticity, both in its longitudinal direction and circularly. Being pliant and tough at the same time, it is not divided by the action of ligatures, even although directly applied to it. When it is torn asunder, much difficulty is experienced, and the texture of its oblique fibres is perceived, which render its tenacity equal in all directions. 411. The middle membrane, named also the muscular, tendinous, proper membrane, he. is thick and of a yellowish colour, and is formed of nearly circular or annular fibres. This membrane, the thickest of the three, is vei'y apparent in the trunks. It increases proportionally in thickness, as the arteries diminish in volume. Its thickness is inconsiderable in the arteries of certain viscera, and especially in the arteries of the brain. It can be divided into several layers by dissection. It is probably this circumstance that has led those into error who have admitted more than three arte- rial memorises. The external fibres are less close, the deeper more so, and thus progressively. These fibres do not all form the circuit of the vessel. The longitudinal and spiral fibres which have been admitted in the middle membrane do not exist there. In the places where the arteries divide, the circular fibres of the trunk separate and form on each side a half ring, and the annular fibres of the branch follow that. The middle membrane is inti- mately attached to the outer. The middle membrane has so great a degree of firmness, that when separated from the others it retains its cylindrical form. It is to it that the arteries owe their faculty of remaining open when they are empty. When isolated, it is found to possess a feeble power of resistance and elasticity, in the longitudinal direction of the arteries, but is very tenacious and elastic in the direction of its fibres, or, in other words, in that of the circumference of the ves- sel. The firmness and elasticity of the fibres, which form it, suc- cessively diminish from the large towards the small arteries. It has been by turns compared and likened to the muscular fibre in general, the muscular fibre of the uterus, and the fibrous or liga- mentous tissue. It constitutes a species of clastic tissue, a tissue