^73 OF THE I50NE.S. f Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal. 1822 and 1823. teum and its vessels, has furnished the materials, which being de- posited in its substance, and especially in its internal surface, have passed through all the states of fluidity and successive hardening which the regular bones present, excepting that the bony hardenr ing commences in many points at once. Experiments made on living animals show, that when the pe- riosteum is torn off", it is reproduced along with the bone; but the hardening of the latter is retarded during the whole of the time necessary for the reproduction of its vascular envelope. When it is a new bone that is formed, the separated piece has the same volume and appearance as the original bone, presenting the same processes, impressions, lines, and inequalities. Other pathologists,* and in particular MM. Leveille and Ri- eherand, maintain that in all cases the necrosis in question is confined to an internal portion of the substance of the walls of the medullary canal, and that the new bone simply results from the outer part of the original bone which the necrosis has not affected, and which has only undergone changes of volume and consistence. It is certainly so in many cases, and then the slough has a di- ameter sensibly less than the original bone, and its surface is rough and uneven. [It has, however, been shown by Dr. Knox,-f- that this theory of the regeneration of bone in cases of necrosis, is not applicable to all cases of necrosis. He instances many cases he has seen of necrosis from gun-shot and from other causes, the celebra- ted case of D'Angerville and the specimen of necrosed scapula in the museum of Charenton, as cases which all preceding theories fail to explain. With reference to such cases it may be distinct- ly proved, that where the entire shaft of the bone is dead, and new bone has formed, the new bone will be found to proceed from, and to be produced by the extremities of the old bone; but if it be a portion of the shaft only which has died, implicating, however, its entire thickness, that then the reproduction of bone to supply the place of the dead portion takes place close to the line of ul- ceration or separation of the hying from the dead portion, wherever that may be, the growth of new bone then is in all cases from some point or other of the old bone. This theory, which will be found more fully explained in the ap- pendix, is not exclusiye; it simply explains the reproduction of bone in cases which had previously been totally misunderstood.] Tit The extremities of the long bones become affected with necrosis, and are reproduced much less frequently than their body. It is not uncommon, however, to observe these phenomena at the upper extremity of the humerus. They have also been observed at the lower extremity of the bones of the fore-arm. I have extracted from the interior of a new bone the lower extremity of the tibia, which had become affected with necrosis after a fracture which " Leveille and llicherand are the mere copyists of Scarpa, and it is sufficiently - singular that M- Beclard should have omitted .Scarpa's name,