OI- THE NKRVOUS SYSTEM. The nervous cords or nerves, to the number of forty and a few more pairs, are connected with the medulla by one extremity. They present a certain number of plexus in which they communi- cate together. Numerous ganglia are met with in their course. The cords terminate at their other extremity in the two teguments, the organs of sense, the muscles, and the walls of the vessels, espe- cially the substance of the arteries. 743. The form of the nervous system is, in general symmetri- cal. Its symmetry is especially very decided in the central parts, and still more so in the spinal marrow than in the encephalon, where the surface of the lobes of the brain and cerebellum always present irregularities. The nerves which are directly connected with the spinal marrow are all symmetrical, excepting the pneumo- gastric, which is distributed to unsymmetrical organs. All of them, however, cease to be, in their last divisions, so strictly sym- metrical as in their trunks. The ganglia and nerves which belong to the unsymmetrical organs of the vegetative functions partake be- yond their central parts, but especially in their divisions, and at their peripheral extremities, of the irregularities of these organs, 744. The situation of the nervous system is internal and cen- tral in its masses, and still deep in the nervous cords. The ex- tremities alone of these cords end at the surfaces of the body, the two teguments. 745. The nervous system is formed of two substances, distin- guished by their colour and relative situation, into white or medul- lary, and grey or cortical. 746. The white nervous substance, also called medullary, me- dullaris, because it is generally enveloped by the other, presents several shades of white. Its consistence varies a little in the different parts. It is in ge- neral less elastic than gelatine, but a little more glutinous, viscous or tenacious. A section of it presents a uniform colour and homo- geneous appearance ; only there are perceived red dots upon it or streaks of blood. In fact, this substance is highly vascular; and when it is torn, the broken vessels are seen to project at the un- even surface left. The white nervous substance, immersed for some minutes in boiling oil, or for some days in alcohol, diluted nitric or muriatic acids, acidulated alcohol, or a solution of corrosive sublimate, in- creases in consistence ; and if it be then tried to stretch and break it in any direction, it is seen to present a fibrous appearance. White filaments, as fine as hairs, may be separated from it. The finest fibres that can be obtained are so delicate and so closely at- tached to each other, that it is very difficult to say any thing posi- tively respecting their length and the diameter of the finest or pri- mary fibrils. These fibrils, which are parallel or concentric, are united into bundles, which have different directions with respect to each other. It is not exactly known if this fibrous disposition exists in the whole nervous system ; only it has been found wherever it