OF THE HAIR'S. 139 ilender and elongated, which, in greater or less number, cover 'mearly all the parts of the skin, excepting the palms and soles. Each hair consists of a bulb and a stem, and each of these parts las a somewhat complicated texture, which is especially distinct in «tbhe largest hairs. 336. The bulb or follicle of the hairs, which Malpighi compared too the vessels in which gardeners plant flowers, and which has been • .veil described by Chirac, is situated in the substance of the der- ircnis or beneath it. It has an ovoidal form. By one of its extre- nities, which penetrates obliquely through the skin, it eonununi- ,.n'"c;'i- crates with the surface of that membrane; and by the other, whieh i>s deep-seated, and furnished with some filaments, inserted like "'riv ic roots, it is immersed in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, it is iiPormed externally of a closed, white, coriaceous capsular membrane, ^itil ' which is continued at its superficial extremity with the dermis. In- : i- teernally of this membrane is another thinner membrane, which is ::" -.a!. MSoft, and of a reddish tint, or variously coloured, and which seems jkio be the continuation of the corpus mucosum. The cavity of lougsted, itthis membranous follicle is in a great measure filled with a conical upomll jppapilla, adhering by its base to the bottom of the cavity, and free ex. aat its summit, which rises towards the orifice of the follicle, ttrix, or in Blood-vessels arrive in the papilla, according to Gautier, by the r,neck of the bulb, creeping between these two membranous layers, mcl according to my own observations by the bottom. I have also t'followed by dissection nervous filaments into the root of the fol- licle, which I therefore consider as formed of vessels, nerves, and icellular tissue. The bulbs of the hairs therefore seem to consist of a small part of m, y i tbhe skin, sunk, depressed, or folded upon itself, surmounted by aa papilla, and furnished with vessels and nerves which are of great •size when compared with the smallness of the space to which they aare distributed. Lastly, there occur in the substance of the neck of this pilifer- oous bulb several small sebaceous follicles circularly arranged. 337. The shaft of the hair is inserted by one of its extremities into the piliferous bulb, and is free in the rest of its extent. Its tform is conical, the free extremity being a little smaller than the irest. It varies greatly in length, as well as in thickness. The bbase is hollow, lodged in the bulb, where it embraces the papilla, aand the summit is often split. Whatever be the colour of the hhair, its root is always white and transparent. The part contained within the bulb is also always softer than the rest, and its lowest pportion, which covers the papilla, is entirely fluid. The surface of (tithe hair has been said to be scaly or covered with microscopic as- 0. Jpperities, free in the direction of the summit, and adhering on the t-side next the root; but I have never been able to perceive them. S 338. The connexion of the hair with the skin takes place in the ■('(following manner: It is attached by its base, which is hollow, to 'tithe surface of the papilla; moreover, the epidermis, after intro- riously Wed in nee. At \ parts of ie mucous m, vege- from the tateof the 'tk&ii. L