NTS* ?f4IS ^ the bones in»i ^ the thickness of tbc ' jiones takes place in the furnii/ied with epiphyses,- rone and the base of the others, it is at the sur-' mlfintkm? man. . Most of tie eminen- of the external caritial s determined bj pre> bone, wife irities destined to leg u t.ili andtbatottM talent bra , vertei avityb , Teniov 0*W OF HIE HONKS. •2<;; mation at the surface of the bones. This last kind of growth con- nues somewhat longer than the first. The growth of the bones nevertheless continues to take place, tut locally, and in an insensible manner, although sometimes in a uanner which is still pretty sensible. The sensible growth depends upon a kind of juxta-position at ie extremities, edges, and surfaces of the bones. The insensible xowtli, on the contrary, is interstitial, and depends upon a true in- uus-susception. Striking examples of the latter are seen in some lorbid cases especially ; in empyema, spina-ventosa, See. 601. The growth being terminated, the bones remain the seat Ff a habitual support or nutrition. Deposition and absorption go :ii very slowly and in an insensible manner in them in the state ff health, and especially in old age. But in certain cases of dis- aase, very decided changes take place in the properties of the nones, which clearly show that changes not less great are operated ui their composition- 602. The facts relative to the growth and habitual nutrition of hhe bones, are especially proved by the effects of madder upon hem. Mizauld first,* and Belchier f a long time after, were the first rHio observed that when madder (Rubia tinctovumJ, is given to mimals mixed with their food, their bones become red. Duha- inel, Boehmer,£ Detlef,§ J. Hunter,|| and several others have made curious experiments on the same subject. Rutherford*[[ has ^plained the effect of madder on the bones alone, and to the ex- Musion of all the other parts of the body, by a chemical affinity of hhe colouring matter of madder for the earthy substance of the icones. Duhamel found in his experiments, that the bones of young mimals are coloured much sooner than those of old animals ; that hhe progress of their tincture and ossification is so much the more apid the more vigorously their growth goes on; that when the madder is discontinued, the bones become white again, and that lihe return to their original colour is effected by the superposition ff white layers upon the red. This last fact is also fully demon- ttrated by Hunter's experiments. Duhamel, however, imagined9 tiotwithstanding these decisive experiments, that the bones enlarge u thickness by extension, * Ant. Misa'.dus. Ccntur. Memorabilittm seu Arcanorum omnis generis, 1572. f Piiilos. Trans, vol. xxxix. 173G. ; + Radicis Ruhipe Thutorum njfectus in Corp. Anim. Lips. 1751 Ejusdem protu, •n, qua call'im Ossium a Rubice tinctorum radicis pastu Infectorum describit. Ibid, 1752. § Ossiim colli Gcncratio ct Natttra pcrfracla in AnimaUbiis rulice radice pasiit, Osca foemonstrala. Goet. 1753. II || Exper. and Observ. on the Growth of Bones, from the papers of the late Mr. Hunter, by Ev. Home, in Transac. cf a Society for Improvement, &c. vol. ii. Lon- don, 1800. Disput. Med. Iiuuig. De Denlium Formatione ct Slrudma, &c. Auct. K. IMfe, Edinb. 1708. 7