xxu LIFE OF BECLARD. merit and his indefatigable labours. He has sometimes been taxed with ambition, but his noble emulation has been ill interpreted ; he was desirous of increasing his fortune only that he might scatter its benefits over a nu- merous family, of which he was the glorious stay. Was the man ambitious, who, neglecting to enter upon an ex- tensive practice, which his great reputation would have ensured to him, devoted two-thirds of the day to public instruction ? Moderate and simple in his tastes, he was contented with living quietly in the bosom of a family which was adorned by various kinds of excellencies. Beclard was naturally melancholy and grave. His health, exhausted by long labours, required, on his part, the strictest attention. From having his mind always oc- cupied with abstract ideas, he seemed at first cold, and his conversation was very laconic; but when diverted from his meditations, he then displayed in a mind adorn- ed by the reading of philosophy and history, all the charms that a man of intellect is capable of infusing in- to his conversation by the variety and extent of his ac- quirements. His cheerfulness appeared only in flashes, and an irresistible attraction soon caused him to with- draw within the circle of his habitual meditations. For some time he had been greatly addicted to the reading of works on philosophy and political economy ; he had also engaged deeply in the study of languages ; so that he could display in society accomplishments of a differ- ent nature from those which obtained admiration for him in the medical world. Beclard was beneficent without ostentation. Numer- ous students received benefits of all kinds from him, and he often left them in ignorance of the source from which the services which he rendered to them proceeded. He more than once, by the disinterested transference of his medical opinions, supported or created the reputation of young students, who afterwards did honour to their il- lustrious master. He co-operated with zeal in their la-