l230 OF THIS LIGAMENTOUS TISSUE IN GENEUAL. less distinct fibrous capsules. There sometimes occur fibrous la- minae or bridles in the serous membranes, and especially in the pleura. The isolated fibrous or ligamentous bodies -were seen at a very early period, but were confounded with schirrhus. M. Cham- bon has described them under the name of scleromes. Walter and Baillie were acquainted with them. Bichat, and after him M. Roux, have described them ; but it is to Baylc and M. Laennec that we are indebted for the full knowledge of them. They have the globular form, their surface is uneven, and as it were lobulated. The largest anfractuosities contain vessels and infiltrated cellular tissue. When cut up, they are seen to be formed of lobules and convoluted bands, connected by cellular tissue, and of fibrous pro- longations. They possess few vessels in their interior. They are at first small and soft like the fibrine of the blood. They gradual- ly increase in size, and change in their texture. They rarely be- come cartilaginous, but frequently osseous. Stony ossification de- velopes itself in them in an irregular manner, and resembles a mul- berry calculus in their substance. They often form in the sub- stance of and near the surfaces of the uterus; sometimes in the ovary, and in the accidental cellular tissue of the serous mem- branes, and are then formed of layers like a bulbous root, in the cellular tissue, and it has been said in the bones also. They have been seen in the fingers and eye-lids, and under the mucous membrane of the nose. Funguses of the dura mater are sometimes bodies of this kind. They have even been seen once in the brain. Irregular fibrous productions occur in the cicatrices of the liver, bones, and skin, in the scrotum, and around fistulas. 509. There is a production which comes very near the ligamen- tous tissue : it is that of a white compact tissue, not fibrous, nor laminar, nor cellular, semitransparent, chatoyant, feeble, and te- nacious. Some wasted organs seem to be transformed into this tissue. The cicatrices of the skin, that of the cellular tissue after the cure of chronic phlegmons, and after that of old fistuke, and some white granulations of the serous membranes, resembling Pac- chioni's glands, are of this kind. There should also be referred to it, the sclerosis whicli is observ- ed in the cellular tissue and skin in elephantiasis of the limbs, scrotum, and vulva, and which has also been seen in the subperi- toneal cellular tissue, in a case of cancer. It is to this production also that most of the polypi of the ute- rus, and especially of the vagina, and certain tumours projecting under the skin which they raise up, should be referred, these polypi and tumours having a white, compact, feeble, and tenaci- ous tissue, differing from the fibrous tissue, but approaching more to it than to any other. These varieties of the accidental white tissue resemble morbid productions in their tendency to extend and sprout again. 510. The inflammation of the ligamentous tissue is little known, but is not of very rare occurrence.