OF THE NERVES IN' GENERAL. 4 88% mann, Cruickshank, Haigliton, Meyer, &c. Most of these expe- rimenters have resolved affirmatively the questions that relate to the reproduction of the nervous substance. Arnernann alone, pro- ceeding like the others upon the results of a series of experiments, has adopted a contrary opinion. Assisted by one of my pupils,* I have made a great number of experiments for the purpose of solving this question. There re- sult from our observations : 1st, That the division of a nerve, pro- duced by a ligature, is always followed by an exact union of the two ends of the nerve, and the prompt re-establishment of its functions. 2dly, That incomplete section or pricking, to which fatal results have been attributed in man, do not produce accidents in animals, and that reunion and re-establishment of the functions very speedi- ly take place. 3dly, That the complete section of a nerve in a part possessed of little mobility, as for example along one of the two bones of the fore-arm of the dog, in the neck, in the same animal, along one of the bones of the fore-arm in man, &c. is commonly pretty speedily followed by an exact reunion, and the complete re-establishment of the functions. 4thly, That in parts which possess great mobility, as in the vi- cinity of a joint, when a nerve is divided, there takes place, be- sides the original separation which constantly follows, an acci- dental separation which varies in extent according to the motions of the part. In this case the union is long in taking place, and if it ensues at all is imperfect. The re-establishment of the func- tions is also imperfect, or does not take place at all. It is to this that we must refer the results of some of Meyer's experiments, and the permanent paralysis which is said to result from the section of the radial nerve at the lower part of the arm. 5thly, That when there is considerable loss of substance of a nerve, whether by excision, or in a contused wound with destruc- tion, there remains a wide separation between the two ends of the nerve, and the functions are never restored, whatever may be the nerve that has been affected ; which is sufficient to prove that the anastomoses go for nothing, when the re-establishment of the functions takes place. It may therefore be concluded from all that has been stated above, that the nerves unite after being cut across ; and that when union does not take place, this depends solely upon the great separation of the extremities, caused by the motions of the part, or by a loss of substance. 788. When a nerve has been divided, an exudation of organiz- able matter takes place in the first days, around the extremities, at their surface, and in the interval between them. The surrounding cellular tissue is penetrated in the same manner, and has lost its ♦ h. J. Dcscot. Dissertation inatig. siir les affections locale des fterf. Paris, 1889.