OF STONY CONCRETIONS. 371 The calculi of the pelvis and calyces of the kidney, adopt the form of these cavities, when they grow there, and become branched like coral. Calculi of the bladder are the most common. Sometimes, and this is the ordinary case, there is only one in the bladder; some- times there are several, and they have been found in all numbers, up to more than a hundred. Their volume and weight vary from the size of a grain of wheat, to that of the head of a full-grown foetus, and as much as six pounds in weight. Their form is round, ovoidal, tetrahedral, cuneiform, cubical, &c. Their surface is smooth, rough, or mamillated. They vary greatly in colour and consistence. They have always a nucleus, formed either of a particle of gravel that has descended from the pelvis of the kidney, or by a clot of blood, a flake of mucus, or a foreign body. They are sometimes homogeneous, pretty frequently formed of superimposed layers, similar to each other or different, at other times mixed or heterogeneous, and without layers. Calculi of the bladder are composed of the following substances ; 1st, Uric acid; 2d, cystic oxide; 3d, phosphate of lime; 4th, urate of ammonia; 5th, aramoniaco-magnesiano phosphate ; 6th, oxalate of lime ; 'Jth, silica ; 8th, carbonate of lime ; 9th, xan- thic oxide; 10th, fibrinous matter; 11th, mucus; and 12th, phosphate of iron, magnesia, carbonate of iron and urate of soda. These substances occur in calculi, either isolated, or combined by two, three, four or five. The most common of all is the uric acid calculus; then the fusible calculus, composed of ammoniaco-mag- nesian and calcareous phosphates ; then the mural calculus, com- posed of oxalate of lime; then the calculus formed of distinct layers of uric acid and oxalate of lime, Sec. Silica and cystic oxide, and still more the xanthic oxide and fibrine, are the rarest substances in urinary calculi. 828. Pisiform calculous concretions are said to have sometimes been found in the vesicuke seminales and the spermatic ducts. Small concretions of a similar nature also sometimes occur in the uterine tubes. As to the concretions of the uterus, they are most commonly ossified fibrous bodies. However, concretions of phos- phate of lime having a foreign body for their nucleus, have been found in that organ. Calculous concretions are said to have been found in the excre- tory ducts of the mamma. THIRD SECTION. OF ACCIDENTAL TISSUES. 829- Accidental tissues* arc new organs developed in the liv- ing body. • Laennec. Court, oral de Medicine, an College dc France. 1S2?-1623.