121- OF THE TEGUMENTARY MEMBRANES IN GENERAL. islong removed from the action of the atmosphere, as has been ob- served in contractions in which the leg lias been strongly bent and applied against the thigh, and as is often seen in the folds of the skin in very fat children, the epidermis softens and disappears, and the skin at length secretes mucus. On the other hand, in prolap- sus of the uterus the mucous membrane of the vagina, and in na- tural or accidental prolapsus of the anus, that of the intestine, are seen to become thicker, to harden and to assume the appearance of skin. Lastly, in the state of health, the skin is seen in many parts to change, but gradually and in an insensible manner, into mu- cous membrane. This is what takes place in the lips of the vulva, in the prepuce, the anus, the nipple, and the nostrils. It is only in the palpebree and lips that the line of demarcation appears some- what distinct. There is therefore no real interruption, but on the contrary a real identity and continuity, between the two principal parts of the tegumentary membrane. 244. The different parts of these two principal portions of the tegument also present considerable differences. Those which are observed to exist between the skin of the back and that of the eye- lids, between the skin of the head and that of the pulp of the lin- gers, for example, arc pretty remarkable, but they are neither ab- solute nor decided. This is also the case with respect to the mu- cous membrane, and the interruption which have been supposed to he observed in it are only apparent interruptions, as will presently be seen (Section II.) The differences which are observed between the different parts of the mucous membrane, although more dis- tinct than those which occur in the skin, are yet not real. In ge- neral, the change of appearance and texture is gradual, as is seen in the excretory ducts, where the membrane becomes progressively thinner, and so to speak, undergoes a degraded action, but in an insensible manner. If the membrane of the frontal sinuses and that of the stomach be compared together, there will certainly be found very great differences between them, as well as between those of the tongue and uterus; but these differences are in some mea- sure connected by intermediate gradations. We only observe somewhat decided differences in parts very near each other, but whose functions are very different, as between the oesophagus and stomach, or between the vagina and uterus; but even here, as everywhere else, we have only varieties which very easily reduce themselves to one and the same type of organic texture. 245. The teguments have a free surface and an adherent sur- face. The free surface is turned outwards for the skin, and in- wards for the mucous membrane. The reverse is the case with the other surface, which corresponds to the mass of the body, and ge- nerally to the cellular tissue. This tissue (139) there forms a more or less dense and more or less thick layer. In other places the te- guments are applied upon ligamentous tissue or clastic fibrous tis- sue ; and in a pretty large portion of their extent they arc fur- nished with or applied upon muscular fibres.