178 OF TUB CAPILLARY VESSELS. rise to the opinion that the whole solid substance of the body is vas- cular. Ruysch himself, however, discovered that in the body there were parts more, and others less vascular, and others again entirely destitute of vessels. Albinus, in examining injected parts, recent and dried successively, observed, that after the most successful in- jection, there always remains more or less substance not injected, according to the nature of the parts; he thus combated an erro- neous opinion which had arisen especially from the examination of dried or macerated parts, in which all the portions that had not been injected had disappeared or were destroyed. Microscopical examination, and various experiments, equally show in the living body, that there are parts more vascular than others. Thus, if the mesentery or swimming membranes of the feet of the living frog be examined with the microscope, it is seen that the smallest capillary vessels, those of one globule of the blood, are separated by considerable intervals, while in the mucous mem- brane of the lungs of the same animal, a puncture cannot be made with a needle of the smallest size without transfixing several. In like manner, there could not be found, at the free surface of the dermis of a man in the living state, a point in which a needle would not open several vessels, while in the ligamentous parts, the ner- vous substance, the cellular tissue, &c. divisions of a certain ex- tent may be made without the escape of a single drop of blood. If all the solid parts were vascular, and only vascular, there would be no differences between them ; all the organs would be homogeneous, and there would be but a single organ; whereas, such a simplicity of organization occurs only in the animals that are destitute of vessels. 383. The sum of the capillary blood vessels, and their propor- tion to the solid and uninjectable substance, are not less interesting to be considered than their disposition in the different parts of the body. The cellular tissue is not capable of being injected. The epidermis, horny parts, hairs, and teeth, are not injectable at all. The adipose lobules are surrounded with extremely delicate vas- cular net-works. The cartilages undergo no change from injection. The serous and synovial membranes are reddened a little by in- jection, but the adipose masses and fringes are surrounded by very beautiful vascular net-works. The tegumentary membranes are the most vascular parts. The injection sometimes transudes beyond the dermis into the corpus mucosum. The capillary vessels of the skin, which are at first of the first and second magnitude, acquire the greatest degree of te- nuity on penetrating into the papillae. The fresh skin is much more coloured at its external surface. It appears equally coloured throughout, when the uninjectable parts which the vessels conceal- ed have disappeared in consequence of desiccation. The cutanc-