OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. SI easy to separate the intestine from, its peritoneal coat. Inflam- mation of the cellular tissue may terminate in an insensible manner, and then it gradually resumes all its properties. This is what takes place in the termination which is said to be by resolution. In other cases, the cellular tissue secretes a peculiar fluid, which bears the name of pus, and which will be elsewhere described; and this constitutes the termination by suppuration. This fluid commonly collects in a determinate point, which extends progressively to the circumference, so long as the secretion conti- nues. This secretion belongs to the perspiratory kind; the pus is furnished directly by the blood, and even presents some resem- blance to that fluid in its composition. However quick the pro- gress of the disease may be, the walls of the abscess are lined by a membrane. This membrane is doubled, at the exterior, by a more or less thick layer of compact cellular tissue. This layer is less decided, and the membrane is nearly distinctly isolated, when the disease lasts for a certain time, the cellular tissue having re- sumed its properties around it. Abscesses are the seat of conti- nual secretion and absorption, of which a proof is furnished by the entire absorption of the pus which they contain, and the effects which the presence of that fluid sometimes produces in the econo- my. The pus formed in the interior of abscesses generally ends with arriving at the external surface. The abscess empties itself, the walls contract, remain for some time indurated, and at length resume the characters of the cellular tissue. When the secretion and flowing of pus continue, the canal by which the abscess com- municates externally, and which bears the name of sinus or fistula, becomes invested with a distinct membrane, presenting the charac- ters of the mucous membranes, and whose history belongs to that of these membranes. After certain gangrenous inflammations, the cellular tissue becomes so contracted from the loss of substance which it has undergone, that the skin, muscles and aponeuroses are confounded together ; but in this case, if the individual is young and robust, the cellular tissue may be reproduced and resume all its properties. Inflammation of the cellular tissue sometimes con- tinues indefinitely, so that its substance remains hard and imper- meable, which constitutes induration. This state exists in the cal- losities of ulcers and fistulse, which are evidently the result of a chronic inflammation of the cellular tissue. The Barbadoes dis- ease, one of the varieties of elephantiasis, in like manner, presents the characters of induration. New born infants are subject to an induration of the cellular tissue, in which the inflammatory character does not present itself. This induration is observed beneath the skin, and sometimes in the intervals of the muscles. It is only, as M. Breschet's observa- tions have apprised us, a secondary phenomenon of the persistence of the interauricular foramen of the heart, and of the defect or im- perfection of respiration.