OF THE GLANDS. only exert an influence upon the quantity of blood which arrive.-, in the gland, and upon the rapidity of its course. However, a part of the blood being carried back by the veins, and another fluid by the lymphatic vessels, the glands pour forth by their excretory ducts humours differing so widely from each other as the saliva, the tears, the bile, the urine, the spermatic fluid and the milk. What then are the nature and cause of the conversion of the blood into secreted humour? It has been thought that the change and its cause are purely mechanical, and depend upon the size and form of the openings through which the humours issue from the vessels. It has been supposed with much greater probabi- lity that the effect in question is produced by a chemical change, that is to say, another elementary composition. But this change takes place only in organized bodies, and in certain of their organs. The difference therefore depends upon modifications of their sub- stance, just as we see different vegetables planted in the same soil and immersed in the same atmosphere, produce, some gum, others an acid, others resin, &c. Glandular secretion, like the other se- cretions, is therefore a function of the organized and living sub- stance. The vessels carry to it the materials contained in the blood, the production is even probably disposed or prepared by the disposition of the vessels and the mode of circulation which results from it; but it is in the tissue which forms the roots of the excre- tory ducts that we are to look for its essential and immediate in- strument. Secretion in general, and glandular secretion in parti- cular, are evidently subjected to the nervous influence. The ef- fects of the passions upon the secretions in general, those of dis- eases, of hysteria, hypochondria, &c. are well known, and experi- ments made by Mr. Brodie have confirmed the results obtained by direct observation on this subject. Ligature of the veins of a gland greatly increases the product of its secretion. 489. The glands begin to form by their excretory duct. In the embryo, the duct is free and floating, as in insects. The glands are afterwards lobate, for example the kidneys, as they are in the arachnides and Crustacea. They are in general very large in the foetus and child. They diminish proportionally as the organs of the animal functions are developed. Some of them shift their place towards the period of birth ; the testicles and ovaries. These glands and the mamma? become greatly enlarged at the period of puberty, and shrivel in old age. 490. The glands present numerous individual varieties and malformations. Some of them are sometimes entirely wanting. Those of generation are the most subject to this circumstance. One of the paired glands may be wanting, or may be smaller than the other. Some of them occasionally remain divided into lobes or of very large size as in the fcetus. Others arc sometimes united, as the two kidneys, into one. Others may remain in their original 3