250 OF THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. the car, the cartilage of that part has been seen to become bony. In the case of goitre, and even without this cause of pressure, the cartilaginous wings of the trachea are sometimes found compress- ed from one side to the other, and their middle part bent at an angle. The same change of form is also observed in the bronchi. CHAPTER VIII. OF THE OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 565. The osseous system*, or the skeleton, SxeXsriv, results from the union of the bones, which are the hardest and driest parts of the body. 566. It is of all the systems that which shows itself last in the animal series ; it appears along with the nervous centre (the spinal marrow and brain) to which it serves as an envelope. 567- The same sense has not always been attached to the words bone and skeleton. In the writings of Hippocrates and Aristotle is found the source of the two principal ideas attached to these words, and which are still a subject of controversy among zooto- mists. The author of the Treatise on the Nature of the Bones attri- butes to them the uses of determining the form, the straightness, and the direction of the body. This idea has prevailed, and it is still generally admitted, that the principal functions of the osseous system are to determine the form of the body, and to facilitate its motions. Agreeably to this definition, the hard parts of the other articulated animals, and especially those of the insecta and Crusta- cea, ought to have been assimilated to the bones, for it is in the latter that voluntary motion and the preservation of the form of the body are carried to the highest pitch. Willis, in speaking of the crab, uses the following words :—Quo ad membra et partes mo- trices, non ossa teguntur carnibus, sed carnes ossibus. Aristotle, however, who already considered the spine as the ori- gin, or centre, from which the bones are derived, had given the first intimation respecting the distinction which has in these latter times been made between the bones and the other hard parts of " The best works on Osteology are the following:—A. Monro, Anatomy of the Bones and Nerves—Edin. 1726, 8vo.—W. Cheselden, Osteograph'w, &c. London 1733- fol. C S. Albinus, De Ossibus corp. hum. Lugd. Bat. 1726, 8vo.—Id. Be Scclctn huvu ibid. 1762. 4to Id. Tab. Scelet. et MuscuL ibid. 1747. fol. max Id Tab. Ostium, ibid. 1753. fol. max.—Boehmer. Instituliones Osteologicce. Halls Magd. 1751 Tarin. Osteographie. Paris, 1753. Bertin. Traite d'Osteologie. Paris 1754. Ed. Sandifort. Deseriptio Ossium Hominis. Lugd. Bat. 1785 Loschge. Die Kftoqhfn, Slc. Abbildungcn wid Kurxen Bcschr. Erlang. 1804, fol. Blumenbach. Geschk/itc und Bcschrcibung tier Knochcn. Gotting. 1807.