t! Kb to OF THE SKIN IN GENERAL. 151 tcretion. The perspiration is sometimes insensible and in the state ( of vapour, and sometimes fluid and perceptible. In the latter icase it is called sweat. This secretion goes on without intermis- sion, and is probably essentially the same in both cases; but in tthe first it is imperceptible on account of its vaporization. The ssecretion takes place in the skin, but by what vessels it is perform- ed we are ignorant, and the passages by which it makes its way : through the corpus mucosum and epidermis are entirely unknown. eitffftil | lit may, however, be admitted with some probability, that the per- f3;^ of ; spiratory excretion is performed in the bottom of the microscopic , depressions of the epidermis, in which place it is the least dry. ' The quantity of this matter secreted is very great, but difficult to 1 be estimated. Sanctorius, whose experiments are so celebrated, ^a'atd I found that he lost five-eighths of the general mass of his food by the pulmonary and cutaneous perspiration. Of those who have 'palate repeated his experiments, Lavoisier and Seguin have made tiie fol- diffeitm f 1 lowing distinction. They found that the cutaneous perspiration is :to the pulmonary perspiration, on an average, as eleven to seven. Cruickshank attempted to determine its nature, and found that it x;\\cS,t possesses all the properties of water containing carbonic acid and id as the ! ; an animal matter on which its smell depends. When the perspired matter collects under the form of sweat, it • . makes its appearance at the surface of the skin in drops, on which ,'.,.![ Leuwlienhoeck lias made some interesting observations. Human sweat in the healthy state is always acid, possesses a saline taste, K _ and emits an odour. It is formed, according to M. Thcnard, of ., much water, a small quantity of acetic acid, hydrochlorate of soda, . . . and perhaps potash, very little earthy phosphate, an atom of oxide of iron, and an inappreciable quantity of animal matter. Berze- lius considers it as water holding in solution hydrochlorates of po- tash and soda, lactic acid, lactate of soda, and a little animal mat- ter. The cutaneous perspiration, whether sensible or insensible, is to be considered as one of the most important secretions of the or- ganic structure. Moreover, it is a powerful means of refrigeration and of resistance against a too elevated external temperature. This function presents numerous varieties, depending upon age, sex, individuals, external circumstances, the state of the other functions, the action of substances taken within the body or appli- ed to its surface, diseases, &c. It also exercises a powerful influ- ence upon the other functions. 314. It has been admitted that gaseous absorptions and secre- tions are performed by the skin, similar to those of the lungs, and constituting a kind of cutaneous respiration. Thus Spallanzani has seen the skin absorb oxygen in the mollusca, Edwards in rep- tiles, and Irvine in man himself. But objections and experiments may be opposed to these assertions. We may even oppose the experiments of Priestley to those of Cruickshank, Dr. Mackenzie randier, 'cts and abstwe- irtspin- rellisof 'or ffl and Mr. Ellis, who seem favourable to a cutaneous excretion of