INTRODUCTION. 60 120. The derangements of the organization may also consist in an alteration of the texture and composition of the organs. Such are the effects produced hy irritation, inflammation, and other less known derangements of the secretions and of nutrition. Adhesion in general, and the differences which it presents in the various se- parated organs; pus and the other fluid extracts of inflammation ; the transformations of a tissue into another resembling the healthy tissues ; the conversion of an organ into a substance which bears no resemblance to any thing in the regular organization ; the soft or hard concretions which form in the ducts and reservoirs of the follicles and glands, and which depend upon an alteration of the secreted fluid, and of the secreting organ, are so many examples of this important class of vices, whose study is not of dubious utility, as that of the vices of conformation might seem to be. To these two classes must be added that of the numerous intes- tinal worms and parasitic animals, by which man is infested. OF DEATH, AND OF THE BODY AFTER THE EXTINCTION OF LIFE. 121. Death is the total and final cessation of the functions of life, followed presently after by the dissolution of the body. It is the necessary and inevitable result of the successive changes of the organism. It is seldom, however, that it forms the last term of life, protracted to extreme old age, being more commonly induced by accidental causes. Life consisting essentially in the reciprocal action of the circula- tion of the blood and innervation, death always results from the cessation of this reciprocal action. Death through old age ap- pears to result from the simultaneous weakening of these two func- tions and the simultaneous alteration of their organs ; and acci- dental or morbid death from the original alteration of one of the two organs of its function. It is always in fact through the inter- ruption of the nervous action upon the organs of circulation, or through the cessation of the action of the blood upon the nervous centre, that death is determined by accidents and diseases. But the blood may cease to act upon the nervous system so as to sup- port life ; whether because the heart no longer propels it, and the vessels cease to conduct it; or because it is not cleared of noxious principles by the secretions, and especially by the urinary depura- tion ; or because digestion and intestinal absorption do not supply it with nutritive materials ; or, lastly, because deleterious sub- stances are introduced from without into its mass. this, but now that Dr. Beclard has, unhappily for science, paid the debt of nature, the history of his dispute with M. St. Hillaire, in which, moreover, he was entirely wrong, could scarcely interest tlic inedicnl student. K. " See Bichat. Rechcrclies, &c—C. Hfmly. Commentatio mortis Listoriam, causas et signa sistens. Gottingen, 1794'.