Hv, • Nik 3»> 4e course, and tie o vary greatly. The I. and Teins is rcrr s/i^ftt in ilood is in them trsnstbrm- - the excretory ducts, ro/nufe, invisible, andpro- jr in fAe niMflfr of veins,' a/, sublingual and mam- ,u all the other?- Ttet ach g\and, have a course • fed OF THE GLANDS. 323 487. Little is known respecting the intimate texture of the glands. Malpighi advanced the opinion that each of the glandu- lar "rains, the acini, ought to be considered as a follicle, and each (gland as a conglomeration of follicles opening into a common ex- cretory duct. This opinion was received and admitted without ^contradiction until the time of Ruysch, and was even then defend- ced against that anatomist by Boerhaave. According to Ruysch, oDn the contrary, what were called glandular grains are merely in- ;;crlacings of minute vessels, in which the arteries are continued iinto excretory ducts. In each of these opinions there is something true which ought too be admitted, and something false to be rejected. It is true, as Malpighi says, that a gland consists, like a simple or compound ('collide, of a canal closed at the extremity. It is also true, as rRuysch says, that each glandular grain, and the entire gland, con- sists of a mixture and interlacing of minute vessels with the organs rof the excretory duct. But it is incorrect to say, as he has said, tbhat the excretory ducts are the continuation of the arteries, as it would be incorrect to say, with Malpighi, that the roots of the ex- cretory ducts commence by bulgings or follicles. Perhaps Mal- jipighrs hypothesis would have more probability if applied to the Ligranulated glands, as the salivary and lachrymal glands and the i ppancreas, which have in fact so great a resemblance to compound Itffollicles : and that of Ruysch, if applied only to the liver, kidneys, aind testicles, whose texture is evidently so vascular and channelled, I ailthough we cannot affirm that there are true enlarged follicles in itkhe former, and in the latter direct communications between the ar- teries and excretory ducts. In support of this conjecture there might also be adduced the icease with which, in these latter glands, injections pass from the ves- sels into excretory ducts, and vice versa, and the difficulty with which the same results are obtained in the lobulated and granulat- jced glands. However this may be, the texture of the glands appears very ccertainly to result from the intimate association of ramified excre- Itory ducts, closed at their origin, with blood-vessels, lymphatics, naand nerves, situated in their intervals, dividing and terminating in ilt'their substance, the whole connected by cellular tissue and envel- oped by membranes. 488. The function of the glands consists of a mode of secretion which is called glandular. All secretion in general consists in the 1 formation of a particular humour, the materials for which are fur- bished by the blood. Glandular secretion differs from the others ((the follicular and perspiratory secretions) only in the greater com- pplexity of its organ. With only a single exception, the same blood, the arterial blood inly, is carried into all the glands. The number, volume, direc- tion, and mode of distribution of the vessels, and the degree of mi- nuteness at which they arrive by their successive divisions, can