OF ORGANIZED BODIES. s ther spontaneously, or through external causes, in a word, else- where than in a body already organized and living. Life, in fact, neither consists solely in a collocation of molecules previously se- parated, as that which chemical attraction might produce, nor solely in an expulsion of elements previously combined, as that which the repulsive action of caloric might produce ; but in a mo- tion of temporary formation, in which elements remain united, which would separate did life cease, and in which elements se- parate without their being removed from each other by the action of caloric. Now, this vital action exists only in organized bodies. This intimate and reciprocal connexion of organization and life, has caused them to be in their turn considered each as the cause or the effect of the other. This is assuredly erroneous, and the idea of organization and life is a complex idea, which can no more be divided, unless in an abstract sense, than these two things themselves can be separated from each other. Life is organization in action, or, according to Stahfs expression, it is organism. The object of this work, however, being the examination of organization in a state of rest, life will be considered in it only in a very brief manner.* 8. Organized bodies having a heterogeneous structure, their history is composed of those of their various parts. This study is what forms the proper object of anatomy. In like manner, the physics of these bodies comprehends not only mechanical or che- mical phenomena, but also those which belong peculiarly to them, and which are foreign to inorganic bodies, viz. nutrition and gene- ration, in other words, organic or vital action. This department of physics assumes the name of physiology. Anatomyf may therefore be defined the knowledge of organized bodies, or the science of organization. The etymological signifi- cation of this word i6 different, as it means simply dissection; but it has been consecrated by use, and is preferred to the words mor- phology* and organology,ยง which some have proposed to be sub- stituted for it. In fact, anatomy is purely a science of observation, and dissection is the principal means by which the parts of orga- nized bodies are exposed for the purpose of observing them. Physiology]] is the knowledge of the phenomena of organized bodies, or the science of life. It is also called Zoonomy*f[ and Biology.** Physiology, like anatomy, is a science of observation ; but it considers the phenomena of living organized bodies. Anatomy and physiology are very intimately connected. Ob- servation having shown that organization, and the phenomena of life, are in constant and mutual relation ; the objects of the one may be inferred from those of the other. " Seo Richerand's Element de Physiologic. t From AmTiftva, to dissect. \ A discourse on form. ยง A discourse on organs. || From <tftmr, nature, and Atym, a discourse. ยง The law of life. A discourso on life.