OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. I Bri )o MMWiik ntohm tth tA arias* • >«u*» nort*n .- .'•? f ami the other anatomists of the Italian school, especially Eustachi, improved the particular knowledge of the muscles, and gave figures of them. The intimate texture of the muscles, their contractile action, the nervous influence upon this action, and the motions which result from it, have been much studied in the course of the two last centuries, and are still the subject of important investiga- tions. * 651. In the most simple animals, the muscular fibre docs not exist distinctly. The motions are produced in them by the cellu- lar tissue. In the first of the series in which the muscular fibre appears, it only moves the tegumentary membranes to which it is attached, or of which it even forms part. In all those which have a heart, this fibre is its principal element. Lastly, in the verte- brate animals, a small number of muscles only are attached to the mucous membrane, the skin, the organs of sense, and the parts connected with them; whereas, on the contrary, a great mass is at- tached to the skeleton for moving it. 652. There are two classes of muscles in man. Some of them, which are internal, membraniform, and hollow, and belong to the mucous membrane and the heart, contract involuntarily, and are subservient to the functions of nutrition and generation, in a word, to the vegetative functions. Others, which are external, more or less thick and full, and belong to the skin, the organs of sense, the skeleton, and the larynx, contract voluntarily, and are subservient to the animal functions. Both present common characters, which it is necessary first to consider in a general manner. FIRST SECTION. OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. 653. The muscular system forms of itself alone a great part of the weight, and the greater part of the volume of the body. 654. Whatever be the diversity of their form and situation, the muscles, for the greater part, divide into bundles, and all are formed of primary or simple fibres, which are collected together into fasciculi. The authors who have engaged in this point of the investigation of minute anatomy, have exposed it in a manner, in general, not very intelligible. Some of them merely say, that the flesh is com- posed of fibres ; others, of fleshy strife ; others, of fibres and fibrils ; others, of fibres themselves composed of villi. Muys divides the muscular flesh into fibres, fibrillae, and filaments. He subdivides the fibres into three orders : larger, middle sized, and small, the * MM. Prevost and Dumas are engaged in observations on the intimate texture and on the motion of the muscles. They have had the kindness to communicate to me their first results, which have not yet been published.