216 OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. necklace. They arc more or less approximated according to the parts, without their being more particularly so in the branches than in the twigs. In certain vessels there occur intervals of several inches without valves. The thoracic duct is especially remark- able in this respect. In some points the insertion of a small ves- sel into a larger is only furnished with a simple valve. In some places of the trunks there are observed annular valves which do- not entirely close the canal. The insertion of the trunk into the subclavian veins is furnished with a double valve which effectually opposes the reflux of the blood into their cavity. All these valves, like those of the veins and arteries, are formed by a duplicaturc of the inner membrane. 408. The lymphatic vessels are formed of two membranes, which are very distinct in their principal trunk. The outer membrane, which is cellular and uneven externally, is attached to the surrounding cellular tissue, which forms a sheath for it. More deeply, it is distinctly fibrillar or filamentous. It is even alleged that muscular fibres have been seen in it. The inner membrane is very thin. . Small arterial and venous vessels are traced into the substance of the outer membrane. Some persons even assert that they have seen lymphatic vessels in it. No nerves have been discovered in it. 4G9. The walls of the lymphatic vessels, although very thin and transparent, are dense and very tenacious, much more so than those of the veins in proportion to their different thickness. How- ever, these vessels are extensible, and are even possessed of a high degree of retractility. Their elasticity is manifest: if they are fill- ed and distended in the dead body, the matter which has been in- troduced into them is expelled. , Their irritability or vital contractility * is not less evident, al- though it has been denied by Mascagni and several others. If they be exposed to the air in the living body, they manifestly con- tract. If the thoracic duct or another lymphatic vessel be punc- tured after being tied, the fluid issues from it in jets, like the blood which issues from a vein, while after death it only escapes continuously. It is true that mechanical or chemical irritations do not produce motions similar to those of the muscles, but irritability varies according to the different nature of the organs. Nothing is known with respect to their sensibility, and little re- specting their power of formation. 470. The lymphatic vessels contain the chyle and lymph (79.) ■They conduct these humours from their roots toward their trunks, which is sufficiently proved by the disposition of their valves, which allows the humours to pass in that direction and opposes their passage in the other; by the effects of ligature, under which they swell, while they are emptied above it; and by the valves * Sclirc^er, Dr Ir>i:n}>ilU«1e vnsorum Lymphaticormn. Lips. 1789.