INTRODUCTION. tebratc and invertebrate. Man belongs to tlic first of these di- visions. 31. Although the invertebrate animals differ greatly from man, yet their examination is of much interest to the anatomist and physiologist. In them organization and life are seen in their greatest simplicity, and in a multitude of varieties. They even differ so much from each other, that they possess no common and positive character. From the general consideration of their or- ganization, they are divided into three great sections, which differ from each other as much as they differ from the vertebrate animals. These sections are those of the radiaria, mollusca, and articulata. Besides these three divisions there is also a class of doubtful beings which zoologists describe under the name of infusoria, and to which the botanists lay claim as referable to the Conferva?. 32. These equivocal and microscopic animals have very simple forms, differing from each other, and sometimes changeable. They are homogeneous, transparent and diffluent. They have no cavity, nor any distinct organ; and yet they move in the waters which contain them, imbibe the nutritious matters which float around them, and multiply by splitting spontaneously. 33. The Radiated Animals constitute a particular type, the essential character of which is found in their form, which is that of a centre with the parts disposed around it in radii. Their structure, which is somewhat simple, presents several varieties from the hydra? or tentaculated polypi, the most simple among them, to the asteria?. They all live in water. 34. The Polypi form an extremely numerous class of radiated animals. They are in general elongated, having a single aperture or mouth furnished with radiated appendages. They have an alimentary cavity, digest very quickly, and absorb by imbibition. They produce buds or gemma?, which sometimes remain adherent, forming compound phytoid animals, and sometimes separate. The two surfaces, the external and internal, are similar. The interme- diate substance is homogeneous and resembles gelatine. No par,, ticular organ is distinguishable in them, they having only micro- scopic globules. They are so reproductive that when cut into pieces, each piece becomes an individual. Light, noise, and other external causes, produce impressions upon them followed by mo- tions. Some are fixed to the ground, others free. The most simple of all are those which are naked, as the hydra?, &c, which have a simple alimentary bag, and multiply by external buds. Others which are aggregated, excrete from their outer surface a bony or calcareous substance, to which the name of polyparium is given. In others again, which are compound animals, the com- mon body envelopes a secreted substance, which varies from the consistence of jelly to that of stone. 35. The Acalcpha or sea-nettles have a still more marked cir- cular or radiating form, and have been compared to rosaceous or radiating flowers. Their structure is varied, some being as simple