OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. * Ilnller, Ekmcnta Physiol, lib. xi. Sect. 1. and 3. t. iv. the muscular fibre might be attributed to these two causes. These globules are connected by a medium which is invisible on account of its transparency and want of colour. It is a kind of jelly or mucus. If muscular flesh be macerated in water frequently re- newed, putrefaction more rapidly altering the medium of connex- ion of the globules than the globules themselves, and the renew- ing of the water carrying off the product of putrefaction, the glo- bules are obtained isolated and resembling those of the coloured particles of the blood. The fibres of all the muscles have the same form and size. 658. Wrinkles or flexuosities are often perceived upon the fas- ciculi of the muscles, especially when they are boiled. This ap- pearance, which was noticed by Hooke, Leuwenhoeck, Dehayde, and Haller, and has been represented by Muys, much engaged the attention of Prochaska, who attributed it to the contraction of the cellular tissue, vessels, and nerves, and to their crispation by boiling. These apparent rugae or stria; have also been attributed to several other imaginary causes, and have given rise to the idea that the fibres possess an articulated, tortuous, or spiral disposi- tion. These wrinkles are, or appear to be, nothing else than flex- uosities or undulations. They always exist in the muscles when contracted, whether in the state of life, or after death, or through the action of caloric. This flexuosity is also produced of itself when retraction of a muscle is favoured or produced by cutting its insertions or bringing them towards each other. They disappear entirely when the stiffening which follows death ceases. 659. Physiologists, deceived by inaccurate observations, or led away by hypothetical views, have admitted false or entirely arbi- trary opinions respecting the intimate nature of the muscular fibre.* Thus many physiologists and mechanicians have admitted that the muscular fibre is hollow, and consists of a series of ovoidal vesicles, or rhomboidal cavities, elongated in the state of relaxa- tion, and broadened and globular in the state of contraction of the muscles. Some have considered the muscular fibre as hollow and continuous with the nerves. Many others have regarded it as hollow, vascular, and capable of being injected, whether as formed solely of minute arteries, or as consisting of very delicate vessels, intermediate between the minute arteries and veins. Others have described these internal cavities, whether vesicles or canals, as spongy or cellular. Some have admitted transverse fibres, nervous or of a different nature, whether for retaining the blood in the fibre, or for contracting its dilated canal, and shortening it by this mechanism. Others again have imagined the fibre to exist in the form of a spiral tube around an inextensible filament; while others have supposed it twisted like flax or hempen threads. There may be objected to all these assertions, that the muscular fibre, examined with good optical instruments, appears rather to