2S7 OF THE SKELETON. tthe skeleton, and not merely its dimensions, undergo great changes '.through age.* The proportion of the head to the rest of the trunk and to the llimbs is so much the greater, the younger the subject is, only uvithin the twentieth year. At the second month after conception, iit forms half the height of the body, nearly the fourth at birth, the fifth at the age of three years, and the eighth only when the growth iis completed. The face in like manner is so much the smaller, compared with the skull; the pelvis, compared with the thorax; 1 tthe limbs, compared with the trunk, &c. the younger the subject : iis. Many other differences of the same kind will be pointed out iin the particular anatomy of the bones. 645. The skeleton presents pretty distinct differences in the two ; sexes. *f- In general the skeleton of the female is smaller and more i cdelicate than that of the male; the thorax is shorter, and altogether I ssmaller; it is also more mobile; the pelvis broader; the lumbar i iregion more elongated, &c. The diarthrodial articulations are I imore mobile, the amphiarthroses more flexible, &c. All the re- j jgions of the body, and almost all the bones, present some particular I differences. 646. The human races also present differences in their skeleton, tthe principal of which have reference to the dimensions and form ! tof the skull, and its proportion to the face. J There are also some j (differences in the proportions of the limbs. In the negro race the nupper limbs are longer in proportion to the trunk; the fore-arm i :and leg are longer proportionally to the arm and thigh. 647- Lastly, individual varieties are observed in the skeleton, j Iboth with respect to dimensions, and with reference to proportion, (configuration, want of symmetry, &c. The stature of the body, which is determined by the dimensions IUof the skeleton, is about five feet four inches in the adult man, and I; about five feet in the female;§ but this length, which varies some- ! \what in the different races, and even in still more restricted varieties Uof the human species, presents considerable differences in the indi- jnviduals of the same race or nation. These differences, like those jliof the other species of animals, are confined within certain limits, i Thus, dwarfs are seldom of less than half the mean stature, and ij [giants are very seldom more than a half higher than the ordinary ••stature. What has been said of giants from seventeen to twenty- ! tfive feet high, must be referred to bones of animals mistaken for nlhuman bones. • Boehmer, op. cit—Oheselden, op. cit—Eyson, op. cit Sue, Sur les Propor- \\iiions du Squcktle de V Homme, examine depuis Vage le plus tendre,jmqu'd eclui de Vingt- einq, Soixantc ans ct au-deld; in Mem. Pres. vol. ii.—F. G. Danz, Grundriss dcr Zcr- 1 igleidcrungskunde des Ungcborncn Kindes, Francof, 1792 Senff, op. cit. f See J. F. Ackermann, De Discrimine Scxus Procter Genitalia, Mogunt. 1788 Compare also. Albinus, Tabula Scelcli Hominis, and Soemmering', Tabula Sccleti Fce- rmiuci, Francof. ad Slocnum, 1796. t Blumenbach, Decades Craniorum, i vi.—Soemmering, De Ossibus. § The French measurements are somewhat longer thun the English, which will account for the low average assigned for the adult male and female stature, the Paris rroyal foot being equal to 12.7977 English inches K.