OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. S4>9 membrane. 3d, Lastly, notwithstanding Behrcnds,s negation, nervous ramuscules are seen passing through the outer membrane of the arteries, and terminating in their middle membrane. The nerves of the arteries belong either to the sympathetic nerves, or to the spinal and trigeminal nerves. 779- The nerves have been examined in their structure by vari- ous anatomists. Delia Torre found in them the fibres and globules common to the whole nervous system. Prochaska and Reil have since still more fully described their internal disposition. Accord- ing to their researches, the nerves are composed of cords, and these of filaments or very fine threads, whose tenuity is equal to that of the threads of the silk-worm, and which, in the optic nerve only, are of the size of a coarse hair. These filaments, which arc of the same nature as the medullary fibre, or filaments of the brain and spinal marrow, differ from them only in being more distinct, and more separated from each other, which arises from their being surrounded by a proper membrane. This membrane or envelope, which is called neurilema or neurhymen, which means the mem- brane of the nerves. Galen had employed this expression, but Reil was the first who made precise application of it. The neuri- lema forms a general envelope to the nerves, and furnishes partial envelopes to the nervous cords, as well as to the filaments of which they are composed. It is very tenacious. When it is emptied, it represents an assemblage of small tubes. These tubes unite with each other, or inosculate, at intervals. It is not, therefore, correct to say that the nerves are composed of filaments, which are distinct in their whole length ; for the communication of these fila- ments with each other render them no longer the same. When examined at the upper part and at the lower part of the nerve, the nervous cords are not simply adherent there either, but send fila- ments to each other. There is the same disposition as in the plexus, where there is an intimate communication between all the nerves, by means of the cords and filaments which they send out. What the plexus presents on the large scale is seen in the small scale in each nerve; and the cords themselves are nothing but plexuses of nervous filaments. Towards the origin or central extre- mity of the nerves, the neurilema is continuous with the pia mater, but only in the portion of it which constitutes the general enve- lope of the nerve. The internal sheaths of the nervous filaments become softened, and are insensibly lost, so that the filaments are left bare in the centre of the nerve. The nerves are, in like man- ner seen to lose their neurilema at their termination, wherever they can be traced so far. The neurilematous tubes do not present, internally, a smooth and polished surface, like the internal surface of the vessels. They send off a multitude of prolongations, which traverse the medulla of the nerve and sustain it. The medulla is not free and moveable in the nerve, which is in part owing to its consistence, but also in part to this disposition. There exists cel- lular tissue around the general sheath, and between the partial