OF THE ARTICULATIONS. 629. The means of union are fibrous ligaments, (512.) The muscles which surround the articulations, although they do not en- ter essentially into their composition, contribute powerfully to their solidity. 630. Firmness and mobility are variously combined in the diar- throdial articulations. These articulations possess very diversified motions, as sliding, rotation, angular opposition and circumduction. The sliding mo- tion exists in all the diarthrodial articulations. The other motions, < on the contrary, occur only in a certain number of them. Rota- tion is peculiar to certain articulations. Sometimes it is exercised upon a single pivot, as around the odontoid process of the second vertebra. Sometimes there are two, as in the double articulation of the bones of the fore-arm with each other. Sometimes it is round an ideal axis that a bone turns, as is exemplified in the fe- mur. The motion of opposition, or angular motion, is that in which the bones form more or less open angles with each other, according to the degree of motion. It is distinguished into oppo- sition limited to two motions of flexion and extension, as at the elbow, the knee, &c. ; and into vague opposition, which may take place in four principal directions, and in all the intermediate direc- tions, of which examples are offered by the arm, the thigh, the thumb, &c. Circumduction, which exists in all the articulations possessing vague opposition, is a motion by which the bone which moves describes a cone whose summit corresponds to the central extremity of the bone, and the base to its opposite extremity. The firmness of these articulations, like that of the others, is in the inverse ratio of their mobility. 631. Several kinds of diarthrosis are distinguished, depending upon the configuration of the surfaces, the means of union ; and the motions of these articulations. The close and planiform diarthrosis, articulus adstrictus, the amphiarthrosis of some, the motus obscurus of Columbus, is that in which the surfaces are superficial, the ligaments strong and tight, the motions obscure and confined to sliding, but capable of being performed in several directions. Of this kind are the arti- culations of the articular processes of the vertebrae, and those of the bones of the carpus and tarsus, whether with each other or with the metatarsus and metacarpus. Arthrodia differs from the preceding articulation, in this respect, that the surfaces are less flat, the ligaments less tight, and the mo- tions freer and more numerous. Of this kind is the articulation of the lower jaw with the temporal bone. Enarthrosis consists in the reception of a head into a cavity. In this species the ligament is capsular, and the motions greatly diver- sified. The articulation of the femur with the coxal bone affords an example of it. These three first kinds of diarthrosis are orbicular or vague. Their motions, which are more or less free, may take place in all, or in many directions. The following species, on the contrary, are