SQ3 APPENDIX. 0 bones were said to have been fractured, and the ball came out on the inner side of the same leg. He was sent to Plymouth in August, 181-1, where various incisions were made, chiefly in the line of the tibia, and several portions of bone taken away, to the number of about six- teen. He, however, continued to lose health and strength, so much t hat it was determined to remove the limb below the knee-joint, which was accordingly done towards the end of 1816. On examination of the limb which had been removed, the tibia had evidently been frac- tured ; the bone was much swollen, and very vascular, above and be- low the site of the fracture. No sequestrum or dead portion of bone ex- isted : but several cloacae or large apertures, leading into a fistulous ca- vity in the centre of the tibia. Necrosis from gunshot wounds, when the case is not complicated, presents the same appearances as simple necrosis, arising from a con- stitutional cause. This has been already exemplified by the case of A. C. and T. H. Case XII.—J- B. was wounded at New Orleans, about the 8th Ja- nuary 1815. A grape-shot struck the arm high up, and fractured the bone. Amputation of the arm was performed in February 1817, from which he recovered. On examining the bone of the amputated ex- tremity, it appeared that the operation had been performed close to a fistulous orifice in the bone, leading into a diseased cavity, containing a necrosed portion of bone. The shaft of the bone had not died through- out its whole thickness, but only an internal portion. The external layers of bone had become thick, vascular, and there is a considerable deposition of new bone over the whole surface of the old one. The vascularity of the old bone is judged of by the numerous fora- mina which everywhere penetrate into its substance, and by which the periosteum transmits prolongations into the tissue of the old bone. This membrane is thickened, pulpy, and vascular. On teaiing it from off the bony substance, it is evident that none of the new ossific matter has been formed by it; and the few small osseous points which remain on it, after being detached from the surface of the bone, are found, on ex- amination with a magnifying glass, to be fragments broken off from the new ossific matter, formed originally by the vessels of the old bone. I ought here to point out the many practical conclusions which re- sult from the preceding cases and observations ; but as it is my inten- tion to resume the subject at a future period, I shall notice only the most obvious and readily understood. In necrosis of the os humeri extending to the neck of the bone, and requiring amputation, it will be safest to remove the limb at the joint:* and in necrosis of the femur, it will be proper to saw the bone through in the trochanters. In gunshot wounds, complicated with fracture or injured bones, local antiphlogistic means must be rigorously enforced. The formation of extensive abscesses, and death of a large portion of bone, will thus be avoided; for we have proved that, by these means, bony parts will recover after being struck by a ball, which, under the ordinary treatment of deep incisions, hot fomenta- * See a preparation fiiu'ly illustrative of this in the Museum of Dr. Barclay of i Edinburgh.