OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. 297 ligations on the part of Hallcr, of several physiologists anterior to him, and of a great number of his contemporaries and successors. - The study of muscular action comprehends that; 1st, of the phenomena of that action; 2dly, of its conditions ; 3dly, of its principle or cause ; and, 4<thly, of its effects. 669. The phenomena of muscular action which have been best determined are the following: The muscle in action shortens, swells and hardens ; it is uncertain whether its volume changes ; its colour does not vary ; it presents wrinkles and folds at its surface; its fibres and fasciculi are often in a state of trembling or oscillation, which depends upon their alternate contraction and relaxation; it acquires a very great power and a manifest elasticity. These are the phenomena of contraction; and the most remark- able of these facts is in reality that of the shortening which takes place. When the action ceases, all these phenomena disappear, and the muscle is then relaxed. Are the muscles also susceptible of an active elongation ? Vari- ous facts have been cited in favour of this opinion, of which some prove nothing at all in its favour,* while the others, adduced by Bichat, M. Autenrieth, M. Sprengel and M. Meckel, still leave the question at least undecided. There has also been admitted in the muscles a force of fixed si- tuation,^ or an action in which they are neither contracted nor elongated. The same remark applies to this phenomenon as to the preceding. 670. Contraction or shortening being the best determined fact in muscular action, we must examine it in detail, as well as its ac- companying phenomena. The muscle increasing in thickness at the same time that it shortens, the simultaneousness of these two phenomena has given rise to a question which has much occupied the attention of physi- ologists, and which has not yet been entirely solved: it is, whether the volume of the muscles changes during their contraction. The experiments of Swammerdam, Glisson, Goddart and M. Erman, on the diminution of volume of the muscles during con- traction, do not completely prove that this diminution takes place. The same may be said of the experiments and reasoning of Hamber- ger, Prochaska and Mr. Carlisle, in favour of their augmentation: they also leave the question undecided. It is very probable, that according to the observations and experiments of Sir G. Blane, M. Barzelotti, Mr. Mayo, and MM. Prevost and Dumas, and accord- ing to the opinion of M. Soemmering, M. Sprengel and M. Meckel, there is no change of volume ; the shortening and swelling of the muscles compensating each other. 671- The shortening manifests itself by various effects, the swell- ing is evident to the most simple observation, and the hardening is sensible to the touch. • Sec liarthcz, Novo Elcm. de la Science He Vhommc, T. I. t Biirtliez. Ibidem.