199 OF THE ARTERIES. pelling the blood, is their clastic resilience which contracts and shortens them, and consequently diminishes their capacity, toge- ther with a force of vital contraction which is added to the elasti- city in the middle-sized arteries, and in the smaller exists alone. The velocity of the arterial blood in general diminishes from the trunks towards the last twigs. It moreover presents local varia- tions, which are constant or accidental. The function of the arteries is, therefore, to conduct, as tubes, the blood into all the parts, and as contractile tubes, to impress up- on it a part of the motion with which it is animated. The action of the arteries upon the blood has been by turns exaggerated, and estimated at too low a rate. It is perfectly certain ; 1st, That the vessels appear before the heart, both in the animal series and in the embryo; 2dly, That acephalous fcetal monsters are destitute of heart; 3dly, That in fishes there is no aortic ventricle, and that even in man the vena portse (Sect. III.) is equally destitute of a proper muscular agent of impulsion ; 4thly, That in reptiles, when the heart has been removed, the motion of the blood still continues for a long time. All these facts in reality prove, that the vessels are agents, and that even they are the original agents of the blood's motion. The arteries take part in this agency by their elasticity and irritability. But it is not less certain that in the animals which are furnished with a heart, that organ becomes a powerful agent of the motion of the blood. It is thus that by its action the arterial circulation, al- though continuous, is jerked; and it is thus that the circulation is performed in the sturgeon, although the aorta is inclosed in a bony canal. In like manner, the aorta and its principal branches may be ossified in man, without any great irregularity ensuing in the circulation of the blood. It must be concluded, then, that both these powers, that of the heart and that of the arteries, are subser- vient to the circulation, and that the one may in part supplant the other. But the action of the heart upon the blood goes on dimi- nishing, and that of the vessels augmenting, in proportion as we recede from the centre of the circulation. The vital contraction of the arteries is also one of the causes of their being empty in the dead body. 424. The arterial circulation is accompanied with a motion to which the name of pulse is given. This phenomenon has been by turns attributed to the alternate contraction and dilatation of the arteries ; to the elongation of these vessels and the locomotion re- sulting from it; to the pressure of the finger in feeling it, or to several of these causes together. The number of pulsations de- pends solely upon that of the contractions of the heart. The vo- me or fulness of the pulse depends upon the quantity of blood contained in the arteries ; its duration, upon that of the contrac- tion of the heart; its strength, upon the quantity of blood impelled by the heart, the force with which it is impelled, the quantity con-