or THE BONKS. time interesting phenomena of separation rind osseous produc- tion. When the medullary membrane of a long bone is destroyed in a living animal, by introducing into its canal a foreign body which tears or cauterizes it, the whole limb to which the bone belongs swells, becomes painful, and has its temperature increased. At a later period abscesses form, which open and remain fistulous. There is seen, or felt, through the openings, a moveable bone in the midst of the pus, and contained in another bone which is hol- low. The internal bone which becomes in time more and more loose, sometimes gets engaged by one of its extremities in one of the apertures of the external bone, and is even at length expelled. It is then seen to have the length of the diaphysis of the original bone, and a variable thickness, but which sometimes entirely equals that of the original bone. The new bone, however, being freed of the foreign body, and being connected from the commencement with the extremities of the old bone, which are now become its own extremities, gradually contracts within itself. The suppura- tion diminishes, and at length entirely ceases, when the walls which have approached each other to such a degree as to touch, are ag- glutinated together, and at length become entirely confounded. The new bone, which is at first very soft and flexible, to such a degree as sometimes to be bent by the action of the muscles, when the old bone, engaged by one extremity in one of the fistulous openings, no longer forms a solid support to it, ultimately acquires and preserves a density and hardness superior to those of the ori- ginal bones. 1 The medullary cavities form in the new bone in proportion as its tissue, which is at first uniformly lax, acquires density at the exterior. All these changes take place as if spontaneously in the human species, in circumstances and under the influence of causes which appear to act upon the periosteum to produce inflammation in it,- and probably also upon the medullary membrane, that is to say, upon the internal nutritive apparatus, in such a manner as to alter its texture and functions. The long bones, in which necrosis occurs most frequently, are the following, being arranged nearly in the order of their frequen- cy : the tibia, femur, the humerus, the mandibular bone, the bones of the fore-arm, the clavicle, the fibula, and the bones of the me- tatarsus and metacarpus. Two theories have been proposed on this subject, the authors of which have only erred in making them exclusive, for things some- times take place in the one way and sometimes in the other. Troja, David, Bichat, and many others, have admitted that the expelled part is formed by the entire body of the original bone rendered more or less thin by absorption and by the solvent action of the pus, and that the new bone results from a new formation, of which the external nutritive apparatus, that is to say the perios-