004 OF THE MUSCULAll SYSTEM IN GliNKIlAL. visions of the muscles by twigs running parallel to them, and cross their direction by other transverse twigs which surround them. On arriving at their last state of division, the arteries are continued into the veins, without its being possible to know how they contri- bute to the texture and nutrition of the muscular fibres, It is not from the blood vessels of the muscles that the red co- lour of these organs is derived, for the internal muscles although highly vascular are whitish. Lymphatic vessels are seen distinctly in the intervals of most of the muscles, and in the substance of some of them. The manner in which they originate in them is, however, unknown. Perhaps they are the continuation of the cellular tissue which exists between the fibres. 662. The nerves of the muscles are very large. Next to the skin and the organs of sense, the muscles are the parts most abun- dantly provided with nerves. In general, they are proportionate in number and size to the volume of the muscles. The internal muscles, however, have, in general, fewer nerves than the others, and of the latter, those of the skeleton fewer than those of the la- rynx and organs of sense. They generally accompany the blood vessels, and especially the arteries, and are loosely connected with them by cellular tissue. To see them well, it is necessary to ma- cerate the muscles until putrefaction commences, which, in fact, destroys the muscles more quickly than the nerves. They pene- trate by various points into the muscles, and divide in them in the manner of vessels ; but they soon elude the sight, without our being able to perceive them by any artificial means; so that no- thing can be affirmed with respect to their termination. It is con- jectured, with some probability, that their divisions extend to the primary fibres. It would appear, that before disappearing, they become gradually softer, leaving off their proper envelope, so that their medullary substance is in immediate contact with the muscu- lar fibre. Monro and Smith have thought that the nerves of the muscles are their spiral fibres. According to MM. Prevost and Dumas,* the nerves of the ves- sels are better seen by the following means, than by any other. A piece of cow's muscle, which has been macerated in pure water, is examined in a dark place. On receiving upon the muscle alone a ray of strong light, the colour of the nerve is distinguished, as standing out from that of the muscle, and it may be followed to a great distance, by means of a good lens and a very small scalpel. The ramifications are then seen to terminate by being inserted be- tween the muscular fibres, whose direction they intersect at right angles. To observe this arrangement in the whole mass of a muscle sufficiently thin to be transparent, the sterno-pubic muscle of the frog is placed upon a bit of glass, and is examined by trans- mitted light, by means of a weak lens, and the light of a candle. • Unpublished Memoir.