OF THE ARTlilUli.S. 191 tenet 9»H !cially •* oeliulur tissue, or viscera. Nlcirdationihtthe >rc by do means sua. most commonly derires ipears to depend upoa .i-s without change; at it contmua&y increases canDes, and at length are Mailt to be re- [ tumours, resembling , variety of this acci- ttftf* 'jinth illH'1 e, of ^ u & lymphatics, and of nerves; the whole inclosed in an envelope, which sends prolongations into the interior. They are all situated i in the course of the lymphatic and venous circulation, and appear destined to make the absorbed substances undergo an elaboration, and to prepare the assimilation. They thus seem to be in a kind of antagonism to the true glands or the organs of excretion. The vascular ganglia differ from each other in the quantity and i the species of tissue of which their mass is formed, in the propor- tion of vessels and nerves, and in the mode of communication of tthe vessels. 404. The adenoid ganglia may be distinguished into two kinds, ] 1 st, The lymphatic glands or ganglia, and 2dly, the ganglia of the blood-vessels, which are the thyroid gland, the thymus, the supra- irenal capsules, and the spleen. The former of these will be described along with the lymphatic i vessels (Sect. IV.) The others, which form a less natural group, 1 belong chiefly to particular anatomy. They have, however, some general characters. The ganglia of the blood-vessels* are larger £and much less numerous than the lymphatic ganglia. They are i of a brownish-red colour, globular and granular. They present at the interior distinct cavities, filled with a fluid, but little ramified, and closed on all sides. Excretory ducts have been imagined at different periods to have been discovered for them, but these al- Ueged discoveries have not been confirmed. These ganglia are so iintimately connected with the blood-vessels and lymphatics, and (especially with the thoracic duct, that they have, with much pro- bability, been supposed to have a very great influence upon the {perfecting of the lymph and chyle, and upon the formation of the Iblood. SECTION SECOND. OF THE ARTERIES. 405. The Arteries,! Arterice, are the vessels which carry the 1 blood from the heart to all the parts of the body. 406. Hippocrates and his contemporaries gave the name of veins tto all the vessels and all the canals, excepting the trachea, which tthey named artery. Aristotle is the first who speaks of the aorta, I which he calls the small vein. Praxagoras gives the name of ar- • Boeckler, De functionibus Glunduloc thyroidcie, thymi, alque glandul. tuprarcn, i&c. Argcntor, 1753—Hecker. Ube.r die verrhhtung dcr Kldnsten schlagadcrn und eingcr aus einem gervebe dcr fcinsten gcfas.se bestehenden eingeweide, dcr schild-und trust- druse, der milzes, dcr nebemneren und nachgeburt. Erfurt. 1790. t Bassuel. Nouvel aspect de Vintcrieur des arteres, ef de leur structure par rapport au court du sang. Mcmoircspresent, de Math.etdc Phys. T. i. ann. 1750. D. Bolmas Structure des Artgres, leurs propricks, leurs fonctioni, et leurs alterations organiques' in <ko. Strasbourg, 1822.—Cb. H. Ehrmann—Same title, place, and date. '