lOG OF THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. of the trunk, there are also numerous lymphatics along with the veins, while in the spinal canal and within the skull there are many veins of great size, and few or no lymphatic vessels. Perhaps this last circumstance may depend upon the difference between the matter with which the muscles and the nervous substance arc nourished, and consequently upon the different matter that remains in the circulation. 354. The external form of the vascular system is that of a tree whose trunk is connected with the heart, and which successively divides into branches, twigs and ramuli becoming gradually smaller and smaller. Each part, from its origin in a larger branch to its division into smaller branches, generally retains a cylindrical form. Each twig being smaller than the branch from which it proceeds, and larger than each of the ramusculi which spring from it, there results a successive diminution from the trunk to the end of each of the ultimate ramifications. As in general the sum of the branches which result from the di- vision of a trunk is greater than the volume of the trunk itself, it also follows that the vascular system has the form of a cone whose summit is in the heart, and whose base is formed by the aggregate of all the ramusculi diffused through the body. 355. The number of divisions of the vascular system, from its centre of origin to its last ramifications, is not the same in all its parts. It has been greatly exaggerated in making it amount to forty. Haller has come much nearer the truth, in reducing to twenty the maximum of the successive divisions of a vessel from its trunk to its last divisions. In certain places, the vessels bifurcate in such a manner that the trunk ceases by being divided into two branches, and the branch by being separated into two twigs. Thus the aorta bifurcates to form the common iliac arteries, which also bifurcate in their turn. In like manner the common carotid arteries divide into two. The vessels of the intestines present this dichotomous mode of division in a remarkable manner. The angles which the vessels form in dividing, and at which the branches come off from the trunks, vary, but are, for the most part, acute in the twigs. It is proper to observe, with Haller, that these angles, to which much importance has been attached, are in a great measure destroyed or changed by dissection, in removing the cellu- lar tissue which surrounds the vessels. There are some angles which are nearly right angles, of which kind are in general the first and largest divisions of the trunks. Thus the branches of the arch of the aorta, the caeliac artery, the renal arteries, he.; the renal and hepatic veins, the subclavian veins, the jugular veins, &c.; the thoracic duct, at its entrance into the subclavian vein, and some others, as the anterior sacral, the tarsal and other vessels. Some vessels even form obtuse angles, of which kind are the first intercostal vessels, the inferior vessels of the cerebellum, those of the heart, and some vessels of the limbs, &c. The greater nun.-