OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENItltAL. 672. The colour of the muscles does not change during con- traction. The contrary has been supposed to have been observed, in examining the heart in action in young animals; but the appa- rent change of colour is merely owing to its transparency. 673. Many physiologists have attributed muscular action to the accumulation of the blood in the muscles, whether in their interior itself, or in the intervals between the fibres. Others have attri- buted it to similar causes, which all suppose are an increased activity of the circulation during muscular action. Haller made various objections to these hypotheses. There is no direct proof of the af- flux of the blood into the muscles during their action. There re- sults besides from the experiments of Barzelotti, that the contrac- tion of the muscles of the frog, excited by galvanism, may take place after death: 1st, When the blood no longer circulates in the vessels ; 2dly, even when the blood is congealed; and, 3dly, when the vessels are deprived of blood. Here indeed we have only con- tractions excited in the dead body by galvanism ; but the facts also prove that the presence of blood in the vessels of the muscles is not necessary for their contraction. It is known, however, that when there is fluid blood in a muscle, contraction, even after death, puts the blood in motion, as by a kind of displacement. 674. The fibres which were straight during the state of relaxa- tion, bend during contraction, forming very regular sinuosities. These sinuosities or folds, which have been already perceived by many observers, have been more particularly examined by MM. Prevost and Dumas, who have found that these zigzags are always produced in the same manner, and that the summits of the angles, which are the points of the fibre that approach each other during contraction, are also those in which the last transverse ramifica- tions of the nerves terminate. 675. During the contraction of the muscles, a continual fibril- lar agitation takes place in their substance ; some of the fibres con- tracting, and others becoming relaxed.* It is to this cause that the rustlino- is to be referred which we hear when the finger is ap- plied upon°the orifice of the ear, as well as that which is perceived by the stethoscope when applied upon a muscle in a state of action. This phenomenon is especially, perhaps exclusively, perceptible in a muscle in a state of sustained action. It has not been observed, either by the sight, or by hearing, excepting in the external muscles and in the heart. _ 676. Certain muscles are capable of contracting partially. Inis at least is what is seen in experiments on living animals, and in some cases of convulsion of the subcutaneous muscles. Is this peculiar to the muscles which have several nerves ? 677. The velocity and force of contraction are extremely great. The velocity is very great in the action of running, in that of * ltoger. De Perpctua Fibr. Mmc. Palpitations Gott. 1760.—Wollaston, Croc nian Lecture, in Phil. Trans. 1810.