OF THE NLUVOUS SYSTEM. 323 In all the other invertebrate animals, the nervous system con- sists of two more or less approximated cords, brought together in- to a greater or less number of knots or ganglia, always united around the oesophagus or above the mouth by a nervous ring at least, and often by a ganglion, of which the volume is proportion- ate to the greater or less degree of complexity of the head, And which, in the mollusca, receives the name of brain. In all these animals, the two teguments and their muscles, the organs of the vegetative functions and those of the animal func- tions receive similar nerves. However there already occurs in the nervous ganglion of the cephalopoda, (50) an evident indication of a nervous centre pecu- liar to the organs of sensation and motion. 738. In the vertebrate animals,* the nervous system consists of a central mass peculiar to that class, and composed of a longitudi- nal cord, the spinal marrow, in which the ganglion figure is no longer apparent, and whose upper or cranial extremity, divided in- to the pair of cords, presents bulgings and developments, which together form the encephalon. These parts, viewed successively from behind forwards, are the cerebellum, the tubercula quadri- gemina, the cerebrum or brain, properly so called, and the olfac- tory lobes. The spinal marrow gives attachment to a number of pairs of nerves corresponding to that of the vertebrae. Each of .these nerves is furnished with a ganglion near its central extremity. The cranial portion of the spinal marrow (the medulla oblongata) furnishes nerves to the organs of sense and the other organs of the face, and to those of digestion and respiration. Moreover, there exists on each side, before the vertebral column, a knotted cord (the great sympathetic nerve) and nervous ganglia and cords for the heart and alimentary canal, a particular nervous system, which alone, or joined to the pneumo-gastric nerve, resembles in its dis- tribution the first appearances of this system in the animal king- dom. 739. The spinal marrow, which is hollow in the oviparous ani- mals, becomes full in the mammifera. In the former it occupies the whole length of the vertebral canal; in the mammifera it ex- tends into the sacrum. Its volume is so much the greater com- pared with that of the brain, or the latter is so much the smaller compared with the spinal marrow, traced from the adult man to fishes. It is cylindrical, with slight bulgings at the places where the nerves of the limbs are attached to it. Its cranial portion also presents bulgings in proportion to the nerves there inserted. The cerebellum, which is formed by the posterior or restiform cords of the spinal marrow, expanded, reflected and united above * See M. Tiedemann's excellent work: Anatomic wid Bildungsgcschichtc dcsgchirns, tec. Nurnberg, 1816; translated into French, by M. Jourdan. Anatomic du ccr- veau. contcnanl PKistoire dc son dcvcloppcment dans h foetus, avee unc exposition compara- tive dc sa structure dans les animau.v. Paris, 1823. Desmoulins. Exposition suL cincte du divcioppemcnt et desfonctions du stjstcmc cerebrospinal.