of 311. OF THE EXTERNAL MUSCLES. operations, since muscles unequal as to length must contract un- equally. The short muscles are met with in the trunk and in the limbs, near the joints. 714. The direction of the muscles is that of a line stretching from the one to the other of their extremities, and passing through their centre. It is often very different from that of their fibres, and this latter is the most important to attend to. When all the fibres are straight and parallel to each other, the force of the muscle, which is equal to the sum of the forces of all the fibres, exercises itself parallel to the direction of these fibres. But; if the fibres are oblique with respect to each other, the intensity and direction of the force are different, 715. There are generally distinguished in each muscle a body or belly, and two extremities, which are commonly designated by the names of insertion and origin. The body is the fleshy part, the ex- tremities are commonly tendinous. The extremities are also pretty frequently distinguished with reference to their fixed point or ori- gin, and their moveable point or insertion ; but many muscles do not come under this description. Those to which it would best apply arc certain muscles of the limbs, which are elongated, and swelled out at the middle by reason of the disposition of their fleshy fibres, and have a short tendon at their tipper extremity, which is gene- rally the more fixed, and a long tendon at the other extremity, which is generally the more mobile. But even in these muscles, the motion may be divided between the two points, and may even sometimes be entirely executed by the highest point. 716. Certain muscles form a single fleshy body between the two attachments ; others, on the contrary, are formed of very dis- tinct bundles, which might be taken for so many muscles. Of this latter kind are the masseter, the deltoid muscle, the infra-scapula- ris, the glutoeus maximus, &c. 717- There are muscles which remain simple and distinct in their whole extent, and others which are divided into several parts, or confounded with others, at one of their extremities. Thus, gome muscles, which are simple at their insertion, are at their origin separated into two or three portions. Of this kind are the biceps and triceps. Such also are the sterno-mastoideus and pec- toralis major, which, for this reason, have been considered by some as composed of two muscles, each- In like manner, the common extensor and flexor muscles of the fingers and toes, which arc simple at their origin, are divided at their insertion into several parts. The serrati, transversi and other muscles which are at- tached to the ribs by digitations, are also much of the same nature. To this kind of muscles are allied those which have a common orio-in, as the muscles which are attached to the ischium, or a common insertion, as the latissimus dorsi and teres major, 718. There are other muscles whose composition is different. Such are several of the spinal or vertebral muscles, and particu- P0» ■*! i If duo »l( into artwi 19. Tk their t of the b {fiir&ci 4 the larsns. jk ■ton to the organs Ljto provided wit jjreatraciifd to th Itendonsat their in Besides the tend (observed at tW c also presen1 jwrapnonepoffli bodies. Of Krvkal digastric n feK tendons |ty aponeuroses. nom one PV *A at •ndon? lis hi Oil tit