OF THE ORGANS. 51 83 The organs also differ greatly in their texture. At first view, it is seen that several of them are formed of the assemblage or union of bundles of parallel or interlaced threads. These are said to have a fibrous texture. Others are formed by the union of layers or lamina? more or less numerous and distinct, and com- monly very closely united together. Some have in appearance a very compact, uniform, or homogeneous texture, but this is only in appearance, for all the organs are areolar and permeable in a more or less distinct manner, and all are more or less complicated. 84. This first view is not sufficient to make known the intimate texture of the solid parts. On examining the organs more nearly, we find that the apparent fibres, these membranous layers, and these granulations are compound; and as the solids contain the humours, people were generally led to imagine that they consist entirely of vessels. This idea, which is evidently erroneous, since the vessels are themselves compound parts, has been very recently again brought into notice in a posthumous work of Mascagni's. Others have admitted that the organs are entirely formed of cellu- lar tissue, which is itself formed of interlaced fibres and laminae, or by cellules and vesicles placed in contiguity. But the cellular tis- sue, although indeed the principal element of all the parts, is not the only element. As to the idea of a parenchyma forming the basis or generative element of all the solids, it is extremely vague and unintelligible. Haller* admitted in the composition of the organs, besides the cellular tissue formed by the union of fibres and laminae, and which is the most general and the most extensive- ly distributed, the muscular fibre and the medullary substance. This division has been pretty generally adopted, with some slight modifications more or less accordant with truth. Thus Walther admits a membranous or cellular, a fibrous or vascular, and a nervous texture ; Pfaff, a vascular, a fascicular, and a cellular tex- ture ; others, a cellular, a vascular, and a massive texture, or one without cellules or vessels. M. Chaussier has added to Haller's three compound parts a fourth, under the name of albugineous fibre, which forms the basis of the ligaments. M. Richerand has added to these the epidermic or horny substance. Of the twenty- one tissues admitted by Bichat, there are three which he considers as generators of the others: they are the cellular, the vascular, and the nervous. M. Meyerf also admits these elementary or- gans ; 1. the cellule, the vessel or the gland; 2. the irritable, cel- lular or muscular fibre, 3. the sensible fibre or nerve. 85. Admitting with Haller the existence of three simple organs, three elementary tissues, or three fibres distinguished from each other by essential characters, viz. cellular tissue, muscular fibre, and medullary or nervous substance, we have not in this attained the ultimate stage of anatomical analysis. If the microscope be " De Corporis hnmanl fahrica ct functlombits. T. I. Lib. i. sect. 3. + lVelcr Histologic, $c. Bonn. 1819.