375 OF THE CEREUIiiroUM TISSUE. first characterized by Bayle and Laennec. It is the medullary cancer, fungous inflammation, and fungus lwematodcs of some English writers. This tissue exists under the form of naked or enveloped masses and under that of infiltration. In the state of crudity, it forms masses of various sizes. Each mass is lobed and lobulated; and the lobules are commonly con- torted like the convolutions of the brain. This tissue is then firm like bacon rind, semi-transparent, colourless, or whitish, or greyish. The lobules are connected by an imperfect cellular tissue of extreme softness, and become confounded as the mass increases. Numerous very minute vessels, with very weak walls, are ramified in this cellular tissue, and in the cerebriform substance itself. When the development is complete, the mass is of a white co- lour, tinged or dotted with blue, or pale red in some parts. This morbid tissue has then a great resemblance to the cerebral tissue, but is less united and less tenacious. It presents various degrees of consistence in the same mass, which may be compared with those of the different parts of the encephalon. The cerebriform masses, which are not enveloped with a distinct membrane, are enveloped with a layer of soft cellular tissue. Others have a semi-cartilaginous envelope, lined with soft and vascular cellular tissue like the former. Sometimes the cyst is incomplete in its development. In all cases, it appears posterior in its for- mation to the substance which it contains. The cerebriform infiltration is very common, especially in the tissue of the neck of the uterus. In this state, the period of crudity is very short. The softening of this tissue gives rise to a pultaceous matter, of a pale red colour. In this state, the vessels sometimes bursting infiltrations of blood take place in the cellular tissue, or effusions resembling those of apoplexy in the softened substance. The blood then becomes concrete, and is in part absorbed. There some- times even forms a membrane, in the shape of a cyst, around the blood. Sometimes serous infiltrations take place in the surround- ing cellular tissue, or serous effusions in the substance itself, which is then fluid, like that of the white softening of the brain. However great may be the resemblance which this morbid tis- sue bears to the substance of the brain, it is not identical with it; nor can we admit the opinion of M. Maunoir, who considers this tissue as the product of an effusion of nervous matter When the softening is external, or in contact with the air, the surface is grey or greenish, fetid, and inflamed. Sometimes it pu- trifies, and is thus destroyed. This tissue multiplies in the organization, especially during its state of softening, although in a less degree than the tubercles. It has a greater tendency than the tubercle to increase, or gradually extend itself. It does not appear to be capable of being eliminated, and of healing spontaneously. It may exist in all the organs. It is frequently observed in the