INTRODUCTION. a body inclosed in ice may be preserved there without sensible al- teration so long as the freezing continues. Thus, also, a body dried by a very warm and dry atmosphere, as that of the deserts of Africa, or by an absorbent earth, as in certain vaults, or by the heat of a stove, or by various chemical processes, may become nearly incapable of putrefaction. In like manner, a body im- mersed and kept in water, in humid earth, or in ground saturated with products obtained from dead bodies, may be transformed into fat, and converted into a kind of soap, by the reciprocal action of ifts fat and the ammonia which results from the decomposition of its fleshy parts. 131. The body retaining for some time after death, nearly thq same organization and composition which it had during life, is the subject on which anatomy is studied. However, as changes begirt \o take place immediately after death, which continue to go on and increase, the ideas which may be derived from the examination of bodies deprived of life must be rectified by the study of living animals. All bodies are not equally suited for the study of anatomy. For. long and continued dissections, those ought not to be made use of w.hich have died under putrid diseases or fatigue, or which are still warm,, or which have rapidly run into putrefaction, or in winch putrefaction is already far advanced. Great care and cleanliness are necessary in conducting anatomical researches ; if a wound or puncture be made during dissection, and especially in dissecting an improper subject for the study of anatomy, the part ought to be washed and cauterized without delay. 132. The anatomist, considers in each solid part of the body; 1st, Its configuration or its form, external as well as internal, if it is hollow, and its symmetrical or irregular disposition; 2dly, Its situation in the body, and with relation to the other parts, as well as its relations of contact or. more or less intimate connexion with them; 3dly, The direction of its larger diameter, which may be parallel, oblique, or perpendicular to the axis of the body ; 4thly, Jts. metrical extent, or its extent as compared with that of the body or with some of its parts ; 5thly, Its physical proportions, whether relative to the attraction of its molecules, as its density, cohesion, elasticity,; &c., or to the manner in which light affects it, as its colour and transparency; Gthly, Its anatomical composition and its, texture, or the arrangement, of its constituent parts; 7thly, Its chemical properties and composition; Othly, The fluids or humours which it contains ; 9thly,, The properties which it possesses during life ; lOthly, Its vital action, and the connexion of thjs action with the others ; llthly, The varieties which it pre- sents,, according to age and sex, and. ki races or individuals ; 12thly, Jts lporbid s.tates;, and lastly, the phenomena and alterations which ift exhibits after death- Although several of these considerations seen* to. belong to physics, che.rajistry* physiology,, and paihology, ra.th.er than to anatomy, there,is none of them that is not calculated to benefit the anatomist, and none that ought to be overlooked by him.