60 INTRODUCTION. reference to their effects, stimulants are very different from each other. With respect to the subjects on which they act, their variety is not great, and depends upon age, sex, and especiaMy the diversity of the organs which experience in a greater or less degree the action of the same agent. In the organization all the parts having a mutual connexion, the action of no organ is isolated, those which are centres exer- cising an influence upon all those which are subordinate to them. Others enter into play by association. Some perform the action which is interrupted in another, for the purpose of supplying it. There is not a single organ which, on being excited in an extra- ordinary manner by an appropriate stimulus, does not exercise a greater or less influence upon the entire organism. OF THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFERENCES OF THE ORGANIZA- TION. 103. Each organ, each action, and consequently the entire organism, presents stages or degrees of development or perfection. The first period is that of youth, of growth, and successive deve- lopment. The second, which is very short, is that in which the organization remains in a state of maturity. The third and last is that in which the organism progressively changes, and naturally arrives at death and decomposition. 104. It is at the commencement of life that the resemblance between the lateral parts is greatest. The heart is then vertical and median, the lobes of the liver are nearly equal, the stomach is vertical, &c. The upper and lower limbs are perfectly similar, at the moment when they first appear, and for a short time after. The genital organs of both sexes are also at first alike. It is at the commencement of life, too, that animals most resemble each other. The relative size of the parts changes with age : thus the nervous system, the organs of sense, the heart, the liver, the kid- neys, &c. bear at first a very great proportion to the rest of the body; while, on the contrary, the intestine, the spleen, the geni- tal organs, the lungs, the limbs, &c. are very small in proportion to the rest of the body and the other organs. This, joined to the circumstance that certain parts disappear or become greatly diminished with age, constitutes a kind of metamorphosis. Thus the membranes of the egg and the placenta, the membrane of the pupil and the milk teeth, cease to exist; and the surrenal cap- sules and the thymus gland greatly decrease, and almost entirely disappear. 105. The organs and humours are not always in the same pro- portion : at the commencement, the embryo is nothing but an almost entirely fluid molecule; the proportion of solids increases with time, and continues increasing to the end. The colour is also gradually developed: all the parts arc at first white; the