OV THE MUCOUS MKMBKANi:. 186 279. The origin of the mucous membrane, from the lirst exist- ence of the egg, and its development in the embryo, have been al- ready pointed out, (256). There remains for us to make known the manner in which the villosities form. It is to M. Fr. Meckel that we are indebted for the knowledge of this point of the embry- ology. The villosities form at a very early period. At the com- mencement of the third month, they are perceived under the form of very close longitudinal folds. These folds afterwards present on their free edge serrated incisions, which gradually increase in depth; and toward the end of the fourth month, the folds are re- placed by the multitude of small eminences which constitute the villosities. They are at first pretty large and distinct up to the seventh month. At the commencement, they are as numerous in the large as in the small intestine, although they are shorter in the former. Those of the large intestine afterwards become less numerous up to the period of birth. It is to be remarked, that in reptiles the villosities are replaced by small longitudinal folds. . 280. The differences of the mucous membrane dependent upon sex, races and individuals, do not belong to general description, excepting however the difference of conformation of the genital and urinary parts in the two sexes. The mucous membrane of the digestive canal is thicker in the human species than in the carni- vorous mammifera, but thinner than in the herbivorous. On the contrary, the peritoneal coat of the intestine is thinner in the her- bivora and thicker in the carnivora than in man. 281. The teeth, as has already been said, are appendages of the mucous membrane of the mouth, which is prolonged into the al- veolae as far as the dentary papilla or pulp. These appendages may be compared to the hairs and horny appendages of the external skin. 282. The mucous membrane is subject to extremely numerous and highly diversified morbid alterations. It participates in the original and acquired vices of conformation of the organs of which it forms part, as well as in their displacements. It also of itself, especially in the oesophagus, the intestine and the bladder, expe- riences displacements of greater or less extent, through the lacer- ated submucous tissue. This constitutes false diverticula. The mucous membrane also presents other prolongations depending upon its elongation and the looseness of the submucous tissue. Of this kind are certain prolongations of the folds or valvulae con- niventes and the uvula, prolapsus of the anus and vagina, &c. Certain polypi also appear to be nothing but a vegetation or hy- pertrophy of the membrane and submucous tissue ; but most com- monly there is the production of an accidental tissue. Swellings of the palpebral, amygdalae and uvula are to be regarded as a hy- pertrophy of this membrane. 283. The mucous membrane is very subject to a serous and mucous flux, which constitutes the phlegmorrhagiae and the blen- norrhcese without inflammation. The subcutaneous tissue itself