The 'ONI °^ the %er, lis a si in *of plastic i ^terafeA whether be- eTe'< uriiciaieftei ieof vheiliac tranis, a tttraed, I trunk oblitmtti \n \he was easily canied on by' : vena cava superior and rely effaced by the pres.' seen a case in which the I? filled with plastic mat- appeared to \>e the result but not constantly/"'" iteration of the veins. bs small hard and M >n tor accidental osseous ,m'lets 01" THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. Q1S ere o1 o , fit jl»ars (HP mo Y FOURTH SECTION. OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 458. The Lymphatic System comprehends, 1st, the vessels -which carry the lymph and chyle into the veins, and 2dly, En- larsements which occur in their course, and which are called con- globate glands, or lymphatic ganglia. ARTICLE FIRST. 459. The Lymphatic Vessels, which are also called Absorbent Vessels, are so attenuated, thin, and valvular, which renders their observation and injection very difficult, that the knowledge of them is but of rather recent date. They had been seen by the ancients however. Erasistratus and Erophilus had assuredly per- ceived the chyliferous vessels. It was Eustachio who discovered the thoracic duct in the horse. Aselli saw and named the lacteal i or chyliferous vessels of some animals. He had an accurate idea ' of their functions. Veslingius was the first who saw chyliferous vessels in the lymphatics of the mesentery and the thoracic duct i in man. We owe the discovery of the vessels of this species in the other parts of the body to O. Rudbeck, although it has also been attributed to Th. Bartholin and to Jolyf. The discoverers j gave them the names of serous, aqueous, or lymphatic vessels. Bartholin conjectured that, like the veins, they were continuous • with the capillary arteries, and destined to carry the watery part i of the blood. Ruysch has very well described their valves. The 1 knowledge of the lymphatic vessels has been greatly extended by I the labours of Meckel and Munro, by those of W. Hunter, and i of three of his disciples, J. Hunter, W. Hewson,* and Cruick- shank,-f- by those of the illustrious P. MascagniJ especially, and lby some others,§ all of whom have given them open orifices, and 1 have attributed the absorption to these orifices. 460. These vessels are commonly distinguished into chyliferous j : and lymphatic ; but this distinction is altogether superfluous and j| (destitute of any utility, for their dispositions, texture and functions i ;are the same. 461. The lymphatic vessels have a disposition resembling the • Dcscriptio Sijstcmatis Lymphatici, c.v Anglico Versa, &c. in Op. Omn. LugcL Bat. :i795. . -j- Anatomic des Vaisscauv Absorbans du corps Incmain, tradultcde V Anglais pur Petit lRadel. Paris 1787. % Vasorum Lymphaticorum Corp. Hum. Historia et Iclionographia. ISenis, 1787. tj Ludwig. German translation of Gmtckshank and Mascagni, with additions. I ILeip. 1789. Werner and feller, Vasorum tactcorutn alquc ly:nph. Anat.-pjiyriol. detciiplio. Lips. 1784. J. S. Itaase, Dc Vasis (litis et intcstiu. absorbenlibus, &c. 1 Lips. 178G. Sclireger, Fragment* Anat. et Physiol. Jasc. 1. Li] s. 11<JI.