A I'PKNDTX. 389 hours S warm poultices, the very bane of surgery, were applied unin- terruptedly for some weeks, and I saw him, for the first time, five weeks after receiving the wound, with a swollen hand and arm, suppurating wounds, diseased bones, and hectic fever. My opinion was asked re- garding the propriety of amputating the hand, to which, however, I refused my assent. When a musket ball has struck and fractured a long bone, and the removal of the limb shall have been determined on, the bone ought to be sawn as high up as possible, since we know not to what extent the life of the bone may have been destroyed by the shock of the ball. Primary amputations seem to me calculated to improve the chance of the patient; since experience shows, that, when all sources of irritation are removed by the amputation of the limb, a bone which, under other circumstances, would have fallen into disease, and become necrosed in the portion which remained between the amputated point and head of the bone, may recover. Case IV.—A. C. of the regiment of foot, was wounded on the 18th June 1815 by a musket ball, which entered on the inner part of the internal hamstring, about two inches above the knee, and having fractured the bone, as was supposed, remained lodged in it. A small portion of ball came away at Antwerp, and others long afterwards at Yarmouth. In January 1817 it became necessary to remove the limb, which was accordingly done on the 20th. He died on the 8th Feb- ruary, apparently completely exhausted. The bone was sawn through a little below the trochanter. On examination of the limb, the ball was found lodged about an inch above the condyles ; the shaft of the femur was necrosed internally to within an inch of the trochanter minor ; the contained sequestrum was large, but was evidently not com- posed of the entire shaft of the bone : several cloacae existed, all of which were lined by a membrane greatly resembling periosteum. This membrane was very little thickened, though vascular; the deposition of new bone along the femur was very considerable, and the whole ap- pearance greatly resembled a common case of necrosis. We have, in the above case, an admirable illustration of the advan- tages which primary amputation possesses over secondary, even in cases where no fracture of the bone existed, and where the mischief done in other respects to the limb was inconsiderable. In general, when a long bone has been fractured by a musket ball, and it has been resolved to attempt saving the limb, the splinters easily got at, and other extraneous matters, as clothes, &c, ought to be re- moved ; the ball itself, if possible, extracted, and means taken to sub- due the inflammation, which will certainly follow. After a time, new osseous matter is secreted, shooting forwards from the sound portions of bone, enveloping the fractured and necrosed portions in a case of new bone, possessing a density and extent proportioned to the original injury ; the necrosed portions of bone are now enclosed by new osseous matter; the thigh is much shortened, and swollen, and firm ; the large internal diseased cavity, containing the necrosed portions of bone, be- comes fistulous, and is lined by a membrane resembling that of includ- able or intractable sinuses in the soft parts; the necrosed portions of bone excite frequent inflammation, terminating in abscesses ; whilst, in consequence of the continued irritation, a new osseous deposit is form- ed, occasionally of immense magnitude. Previous to this, the patient