270 or the lioxRS. der the form of infiltration of the pancreas. What has been de- scribed under the name of petrifaction of certain organs, or of the foetus, is nothing else than an infiltration of very compact stony bone, so as to cause the animal matter of the organ to disappear almost entirely. The accidental production sometimes diifeTs still more from the bones, resembling in hardness and polish the enamel of the teeth. This accidental enamel sometimes replaces certain diarthrodial car- tilages. Accidental ossification sometimes greatly, or entirely, resembles the natural bone, in its periosteum, its medullary spongy cavities, its texture, its semitransparency, and its chemical composition ; but this perfect production is of rare occurrence. It has been met with under the form of an isolated body in the dura mater. I have also seen it, but almost entirely compact, under the form of lamina?, situated in the anterior vertebral ligament. The bony plates which cover the costal cartilages are of the same nature. There is also sometimes observed a perfect, but compact, ossifica- tion, under the form of the hydatiferous cyst. Accidental ossification, which also presents several varieties, is often an effect of age. Many old persons, however, are not affect- ed with it. Its causes are most commonly irritation and chronic or latent inflammation. It is more frequent in cold than in warm countries. It commences with a plastic production, and some- times passes through the semicartilaginous or fibrous states, but at other times does not. In general, it produces no inconvenience by its bulk or mechanical effects. The transformation of permanent cartilages into bone may be regarded as intermediate between natural and accidental ossifica- tion. 606. Exostosis * is also an accidental bony production, some- times perfect, and often stony, and ivory looking. The perio- steum being irritated or inflamed, there takes place, at its in- ner surface, in its substance, and in a part of greater or less extent of its breadth, a deposition of soft, organizable matter, which con- stitutes periostosis. It terminates variously. In many cases it os- sifies, constituting at first a kind of epiphysis or bone distinct and separable from the natural bone, to which the exostosis is at length firmly attached. Sometimes it consists of a very circumscribed nodus, which has been rapidly developed. At other times it forms slowly, and consists of a voluminous and foliated mass. Some- times also, a whole limb, or even a larger portion of the skeleton is affected by it. Spina-ventosa, in place of always consisting of a morbid produc- tion, is sometimes formed of organizable substance, which after bavin"- distended and dilated the natural bone, ends with ossifying more or less completely in its interior. * On Exostosis, by M. A. Cooper, in Surgical Essays, Fart I. Eond. 1818.