35t Ol' THE NERVES IN GEN EE AX j two months after the first division, we found the first nerve divided completely united. This dog died of an empyema which formed in the left cavity of the thorax. Lastly, Haighton cut the second pneu- mogastric nerve six weeks after the first, and the animal survived nineteen months, after which time it was killed. It has been asserted that the nervous action, like galvanic action, might be established through another substance than the nervous tissue, as a liquid or moist cellular tissue. It has also been alleged that the nervous ac- tion can be exercised at a distance, and overleap the interval which exists between the ends of the nerve. Lastly, it has been asserted that the re-establishment of the functions may take place by means of anastomotic branches. If it were by either of the first two causes that the nervous action was continued, this action would not be a single moment suspended, and the animals would not have died in any one of the abovementioned experiments. As to the re- establishment of the nervous functions by means of anastomoses, it is contradicted by a great number of cases, in which the nerve having been cut across in certain subjects, and in others cut out or destroyed by cautery, the functions have been re-established in the first case, and not in the second. The re-establishment by an- astomoses is especially contradicted by an experiment which con- sists in cutting again the same day, in the place where they have re-united, the pneumogastric nerves which have cicatrized after the previous division of these two nerves, at a suitable interval. The animal, which had survived until this moment, dies in the space of one or two days. It is not, therefore, by the interposition of a merely humid sub- stance between the two ends of the divided nerve, nor by the dis- tant action of the nervous system, nor, lastly, by anastomoses, that the nervous functions are re-established, but by a true nervous ci- catrix. In fact, we see the functions, which are at first entirely destroyed, becoming gradually re-established, and in their restora- tion following the progress of the organic union. It cannot be denied, however, that the nervous action is propagated in a certain degree from one part to the other of a nerve that has been simply divided. This is proved by experiments made by Mr. Wilson Philip, and repeated in France.* 790. The nerves are subject to other alterations besides those which result from physical injuries, such as inflammation or neuri- tis, and tumours or neuromata, of which some consist of a hard and very painful graniform or pisiform subcutaneous tumour; others of a scirrhous tissue of greater or less quantity. Local neuralgia; and insensibilities, and partial paralyses and convulsions, are the ordinary result of local affections of the nerves. Besides, these lo- cal affections are sometimes propagated to the nervous centre, and thus give rise to general neuroses. " Vavnsseur. Dc I'inf uencc du syiiemc ncricaux sur la digestion stomaealc. Paris, 1823.