OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. 184 the only hypothesis on the subject. " Absorption and secretion being certain and evident facts, as the father of medicine himself has said,* it has been sought to find by what passages substances issue from the vascular system, and by what passages they enter it.-" Without having been seen, they have been described, the former under the name of exhalent or secretory vessels, the latter under that of absorbent or inhalent vessels. The exhalent vessels have been admitted by Haller, Hewson, Soemmering, Bichat, Chaussier, &c., as very simple vessels, ap- pearing to be very minute and short productions of the capillary arteries, distributed in the tegumentary membranes, the serous membranes, and the cellular tissue. Other anatomists, as Mascagni, Prochaska, and Richerand, ad- mit, on the contrary, the opinion that it is by lateral pores organi- cally disposed, that secretion or exhalation takes place. Hunter had even admitted that it was by porosities or inorganic interstices that secretion took place, just in the same manner as transudation in the dead body. Hewson and Bichat have com- bated this opinion. However, the real passages of exhalation or secretion are entirely unknown. All that is known on the subject is merely this, that in the living body fluids issue under the form of vapour from all points of the capillary system, and that several manifest them- selves in a liquid form or even more or less solid; while in the dead body fine injections, in passing from the arteries into the veins, exude at the surface of the skin and mucous membrane, in the mucous and cutaneous follicles, in the excretory ducts of the glands, at the free surface of the serous membranes, and in the mucous, areolar or cellular substance, which constitutes the solid mass of the body ; but never, and nowhere, are there seen ra- muscules detaching themselves from capillary net-works, and ter- minating by an open extremity. The passages of exhalation or secretion are therefore unknown. It is very probable that it is through the solid and porous substance of the body that it takes place. However, secretion is an organic or vital phenomenon en- tirely different from transudation in the dead body, as is demon- strated by the difference which the various secreted humours pre- sent, and the differences of quantity of these humours. The names of exhalent or secreting vessels can therefore only designate the unknown passages by which there issue from the circulation the molecules which form the matter of the intrinsic secretions, and of the excretory secretions. 393. Nearly the same may be said of the passages of absorption. The absorbent vessels, according to the idea which is formed of them, would be radicles open at one extremity, like puncta lach- rymalia, and continuous at the other with the venous and lympha- tic net-works, or with the lymphatic vessels alone, or with the veins * AnAov, r, u"«rtr,aii. u( iH-rmcy, teal mtirnoi tXoM T$ ffSftK. Epidcm. Lib. VI. sec. 6.