168 OF THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. knee, and the latter, at the same time, also communicate with twigs sent off'by the vessels of the leg. In general, the vessel or vessels which result from an anastomo- sis, are larger than any one of the vessels meeting together, and less than the sum of these vessels. The anastomoses become more numerous as the vessels diminish in size and recede from the centre. They also take place between large branches at the extremities of the body, for example, in the cavity of the cranium, and in the hand and foot. In most places they connect vessels whose origin is not far from their point of union; in others, however, they unite vessels whose origin is distant, and even extremely so, as from the subclavian region to the inguinal region. The anastomoses of the blood-vessels are more numerous and larger around the joints than in the intervals; those of the veins and lymphatic vessels are also very frequent between the principal trunks ; those of the veins in particular, are very nu- merous under the skin. Some idea may be formed of the number and importance of the anastomoses, when it is known that the aorta* may be contracted, obliterated, and even tied, without the circulation or injection ceas- ing to make fluids arrive in all parts of the body ; that after the largest veins,f the vena; cavaj themselves, are obliterated, the blood still circulates, and that the thoracic duct may be obliterated, or tied with impunity4 The object of the anastomoses is to favour and regulate the cir- culation of the humours. 357. The large vessels follow a tolerably straight course, in general parallel to the axis of the body. It is for this reason that incisions are made by preference in the longitudinal direction, in order to avoid injuring them. In many places, however, the vessels have a flexuous direction. The flexuosity consists in a course alternately "undulated above and below a straight line. It is increased by the state of repletion or injection of the vessels in the dead body, and in the arteries during the systole of the heart; and is diminished in the opposite circumstances. It is in particular greatly diminished by the pre- cise dissection of the vessels. The flexuosities are very marked in the vessels of parts subject to great changes of volume, figure and situation, as the mouth, the stomach, the intestine, the bladder, the uterus, the tongue, and the testicle before its exit, &c. and of those which are subject to great motions, as the parts about the joints. Here, however, there are fewer flexuosities, but the ves- sels are very elastic. * Scarpa on Aneurism—A. Cooper and B. Travers. Surgical Essays. Part I. London, 1818. + J Hodgson. Diseases of the Arteries and Veins. $ Flandrin, journal de Medicine. T. LXXXV1I, Paris, 1791. A. Cooper in Me- dical Records and Researches, &c. Lond. 1813.