57 or THE ORGANISM. OF THE OUGANISM. 95. The human body, during life, presents very numerous phenomena, and of different kinds. Mechanical and chemical actions take place in it, as in all bodies; but they are modified by the vital actions. There are in fact in the human body, as in every organized and living body, the essential phenomena of life, viz : nutrition and generation, organic actions whose exercise is subordinated to other actions proper to animals, namely, the mus- cular motions and the sensations, which are themselves subjected to innervation. These animal actions, in short, are directed by functions of a higher kind, which are those of the intellect. Be- sides this remarkable order of subordination among the phenomena of life, there also exists among them such a concatenation that the functions of an inferior kind also hold in subjection the functions of a higher order, and all the functions are so mutually dependent that the phenomena of life may be compared to a circle, which, when once traced, has no longer either beginning or end. This circle of organic actions, as has already been said, is what is called the organism of life. 96. The term function is applied to the action of an organ or apparatus of organs having a common object.* The functions have been classed or distributed into several kinds, not that the divisions thus instituted are perfectly correct, nor that they are of much use in aiding the memory, as the objects to be classed are not numerous ; but because in their exposition it is necessary to follow some particular order, and because it is better to follow a natural order than one entirely arbitrary. The division of the ancients, adopted with some modifications by Haller, Blumenbach, Chaussier, and some other moderns, consists in arranging the func- tions in four classes: the vital, animal, natural or nutritive, and genital. Another division which is also derived from the ancients, since the first idea of it is found in Aristotle, which has also been mentioned by BufTon, Grimaud, &c, and which has been adopted and developed by Biohat and Richerand, consists in referring the functions to those of the species and those of the individual, and the latter to relative or animal, and nutritive or organic functions. 97- The following is a very natural order, according to which the functions may be arranged. Some functions are common, if not in all their acts and all the organs, at least in their results, to all organized bodies, vegetable as well as animal. They are the common, organic or vegetative functions : 1st, Nutrition, which comprehends digestion, absorption, circulation, respiration, and the secretions, and of which the final result is the maintenance of the individual in its form, composition, and temperature; 2dly, feneration, which comprehends the formation of geims, that of • See Cliaussicr, Tallc Synopilgvc des Foiiolicfit,