182 OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. is to designate capillary vessels which, whether they contain only the serum of the blood, or the blood in its entire state, but in series of single globules, which prevents its colour from being perceived, are colourless in the ordinary state. However, it is more consistent with reason not to admit the existence of vessels which no one has ever seen. 389. In the double circle which the circulatory passages form, the evident communication of the arterial and venous trunks takes place in the heart, and that of the lymphatic trunks with the venous trunks near that organ, in the subclavian veins. But in the dia- metrically opposite parts of this double circle, in the capillary sys- tems, the communication is not so evident. The ancients supposed the arteries to communicate with the veins, but did not believe the communication to be direct. The discovery of the circulation of the blood, while it made this communication to be necessarily ad- mitted, still left its mode undecided. We have already seen that microscopical observations and injections agree in demonstrating this communication, and even showing that it is direct. * Microscopical inspection has demonstrated it in the transparent parts of cold-blooded oviparous animals, in the incubated egg of birds, and even in the transparent parts of mammiferous animals. Injection has demonstrated it in almost every part of the body of man and animals, -f* whether by pushing the matter through the arteries, or by pushing it through the veins into the parts, as the intestine, in which the veins are destitute of valves. Some anatomists had even admitted arterio-venous communica- tions between the vessels visible to the naked eye and of a certain calibre. Thus Casserius represents them as taking place in the liver, Riolan describes them as occurring after a cured aneurism, Lealis remarks such communications between the spermatic arteries and veins. These are errors, that is to say, ill-observed facts, which have been contradicted by Albinus and Haller. The communications between the arteries and veins are all ca- pillary and microscopical; but it appears, that, in cold-blooded animals at least, there are some which give passage to several co- loured globules at once, and others to a single globule only. The disposition of these passages of communication has been ob- served in animals. They consist sometimes simply of a change of direc- tion or a doubling of a minute artery which becomes a venous radicle. Sometimes a capillary artery and a vein of the same kind running in a parallel direction also send off communicating ramusculcs, in which the artery changes into a vein. Sometimes, again, and this is pretty frequent, several capillary arteries terminate in or are continued into a single capillary vein. In all cases the communi- * Malpighi, loc. cil.—Lcuwonhoeck, Ue. clt Spallanzani, Exper. on the Circnla. tion, p. 255. t See among others, Ruyscll, Thes. Anat—Window, Mem. Ac FAcaA. Art, Sr., &c— Haller, De FabrirS Corp. Hum. vol. i—Mascagni, Vas. Lymph., Sir. ■ PtvAiomo, &c. —Procluiska, loc. at.—Reissesscn, De Sti uclnra I'ulmon.