OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. 170 quire a pretty considerable volume after a small number of unions, or upon the circumstance that the veins, which are almost all pro- vided with valves, and are more difficult to be injected than the ar- teries, have been less examined than they. These two reasons may have contributed to the adoption of the idea in question. 378. Be this as it may, the capillary vessels have not all the same volume. Three degrees may be established among them in this respect, by taking for the largest those which begin to be in- visible to the naked eye, and for the smallest those which admit only a single coloured globule of the blood at once, and whose in- ternal diameter does not consequently much exceed that of the globules; (72.) The least attenuated capillary vessels undergo several successive divisions before acquiring the smallness of a coloured globule of the blood. These minute vessels communicate together by very numerous anastomoses, so as to form true net-works. They constitute by their aggregate the largest part of the cir- culatory circle, the capacity of the arterial system always increas- ing from its commencement at the heart to the capillary vessels, and that of the venous system decreasing from the capillary vessels to the heart. The circulatory circle being double in man, there are in him two capillary systems: the one general, between the terminations of the aortic arteries and the origins of the veins of the body ; the other pulmonary, at the termination of the pulmonary vessels. It has been advanced without proof, and against all probability, that the pulmonary capillary system has as great capacity, and contains as much blood as the general capillary system. There are besides two other small capillary systems in the ab- ' domen : one between the intestinal arteries and veins, the other between the hepatic extremity of the vena portae and the com- mencement of the supra-hepatic veins. 379. The texture of the capillary vessels is incapable from their minuteness of being observed. These vessels have thin, soft, trans- parent walls, invisible to the naked eye, scarcely visible even to the microscope, differing little from the substance of the organs, and also differing little from the fluids which they contain. They ap- pear rather to be scooped out in the substance of the organs than to be furnished with proper walls. It is very probable, however, that the internal membrane of the vessels, at least, is continued without interruption, from the arteries into the veins. In the living body they are only distinguished by the colour and direction of the blood which passes through them, and in the dead body by the colour of the injection with which they are filled. Their constant, continued and regular course, distinguishes them from the spongy areolae and accidental cavities of the cellular tissue.