112 OF THE SYNOVIAL CAPSULES OF THE JOINTS. there arc articulations which contain several. They occur no where but in the articulations. 212. The following varieties are observed in the configuration of these membranes. 1st, There are some which represent rounded and simple bags, like the vesicular membranes of the tendons. This is what is seen in the articulations of the phalanges with each otlicr, and with the metacarpus and metatarsus. There is in these parts no kind of complication, and by insufflation there is only ob- tained a small round ampulla. 2dly, In some articulations, the cavity of the membrane seems traversed by a ligament or tendon, around which the membrane is reflected upon itself, forming a sheath which is continuous at its two extremities with the common envelope which the synovial membrane furnished to the joint. This synovial membrane is then vaginiform. This arrangement is met with in the hip and shoulder joints, &c. 3dly, A greater compli- cation is observed in other joints. In that of the knee, for example, there occur a common envelope, sheaths for the tendon of the pop- litseus muscle and the adipose membrane ; and, moreover, folds pass round the semi-lunar and crucial ligaments, which raise the membrane and project in the joint. The following order might therefore be established in the complication of the synovial mem- branes: 1st, A simple ampulla. 2dly, An ampulla raised by adi- pose projections. 3dly, The latter disposition joined to the pre- sence of sheaths. 4thly, Besides the presence of sheaths, folds formed by parts which sink into the joint, and are invested by the membrane. All these forms, however varied, are ultimately refer- able to the vesicular form. 213. The outer surface of the synovial membranes is more or less intimately connected with the neighbouring parts. At the two extremities of the kind of sac which they represent, all adhere in- timately to the articular surfaces of the bones, or rather to the car- tilages by which their surfaces are covered. Their connexion with these cartilages is so intimate that the latter might be thought to be bare; however, Nesbitt, Bonn, and W. Hunter, long ago an- nounced the existence of a prolongation of the articular synovial membranes over the cartilages. In inflammation of these mem- branes, their redness, which at length becomes sensible, extends over the circumference of the cartilage, and is gradually fainter as we proceed towards its centre, the membrane becoming more and more identified with the cartilage. The centre itself at length be- comes penetrated by vessels, but the cartilage is coloured only at its surface, and preserves in its substance the white colour peculiar to it. The bridles which sometimes form in the synovial mem- branes arise indifferently from all points of their extent; and it is observed, when they arc connected with the cartilage, that their base adheres less intimately to it, and that in that place the mem- brane becomes apparent, as it is naturally at the circumference of the articular surfaces. In this manner the synovial membrane is