218 OF THE LYMPHATIC GANGLIA. like flesh, but their colour varies in the different regions which they occupy. Thus, those which are subcutaneous are of a darker co- lour ; those of the neighbourhood of the liver are yellowish, those of the spleen brown, those of the lungs blackish, those of the me- sentery very white, &c. Their consistence is greater than that of any soft part. 473. The lymphatic ganglia are enveloped by a thin, fibrillar membrane, highly vascular, attached to the surrounding cellular tissue, and which sends fine and soft prolongations into the interior. The lymphatic vessels whose course the gland interrupts, are distinguished into those which arrive in the gland, vasa inferentia, and those which issue from it, vasa eff'erentia. These two kinds are distinguished from each other by the direction of their valves. The number of vasa inferentia is very variable, there occurring from one to twenty or thirty. That of the vasa eff'erentia is also variable, seldom corresponds to that of the other, and is commonly less. The vasa inferentia enter by the extremities of the gland which is nearest the roots of the system, and the vasa efferentia issue by the opposite extremities, which correspond to the trunks. The vasa inferentia, as they approach the gland, divide into twigs which separate in a radiating manner around it, divide and subdi- vide at its surface, so as to surround it with a net-work. The vasa efferentia produce nearly the same effect at the other extremity of the gland, by their radicles and roots successively uniting so as to form trunks varying in size and number. The total capacity of the vasa efferentia seems in general less than that of the vasa infe- rentia. This is especially striking in the mesentery. The lymphatic glands have also remarkable blood vessels. The arteries are sufficiently large and numerous to colour the glands entirely when injected. The veins which are still larger than the arteries, are destitute of valves. Nervous filaments are seen ar- riving at these organs, and passing through them ; but it is very difficult to know if any filaments terminate in them, or if the whole merely traverse them. Two great anatomists are opposed to each other on this question, Wrisberg admitting, and Walter denying their filaments terminate in their substance. 474. Nor are anatomists more agreed respecting the internal conformation and texture of the lymphatic glands. Albinus, Lud- wig, Hewson, Wrisberg, Monro, and Meckel consider their tissue as entirely vascular; Malpighi Nuck, Mylius, Hunter, and Cruickshank admit the existence of cellules in them; Soemmering admits both these kinds of structure, and a third resulting from their combination. The examination which I have made of this tissue in man, in various animals, and especially in the inguinal glands of cows killed during lactation, has shown to me that it re- sults solely from vessels, but which present a more or less evident erectile disposition. In fact, of the vasa inferentia which penetrate into the substance of the gland, some acquire and retain a great tenuity, while others dilate into cellules like the veins of the penis