OF Tlii: ttONIiS. soft, mucous, or gelatiniform ; secondly, cartilaginous, and some <of them fibrous and cartilaginous ; thirdly, osseous. The bones are mucous, transparent, and colourless, at a period very close upon conception. They then grow by vegetation, and form a continuous whole which is subsequently divided. The cartilaginous bones, or temporary cartilages, do not make their appcarance^'until the end of the second month after con- ception. This state can be perceived only in the bones or the parts of bones which harden somewhat late, for it is doubtful whe- ther those which ossify at a very early period pass through the car- tilaginous state, a state which appears rather destined to perform the functions of bones previously than to be a period of ossifica- tion. The osseous state commences successively in the different bones, from about a month after conception, in those which ossify soon- est, to about ten or twelve years after birth, in those which are longest in becoming ossified. There are even certain accessory bony points which do not begin to form until towards the fifteenth or eighteenth year. 589- The order in which the bones begin to appear and to har, den, has seemed capable of being reduced to rules. Thus the clavicle and maxillos being very early in their deve- lopment, and the sternum, the pelvis, and the limbs being later, jt has been said that the earliness is in relation to the importance in the animal kingdom, or rather in the class of vertebrate ani- mals, where we in fact see, from the class of fishes upwards, the clavicles and maxilla? developed at a very early period, while the sternum, pelvis, and limbs are so in but a very small degree, It has also been established as a general proposition, that the bones which are first formed are those which are near the san- guineous and nervous centres, the ribs and vertebrae being in fact developed at a very early period. It has also been said, that the long bones appear first, then the short bones, the clavicle, femur and tibia, appearing from the com- mencement, and the bones of the tarsus and carpus at a much later period, Lastly, It has been thought that the large bones ossify first a:;d the others successively. There are many exceptions to these rules, 590. Ossification commences at the end of the first month in the clavicle, and successively in the inferior maxillar bone, the femur, the tibia, the humerus, the upper maxillar bone, and tlhe bones of the fore-arm, in which it commences about the thirty-fifth day. It commences about the fortieth day in the fibula, the sca- pula, and the palatal bones, and the following days in the proral portion of the occipital bone, in the frontal bone, the arches of the first vertebra;, the ribs, the great wing of the sphenoid bone, the zygomatic process, the phalanges of the fingers, the bodies of the middle vertebra?, the nasal and zygomatic bones, the ilium,the metacarpal bones, the extreme phalanges of the fingers and toes,