ill til. ML Or "'ties lament, l0* *bic| ! S"Si into. «to tie OF THE TENDONS. ARTICLE II. OF THE TENDONS. 133 bom, «capsules, 4 motions in all directaona.; rand hip joints, although , in which irregular bundles: sveral points of iti contour, lie articulations are rounil. r tht most part at the out- i m'tiifl the articular cari directions, and preventor ed with them. Othenare .hichareattaW j hv one ot ^ I pond o) , 515. The ligaments of the muscles or the tendons,* Tendims, lTnwnfj are ligamentous parts to which are fixed the extremities iof the muscular fibres. Of the tendons, some, which are funicular, have the form of i: Elongated, rounded or flattened, but narrow cords, and are the ten- the others are broadened and mem- oraniform, and constitute the aponeurotic tendons or the aponeu- roses of attachment. 1 Both kinds are for the most part placed at the extremities of the [muscles, and serve to attach them. Others which are placed in he muscles and interrupt their fibres, are tendons and aponeuroses )i>f intersection or enervations. Among the tendons of insertion, there are some, which, consist- ing of a multitude of small isolated fibrous bundles, have neither ihe funicular nor the membranous form. There are others srhich form arches attached by their two extremities, and Tinder rVhich vessels pass ; of which kind is the tendon under which the eemoral vessels pass to become popliteal, &c. form of a at one of their Among the tendons there are some which have the r the other wthe^ uishedty ord in the greater part of their length, and while extremities, or at both, expand into membranes. Thei'e are others which are simple at one extremity, and divide at the other into several cords or into laminae of greater or less Dreadth. 516. The connexion of the tendons with the muscular fibres is rrery firm. It has even been asserted that there are a real conti- nuity and identity between these parts. But, besides the differ- nce of density and colour, besides the remarkable difference which 3 perceived with the microscope between the two tissues, there are een aponeurotic tendons whose fibres have a direction different rrom that of the muscles. The tendons are much less vascu- air than the muscles. They are proportionally longer in chil- dren. They separate from the muscles by decoction, are resolved unto cellular tissue by maceration, are not irritable like the muscu- lar fibres, &c. They are not the continuation of the muscular iSbres, but only that of the cellular tissue of the muscles. By the other extremity the tendons are attached to the bones, irnd generally near the joints. And some aponeurotic tendons, in alilace of directly attaching themselves to the bones, expand and are onfounded with the envelopes of the muscles. The tendons are surrounded with common and loose cellular tis- " Albinus. Annul. Acad. Lib. IV. Cap. 7, anil Tab. 5.