INTRODUCTION. distinguished the vertebral and cranial medulla, the tubercles of the latter, and only as yet rudiments of the cerebellum and brain; this is the case with fishes and reptiles. At a still more advanced period, their latter parts grow much more than the tubercles, and the encephalon is successively that of birds and mammifera; until, at length, from the predominance of the cerebral and cerebellar lobes over the rest, it becomes that of man himself. If we follow the development of the bones, we shall see them at first mucila- ginous, then cartilaginous, then osseous, and in this state at first separated into several pieces, which at length unite. On compar- ing this development with the state of the osseous system in the lamprey, the cartilaginous fishes, and the oviparous vertebrate animals in general, we see another proof of the proposition ad- vanced. We should find similar proofs were we to examine all the different organs, and their collective masses. 100. Man is distinguished from all animals by the great rapidity with which he passes through the first periods of his formation or development. Indeed it is difficult to perceive their first changes in him. This is a point of comparison between man and the other animals, and between man and himself at different ages, which is already rich in facts, and recommends itself, by its importance, to the observation of those medical men who practice the art of mid- wifery. 109- The organic phenomena, as will readily be imagined, fol- low the successive development of the organs. In the embryo there are at first only an absorption and an almost immediate assimi- lation of the nutritive matter. The vessels afterwards become apparent, and it is then the circulation that carries the materials of nutrition to the different parts. The secretions then begin to be performed, and the blood of the fetus, placed in contact in the placenta with that of the mother, undergoes in it a kind of branchial respiration. At birth, respiration of air and digestion join themselves to the other nutritive functions, and the animal functions enter into exercise ; and here, as in the whole of the animal kingdom, we see the organs, which are the last developed, and their functions, keeping all the rest in subjection, and life resulting from the concatenation of organic actions. 110. The organization of man presents differences in the sexes.* Besides those which exist in the organs of generation, there are others in the general form of the body, and in the proportion of its parts. The male is, in general, larger than the female: the total weight of his body is about a third greater. The forms are more rounded in the female, coarser and more prominent in the male. The female has the trunk shorter, and the lower limbs longer, so that the middle of the body is lower in her than in the male. She has the abdomen, and especially the pelvis, broader in * See J. F. Ackermann, dc Discnmhie Scxuvm Prcctcr Genitalia. Mogunt. 1787. Ejusdcm IJistoria ct Ichnogr. Infunlis Androgyni. Jena?, 1805.