sis to be dirided m. Jrancbes, processes, and E of ptoto. of eminences is very sow- •3i OF THE HONES. 255 {follow the shortest course, through a thin bone, and arc holes, slits, i or fissures, others follow a longer and variously contorted course, i and are canal, conduits, &c. Sometimes several bones unite to form a cavity, as the skull and ivertebral canal, the pelvis, the thorax, the nasal fossa;, the orbits, : &c.; or even to form a hole or a conduit, as the spheno-palatal lhole, the foramen lacerum posterius, &c. the orbital, palatal, and (Other conduits. Of these simple or compound cavities, some lodge organs, others I furnish insertions, and others serve to transmit, or afford a pas- ; sage to certain parts. In certain places of the bones, there occur a multitude of small I eminences and depressions, very close to each other. This consti- i tutes impressions or inequalities which serve for insertions. 579. The bones have internal and closed cavities, which are call- 1 ed medullary cavities, because they contain the medulla, or fat of the bones (169). The long bones have a large cylindrical medullary cavity, which 1 occupies their body, or middle part, and which, at its extremities, 1 communicates with the areolae of the spongy substance. This 1 cavity lodges the medullary system, and renders the bone lighter 1 under the same volume, and stronger with the same weight. The extremities of the long bones, the short bones, the broad bones, and especially their thick edges, contain areolar cavities which also lodge marrow. Lastly, there are some also whose substance is compact, contain- ing only microscopic medullary cavities. 580. The bones have also vascular canals for the vessels of the marrow, and for those of their proper substance. Each long bone has at least one canal of this kind, which passes obliquely through the walls of the medullary cavity, penetrates into it from above downwards in the humerus, the tibia and the fibula, and from below upwards in the femur, the radius and the ulna. This canal gives passage to the vessels and nerves of the medullary membranes. The extremities of the same bone, the short and thick bones, and the thick edges of the broad bones, are furnished with a very great number of wide canals, which in like manner afford passage to ves- sels, and especially to large veins. Lastly, the whole surface of the bone is riddled with a multitude of small holes or orifices of canals into which very small vessels penetrate. 581. The density of the osseous tissue is very great, but it is not the same in all parts of the same bone. With reference to this circumstance, the substance of the bone is distinguished into com- pact and spongy or areolar. The first is cortical, or situated at the exterior of the bones. The other is internal. The compact substance is that whose density is such that no in- terstices are perceived in it by the naked eye, although it is per- forated with many medullary and vascular canals visible to the mi-