OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 138 struction, if the individual survive, a new membrane rapidly forms in the destroyed places, and with all the characters of the old mem- brane. It has already been said that the membrane of abscesses, especially that of chronic abscesses, as in particular that of fistulas of the parts about the anus, is, as well as that of fleshy granula- tions, a mucous membrane, like that of fistulas. The serous and synovial membranes which suppurate assume the same character. When, on the contrary, a mucous membrane is closed, and be- comes the seat of a dropsy, the membrane assumes the appearance of the serous membranes. This is what is seen to happen to the uterine tube, the maxillary sinuses, and, in a less degree, to the gall- bladder and the duct of the submaxillary gland. Certain cysts also belong, by their texture and the humour which they contain, to the mucous membrane. Such in particular are the atheromata. But, as will be seen a little farther on, the atheromata are frequently fol- licles of the skin, and there is then only a slight transformation. 287- The mucous membrane is subject to various kinds of acci- dental productions, whether healthy or morbid. Sometimes the reversed natural mucous membrane of the vagina, that of the pre- puce in cases of phymosis, and frequently that of fistulae, and espe- cially in the lung, become more or less completely cartilaginous, and sometimes even osseous, whether by transformation, or by new production, serous cysts have sometimes been observed both in its substance and beneath it. Accidental hairs also occur at the sur- face of this membrane ; there also occur imperfect horny produc- tions upon it. Adipose tumours, although rare in the submucous tissue, have yet sometimes been observed in it. Erectile produc- tions are observed in this tissue, frequently around the anus, and sometimes in the other parts of the intestinal canal. Lastly, mor- bid productions are frequently observed in it. 288. The alterations which the mucous membrane undergoes after death have already been in part described (274.) This mem- brane becomes coloured sometime after death, by the penetration of the humours which cover it. Thus it is yellowish in the intes- tine opposite the feces ; it presents livid marks which correspond to the largest submucous veins ; it becomes greenish in the gall- bladder, &c. In certain kinds of death, it is in some internal parts the seat of bloody or sero-sanguinolent congestions. In death by apoplexy, hydrothorax, and especially strangulation, in short, in cases where the respiration is impeded before death, it frequently happens that the congestion, after having at first been confined to the submu- cous veins, and then to the vessels of the membrane itself, at length produces haemorrhage in the stomach and intestine, as Boerhaave and Morgagni had announced, as Mr. Yelloly* has observed, and as I myself have several times seen after this kind of death, both in man and in animals. This congestion is easily distinguished * MeUico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. ir. p. 371.