OF THE SKIN. 139 from inflammation, by the absence of all morbid, mucous, purulent, or plastic product at the surface of the membrane, by the other cadaveric phenomena dependent on the stoppage of the blood in the right side of the heart, and especially by the state of the skin, which also, like the mucous membrane, presents lividities, and some- times ecchymoses. THIRD SECTION. OF THE SKIN. '■»'; 289- The skin, pellis, cutis, corium, Ssgfiu, constitutes the ex- ternal tegument. It is a compound membrane, furnished with various appendages, which envelopes and protects the body, and which performs several other important functions. 290. Galen has given some observations respecting the struc- ture, and especially the functions of the skin. The anonymous author of the Anatomical Introduction, and afterwards Avicenna, are the first who spoke of the panniculus carnosus. Vesalius and Columbus still thought that the skin is perforated at the natural apertures ; but Casserius, as has already been seen, had observed that it is continued into the nostrils and mouth. We also owe to him a figure of the epidermis separated from the dermis. J. Fa- bricius has described with much detail and accuracy the appen- dages or the various dependencies of the skin of animals. Since then the observations of anatomists respecting this organ have been greatly multiplied.* ARTICLE FIRST. OF THE SKIN IN GENERAL. 291. This membrane, which is extended over the whole surface of the body, of which it determines the figure in many of the in- ferior animals, and of which, on the contrary, it receives the forms in man and the other vertebrate animals, is in fact moulded upon the subjacent organs, and allows their more decided prominences, to be seen. It is everywhere continuous with itself, there being only seen in various places in the median line an apparent inter- " M. Malpighi, De Lingua, exercit. epist. De Externo Tactu Organo epist. in op> omn. U ii. J. M. Hoffman, de Culicula ct Cute, Altie. 1685. Littre, Obs. sur les differ, tntes parties de lapeau, &c. Acad. Roy. des Science, 1702, F. de Riet, de Organo Tactus. Ludg. Bat. 1743. J. Fantoni, dc Corporis integumcntis, &c. Turin, 1746. Leeat. Traite des sens. Cruickshank, Experiments on the Insensible Perspiration, &c. Lon- don, ] 795. C. F. Wolff, De Cute in Wov. Comm. Pttrop. vol. viii. G. A. Gautier Recherchessur VOrgane Cntane, Paris, 1811. Dutrochet, Obs. sur la Struct de la Pcaut Journ. compl. vol. v. J. F. Schroter, dans Menschlich gcfiUd, &c. Leipzig. 1814. Lawrence, in Kee's Cyclopedia; Seiler, in Anatphysiol Realuiortcrbuch. I