I 40 INTRODUCTION, these bones are formed of three distinct parts, the ilium, pubes " and ischium. The thigh is formed of a single bone, the leg of two principal bones, the tibia and the fibula; the foot, which termi- nates the limb, is composed of a tarsus, a metatarsus and toes. The muscles possess great power of contraction ; but their irri- tability is greatly dependent upon the nervous system. The mo- tions are those of walking. Some species can also fly by means of elongated limbs with membranes extended between them. Others have the limbs very short and can only swim. The ner- vous system of the mammifera is especially characterized by the state of the cerebellum and cerebrum. The cerebellum has large lateral lobes or hemispheres, and there is always a pons varolii be- neath the medulla oblongata. In like manner the brain has always corpora striata, and is always formed of two large hemispheres, furnished with circumvolutions, forming two lateral ventricles, and connected together by the corpus callosum. The eyes, which are lodged in the orbits, are protected by two palpebrae, and a vestige of a third. The sclerotica is simply fibrous, and the crystalline lens is fixed by the ciliary processes. The ear in all has a complete labyrinth, with a cochlea, a tympa- num, a mcmbrana tympani, and ossicula. The nasal fossae tra- verse the face, have turbinated bones, and extend into sinuses of the bones. The tongue is fleshy and attached to the hyoid bone. The skin of the mammifera is generally covered with hair, the cetacea alone being entirely smooth. The intestinal canal is invested by the peritonaeum, suspended by the mesentery, a reduplication of that membrane which con- tains the conglobate glands of the chyliferous vessels, and covered with a floating prolongation of the same membrane, which is named the epiploon or omentum. They have a urinary bladder, the orifice of which, with hardly any exceptions, is in that of the genital organs. The lungs, which are cellular, and the heart, are contained in a cavity formed by the ribs, separated from the abdo- men by the diaphragm, and in which their surface is free. Their circulation is double, and their respiration simple and aerial. They have a larynx at the upper extremity of the trachea which opens into the back part of the mouth and nostrils, the communication of which depends upon a moveable fleshy veil, called the velum palati. What especially distinguishes the organization of the mammifera is their generation, which is essentially viviparous ; in other words, the membranous egg descends and is attached to the uterus, after conception, which requires a copulation by which the spermatic fluid of the male is propelled into the organs of the female. They have, indeed, like all the oviparous vertebrate animals, at least at the very commencement, an umbilical or intestinal vesicle ; they have also, like the pulmonate ovipara, an allantoid membrane ; but they have moreover envelopes, of which the outer, the chorion, is attached to the walls of the uterus by one or more plexus of