68 INTRODUCTION. sion of the feces and even parturition have been produced by the fast remains of contractility. The muscles are still excitable by various stimulants, and especially by galvanism. 124. The soft parts remain flexible and the blood fluid, so long as the dead body retains its heat. The moment the latter is extin- guished, the blood coagulates, and the soft parts become more or less stiff. The coagulation of the blood varies greatly ; in general it forms white or yellowish concretions, which assume the form of the constraining vessels. Sometimes the blood assumes the con- sistence of jelly, or even remains entirely fluid. The stiffening of the dead body is a constant phenomenon, characterized by the firmness which the soft parts assume, and by the resistance and immobility of the joints. It commences in the trunk, and spreads to the upper extremities, and then to the lower. This phenome- non, which appears to depend essentially upon the last contraction of the muscles, and also upon the general extinction of heat and the coagulation of the fluids, presents great diversities with respect to the period at which it manifests itself, its intensity and its dura- tion. Thus in death by old age, in death by slow exhaustion or by excessive fatigue, after septic, gangrenous, or scorbutic diseases, the rigidity very speedily supervenes, is by no means great, and scarcely lasts for an hour or two. On the other hand, in strong muscular subjects in which death has taken place suddenly, or after asphyxias and acute diseases, stiffness does not supervene until from twenty to thirty hours, becomes very great, and lasts three or four days; The stiffness of the soft parts then ceases of itself, and in the same order in which it made its appearance. It is replaced by a softness which gradually increases; the parts abandoned to the action of gravity fall in upon themselves. The fluids which were coagulated become fluid again, and their fluidity even seems to in- crease. These are the first phenomena of putrefaction. 125. In some cases, and generally after a sudden and violent death, there takes place a rapid and considerable disengagement of gas, whether in the intestinal canal, or in the serous cavities, the cellular tissue, or even the vessels. From this result various other remarkable phenomena. The inflation of the abdomen often causes mucus to issue from the mouth and nostrils, and pushes the blood into the neck and head; whence arise swelling of the face, redness of the eyes, and contraction of the pupil. It also causes the con- tents of the stomach to flow by the oesophagus into the larynx, the nasal fossae or the mouth ; and determines the reflux of the blood towards the genital organs, the excretion of gas and feces, and even sometimes rupture of the parietes of the abdomen. The development of gas in the cellular tissue constitutes the emphyse- ma incident to dead bodies. Its disengagement in the heart and vessels, determines the motion of the blood, and even its escape at wounds, a phenomenon which is called the bleeding of dead bo- dies. 126. Putrefaction is an internal motion, the reverse of organic