102 OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. dropsies presents variable qualities, espceially when there is inflam- mation. It contains sometimes more, sometimes less animal mat- ter than in the state of health ; and sometimes the proportion of this matter is the same as in that state. In general, the serosity of dropsies resembles the scrum of the blood, only that it has a ■smaller proportion of albumen. There is a point of pathological anatomy to which sufficient attention has not yet been paid, which is, that dropsies which do not appear to depend upon an alteration of the serous membranes or of the organs of respiration and circu- lation, and for this reason have been regarded as general affections, are often preceded and accompanied by a flux of urine containing a large proportion of gelatine and albumen, an abstraction of ani- mal matters which changes the composition of the blood, renders it more watery, and depends upon an alteration of the kidney and its function. This flux also sometimes accompanies dropsies with local affection of another viscus.* 195. Inflammation of the serous membranes, which is of very frequent occurrence, produces in these membranes alterations of tissue and alterations of secretion. The membrane becomes vas- cular, first in its external tissue, and at length in its substance ; its vascular fringes and its villosities are more marked, and even be- come very prominent and very thick. If the inflammation con- tinues a certain time, the membrane thickens a little and loses its transparency. Most commonly, however, the thickening which appears very great, is only so in appearance, and is foreign to the membrane itself. Besides the interstitial deposition which gives rise to this alteration, a secretion generally takes place in the cavi- ty of the membrane. The secretion, however, is at first suspended to change its character afterwards. The fluid poured forth is ge- nerally a mere serosity, very abundant, but not otherwise altered ; or a fluid of a whitish colour, milky or containing albuminous and fibrinous flakes. Sometimes, but rarely, the serosity is bloody. Lastly, the fluid is found to be pus, presenting all the properties of that which is produced in the cellular tissue. Besides these ef- fects of inflammation, there are others also which are very remark- able. 196. The false membranes, Pseudo-membrancc, are not pe- culiar to the serous membranes, but are of very frequent occur- rence in them. They consist in the concretion, under the form of a membrane, of the product of the secretion of the membrane inflam- ed to a certain degree. This product, like the organizable matter which determines the adhesion of the lips of the wounds, is at first poured out in separate drops upon the free surface of the mem- brane. These drops becoming numerous, and spreading out, meet each other, and form first a net-work, and then a continuous sur- face. In general, the same circumstances taking place on the op- posite part of the membrane, and the latter commonly remaining " See J. Blackall. Observations on Dropsies, &c. London, 1S13.