ALTERATIONS OF THE ORGANIZATION. 65 of morbid anatomy. To the medical practitioner this anatomy is the necessary complement of the anatomy of the human body in its healthy state. It is to pathology what common anatomy is to physiology. There is no more pathology without morbid anatomy, than there is physiology without anatomy; nor are there morbid phenomena or symptoms without altered organs, any more than phenomena without bodies, or motion without matter. Morbid anatomy, in short, is the foundation of pathology. 119. The derangement of the organization may refer to the con- formation of the body in general, or to that of certain organs. This constitutes a first class, that of vices of conformation. Some of these are original or primitive, others secondary or acquired. The latter are numerous and greatly diversified. The attentive observation of the former has led to the discovery of one of the most important laws of the development of organization. These vices, in fact, are essentially nothing else than a permanent state, in one or more organs, of the stages or degrees through which they pass in their successive development. Thus, for example, the nu- merous vices which consist in a disunion or separation in the me- dian line, as the hare-lip, the separation of the arch or veil of the palate, the opening of the sternum, the diaphragm, the wall of the abdomen, the anterior wall of the bladder, the bones of the pubes, the ureter, perinaeum, spina-bifida, cranium bifidum, &c. are the permanent state of a separation which in the ordinary progress of the organization is only temporary. The joining of the fingers or toes together, the prolongation of the coccyx, the persistence of the pupillar membrane, the bifid uterus, testicle retained within the abdomen, &c. are also situations, divisions, unions or states of organs, which ought only to have been temporary, but which have become permanent. This is also the case with the abnormal communications of the cavities of the heart, the opening of the bladder at the umbilicus, the existence of a cloaca, and congenital umbilical hernia. Sometimes, one of these vices existing, the rest of the organiza- tion is developed nearly in the ordinary way -r but in certain cases, one imperfection necessarily induces others ; and of this the follow- ing is one of the most striking examples : If the olfactory nerve and the ethmoid bone which contains it are arrested in their pro- gress, the orbits and eyes will be more or less intimately con- founded, and will constitute what is called a cyclops.* This is equally the case with many other vices of conformation. This part of pathological anatomy, which has only been looked upon as an object of curiosity, is on the contrary of the greatest in- terest to the physiologist and pathologist.f • See Beclard, Memolre »ur le Fmlus Acipliales. t The best memoirs on this subject have been written by M. Geoffroy St. Hilaire. The omission of that distinguished naturalist's name seems to be almost the only occasion on which Dr. Beclard has deviated from his usual candour and honourable feeling towards his cotcmporaries. It were easy for me to explain the reason of F