92 OF TilE MEDULLARY TISSUE. matter of dejections also sometimes contains fat substances, whether mingled with its principles, or in isolated masses. Ambergrise is a fat matter, which appears to come from the intestine of the sper- maceti whale. Certain cysts of the genital organs and some hy- droceles, sometimes contain shining spangles, which are nothing else than cholesterine. This matter also occurs, but less frequently, in morbid tissues situated in other regions. The tumours called me- liceris, steatoma and atheroma, and which are regarded as subcu- taneous cysts (Chap. III.) contain a certain proportion of fat mat- ter. ARTICLE SECOND. OF THE MEDULLARY TISSUE OR ADIPOSE TISSUE OF THE BONES. 169- The Medullary Tissue is a membranous, vascular, and ve- sicular tissue, contained in the cavities of the bones. It has re- ceived the names of marrow, medullary stem, medulla and medi- tullium, from a comparison with the pith of trees. 170. Duverney has made it the subject of several observations,* and detailed descriptions have been given of it by Grutzmacherf- and Isenflamm.j All the anatomists who have written on the bones or adipose tissue have also spoken of the marrow. Havers in particular has given a very good description of it, and figured its vesicular texture.§ Albinus has given a very beautiful repre- sentation of it in his Annotationes Academics, only the vessels are there represented too large. Mascagni, in his Prodromo, has also given a good figure of the marrow. 171. The marrow occupies the great medullary cavity of the body of the long bones, the cellular cavities of the short bones, of the extremities of the long bones, and of the substance of the broad bones, and even the porosities of the compact substance of the bones. The sinuses and air-cells of the bones of the skull do not contain any. 172. The fat which occupies the medullary canal represents a cylinder moulded upon the long walls of that canal, and contained in a membrane which is named the internal or medullary perios- teum. This membrane, the existence of which has been denied by some, while others have supposed it formed of two layers, has only a single lamina, easily perceivable by means of an experiment which consists of sawing a bone and bringing it near the fire or im,- mersing it in an acid. The membrane crisps, separates from the " Mcmoivcs de rAcademic des Sciences, 1700. I De Ossium Medulla. Lips. 1758. + Ucbcr das Knochcnmark, in beitroege, &c. Von Isenfiamm nnd Kosenmullcr. B. II. Leipzig, 1803. § Cloptoii Havers. Ottcul. Nov. Loud. 1G91, and Obs. »ov> He ossibus. Anistct. 1731.