202 OF THE ARTERIES. extent without breaking, it begins to tear at the interior. The outer membrane tears last, after becoming elongated and drawn out much like a glass tube which is melted and drawn at the lamp of the enameller. Once broken, the ends of the artery retract less than the stretched, and the blood spouts at first as in the preced- ing case, but soon stops and commonly ceases altogether. This prompt and final cessation of the hemorrhage, which almost always takes place in this case, has been attributed to the retraction of the artery and to other imaginary causes. Many cases observed in the human species, and many experiments made on animals, have con- vinced me that it is to the more or less numerous internal ruptures which the artery experiences before entirely separating in one point, that this remarkable phenomenon is to be attributed. The pheno- mena which follow are the same as after the transverse section (428) 430. A ligature applied circularly to an artery, whether in its entire state, or upon an amputated surface, sufficiently tightened to arrest the circulation in the vessel, cuts the inner and middle membranes, and if the artery is sound, does not divide the outer membrane. If the ligature remains in place, the blood stopped in the vessel coagulates in its cavity up to the nearest branch, which carries on the circulation. The division experienced by the inner membranes, the pressure exercised upon the outer, and the pre- sence of the ligature, determine an effusion of organizable matter, which at first produces the agglutination of all the divided parts. The part embraced by the ligature first softens, then divides in consequence of inflammation, and the ligature is cast off. The changes which subsequently take place in the vessel are the same as after its transverse section (428). 431. In the three kinds of wounds which we have above de- scribed (428-430), the ulterior phenomena differ, according as it is an amputated surface that is operated upon, or their parts in a state of continuity. In an amputated surface, not only is the principal artery obliterated, but also all its branches, which termi- nate at the surface, so that the trunk itself is contracted more or less. In the other case, on the contrary, the branches which arise from the tied cut or torn artery, not only continue to carry on the circulation, but dilate to supply the place of the principal trunk. They thus preserve, up to the place at which they come off, the fluidity of the blood, its motion and its impulse upon the vessel. It is to this difference that the frequency with which the arteries unite by the first intention in an amputated surface is to be attri- buted, and the comparative rareness of this fortunate result when the parts are continuous. 432. There sometimes occurs a cartilaginous production or transformation, with thickening of the walls of the arteries over a space generally of small extent. The productions called athero- matous, steatomatous, Sic. are, like the preceding, only the prelude 0f the stony ossification of which the arteries are so frequently the seat. It is necessary to distinguish this ossification into accidental