78 OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. inflammation. The nerves, in like manner, do not appear to stop short, or to terminate in the cellular tissue. This tissue forms a really distinct substance, traversed in all directions by blood ves- sels and nerves, and in which alone the former leave a fluid. 146. It is in fact continually bathed and moistened by a very thin fluid which penetrates it, and of which the quantity is so small as to be scarcely discernible. The term vapour is therefore com- monly used to designate this fluid. If an incision be made into the cellular tissue in a living animal, this fluid moistens the fingers in- troduced into the wound. In cold weather, a vapour rises from the divided tissues, condensed and rendered visible by the external air. This vapour comes at the same time from the cellular tissue and the white vessels. In anasarca, the fluid of the cellular tissue accumulated and perhaps altered, bears a great resemblance to the serosity of dropsies. It is coagulable like the latter, and appears, in like manner, to contain a certain quantity of albumen, water, and some salts. 147. The cellular tissue is the first part formed in the embryo, and it is also met with in the lowest animals. At first fluid and very abundant, this tissue diminishes proportionally as the organs develope themselves, and, at the same time acquires consistence. At birth, it is still nearly different in the intervals of the muscles, and very soft under the skin. Its density gradually becomes great- er as age advances, and at an advanced period of life it is nearly fibrous in the places where it was very soft in the child. The cel- lular tissue is looser and more abundant in the female than in the male. Blumenbach gives as a character of the human organiza- tion, compared with that of other animals, a softer, and as it were more tender cellular tissue, which renders his motions more easy. 148. The power of formation which the cellular tissue pos- sesses is very great. It is the first part formed; it increases ac- cidentally, forms out of all kinds of substances, and reproduces it- self, when it has been destroyed, with the greatest celerity, as is seen in wounds, adhesions, vegetations, &c. It possesses a power of contraction dependently, in part, upon the elasticity with which it is endowed, and in part upon irritability. This last power also receives the names of fibrillar or staminal contractility, and tonici- ty. It manifests itself by the motion of the fluids which this tis- sue commonly or accidentally contains, and by the general or local contraction which it experiences in various cases. It is not very evident that the nervous power influences its contractions, or de- termines them. It is not perceptible excepting in the state of in- flammation. 149- The uses and functions of the cellular tissue arc highly important. It is it that determines the form of all the parts. It is the only bond by which they are united, and upon its cohesion depends that of all the other tissues. By its elasticity it facilitates the motions, and restores the organs to the state in which they were before displacement, when these motions cease to take place.