OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. very large quantity of nervous filaments, and of ramusculcs of blood vessels, among which the small veins present an erectile dis- position. In the parts furnished with papillrc, the mucous mem- brane is provided with a distinct epidermis, which is named epithe- lium for the very reason of its covering the papillae. 267- The villosities whose existence is very general, but which are no where more numerous, larger, or more apparent than the pyloric half of the stomach, in the small intestine, and especially in the commencement of that intestine, are eminences still finer than the papillae. These villosities, which may with propriety be called the radicles of animals, are small foliaceous prolongations of the internal mem- brane of the digestive passages, whose form and length vary in the different parts of that canal, and which may in general he compar- ed to the transverse folds or valvuhc conniventes of the intestines, with a difference of size only. The villosities,* which were first perceived by Falopius and Azelli, and have been described and figured by Helvetius, Lieberkuhn, Hedwig, Rudolphi, Meckel, Buerger, and several other anatomists, exist especially in the small intestine, being shorter and less numerous in the stomach and large intestine. To see them well, one must take a part of the in- testine not yet altered by putrefaction, open it with precaution, moisten it with a few drops of water until the surface be entirely covered by it, and examine it with a lens having a magnifying power of about forty diameters. 268. I also employ with much advantage, for this purpose, and others of a like nature, a small apparatus consisting of a sphere of clear glass of small diameter, open in a fourth of its sur- face, of an operculum or cover a little larger than the opening, and a thin layer of wax laid over the operculum. The part which is to be observed is fixed upon the wax with small pins. It is then im- mersed in water, as well as the open sphere, which is filled with that fluid, and which is then placed on the cover. The apparatus is lifted out of the water, and we have thus the object to be exa- mined covered with a small mass of lenticular water which aug- ments its diameter. 269- When examined by either of these methods, the villosities do not appear conical, or cylindrical, or canaliform, or enlarged at the summit, as several authors have described them ; but rather under the form of minute laminae, whose number is so great that they present the image of an abundant and dense turf. These la- mime, which are differently folded, and consequently present them- selves under different aspects, appear of various forms. Their form, besides, is not everywhere the same; those of the pyloric half of the stomach and duodenum, are broader than long, andjs & ilUd |; •• * See, among others, Helvetius, Mem. del'Acad, des, Sc.&c. Paris, 1721. J. N. ^I^ils., berkiilin, Be fubr. ct act. Villas. Intcst. horn. Lugd. Bat. 1714, 4to. R- A. Hedwig, Disrjuis. Ampull. Liebcrkiihnii Plnjsku-mkras. Lips. 1707, 4to. C. A. Rudolphi, m RcWs Archie, dcr lhysiol. iv. ct Anat.-physiol. AbhaudL Berlin, 1802. J. F. Meckel,«SjiJJ( in Dcutschcs Archiv. fur die Physiol iii. H. Buerger, Examen Microsc. Villas. /«/«•■ *MrCl])) . tin. cum iconilmt. Halte, 1819, 8vo. ! diet Iatie p1 pally. 1 and id the cecsire k ik itoBtd ad the acraorv di 3 Mil 13011! oft Woatifs m aless we cor totting Ail i 111 tW TO •I-