OF THE EXTERNAL MUSCLliS. 315 sal 1 arly the transversalis spina?, longissimus dorsi and sacro-Iumbalis. OTicy result each from numerous muscular bundles, which are tilistinct at the extremities, and confounded together at the centre, &o that each portion of muscle is single at one extremity, and at tthe other is continuous with two portions ; and vice versa, each of tbhe latter is connected with a double portion of the opposite ex- tremity. These muscular bundles succeeding each other, and uuniting laterally, there results from them a very long muscle, com- posed of short bundles, distinct at their extremities, and laterally limited in their middle part. Each bundle, which is closely con- a each jnected with the two bundles, cannot contract without the latter ]yor on of their fi&shyfibrej, remity, vhicli u gcqe. it the other afcgM ; even in these muscles, (points, and may even est point. iky boif bttm the simple and dminctiE UP 0 i«m> or entering into action at the same time, so that the motion is always inmpressed at once upon several vertebrae or several ribs :—a dis- position in perfect conformity to that of the bones, which always rrequire to be moved several of them together. 719. The muscles of the skeleton, and they are the most nu- imerous, have their two extremities attached to the periosteum and •tbhe surface of the bones, by tendons or aponeuroses. The muscles nof the larynx are attached in the same manner to the cartilages ;nnd the perichondrium. The muscles which extend from the skele- ton to the organs of sense, and are inserted into cartilages, are I also provided with tendons at the two extremities. Those which aire attached to the teguments, are, on the contrary, destitute of ttendons at their insertion into the dermis. Besides the tendons and aponeuroses of attachment which are [observed at the extremities of most of the muscles, some of the blatter also present tendons or aponeuroses of intersection, which (occupy some point of their length, and divide them into several dleshy bodies. Of this kind are the maxillar digastric, and the UBYP- (cervical digastric muscles, which are divided into two very distinct *c\e t\ve mfra-scapuis^ bodies by tendons. Such are also the sterno-hyoideus, scapulo- lyoideus, rectus abdominis, &c. of which the fleshy body is divided Iby aponeuroses. 720. In many muscles the fibres are straight, and apparently 1 [parallel from one end to the other. In several muscles, the fleshy j (fibres, which are all parallel, extend obliquely between two apo- neurotic tendons expanded on two opposite faces of the fleshy I hbody; of which kind is the cruralis anticus. It was no doubt (from having in his view muscles of this kind, that Gassendi com- 1 poared the muscle to a mitten. Other muscles are radiated or fan- shaped, as the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, whose fibres aire widely spread at their origin, and collect into a thick bundle I (cowards their insertion. Such also are the glutaeus medius, and ! .^lutaeus minimus, whose fibres terminate successively upon an j uponeurotic expansion. In others, the fibres extend obliquely in I (this manner from their origin from a bone to the side of a tendon. 'These muscles are called semipennate, of which kind are the pe- '. •omvx. Others are pennated, the fibres passing obliquely to the two sides of a tendon. In some others, which are very similar to 7