He like > ji OF THE VEINS. '203 the slough, l^ j «ns in the artery tie same time, more am hence there finally xesull the branches in tfie vfcm- ption of the latter, lamination, 01 affected b r vitbout apparent cause in*, i«iks contract, ii The aorta has thai r'obliterated. The tot ■hasalso been«M several «s 438. It has already been seen that the ancients made at first no distinction between the veins and the arteries. Galen, who knew their difference well, placed the origin of the veins in the liver. The distinction and connexion of the arteries and veins have been perfectly established by the discovery of the circulation of the tjlh blood. Since then, the study of the venous system has perhaps Ibeen too much neglected. 439. The veins, like the whole vascular system, have a disposition iresembling the branching of a tree ; but, with a reference to the di- rection in which the blood flows through them, they more resemble i the roots of a tree than its branches. Thus their origin takes ] place by radicles which correspond to the ramuscules of the arte- iries; their termination by trunks, which open into the heart, like I the origin of the arteries; and in their course they are seen to i unite, as the arteries divide in theirs. If, therefore, they be con- isidered in the direction of the course of the blood, they present i a disposition the reverse of that of the arteries; and if they be (examined in the same direction as the arteries, a course will be I followed the opposite of that of the blood. 440. The venous system, like the arterial, is double. One : system, which is general, carries the blood from the body to the ; anterior or right auricle; the other carries the blood from the ! lungs to the other auricle of the heart. There is moreover a par- ticular and complex venous system in the abdomen, that of the vena portae, whose disposition requires a separate examination. 441. This particular venous system constitutes a perfectly en- tire vascular system, that is to say, a trunk, roots and branches, 9&d nwy» ^contraction anches. This is and ob- theirf- nduf#V%;ihmen )>'• carry 0 placed between the last ramuscules of the gastric, intestinal and splenic arteries, which constitute its roots, and the first radicles of the hepatic veins, which are the continuation of its twigs. This vascular system, if viewed with regard to its disposition as rami- fied in two opposite directions, resembles the veins in its intestinal half, and the arteries in its hepatic half. Under another point of view, it is indifferent or foreign to both, as it is intermediate be- tween them ; for it is in the place where it is the continuation of the arteries that it has the venous disposition, and vice versa. It is chiefly on account of the nature of the blood which it contains that this vascular system is united to the general venous system. 442. In the oviparous vertebrate animals there occurs another venous system similar to the intestino-hepatic vessels. This par- ticular system * is formed by the union of the veins of the middle veins of the body only, or of that region and the tail, which pass towards and terminate in the kidneys, in the manner of arteries, sometimes sending a twig to the vena portas, that is to say, to the liver. I have sometimes, in the dog, seen the vena porta; have one or two venal terminations. * Lud .Tacobson, De Systcmalc Venoso vcculiari in pcrmullis Animalibus Obbcnatu. llafnise, 1821. * 4