OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. 7<3 the separation is continued, and at length break. Those who con- sider the cellular tissue as a kind of glue, remark that the same would take place were these fibres separated by that substance. Around the whole muscle there is observed a distinct lamina, which in like manner assumes the form of filaments, on being distended. When air is blown under this lamina, it is transformed into irregular cel- lules, separated by a kind of septa. It would, therefore, seem that around the smallest parts, the cellular tissue is really a kind of jelly, while its laminae are apparent around the larger parts. If, instead of air, water is injected into it, and then frozen, there are obtained irregular pieces of ice which fill the cellules. The same result is obtained on injecting a coagulable substance. But these cellules are never regularly disposed, and have not a geometrical form, as has been alleged : their figure may even vary when they are several times reproduced in the same place. There remains great uncertainty respecting the question, whether the laminae, fibres, and cellules are pre-existent in the cellular tis- sue, or merely depend upon its separation ? Although possessed of a pretty distinct organization, in the places where its thickness is considerable, this tissue appears to be inorganic in the places where it is thinner, and even seems as if diffluent between the smallest fibres of the muscles. Admitting the existence of the cellules, should we consider them as closed on all sides, and only communi- cating together after the rupture of their walls, or rather as cellu- les perforated with porosities opening into the neighbouring cellu- les, or lastly, as areolae, vacuities open on all sides, or irregular spaces which exist between the fibres and laminae of the cellular tissue ? The latter opinion appears to be the most probable. But these areolae are, in the ordinary state, of extreme minuteness, dis- coverable only by the microscope, and having their walls in mutual contact, and the enlargement which they undergo from infiltration, insufflation, &c. cannot give an accurate idea of them, as by these modes of treatment they are much altered and torn. 143. The cellular tissue exhibits precisely the same phenomena as if it were spongy : fluids and gases penetrate it with the greatest facility. In fact, 1st, The serosity, in the dropsy of this tissue, always diffuses itself in the lowest parts, or in those which offer the least resistance ; the situation of the patient has an influence upon the place which it occupies ; external pressure also displaces it, and a single incision is often sufficient to let it run off; 2dly, Water ar- tificially injected gradually spreads in the same manner in the cel- lular tissue ; 3dly, The air infiltrated in emphysema, and that arti- ficially introduced, present the same phenomenon; 4thly, the blood of ecchymoses infiltrates in the same manner, and gradually extends itself, in the cellular tissue. All this demonstrates a ge- neral communication among the areolae. Those who do not admit such a communication account for these facts by the slight consist- ence of the cellular tissue. Whether the areolae, fibres, and lami- nae of the cellular tissue be inherent in it, or are only the effects of