21L OF THE VEINS. ft that of [Li ™boit The vpt, 1 is continuous, and I ^insomeplares] «W> a arterial s runks which are destitute J he contraction of the au- ,j em swell out dining the ay and regular state of \ iteil to the vicinity of the f ; circulation is hampered, i s visible in the nei II ofrcspiration: inspi-, into the ren* cars and of there-! 452. The morbid alterations of the veins* have been less studied than those of the arteries. Inflammation of the veins, or phlebitis, is an affection to which Hunter was one of the first who drew the attention of medical men. It commonly occupies a pretty large extent of the veins, and generally extends towards the heart. It often gives rise to the formation of pus, and at other times to that of a plastic matter in the cavity of the vein, around it, and even in its substance. It i depends most commonly upon mechanical injuries. 453. Wounds of the veins, considered in an anatomical point of view, present a similarity to those of the arteries; but, in what- i ever mode they are inflicted, they are much more easily followed 1 by ulceration or extensive and often suppurative inflammation than i those of the arteries, and they unite with more difficulty. After I puncture or incision, there remains between the edges a space filled 1 by a new membrane. Ligature does not first determine the divi- sion of the inner membrane and quickly afterwards its adhesion, fbut that membrane is at first only plaited, and only divides very : slowly to unite again in a feeble manner. 454. Accidental productions are rarer in the walls of the veins than in those of the arteries. The cartilaginous state, or a similar t thickening, sometimes however takes place in the walls of the veins, \ which become obliterated. Morgagni saw it once in the vena cava. (Ossification is extremely rare in the veins. Dr. Baillie saw it once iin the vena cava inferior near the iliac veins, and Dr. Macartney (once in the outer vena saphena of a man who died with an ulcer con the leg. I have observed that the walls of the veins are thicker on the side which touches an artery than in the rest of their cir- iccumference, and I once saw in an old man a femoral vein ossified l on the side corresponding to the artery, which was itself so in its uwhole circumference and to a great extent. Morbid productions are sometimes observed under the form of vegetations, at the inner surface of the veins, whether the vein af- tfected be surrounded by similar productions or not. 455. Dilatation of the veins is of very frequent occurrence. ^Sometimes the entire venous system is affected by it. Most com- rmonly the dilatation affects one or a few veins only, which consti- tutes varices. Almost all the parts of the body may be the seat f the affection; those, however, which are the most declivous, as tthe inferior extremities, the genital organs, and the anus, are the [parts most frequently attacked. The veins which are nearest the ssurface, also, such as the subcutaneous veins, are those most liable tto be affected. The augmentation of volume does not take place iin the circular direction alone, but the varicose veins also form nu- nmerous flexuosities which depend upon an increase of length. [There sometimes occur dilatations of very small extent, and limited I tto a part of the circumference of the vein, whether by themselves are carried to tf the venous ; far ast! tbestasisoi fa** Ml' Hodgson, op, cil.—B. Travers, in Surgical Essuys, part i.