OF THE COMMON ADIPOSE TISSUE. 8G bach have alleged in contradiction of the existence of the vesicles, the development of fat in parts where these vesicles do not exist, from which they conclude that the latter are not necessary to the production of this fluid. Fat is in fact produced in the cellular tissue, but it there forms vesicles, in place of being merely contained in open areola;. 1G0. The cellular tissue which exists between the adipose vesi- cles is very delicate, as it is in general between the most attenuated parts of our organs. These vesicles scarcely seem to be attached to each other, and are separated without opposing any resistance. The cellular tissue becomes more distinct between the grains, and is very apparent between the adipose masses. These latter are even separated in some places by very tenacious fibrous lamina?, as is observed in the sole of the foot, and which are intended to give great elasticity to the feet. In other places the adipose masses are connected and supported by firm cellular laminae, as in the head, the back, &c. ; in others, by a loose tissue, as in the axilla, the groin, &c. To see distinctly the cellular tissue which connects the fatty lobes, it requires to be examined in bodies that have been affected with anasarca or emphysema. It will also be satisfactori- ly seen in this examination that the fat is not free in the areola; of the cellular tissue; for however extensive, however deep these in- filtrations may be, they may indeed separate, and as it were dis- sect the adipose grains, but the fat is never mingled with the in- filtrated fluid. The blood-vessels of the adipose tissue are easily injected. They are also distinctly seen on examining parts in which the blood, when it remains fluid, naturally accumulates after death. These vessels are more apparent in young subjects, the adipose lobules being more distinct in them. Their divisions and subdivisions go on until they arrive at the microscopic vesicles themselves. Mal- pighi imagined these vessels to be surmounted by a secreting ap- paratus, and a canal which terminated in the reservoir of the fat; but he afterwards himself discovered that this arrangement does not exist. The absorbent vessels of the vesicles are less known than the arteries and veins. Mascagni, it is true, says they are composed of an inner layer of lymphatic vessels, and an outer layer of blood-vessels ; but he adduces no fact in support of this opi- nion. It is not known whether there be nerves in these vesicles. When the fat does not exist, the vesicles are equally wanting ; they disappear when that fluid ceases to exist in a part. Hunter, however, says, that they may be distinguished even when empty; but I do not believe tills assertion to be correct; they become con- founded, when they disappear, with the cellular tissue. 161. The fat of the human body, extracted from the adipose tissue which contains it, and purified by washing, melting, and filtration, exhibits the general properties of fixed oils. It is desti- tute of smell, and has a bland taste Its yellowish colour is owing to a colouring principle, which is soluble in water, and may be re-