r t0 OF THE ARTERIES. U>7 Tie, ley Wend ^lielj ^eblood. i and its eJast/citj. ft tofteciicukitora, gravity is about 10& ttable, is a little further so someffhat greater on tie opposite side, Henri? ps proportionally to the hes. It i« not k same imeter. Thus tie walls those ofkmr «las been eon* al(le some open"* fat ?o^er of resistance, 0"*' -nil Tbe SSL sutflation they are filled to excess, they enlarge a little, elongate, and at the moment when the effort ceases, return upon themselves and expel part of their contents. If they be bent, they become straight again. If they be flattened by pressure, they resume their cylindrical form. In the state of life, they are in a state of elastic tension, which, when they are divided, causes the ends to retract. The elasticity of the arteries is very distinct in the largest, and diminishes successively in the small. 419. The arteries are also susceptible of a slow extensibility and retraetibility. When a principal artery ceases to give passage to the blood, the collateral arteries, in replacing it in its functions, enlarge and acquire in little time a considerable volume. This en- largement is of the same kind as ordinary growth, but is much more rapid. The artery, on the contrary, which ceases to afford passage to the blood, gradually returns upon itself, and ultimately disappears more or less completely. 420. The vital properties of the arteries, like those of the other parts, are relative to their proper nutrition, and to their action in the organism. The power of formation is manifest in them in their accidental production, and in a less degree in the reparation of their lesions. Irritability manifests itself in them to a certain de- gree. Their sensibility is much less evident. 421. The irritability of the arteries,* which is also called toni- city, contractility, the vital power of the arteries, and their power of contraction, or the force by which the walls of the artery, in the state of life, approach its axis, even without having been distended, has been a subject of great controversy among physiologists. Haller, who admits the muscular nature of the middle mem- brane of the arteries, avows that his experiments furnished nothing positive respecting their contractility, and that these vessels did not always reply to chemical and mechanical stimulants. Bichat, Nysten, and M. Magendie, have also denied the irritability of the arteries. Bichat rests upon the circumstances that mechanical ir- ritation, at the exterior or interior of the vessel, does not produce motions ; that when the vessel is opened longitudinally, its edges do not turn back ; that when extracted from the body, it gives no mark of contractility ; that when dissected, layer by layer, its fibres are not seen to palpitate ; that when the finger is introduced into a living artery, it is not strongly compressed; that an artery inter- cepted between two ligatures experiences only a communicated motion; that the contraction produced by acids is a hardening, and that alkalies have no action. Most anatomists and physiologists are of a contrary opinion, which they found upon a great number of facts. Verschuir and " See Chr. Kramp. De Vivitali Arteriarum. Argent. 1785. C. H. Parry. An Exper. Inquiry into the Pulse and other Prop, of the Arteries, &c. Bath, 181G Ch. H. Parry, Additional Experiments on the Arteries, &c. London, 1819 Has- tings, loc. cii.