18 INTRODUCTION. dame degree, the most simple kinds presenting it in the most re- markable manner. The polypi, and especially the hydne, ((in- stantly .and indefinitely reproduce the parts that are removed from them, so that individuals may be multiplied at pleasure by cutting them. The reproductive power of the actinia; is not less ; they reproduce the parts that are removed from them, and may e ven be multiplied by division. The astcria? also possess this power in a high degree. They cause the rays that have been torn off to sprout again ; and even a single ray, provided it be whole, is capa- ble of reproducing all the others. The faculty which the taenia? possess of reproducing the posterior rings of their body is well known. Among the annelides, the naiades also possess a high re- productive power. The faculty which the Crustacea have of repro- ducing their legs when they have lost them, or when they have been mutilated, has been determined in the crab. It appears that the arachnides also have the faculty of reproducing their feet when they have lost them. The aquatic salamanders possess an asto- nishing power of reproduction. They cause to sprout again seve- ral times in succession the same limb when it has been cut off, and that with all its bones, muscles and vessels. The limbs and tail of tadpoles are also regenerated nearly as those of salamanders. The tail of the saurian animals, when it has been broken, sprouts again, although sometimes a little different from what it originally was. In warm-blooded animals, reproduction is nearly limited to the epidermic and horny parts. With reference to the other parts, it only effects the healing of wounds, and produces a cicatrix simi- lar to the skin, when the latter has been cut into or destroyed. The organs and functions proper to animals, present, like the pi'eceding, many degrees of- complication or varieties in the beings which compose the animal kingdom. 26. In the most simple animals, the body being homogeneous, or appearing to be so, no particular organ is seen for motion, 'and yet these infusory animalcules move with great velocity. Other animals somewhat more compound, as the rotifcra, which have a particular rotatory organ, and the polypi, which have around the mouth appendages or tentacula, the motions of which agitate the water, attract and seize nutritious substances, and of which some have moreover general motions, are still destitute of any distinct muscular organ. The proper organ of sensible motions, the mus- cular fibre, exists in the acalepha and echinodermata, whose mus- cular system is sustained by a well organized skin, and in all the higher animals, in which the apparent motions, general or partial, arc produced by the action of these organs. The muscular fibres, in all animals that are provided with them, strengthen the external and internal skin. They form the heart in every animal that has one. Some animals have the skin as soft as the other parts of the body. In many, it contains in its substance hard parts, whether calcareous or horny, which defend the animal against external at- tacks, and which, being capable of moving upon each other, trans-