Natic N i W?>oftk OF THE LIGAMENTOUS TISSUE'. '2l>5 contrary. The kicl- ^Meotkrse- I nateriafe amtained a ihe, | iisposed or prepared by the I of cireulauon which results rms the roots of tie acre-, I mid and immediate in- j llandak secretion iapri I nous influence. Tie e&j j s in »eaera/, tiose of dis- I .ffellinow, and espen- £d the results obtained I ictof * llr SS WC 5 A J 1 Js*1 .1 I position, as the testicles and ovaries. The latter, oil th ; are sometimes carried to the exterior of the abdomen, i neys may also be situated too low, or in the pelvis. 491. Atrophy of the glands is sometimes observed, whether i through external pressure, or through an accidental production de- veloped in their substance. It also takes place through defect of ; action, or even without appreciable cause. Hypertrophy sometimes ; takes place in consequence of the cessation of action of other or- igans, and especially of a paired gland. It is pretty frequently ac- companied by some alteration of tissue. 492. Inflammation of the glands is of frequent occurrence, and i often developes itself by being propagated along the excretory duct, tfrom its orifice to its roots in the gland. The inflammation is of- tten suppurative, and sometimes plastic; whence result obliteration iof the ducts and induration of the tissue. 493. Accidental productions, whether healthy or morbid, are wery common in the glands. The ovaries are the most subject tto them, but especially to analogous productions. The testicles, tthe liver and the mammae are very subject to morbid productions. TThe lachrymal and salivary glands, and the pancreas, are, on the ccontrary, very little exposed to either kind of accidental productions. 494. The glandular tissue does not produce itself accidentally. VVVhen it is cut, the roots or trunk of the excretory duct being di- vided, the secreted matter is poured into the wound, which has a ggreat tendency to become fistulous and to remain so. 495. Here ends the description of all the systems or kinds of oorgans which belong especially to the vegetative functions; those which remain to be described belonging more particularly to the aanimal functions. This distinction would be better defined, did mot one of the tegumentary membranes, the mucous membrane, Ihelong chiefly to the functions of nutrition and generation," while tthe other, the skin, is principally subservient to the sensations. It bis the tegumentary system that connects the two classes of func- tions and organs. CHAPTER VI. OF THE LIGAMENTOUS TISSUE; 496. The Ligamentous or Desmous Tissue, Tewtus desmosits, itt white, flexible, very tenacious, and forms very solid connexions aand envelopes. It has been designated by the names of fibrous, albugineous, ten- dinous, aponeurotic tissue, &c. The last two names, like that oof ligamentous, have the inconvenience of designating a particular ■fad of this tissue, and the others that of indicating a quality com- mnon to many others ; for which reason the name desmous appears