OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GliNEItAL. 300 muscles ; 2dly, Emotion or passion, which acts by the same means, but whose action extends to all the muscles; 3dly, Irritation of the encephalon, spinal cord and nerves, which, in the first case, also acts upon all the muscles, but with more or less energy ; 4thly, The application of a stimulus to some determinate part, of the skin or mucous membrane, more or less remote from the muscles; Sthly, The stimulating of the membrane which immediately covers the muscles, as the internal membrane of the heart, the cellular sheath of the muscles, the serous membrane of the abdomen, &c.; 6thly, Direct irritation of the muscle itself: it remains doubtful in this case whether the stimulus acts directly on the muscular fibre or in- directly, that is, through the medium of the nerves. What ren- ders the last supposition more probable is, that the irritation of a part of a muscle produces contraction of the whole muscle. 682. The cause of muscular action, like that of all the organic actions, is almost impossible to be determined. The phenomena and conditions are known ; but beyond this we have nothing but mere hypotheses. This cause has been attributed to the action of the nerve, to that of the blood, to the reciprocal action of the nerve and blood in the muscle ; and, according to the doctrines which have prevailed at different periods, these opinions have given rise to many different hypotheses. It is evident that during con- traction there is a momentary increase of molecular attraction be- tween the particles of the fibre. If we consider the folded form which the fibre assumes, and the relation of the nervous filaments to the folds, it will be conceived that the nervous influence must perform an important part in the phenomenon of contraction. 683. Is irritability a force inherent in the fibrinous substance of the muscles, and does not the nervous action act there as any other stimulus of contraction ? In this hypothesis, the nerves would perform no other action in the voluntary muscles than that of irri- tating them ; and with respect to the muscles which, like the heart, do not contract voluntarily, the nervous action would not manifest itself in ordinary circumstances. Or has irritability its source in the nervous system alone ? In this other hypothesis, the nerves would perform, with reference to the voluntary muscles, the two- fold office of rendering them irritable, and of making them con- tract ; and with respect to the involuntary muscles, whose contrac- tion is determined by local stimulants, it would only render them fit for this contraction' Or, lastly, have the muscles a proper force (vis insita), and a force derived from the nervous action (vis ner- ved) ? It is almost impossible to solve these questions, or to give the preference, with any rational motive, to any one of these hypo- theses. 684. The effects of muscular action, in the living body, are to produce or prevent the motion of the solid and fluid parts, or even of the entire body, according to circumstances. The modes according to which the muscles exercise their action, may be reduced to two : 1st, The two extremities of the fibres in action may remain equally fixed, as in the action of the diaphragm.