221 OF THE GLANDS. rrounded by membranes, baving numerous vessels and nerves, and Iffurnished with ramified excretory ducts which open upon the LofTiimpnf-iirv membranes and there nour out a secreted fluid. In ; flame s are of j time, to the glands and vascular is of the brain, the syno- ;ture, and into which there | t an aggregate of vessels | sail comptkndel many, movledge of the intimate ie g/ands by their ftino-; an<! But bv confound-1 mber of theory were 31 IS* Cj1 Op' t tegumentary membranes and there pour ;ia word, they are organs of extrinsic secretion, furnished with cx- ccretory ducts. 479. Thus defined, the glands are appendages or prolongations oof the tegumentary membranes. In the animals which are fur- mished with vessels and a heart, and which are the only ones that ihave massive glands, they result from an intimate union of these ttwo kinds of organs, for which reason their description is given Ihere. They are, however, more connected with the tegumentary tthan with the vascular system, for in the animals which are des- titute of vessels the glands exist, but only in a rudimentary state. ' The liver, in fact, the most constant of all the glands, excepting, 1 however, the kidney, exists in insects under the form of a ramified 1 excretory duct, opening into the intestinal canal, but free and I floating in the abdomen. 480. It is also rather difficult, perhaps impossible, to fix a very ] precise line of demarkation between the follicles or crypts and the : glands. It has already been seen, that among the follicles there are some which are simple and solitary; that others are grouped, aggregat- 1 ed, or agglomerated ; that others are compound, whether through their meeting in a common orifice or lacuna, or at the same time through the agglomeration of several follicles, or, lastly, through a common and ramified excretory duct. It is here that the difficulty lies, for there is no valid reason for not arranging among the glands the amygdala? which are compound lacunae, the molar glands, the prostate gland and Cowper's gland, which have ra- mified ducts, as well as the sublingual or lachrymal glands. The most perfect and least equivocal glands are the lachrymal glands, the salivary glands, which are three on each side, viz. the parotid, the maxillary, and the sublingual, the pancreas, the liver, the kidneys, the testicles, and the mammae. The ovaries ought to be ranked among these organs like the testicles. 481. The form of the glands is irregularly rounded, and pre- sents many varieties. Some, which are single, as the liver and pancreas, are unsymmetrical, the others are in pairs, and are all precisely similar on both sides. 482. They are all situated in the trunk, and all, whatever may be the apparent diversity of their situation, end by their ducts at the mucous membrane or skin. 483. They differ greatly in size. The liver is one of the most voluminous organs in the body; the lachrymal and sublingual glands, and the ovaries, on the other hand, have scarcely a diame- ter of half an inch. 484. In their interior, some are lobed and lobulated, as the lachrymal and salivary glands and the pancreas; the mamma? are less distinctly so; the testicles arc so in another manner, the kid-