OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. and expression. They are attached to the lateral bundle of the upper part of the spinal marrow. They are, according to Mr. Charles Bell,* to whom we are indebted for a correct knowledge of them, the par vagum, which is the centre of the system, the facial nerve, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, the spinal or accessory nerve, the diaphragmatic nerve, and the external thoracic nerve. 4thly, Into circulatory nerves. They are connected with all the spinal nerves, and are the great sympathetic nerves. These latter and the nervus vagus belong moreover to the internal tegument, and to the internal glands and muscles in general. The sympa- thetic nerve will be described separately in the following section.-f 772. The form of the nerves is in general cylindrical. Their twigs, like those of the vessels, are collectively larger than the trunks which furnish them. The nerves consequently enlarge from their origin to their termination. They are also slightly en- larged at their origin. Their surface presents transverse wrinkles, or striae, which depend upon the elongation which they undergo in the different motions. These striae are very distinctly seen with a lens, especially in the nerves of the limbs. There are three things to be considered in the nerves : 1st, Their origin ; 2dly, their course ; 3dly, their termination. 773. By the origin of the nerves there must not be understood a point from which they spring, and on which they vegetate, so to speak; this origin is merely the central extremity of the nerve, or that by which they are connected with the nervous centre. The origin of all the nerves is in the spinal marrow and medulla oblongata; none of them rises from the lobes of the brain or from the cerebellum. Even the olfactory nerve itself forms no exception to this rule ; it is attached to a prolongation of the spinal mar- row, which, in animals, constitute the olfactory bulb. There some- times occur foetuses destitute of brain, and in which the olfactory nerves yet exist, together with the spinal marrow and the peduncles of the brain, as I have very lately had occasion to observe. Bichat, while he stated generally that all the nerves come from the spinal marrow, made an exception with reference to the optic and olfactory nerves, which is not correct. The origin of the nerves is often situated more deeply than it at first sight appears to be; so that the point from which they are detached is often not their true root. The fifth pair, for example, does not come from the pons varolii, from which it seems to be detached, for this part does not exist in the oviparous animals, in which the nerve in question, nevertheless, takes its origin at the same place as in the mammifera. We must not, however, seek to follow "the origin of the nerves beyond the reach of the senses, and imagine them to proceed from the cerebrum or cerebellum, as has been done for the purpose of supporting hypothetic explanations. It is asked if the nerves cross each other at the- origin ; and the * Phfl. Trans. f Of all (he divisions of the nerves I have read or heard of this is the worst.—K.-