142 OF THE SKIN IN GENERAL. dermis were separated from the epidermis by a mucous or glutin- ous layer, which like a net-work filled up the intervals, transported this layer by analogy to the human skin. Ruysch afterwards figured this net-work. Since this period anatomists have been sin- gularly divided respecting the existence of the membrane in ques- tion ; some denying it altogether, and admitting only the dermis and epidermis in the constitution of the skin, others admitting its existence only in the coloured races ; others again, improving up- on Malpighi, and admitting several layers in the mucous mem- brane of the skin, corresponding in a manner to the anatomical elements in that membrane, or the functions which it performs. 296. The blood-vessels, lymphatics and nerves of the skin pe- netrate into it through the areolae of the dermis, after dividing in- to minute branches. Supported by a delicate cellular tissue which surrounds them, they thus arrive at its external surface, where there exist myriads of them, which, by their ultimate divisions constitute the papillae and vascular net-work. With respect to the disposition of these parts, and particularly the vessels, it has been pretty generally admitted, that they are foreign to the dermis, and that they only pass through it to form a vascular net-work above it. M. Chaussier, on the contrary, admits that all the ana- tomical elements of the skin are united in the dermis itself. Gor- don even goes so far as to assert, that the injected dermis is equal- ly vascular in all parts, at its lower surface as well as at its upper. It would be incorrect to say, that the vessels are foreign to the dermis1, and that they only form a superjacent * layer; but it would not be less, so to say, that they are as much divided and as numer- ous, at the inferior surface of the dermis, as at its external surface. The vessels divide and ramify in the dermis in proportion as they penetrate into its substance, and their last divisions, which are prodigiously multiplied, are distributed in the external surface of this membrane, and in the eminences which cover it, in conse- quence of which these parts are much more vascular than the deeper surface. The nerves are precisely the same in this re- spect. 297- The Dermis, Corium,ox Cutis vera, is a fibro-cellular mem- brane, which forms the deeper and principal lamina of the skin, and of itself constitutes almost its whole thickness. Its internal surface, which is also the internal surface of the skin, generally presents alveolar apertures of a conical form, directed obliquely in the substance of the membrane. These areolae, which are very large in the dermis of the hand, the sole of the foot, the back, the abdomen, and the limbs, are narrower in the neck, the chest, and especially the face, are scarcely visible on the back of the hand " Tn the original author, the word subjacent is used, which is probably an error of the press, for no author, so far as I know, has said that the vascular layer of the dermis was only subjacent; the criticism, may, after all, be considered unim- portant ; the dermis, very obviously, is not equally vascular throughout.