OF THE ERECTILE TISSUE. 188 of large dimensions. Vesalius * speaks of it in these terms : Corpora hcsc (cavernosa) enata ad eum fere modum, ac si ex innumeris arteriarum venarumque fasciculis quam tenuissimis, simulque proxinie implicatis, retia qucedam ejf'ormarentur, orbi- culatim a nervea ilia membraneaque substantia comprehensa. Malpighif appears to have made the same observation: Sinuum speciem in mammarum tubulis et in pene habemus ; in his non- nihiisanguinis reperitur, ita ut videantur venarum diverticula, vel saltern ipsarum appendices. Hunter \ has seen the same thing with reference to the spongy tissue of the urethra; and ob- serves that the spongy body of the urethra and glans penis are not spongy or cellular, but consist of a plexus of veins. This structure, he adds, is visible in the human subject, but much more distinctly in some animals, as the horse, &c. Most of the anatomists, however, who have examined the struc- ture of the penis, and among others, Degraaf, Ruysch, Duverney, Boerhaave, Haller and his disciples, having mistaken the nature of the cavernous and spongy tissues of the penis, and having con- sidered them as being loose and elastic cellular tissue, forming cel- lules, and interposed between the arteries and veins, the greater num- ber of modern anatomists have adopted this error. Duverney, Mascagni, the Cuviers, Tiedemann, Ribes, Moreschi, Panizza, Farnese, &c. have made accurate observations on the erectile tissue of the penis and clitoris of the elephant, the horse, man, he. 398 Alt-hough the erectile disposition of the vessels exists in many places, yet there is a certain number in which it is much more evi- dent. Of this number are the corpus cavernosum of the penis and clitoris, the spongy body of the urethra, the nymphae, the nipple, the papilla? of the tegumentary membranes, &c. 399. The erectile tissue is of very large dimensions in the or- gans of copulation. Although it does not present the same deve- lopment in the papillae, it may yet be very distinctly observed in them. The papillae, those of the tongue in particular, consist of en- larged soft nervous filaments, destitute of neurilema, intermingled with an innumerable multitude of capillary blood-vessels, tortuous, curved in the form of arches, and anastomosing with each other, the whole enveloped and kept together by a soft and mucous cel- lular tissue. In the state of rest, these papillae are small, soft, pale, and indistinct. In the state of erection, on the contrary, they are enlarged, raised up, of a red colour, inflated by blood, and possessed of great sensibility. The nipple, or the papilla of the mamma, appears to differ from the others only in being of larger dimensions. The skin and mu- cous membrane present the papillar and erectile dispositions, in va- * De Corp. Hum. Fabrica. Lib* v. cap. 14. | Diss. Epist. Farii Argum. in Op. Omn. vol. ii. | Observations on certain parts of the Animal Economy. 4to. London, 1786, p. 38.