OF THE EXTERNAL MUSCLES. 313 the points of attachment of the muscles. M. Dumcril * lias also ■ engaged in reforming the language of anatomy, by taking for the i roots of that language the Greek or Latin names of the bones and • viscera, and only varying the terminations of these names for the other organs and for the regions. The termination of the muscles is ten : thus, the name occipito-frontien, without adding the word muscle to it, designates in this nomenclature, the occipito-frontalis muscle. Vicq-d'Azyr also directed his attention to this subject, but did not put his project in execution. Dr. Barclay also engaged in it, and in particular laboured to give proper and precise names i to the different regions of the body. M. Schreger -f- has collected i most of the anatomical names hitherto employed into a voluminous ! Synonymetry, in which we find some organs having almost ay i many names as there are treatises on anatomy. The dread of con- iributing to the increase of a confusion which is augmented by al- imost every new work that appears, ought to induce anatomists to temploy names already in use, selecting the best known, the most iiisimple and the most significant. 711. According to their situation and their destination for the 1 motion of some particular organ or part, the external muscles are j< distinguished into those of the skeleton or bones., those of the la- |irynx, and those of the organs of sense and skin. Several external umuscles also belong to the orifices of the digestive, respiratory, ge- ;inital and urinary passages, and are there insensibly confounded ■with the internal muscles. The muscles of the skeleton are situated on the trunk and limbs. 11 In the limbs they form large masses, and are elongated. In the itrunk they are broad, numerous on the back and abdomen, less so <on the thorax, and much less so on the skull. 712. The muscles vary greatly in size : some are large or volu- iminous, others middle-sized, others small, and others very small. 713. All the muscles, excepting the diaphragm, the sphincters kof the mouth and arms, the arytenoidaeus, and frequently the leva- ittor uvulae, are paired. All, excepting the diaphragm, are sym- metrical, or similar on both sides of the body, although some slight (difference is generally observed in this respect, those of the left side Ibeing smaller. According to their form the muscles are further distinguished into I broad, long and short. The broad muscles belong to the trunk. Some of them extend ffrom the trunk to the limbs, and are then elongated in this latter ipart of their extent. The long muscles belong to the limbs, and are generally dispos- ed in layers, the most external being the longest and straightest, tthe deepest having much less length and more obliquity. This ar- rangement it is of importance to know with reference to surgical J * Mugasin Encyrfopcclique. f Synonymic Anatomtca, Auct. Chr. II. Th. Schreger, Fitrthii, Svo. 380 pages. mw