OF THE VlilNS. 212 or connected with more general dilatations. The aneurismal varix is another kind of dilatation dependent upon the accidental com-, munication of an artery and a vein, and upon the passage of the blood from the former into the latter. This affection is commonly accompanied with a remarkable thickening of the walls of the di- lated and elongated vein. Sometimes, moreover, a consecutive aneurism forms between the two vessels. This case is that of the varicose aneurism. 456. The veins sometimes contract by the thickening of their walls. They are sometimes closed up from the effect of plastic inflammation. Sometimes they are compressed by tumours in the neighbourhood, or embraced by a ligature. In these cases, in which their cavity becomes obliterated, and in which the circula- tion ceases to be performed in them, the blood passes through branches and anastomoses, and a collateral circulation is established. The vena cava inferior has been seen obliterated, whether be- neath the hepatic veins, or even at their level, in which case the blood passed through the vena azygos. One of the iliac trunks, a jugular vein, &c. have repeatedly been found obliterated. I have four times seen the crural venous trunk obliterated in the groin. In all these cases the circulation was easily carried on by collateral passages. Hunter once saw the vena cava superior and the left brachio-cephalic vein almost entirely effaced by the pres- sure of an aneurism. I have, however, seen a case in which the vena cava superior and its branches, being filled with plastic mat- ter, and impermeable to the blood, death appeared to be the result of this alteration. I have several times, but not constantly, seen great serous infiltrations coincide with obliteration of the veins. 457- There sometimes occur in the veins small hard and round bodies, which might at first sight be taken for accidental osseous productions. Some have even supposed them to have been at first formed in the walls of the veins, in the edge of their valves, or even at the exterior of these vessels; but this is not the case. They are concretions or phlebolites, from the size of a millet seed to that of a small pea, varying in their consistence, formed of superimposed layers, inclosed in coagulated fibrinous blood, and often lodged in lateral dilatations of the veins in which the blood remains in a state of stagnation, or in varicose veins, and always in declivous veins. The veins in which they are, in fact, most commonly met with, are those of the anus, the neck of the bladder, the uterus, the ovaries, the testicles, and sometimes even the subcutaneous veins of the leg. The Hexathyridium or pohjstoma venarum, of which Treutlcr found two individuals in the ruptured tibial vein of a man, who had been washing in a river, appears to be an aquatic worm, a planaria, which might have introduced itself there, and not on cntozoaiium.