«38 OF THE FIBIIO-CAUT1LAGINOUS TISSUE. They arc perforated by some openings for the passage of vessels, but have little vascularity themselves. Their common uses are to determine the form of the organs which they envelope, to contain, support, and protect the internal parts. THIRD SECTION. OF THE FIBItO-CARTILAGINOUS TISSUE. 528. The Fibro-cartilaginous Tissue is fibrous and tenacious like the ligamentous tissue, of which it really forms a part; white, very dense and elastic, like the cartilaginous tissue; and seems in- termediate between the ligaments and cartilages. 529. Galen has named certain ligaments neurochondroid, wupo- Xpvdgwdig (Suvhepoi; Vesalius calls them cartilaginous ligaments; Morgagni considers them as intermediate between the ligaments and cartilages; Weitbrecht comprehends them among the liga- ments ; Haase, on the contrary, arranges them in his Chondrology, under the names of ligamentous and mixed cartilages. Bichat has proposed a fibro-cartilaginous system, composed of the cartilagini- form ligamentous tissue of which we here speak, and a part of the cartilaginous tissue, which will be described in the next chapter; but this system of organs does not seem to me to exist in nature, for which reason I have not retained it. The fibro-cartilages of which we speak appear to me to be but a variety of the desmous tissue : they are cartilaginiform ligamentous organs. 530. The fibro-cartilages are temporary or permanent. The temporary fibro-cartilages are those which pass regularly, constantly, and at determinate epochs, into the osseous state: they are the fibro-cartilages of ossification. They are met with in the substance of the tendons and ligaments. They are purely fibrous in the beginning, and afterwards become fibro-cartilaginous, and ultimately osseous. The patella and sesamoid bones are developed in this manner. The places where the tendons rub against the bones, those, for example, where the gemelli are applied upon the femur, and where the peronjeus longus lateralis slides upon the tarsus, are also constantly the seat of fibro-cartilages of this kind. The stylo-hyoid and thyro-hyoid ligaments contain grains of the same nature in their substance. The sclerotica, in certain animals, presents opaque dots, equally fibro-cartilaginous, which afterwards form bony plates. 531. The permanent fibro-cartilages, or at least those which re- main during the greater part of life, are of several species. 1st, There are some which are free at their two surfaces. These are the inter-articular ligaments, menisci. They are met with in the temporo-maxillar and stemo-clavicular articulations, sometimes in that of the acromion with the clavicle, and always between the femur and tibia, and between the ulna and pyramidal bone. These