386 APPENDIX. A modification of this opinion h;is been adopted and well defended by others. The periosteum, they observe, cannot be the organ for tike secretion of new bone, in cases where the periosteum lias been remov- ed. The objection is unanswerable. They conclude, therefore, that the whole of the soft parts around the bone contribute to the forma- tion of new ossific matter; amongst which it is evident they must in- clude the periosteum, when that membrane is present. Early in 1814, I began to consider these opinions as untenable : the formation of new osseous matter in cases of necrosis, compound f rac- ture and caries, did not seem to be connected with the periosteum or soft parts, in those cases which came under my observation ; and I re- marked, in one very interesting case of hip disease, in which the tro- chanter major was the only Dart affected with caries, that nature had attempted repairing the injury done the bone, though no sequestrum or dead portion existed, by a secretion of new ossific matter around the circumference of the ulcer in the bone, which new osseous matter was evidently formed by the vessels of the old bone, the periosteum re- maining perfectly sound and unchanged. It was not, however, till the winter of 1815, that I perceived fully the inaccuracies which had crept into the writings of authors on necrosis, and on the regeneration of bone, and that I formed the following opinions, which I sliall now sketch very briefly. Necrosis, or the death of a bone, may arise from a variety of causes, and may be complicated with other diseases and conditions of the part affected, rendering the process of the formation of new bone obscure and difficult to be understood. The simplest case, perhaps, is the death of the shaft of a cylindrical or long bone, either in whole or part, occasioned by a blow. Case I.—I was requested to examine the leg of a boy who had been struck about two years before on the spine of the tibia, by a stone thrown at him with some force. At the time I saw him, he ran about as if nothing ailed him ; the leg was swelled, and purulent matter flow- ed out in abundance by three fistulous orifices ; these led to a seques- trum of considerable length. The disease could be traced directely to the blow, and the leg, indeed, had never been well since that period ; he had preserved his health, however, and been always able to run about without the aid of cratches ; circumstances which seldom happen to those who have enjoyed the benefit of hospital air and surgical treat- ment. I ascertained that the bone had never been fractured. In such cases, and I have seen several, a portion of bone only is dead ; the external layers of the old bone become vascular, spongy, and full of holes, for the transmission of vessels ; new osseous matter is deposited in the interstices; the whole bone becomes much thickened, and occasionally heavy and compact. This progress of regeneration has been well described by Leveille, who endeavoured, some years ago, to extend the doctrine to all cases of necrosis; it is merely a thickening of the old bone. If examined in a recent stnte, the perios- teum will be found very vascular and pulpy, but neither thickened nor ossified ; and, when the disease has ceased, or the cause of irritation been removed, the membrane recovers entirely its natural texture. Yet I have seen specimens of this description (and they are very com- mon in museums) described as belonging to cases in which the entire