INTRODUCTION. 16 lates, and excretes ; of one or two surfaces, the skin and the intes- tines through which the foreign matters have to pass from without inwards, or from within outwards, by absorption or by secretion ; of vessels which establish communications between the surfaces of the body and all parts of its substance, and between the latter and the former ; of respiratory organs, which are parts of the surfaces in which the fluid is placed in contact with the atmosphere, and of secreting organs which are other parts of the surfaces, by which a part of the fluid is rejected. 22. Generation, or the production of a new being similar to that from which it derives its origin, the second function common to all organized and living bodies, also presents in animals a great diver- sity in its organs and phenomena. This function, in the simplest state, has no particular organ destined for performing it; the whole body, which is very simple and homogeneous, separates into several fragments each of which retains the properties of the whole. This is the fissiparous generation. It belongs essentially to the infusoria, but exists accidentally in others. In other animals of the same group there are perceived in the substance of the body glo- bules or corpuscles which appear destined for reproduction. This is the subgemmiferous generation, or the first indication of a pro- duction of buds. In a higher state the generation is, in fact, gem- miparous ; a bud grows upon the outer surface of the body, upon the skin, and is afterwards detached to form a new being distinct from its parent, or continues to remain upon it, and forms a branch. This kind of generation belongs to the polypi. There is also an internal gemmiparous or suboviparous generation. Its organ consists of cavities prolonged into the mass of the body, and in the interior of which, grow buds or ovula which separate spontan- eously, and issue by a canal which opens at the surface. This mode of generation is that of the acalepha, the echinodermata, and perhaps, the cestoid intestinal worms. The acalepha and some gasteropodous mollusca differ from it only in having a true ovarium. In all these cases, there are, properly speaking, no sex- ual organs. 23. In all the higher organizations there are genital organs, ex- isting in two distinct sexes, which require to come together for the vivification of the germs; of these, the female organs consist of an aggregation of germs or an ovarium, a canal by which the germs, after becoming detached, are carried out of the body, and which is named the oviduct, and, in several species, a cavity in which they remain a certain time, become attached to it, and grow before they are expelled. This cavity is the uterus, and the ori- fice by which they escape, is the vulva. The male organs are glands called testicles, which secrete the sperm, or fecundating fluid ; and when this fluid is to be introduced into the body of the female, the male is also provided with a penis. In this kind of organization the concurrence of .the two sorts of organs is neces- sary for generation. The first appearance of it occurs in certain