,0F THE SPLANCHNIC SliltOUS MEMBRANES. 117 like the other serous membranes, might be affected in its whole ex- tent, and independently of the subjacent parts. Lastly, Dr. Car- michael Smith had marked with accuracy the identity of the in- flammation of all the transparent membranes, when Bichat pub- lished his complete and accurate description of the serous mem- branes, and particularly of the arachnoid. Since then various de- scriptions have been given of several of these membranes, but little has been added to Bichat's statements* Their pathological history has received more additions. . 223. The serous membranes of which we here speak are situated in the cavities of the trunk, which they line. They there invest the most important organs, those which are most essential to life. These membranes arc distinct and separate from each other. Their number is not great; they are, 1st, The peritoneum in the abdo- men, where it invests more or less completely most of the organs of digestion, which are contained in that cavity, and in a much smaller degree the genital and urinary organs; 2ehy and 3dly, The two pleurae ; and 4thly, The pericardium, in the thorax, where each of these membranes is confined to a single organ and to the walls of its cavity ; Sthly, The arachnoid membrane, within the cranium and in the spinal canal; Gthly and 'Jthly, In man only the tunica vaginalis of the testicles. The whole extent of these membranes is very great, and much surpasses that of the skin. The peritoneum is the largest, its ex- tent being at least equal to that of all the others together. 221. The general description of the serous membranes has al- ready in a great measure made known the species of which we here speak, and which may be considered as the type of the genus. Their form is the same as that of all the serous membranes, that of a bladder without aperture, and having the walls in contact. They invest on the one hand the inner surface of the walls of the cavity in which they are contained, and on the other furnish external coats or envelopes to the organs. The plcurce, the pericardium, and the tunica vaginalis have a rather simple conformation, their visceral and parietal parts being continued all around from the point at which the organ which they invest is connected by vascular prolon- gations to the walls of the cavity which contains it. Their disposi- tion is somewhat more complex in the arachnoid membrane and .peritoneum, although it continues essentially the same. In the for- mer, the complication depends upon the great number of vessels and nerves that terminate in the brain and issue from it. Now, over each of these parts the arachnoid membrane forms a sheath which is continuous at one of its extremities with the visceral lamina of the membrane, and at the other with its parietal lamina, an ar- rangement which was pointed out and figured by Bonn, to which 13ichat more particularly directed his attention, and from . * See Lantfenbeck, Commentarium du Slructura Peritonaea, §c, cum labnlh, Getting. 1817—L. liolandn. Ouervaslonl tulperitonea ct sullapkuru, inj&em. dclfetcal Acca^. ddle scienxe. T. xxiv, Turin, 1820.