OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. 77 various distending agents, it presents remarkable variations in this respect. In certain places it is principally filamentous or fibrillous i in others it is especially laminar or lamellar, as in the palpcbra?, the prepuce, the scrotum, the labia pudendi, and between the muscles which possess great mobility. It forms so much the larger areola;, the more lamellar and loose it is, and these wide areolae seem to be the first rudiments of the serous cavities. 144. The cellular tissue is colourless when it is in thin lamina?, and appears whitish when its thickness is greater, and especially when it is distended. It is semi-transparent. Its power of cohe- sion varies, it being merely that of a slightly viscous fluid in some places, as between the muscular fibrillar, while in others its tenacity is nearly equal to that of the fibrous tissue. This tissue is pos- sessed of great extensibility and retractility, as is seen when it is blown into, and an incision afterwards made into it, in which case it contracts powerfully, and expels the air by which it was distend- ed. Its chemical properties have been carefully studied by Bichat. Deprived of water by desiccation, it loses some of its physical pro- perties, and acquires new ones. In this state, it is hygrometrical and susceptible of resuming its first appearance when put into water. This is common to it with almost all the organic tissues. Exposed to heat, it rapidly dries up, crisps, and at length burns, like all the other tissues, but leaving very little ashes. It strongly resists decoction, and only melts after long continued boiling. Its putrefaction is very slow : it requires a maceration of several months, even when care is taken not to renew the water, before it decomposes. It is at length converted into a viscid substance re- sembling mucilage, and furnishes various products which come to the surface of the fluid. Fourcroy found it composed of gelatine; John met in it, moreover, a small quantity of fibrine, and of phos- phate and carbonate of lime. 145. The intimate nature of the cellular tissue has given rise to numerous hypotheses. Ruysch supposed it entirely vascular; Mascagni, who hardly mentions it, says it is composed of white vessels; Fontana, of tortuous cylinders ; others regard it as an expansion of the nerves. The only basis which can be admitted in it is the fibre or cellular substance, ยง 68, 85. It is traversed by a great number of vessels, and especially of serous vessels, but it must not be considered as entirely formed of them, for it is it that ultimately forms the walls of the latter vessels. The cellular tissue has canals or cavities which are proper to it. They are small va- cuities or areola; which are formed in it, or which the fluids form in proportion as they are deposited in it, and which, by their com- munication, render it a spongy and permiable body. Almost all the anatomists who have much engaged in injections, as Haller, Albinus, and Prochaska, have ranked it among the solid parts or those incapable of being injected; that is to say, it is placed out of the circulatous course of the vessels. The blood may nevertheless pass into its proper canals, or cavities, but then it is in a state of