OF THE GANGLIA AND SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 355 THIRD SECTION. OK THE GANGLIA AND SYMPATHETIC NEltVE. 791- The Nervous Ganglia are round or oblong bodies, formed of medullary nervous filaments and a peculiar substance, situated in the course of the nerves, and especially of the nerves of the vege- tative functions. 792. The name ganglion, yayyXw^ was employed by Hippo- crates to designate the tumours of the sheaths of the tendons. Galen first applied it to the nodosities of the nerves, by comparing them with the morbid ganglia. J. Riolan the younger and Vieus- sens made use of the same name. Others have employed that of gangliform plexus. The term ganglion, however, is now univer- sally adopted. MM. Gall, Reil, Walther, de Blainville, &c. have extended the sense of the word ganglion, and have applied it to grey substance which exists in the interior of the spinal marrow, to the masses of grey substance which are met with in the medulla oblongata, and in the peduncles of the cerebrum and cerebellum, as the olivary emi- nences, the rhomboidal body of the cerebellum, the optic thalami and corpora striata. It has even been extended to the olfac- tory lobes, the hemispheres of the brain, the tubercles and the ce- rebellum. Lastly, the ganglia have been confounded with the plexuses and with the sensorial nervous expansions. These are forced assimilations which have been already combated by the elder Walther, Reimar, and Soemmering. It is not in this sense that the word ganglion is here employed. 793. The ganglia have been particularly examined and describ- ed by Meckel, * Johnstone, -f- Haase,J Scarpa, || Bichat,§ Weber, and especially Wutzer. ** The opinions which anatomists and physiologists have formed respecting the texture and function of the ganglia, may be referred to two principal ones ; some consider- ing them merely as condensed plexuses, and regarding the nerves which proceed from them only as remote divisions of the spinal and cranial nerves ; others considering the ganglia as particular nervous centres, and regarding the nerves which emanate from them as independent of the nervous system. It will be seen that these two opposite opinions must be combined and modify each other. 794. The inferior animals, that is to say, the radiaria, mollusca, • JIM. de PAcad, de Berlin, 1749 and 1753. •f Essays on the Use of the Ganglions, &c. 1771.—Medical Essays, &c. 1795. J Dc Gan^Uis Nervorum, I.ipsiaj, 1762. || De Nervorum Gmujliis ct Plcvubus, Mutinae, 1779. § Anatomic Generate. Dc Si/Hcmate Ncrveo Organ. Lipsire, 1817. "" De Corporis Hurnaiii Gangliorum Fabricd atque nsu, Berolini, 1817.