OF THE NERVES IN GENERAL. 351: mcnt in number and diminish in volume, from the origin to the termination. 783. The nerves possess little or no elasticity. They present no sensible motion, whether of oscillation, or of vibration, when they are irritated in the living animal. The irritation of a nerve produces excruciating pains^ and excites convulsive contractions in the muscles. 784. The nerves are conductors of feeling and motion. They transmit the volitions, with incalculable velocity, from the nervous centre to the muscles, and conduct to the centre the sensations produced by the impression of external agents. Section and liga- ture of the nerves interrupt their functions, and render the parts situated beneath, incapable of feeling and motion. Irritation made above the interruption causes sensation of pain, similar to those which irritation of the extremities of the nerve would produce. Irritation applied below the interruption produces contraction, like those which would result from irritation of the origin of the nerve. 785. Since the time of Herophilus and Galen, endeavours have been made to discover whether there be particular nerves for feel- ing and others for motion. It was, in fact, soon found that there are sensorial nerves, as the first, the second pair, and the auditory nerve; nerves of motion, as the third, fourth, and sixth pairs, and hypoglossal nerve, &c.; and mixed nerves, as all the spinal nerves, which are in fact distributed to the skin and to the muscles of the trunk and members, and as the infra-occipital and trigeminal nerves. But paralyses and anesthesia?, which are sometimes ob- served united, and sometimes separated in the parts of the body to which the nerves that have double roots are distributed, led to the belief that these nerves were composed of distinct sensorial filaments and moving filaments. The experiments of Mr. Ch. Bell, those of M. Magendie, and my own, have clearly demon- strated that the posterior root of the spinal nerve is sensorial, and the anterior root motory. 786. The nerves are not entirely limited to the office of con- ductors ; they possess a proper activity, which manifests itself when they are separated from the nervous centre ; but this activi- ty is much increased by that of the spinal marrow, as that of the spinal marrow is, by the influence of the encephalon ; so that re- moval of the encephalon greatly diminishes the activity of the spinal marrow, removal of the spinal marrow greatly restricts that of the nerves, and the nearer to a muscle the nerve is removed, the more is the influence of the nervous power over its contraction diminished. 787- Have the nerves a power of formation or of regeneration such, that when cut across, their union possesses the texture and performs the functions of nerves ; and even such that after being divided with loss of substance, they are capable of being repro- duced ? These questions have much occupied the attention of physiologists, and especially of Fontana, Monro, Michaelis, Arnc-