44 INTRODUCTION. on the right side. The individuals in which this transposition oc- curs, are not, however, left-handed. The diseases which affect the symmetrical organs, and those which have their scat in the parts that do not possess symmetry, present remarkable differences. It has even been asserted, but from hypothetical views, that the two sides of the body are each more disposed for certain diseases.* -j- Comparisons have also been established, and resemblances searched for, between the upper and lower halves of the body. The resemblance that the limbs bear to each other, is evident: the shoulders and pelvis, the arm and leg, the hand and foot, are constructed on the same plan, and differ from each other, so far as the difference of their functions goes. As to the analogy that has been supposed to exist in man, as in the articulate animals, between different sections of his trunk, and between the limbs and jaws, it rests upon a comparison between objects which differ too much to admit comparison. Led by a forced resemblance to the radiated animals, some per- sons have sought in the fore part of the trunk for parts corres- ponding to the vertebral column, and these they have imagined to exist in the sternum. Observation here discovers no reasonable approximation except between the anterior and the posterior muscles of the vertebral column. Let us, therefore, relinquish comparisons which can lead to no useful result. 67. The human body, like that of the other vertebrate animals, is divided into the trunk and limbs. The trunk is the central and principal parts, that which contains the organs most essential to life, or the viscera. These parts are lodged in three cavities, the lower of which is the abdomen, and contains the organs of diges- tion, the urinary secretion and generation ; while the middle, which is the thorax, contains the organs of respiration and circulation; and the upper cavity, the head, communicating with the interior of the vertebral column, lodges the nervous centre and the organs of sense. It may already have been remarked how this distribu- tion of the viscera accords with their importance in the animal kingdom ; and it will be seen, as we proceed, that it is equally re- lative to the order of their development. Considered in its gene- ral constitution, the trunk, which is flattened from before back- wards, presents an anterior or sternal face, a posterior or dorsal face, and two sides. It also presents two extremities, the one superior or cephalic, the other inferior or pelvic. The limbs, which are jointed appendages, destined for motion, are distinguish- ed into superior or thoracic, and inferior or abdominal. Both kinds are divided by articulations into several parts. The differ- ent parts of the trunk and limbs are also subdivided into a certain number of regions, or distinct portions, which require considera- tion on account of the organs which arc situated in them. The " Sec Meblis, dc MorMs Jlominis diwtri ct sinistri. Gottingen, 1818. + I have two or three times in counting; the number of cases of ulcerated limbs occurring at one and the same time in a large hospital, observed that ulcers seem to happen moyt frequently on the left leg—K K.