OF THE ARTICULATIONS. QS3 called alternate, because the motions arc performed ill them only in two opposite directions. The rotatory diarthrosis, commissura troclwides of Fallopius, is that which allows only motions of rotation ; of which kind are the articulation of the atlas with the second vertebra, and that of the radius with the ulna. It is also called lateral ginglymus. Ginglymus,* properly so called* or the hinge joint, also called angular ginglymus, is the articulation in which there are only two opposite motions, of which kind is the elbow joint. In this species of diarthrosis, one of the bones commonly presents a pulley, and the other a corresponding surface. There are generally two lateral ligaments. If the motion of extension is not to go beyond the line of direction of the bones, these ligaments, in order to limit the motion, are placed nearer the plane of flexion than the opposite plane. G32. Accidental diarthrodial articulations are produced under two different circumstances, after fractures of which the pieces have not united, and after luxations which have not been reduced. Both are very complex productions. The first kind may be called supernumerary, the other supplementary articulations. 633. The supernumerary articulations^ have long been known. They occur after fractures in which the fragments have not beett brought together, and those of which the fragments have been fre- quently moved on each other. Sometimes also the defect of union depends upon a constitutional affection. The ends of the boiiesj which have a different configuration, and have become compact and closed as after amputation, are covered with a thin layer of imperfect or fibrous cartilage. They are covered and enveloped by a synovial membrane, surrounded by a fibrous capsule, gene- rally incomplete and with irregular ligamentous bands. This kind of articulation has been observed, with a great number of varia- tions, in almost all the long bones of the limbs, and several times in the lower jaw and ribs. 634i The supplementary articulations have also been often ob- served. They follow unreduced luxations, and especially those of the femur and humerus. MM. Foville and Pinel Grandchamp sent me an anatomical preparation which represents an articulation of this kind that had been formed after an unreduced luxation of the bones of the fore-arm behind the humerus. In the articulations of which we here speak, there occurs a de- pression in the point against which the head of the luxated bone has been placed. The circumference of this point is raised by an accidental ossification* Sometimes even there also occurs a circu- lar fibro-cartilaginous rim in it. This newly formed cavity is co- vered with an imperfect or fibrous cartilage. The head of the luxated bone is commonly flattened. The interior of the articula- tion is lined by a very distinct synovial membrane and moistened • L F. Isenflamm and Schmidt. Dc Ginglymo Erlangaj, 1785. f J. Salzmann. De Articul, AualogU, quce fracturis Ostium supervenient. Argen- tor, 1718—Langenbech. Uber die Bllduttg aider naturlichcr Gelenke nach Knoclten- bruchen, in der Neuen Bib!, fur die Chirurg. Gotting. 1815.