14 INTRODUCTION. aortic when it sends the blood to the whole body, and pulmonary when it sends it to the respiratory organ. It is double when there are two ventricles, which may be separate or connected. The heart is simple, destitute of auricle, and pulmonary, in all the articulate animals which are furnished with one. This is also the case in fishes, only that in them it has an auricle. It is simple, but aortic, in most of the mollusca; triple in the cephalopodous mollusca, in which there are two pulmonary ventricles and an aortic ventricle, separate and destitute of auricles. In all the class of reptiles, there is a single ventricle, more or less partitioned, which sends the blood in- to a single trunk, which is at once aortic and pulmonary. Most of these animals have two auricles ; the batrachia have only one. Lastly, in birds and mammifera, the heart is double, with two au- ricles and two ventricles adherent to each other, the one aortic and the other pulmonary. 20. Before the nutritious fluid is rendered fit for its office, it re- quires to be submitted to the action of the atmosphere in which the animal lives. In animals which have no circulation, the water acts at the surface of the body. Such appears to be the case in the in- fusoria, polypi and acalepha. The intestinal worms are equally destitute of respiratory organs. In another degree of organization, the air or water penetrates into all parts of the body by elastic canals called tracheae, and which are lined by prolongations of the skin. The echinodermata have aquiferous tracheae. In the insec- ta there are two longitudinal tracheae occupying the whole extent of the body, presenting at intervals centres from which proceed nu- merous branches, and which correspond to external apertures call- ed stigmata, for the entrance of the air. In the animals which have a circulation, some of the vessels carry the blood into an organ in which they are subdivided over a large surface of the external or internal skin. This surface is elevated and bears the name of bran- chia or gill, when the ambient element is water ; it is hollowed, and is called the lung, when that element is air. For the branchial or pulmonary respiration, there are in general organs of motion for placing the ambient fluid in contact with the organ. In the arach- nides, we find the transition of the disseminated respiration, which still exists in those which are furnished with tracheae, to thelocal re- spiration, which is performed in pulmonary bags. In the Crustacea in general, the respiratory organs are projecting branches possessed of various forms, which is also the case in most of the annelides. In the molluscous animals in general, numerous varieties occur in the organs of respiration. Some which respire air have a pulmonary cavity ; these are the pulmonary gasteropoda. Others have pro- jecting branchiae of various forms. Others, again, have their branchiae in a cavity into which the water has to be drawn. In the class of fishes, the respiration is braiichial. It is pulmonary in the other vertebrate animals. The respiration is partial, and the circulation simple, in reptiles, which have but one ventricle and one aorta, of which latter the