208 OF THE VEINS. or sinuses of the dura mater, there occur only some transverse fibres, which may be regarded as rudimentary valves. The valves are in general disposed in pairs placed alternately, ac- cording to the two opposite diameters of the vein. They are three and three in the great veins, as the crural and iliac. It is but seldom that they are seen quadruple, and very seldom or never quintuple. In the twigs which have a diameter of only half a line and under, they are single. There arc by no means valves at all the places where a twig joins a branch, or where a branch opens into a trunk. Nor do they occur everywhere at the same distance. They are riuwhere closer to each other than in the smallest veins. Valves are found in the veins of the extremities, more in the subcutaneous than in the deep veins, in those of the face, the neck, the tongue, the ton- sils, at the end of the cardiac vein, in the tcgumentary veins of the abdomen, in those of the testicle, penis, and clitoris, in the inter- nal and external iliac veins, sometimes in the renal veins, and rare- ly in the vena azygos. There are none in the enchephalic veins, those of the spine or diploe of the bones, in those of the lungs, the vena porta1, the um- bilical vein, the vena? cavse, unless at the mouth of the vena azygos, in the uterine veins, or in the median vein. In general, there are numerous valves in the superficial veins, fewer in the deep or intermuscular veins, and still fewer in the veins of the splanchnic cavities. They are numerous in the most declivous parts, and consequently in the lower limbs, less so in the upper limbs, and still less numerous in the head and neck. The valves, which are applied against the walls of the veiits when the course of the blood is free and easy, separate from them, close the vein, sustain the blood, and prevent its reflux towards the capillary vessels where it meets with obstacles in its passage. 447. The veins, like all the vessels, are surrounded by the cel- lular tissue of the parts in which they are placed, which forms a sheath for them. This sheath is loose around the trunks, but closer upon the branches. The sheath of the vena porta? is re- markable in the liver, where it is known by the name of capsule of Glisson. The outer membrane, properly so called, is thinner and less con- densed than that of the arteries, to which it bears a great resem- blance. The middle membrane is formed of fibres more extensive and softer than those of the arteries. These fibres appear nearly all longitudinal, when one looks upon the membrane between him and the light. Some of the inner fibres appear annular. But when one tries to separate the fibres of this membrane, the same diffi- culty is experienced in all directions. In the human species this membrane is much thicker in the system of the vena cava inferior than in the other. In general, also, it is thicker in the superficial than in the dccp-scatcd veins. The inner saphena vein has very