INTRODUCTION. 12 arc small appendages, which are named ciliae. The radiated ani- mals have the mouth surrounded by appendages, called tentacula, ■which are destined for motion and feeling. This is also the case with some mollusca which have tentacula possessed of sensibility, and other fleshy productions, called arms or feet, for motion. The Crustacea and insecta have antennae, which are jointed filaments, differing greatly in form, attached to the head, and appearing to he organs of sensation. This is also the case with their palpi, which occur equally in the arachnides. The lateral, paired appendages, essentially destined for motion, and which are called limbs or mem- bers when they are jointed, exist in a rudimentary form in the cir- ripeda and the setigerous annelides. They occur in great number in the myriapoda, and in considerable, but variable number, in the Crustacea. There are eight in the arachnides, and six in the true insecta, which, for the most part, have also wings to the number of four or two. In the vertebrate animals, there are never more than four limbs. 18. The organs of nutrition are greatly diversified. In the sim- plest animals, the infusoria, this function consists simply of an ab- sorption from the surface, the matter inhaled by which penetrates into all parts of the animal's body, and is immediately assimilated and afterwards excreted. This simplicity of organization is also observed in some intestinal worms and acalepha. In the next degree, there is an intestinal cavity formed in the substance of the body, and henceforth absorption takes place at two surfaces, and especially at the inner. This simple cavity occurs in some polypi. At a still higher stage, the cavity consists of a membranous bag, distinct from the mass of the body, formed by an internal membrane or skin, similar to the external skin, and conti- nuous with it. This kind of cavity first makes its appearance in certain polypi and acalepha, as well as in some intestinal worms. In other animals of the same classes, the gastric cavity has prolon- gations which extend into the mass of the body for the purpose of distributing nutriment to it. In some acalepha and intestinal worms, the stomach is wanting, and there are only ramified prolongations which open at the external surface. In all these first appearances of an intestinal cavity, the cavity is limited to an elongated bag, having a single opening. Several echinodermata and intestinal worms have a distinct intestinal canal, a mouth and an anus ; an arrangement which is henceforth observed in all the higher classes, in which the canal, more or less dilated or contracted, and exhibit- ing various forms, traverses the body. The existence of this canal shows itself at the same time with the cylindrical and elongated form of the body. The mouth presents several varieties, of which the principal are those of a simple orifice; an aperture furnished with muscles, and sometimes with hard parts, but disposed solely for suction ; an aperture furnished with muscles and hard parts for dividing the food.