20() 01-' THE VEINS. 443. The number of the veins is in general greater than that of the arteries. There are two venae cavae and one cardiac vein to correspond to the single trunk of the aorta. There are even four pulmonary veins to correspond to the single pulmonary artery and its two branches. But each of these venous divisions answers to the corresponding arterial branch. In almost the whole extent of the body there is a much greater number of subcutaneous veins than of subcutaneous arteries; and in the deep parts there are almost always two accompanying veins for a single artery. In the stomach, the spleen, the kidneys, the testicles, the ovaries and some other parts, the number of veins is equal to that of the arte- ries. In some parts even, the number of veins is less than that of the arteries, as, for example, in the umbilical cord, the penis, the clitoris, the gall-bladder, the surrenal capsules, &c.; but this is compensated by the difference of capacity. The size of the veins in general is in fact greater than that of the corresponding arte- ries. The sum of the veins, or their total capacity, is therefore great- er than that of the arteries. The difference has been variously es- timated : we can only say, with Haller, that the veins have, at least, double the capacity of the arteries ; but, besides the individ- ual, accidental, or temporary differences, and those which depend upon the kind of death, this continually varies with age. This difference also is not the same in all parts of the body. In the pulmonary system it does not exist, for the veins are there appar- ently equal in capacity to the arteries. This is also the case with the renal vessels. In the testicle, on the contrary, the veins are greatly superior to the arteries. 444. The situation of the veins is in general the same as that of the arteries, these two kinds of vessels accompanying each other in their course, and uniting at their termination. Almost everywhere, a trunk, a branch, or a twig of an artery, is accompa- nied by one or two veins. There are some exceptions however. Thus, in the skull, the spine, the eye, and the liver, the arteries and veins affect different situations and dispositions : the vena azygos, the trunk of the intercostal veins in the space measured by the pericardium and liver, is not accompanied by an artery, and this is also the case with the subcutaneous veins. 445. The veins commence by capillary or microscopic radicles, forming a continuation of the ramuscules of the arteries. These radicles are colourless or red, according as their diameter admits a single series of globules or several at once. In some places, as in the intestine, the lung, &c. the successive joinings of the radicles of veins correspond to and entirely resemble the divisions of the arterial ramuscules. In other places, the disposition is different. Without speaking of the erectile or cavernous tissue, in which the swelling and communication of the veins are extreme, in many other parts they affect different dispositions from those of the arte- ries. They form plexuses at the neck of the bladder, in the spine,