OF THE SYNOVIAL CAPSULES OF THE JOINTS. ed, but the mode of union is little known, there being no accurate facts recorded in the history of wounds of the joints and luxations relative to it. New synovial membranes arc sometimes formed, as is observed in false joints, after unreduced luxations ; in this case, which has been described by Dr. Thomson, and which I myself have observed, the remains of the old capsule and the cellular tissue together form a new membrane pretty similar to the first. After fractures that have not united, there in like manner exists, in the supernumerary articulations which succeed, a closed mem- V; brane, smooth internally, and containing a fluid more or less re- ' J sembling synovia. Dropsy of the joints constitutes hydrarthrosis. The synovia is fjr 1 commonly altered in various ways in this affection. 218. Inflammation produces the same alterations of tissue and f^e jl functions in these membranes as in the serous membranes in gene- ^ ral. They become a little thickened, acquire a red colour over a ■' l' greater or less extent, assume a covering of albuminous grains, and sometimes contract adhesions. This inflammation may terminate by resolution, and then leaves a stiffness depending upon the in jj| • thickening of all the neighbouring parts. The membrane itself 1 aial 11. also remains in general thicker. Effusions, whether of pure syno- ■ sew. 1 via, or of milky serum, or serum containing albuminous flakes, liculai; , or even of true pus, may result from this inflammation. The ad- /.'• hesions which supervene constitute one of the species of anchylosis, il' There are several varieties of this disease, as is well known; all of them depend upon the alteration of the synovial membrane, and *iiit sometimes of parts external to it. Thus in the false anchylosis, i there appear to be a thickening and induration of all the soft parts •m which surround the joints. Another kind, to which the epithet tfalse might be applied, were it worthy of being retained, is cha- i iracterized by adhesions of the synovial membrane. The articula- l tion then becomes an amphiarthrosis, and the diarthrodial surfaces l are united by synovial strings or laminae. These strings are some- : times so numerous as to represent a kind of cellulosity. The mo- I tions are more or less restricted, according to their number, length, l and extensibility. The thickening and induration of the soft parts (combine with this alteration, after which the parts never complete- Ily resume their motions. In the true anchylosis, not only are ad- 1 hesions established between the articular surfaces, but these sur- tfaces unite and become confounded together. A perfect continuity takes place between the bones, the compact and cartilaginous 1 laminae of which ultimately disappear, so that the spongy tissue of ; the one is continued into that of the other. It is with the syno- vial membrane that this change commences which we have found it necessary to mention here for that reason. Ulceration is not so common a termination of inflammation of the synovial membranes. 219- In white swellings, among which are included alterations of very diversified kinds, as inflammation, dropsy, diseases of tho cartilages, &c. there sometimes occurs an alteration peculiar to the serous membranes. It is a state in which these membranes are ! it the lines of nd of a m jlarlv in t(A buflicn. all*