69 ALTERATIONS OF THE ORGANIZATION. action, which establishes itself in the dead body, destroys all the combinations that were formed by the vital action, separates the molecules, brings them back to a more simple state of composition, resolves them into gas, vapours, putrilage, and earth, and thus re- stores them to the general mass of inert bodies. Besides the ces- sation of life, putrefaction still requires as conditions, the contact of air, and a certain degree of heat and moisture. The degree and combination of these conditions give rise to great variation in the phenomena of decomposition. 127. In general, it commences as soon as the coagulation and stiffness cease. From this period, the fluids begin to decompose, and the soft parts relax and gradually soften. The dead body, which at first exhales a vapour whose loss diminishes its weight, now emits a disagreeable smell. The blood and other humours transude through their reservoirs, and impregnate the walls and neighbouring parts with their colour and smell; whence the red colour of the veins and surrounding cellular tissue, the spots im- pressed upon the stomach and intestines by the liver, the spleen, and the gall-bladder, the sero-"sanguinolent infiltrations in the cel- lular tissue and serous membranes, their assuming a rose colour, and various tints of red and brown, and the colouring of the pa- rietes of the abdomen with bluish or greenish hues. The hu- mours of the eye transude; whence the flattening of that organ by the sinking of the cornea; and by mixing with the corpuscles which float in the eye, they form an opake covering to it. At this first period of putrefaction, the muscles redden litmus paper. 128. Putrefaction, which, in reference to the regions, generally commences with the abdomen, on account of the excrementitious matters there accumulated ; which, in reference to the organs, commences with the softest and those most imbued with fluids, as the encephalic mass; and which also first attacks the parts dis- tended or altered by disease or the kind of death, soon becomes general. The epidermis separates, and is raised by collections of brownish sanies; the flesh, impregnated by the fluids, becomes glutinous, greenish, pulpy and ammoniacal; and emits a putrid, nauseous odour. 129. At length the texture entirely disappears ; the soft parts, becoming confounded with the fluids, are reduced to semi-fluid putrilage, mixed with bubbles of gas, and diffusing the most taint- ed odour, and the most pernicious vapour. Soon after, nothing remains but the bones, which in their turn become friable and pulverulent, and leave but a very slight earthy residuum. 130. When the conditions of putrefaction are favourable, as after certain diseases, and in warm or moist seasons or places, it commences almost at the moment of death, and runs through its periods with the greatest rapidity. In cases the reverse of this it is elow, and may be protracted for several years. It may even be in- definitely suspended, or greatly modified in its phenomena. Thus,