>>> eart tk toy*. > >>>• led 77,"J"** I*-ft "> tne doctnnes ^"pinionshaveqven ' ident that durin^con- ^ °Wat attraction insider the folded tbm : the nen'ous filaments lerrous influence must1 I of contraction. Simons sahstm of act there as any other is, the nerves *odd' &c\es that of irri- swhiVitethe lot ion would not manifest rritabilirv its source in j bypotheas, the nerves. —n then, force ortogi« art • ^ their the •HP' j;.nni OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GKNKItAL. 301 the muscles of the abdomen, the buccinator muscle, &c.; or they may be equally mobile, as in the sphincters, the annular fibres of the stomach, intestines, &c.; 2dly, One extremity of the fibres in action is more fixed than the other; so that the more mobile is drawn towards the other, as in most of the muscles of the limbs ; as, in particular, in the muscles of the fingers and toes; or one extremity is absolutely fixed, and the other absolutely mobile, as in the muscles of the eye, the velum palati, &c. 685. The muscular actions which take place naturally in the body may be divided into two classes, voluntary and involuntary. The voluntary actions are those of all the muscles subservient to standing and the motions of the skeleton, the motions of the la- rynx and those of the organs of sensation. All these muscles re- ceive their nerves directly from the spinal marrow. The involuntary actions may be subdivided into three orders. Some of them are produced by stimuli acting through a thin mem- brane which immediately covers the muscles. These are the mo- tions of the alimentary canal, the urinary bladder, the heart, &c. Others are produced by stimuli of a similar kind, but which are propagated by means of association with many other muscles. Of this kind are the motions of deglutition, respiration, coughing, sneezing, faecal excretion, emission of the spermatic fluid and urine, parturition, &c. The others are the motions of emotion or pas- sion, as laughing, crying, &c. Of the actions or motions of this second class some have been considered as semi-voluntary, or as constituting an intermediate class of mixed motions. It is, in fact, very difficult to establish a perfectly distinct line of demarcation between the voluntary mo- tions, or those perfectly subjected to the will, and the involuntary motions; for, on the one hand, there are few functions over which the will, and especially the passions, have not some control, and, on the other hand, many voluntary motions become through ha- bitude nearly involuntary ; such, for example, are the motions of the limbs, which take place without consciousness and without the will during sleep ; those of the eyelids, which take place without the will and even against it, when a foreign body is brought near the eye; such also, on the other hand, is the difficulty or impos- sibility of moving the upper and lower limbs simultaneously, or in moving the eyes in an opposite direction to that which they com- monly follow. Accidental irritation of the muscles, nerves, or common centre, sometimes renders the contraction of the external muscles entirely involuntary. Other affections render them im- moveable in spite of the will. As to the influence of the will upon the motions considered as involuntary, it is evident upon those of respiration, vomiting, and rumination. It would even appear that it may be sometimes extended to the motions of the heart, those of the uterus, iris, and skin. It is true that the influence of the passions upon the will itself must not be forgotten. The motions which have been considered as mixed are especially