DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFERENCES OF ORGANIZATION. 61 c colouring of the blood, as well as of the other parts, takes place by little and little. There is at first no determinate texture in the organs; there are not even globules at the commencement. At a later period, the entire mass of the body appears globular or granulated; afterwards, the fibres, lamina}, and vessels become distinct. AH the organs are not developed at the same time ; nor are all those of the same kind or system formed together. The external form or configuration is determined before the con- sistence, texture, and composition are fixed; for, as is seen in the fruit of the almond, which already has its form, and which is as yet but a glairy fluid which is successively to acquire the consis- tence, texture, and composition which are proper to it; so also are the nervous and osseous systems already in part possessed of their configuration, while they are yet in a state of fluidity. The cellular tissue and the vessels permeable to fluids diminish from the commencement to the end of life. It is this change especially, which goes on after the period of growth has terminated, that appears essentially to constitute the period of the deterioration of the organism, and of old age. 106. The organs are formed by isolated parts, which afterwards unite. Thus the spinal marrow is at first a double cord; the intestine and the cavity of the trunk, which are at first open ante- riorly, afterwards close, which is also the case with the spinal canal. The vessels are at first isolated vesicles, which elongate and communicate with each other in the mass of the body. The kidneys are at first multiple, and at length unite into a single body. The bones, which in the cartilaginous state elongate by a kind of vegetation, ossify at a later period, in separate pieces, which ultimately unite, &c. There remain in certain places traces of this formation, more in some, in others less. Thus the raphe of the skin, the median suture of the frontal bone, the median line of the uterus, &c. are sufficiently apparent traces of a union of two similar halves. On the other hand, these traces are generally entirely effaced in the upper part of the sternum, and the body of the vertebras. 107. All the phases through which the human organism passes correspond to permanent states in the animal kingdom. We might here accumulate proofs of this important proposition, by comparing the human fetus at different degrees of development with the degrees of organization of the animal scale; but we shall content ourselves with a few examples. The embryo is at first no- thing but a small bud or germ placed upon a vesicle; such are some of the most simple worms. At a later period, it is a small vermiform body without distinct limbs or head: this is the case with the annclides. After this, the limbs are equal and the tail protrudes ; which is the case with most quadrupeds. In the ner- vous system, the nerves with their ganglia are first seen to make their appearance. This is the case with all the invertebrate ani- mals that arc furnished with nerves. At a later period, there are