OF THE VEINS, alteration. It consists of a cavity formed by the outer membrane dilated and strengthened by the cellular membrane and the other surrounding parts, lined at the anterior by a membrane thin and smooth in some points, bearing a great resemblance to the inner membrane of the arteries. This cavity communicates with that of the vessel by an aperture, regular or not, formed in the inner and middle membranes. It is filled with coagulated blood, and with more or less firm layers of fibrine, variously altered, and perhaps mixed with organizable matter, produced by the walls of the cavi- ty. The blood in passing along the canal of the artery, continu- ally penetrates into the accidental cavity. Sometimes the aneurism increases indefinitely, and causes death by pressing upon the neighbouring organs and disturbing the functions. Sometimes it bursts externally or in the interior, and destroys by hemorrhage or effusion. At other times it becomes inflamed, suppurates and opens like a vast abscess, in which case there is sometimes hemorrhage, and sometimes on the contrary, the artery having been obliterated by the inflammation, a cure may take place. Sometimes the inflammation terminates by gangrene of the tumour, and one or other of the above-mentioned effects may be the result of the separation of the slough. Lastly, at other times, the circulation gradually slackens in the artery af- fected by aneurism, and becomes, at the same time, more and more active in the collateral passages, whence there finally results obliteration of the affected arteries up to the branches in the vicin- ity of the tumour, and the gradual absorption of the latter. 436. The arteries, whether under inflammation, or affected by an accidental production of their walls, or without apparent cause, in place of becoming dilated and bursting, sometimes contract, and even become obliterated spontaneously. The aorta has thus been found contracted and even entirely obliterated. The total obliteration of the right pulmonary artery has also been observed. I have once seen obliteration of the carotid artery, several times contraction of the brachial trunk, and often contraction and ob- literation of the crural trunk and its branches. This is the ordi- nary cause of the gangrene of the toes, feet and legs, in old peo- ple ; the change happening in a part, and at a period when the arterial twigs themselves affected by induration, are no longer capable of the rapid augmentation necessary for the establishment of a collateral circulation. THIRD SECTION. OF THE VEINS. 437. The Veins * are the vessels which carry back the blood from all parts of the body to the heart. • Diatribe Anatomico-physiologica dc StrucUira at que Vita Vcnarum, Auciore, H. Marx. 8vo. Carlsruhce, 1819.