OF THE FLAT WOItMS. 381 II.—Of flat woiims. 852. The Flat Worms are those whose soft and depressed hody is furnished with sucker pores at its lower surface or extremities; the Enfozoa trematoda of Rudolphi; and those whose body is elongated, continuous or articulated, and the head furnished with fossilise, suckers, and one or more naked or armed proboscides: the Entoxoa cestoidea of Rudolphi. Both kinds are destitute of intestinal canal, and furnished with ramified ovaries. This order comprehends, in the human body, the genera Taenia, Distoma, and Polystoma. 853. The genus Taenia has the body greatly elongated, flat, and articulated, and the head furnished with two or four small suckers. Two species are met with in man. The broad or unarmed tapeworm, Taenia lata, Botrioeephalus latus (Bremser. Rud.), has the head nearly square, two naked sucker fossetes, the head oblong, as well as the fossetes, which are marginal, the neck almost wanting, the anterior joints in the form of ruga?, the next broad and short, and the last elongated. Its length is twenty feet and upwards. This species is common in Switzerland and Russia, very rare in England, Holland and Ger- many. It is not met with in dead bodies. The solitary or armed tapeworm Taenia solium, also vulgarly, but erroneously named the solitary worm, has the head furnished with four sucking oscula, and in their centre a blunt proboscis, armed with hooks. The head is hemispherical and distinct; the neck is enlarged anteriorly. The anterior joints are very short, the next elongated, the last longer, all of them obtuse, each fur- nished with a marginal pore, alternating vaguely from side to side. Its length is from five to ten feet and upwards. This species is common in England, Holland and Germany. It is sometimes met with in dead bodies. Both species are met with in France, but especially the second. They both inhabit the intestinal canal, particularly the small intestine.* 854. The Distoma or Fasciola has the body soft and depressed, with two solitary pores, the one anterior, the other ventral. The Hepatic Distoma, D. hepaticum, which has the form of an oval leaf, occurs in the gall-bladder of man and many other mam- mifera, but especially the sheep. The Polystoma, Heasathyridkim of Treutler, has the body de- pressed, with six anterior pores, a ventral pore, and a posterior pore. The polystoma of the fat, P. pinguicola, which is truncat- ed anteriorly and pointed behind, has been met with in a tumour of the human ovary. The polystoma of the veins, P. venarum, appears to be an external worm. (457-) • See a memoir of mine, on tlie occurrence of taenia solium in a numerous body of men previously quite healthy, in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for July, 1821. The generation of the taenia in these men seemed to be the direct re- sult of the use of unwholesome animal food.—K. 8