OF Tin: SEROUS MEMBRANES; M. Beclard. R- K. 90 forms at the truncated extremity of the hone, which ultimately closes. The marrow is destroyed in sequestra, and does not appear to form again after their removal or exit: at least it has not been seen to be reproduced in this case. Perhaps the state of the parts has not been examined at a sufficient distance of time after the issue of the disease. The medullary membrane is susceptible of inflammation. It is probably to this inflammation and its consequences that internal ne- crosis are to be attributed. It is equally probable that osteocopic pains depend upon the inflammation. In rachitis there is observed a peculiar induration of the medullary membrane, which has not been described. Of the affections peculiar to this membrane, spina ventosa is one of the most remarkable. According to my observations and those of several others, there are at least two, and even three distinct species of this disease. The great development of the bone de- pends upon the extraordinary growth of the altered medullary mem- brane, but sometimes the alteration of the marrow consists in a car- cinomatous degeneration, a true soft cancer; sometimes the tu>- mour is fibrous and cartilaginous ; lastly, in some cases, and es*- pecially in children, the bone, enlarged in its middle, contains a very vascular red substance, the nature of which has not been well determined. This variety is especially observed in the bones of the metacarpus, metatarsus, fingers and toes. Spina ventosa par- ticularly affects the long bones of the limbs. In the femur, it is generally the lower part of the bone that is diseased ; in the hume- ri*, it is the upper part. I have removed the upper third of the fibula of a young woman, in a case of spina ventosa which had in- creased the head of that bone to nearly the size of the patient's fist.* Tumours of this kind have been described by Vigarous, under the name of bony steatomata, and by Astley Cooper, under that of medullary exostoses. CHAPTER II, OF THE SEHOUS MEMBRANES.- 179. The Membranes (Membranes) are soft, broad and thin parts, which line the cavities, envelope the organs, enter into the composition of a great number of the latter, and of themselves con- stitute some. They differ greatly from each other in their texture, composition, action, &c. 180. The serous membranes (Membrance serosee, vel succin- • It is to be regretted that Mr. Beclurd has not given the details of this very in- teresting operation : an attempt to remove the head of the fibr.la for a small osseous growth completely failed in the hands of a very expert, surgeon, and the patient lost his life in the attempt. I do not think that the head of the fibula was removed by