OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. S93 result from a linear series of more opaque globules, connected by a paler medium, but that there is nothing whatever to indicate that these globules are vesicles ; that during the contraction of the muscles wrinkles are seen to form, and these flcxuosities are found to become obliterated during relaxation, but that no change what- ever takes place in the figure of the globules ; that in insects, which have no vessels, there are yet muscular fibres, which, therefore, cannot be a continuation of the vessels ; that injection may, indeed, swell out the muscles by being infiltrated between the fibres, but that it does not penetrate them; that the alleged transverse fibres, torsions, spirals, &c. have never been seen, but only supposed, for the benefit of certain hypotheses respecting muscular action ; last- ly, that the muscular fibre, which differs essentially in its organic characters and vital phenomena, from the cellular tissue, the ner- vous tissue, and that of the vessels, cannot be likened to these tis- sues. Mascagni has renewed and modified one of these hypothe- ses, by considering the primary cylinders of the muscles as formed of absorbent vessels filled with contractile glutinous substance in the state of life, and continually renewed by the circulation. No- thing demonstrates this to be the case, or that the fibres are hol- low. It is much more probable that they are solid. 660. The muscles are enveloped by the cellular tissue which forms membranes or sheaths for them. This is also the case with respect to their bundles and the divisions of these bundles; only, in proportion as the parts are enveloped are of less size, the cellu- lar tissue forms thinner and softer envelopes. The fasciculi are enveloped and connected together by scarcely perceptible layers of this tissue. Lastly, the primary fibres are united together, in each fasciculus, by prolongations of its envelope, which are so thin and soft as entirely to elude observation. The cellular envelopes are perceived on separating the bundles and fasciculi from each other as well as on cutting a muscle across. Adipose tissue also occurs around the muscles, in the intervals between their bundles, and even sometimes between the fasciculi. 661. The blood vessels of the muscles, which have been well described by Albinus and Haller, and figured by Prochaska and Mascagni, are very abundant, although less so than in the mucous membrane. Their quantity bears proportion to the size of the muscles. The internal muscles, however, are more vascular than the others, and some of them greatly more so. The veins, as in most of the parts, have a greater capacity than the arteries. Both communicate with the vessels of the tegumentary membranes, wherever the muscles are near them. Both, after dividing first in the cellular membrane, and there presenting numerous anasto- moses, penetrate, under various angles,- between the different bun- dles, and there divide again, to penetrate between the fasciculi and into the intervals of the fibres, always following the cellular envelopes, and continually presenting new divisions, and new anas- tomoses. In their whole course, these vessels accompany the di-