OF THE CAPILLAIIY VESSELS. 177 S80. Although the walls of all the vessels are permeable, yet this property is more especially remarkable in the smallest vessels. They are possessed of great extensibility and contractility. The irritability goes on increasing, and the elasticity diminishing in the vessels in proportion as they approach their terminations, the capillary vessels being the most irritable.* Their contractility is put into play, whether by local and direct agents, or by the ner- vous system. 381. It is in this part of the vascular system that the most im- portant phenomena of the organism, or at least of the vegetative functions, take place. The capillary circulation, that is to say, the passage of the blood through the capillary vessels, is of all the parts of the circulation that which, without being independent of the ac- tion of the heart, is yet less subjected to it. It is the point of the circle at which the motion of the blood is slowest; that at which the blood, divided into minute threads, has the most points of con- tact with the walls of the vessels, and is more submitted to the nervous action. The blood passes through the capillary system in regular order, passing directly from the arteries towards the veins. If it meet an obstacle, numerous anastomotic passages are open to it, and permit it to follow its course. But this system, as well as others, may be the seat of congestions, irritations, and constric- tions, which change in it the ordinary course of the fluids. Thus, heat accompanied by moisture, applied for some minutes to the hind leg of a frog, determines a dilatation of the capillary vessels, a local retardation of the circulation, a congestion, in a word, which gives to the parts previously white, a very red colour. The same thing takes place, through various causes, in the mammifera, and in man. The application of cold, or of a diluted acid, produces effects of an opposite nature. Mechanical, or chemical irritation, produces at first the latter effect, and afterwards, by a kind of at- traction, causes a concentric afflux of the fluids, which, in many vessels, then flow in an opposite direction to the natural course of the blood. The blood becomes venous in the general capillary system, and arterial in the pulmonary. 382. The capillary blood-vessels, such as they have been above described, are not equally abundant, and have not the same volume in all parts. The sum of the vessels of each part may be estimated by the redness which it acquires in cases of congestion or inflam- mation, as well as when it is injected. This latter means is even preferable. The most perfect injections that have been made are those of Ruysch, Albinus, Lieberkuhn, Barth, Bleuland, Soem- mering and Prochaska. The injections of Ruysch, by filling the smallest vessels, gave * Whytt. Physiological Essays, &c. Edinb. 1761. H. van den Bosh, Uber dat Muikeluicrmogcnder Haargef 'dsicheu. Monast. 1786. N