160 OF THE MAIRS. during itself from the surface of the skin into the entrance of the bulb, is reflected upon the base of the hair, and unites and is con- founded with its surface. Accordingly the hair holds very firmly to the skin, and cannot be detached from it without painfully pull- ing it. The separation of the hairs in the dead body is effected by the same causes as those which detach the epidermis and nails from the skin. 339. The shaft of the hair consists of a horny, transparent sheath, nearly colourless, and an internal coloured substance, which has been more generally described as being formed of a certain number of filaments, from five to ten, moistened with a colouring substance. Others have represented it as a spongy substance, like that with which the shaft of the feathers is filled ; while others have asserted that the internal filaments are vascular. It has also been alleged that the hairs consist of a homogeneous horny filament, which is not probable. Mascagni says they are entirely formed of absor- bent vessels. It appears on the contrary that, like the epidermis and horny matter, the hairs are entirely destitute of vessels and nerves, and that they merely consist of a prolongation of two layers of the coipus mucosum, the coloured layer and the horny layer, to which the epidermis also unites itself. 340. The colour of the hairs is generally conformable to that of the skin and eyes. In individuals who have coloured or white spots upon the skin, the hairs are coloured in the former, and white or colourless in the latter. They are very strong, and support con- siderable weights without breaking. They are easily split or torn in the longitudinal direction. They are highly hygroscopic, being enlarged and elongated by humidity, and shortened by dryness. Saussure was the first who took advantage of this circumstance for hygrometical purposes. They are idio-electric. They depolarize light, and, according to Dr. Brewster, possess perfectly neutral axes, they being parallel and perpendicular to the axis of the hair. According to Hatchett, continued boiling removes from the hairs a little gelatin, and the remaining substance, which has lost a part of the elasticity and tenacity of the hair, has all the proper- ties of coagulated albumen. They resist putrefaction in a high degree. Their colour at first alters, but the horny matter long remains untouched. M. Vauquelin found that they melt by de- coction in Papin's digester, that they also dissolve in water con- taining four hundredth parts of caustic potash, and that all the acids act upon them. According to that celebrated chemist, they are composed of an animal matter which forms their basis, a little white concrete oil, a blackish oil, iron, oxide of manganese, phos- phate of lime, carbonate of lime, silica and sulphur. 341. They are not possessed of irritability or sensibility, but their power of formation or of vegetation is very active. The motions which the hairs may perform are communicated to them by the subcutaneous muscles, and by the contraction of the skin itself. The very coarse hairs or prickles of certain animals.