INTRODUCTION. 36 others two fore feet, others two hind ones, and others none at alL In some, the body is scaly, in others naked. Some are piscifornt in their foetal state, and undergo a true metamorphosis when they pass into the perfect state. The organs of digestion are greatly varied. The circulation is simple, and the respiration partial, that is to say, the heart, which varies considerably, sends the blood in- to an artery of which a branch only goes to the lung, whence there results, that in each course of the blood a portion of that fluid only is submitted to the action of respiration. Their lungs have the form of bags, or at least have large cells. They can suspend their respiration without stopping the circulation. Their blood is cold. The quantity of respiration is not the same in this class, the pulmonary artery not bearing in all the same proportion to the aortic trunk which furnishes it. They have a trachea and a la- rynx, although they have not all a voice. The females have a double ovary and two oviducts. Some males have the penis bifurcate, and some are destitute of that organ. None of them sit upon their eggs. Their muscles have an irritability which remains for a long time after their separation from the nervous system, and even from the rest of the body. Their sensations are rather ob- tuse. They have nostrils which traverse the face; but their ear is not complete, being limited to the vestibule which contains soft bones, the semicircular canals, and, in some, a rudiment of coch- lea. There also occur rudimentary bones of the tympanum, under the skin. The crocodiles alone have an external aperture for the ear. The brain, which is rather small, may be removed, as well as- the head, without causing the motions to cease. Many species re- main torpid during a great part of the year. The reptiles are divided into several families, according to dif- ferences in their organization, which are very marked. The chelonia, or tortoises, have a heart with two auricles, which receive each a different kind of blood, and a single ventricle, hav- ing two unequal cells communicating with each other, in which the two kinds of blood are mixed. These animals are enveloped by an upper shell or scutum formed by the ribs and the plates of the vertebrae, and a breast plate formed by the sternum, both covered by the skin, and a horny or scaly substance transuded by the skin. The air for respiration is drawn in by the nostrils, and pushed in- to the larynx by a kind of deglutition. The male has a simple channelled penis. The female deposits eggs which have a very hard shell. They live without eating for months, and even years, and survive decapitation for several weeks. The sauria or lizards, crocodiles, &c. have the heart as in the former division. The ribs are moveable for respiration, and the lung is of great extent. The eggs have a more or less hard en- velope. These animals are furnished with teeth, claws, and scales. The penis is single or double. The ophidia, or snakes, have two auricles in their heart, and arc destitute of feet. Some of them are venomous. Those which are