OF THE FIBR.O-CAHTIL ACINOUS TISSUE. destructive action of pulsatile tumours more than the bones and cartilages. In aneurisms of the aorta, the vertebrae are worn and destroyed before the fibro-cartilage which separates them. This property is a consequence of their elasticity. The vital properties of the fibro-cartilages are obscure, like those of the ligamentous tissue in general. , 535. In their formation, several of these parts pass through the fibrous, state ; others pass directly from the mucous state to the fibro-cartilaginous state. It is only accidentally, and in a variable manner, that the permanent fibro-cartilages become bony in old age. This, however, happens more frequently to them than to the ligaments, but less frequently than to the cartilages. 536. The temporary fibro-cartilages have for their use to serve as a type or mould to bones. Those which are permanent some- times form flexible, elastic, and very firm bonds, and sometimes serve to facilitate slidings, by the consistency which they give to the surface. - 537- The morbid states of the fibro-cartilages are little known. They unite again after being divided, as is seen after the operation of symphyseotomy. Their accidental production is not of very rare occurrence. The centre of an intervertebral ligament may be taken as the type of the species, and as an object of comparison. The accidental fibro- cartilages are, in fact, fibrous, like the ligaments, of a milky white like the cartilages, pliant, moist, and elastic. According to their form, connexion, and uses, the accidental fibro-cartilages may be divided into two kinds. Some of them are means of union of cer- tain fractures which have been consolidated, whether on account of motions, like those of the neck of the femur, the patella and others, or on account of an extensive loss of substance in one of the bones of the fore-arm, leg, metatarsus, metacarpus, skull, &c. places where the fragments cannot be brought together, other fibro-carti- lages form on the end of amputated bones, the surfaces of super-" numerary articulations, upon and around the surface of supple- mentary articular cavities, and in some false anchyloses. Form- less fibro-cartilages occur in some compound tumours of the thy- roid body, in certain cysts, and in some cicatrices, especially those which sometimes take place in the lungs, in consequence of the evacuation of the tubercles. Plates of the same kind are found at the surface of the spleen. The fibrous bodies of the uterus are sometimes soft and pulpy at the centre, like the intervertebral li- gaments. Lastly, there are sometimes formed regular fibro-carti- lagiiious masses, of a globular form, lying loose in the serous ca- vities in which they have penetrated. Dr. Trouve, of Caen, gave me a tumour of this kind, of the size of a nut, which was found along with another of the same nature in the peritoneal cavity. This tumour, which is distinctly fibrous at the exterior, is soft like the intervertebral ligaments, towards the centre, and there contains a bone of the size of a small pea.