8 INTRODUCTION. in the organs, in which it constitutes the cellular tissue; and a substance formed into globules, which are free and swimming hi the blood, and fixed in the organs, in which they constitute the muscular fibre and the nervous substance. The chemical compo- sition of the animal body is more complicated than that of the ve- getable, and consists of more volatile elements. Azote enters into it as an essential part, and is added to the other general elements of organization. Lime is the earthy element that exists most ge- nerally in it. 12. Tne general organic phenomena, nutrition and generation, occur in animals, but in them are modified by the phenomena pe- culiar to these beings. Nutrition, in place of resulting from ex- ternal absorption alone, results at the same time, and chiefly, from an internal absorption which is performed in their intestinal cavity. The nutritious fluid obtained in the intestine is submitted to the action of the atmosphere. There results from this respiration a production of water and carbonic acid, which is the reverse of what takes place in vegetables. Besides this, the nutritious fluid has to be continually freed from superabundant matters by the secretions. These take place at the external and internal surfaces, and are sometimes performed by vessels merely spread out upon broad sur- faces, which allow the secreted fluid to perspire. Sometimes the fluid oozes from the bottom of the small cavities formed in the skin or mucous membrane; while in other places, the circulatory vessels communicate with proper vessels or ramified excretory ducts, which are also formed by the envelope of the body, and which pour out the secreted fluid. Of the fluids which result from these various secretions, some are used in the performance of functions, while others are rejected as superfluous matters, forming a kind of depuration. The nutritious fluid is continually renewed by the intestinal absorption, is kept in a fit state by respiration and the secretions, makes its way into all parts of the body, and there effects nutrition, a wonderful operation, in which it is de- composed in such a manner that in each part a portion of the blood becomes solid, and forms part of an organ; while, at the same time, and in all parts of the body, a portion of the organs becomes fluid, and enters into the general mass of the circulation. Generation, or the production of a new being, is so diversified in its modes that it presents no character peculiar to animals, and common to them all. The separation of the sexes, which is sub- ordinated to motion, is in fact neither peculiar nor common to the animal kingdom. Animals also possess, although in a less degree than vegetables, the faculty of reproducing, by a kind of vegeta- tion, certain of their parts when they have been removed. 13. Muscular motion, sensation, and nervous action, give in some degree a new life to animals ; and these functions are dis- tinguished by the name of animal life, in opposition to the other functions, which are named organic or vegetative life. The im- pression made by external agents upon the organs of sensation,