OF THE IIA IKS. car, those of the axilla, pubis, organs of generation and anus, and of the rest of the body, begin to make their appearance. After the adult period and in old age, the hairs become white and gene- rally fall off. In the female sex, the hairs of the head are more numerous and especially longer. There are generally no hairs on the face or around the anus, and those on the rest of the body are liner and more scattered. After the period of fecundity, the beard is some- times developed in considerable quantity. In general, women are less subject to baldness than men. The races of the human species present differences with respect to the hair which have been already pointed out. (§§ 112—117.) Individuals also present numerous differences of which some re- late to the colour, the shades of which vary greatly, others to the size, the length, and the thickness of the hair. Withoff found that in a portion of the skin a quarter of a square inch in extent there were 147 black, 1^2 brown, and 182 white hairs. Parts greatly resembling hairs occur in certain mammifera, in which they constitute prickles. They are horny sheaths, coloured, hard, and pointed, containing in their interior a white spongy sub- stance. Of this kind are the prickles of the porcupine. Common hairs seem to consist principally of horny matter. 344. Accidental hairs occur on various parts of the skin and mucous membrane, as well as in cysts. There even existed a po- pular error among the ancients, to which credit was given by Plu- tarch and Pliny, and which was, that the heart had been seen covered with hairs. Homer, according to some, has even spoken of the hairy heart of Achilles, but it would appear to be the breast of his hero that he had so characterized. As to the other facts it would appear, according to Senac's remark, that they were merely hearts covered with accidental cellular tissue that had given rise to them. The accidental hairs of the skin are those which occur on coloured spots or on parts of the skin thicker than the rest of that membrane. They have been seen to acquire a great development on parts of the skin that had been previously inflamed. Hairs have been seen growing on various parts of the mucous membrane. More commonly they have been found free in the cavities lined by that membrane or ejected externally, whether by themselves or forming part of concretions. Although some of these facts may be perfectly authentic, it ought not to be forgotten that hairs may be swallowed or introduced by other means. The hairs of cysts, whether cutaneous or mucous, are sometimes inserted and some- times free, and in both cases generally mixed with fat or sebaceous matter. Those which are inserted in cysts of the ovary are com- monly upon parts of these cysts evidently cutaneous. As to those of wens of the eyebrow and cranium, &c. these cysts appear to me to be only sebaceous follicles, and the hairs which they contain only hairs of the skin, which in place of directing themselves to