'288 OF THE WUSCULAK SYSTEM. The proportions which the limbs bear to the trunk and its dif- ferent parts, or those of the limbs to each other, also present nu- merous individual varieties, determined by those of the bones. This is also the case with the general configuration and symmetry of the body, their variations being almost all determined by those of the skeleton. 648. The osseous system terminates those which have for their basis the mucous substance or the cellular tissue variously modified. The tissues which remain to be described are, on the contrary, es- sentially formed of globules united by the same substance- CHAPTER IX. OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM. 649. The Muscular System,* Systema musculare, comprehends all the organs formed of long, parallel fibres, reddish in the warm- blooded animals, soft, irritable, and contractile, which are named muscular. These organs produce all the great motions which take place in the living body. The name muscle, musculus, mus, /xCf, from pfoiv, to contract, indicates this property, the muscles in fact being the organs of motion. 650. It may perhaps appear surprising, but is nevertheless true that the first anatomists, Hippocrates and Aristotle, were unac- quainted with the muscles, and especially with their uses. The anatomists of the Alexandrian school knew these organs, and have named some of them. Galen had a pretty correct general know- ledge of them. He represents the muscle as formed by the nerve and by the ligament divided into fibrils, forming a tissue which he calls stcebe, filled up by the flesh. He supposes the muscles pos- sessed of a tonic faculty, or contractile power, and in a state of elastic tension, inherent in their tissue, and independent of life. Motion would then depend upon the voluntary relaxation of the antagonist muscles. In his time there was also admitted a volunT tary contraction quicker and more extensive than this contraction by elasticity. At the period of the renewal of science, myology was in the very imperfect state in which Galen had left it. It owed considerable improvements to Jacques Dubois (Sylvius). He gave names to most of the muscles, a thing which had been pre- viously done only with reference to a very small number, Vesafius, * W. G. Muys, hivettigatio Fabricce, qua: in partibus Mmculos componeniibus extat, diss. i. ; Dc Carnis Musculosas Fibrarum Carnearum Slructura, &c. Lugd. Bat. 17 H, 4to, clij. and 432 p.—-Procliaska, Dc Came Muscu/ari Traciutut Auat. Phyt. Vienna?, 1778; et in Op. Min. pars i. Vienna;, 1820 F. Kibes, Diction*, des Sc. Med, article Muscle, Musculairc, and Myologic,