INTRODUCTION. 20 this organ. The vermes and part of the annelides are also desti- tute of it, and in the other annelides it is merely rudimentary, ex- isting under the form of a small black dot. Those of the articu- late, which are furnished with feet, viz. the Crustacea, arachnitles, and insects, are all furnished with eyes, which may be of two kinds, more or less numerous, and always symmetrical; simple eyes, of which the cornea has only one facette, the iris a single aperture, and the optic nerve a single filament; and compound eyes, having se- veral facettes, with a corresponding number of pupils and fila- ments of the optic nerve. Sometimes the eyes are pediculate or placed upon articulated appendages. The acephalous mollusca are destitute of eyes ; most of the gasteropodous species have these or- gans, but very small and rudimentary, and placed cither upon the head itself, or upon the posterior tcntacula. The cephalopodous mollusca have two large eyes covered by the skin, which in this place is transparent. Among the vertebrate animals there are only a few species that are destitute of eyes. 28. The nervous system is not known, and does not appear to exist, in the infusory animals. The first traces of it are perceived in the radiated animals. The hydrae, among the polypi, have mi- croscopic globules in their substance, whose nature is little known ; but in the asteriae and holothurhe there are ganglia disposed in a circular manner around the mouth, communicating with each other by soft filaments, and sending out others in a radiating manner in^ to the divisions of the body, where they are distributed to the ex- ternal skin and the internal skin. In some intestinal worms there is observed a nervous ring which surrounds the mouth, and from which proceed two cords running along the whole length of the body. In the articulate animals, the nervous system presents a pretty general character. There is a small bulging, called the brain, which is placed upon the oesophagus, and furnishes nerves to the parts about the head. Two cords which embrace the oeso- phagus like a collar, are continued under the alimentary canal, and unite at intervals into as many double ganglions or knots as there are rings in the body, and from which proceed the nerves of the trunk and limbs, when the latter exist. Nearly the same arrange- ment is observed in the cirripeda. In the mollusca there is a greater diversity than in the articulate animals. In them, how- ever, the nervous system always consists of ganglia communicat- ing by cords, and sending filaments to the different external and internal parts. In the acephalous mollusca there is above the mouth a principal ganglion to which the name of brain is impro- perly given, and another towards the opposite extremity of the body. Behind the mass of the intestines, two nervous branches establish a communication between the ganglia, and embrace the viscera in their course. Other filaments are distributed to the dif- ferent parts of the body. In the mollusca which are furnished with a head, there is a principal ganglion or medullary mass, named the brain, situated transversely upon the oesophagus, which