OF THE IIAIltS. lfjl arc moreover supplied at their root, with a small muscle whose ac- tion is to raise them. Although the shaft of the hair is strictly speaking insensible, yet as their root is applied upon a papilla pro- vided with a nerve, they transmit to it with great accuracy the ef- fects of the contact of external bodies which act mechanically upon them. Their vegetation or production goes on without intermis- sion, resembles that of the epidermis and nails, and like it consti- tutes a true excretion. Some facts would seem to indicate that there takes place in their interior, not a true circulation, but an im- bibition, and that a coloured fluid passes slowly through them from the root towards the free extremity. They have been alleged, but without proof, to be organs of absorption. Their use is to protect the skin, and, in some places especially to assist sensation. They have besides local uses. 342. With reference to the regions which they occupy, the hairs present considerable difference, and have received different names. On the head, where they are longer, closer, and stronger than anywhere else, they are called capffli, coma, ccesaries. The eyebrows or supercilia and eyelashes or cilice belong to the eyes. The orifices of the nose and ear are also furnished with hairs. The cheeks, the parts about the mouth, and the chin, are oc- cupied by the beard, barba, julus, mystax, or pappus. The axillae are also furnished with hairs, glandebalce, as well as the pubis, the scrotum, or the lips of the vulva, and the neighbour- hood of the anus. The rest of the body, whether the trunk or limbs, is also more or less furnished with hairs. On the trunk there are more on the anterior than on the dorsal surface, which is the reverse of what is generally seen in animals, and on the limbs there is less hair on the inner than on the outer side. In general, the hairs of the greater part of the trunk and limbs are scanty, very delicate, short and scarcely visible, although in some individuals they are of large size and very abundant. 343. It is about the middle of gestation that the rudiments of the hairs begin to be perceived. They appear in the corpus mu- cosum under the form of globules similar to those of the pigmen- tum. Upon these globules rise small hollow cones, which are the sheaths of the hairs. They remain for some time under the epi- dermis, and at length pass obliquely through it, according to some by pores, although they have not been seen. There is presently observed on the skin of the foetus a fine down, lanugo, at first colourless, which covers nearly the whole body, and effects determinate directions in the different regions. These silky hairs, for the most part, fall off about the eighth month of gestation, and are found in the liquor amnii and meconium. It is in the last month of gestation that the ciliae, superciliae, and hairs of the head begin to appear. After birth the rest of the down I falls off". Towards puberty the beard, the hairs of the nose and M