si a]tl OF THE ARTERIES. «03 1 j- and senile. The former has its scat between the inner and middle rmembranes, and is preceded by one of the above-mentioned altera- ; tions. The latter, on the contrary, has its seat in the middle ^ nmembrane, and consists of a transformation of its fibrous rings into toony hoops of greater or less extent. The different parts of the l arterial system are not all equally liable to this conversion. The ^^^—i-Zs* n*rM4-A*v* i« w» i * -m/iMZ* 4Vn ft ■ t r% n f 11 r o A-Vi/-»f /l liir if til O n flirt -i-vnl Averse ortic system is much more frequently affected by it than the pul- mionary system. The internal spurs of the arteries and the valves ibf their trunks often present it; the arteries of the inferior extre- mities more frequently than those of the superior: the arteries of tfche muscles, the heart, the brain, and the spleen, pretty frequently; tlhose of the stomach and liver rarely. Lastly, the whole arterial sys- cem has been seen ossified by Harvey, Riolan, and Loder. Ossifica- s*f«e the outer £ nearest branch, *to Lxperienced by the inner the outer, and the pre- id of orgaaizahle matter, >f all the divided parts, softens, then Hes in rature is cast off. The tie vessel are the same ch n have above de- differ, accordion aa it f Tcontracted more or [Lion of the arteries is most commonly the lot of old age. Acci- llental ossification, however, is sometimes seen in young subjects, aind even in infancy. Ossification of the arteries is of rarer oc- currence in the female sex than in men. It is much more common rn cold climates than in warm countries. The effect of arterial ossification, and especially of that which ss accidental, is to produce wearing of the membranes between nwhich it is placed. Ossification of the arteries has been attributed co a multitude of causes. That which is accidental is a true pro- Huction or deposition. The ossification of old age appears to be Ihe last term of the successive changes which the middle mem- brane, which is at first soft and reddish, undergoes during life. 433. There sometimes occur excrescenses of a fleshy consistence, ■attached to the inner surface of the arteries, and especially to the toemilunar valves which are at the entrance. 434. Dilatation of the arteries, or arteriectasis, is an affection of very frequent occurrence. It may consist, 1st, In a mere loss of Elasticity without apparent alteration of the walls ; 2dly, In an al- eeration of the dilated walls. Simple dilatation is met with especially in the large trunks. It generally affects the whole circumference, and the tumour which esults from it has the ovoidal form. It has often been ob- served in the arch of the aorta, and sometimes in the pul- monary artery. Dilatation with alteration of the walls affects the aaorta and the different parts of the aortic system as far as towards Ihe ramifications. The arteries of the upper extremities are much ore rarely affected than the others. The alteration and dilata- iion which results from it are most commonly lateral. It is this ihat authors have described, since Femel's time, under the name >f>f true aneurism. The altered walls are rather thickened than at- tenuated. The blood which these two kinds of dilatation contain is ituid. 435. Aneurism results from the destruction or rupture, in a fford from the solution of continuity of the arterial walls, common- preceded by the dilatation of these walls, and always by their