126 OF THE TEGUMENTARY MEMBRANES IN GENERAL. deepest and thickest part, that which forms the basis of them, and at the surface of which the others are placed. It is formed of a layer of fibrous cellular tissue, more or less compacted, having the appearance of being felted, and leaving interstices through which various other parts pass. 249. Blood-vessels, lymphatics and nerves, varying in their number, are distributed and ramify in the substance of the dermis, and especially at its outer surface, where they form inequalities, which are named papillae, villosities, or vascular buds, and which will be more exactly defined and described, when we come to treat particularly of the two teguments. 250. The surface of the dermis is covered by a layer, which is more or less distinct according to the different parts of the tegu- ments, and which is called the Corpus mucosum or reticulare. It consists of cellular tissue, in a semifluid state, or scarcely organized, in which terminate or from which arise the most minute divisions of the white vessels. This layer, which is considerably compounded, is the seat of the colouring, as well as of the horny incrustations with which the integuments are furnished in some parts. This layer is less distinct in the mucous membranes than in the skin. 251. The Epidermis is the least essential of the tegumentary membranes, that which forms their free surface. It is an albumi- nous layer excreted at the surface of the corpus mucosum. In many parts of the mucous membranes the epidermis is not distinct, and seems to be substituted by mucus. The epidermis has a great resemblance to mucus in respect to its chemical nature. 252. Several parts of the tegumentary membranes are provided with projecting appendages at their free surface. These append- ages are, for the skin, the nails, and hairs; and, for the mucous membrane, the teeth. 253. The teguments are almost entirely resolved into gelatine by decoction. The very diversified colouring of the integuments depends in part upon that of the blood, and in part upon a co- louring matter secreted from the blood in the corpus mucosum. Their density, which varies greatly, is nearly intermediate between that of the cellular, ligamentous, and elastic tissues. Their elasti- city is considerable. They also possess a slow extensibility and rctractibility to a very great extent. Their power of formation is highly developed. The irritability which they possess, although much inferior to that of the muscles, is yet great. They are the essential organ of sensibility. 254. The organic action, or the function of the tegumentary membrane is very important, very complex, and different in the different portions of that membrane. As a tegument, or envelope, internal as well as external, of the mass of the body, it constitutes a barrier which has to be traversed from without inwards by all the foreign substances which enter into the body to form part of it, and from within outwards by all those which, after having formed part of it, become foreign to it. These substances, and all the