195 OF THE ARTERIES. fit"3 mult tie. 1 )„1 men " is toni S5tnider ■ of its oblique fibres* V fetalis. ra^Menfe^ j lowish colour, and is M This membrane, tie § trunk It increase! 1 diminish k volume. I a of certain viscera, 1 It can be Med into J :his circumstance a» i i three art the deep do not all form j fibres ite ledonot c'uculai ring, die meJ mi east there. . fibres of tJ* ad the aniiiiiff is m mm iW open J sSss H4. ii# of a peculiar nature, but participating of the characters of the muscular and ligamentous fibres. 412. The inner membrane of the arteries, which is also called the nervous, arachnoid, common, &c. is the thinnest of the three. It is continued from the ventricles of the heart into the arteries. 11 is of it that the greater part of the similunar valves of the arteries are formed. In the huge branches, when empty, it pre- sents some longitudinal folds, and small transverse rugas in the arteries of the ham and elbow-joint. It is equally wrinkled in the retracted arteries after amputation. Its inner surface is smooth, polished, moist, and in contact with the blood. Its outer surface adheres to the middle membrane. In the arterial trunk, it can be divided into several layers. The innermost is extremely thin, and transparent; the others are opaque white. It is to this latter part especially, that the name of nervous membrane has been given. In the branches it forms but a single indivisible lamina. No ap- pearance of fibres is distinguished in this membrane, which is very dense. It tears- nearly with the same facility in all directions. It ihas little elasticity. It has been compared to the serous mem- I branes and the mucous or cellular tissue. It is not vascular, like : the serous membranes in general; and it is to the arachnoid raera- Ibrane that it bears the greatest resemblance. 413. There also enter into the composition of the arteries, cel- 1 hilar tissue, vessels and nerves. The cellular tissue which penetrates to the outer membrane, and iwhich unites it to the middle, is sufficiently apparent, but beyond tthis, it is so rare and compact, that its existence has been doubted. lHowever, when by dissection the outer membrane, and the greater [part of the thickness of the middle are removed from an artery, tthere rise from the uncovered part fleshy granulations, as from the tthe rest of the wound. 414. The arteries and veins of the arteries (vasa arteriarum) iare furnished by the neighbouring vessels, and become very ap^ (parent in the outer membrane by injections, and even sometimes "without them, especially in young subjects. They have been traced to their entrance into the middle membrane, but no farther. What are called exhalent or absorbent vessels, more cor- rrectly the unknown passages of exhalation and inhalation, are tlaemonstrated in the walls of the arteries by the same fact, for in iijiflammation of the arteries an exhalation takes place at their in- ier surface; and, in cases of ligature, the internal coagulum is absorbed. 415. The nerves * of the arteries come from the spinal marrow und the ganglia. The arteries of the organs of the vegetative unctions receive them from the ganglia, the others from the spinal narrow. The nerves of the arteries form around them net-works * A Wrisberg, he. c'U—Lucsc, Qusedam Ohserv. Anal, circa Ncrvoi artcrias adc- ■■iites ct comitantct. 4to, cum Jig. Erancof. nd Moenum, 1810.