INTRODUCTION. 52 called in to our assistance, we see that these simple organs, and all their modifications, as well as all those compounded of them, may he reduced to two anatomical elements. They are formed of a permeable, areolar animal substance, and of microscopic globules similar to those which occur in the humours. The first substance alone forms lamina:, and most commonly fibres, which differ from each other only in having an elongated and filiform figure in the former case, and an extended form in the latter, and which al- though sometimes separate, are most commonly associated together^ It is from their union that the cellules or areola?, &c. result. This first clement, which of itself, but variously modified, constitutes the greater part of the organs, when united with the other whose particles it brings together and connects, forms the muscular fibre and the nervous substance. 8(5. The organs further differ from each other by the pheno- mena which they present during life, and which we shall presently examine. Here it is sufficient to observe, that the cellular sub- stance is especially remarkable for its constant condensation, which may be increased by impressions or imitations; that the ligamen- tary tissue and the clastic tissue, its two principal varieties, are characterized, the one by a great degree of tenacity, the other by a power of resiliance; that the muscular fibre is, by its contrac- tion, the organ of all the great motions; and that the nervous sub- stance is distinguished from all the others, by the faculty of con- ducting the impressions to the centre, and the action of the nervous centre to the muscles and other organs. 87- The organs being different from each other in their confor- mation, their texture, their physical properties, their chemical com- position, and in the state of life in the action which they exercise, they have been divided into a certain number of classes or genera. These genera ought to be determined according to the aggregate of the characters, and not by the form alone ; otherwise very dif- ferent organs will be brought together, as the membranes and parts will be separated which are perfectly similar excepting as to form, as the broad and the long bones, the aponeuroses with the tendons and ligaments, the nerves and the ganglia, &c. ; the fibrous or fasciculate form, and the lamellar or membranous form, being found to occur in parts which in all other respects are entirely dis- similar. 88. The ancients divided the solid parts of the body into similar and dissimilar or organic parts. The similar or homogeneous parts are those which can be divided into particles similar to each other, as the bones, the muscles, the tendons, &c. The dissimilar parts are those which arc formed by the association of similar parts, as the hand, the viscera, the organs of sense, and other organic com- pounds. This idea of Aristotle, which was again proposed with new developments by Coiter, is the origin and foundation of all the divisions subsequently proposed among the organs. The divi- sion generally admitted in anatomical books, into bones, muscles,