as the anastomoses and the lateral passages which they present to s n Ven„„. 1ft ^ thatfV ^ ders the felt* ventrfc/eoff6ei &5ubstanceoftfieheart* u^iwrhble '■teyisJinWiM, "ne, the orifice of the oe tissue, the summit cf ?d to the orifice of the esemturs are equally e inner membrane of the t, and the outer mem- the arteries exceptions, hower: eem to contract. The , the Ust ramifications. L. ^uw> 30(1 c rDfAi?«m- al^.jththeo- tecom^^teute- OF THE ARTERIES. 193 the circulation. It is the same with the flexuosities. The termination of the arteries, after they have become capillary •and microscopic, takes place by their being continued into veins, whether by red capillary communications, or by communications which are colourless by reason of their minuteness. 408. Viewed in their interior, the arteries are cylindrical; their section is circular, excepting in the very large arteries, which, when empty, become a little flattened, and present an elliptical section. Each of the two arterial trunks is furnished with three valvules at its commencement at the heart. These semilunar valvules are attached by their convex edge to the contour of the festoons of the artery. Their free edge is straight and somewhat thick, especially at the middle, which presents a small bulging. One face is di- rected toward the wall of the artery, and the other towards the axis of the vessel. These valvules are formed by the inner mem- brane of the arteries, doubled upon itself, and containing in its substance a thin layer of ligamentous or fibrous tissue. Their free edge contains a small cord of this tissue, and its middle a fibro- cartilaginous point. When these valves fall, the face which cor- responds to the ventricle becomes convex, and the other which corresponds to the canal becomes concave; their free edges meet, touch each other, and they exactly close the vessel. In all the •rest of their extent the arteries are destitute of valves. The inner surface is smooth, polished, and moistened. The outer surface corresponds to the common and particular cellular •tissue in which the arteries are ramified. The cellular tissue, moulded around them or separated by their presence, forms a cel- lular sheath for them. This sheath is confounded externally with the rest of the cellular tissue or with the substance of the organs. Internally it is attached to the artery in so loose a manner as to permit the latter to slide easily in its interior during the different i motions, and to retire within it by contracting in the longitudinal i direction when it is divided. This sheath is pretty firm around the : arteries of the membranes. In the thorax and abdomen the sheath i of the arteries is in part formed by the serous membranes. That i of the spermatic arteries is remarkable for its looseness, and that i of the arteries of the brain is not distinct. This part of the ana- itomy of the arteries deserves great consideration in pathology and i in operations. 409- The texture of the arteries * results from several super- i imposed membranous layers. There has been much diversity of * Ludwig. De Aiteriarum tunicis, Lips. 1739. Albinus, Acad. Annot. Lib. iv. cap. viii. de Arter'im Membranis ct Vasts. A. Monro, Remarks on the Coats of the Ar- teries, their Diseases, &c. in Works. Delasone, Sur la Structure des Arteres, Mem. dc VAcad. des Sc. 1756- C. Mondini, De Artcriarum tunicis, in Opusc. Scicnlif. t. i. Bologna, 1817. A. Beclard, Sur les Dktiurcs des Arlercs, Mem. de la Soc. Med,, d'Emulation, t. viii. Paris, 1817. o