N Pect 6' 4t OF THE PEUIOSTEUM. '235 >tur, 'Hi. Hi iand strength of the muscles which they surround. They present openings for the passage of vessels from the deep to the superficial plane, and vice versa. They are furnished with tensor muscles, whether proper, or simply by expansion of their tendons. Their ses are to keep the muscles in place, and furnish attachments to They exercise by their resistance a slight pressure upon s»ell .1. ENVELOPES. 'e formed by bgaBieniou :el!uk tissue furnishes ti lem. tlhe deep vessels, and thus favour the venous and lymphatic circu- lation. Their knowledge is of great importance in a pathological ooint of view, on account of the strangulations to which they may rjive rise. Nor is it less so in surgery, by reason of their connex- ions with the muscles and vessels. The thigh, the leg, the foot, the hand, the fore-arm and the inn, are furnished with aponeuroses of this kind. 520. The aponeuroses of the walls of the cavities of the trunk, ojr the partial aponeuroses, invest, cover, and even envelope, at Ideas t in part, certain muscles. Of this kind are the compound ^aponeurotic sheaths of the recti and pyramidales muscles of the Abdomen; the aponeurosis of the back, which covers the muscles ioDf the vertebral grooves; the temporal aponeurosis; the pelvic, ttransversal, superficial, jugular aponeuroses, &c. Some of them, laand especially the latter, are not very distinct from the cellular tis- Bsue, into which they are continued. II. OF THE SHEATHS OF THE TENDONS. r the enveloping aponeu- 9. j ifi 521. The sheaths of the tendons are ligamentous canals which .^surround and fix the tendons in their place. Some of them are sufficiently long to form true canals ; others, I which are much shorter are called annular ligaments. Of these i sannular ligaments, some are entirely circular. The others, as well jaas the sheaths, are completed by the neighbouring bones, whence presult osteo-ligamentous sheaths. They are, as well as the tendon which they contain, lined by vaginiform synovial membranes. TThese sheaths are very solid and strong. They contain each one lloor more tendons. They are especially numerous at the free ex^ jlttremity of the limbs, more in the direction of flexure, and also | sstronger in this direction than in that of extension. They keep | iihe tendons in their places, prevent their displacement during the jkaction of the muscles and the motions of the joints. They also, liin some places, serve as pullies which change the direction of the ittendons, and modify that of the motions. III. OF THE PERIOSTEUM. 522. The envelope of the bones, or the periosteum, surrounds tthe bones in their whole extent, excepting the articular surfaces. : IThe teeth alone, which however are not bones, are destitute of it. This envelope is interrupted at the amphiarthrodial md diar-