170 OF THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. ly the middle membrane of the vessels which are furnished with one, are formed of a peculiar kind of fibre. This fibre has received the names of elastic fibre, elastic fibrous tissue, &c. although most organs are elastic and fibrous, because it possesses elasticity in the highest degree. It was first observed by Nichols, John Hunter and Sir Everard Home,* and has en- gaged the attention of several anatomists and chemists of the pre- sent day.-j- It forms not only the walls of the vessels, but also those of the air-tubes, and constitutes part of certain excretory ducts. It forms the envelope of the corpus cavernosum, and that of the spleen, as well as the ligamenta flava of the vertebra. In various animals, it moreover forms the posterior cervical ligament, an abdominal coat in the great mammifera, a ligament which retracts the claws of the feline animals, and the ligaments by which bivalve shells are opened; and in most mammiferous animals, it occupies the place of the muscles of the small bones of the tympanum. But it is more particularly in the middle coat of the arteries, the liga- menta flava, and the ligamentum nucha?, that its peculiar charac- ters are most distinctly seen. It exists under two principal forms: the tubular, as in the walls of the arteries, and the fascicular, as in the ligamenta flava. This fibre is opaque, of a yellowish white colour, dry, firm, and disposed in bundles always parallel or nearly so, never interlaced or connected by cellular tissue, and very easily separable. It is highly elastic: when distended, it becomes sensibly elongated, and in some parts acquires double its length, and when again left to it- self, suddenly and with great force contracts. Its tenacity in the living body is less than that of the muscular tissue, and is much greater than it is in the dead body. In the two states, it is much less than that of the ligamentary tissue, which is possessed of very little extensibility. It is more tenacious in the fasciculi, and on the other hand more fragile in the vessels. The elastic tissue contains about the half of its weight of water. When it has lost it by desiccation, it acquires a horny appearance, and a deep yellow colour, and becomes brittle and transparent, like horn. If immersed in this state in water, it greedily absorbs it, and resumes its original weight, elasticity, and general appear- ance. It greatly resists maceration, and the cellular tissue does not then become apparent in its interior. The action of fire hardly curls it, and it leaves little charcoal. Decoction in like manner scarcely curls it, and although it removes a little of gelatin from it, does not melt it, and does not destroy its elasticity. Acids harden it in only a slight degree, and do not render it transparent. • Croonian Lcciure on Muscular Motion, in Phil. Trans. 1795. f II. Hauff, De Sya/cmatc tclcc Llustucr, &c. Tubvigir, 1822. Clicvreiil, unpub- lished notice.