309 OF THE INTERNAL JMUSCEES. The volume of these muscles is very inconsiderable compared with that of the external muscles. AH of them form walls of canals or reservoirs. 704. These muscles are disposed in layprs or in bundles crossT ing each other. In the whole extent of the alimentary canal, there are circular or annular fibres, and longitudinal fibres, forming each a distinct plane, more or less complete, and varying in thickness. In the reservoirs, as well as in the heart, the fibres which are. disposed in layers and bundles obliquely crossing each other, have the form of circles or rings fixed by their extremities to the sides of the aperture of the organ. The bundles of fibres in these organs cross between each other and unite in the manner of plexuses. This disposition is lew marked in the alimentary canal, where the mus- cular layers cross at right angles. The muscular fibre of the internal muscles is of a greyish white colour in the greater number of them, and red in the heart alone. This fibre does not otherwise differ from that of the external mus- cles. The uterus alone presents in this respect a decided differ- ence, and characters which are entirely peculiar. 705. The cellular tissue of the internal muscles is less abun- dant and more compact than that of the other muscles, fibrous or ligamentous tissue pccurs only in the heart, where it forms rings at the orifices of the ventricles, cords or tendons in the columnar carneae of these cavities, aponeurotic expansions which constitute a, great part of the tricuspid and bicuspid valves of the auriculo ven- tricular orifices, and cords in the edge of the semilunar valves of the arterial orifices. B,ichat, who speaks only of the tendinous cords of the columnte carneae, had already indicated that tl^ere ex- ist differences between them and the tendons.* In the other parts nothing similar to the ligamentous tissue is observed, excepting the submucous fibro-cellular- tissue, to which the subjacent muscular fibres are attached. The internal muscles appear to have more blood-vessels than the others. M. Ribes, however, asserts the contrary, the nerves of these muscles, which are not numerous, belong for the most part to the great sympathetic nerve. Several of them are supplied by the pncumo-gastric nerve and some by the other spinal nerves. 706. The irritability of the internal muscles presents the sg,me phenomena as those of the other muscles, excepting fibrillar agitaT tion, which has been observed only in the heart. Irritability appears to be less dependent on the nervous influence in these than in the other muscles. Mechanical irritation is much more effectual in determining con- tractions in them than the action of galvanism. The latter acts little upon them through the intervention of the nerves.. Tlie cardiac nerves and the heart, however, being included in a galvanic circle, the continued action of this agent determines motions in the organ. f Therf seems however to b.e no difference in their chemical composition—K.