58 INTRODUCTION. the spermatic fluid, fecundation, and the development of the fe - cundated germ, and of which the result is the maintenance of the species, or the keeping up of a succession of similar individuals. The other functions are peculiar to animals, and are, 3dly, Muscu- lar action, the results of which are locomotion, gesture, and the voice, and moreover, the muscular motions necessary for the per- formance of the two preceding functions ; 4thly, The sensations ; and 5thly, Nervous action or innervation. Another order of func- tions still belongs exclusively to man. These are the intellectual functions, which have only an apparent existence in the animals which most resemble him. Lastly, man does not exercise indivi- dual functions only, but, living in society, he exercises collective actions, the observation and arrangement of which do not belong to physiology or medical science. 98. In bodies in a state of rest, we perceive only the qualities by which they strike our senses. In bodies in action or in motion, we still distinguish only phenomena or changes perceptible to our senses. Of the qualities and phenomena, some are common to all bodies, others peculiar to organized and living bodies. The latter are their proper qualities and phenomena, in a word, their proper- ties. The properties are, in fact, nothing else than sensible quali- ties and phenomena. When phenomena take place in an order of which all the conditions can be determined, the law of these phenomena is known, in other words, the rule which they follow, and to which they appear to us to be subjected. This law, when it is general, receives the name of theory. Beyond this we know nothing. But we admit, in general, that matter is inert, and when- ever we see it in action, we suppose a cause of motion which makes it act, and which we call a force or power. Thus organic matter being in action during the whole period of life in organized bodies, it has been said that life has a vital power for its cause. * This power has been considered as a substance different from the organs, and of which the latter are the instruments, audit has been sometimes described as rational, sometimes irrational. It has also been considered as a faculty or activity proper to matter, whether of solid organic matter, or of fluid matter. It has also been re- garded as resulting from organization, that is from the assemblage of all the solid and fluid parts of an organized body, &c. It would no doubt have been better, in a physical science like that of organization and life, to have stuck to the observation of bodies and facts, without letting the imagination loose. 99- The organic or vital phenomena being different from each other, the vital or organic powers which have been admitted, are also of several kinds. There are phenomena of organic formation, such as those of nu- trition and generation, the reparation of injured parts, reproduc- # Sec Ht 'tl. I'on dor Lclcnslcraft, in Archiv. furv die P/iysiofogie. B. 1. IJallc, j 795 GliauMior.} Table Synopttque dc la Func I'Ualc, &<_■.