^ate^ ijigamcnts, which aire perfectly isolated at their two * *° c&ota; nv their edges or their extremities. 2. Others ai OF THE FIBRO-CARTILAGINOUS TISSUE. 239 surfaces, adhere edges or their extremities. 2. Others adhere by one of : hheir surfaces. Of this kind are the fibro-cartflages which arc met with wherever a tendon rubs against a bone, and whose presence is i»wing to the circumstance that the periosteum becomes cartilaginous rn these places; and those which the ligaments present upon which iccndohs slide, as is the case with the calcaneo-cuboidal ligament, against which the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle rubs. Such ure also the fibro-cartilaginous rims attached to the edge of the glenoid and cotyloid cavities. In general, wherever the fibrous issue is exposed to habitual friction, this tissue assumes a carti- aaginous texture and aspect, as is seen at the annular ligament of hhe wrist, and the transverse ligament of the odontoid process. The pulley of the obliquus major also affords an example of the same kind. 3. Certain cartilaginous ligaments adhere by their two surfaces. The intervals between the bodies of the vertebrae atk Aem amoncr .f3D!ecti uund the interval between the two ossa pubis, are filled up with •^Wialas^i i^3* organs of this kind. Thus, according to their form and connex- ions ' "Jills- Ked car o ere »0 ons, there may be distinguished three kinds of cartilaginiform j MM a part of (to rnbed in the next chapter; em to me to eiist ia nafare, it. The fibMrtilagesof lutaTarietyof tkdewisi ntous organs, arvor m wol pass nto theosseous state: they They are met with in (he m fiblMBfl*'" «smoid bones are .1, are applied upon the ^ i 5 des upon the meats Jen** urains 0 , certain anffl" Jiigaments. 532. These organs, although always fibrous like the ligaments, jkand very dense like the cartilages, present a great number of va- rieties, with reference to the consistence and homogeneousness of thheir tissue. The menisci, or inter-articular ligaments, for ex- ample, present very distinct fibres at their circumference, and to- wards their centre, which is thin, assume an appearance becoming mnore and more compact and homogeneous, without however de- serving, even in that place, to be considered as true cartilages. The cartilaginous periosteum has more resemblance to these latter. J{n the amphiarthrodial ligaments, a very apparent fibrous tissue exists at the exterior. In proportion as it approaches the centre, iti, becomes converted into a kind of pulp or white pap which re- sembles cartilage, less in its consistence however than from the illisappearance of the fibres and its apparent homogeneousness. 533. There enter into the composition of the fibro-cartilages the •same parts as into that of the ligamentous tissue. Few vessels >ccur in them. Their chemical composition has not been suffi- ciriently examined. By desiccation they become yellow and trans- parent, like the ligaments. Decoction acts upon them in the same imanner as upon these latter: it melts them entirely into jelly, so thhat they do not in this respect participate of the nature of the i cartilaginous tissue. 534. Their physical properties are similar to those of the liga- rments and cartilages. Their tenacity or force of cohesion, which ss very great, and even exceeds that of the bones, approaches them tcp the ligamentous tissue. On the other hand, they are very elas- tic, and quickly return upon themselves when they have yielded, whether to distention or to pressure. It is when they are com- pressed that their elasticity is most remarkable. They resist the T