Ion, the stomach, the periosteum, the meninx, the bones, their me- dullary membrane, the serous membranes, the mucous membrane, the muscles, the glands, the lymphatic ganglia, and the common cellular tissue. OF SCIRltHUS. .I p "• 839. The scirrhous tissue is less common than the preceding. It suocei^ is often confounded with it under the name of cancer. il pd I It most commonly exists under the form of isolated masses. I ^ and In the state of crudity, it is difficult to be distinguished from the h i ^{j tubercle and cerebriform tissue. It is hard, but its consistence va- ries from that of cartilage, or bacon rind, to that of the interverte- bral ligaments. It creaks under the point of the scalpel when scraped. It is white, bluish-grey, but slightly coloured, or colour- less and scmitransparent. It forms irregular masses, rarely lobu- latcd, and commonly homogeneous. It is sometimes divided in- ternally by fibrous or cellular intersections. This internal tissue is sometimes regularly radiated, like that of a turnip, sometimes al- veolar, and sometimes irregular. Distinct vessels are rarely seen in tity ot aioi it. I soda, phosf Scirrhus softens to the consistence of the jelly of boiled meat, and sometimes to that of syrup, in which state it is sometimes colour- less, sometimes yellowish, greenish, greyish, or pale reddish. Some- times, in this state, it is gummy or pultaceous, and sometimes re- meunii sembles honey. Melano This morbid tissue presents a considerable diversity of appear- fittiity ance, whether in the state of crudity, or in that of softening. into the a Bayle describes five or six species of cancers. Several of Mr. Abernethy's species of sarcoma are referable to this kind of tissue. Ih.?e» Scirrhus sometimes softens partially, and then presents tiie ap- I eaing, ev pearance of cicatrices (Nicod). In a case of this kind which I I and incre lately saw, it seemed to me, that what appeared to be cicatrices, was tuga^ the skin remaining sound in small patches, in the midst of a great number of superficial and irregular ulcerations. torpor ^ Scirrhus has been observed in most parts of the body, in almost all the organs, and in almost all the tissues. I IV. OF MELANOSIS. i I )\ 840. Melanosis,* the cancer melane of M. Alibert, is a morbid tissue characterised by its black colour, which was first noticed in man, as well as in other animals by some observers, but was distin- guished and named, some years ago, by M. Laenncc * Breschet, Considerations stir unc alteration organiquc appcllh Dcgencrcsccnce noire, &c. Paris, 1821.