fir*** ^^lachrvmilbon« , Mthreeorfirefc ated, are ali paired or • lilies; viz. the radius, the ulna, zneracarpus, the two of each of the other ; lateUa, ftMa, tk If the metatarsus, the t of each of the other J gi ****** «beinff»fourth, „f liew OF THE BONES. 253 -ujjum and coccyx; the sternum, the occipital bone, the sphenoid,! he ethmoid, the frontal bone, the vomer, the inferior maxillar bone, und the hyoid bone. . . ; All the rest are paired or double, and are situated on the sides lof the median line, at a greater or less distance from that line. The bones are divided according to their form, and according to1 tbhe proportion which their three geometrical dimensions bear to sach other, into long, broad, short, and mixed. In the first, one; )f the dimensions greatly preponderates over tho other two ; in the jroad bones, the length and breadth greatly exceed the thickness \ tin the short bones, the three dimensions are nearly equal; and the: imixed bones participate, indifferent parts of their extent, of the haracters of the bones of two kinds. 575. The long bones, ossa longa setc cylindrica, are situated in; tbhe limbs, where they constitute broken or jointed columns. The mumber of these bones, in each fraction of the limbs, increases, and- I ttheir length diminishes, as we recede from the trunk. Each long'' bbone is divided into a body or middle part, and two extremities.' 'The body or diaphysis, is cylindrical in some of them, and in; 3thers has the form of a triangular prism. It is generally a little bent or twisted. The extremities are enlarged. The broad bones, ossa- lata, sen plana, are situated in the' ittrunk, where they constitute walls of open cavities, and more or* Mess solid. These bones, which are flattened in two opposite di-; rrections, are curved, and some of them twisted. They are semi- circular, quadrilateral, or polygonal. Their edges are generally a liittle thickened. The short or thick bones, ossa crassa, are situated in the verte-- Ibral column, in the hand, and in the foot, where, by their assem- blage and multiplicity, they form solid and moveable parts. They* aare globular, tetrahedral, cuneiform, cuboidal, or polyhedral. The mixed bones, ossa mixta, are those which partake of the ^character of several kinds. They are numerous : the occipital" :bone, the sphenoid bone, the temporal bone, the coxal bone, the ssternum. The ribs participate of the character of the broad,; -short, and long bones. The long bones themselves resemble the tthick bones at their extremities. » 576. There are distinguished in the external conformation of tthe bones, parts, or regions of their extent. . In the single bones there are, in general, either an azygous and nmedian parts, and lateral parts, as the body and processes of the ssphenoid bone, the body and the apophysal masses of the vertebra?,' fc&c. or lateral parts only, united in the median fine, as the two5 Ihalves of the frontal bone, &c. • Many bones divide into parts or regions, determined by their mode of formation or development. Thus, the haunch bone is" (divided into ilium, ischium, and pubis, the sphenoid bone, the eth- moid bone, the temporal bone, &c. into several regions equally distinct by the mode of their development. In other bones, the division into regions results solely from the