OF COMPOUND MORBID TISSUES. 377 This substance exists under the form of isolated masses, naked, or furnished with envelopes, under that of infiltration, and under that of plates at the surface of the membranes. The masses of melanosis vary in size, from the smallest volume, to that of a nut. They exist in a greater or less number in the same individual. They are sometimes pretty regular, sometimes mammillated or lobulated, and sometimes look as if formed of twisted and convoluted laminae. These parts are connected, and the masses surrounded, by cellular tissue. The vessels follow this tissue, but do not penetrate into the black substances. This sub- stance is black or brown, opaque, without smell or taste, firm, tena- cious, and apparently homogeneous ; but if it be broken by per- cussion, and washed with water, the water is coloured brown or black, and the tissue deprived of its colour, and rendered greyish. Melanosis occurs in plates at the surface of the mucous or serous membranes. It also occurs infiltrated into the substance of the mucous membrane, of the false membranes, ganglia, &c Melanosis, submitted to chemical examination, appears to be composed: 1st, of coloured fibrine; 2dly, of blackish colouring matter, soluble in diluted sulphuric acid, and in a solution of subcar- bonate of soda, colouring these fluids red; 3dly, of a small quan- tity of albumen; 4thly, of chlorure of sodium, subcarbonate of soda, phosphate of lime and oxide of iron. The composition of melanosis, therefore, is very similar to that of the coagulum of the blood, that is, to the colouring matter of the blood and fibrine, both being in a peculiar state. There are also met with in it three fatty substances. Melanosis softens slowly, under the form of blackish pap; and, according to the place in which it occurs, this substance is effused into the cavities, or infiltrated, so as to colour the humours and tissues. Sometimes, but rarely, subcutaneous melanosis ulcerates. Dr. Ferrus lias observed a case of this kind. In the'state of soft- ening, even when extreme, this tissue has little tendency to spread and increase. It does not exhibit so deleterious an action upon the organism, as the preceding tissues. The alterations which have been most commonly observed, are a general discoloration, dropsies, torpor, and a debility similar to that which takes place in scurvy. Melanosis has been observed in many parts of the body, and especially in the common cellular tissue, in the muscles, the heart, the lymphatic glands, the orbit, the eye, the lungs, the liver, the kidnies, the pancreas, the spleen, the cellular tissue of the mamma, the accidental cellular tissue, &c. Melanosis appears to result from an aberration of some of the constituents of the blood, and especially its colouring matter. V.—Of cirrhosis, &c. 841. Cirrhosis, or the fawn-coloured morbid tissue, sometimes