OF TUB NERVOUS SYSTEM. now proceed to consider it first in its aggregate, and then its prin- cipal parts, referring for the detail to particular neurology. FIRST SECTION. OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM IN GENERAL. 741. The Nervous System* forms a continuous whole or a ra- mified and reticulated aggregate, of which all the parts are con- nected with each other. 742. This system consists of a central mass, nervous cords and ganglia. The central nervous mass, which has not received any proper name, and which is designated by the name of brain in general, and sometimes by that of nervous axis, or cerebro-spinal organ, consists itself of several parts, which are distinguished by their si- tuation into spinal marrow or rachidian cord ('Pr^/r>)s (Muikog) and encephalon ('EiwcsaXo?); by their form and texture into nervous medulla and into cerebrum, cerebellum, and tubercula quadrige- mina. The rudimentary olfactory lobes are considered as nerves. The spinal marrow is a large single and median cord, divided by a double groove into two lateral portions, and by the insertion of the digitate ligaments into anterior and posterior bundles. This cord, which is principally contained in the vertebral canal, is pro- longed into the skull, and there bears the name of medulla oblon- gata. In this latter part, besides the anterior and posterior bundles, it has on each side a lateral or middle bundle. The middle bundles, augmented by the olivary eminences, are prolonged, for the most part, into the tubercula quadrigemina, and there terminate. The posterior bundles, after being reinforced in the festooned or rhomboidal body, expand in the brain and form it. Stretching beyond that part, they unite on the one hand in the median line, under the medulla oblongata, ■where they form the an- nular protuberance or pons varolii, and on the otber hand unite with the tubercula quadrigemina. The anterior bundles, after crossing each other, united to a part of the lateral bundles, and strengthened by the optic thalami and corpora striata, expand in a radiating manner to form the hemispheres of the brain, and unite again in the median line in the corpus callosum. •Th. Willis, Cerebri Anatomia Nervorumquc Descriptio ct Usu.t, Genevas, 1676. R. Vkussens, Ncurographia Universalis, Lugd. 1684. G. Prochaska, De Structura nervorum Tract. Anat. Ejusdem, Commcntalio de function. System'. Nerv. in Op. Minor. Vicq-d'Azyr, Rech sur la structure du ccrvcuu, du cervclel, da la moclle allon- gee, de la moclle ipintire, ct sur Vorigine des nerfs, <%c. in Mem. de I'Acad, des Sc. dc Paris, 1781 and 1783. A. Monro, Obscrv. on the Nervous System, Edinb. 1783. Ludwig, Scriplorcs Ncurologici minorcs sclecti, &c. Lipsiaa, 1791-9.5, 4to. F. G. Gall and Spurzheim, Rech sur le Sijsteme Nerv. en g'miral, ct sur celui de ccrveau en parti- cular, Paris, 1809. Kolando, Saggio sulla vera struttura del ccvrcllo dell' uomo e deg- li animate, e sopra le funxiotti del sistema ncrvoso, Sassari, 1809. Cams, Anat. und Plitftiol, det Ncrveri System*. Leipzig, 1811.'