3S0 OF THE VESICULAR WORMS. ralists reject one or two of the genera of this order which are the following : Acephdlocystis, Echinococcus, Cysticercus and Diceras. 848. The genus Acephalocystis,* which was proposed by M. Laennec, but has not been adopted, either by M. Rudolphi or by M. Cuvier, is composed of animals which consist of a vesicle des- titute of head or body, of a rounded form, from the size of a small pea to that of a middle-sized apple, with thin and soft walls, which are transparent, whitish, homogeneous, fragile, and filled with an aqueous and albuminous limpid fluid. It is doubtful whether spon- taneous motions have been observed in them. It would appear that these equivocal beings are produced by internal gemmae. They are met with in almost all the organs. Seven or eight species are known. They are always encysted, if we except the clustered mole, which is considered as formed by the aggregation of worms be- longing to a species of this genus. 849- The genus Echinococcus, established by M. Rudolphi, who perhaps includes in it the Acephalocystides, and which M. Cuvier does not admit, contains animals which consist of a single or double external vesicle, to the inner surface of which are attached several minute granular worms like grains of sand, of which the body is ovoidal, and the head (like that of Tcenia armata) furnished with a crown of hooks and suckers. One species, Echinococcus hominis, inhabits the human viscera, and especially the liver. 850. The Cysticercus has the body rounded or depressed, wrink- led, and terminating in a caudal vesicle. The head (like that of Tee nice armata) is furnished with four suckers and a recurved pro- boscis. They live singly in a very thin cyst. The Cisticercus of the cellular substance, C. celluloses, with the head square, the neck very short and enlarged anteriorly, the body elongated and cylindrical, and a transversely elliptical caudal vesicle, is the species which occurs so commonly in the hog. It has also sometimes been met with in the muscles, brain and heart of man. Some other species also occur in the human body. 851. The Diceras rudis has the body oval and depressed. It has a loose coat. Its head is furnished with a rough, filamentous, bifid horn. It is not precisely known if it inhabits the substance of the organs. It was discovered by M. Sultzer, in substances voided in consequence of a strong purgative. Its existence was doubted by M. Rudolphi, but it was again found by M. Le Sau- vage, of Caen, who sent specimens to the Society of the Faculty of Medicine at Paris, where I have seen them. * Laennec, loc. cit Ludersen. Diss, de hydatidihts. Gotting. 1808—H. Cloquet, Faunc des Medians, T. i. Paris, 1822.