46 INTItODUCTIOX. molecules which have come from without for the support of the body, and of those which are detached from the body in order to be ejected. Their fluidity is not due to caloric and water alone, like that of bodies foreign to the organization, but depends like their composition, upon the vital action. The fluids differ from each other, some being gaseous, others in the state of vapour, others again liquid. They also differ in colour. Their composi- tion varies in like manner, but it is peculiar to themselves, and cannot be imitated by art. The humours may be divided into three kinds: 1st, the blood, the central mass into which flow, or from which proceed all the others; 2dly, the humours, which come to the blood from with- out ; 3dly, those which emanate from it. 71. The blood is a fluid of a red colour, having a peculiar smell, and a somewhat salt and nauseous taste. Its temperature is that of the body, of which it is even the warmest part. It is viscid to the touch, and its specific gravity is about 105. It is contained in the heart and blood-vessels. Its quantity in the adult is great, but variable, and has been estimated at from eight or ten pounds to eighty or a hundred. 72. Those who occupy themselves with microscopical observa- tions have discovered the following circumstances with reference to the l)lood: it is composed of a serous vehicle in which micro- scopic particles of a red colour are held in suspension. In general these bodies have been considered as spheres marked with a lumi- nous point in their centre, or as being perforated, and consequently of an annular form. Hewson, on the contrary, found the red particles of the human blood to be lenticular. The important ob- servations of MM. Prevost and Dumas, as well as those made by myself, have yielded the same result. Sir E. Home and Dr. Young are of opinion that the flattening is posterior to the extra- vasation of the blood, and depends upon the separation of the colouring part. The particles are, in fact, composed of a central transparent globule of a whitish colour, and a less transparent red envelope, having the form of a depressed spheroid. In the human species, the diameter of the particles is about the hundred and fiftieth part of a millimetre. So long as the blood is contained in the vessels and is there in motion, things remain in this state. 73. When extracted from the vessels which contain it, the blood, during the whole time that it retains its heat, exhales a vapour formed of water and animal matter susceptible of putre- faction. It presently coagulates, probably gives out a little caloric, and also disengages a great quantity of carbonic acid gas. This disengagement, which is not very manifest when the blood is ex- posed to the atmospheric pressure, and is then only rendered sen- sible by the production of tubes in the interior of the coagulum, is distinctly observed at the exterior of the clot, when the blood is placed under the receiver of an air pump in which a vacuum is formed. This disengagement of vapour and gas from the blood,