338 OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. is a molecular motion of the nervous substance which is not in- stantaneous. On the other hand many facts seem to indicate that the nervous system is the forming and conducting organ of an im- ponderable agent analogous to the electric or galvanic agent. This agent of innervation, whose existence lias been proved by Reil, and admitted by M. Humboldt and by Aldini, allows us easily to explain all the phenomena of innervation, and especially the rela- tion which exists between the torpifying nervous action of electric fishes and the galvanic phenomena on the one hand, and the or- dinary nervous action on the other, the possibility of producing gal- vanic phenomena with nerves and muscles only, the possibility of determining muscular contractions, the chymifying action of the stomach, the respiratory action of the lungs, &c. by substituting galvanic action for the nervous influence ; the existence of a nervous atmosphere, acting at a distance around nerves and muscles, and across the solution of continuity of divided nerves; the plication which is produced in the muscular fibre when in a state of contrac- tion, and the connexion of the last transverse nervous fibrils with the angles of these folds, a phenomenon of innervation which re- calls certain phenomena of electro-magnetism, &e. These opinions have appeared so probable to M. Rolando, that lie has sought for the source of the nervous agent of contraction in the cerebellum, which, on account of its laminae, has appeared to him necessarily to act in the manner of a voltaic pile, and has ad- mitted a molecular motion of the pulp in sensation. Be this as it may, the nervous power becomes weakened and is exhausted by the operation of the intellect, by exercise of the or- gans of sense, of the muscles and encephalon, and still more by pain, and is restored by rest, food and sleep. Its energy, gene- rally and particularly, is proportional to the entire mass of the ner- vous system and to that of its parts, and especially to the mass of the grey substance, which is the most vascular. It is also propor- tional to the extent of the surfaces. It sometimes continues long after death in the nerves and muscles. This power seems to result from the action of a subtile fluid, formed by the organic action of the nervous substance bedewed with arterial blood. It appears that this fluid is formed in all parts of the system, but more especially in those parts where the grey and vascular nervous substance is accumulated. This subtile fluid seems to traverse the interior and the surface of the nerves, to form an atmosphere for them, and, beyond their extremities, to penetrate into or impregnate all the organs and the humours them- selves. The blood in particular appears to be penetrated by the same fluid, and to owe to it the essential properties by which it is distinguished during life. The arterial blood, however, furnishes the nervous system with the matter of its action ; and, accordingly, the influx of the arterial blood is one of the conditions of that action. Asphyxia, the cause of which has so long been sought for in the interruption of the passage of the blood through the lungs, (Haller,)