OF THI£ BONES. 251 animals. According to this idea, the skeleton, or osseous system of the vertebrate animals is, in fact, lirst, and principally seen to tonsist of a longitudinal column, which furnishes superiorly, or posteriorly, an envelope to the spinal marrow and brain, and ante- i riorly, or inferiorly, another envelope to the organs of nutrition, and especially to the central parts of the vascular system. Other less constant appendages are subservient to motion through their articulations. All the parts of the system, besides, may furnish attachment to muscles. The question, therefore, is, whether all the hard and dry parts of the body of animals, those which determine its form and facili- tate its motions, are to be called bones and skeleton; or if these names are to be restricted to the hard parts, peculiar to the verte- brate animals, which form a central and median column in the body, with a cavity for the nervous trunk, and another cavity for the heart and aorta, and frequently lateral appendages for motion. According to M. Geoffroi Saint-Hilaire, one of the naturalists who has engaged most deeply in the study of this point of zoo- tomy, and who has treated it with his original talent, there is no doubt on the subject, and all the difference between the skeleton of an articulate and a vertebrate animal, between the rachis of a crustaceous animal or an insect, and that of an osseous animal, depends upon the absence of a spinal marrow in the former, and its presence in the latter; a difference which renders necessary a rachis with two canals in the vertebrate animals, and one with a single canal in the crustaceous. 568. Be this as it may, and to return to our subject, there are three things to be considered in the osseous system ; the bones themselves, their articulations, and the skeleton which results from their union. SECTION I. OF THE BONES. 569- The Bones, Ossa, 0?sa, are the hardest parts of the human body, those which by their union form the skeleton. 570. Each of the bones, and many parts of bones, have receiv- ed particular names. These names ought to be so much the more precise and appropriate, that the names of many other parts of the body are formed from them. Hie name of several bones is an adjective taken substantively with a common termination : for example, the frontal, occipital, parietal, &c. * M. Dumeril -f- has proposed, as a means of giving " This is the case only in the French language; in the English, these names are all adjectives, and prefixed to the substantive bone ; frontal bone, occipital bone, &c R. K. + Projet d'tme nomenclature anatomique, in Magatin Encuclovedique. t. ii. Paris, 1795.