103 OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. in contact with the former, the false membrane determines the ag- glutination of the two parts formerly in contact. This is the first degree of adhesion, the gelatinous adhesion of some, the adhesive inflammation of others, which however I prefer calling agglutina- tion. Sometimes the agglutinating matter forms but a thin layer, interposed between the two approximated surfaces; at other times it is so abundant as to fill and distend the serous cavity. The organic adhesions of the serous membranes are a frequent result of the formation of false membranes. The organizable mat- ter of the agglutination changes into cellular tissue, in which there form branched canals which gradually acquire the vascular struc- ture, (Chap. IV.), and which ultimately communicate with the ves- sels of the inflamed membrane. Several of the first observers who saw the vessels of adhesions, took them for vascular villosities, pro- longed from the old membrane into the substance of the new one. John Hunter and Sir Everard Home have observed the contrary, which I have myself repeatedly confirmed. On introducing a tube filled with mercury into any part of a recent adhesion at random, branched canals may be injected, the widest part of which or the trunk corresponds to the centre of the adhesion, while the branches running into two opposite directions, like those of the vena-portas, direct themselves towards the serous surfaces without always reach- ing these surfaces, and without the latter furnishing very decided villosities. In the course of time, the disposition changes ; the ad- hesion, after the canals have communicated with the old vessels, becomes more and more vascular in the neighbourhood of the membrane, and less so in its centre. The organic adhesions of the serous membranes have not always the same form. They com- monly consist of a few bridles or cords, broader at the adherent ex- tremities, and thinner at the centre, which is free. At other times, there is a vast number of filaments nearly resembling bridles. Last- ly, in other cases, the adhesions are so numerous, that the two parts of the membrane are confounded together, and seem replaced by cellular tissue. The texture of adhesions, such as it is seen in the bridles, is that of the serous membranes ; they form a kind of sheath smooth at its surface, and filled with cellular tissue containing some vessels. These adhesions are on the one hand so frequent, and on the other sometimes so regularly organized, that many of the older physicians took them for natural ligaments, and that, even among the moderns, Tioch found some in the pericardium, and Bichat others in the pleura, which seemed to them to belong to an original conformation. The bridles which constitutes adhesions elongate more and more in proportion as they harden. It is even probable that their cen- tre is at length entirely absorbed. What tends to confirm this opinion is, that on examining the walls of the abdomen shortly af- ter wounds of that part, the intestine is generally found adhering to the place of the wound, while at a more advanced period, the adhesion is formed merely by a bridle which at length becomes it- self very slender, and if the disposition of the parts is observed at