306 OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. tered; no change whatever is perceived in the muscular fibres themselves. It is not useless, however, to observe that these fibrea are in this case deprived of the greater part of their irritability. 697- When a muscle is divided across, a considerable separation takes place between the edges of its division, and which is always greater than that of the wound of the skin. When the edges of the external wound have been brought together, and are united, the ends of the muscles, on the contrary, present a separation at first filled by an organizable fluid, which afterwards becomes vas- cular, soft, contracts a little, and slightly diminishes the separation which existed between the ends of the muscles, and at length be- comes more or less firm and tenacious. This interposed substance, when its organization is completed, has sometimes the appearance of cellular tissue, most commonly that of ligamentary tissue, and sometimes that of a subcartilaginous coriaceous tissue, but never that of muscular tissue. At whatever period of its formation it is examined, it is always found that the muscular fibres and fasciculi are foreign to it, and that it is only the union of the cellular tissue that forms sheaths for them. As a muscle which has been re- united in this manner therefore presents a kind of aponeurotic or tendinous intersection ; it is a kind of digastric muscle, of which the two bellies are living and irritable, while the interposed sub- stance only performs the functions of a tendon which resists or yields to distention in a greater or less degree. This interposed substance is not capable of being irritated, either by mechanical stimulants or by galvanism. However, when irritability is still very manifest, and the galvanic action is powerful, irritation ap- plied to one of the parts of the united muscle, is propagated through the cicatrix, which does not at all contract, to the other part of the muscle. It is not known whether in the living subject, and by the action of the will, the two parts of a muscle divided across and united again by a cicatrix, both contract. It is evident that the more widely separated the ends of the divided muscle re- main while the mediate reunion is produced, the longer and more extensible also will be the interposed substance, and the more will the motions of the muscles have lost their extent and power. Even in the best cases, the motions are at first impossible, then weak and unsteady, until the interposed substance has acquired all its firmness. All that has been above said respecting the uniting of muscles after being cut across, applies to their rupture by an effort. When a transverse wound of the muscles and skin remains open and separated, there forms in its whole extent a layer of sup- purating granulations, and afterwards a cicatrix of greater or less breadth, under which the two ends of the muscle remain separated. In this latter case, as well as in the preceding, the intervening substance by which the. separated parts of a muscle have been united, has been uncovered and cut out as being too long and ex-