2G INTUODUCTION. configuration, and the insecta, to which they approach in their structure, although at the same time they differ from both. Their body is elongated and formed of a series of rings, generally of con- siderable extent, each bearing one or two pairs of feet. Their mandibles and maxillae are similar to those of the Crustacea. Their respiration is tracheal. When they issue from the eggs, the young have six feet and seven or eight rings ; the other feet and the rings which bear them are developed as they advance in age. 44. The Crustacea are the most complex in their organization of all the articulated animals with jointed feet. The head is some- times confounded with the trunk, sometimes distinct. They have a tail of variable length, divided into segments, and are in general furnished with four antennae. Most of them have the mouth adapted for bruising, and for this purpose have several maxillae, six at the least, which are always lateral. They have always at least six pairs of feet for motion, but the form of these feet varies according to the kind of motion. The number of the locomotive feet is in the inverse ratio of that of the maxilla;. In fact, the anterior feet are placed near the maxillae, assume their form, perform part of their functions, and may even take their place entirely. For respira- tion they have pyramidal, lamellar, filamentous or tufted branchiae, which are generally connected with the bases of some of the feet, or even replace them in part. Their circulation is double. The blood which has been submitted to respiration passes into a large ventral aortic vessel, which distributes it to the whole of the body, whence it returns in another large vessel or even a true dorsal ventricle which transmits it to the branchiae. They have a liver, which is more or less divided, or even formed of disunited canals, according to the state of the heart. Their generation is sexual and oviparous, without true metamorphoses. Most of them transport their eggs. They all live in water. Considerable Variations are exhibited in their organization. The maxillae, feet, and branchiae are so strictly related that these appendages have been considered as being of the same nature, the first resulting from a transforma- tion of the two latter. Most of them have a shell, more or less solid, like the rest of the skin, which covers the trunk, and in some species even the head also. In several orders, the very muscular stomach is furnished with a cartilaginous skeleton, and tubercles or teeth. The intestinal canal is in general short and straight. The position of the genital organs varies. These organs are double in some genera. The eyes present several varieties; they are wanting in a small number; in others the two eyes are placed very close to each other, and even confounded so as to form but one; others again have compound eyes supported upon a move- able pedicel. Lastly, in some decapodous Crustacea, there are dis- tinct organs for hearing. 45. The Molluscous animals form a division of the invertcbrata in which there is generally presented a symmetrical or binary form, but without articulations. They have simple or multiple