INTRODUCTION. 4>"2 He is the only animal truly bimanous and a biped. His whole body is organized with reference to the vertical posture; and his hands are evidently reserved for other purposes than standing. The heart has an oblique direction with regard to the diaphragm, and the aorta is somewhat differently disposed from what it is in quadrupeds. The organs of digestion are adapted for a diversity of food, but chiefly for vegetable food. The penis is free, and without an internal bone; the uterus is a simple and oval cavity ; the mammae, which are only two in number, are situated at the fore part of the thorax. But as all the rest of this work is devoted to the study of the human body, it would be superfluous to insist upon characters which will be exposed in their places. SECTION SECOND. OF THE HUMAN BODY. 64. Man, as will be perceived, participates in the general cha- racters of bodies, of organized beings, of animals, of vertebrate animals, and of mammifera. Like every other being, he has also characters peculiar to himself. It is the study of all these charac- ters, whether of external and internal conformation, or of pheno- mena or functions, that forms the subject of anthropology or the science of man. Human anatomy, which is also called anthro- potomy, has for its particular object the knowledge of the human body, that is to say, of all the parts which enter into its composi- tion, and of their mutual arrangement. 65. The anatomist may study the human body in two different states : in the most ordinary state, that which is proper to the species, and alone compatible with the state of health ; or in its deviations from the natural state. In the former case, he studies the anatomy of man in health ; in the latter, morbid anatomy. In the study of anatomy, the human body may be considered in its entire state; the general characters of all its organs, all its humours, &c. may be contemplated. This is the general view of its constitution. The multiple organs may be brought together into genera or systems, according to their resemblances of texture, and the generic characters alone may be taken into consideration, all the specific differences of the organs being kept out of view ; and of those which, without being multiple, are extended to the whole of the body, there may only be considered the general cha- racters, the local differences which they present in the various regions being overlooked. Such is the object of general anatomy : it affords a somewhat more precise knowledge of the subject than the most general consideration above mentioned. But to know the human body in a positive and profitable manner, it is necessary to join to this a correct knowledge of each organ in particular, and of each region of the body. Such is the twofold object of special or particular anatomy.