OF THE CARTILAGES IN GENERAL. nate period of their growth, and are replaced by the bones. The latter remain much longer, and sometimes more than a century, in the cartilaginous state. Several of them, however, at length ossify, sometimes even at the end of the period of growth. The tempo- rary cartilages will be described along with the bones, (Chap. VIII.) We shall speak only of the cartilages named permanent. They form a pretty natural genus of organs, and also present some dif- ferences. SECTION I. OS THE CARTILAGES IN GENERAL. 542. Some cartilages have an elongated form, of which kind are the costal cartilages ; others are thick and short, as the arytenoid cartilages and the cricoid cartilages; but the greater number are broad and thin. Some of them are attached to the bones, of which they cover certain parts ; others are prolongations of them, and are firmly united to them; others are connected with the bones by li. gaments ; others are attached to each other, and have no other connexions with the bones. The cartilages are of a pearly white colour, and semi-transpa- rent when in thill laminae. Although they are the hardest parts of the body after the bones, they are easily cut. 543. Examined in their substance, the cartilages present neither cavities, nor canals, nor areolae nor fibres, nor laminae;—nothing, in short, that indicates an organic texture; but appear homoge- neous. However, it appears that they have a distinct and differ- ent kind of texture in each species of cartilage. This circumstance will be examined as We proceed. All the cartilages, excepting those of the articular surfaces, arc enveloped by a fibrous membrane, the perichondrium, which has few vessels, and is not so intimately connected with the cartilages as the periosteum is with the bones. Neither nerves nor vessels are known in the cartilages. The cellular tissue does not become apparent in them during life, and after death it requires a macera- tion prolonged during several months, even in young subjects, to reduce them to a mucous substance resembling the cellular tissue, and which, in their ordinary state, must be in an extreme degree of condensation. 544. The cartilages contain a great quantity of water,* or of serous fluid, which oozes out at the surface when they are cut, and which moistens it. In the adult man the proportion of water which they contain is to the solid substance as 2\ to 1. Cartilage when dried becomes semitransparent, yellowish, and capable of be- " Clievreul, De VInfluence que Vcau exercc, &c. in Ann. de Chitnie ct dc ritysiqut, t. xix.