310 OF THE INTERNAL .MUSCLES. The irritability or susceptibility of contraction of the internal muscles is especially remarkable in this respect, that it is naturally excited by local agents, which act upon the fibre through the medium of the membrane which covers it. At other times the cause acts in a sympathetic manner. Thus titillation of the gul- let, the presence of a bougie in the urethra, or of a suppository in the anus, determine the action of the stomach, bladder, and intes- tine. The will has little control over the contractility of these mus- cles. The oesophagus, rectum, bladder, and even the stomach, however, arc not altogether independent of it. It would even ap- pear that the uterus, at least in birds, is also sometimes subject to the will. The small intestine, on the contrary, is altogether inde- pendent of it, as is the heart also. The case of an English cap- tain, however, as related by Cheyne, and since repeated by all physiologists, and that of the late Dr. Bayle, related by M. Eibes, are adduced as instances in which the motions of the heart could be relaxed or suspended at will. But if the internal muscles are not subject to the ordinary influence of the will, strong affections of the mind and powerful emotions influence them in the most ob- vious manner. Haller, in admitting that muscular power is inherent in the muscles, and that the nervous action is but its exciting cause, had been led to admit, and most of his successors had admitted still more positively than himself, that the internal muscles are inde- pendent of the nervous action, at least in their ordinary and re- gular motions. The experiments of Legallois afterwards led to the admission of a diametrically opposite opinion. The subse- quent experiments of Mr. Clift * and Mr Wilson Philip-f- and the comparative observation of other animals, and of monstrous era, bryos and foetuses, were calculated to modify both conclusions. The facts that are known show that the internal muscles, which are independent of the nervous medulla, in animals and in mon, strous foetuses which have none, as well as in embryos, in which it is not yet formed, and which is little under its influence in the young animals in which its power has not been long established, and in the animals of another inferior order, in which the nervous action has not a well determined centre, are, on the contrary, de- pendent upon that organ in the adult man, and are especially greatly influenced by injuries inflicted upon it, and still more so by sudden lesions than by slow alterations. 707. When the internal muscles enter into contraction, they sometimes draw into a simultaneous and associated action all the external muscles which contribute to the performance of thcir function. Thus in coughing, sneezing, vomiting, defecation, par- turition, &c. a greater or less number of the muscles of the skele- ton act in unison with the internal muscles, * Philos. Trans. 1815. f An Exper. Inquiry into the Laws of the Vital Functions, &c. London, 1818.