OF THE ERECTILE TISSUE. 187 395. Nutrition, whatever may be its immediate passages, pre- sents a continual two-fold motion of composition and decomposi- tion. The most simple animals directly inhale and exhale the ma- terials of this twofold phenomenon. Other animals, of a more complex organization, have a tegument more or less prolonged into the mass of the body, conducting there and taking up again the matters which are added to it, and those which separate from it. Others, still more complex, have other organs, vessels, which transport the matters of absorption and secretion from the surfaces into all parts of the mass, and from thence to the surfaces. In certain animals provided with vessels, among which is man, their number is so great, that they seem to occupy and form the whole mass of the body. But, besides the above considerations, which are derived from analogy, the arguments derived from inspection also show that the vessels only traverse the mass of the body, and do not constitute it. Inspection also shows that, whatever may be the tenuity or softness of the last capillary vessels, the arteries and veins form continuous canals. Observation apprises us that new substances enter into the vessels, and that others also unceasingly issue from them. But this two- fold passage takes place in the finest parts of the vessels, and by paths invisible even with the best optical instruments. The sub- stances themselves pass through these passages in a state of divi- sion, being in the form of vapour, which eludes the senses, and is imperceptible with the best microscopes. This passage, whether it take place from without inwards or from within outwards, in ab- sorptions and extrinsic secretions, or in the closed cavities of the body, always appears to be performed through the intervention of the solid and permeable substance of the body ; that is to say, of the substance called cellular, which by imbibing transmits inwards or outwards the inhaled or exhaled molecules. It appears to be the same with nutrition. The vessels deposit and take up under the form of vapour, and by invisible passages, in the cellular substance, the molecules of the composition and de- composition of the organs. But all these phenomena, which are apparently physical, are modified by the organized and living body in which they take place. It is especially to the unknown cause of these phenomena that the name of vital power has been given, or more particularly that of power of formation. II. OF THE ERECTILE TISSUE. 396. The erectile, cavernous or spongy tissue, consists of ter- minations of blood-vessels, and especially roots of veins, which, in place of being capillary, have more width, are very extensile, and are connected with numerous nervous filaments. 397- This tissue was first observed in the penis, where it exists