73 OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. the face, the orbits, the cheeks, contain a great quantity of it. It is also plentiful in the neck, along the vessels and between the muscles, and in the thorax, between the lamina? of the mediasti- num, and at the exterior of that cavity, around the mammas. The abdomen, both in its interior and in the substance of its parietes, contains a great quantity of cellular tissue. In the extremities, it is abundant in the groin, the f^xilla, the ham, the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot, and forms layers of greater or less thickness between the muscles. In general, the most important organs are those which are most plentifully surrounded with cellu- lar tissue. It is also more abundant in the places which are the seat of great motions. Moreover, as it envelopes all the organs, and everywhere forms the partitions by which they are separated, there is necessarily more of it wherever these organs are numerous. Of this we may mention the neck as an example. 138. The continuity of the cellular tissue is more especially visible in the great vacuities which the organs leave between each other. In the neck, the continuity of this tissue is manifest with that of the head above, and that of the interior of the thorax be- low. The apertures of this cavity which communicate with the upper extremities, equally present a very marked continuity be- tween the cellular tissue of the thorax and that of the upper ex- tremities. In like manner, ftk the abdomen, the sciatic notch, the inguinal ring, the crural arch, &c. present, in an obvious manner, the continuity of the cellular tissue from the interior to the exte- rior of the belly, and from thence to the inferior extremities. Along the vertebrate canal, the invertebral foramina establish a communication between the interior and exterior of that canal. The foramina of the base of the skull, in like manner, establishes a communication between that cavity and the external parts of the head. The continuity of the cellular tissue is not confined to the places alone which we have just mentioned, but is shown by various phenomena, of which we shall speak as we proceed, to be of general occurrence in all the vacuities that are left between the organs, only it is more decided wherever the vacuities are them- selves very large. It will readily be perceived that the rounded form of the organs must render these vacuities very numerous. 139. The other division of the cellular tissue furnishes to each organ in particular, an envelope which is proper to it, and pene- trates moreover into its substance. This disposition has given rise to two subdivisions. The cellular tissue which forms the envelope of the organs, (textus cellularis strictus,) has been con- sidered by Bordeu as a kind of atmosphere which puts limits to their action and mordid phenomena, and prevents their extending from the one to the other. This idea, which has been adopted by Bichat, appears to me to have little foundation. The differ- ence of their organization is the sole cause of this isolation which the organs present in their action, as well as in their diseases. Be this as it may, the cellular layer which surrounds the organs varies in thickness. Those excepted which have envelopes of a different