APPENDIX. 391 frequently necessitated, in such cases, by the long continuance of the disease, and the little hopes of recovering. 3d, Sloughing soros, as in hospital gangrene ;—these require little illustration. They destroy the integuments and soft parts ; and, ulti- mately laying bare the bone, it also perishes, giving rise to successive amputations on the same limb. Case VIII.—W. S. of the regiment of infantry at Pampeluna, on 26th July 1813, received a gunshot wound in the ankle joint; gangrene seized the limb eight months afterwards, at Passages, where it became necessary to amputate above the knee-joint. He was afterwards placed in Plymouth Hospital, the stump being open all the time. Whilst in the above hospital, a large internal exfolia- tion or sequestrum was extracted. The stump, notwithstanding, did not heal; and it was deemed necessary to amputate the limb higher up. The operation was performed on 25th January 1817, and the stump was nearly well in the month of March 1817. On examina- tion, the portion of bone amputated was found much diseased in structure, but there was no necrosed portion remaining. The peri- osteum was thickened and vascular ; the upper portion of bone much increased in size, apparently from the deposition of new bone within its own substance ; the number of foramina indicated its great vascu- larity. An extensive caries was found about the middle of this portion of bone. No ossification of the periosteum was perceptible. 4th, Protrusion of the bone from great retraction of the muscles and skin, after amputation, from any cause whatever. The following case is selected from the Memoirs of the French Academy, in illus- tration of the above cause assigned for necrosis, such instances being rarely met with in British practice. Case IX—" Un soldat recut un coup de feu qui traversoit l'articula- tion du genou. Un mois ou six semaines apres sa blessure, la malade fut en etat d'etre transports a l'Hopital de Gard, Une longue diette, une suppuration abondante, et la formation de plusieurs depots con- siderables, avoient epuise le malade. M. Attouel lui coupat la cuisse en deux temps; et malgre toutes les precautions qu'il avoit prises, l'os fit une saillie considerable. M. Attouel ne crut pas devoir re- trancher cette portion d'os avec la scie. II borna les chairs au ni- veau de la cicatrice, qui commencoit a se faire, en appliquant sur l'os des plumasseaux trempes dans l'eau mercurielle, avec l'attention de garantir les environs, de Taction de ce medicament. L'usage de cette eau continuee pendant quelques jours, fit assez d'effet pour consumer l'os dans toutes sa circonference a la profondeur de deux on trois lignes. II ebranloit legerement la piece de temps en temps; elle se separa entitlement vers la cinquantieme jours de l'operation; et la guerison parfaite suivit de pres la chute de cette portion d'os." The French surgeon blames the application of caustic for the pecu- liar form assumed by the sequestrum ; but no sufficient reason is assign- ed for such an opinion. I shall afterwards endeavour to show, that sequestra, or exfoliations forming in stumps, generally affect the forms already alluded to, whatever may have been the cause producing the death of the bone; and it is remarkable that, in the Memoir of M. Louis, whence the above extract was taken, and in the very next observation to the