80 OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. tissue, it is without dispute one of the most important in the ani- mal constitution. t 150. The phenomena of the cellular tissue, whether in health, or in disease, are connected with those of the other parts. Thus, the organic lesions of the heart, and the derangements of the respi- ration and pulmonary perspiration, often determine in it an accu- mulation of serous fluid. The same thing takes place in the al- terations of the different secretions, and especially of the cutaneous transpiration. Its inflammations commonly produce fever. The suppurative inflammation which is excited in it by setons and other means, often cause the inflammations of other organs to cease. 151. The cellular tissue is subject to various morbid alterations. When it is cut into and laid bare, it inflames, becomes covered vrithjleshy granulations, suppurates, and is at length covered over by a cicatrix or new skin, which will be elsewhere described, (Chap. IH.) When it is divided and placed in contact with itself, it adheres at first by means of a fluid poured out by the divided surfaces when the bleeding and pain have ceased. At a later period, this organizable substance becomes a highly vascular tissue. The lips of the wound can then no longer be separated without producing pain and renewing the flow of blood. This new tissue remains for a long time more compact, firmer and more vascular than the cel- lular tissue which it unites, and with which it is ultimately con- founded. It is by a similar production that all the unions of di- vided parts are produced, with modifications relative to each tissue, and which will be examined in their own place. It is in the same manner also that the adhesions take place be- tween the contiguous surfaces of serous tegumentary membranes, and which will be described when we come to speak of these mem- branes. (Chap. II., III.) The cellular tissue is susceptible of an extraordinary increase; it sometimes gives out a kind of vegetations or vascular exuber- ances, when it is denuded. The reproduction of this tissue is also, in general, so much the more easy, the more there remains of it in the part that has been injured. It would seem that this reproduc- tion depends in a great measure upon the extension of the pre-ex- isting cellular tissue. Inflammation of the cellular tissue, or phlegmon, is characteriz- ed by various changes which that tissue undergoes. The first of these changes is a very decided increase of vascularity. The cel- lular tissue when inflamed becomes, moreover, sensible and painful. It entirely loses its permeability, and fluids cease to make their way through it; its consistence is augmented, and its tenacity di- minishes ; it tears or breaks under pressure, in place of elongating, as it previously did. This kind of fragility, which the cellular tis- sue acquires, accounts for certain phenomena; it explains why the ligature of a vessel often determines the section of the surrounding tissues; why, after peritonitis, it is sometimes so