OF THE HUMAN BODY. 45 divisions of the body, and the subdivisions are principally deter- mined by the bones. The knowledge of the regions is necessary : for determining the precise situation of the organs, and their mi- i nute study is the surest or rather the only means of knowing the i relative situation of the parts. This knowledge constitutes a kind i of topographical anatomy of the highest interest. 68. The human body, like all organized bodies, is composed of solid parts and of fluids, which have a similar composition, and continually change into each other. The fluids exist in very large quantity, their general mass greatly exceeding that of the solids. Their relative proportion however cannot be exactly determined ; first, because certain fluids, as oil, are with difficulty separated from the solids ; secondly, and that more especially, because many solid parts are susceptible of being rendered fluid, and in drying, mingle with the fluid parts, and are dissipated with them. It has, however, been attempted to determine the proportion which the fluids bear to the solids, and this in two ways, first by desiccation in a furnace or stove, and secondly, by mummification. Some think the proportion of the fluids to the solids to be as 6 to 1, while others consider it to be as 9 to 1. The examination of an adult mummy has yielded a still greater predominance to the fluids, it having weighed only seven pounds and a half. But although the proportions might be accurately determined in one case, they would still vary in different individuals, as differences of age, sex, constitution, &c. would induce great modifications in them. The solids and fluids are formed of globules, and an amorphous substance, which is fluid in some and concrete in others. 69- The chemical composition * of the solids and fluids of the human body, results from a certain number of immediate sub- stances, the principal of which are gelatin, albumen, mucus, fibrin, oil, water, sugar, resin, urea, picrocholine, osmazome, zoohema- tine, phosphate of lime, carbonate of lime, &c. These substances themselves are compound, and the elementary principles which oc- cur in the human body are oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, azote, phos- phorus, calcium, sulphur, potassium, sodium, chlorine, iron, and manganese. There are even found in it magnesium and silicium. These elementary substances, to form the immediate principles, and the latter to compose the solid and fluid parts of the body, are combined in the acts of nutrition and generation in a manner which chemistry is unable to imitate; and it is precisely this act of formation or of organization that characterizes life. OF THE HUMOURS. 70. The fluids or humours of the human body-f- arc contained in the solids and penetrate all their parts. They are composed of * See Orfila, Chimie Mediate. t See Plcnck, Ilygrologia corporis hnmani—Chaussicr, Tabic Synoptiquc <Us Hu- meurt.