OF THE L1GAMKNTS. two different effects in the ligaments, an extreme softening and a loss of their tenacity or accidental ossification. The latter change is the more frequent. The other is especially observed in the scrofulous diseases of the joints. 514. According to their connexions and uses, the ligaments are distinguished into articular and non-articular or mixed. The ar- ticular are those which are attached by their extremities to differ- ent bones which they connect together, and are the most import- ant. The non-articular are those which being attached to parts of the same bone, serve to close notches, as at the orbitar arch and at the upper edge of the scapula, or to close an aperture and give at- tachment to muscles, as the obturator ligament of the infra-pubic foramen. The mixed ligaments are those which, like the sacro- sciatic and intcrosseus ligament of the fore-arm and leg, attach themselves to different bones, but are especially subservient to the insertion of muscles. The articular ligaments are distinguished into capsular and fu- nicular. The capsular ligaments or fibrous capsules consist of cylindrical ligamentous sheaths which surround the articulation, are attached by their two ends to the two articulated bones, and are lined inter- nally by the synovial membrane. These capsules, while they con- nect the bones in a firm manner, permit motions in all directions. They are nearly peculiar to the shoulder and hip joints, although rudiments of them occur in some others, in which irregular bundles strengthen the synovial membrane in several points of its contour. The cords or ligamentous bundles of the articulations are round- ed strings or flattened bands, situated for the most part at the out- side of the joints, and only some of them within the articular cavi- ties. Both kinds permit motion in some directions, and prevent or limit it in others. The external ligaments are for the most part placed at the two sides of the articulation, and for this reason are called lateral liga- ments. Many of the joints are furnished with them. Others are anterior or posterior. Some, on account of their direction, are called crucial ligaments. All these ligaments, which are attached by their two ends to the bones, correspond by one of their sur- faces to the synovial membrane, and by the other to the surround- ing common cellular tissue, muscles and tendons. "The internal ligaments are surrounded by a sheath furnished by the synovial membrane which is reflected at their two extremities, (212.)