153 OF THE SKIN IN GENERAL. functions highly developed, excepting at the expense of the other. Accordingly, the thicker and more defensive the corpus mucosum I and epidermis are, the blunter is the touch. 319. The embryo, towards the middle of the second month, has ias yet no distinct skin. About this period, according to Autcn- rrieth, the epidermis begins to appear. Until the middle of the fifth month the epidermis remains thin, colourless, and transparent. 1 It then becomes of a rosy tint, and continues so until about the eight i month. At this period it becomes paler, excepting in the folds. About the middle of the fifth month of gestation, the sebaceous i follicles begin to make their appearance, first in the head, then in the other parts of the body. At the seventh month, the sebaceous i covering of the skin begins to appear. At birth the skin is cover- i ed with it, and is of a pale rose colour. After birth, the skin pre- : sently acquires the colour peculiar to the race, and increases in thickness and strength until adult age. In old age, it dries, be- • comes wrinkled, and gradually loses its colour. The skin is thinner, more delicate and softer in the female sex, but these characters sometimes disappear after the age of fecundi- ty 320. The differences which the skin presents in the different ; races have already been pointed out, (§§ 112-116.) The indi- viduals of the coloured races, and even negroes themselves, are nearly of the same colour as whites at birth. The colour begins to show itself the moment the child respires, but more especially towards the third day after birth, around the nails, the nipples, the eyes, the anus, and the organs of generation. By the seventh day the colouring has become general, the palmar and plantar re- gions alone remaining whitish. During the first year the colour is but light, it afterwards increases, and continues through the greater part of fife to diminish in old age. The smell of the skin varies in the different races, like its colour. Besides the national varieties, there occur very numerous variations in individuals. 321. The morbid alterations of the skin are extremely nume- rous. We have already spoke of the cicatrices or accidental re- production of that membrane, (§ 258.) The new tissue is similar to the old, but is not identical with it. The dermis is denser in it, less areolar, more compact, less vascular, and less papillar than that of the skin. The epidermis distinctly exists in it, although this has recently been denied. The corpus mucosum also exists, as well as its coloured layer, and Camper was deceived when he asserted that the cicatrices of negroes are white, the shade being in them merely a little different. These sometimes form horny productions on the cicatrices. These accidental teguments are very susceptible of ul- ceration. There also sometimes occurs accidental skin in cysts of the ovaries. These are probably imperfect foetal productions, whether engendered or enveloped in the fcetal state, by the individual which contains them.