OF THE ARTERIES. * I.angcnbcek. Nutol, und i/tciaj> der Chir. Krankhcitcn. Goetting. 182?. vol. i. tery to the aorta and its branches, which he imagines to contain a vapour. The Alexandrian school distinguishes the arteries from the veins by the thickness of the walls, and admits that the blood may, in certain circumstances, pass into the arteries. Galen, the greatest anatomist of antiquity, tries to prove that the arteries are full of blood in the natural state. He considers the venous system and the arterial system each as a tree, whose roots, inserted in the lungs, and whose branches, distributed through the whole body, meet in the heart. We must come up to Vesalius before we find the first rudiments of the art of injecting the vessels, and the first ideas respecting the texture of the blood-vessels. Their functions and alterations were not known till afterwards. 407. There are two arterial trunks : the aorta and pulmonary artery. Each of them has a branched disposition, and presents an origin, a trunk, branches, twigs, and ramuli becoming smaller and smaller until they terminate. Each of the arterial trunks arises from a ventricle of the heart, and there presents, not a continuation of the substance of the heart, as has lately been alleged,* but an intimate and very remarkable connexion. The middle membrane of the artery is divided into three festoons, edged with ligamentous tissue, the orifice of the ventricle is furnished with a ring of the same tissue, the summit of the festoons of the artery is firmly attached to the orifice of the ventricle, and the triangular intervals of the serratures are equally occupied by ligamentous membranes. The inner membrane of the vessel is continuous with that of the heart, and the outer mem- brane unites with the substance of that organ. The trunks, the branches, and all the divisions of the arteries are sensibly cylindrical. There are some exceptions, however: certain arteries become wider, and others seem to contract. The arterial cylinders diminish from the trunk to the last ramifications. In general, the sum of the branches is greater than the trunk which furnishes them, but there are exceptions. Thus, it is not evident that the carotid artery and the brachial trunk have toge- ther a greater capacity than the arteria innominata, and, in like manner, it is not certain that the radial and cubital arteries to- gether are more capacious than the humeral artery. In this com- parison the external diameter must not be confounded with the ca- pacity. Besides, there happen every instant changes of capacity in arterial twigs, without the branches becoming perceptibly changed, and, to mention only a single obvious example, the ute- rine arteries greatly enlarge during gestation, the hypogastric ar- tery enlarges a little, and the iliac artery undergoes no perceptible increase. The variable number of the successive divisions of the arteries, their mode of division, and the angles which the branches form with the trunks have been already indicated, (354, et seq.) as well