330 OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The white substance alone forms a continuous whole. The grey substance, on the contrary, is met with only in certain places. It occurs wherever the central extremities of the nerves are inserted. It has even been supposed that it also exists at their peripheral ex- ' tremity, and especially in the corpus mucosum of the skin. It is also met with wherever the white fibres acquire growth and seem to expand, as in the peduncles of the brain and cerebellum. It has even been thought that it exists in the ganglia, but this opinion is erroneous. The fibrous texture of the nervous substance had been perceived in the white substance by Malpighi, but he considered the grey substance as glandular. This opinion of Malpighi respecting the grey substance, was long admitted in conjunction with the hypothetical opinion that the nerves are hollow. For Malpighi's opinion respecting the grey substance, there were afterwards substituted, those of a point of origin (Gall,) a centre of action (Ludwig,) &c. 749- The nervous substance, whether medullary or cineritious, when examined with the microscope,* and magnified about three hundred diameters, appears in all its parts composed of semi-trans- parent globules, connected by a transparent and viscous substance. TheseglobulesappearedtoDellatorre different in volume in the brain, spinal marrow and nerves, the largest being in the brain, and the smallest in the nerves. They seemed to him heaped together with- out order in the central nervous mass, and arranged in linear series in the nerves. As to the fluid in which they are contained, it ap- peared to him to be but slightly viscous in the brain, more so in the spinal marrow, and still more so in the nerves. These glo- bules and the fluid in which they are immersed, which are furnish- ed and continually supplied by the influx of the arterial blood, pro- ceed, according to him, from the brain, as a centre, to all the parts of the body, and vice versa. Their flux from the brain to the muscles determines motion, and their reflux from the organs of sense to the brain produces feeling. This absurd explanation ought to be separated from the pretty correct anatomical observation on which it rests. Prochaska having examined with the microscope a slice of ner- vous substance thin enough to be transparent, found that it re- sembled a kind of pulp formed of innumerable globules or round particles. By the action of water this pulp separated into small flakes, and each flake was still composed of a certain number of globules. Maceration, even when prolonged during three months, is insufficient for separating the globules from each other. He concluded from this that the medium by which they are united is a delicate cellular tissue, formed in part by the blood-vessels, and * J. M. Dellutorre. Nnove Osserv. Micros, in Napoli. 1776—Prochaska. Be Struct. Ncrv.—J. nn.l CM. Wenzell. Dc Pmitiori Struct, cerebri. Tubing, 1812. A. Barba. Otserv. mlcrosb. ml cervello e sulk parti adjacent!. Napoli. 1807—Home and Bauor. Phil. Trans. 1821.