OF THE ORGANISM. 5<) tion, kc. There has also been admitted, under the name of plas- tic force or power, formative power, or vital affinity, a power of formation, which is common to all organic bodies and to all their parts. * 100. The solid parts of organized bodies, and especially of ani- mals, receive from various agents impressions which are immedi- ately followed by more or less appreciable motions. These have been called motions of irritation, and the power or cause to which they are attributed is named irritability, f All animal parts are susceptible of them, but in very different degrees. Three princi- pal varieties of these motions are distinguished. In the cellular tissue, where it exists in a feeble degree, it is called tonicity ; in the vessels, where it is more observable, it is called vascular con- tractility ; and in the muscles, where it exists in the highest de- gree, it is named muscular irritability or myotility. It is to be remarked, that all these motions consist of contrac- tions. It has been imagined, however, that certain motions depend upon an expansion, elongation, or turgescence ;| but this opinion has resulted from imperfect observation. 101. In man, and those animals which have distinct nerves and a nervous centre, the impressions received are transmitted by the nerves, and felt at the centre ; and the centres transmit their ac- tion by the nerves to the muscles. The cause to which these phe- nomena are referred, is called the nervous power, and, in a word, sensibility. Of the sensations, some are extremely obscure and vaguely perceived. § They are almost generally diffused, but es- pecially in the mucous membranes. In the state of health they constitute a general feeling joi comfort; and when exalted by cer- tain causes, give rise to a morbid sensation, which is called pain. There is no part of the body that may not be the seat of this mor- bid sensibility. The other sensations are distinct, and some of them entirely special. The nervous action applied to the muscles directs their irritabi- lity. It also acts upon the vessels, especially the smaller ones. The intellectual and moral actions differ so much from the or- ganic phenomena, that they cannot depend upon the same cause; for were it so, they would be blind and necessary, in place of being open and free. Physiology, which, on the one hand, approaches physics or natural philosophy, here touches moral philosophy or metaphysics. 102. The functions are not exercised, or, in other words, the vital powers do not enter into action spontaneously, but through the action of stimulants or excitatives, whether these stimulants be the bodies which act upon the external and internal surfaces of our body, or the blood which penetrates into all its parts: with " See Blumenbach. Ubcr den liUdutigstricb, Gottingen. •f See Giiutier, de Irrilabililalli N„liunr, Natura ct Mollis, llulle, 1793. t See Hebenstrelf, de Tnrgorc Vitatt. Li]>.siai, 1795. § See Hubucr, dc CvinocUhcsi; llulte, 1794.