sis k.. ^ 11 laleiit, OF THE CARTILAGES IN GENERAL. 243 Nut,. ,!ltt 4rt fie b«} and hare no other oloui, and semi-trmspa, e/are the hardest parts ;cs prat whet re; but appear re a« This circumstance let! .ected with the cart^ j jr tissue face w ,portio»ot 1. ^ ftf M ag torn. When immersed in water it in four days reacquires its weight and volume, its white colour and its flexibility, and loses its ^transparency. 545. When submitted to the action of boiling water, in thin aminse, it at first curls and becomes yellow and opaque. The prolonged action of boiling water upon the cartilages esta- blishes a difference among them, founded also upon other charac- ters ; the articular cartilages are resolved into jelly by decoction, tthe others, on the contrary, resist its action. Alcohol renders the I ceartilages a little opaque. Diluted acids have no action upon i tbhem, when concentrated, they act as upon the epidermis. Their i cihemical analysis is imperfect. It has been vaguely repeated, af- t<fer Haller, that they are composed of gelatine and earth. Ac- cording to Mr. Allen, they consist of gelatine and a hundredth part cof carbonate of lime. Ilatchett says, that they are formed of coa- gulated albumen and traces of phosphate of lime, but it is not idtnown of what kind of cartilage he speaks- M. Chevreul has ffifound, that the cartilaginous bones of the shark are composed of loail, mucous, acetic acid and some salts. Mr. J. Davy has found jccartilage to be formed of albumen 4 to 5, water 55, and phos- phate of lime 0.5. 546. The most remarkable physical properties of the cartilages ias elasticity. They do not elongate and return upon themselves, Hike the elastic tissue, nor, like the chondroid ligaments, do they in ggeneral yield to pressure, and afterwards resume their thickness ; bbut they are flexible, and return to their original state with force aand celerity when the cause of flexion ceases to act. The articular ceartilages alone are elastic in the same manner as the fibro-carti- Uaginous tissue. 547. The vital properties and the phenomena of formation, ir- rritation, and sensation, are extremely obscure in the cartilaginous ttissue. It is not known if it be to the articular cartilages, or ra- tther to the synovial membranes which cover them, that the pain iis to be attributed which the foreign bodies of the articulations ccause when they become engaged between the surfaces. 548. The functions of the cartilages depend solely upon their ^physical properties; upon their solidity, which renders them (fitted for preserving the form of certain parts, and their flexibility II aand elasticity, which allows them to yield, and immediately resume ijttheir original form. 549. In the embryo and fetus the cartilages are soft, mucous, llaand transparent, like jelly or glue. The proportion of water which iltthey then contain is excessively large. In the child they still rhave little colour or elasticity, and are very transparent and soft. They then acquire the whiteness, firmness, and semiopacity by 1 which they are characterized. In old age they become whiter or ryyellowish, more opaque, less flexible, more brittle and drier; the ^proportion of water diminishes in them, and that of the earthy sub- sstancc increases. They generally end with ossifying, at least in