and Si 1ScWh V, Wood T '»e £' %^vbe. te^inthesub. ras! sometimes in e of the serous rneni. a bulbous root, in the the bones also. They and under the mucous la mater are sometimes seen once in the kin, : cicatrices of the liver, ray near the ligamen- sue, not fibrous, nor oyant, feeble, d re- »ttausfotmed into this iseenD" the subpen- •,uc ^ ' ■P ©F THE UGAiMENTS. 231 It generally terminates by resolution, pretty frequently also by (.production of a plastic or organi/.able matter, which is sometimes : absorbed, and sometimes gives rise to accidental ossification. Chro- mic inflammation of this tissue makes it lose its tenacity, and i also sometimes gives rise to its ossification. Some funguses of the dura mater, certain polypi of the nasal fos- :sse, and posterior parts of the nostrils, certain cpulies, and some tu- mours of the periosteum, are morbid productions or cancerous al- literations of the ligamentous tissue. SECOND SECTION. OF THE XIGAMENTQUS ORGANS IN FARTICULAR. 511. Keeping the fibro-cartilaginous tissue out of sight for the •moment, the fibrous organs may be divided into those which at- .tach the bones to each other, those which connect the muscles with the bones, and those which form envelopes. ARTICLE I. OF THE LIGAMENTS. 512. The Ligaments,* Ligamenta, Nervi coUigantes, tfyhStw* are fibrous parts which attach the bones and cartilages to each other. The same name has improperly been given to many other parts, and especially to bridles formed by folds of the serous and mucous membranes, to serous and adipose prolongations, &c. The true ligaments are attached by their two extremities to the bones and periosteum, and that so firmly, that in the adult it re- quires a very advanced putrefaction to detach them. In children they separate from the bones along with the periosteum after a short maceration. The fibrous tissue which forms them is very dense, and disposed in rmore or less distinct bundles very closely connected. Some have even the apparent homogeneousness of cartilages. By decoction they are resolved, although with great difficulty, into gelatine and albumen. 513. The ligaments are often affected with inflammation, whe- ther through mechanical causes, as those of sprains and fractures in the articular parts of the bones, or through the vicinage of in- flamed synovial membranes, or through the specific causes of rheumatism of the joints or the gout. Inflammation gives rise to * Jos. Weitbrcclit. Syvdcsmologia sive Hisioria Ligamcnl. corp. Iihih. ijr. cum flgiuit. 4to. Petropol. 17<l?.