175 OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. cles of the lymphatic vessels participate in this minuteness, yet it is more especially of the capillary blood vessels that we intend here to speak. 376. The ancients, who were ignorant of the art of injecting the vessels, as well as of that of magnifying objects by means of opti- cal instruments, were not acquainted with the minute vessels. They imagined that there was between the last divisions of the arteries and the first divisions of the veins, an effused sanguineous substance of a spongy nature, called parenchyma^ by Erasistratus, and haimalope, by Areteus, and of which they believed especially that the viscera were formed. This opinion respecting the termi- nations of the vessels was almost unanimously admitted by anato- tomists until the discovery of the circulation of the blood ; and since that period it has been admitted by a considerable number of ana- tomists, and even by some of those of our own times. However, the injections of Ent,* by showing the direct passage, without effusion of the injected fluid, from the arteries into the veins, and the microscopic observations of Malpighrj* and Leuwen- hoeck| made on transparent parts of reptiles, fishes, and even bats, in which the blood is seen to pass directly from the arteries into the veins ;—experiments and observations which have been a thou- sand times repeated since,—have repudiated, and deservedly, the alleged parenchyma interposed between the terminations of the ar- teries and veins, by disclosing, beyond the last divisions visible to the naked eye, microscopical divisions establishing a direct com- munication between them. Subtile injections and microscopical observations soon led to the rejection of the parenchyma of the ancients, and the admission of every thing being vascular in the body ;—an opinion which anato- mists still hold. 377- The capillary blood-vessels are the last ramuscules of the arteries and the first radicles of the veins, or they are interme- diate between the arteries and veins, and, as has been said in com- paring them to the system of the vena portae, foreign, or belonging indifferently to either. It is in these vessels that the arteries change into veins, which takes place insensibly and without deter- minate limits. This is known by the successive change of volume which the vessels undergo in one or other direction, by the direc- tion in which the successive divisions or unions take place, and, at the extremity of the fins and tail of fishes, by the opposite direc- tion of the course of the blood. However, the capillary vessels have pretty generally been described as the last divisions of the arteries, rather than as the first of the veins ; whether this be real- ly accordant with truth, and depend upon the circumstance that the minute veins, which are larger than the minute arteries, ac- # Apologia pro Circulat. Sanguin. in Op. Leidae, 1687. f De Pulmonibus Epist. ii. In Oper. Omn. \ Exp. H Contempt. Arcan. Nalur. Dcttct. Epiit. §c. 65, 67, &c