OF TH>E ORGANS. 55 dermic- substances are remarkable for the case and celerity with which they are reproduced. 92. The names of fibre, tissue, organ, &c. designate in general the organic solids. It is necessary, however, to limit the sense that is to be attached to them. A tissue is any part that possesses a pecidiar texture. The tissue differs from the fibre only in the lat- ter being finer and forming its component part. A tissue may be formed by similar or different fibres. An organ commonly results from the association of several tissues. These distinctions, how- ever, are not absolute. Thus the cellular tissue represents at the same time a peculiar fibre, a tissue formed by that fibre, and an important organ of the economy. In general, the fibre is the ele- ment, the tissue indicates the arrangement of the parts, and the organ is a compound part which exercises a proper function. Al- most all the solids are formed by the celluhxr fibre and its two mo- difications. Some tissues have for their basis the muscular and nervous fibres ; and one only, which is the tegumentary, contains epidermic substance. The organs are almost always more or less compound parts. Thus, in a muscle, there occur the muscular fibre, the cellular tissue which surrounds it, and at the extremities the tendon in which it terminates. In like manner, in a nerve, there is in the centre a soft and medullary substance, and at the exterior, a peculiar membrane which bears the name of neurilema. Certain parts, as the stomach and eye, are still more compound. In general, every organ or acting part contains cellular tissue, ves- sels and nerves. The cellular tissue is the most generally diffused, there being no part in which it is not met with in one form or other ; next to this tissue, the vessels are of most general occurrence. With a small number of exceptions, vessels of different kinds, white or red, are found in all parts. The nerves are less abun- dant than the vessels, and of course still less so than the cellular tissue ; most of the organs, however, are furnished with them. The latter may, therefore, be regarded as parts into the composi- tion of which there always enters cellular tissue, almost always vessels, and most commonly nervous tissue. The viscera or splanchnic organs derive their name from the im- portance of their uses. They are the organs most essential to life, those by which we live; they are the most compound organs; and are situated in the three cavities of the body, which are named splanchnic. They comprehend the organs of digestion, generation, and urinary secretion, which are contained in the abdomen; those of circulation and respiration, which are contained in the thorax ; and the sensorial and nervous organs, which are lodged in the head and vertebral canal. It is especially to the thoracic and abdominal organs, and more particularly to the latter that the name of viscera is given. 93. By system or genus is meant, the association uf parts re- sembling each other in their texture, as the bones, the muscles, the ligaments, &c. This corresponds to the similar parts of the an-