101 CF TIIR SEROUS MEMBRANES. that the nutritive matter, thus alternately deposited and taken up, undergoes a more perfect assimilation before being employed for the nutrition of the organs. 191. The action of the serous membranes, whether in health or more particularly in disease, is closely connected with the other or- ganic actions. Thus, when they are diseased, the functions of the organs which they invest are more or less disturbed ; this disturb- ance extends to a distance, and frequently to the whole organism. In like manner, the affections of the other organs, especially those of the tegumentary membranes, organs of circulation, and glands, often derange their functions. The affections of the organs which they invest, always alter them in a more or less sensible degree. On the one hand, the cavity which they form establishes a true sepa- ration between the parts over which their two opposite portions are spread out; and on the other hand, the continuity and extent of each of these membranes, easily give rise to very extensive affec- tions. 192. The serous system is very soft at its commencement, which, however, is little known. In the embryo, the abdominal viscera seem only covered by a fluid and viscous varnish. The serous membranes are very thin in the foetus, and, in general, less adherent, on account of the softness of the cellular tissue which connects them with the neighbouring parts, so that they are easily separated from these parts. However, on the articular cartilages and the tunica albuginea of the testicle, the adhesion is nearly as intimate as it is afterwards. It is entirely unknown whether these membranes, whose essential character is the interruption of conti- nuity which they establish between the parts, are at first soft cellu- lar tissue continuous and without internal cavity, as is affirmed by some anatomists, who admit that there exists at the commencement a general continuity among all the parts, among the bones, for ex- ample. The fluid of the serous membranes is at first very scanty. Some of these membranes, those of the splanchnic cavities, present remarkable differences of conformation in the foetus. The serous membranes undergo various changes in old age. 193. The formation of an incidental serous tissue is often ob- served. Its reparation or reproduction takes place in wounds of the serous membranes, which unite when their edges are in im- mediate contact. Observation has shown that the opinion of the ancients, who believed wounds of this kind to be incapable of heal- ing, is entirely without foundation. When there is loss of sub- stance in these wounds, or when their edges are separated, the in- terval which they present is filled up by a new membrane, forming a true cicatrix. This new part appears to be somewhat thinner and more extensile than the surrounding membrane. 194. The fluid contained in the cavities of the serous membranes is capable of accumulating in it, whether by the absorption being diminished, or by the exhalation being increased. This accumu- lation gives rise to various dropsies. The fluid which form these