OF THE COMMON ADIPOSE TISSUE. 91 as those in the fat, only they are more numerous. A cellular enve- lope, like that which surrounds the muscles, sometimes of a den- sity approaching that of the fibrous membranes or cysts, commonly exists around the tumour. This membrane contains pretty large vessels. The lipomata, external to the peritonaeum, sometimes present the appearance of the omentum when they are drawn out. In general, however, these tumours contain much fewer vessels than other tumours of the same size. Authors have spoken of adipose transformations of the muscles. The following is what I have learned on this subject, from a cer- tain number of observations. The muscles often become entirely white in palsies ; their fibres diminish in size at the same time, and as this alteration is especially observed in old persons, in whom the fat is more abundant in the interior, and the rest of the part still further increases the quantity of that fluid, there results a fatty appearance of the muscles, which has been mistaken for a real transformation of them into fat. But in these muscles we find the fibrine which is proper to them, when they are submitted to the action of alcohol, to that of absorbent paper, when they are boiled in water, and when exposed to direct heat from fire. There is therefore only a discolouration of the muscles, and not a conver- sion of them into fat. M. Vauquelin and M. Chevreul, have ob- tained the same results in the analyses which they have made of these muscles. There is no adipose transformation in the bones either; only the marrow, which occupies their interior, may be- come very abundant. The liver is sometimes the seat of an adipose transformation, which has not been sufficiently examined. The inflammations which supervene in regions in which the adi- pose tissue is very abundant, have a peculiar tendency to terminate in gangrene. This observation, which was long ago made with respect to very fat animals, such as hogs and sheep, when they experience punctures, applies to man also, in whom wounds and infiltrations, especially of urine or stercoraceous matter, in the adi- pose tissue, are followed by very extensive gangrenes. The very small proportion of living parts which the adipose tissue contains may account for these phenomena. Something similar is seen in hernia of the omentum. When large masses of omentum are left at the exterior, it then happens that this organ rots at its surface. There flows from it an abundant oil, and when once its bulk is considerably diminished by this, there only remains a red and very vascular fungus, formed by the cellular tissue existing among the fat, and by the development of vessels. In a case of hepatitis, Dr. Traill of Liverpool, found in the se- rum of the blood extracted by bleeding a remarkable quantity of oil, being in the proportion of about two and a half to a hundred parts of serum. Cysts of the ovary also pretty frequently contain fat with hairs and sometimes teeth, but the alteration is then very complex, and this is not the place for describing it. Biliary calculi are sometimes formed of a fat matter named clwlcsterine. The