47 OP THE HUMAN BODY. when removed from the vessels, must not be confounded with an alleged gas that is supposed to circulate with it. Shortly after the coagulation of the blood into a single mass, it separates into two parts. The coagulum contracts and presses out the fluid part or serum which it contained. The continued con- traction, and, consequently, the quantity of serum expressed, in- crease until the period of putrefaction commences. The upper sur- face of the coagulum generally contracts more than the rest, and be- comes concave. If the clot is washed under a thin stream of water, and at the same time gently pressed for a considerable period, the water carries off the colouring matter or cruor, and there remains a white fibrinous mass. Thus, by coagulation and washing, the blood is divided into serum, cruor, and fibrin. But the following are the circumstances which take place in these operations. As soon as the blood is out of the vessels, the colouring matter of the particles leaves the white central globule, and the particles, freed of their envelope, unite together and form filaments which collect into a network in which are found contained the colouring matter and many entire particles which have not undergone this decomposition. When the clot is kneaded and washed, the water carries off, at the same time, the free colouring matter, and the particles which have remained entire, and which still contain a white globule in their interior. There are therefore in the blood three principal substances, the serum, the white globules and the colouring matter which enve- lopes them. The two latter, which are united in the blood when flowing in the vessels, and thus constitute the coloured particles, separate in a great measure not many moments after the blood is withdrawn from the vessels. These substances exist in very differ- ent proportions, depending upon the circumstances of age, sex, constitution, disease, &c. In the adult and healthy man, the coloured particles form a little more than an eighth of the total weight of the blood. 74. The serum has a pale greenish-yellow colour. It has the taste, smell and feel of the blood, is alkaline, and coagulates at about 69° Cels. It then resembles the boiled white of an egg, and contains in small vacuities a substance which has been taken for gelatine, but which appears to be mucus. The constituent parts of the serum are water, albumen, soda, and salts of soda. Accord- ing to M. Brande, the serum, which is nearly pure fluid albumen, may be considered as an albuminate of soda with excess of base. The coagulation appears to depend upon the neutralization of the soda necessary for its fluidity. Alcohol and most of the acids pro- duce this coagulation by removing the soda; and by the action of the galvanic pile as well as by heat, the soda transforms into mucus a small part of the albumen, while the rest coagulates. The al- bumen and the serum itself present several peculiarities which de- serve notice. The coagulum of albumen presents globules to mi- croscopic inspection, and the serum, when kept fluid in a vessel for