OF THE VIVIPAROUS VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. 39 ternally, under the kidneys. There are but one ovary and one oviduct. In most birds copulation is performed by the mere ap- plication of the anuses; some genera, however, have a regular penis. The egg when detached from the ovary has only the yelk and germ; it becomes enveloped by the white in the oviduct, and at the lower part of the same canal acquires the shell. The heat of the climate, or more commonly the incubation of the parent bird, develope the young in it. Of the Viviparous Vertebrate Animals. 60. The viviparous vertebrate animals or Mammifera, not only differ from the oviparous in their mode of generation, and in their quantity of respiration, but are especially distinguished from them by more perfect animal functions, and a greater degree of intellect, which is less controlled by instinct, and more capable of improve- ment. Their general conformation is that of the vertebrata. The splanchnic cavity of the trunk is divided into two by a complete muscular septum, called the diaphragm. With a single exception, they have the neck formed of seven vertebrae. They have a sternum to which the first ribs are attached. Their head is always articulated by two condyles with the first vertebra. Their skull has the greatest similarity in its composition. There are always found in it an occipital bone, a sphenoid bone, an eth- moid, parietal, frontal and temporal bones. Several of these bones are in the fetus divided into pieces. The face is also pretty con- stant in its composition. It is essentially formed by the upper maxillar bones, the intermaxillar bones, the palatal bones, the vomer, the nasal bones, the inferior turbinated bones the jugal bones, and the lacrymal bones. These bones by their union form the upper jaw, which is fixed to the skulL The lower jaw, which is composed of two pieces, is articulated by a projecting condyle to the temporal bones. A hyoid bone, suspended to the skull by ligaments, sustains the tongue, which is always fleshy. The fore limbs commence with an osseous cincture or shoulder formed by the scapula, which is not articulated to the spine, but in many mammifera is supported upon the sternum by means of a clavicle. The arm is formed of a single bone; the fore arm of two, the radius and ulna, the hand, by which these limbs are terminated, is composed of two rows of small bones, to which the name of carpus is given, a row of bones named metacarpus, and fingers formed each of two or three bones, which are called phalanges. The hind limbs are similarly composed, and this similarity is more or less great according as the limbs are destined for similar or different functions. In all the mammifera, excepting the cetacea, the hind limb commences with a bony girdle or pelvis formed by the haunch bones, which arc attached to the spine ; and in youth