67 ALTERATIONS OF THE ORGANIZATION. 122 The carcass* or dead body, (cadaver) is an organized body that has ceLed to live, but the term is apphcd mils The body in which the vital action has ceased is insensible. Se t and Uie capability of motion arc presently a few minutes there ate still observed particular gttlttW^B last vestiges of the life which has just been terminated and which aie Sed the first phenomena of the dead body. But the body m hi e has only an ephemeral duration. Putrefaction alwayj * under certain peculiar circumstances, seizes it at the end of a short pSod its elements disunite, and the bones alone remain for some Lie longer, to be themselves at length ^destroyed. Although all dead bodies are exposed to the alterations here mentioned, yet they do not alter in the same time and in the same manner. Age, the constitution of the individual, the proportion of its humours, the kind of death, the circumstances which have preceded it, the sea- son, the climate, the state of the atmosphere, the bodies which sur- round the carcass, &c. are so many circumstances which exercise an influence, each in its own manner, upon the development of the phenomena exhibited by dead bodies. Each organ besides under- goes alterations peculiar to itself. The following are the most ge- neral changes. 123. Heat, as well as the other phenomena of nutrition, some- times diminish before death and cease shortly after it. The cool- ing takes place gradually, and commences at the surfaces and ex- tremities. It is produced so much the more quickly, the more the subject is exhausted by old age or disease, the more it is deprived of blood, the thinner it is, and the colder the atmosphere happens to be. It may then be produced in two or three hours ; in gene- ral, however, it requires from fifteen to twenty hours, and may i even take several days. The blood is blackish, and in general re- tains its fluidity and motion so long as the dead body is warm ; the aorta and principal arteries empty themselves ; the blood generally accumulates in the vente cavae, the auricles of the heart, and the ves- sels of the lungs, and even in the veins in general, which depends upon the elasticity of the arteries and bronchi, and upon the me- chanism of the thorax. The accumulation of blood in the veins varies according to the causes of death. It is very great where there has been dyspnoea or suffocation. There then sometimes re- sult congestions, turgescences, erections, and even bloody transu- dations. The blood, obedient to gravity and the action of the ar- teries, accumulates and forms lividities in the parts which are low- est at the moment of death; and, so long as the body remains warm, the other parts are, on the contrary, pale and yellowish. During the whole of this period of cooling, the body is in general {flexible and soft, the eyes open, the lower lip and jaw pendant, and I the pupil dilated; congestions which had existed during life some- times disappear; the sphincters are relaxed, and sometimes emis- * Sec Cliaussier Tabic des P/icuomciics Cadaveriqiics.