INTRODUCTION. cicnts. By this name there have also been designated parts, such as the skin, the cellular tissue, &c. extended over the whole body, and for that reason presenting regions and divisions, but not like the preceding, distinct portions. Bichat in particular has employ- ed the word system in this acceptation. The study of the genera of organs or systems forms the subject of general anatomy, which embraces in this manner all that the parts resembling each other present in common, and at the same time, what the generally dis- tributed tissues have in common in their different parts. 94. The apparatus are collections of organs sometimes very dif- ferent in their conformation, their situation, their structure, and even their particular action, but which concur toward a common object, which is one of the functions of life. It is erroneous to con- found this association of facts with that which constitutes a system or genus of organs. The classification of the apparatus rests en- tirely upon the consideration of the functions, while that of the systems or genera rests upon the mutual resemblance of parts. The genera of organs have been enumerated above; the following is the manner in which the organs are associated so as to form ap- paratus for the performance of functions. The bones and the parts connected with them, viz. the perios- teum, the marrow, the greater part of the cartilages, the ligaments, and the synovial capsules, form an apparatus of organs which de- termines the form of the body, serves to support all the parts, and especially envelopes the nervous centres, and which, through the mobility of the articulations, receive and communicate the motions determined by the muscles. The muscles, tendons, aponeuroses, and synovial bursae, form the apparatus of motion. The cartilages and muscles of the larynx, and various other parts, form that of phonation, or the apparatus of voice. The skin, the other organs of sense, and the muscles by which they are moved, &c. form the apparatus of the sensations. The nervous centres and the nerves, form that of innervation. The alimentary canal, from the mouth to the anus, and all its numerous dependencies, constitute the apparatus of digestion. The heart and vessels, that of circulation. The lungs, that of respiration. The glands, the follicles, and the perspiratory surfaces, form the apparatus of the secretions ; but most of these organs being sub- servient to other functions, are comprehended in the apparatus of these functions. There remains only the urinary secretion, the or- gans of which form of themselves an apparatus. The genital organs constitute a different apparatus in each sex. Lastly, the egg and the foetus which it contains, form the last group or apparatus of organs.