110 SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES OF THE TENDONS. transparent, thin and soft, especially the vaginiform, which are furnished with ligamentous sheaths at the exterior. The vesicular bursas are thicker, and in some parts present a fibrous appearance. The texture of these membranes is the same as that of the other serous membranes, their tissue has a great resemblance to the cel- lular. The fibres, fringes, and adipose pellets, common to the whole serous system, occur in them also. Serous vessels, which become visible in inflammation, and some blood-vessels, which are especially apparent in the fringes, enter into the composition of these membranes, the lymphatics and nerves of which are entirely unknown. The fluid which they contain is viscous, more abun- dant than that of the subcutaneous mucus bursas, of a yellowish colour, sometimes reddish. This fluid has an oily appearance, is in part coagulable, and contains albumen and mucus. It is more vis- cous in the mucous bursa,- which are of greatest extent. M. Koch has found some difference in this fluid when examined in different animals, as in the ox, the horse, and the hog. 208. The properties of the tendinous capsules present nothing peculiar. Their functions are those of secreting and containing a mucilaginous fluid, which facilitates sliding by diminishing the loss of motions that results from friction. Little is known of the development of these membranes. Ac- cording to some, they arc numerous in young subjects, and are in part confounded in old persons in consequence of their enlarging and meeting each other. M. Seiler asserts, on the contrary, that they diminish in extent and partly disappear in old age. 209- They present some alterations.* Dropsy of them is not of rare occurrence, especially in those which are near the skin, in which case the disease is liable to be confounded with hygroma. The name of ganglion is particularly applied to the small circum- scribed tumours which result from it, and which are also frequent- ly cysts. Tumours of this kind are especially met with in the ham, at the wrist, on the foot, &c. They contain a serous fluid, which is albuminous, of a yellowish or reddish colour, in colour and consistence bearing a considerable resemblance to jelly or to gooseberry syrup. The resorption of this fluid is performed slowly. It is favoured by pressing the tumours containing it, by which it is disseminated in the cellular tissue. These tumours sometimes occur much larger. Large collections of purulent serosity which have been observed under the broad muscles of the back, the deltoid muscle, &c. and which has been confounded with the common abscesses of the cel- lular tissue, have their seat in membranes of this kind, or in mem- branes similar to them. The inflammation of the membranes of which we speak is very severe. It is observed in one of the varieties of the panaris. There result adhesions, or, in other cases, the formation of an abscess * Monro. Oj>. cit. Koch. De Moihh liHrsunini lcmUiinm MttcOsarutn, LipsJ 1790.