• 'KM . e tin,! Rk,, H tattoo,. ;1 •cot nng to them. ng boaes contious to ij their formation. Soil ic wallsof the caaaltdM it thickness, and evea kj. iifflt on liissufcject,^ , Earing laid be asj bone of a young ininsi i found the fire coverei i tfednes, soi ihe au( etattic npg, he conclude^ had enlarged by m by addition, and thmum^ <*. Ml*!* by* OV THIS BONES. £09 The broad bones of the skull pretty frequently undergo a di- jjinution in thickness of another kind in old age. It results from ihe absorption of the diploe, and the approximation of the outer Able to the inner, so as to produce at the same time a great di- minution of thickness and an external depression. It is in the pa- cetal prominences which arc frequently affected by it, that this fasting generally commences. Pretty frequently also, in old age, the articular surfaces of the txmcs of the inferior members and the faces of the vertebral arc iidened and flattened, as if they had at length yielded to pressure. 604. The form of the bones is not the only property that un- dergoes changes from the advance of age. Their consistence also nchibits remarkable changes ; the bones of children are more flexi- ble and less brittle than those of adults, and may be bent or twist- '.H in the living subject without breaking. Those of old persons^ in the contrary, are denser, harder, and more fragile than those of ddults, which circumstances added to their having become thinner, genders fractures very cdm-mon in old age. There is also a sensible I inference in the proportion of the earthy substance, it being greater pi old age than in the adult state. Thus after the growth in dimensions has terminated, the increase ff density continues in the bonesj as in all the other parts of the ody. 605. Accidental ossification* is of very frequent occurrence^ and rras known at a very early period. This ossification is rarely per- fect, and may in this respect be distinguished into several va- iceties. The least perfect kind of accidental ossification is called earthy, tt produces a white, opaque, chalky, soft, and even sometimes se- mi-fluid substance. It is composed of animal matter, in small pro- ortion, and earthy substance, and is commonly met with in cysts. °hlebolitcs are sometimes of this kind. It also occurs in isolated ■ad formless fragments, in abscesses in the lungs, in the fibrous wody of the uterus, in the cellular tissue, and in the ligaments of icersons affected with gout, in the brain, Src. Lastly, it is frc- mently met with infiltrated in the bronchial glands, the lttngs, the vvcr, the kidney, the heart, &c. The stony accidental ossification is of very frequettt occurrence, [tt is hard, opaque, and contains a greater proportion of earthy nubstance than the bones in their natural state. It is often met with under the form of a more or less thick incrustation under the kerous membranes, and especially in the walls of the arteries. It llso occurs under the form of cysts. It is observed under the pram of isolated masses in the fibrous bodies of the uterus which l ave been ossified, and in the pineal gland, where it constitutes ' >e substance called acervulus. It is also sometimes met with uiv * J- Van Heckeren. Tie Ostengcncsi Prwlcrna/urali. Lugd. Hat. 1797—Pi hayer. Mem. sur f OsitijicutloA morbide, In Archives Genet, de Hied. t. i. Tal is,