302 OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM IN GENERAL. those which, commonly taking place without consciousness and without the will, may be modified by the will. Such are the mo- tions of the diaphragm. This name is not so generally given to those which, although habitually voluntary, are exercised by ha- bit and association without being directed by the will, such as the balancing motions of the arms in walking. It is to be remarked, that apoplexy and other cerebral affections most commonly paralyse the voluntary muscles alone. 686. In general, the varied muscular motions which take place in the living body, are either associated with each other to pro- duce the same action, or opposed to each other to produce contrary actions. In the former case the muscles are called congenerous, in the other, antagonist. Antagonism is much more evident in the external muscles, as, for example, between the flexors and exten- sors, &c. It is less marked in the internal or automatic muscles, although it is not entirely foreign to them. There results, at the natural orifices, an opposition of the automatic muscles and of the voluntary muscles, as is seen between the excretory muscles, which are involuntary, and the retentor muscles or sphincters which are subject to the will. Antagonism in all cases presents this remark- able phenomenon, that the contraction of the one set of muscles is accompanied by the relaxation of the other. The congenerous or associated muscles present this important phenomenon, that their contraction is simultaneous, and that, when the exciting cause ope- rates upon one muscle only, the others nevertheless enter into ac- tion. Thus when the gullet, the orifice of the larynx, the anterior angle of the bladder, &c. are stimulated, all the muscular powers of vomiting, cough, urinary expulsion, &c. enter into action by the law of the association of congenerous muscles, at the same time with, and conformably to, the law of antagonism. In the latter case, the sphincter and constrictor muscles of the neck of the blad- der and the urethra relax. 687- The muscles continue to be irritable and contractile under various stimuli for some time after death, and after the cessation of the circulation. All the muscles do not retain their irritability the same length of time, nor do they all at once lose the susceptibility of contraction, but cease at first to be excitable by particular sti- muli. The preceding state of the health, the kind of death, and the external circumstances before death, have great influence upon the duration of muscular irritability. Galen, Harvey, and Haller knew, that the heart is generally the ultimurn moriens. Haller established an order of cessation of irritability in the different mus- cles, and also discovered different variations in this order. Zinn, Zimmermann, Oeder, Froriep, and especially Nysten, engaged in the examination of this subject. The variations which were ob- served by Haller depend greatly upon the nature of the stimulus. Thus the heart remains longer irritable by mechanical agents than any other muscle, and the muscles of the skeleton, on the contrary, remain longer excitable by galvanic irritation. The latter power