^ foots, ^ ia t > ■ vein aione, and a I«s • tie deep ,-ej. "iei siw than the deep, iesaelaijettbinftse lead are verv small. As u»u,™u. It it of the arteries, aid to lane at least. ,els is umsie aai \m- ! anatomical experiments _ wds to tie rejection of |, tie arteries. It to Lipen oririces at the sur- iranes>tie^ ce of theory ff; n in»«' OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 215 present many variations in their course; those of one side always differ more or less from those of the other. All the lymphatic vessels after a longer or shorter course, ramify in the manner of arteries, and seem to terminate in lymphatic glands, beyond which they reappear anew, formed of roots which collect in the manner of veins. Those of the limbs traverse long courses of several feet, without interruption of this kind; while those of the mesentery do not traverse a space of more than a few lines, without falling in with glands. Some pass by the side of a gland without stopping at it. It would even appear, according to Cruickshank, that some lymphatic vessels of the back arrive at the trunks without passing through glands; but Mascagnj, whose authority is so great on this subject, asserts that no lymphatic ves- sel arrives at the trunks without passing through at least one gland. 466. After a course of greater or less length, and more or less interrupted by ganglia, the lymphatic vessels of the lower half and upper and left fourth of the body terminate by a very elongated trunk, the thoracic duct, in the left subclavian vein. The others terminate by a very short trunk in the other subclavian vein. These terminations are themselves subject to several variations. Are there other terminations of the lymphatic vessels in the veins ? Part of this question we shall examine when we come to speak of the lymphatic ganglia; the other parts we shall consider here. Several anatomists and physiologists have admitted this opinion,* which may be founded on the circumstances that everywhere, and especially in the mesentery, the known radicles of the lymphatic vessels have a capacity much greater than that of the vessels which form their continuation; on the circumstance that in this part of the body also there often occur in the veins, as in the lymphatic vessels, substances introduced by absorption, and even those which have been directly injected into these latter vessels; and lastly, upon the circumstance that ligature of the thoracic duct, even 1 when there is only one, does not produce death sooner than in I from ten to hfteen days, and that there are then found in the 1 blood the substances that had been introduced into the intestine ; and absorbed by its inner membrane. But the communication in (question has not been seen, nor is it generally admitted. It would appear to be especially in the lymphatic glands that it takes place; but we shall revert to this subject in another place, (Art. II.) 467. The surfaces of the lymphatic vessels, like those of all the vessels, are the one cellular and adherent, the other smooth and I free. The latter presents a multitude of valves. These valves, which are of a semilunar or parabolic form, are j generally disposed in pairs, and are large enough to close the ves- • sel completely. They are in general placed at unequal intervals, 1 excepting in the vessels of the testicle, where they occur nearly at every line, which gives them more than any other the form of a • Sue Ludwip, loc Bit.