9 OF ANIMALS. that is to say, upon the external or internal skin, or upon some of its parts, organized in a particular manner, determine actions in these organs which are propagated by the nerves, to the central masses of the nervous system. There is not even a part of the body which, in certain cases, may not be the seat of some sensa- tion. When the animal has received a sensation, and this sensa- tion determines a volition in it, it is by the nerves that the voli- l tion is transmitted to the muscles, whose contractions produce the motions of the animal. The nervous action is not confined to transmitting the impres- : sions received by the senses and the volitions to the muscles; the central nervous masses are also the organs of instinct, and of the cerebral functions. The functions in question are not only in animals superadded to the organic or vegetative functions, but also modify the exercise of the latter in a singular degree. Thus, in nutrition, it is in ge- neral by muscular motions that the introduction of the food is de- termined ; muscular fibres, with which the intestine is supplied, cause it to move in them ; muscles, with which in many animals the vessels are furnished at their centre of union, propel the blood in them ; muscles also, by their motion, determine the application of the atmospheric fluid to the respiratory organ. Senses are placed at the entrance of the organs of nutrition, nerves are also distri- buted to the organs of nutrition, and although, in the ordinary state, these nerves transmit neither sensations nor volitions, and although the motions are immediately determined in them by im- pressions or irritations, yet, in the violent affections of the nervous centres, the motions are deranged, and in morbid cases their func- tions are accompanied by sensations. Generation, like nutrition, is modified in its acts by the animal functions. 14. There is in fact among all the organs and functions of ani- mals a concatenation which indeed exists in all organized and liv- ing beings, but which is more distinctly marked in animals, and especially in certain tribes of them. In organized beings which possess no other functions than nutrition and reproduction, the latter is the continuation and consequence of the former. In ani- mals which possess motion and feeling, nutrition requires to be ex- ecuted by means of a digestive process, for the animal could not at the same time possess the faculty of locomotion and be rooted in the soil. In such animals generation is sexual. In proportion as each order of functions becomes more complicated, the organs which are added to those whose existence is more general, keep the latter under subjection. Thus, in the order of the nutritive func- tions, the circulation, and in the latter, the action of the heart, keep, when they exist, all the other phenomena under their influence. In like manner, in the animal functions, the action of the nervous centres holds in control phenomena whose existence is more gene- ral. So also, the animal functions keep under their direction all the nutritive and reproductive functions; but these, in their turn,