50 INTRODUCTION". their destination into those which perform some purpose in the or- ganism, as the tears, the bile, the spermatic fluid, &c. and those which are rejected without being applied to any use, as the urine and sweat, and which are called excrementitious. These latter are acid, while the others are alkaline. OF THE ORGANS. 81. The organs arc the solid or containing parts of the body.* It is by them especially that form is determined, and motion im- pressed. The figure of the organs is greatly diversified. In general, however, their contours are rounded, their surfaces never very plain, nor their lines and angles very straight or entire. In most of the organs the length greatly exceeds the breadth and depth. Some are broad and flat. The name of membranes is given to those which have this form and are soft, whatever their texture may be. Others again present little difference in their three di- mensions. The external form of the organ is determined by the relative size of their three dimensions, and for this purpose compa- risons more or less trivial are employed, for it is in general rather difficult to determine the form by comparison with geometrical fi- gures. At their interior, some organs are hollow and form reservoirs or canals communicating with the exterior. Others form cavities closed on all sides; others ramified and closed canals; while others are full or massive. All of them, however, are areolar, and more or less permeable. Of the organs, some extend in a radiatory manner or by ramify- ing, from the centre to the circumference, of which kind are the vessels, the nerves, and even the bones. No organ is isolated, but all are interlaced and have communications with each other. Lastly, there exist strong resemblances between the organs, as be- tween the regions ; and certain organs, presenting a perfect simi- larity, constitute genera by their association. 82. The colours of the organs are white, red, and brown. Some are transparent, others opaque. Their consistence varies from a great degree of softness to an extreme hardness. They are exten- sile and retractile, compressible and elastic, but in very different degrees. Some have but a feeble degree of cohesion, while others are so tenacious that it requires a strong force to break them. These properties of colour and cohesion depend greatly upon the fluids which they contain in great proportion. Thus opaque parts, as the ligamentous tissue, become transparent by desiccation. This substance, which is highly tenacious and possessed of but little elasticity when moist, becomes highly elastic when dried. Elastic parts, as the tissue of the arteries, become brittle by desic- cation, &c. • Sec Chaussicr. Talk des solhlcs organiqucs.