OF ANIMALS. 7 cavity or intestine, into which the food is received. This cavity, like the exterior, is invested by a membrane or skin which limits and envelopes all the rest of the body. In many animals there are circulating vessels which carry, in determinate directions, the nu- tritious matter from the intestine into all the other parts of the body; respiratory organs, in which this matter is subjected to the action of the atmosphere, and secreting organs, by which a part of it is separated from the mass. They have genital organs, which consist in general of a cavity, from which the germs separate and make their exit. Lastly, in most animals, there are muscles for performing the apparent motions, senses for receiving the impres- sions of external objects, and a nervous system, consisting of cords or filaments, immersed and spread out by one extremity in the in- teguments and muscles, and of ganglions or enlargements, with which the other extremities of the cords are connected. 11. The solids, or the organs of animals, have for their princi- pal base the areolar or cellular tissue, a soft, extensile and con- tractile substance, permeable to the fluids. This substance be- coming condensed at the two surfaces of the body, forms external- ly the skin, and at the interior the mucous membranes, or internal skin. It is this same membrane, the skin, differently arranged, that constitutes the organs of respiration, secretion, and genera- tion. It also forms the organs of sense. Formed into branched canals, in the walls of which it assumes a considerable consistence, the cellular tissue constitutes the vessels. The same substance, variously modified, without however losing its distinctive charac- ters, forms several other kinds of organs in animals. The muscu- lar fibre constitutes a second kind of solid, differing essentially from the cellular tissue in this respect, that in the middle of the soft substance which forms the common mass, there occur linear series of microscopic globules. It contracts when irritated. The substance of the nerves is also formed of globules, which are dif- ferent however from those that compose the muscles. It trans- mits the impressions received to centres, and conducts the influence of the centres to the muscles. The animal fluids, or humours, are numerous and abundant. In many animals, there is a fluid in circulation in the vessels. This fluid is the blood, and constitutes the central mass of the nu- tritious humour. There are also fluids absorbed at the surfaces, or in the mass of the body itself; and, lastly, other fluids secreted or separated from the blood. The latter consists essentially of an abundant serous vehicle, in which are immersed microscopic par- ticles, similar to those of the solids. The composition of the blood is precisely the same as that of the solid parts ; and it requires but a change of condition, or some slight changes in the proportion of the elements, to convert the materials of fluids into solids. The last anatomical elements of the humours and organs of ani- mals appear, therefore, to be an amorphous substance, fluid in the blood, in which it constitutes the serum ov albumen, and concrete