OF THE VESSELS IN GENERAL. 171 it resists thoir action long, or experiences no effect from it. Dilute , Alkaline solutions do not alter its form, and but slightly dissolve it. Most of these anatomical, physical, or chemical characters are tldirectly the reverse of those of the ligamentary tissue, and differ from those of the muscular fibre, with which the elastic tissue has 'the da, 'alvest cupies the Ocular, as finn, and le. It« jateci, and Jeft to if-* ity in the is much t is much <1 of relo- ad on the t of rater. ipearaiM w>fM 'nkoriis | appeal- ssuedoes ire hardy ;e manBer latin tVom v W bbeen erroneously confounded. It, however, in some respects, re- sembles the muscular fibre, and appears intermediate between that tfibre and the cellular and fibrous tissues. Its vital properties are very obscure, especially in the ligaments, iand even in the large vessels. Its functions depend upon its elasticity, which is everywhere in ^opposition to the action of gravity or to muscular action. 362. The walls of the vessels are themselves provided with bblood-vessels and lymphatics, constituting the vasa vasorum of aauthors. The blood-vessels may be distinctly perceived in all ves- sels that are not less than half a line in diameter ; but they cannot tbe traced into the substance of the inner coat. The lymphatics ccan only be perceived in the large vessels. The vascular system iis also furnished with nerves* which are supplied by the spinal tmarrow and the great sympathetic nerve, and are distributed in tthe outer part of the substance of their walls. 363. The vessels whose trunks, branches, and principal twigs ; are lodged in the common cellular tissue, after dividing there, pe- inetrate into the substance of the organs, where they ramify to such ta degree as to become imperceptible, and terminate in a manner i which will presently be described; but the distribution of the ves- : sels in the organs varies in several respects, as we shall now show. 364. Their origin is more or less distant from their termination, ;and the course which they run consequently varies in length. In (general, the vessels come off from their trunks at no great distance ; from the organs for which they are destined. When the contrary i takes place, it depends upon some local peculiarity : thus the sper- : matic vessels have their origin at a great distance from the organs : in which they terminate, because the testicles and ovaries were ori- ; ginally situated near the kidneys. 365. The number, volume, and consequently the total sum of : the vessels, as well as the quantity of fluid which they carry, vary i in the different organs. Most of the organs receive several vessels of each species: such are the muscles, the bones, the brain, the stomach, the intestine, the uterus, &c. In almost all cases the vessels subdivide greatly at the surface of the organs before pene- trating into their interior, as is seen with respect to the brain, the bones, muscles, &c. Sometimes they penetrate by a single point into the organ, and divide in its substance, as in the spleen, the testicle, &c. The sum of the vessels, resulting from their number and vo- . • Wrisbcrg, Dc Nervis Arteritis Vcnasquc comUantilus; in si/llue. comm. GotlinR. 1800. . ■ °