OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. 181 from the deficiency of colour, it is impossible to discern any form or any particular direction in the passages or reservoirs into which the injection has made its escape. Bleuland formed the idea of combining with the red colouring matter another white matter, which in place of being pulverulent and suspended in the vehicle, was dissolved in it. Having pushed his injections into the arteries of a part of the intestine of which the vessels were previously filled with a coarser matter and of another colour, and having after- wards separated the peritoneal coat from the intestine, he observed in the external surface of that membrane, by the aid of the mi- croscope, besides the capillary blood-vessels which were all filled with red matter, another order of finer and white vessels, arising from the smallest arteries which had admitted the red injection, and entirely different from the vessels which are filled by ordinary injection. But what are these white. microscopic vascula, seen but once and on a portion of membrane detached from the neighbouring parts ? Are they exhalent arterioles opening at the' surface of the peritoneum ? Are they serous arterioles continuous with serous radicles of veins, and constituting a serous capillary system ? or, lastly, are they lymphatic arteries continuous with radicles of lymphatic vessels ? It is almost impossible to solve these ques- tions. Might they not rather be accidental passages ? Those who have since admitted the existence of serous vessels appear to have been ignorant of this, the most powerful fact in favour of their opinion. Those who have rejected them, have usually passed it over in silence. 387- The opinion of Mascagni, Prochaska, and others, respect- ing the non-existence of vessels finer than those which give pas- sage to a single coloured globule of the blood, may be established, in the first place, upon the circumstance, that these vessels are well seen with the aid of the microscope in living animals, and by no means smaller vessels, although the microscopic instruments give so large a volume to the globules of the blood that it would be easy to distinguish much smaller objects ; in the second place, upon the circumstance that the red injection, which is very pene- trating, does not clearly disclose any other vessels than those which are seen in the living subject. If in this case the parts be- come more red, especially after desiccation, this may depend upon the dilatation of the vessels and the disappearance of the inter- mediate substance. If inflammation reddens the parts still more, it is by the dilatation of the existing vessels, the formation of new vessels, and the infiltration of blood between the vessels. As to the whiteness or natural want of colouring of certain very vascular parts, as the conjunctiva, it depends upon the circumstance that the capillary vessels being in these parts extremely fine, the colour of the blood cannot be perceived in them. 3H8. It therefore remains very difficult or impossible to solve the question as to the existence of colourless or serous capillary vessels; and, when that term is employed in the present work, it