APPKNDIW one already quoted, there is detailed, with considerable minuteness, the case of a young man who suffered amputation of the thigh for a gangrene, which destroyed the leg as far as the knee-joint. Some months afterwards, the stump not healing, the surgeon extracted a 8< - questrum, or necrosed portion of the femur, five inches in length. The words in the original are—" II tira sans douleur, et sans qu'il sortit une scule goutte de sang, une portion de la totalite du femur, de la longueur d'environ cinq polices." To account for the gn at length of the sequestrum, the surgeon supposed that the gangrene had extended along the os femoris, and produced, in this case, the same effects as the caustic application in the preceding one ; but ample ex- perience has shown, that, whatever the cause may be by which the extremity of the bone, after amputation, has become denuded or ex- posed to the contact of surrounding diseased soft parts, the sequestrum will more or less assume the form already pointed out. It sometimes happens that, after gunshot fracture of an extremity, no effort is made by the constitution to secrete new bone. Several circumstances may give rise to this ; but, in the following case, the defi- cient secretion of bone to replace that which had been destroyed, seems to have been occasioned by the removal of a large portion of the old bone. As the presence of the diseased or necrosed bone is, generally speaking, the cause of the formation of new osseous matter; so this process will cease, or not take place, on the removal of the exciting cause. Case X.—J. T. was wounded at New-Orleans on the 8th January, 1815, by a grape shot, which entered in front of the right shoulder, and passed out nearly opposite on the back part, shattering, in its coiuse, the upper part of the humerus and scapula. In August 1815, an incision was made in the line of the deltoid muscle, and several small pieces of bone extracted. Previous to this, nearly twenty pieces of bone had been removed. His general health had originally suffered much; but, at this time, his constitution had in a great measure recruited. October 12, 1816.—It was now determined that the diseased head of the humerus should be removed by an opera- tion ; and, on the 18th of the same month, an incision having been made, and the deltoid raised, (few pieces of diseased bone being pre- sent,) the extremity was amputated at the shoulder joint. On exami- nation of the limb, it was found that no new ossific matter had been deposited any where. Mr. Hunter remarks, that bones fall into disease more slowly than soft parts ; and, when they become diseased, are proportionally slow, or in the act of restoration ; for all processes go on more slowly and with more difficulty in bones than in soft parts. In addition to this slow- ness of recovery in bones, it may be remarked that they occasionally have no tendency whatever to become well, even where the sequestrum or dead portion of bone has been removed. In such cases, the fistulous openings continue; they lead into a diseased cavity in the centre of the bone, which, in order to recover, would require being dressed from the bottom;—the application of the actual cautery might, in some instances, prove useful. Cask XL—J- B. was wounded by a musket ball, on the 11th De- cember 1813, before Bayonne, about four inches below the knee. Both