OF THE NAILS. I. OF THE NAILS.* 328. The nails (ungues) are horny scales or plates which are attached to the skin of the last phalanx of the fingers and toes on the upper side only. These parts are distinguished in the nails; the root, the body, and the free extremity. The root or adherent extremity is the fifth or sixth part of the length of the nail. It is the thinnest part. It is received into a groove of the skin, and is of a white colour. The body or middle part is intermediate in thickness as well as position. Its external free surface, which is smooth, and presents longitudinal furrows more or less distinct, is convex in both directions, and especially in the transverse. The opposite surface adheres intimately to the skin. The posterior part of the body of the nail, in a smaller ex- tent, and which diminishes from the first towards the fifth finger or toe, is white. This semilunar part has received the name of lunule. The other part appears reddish, on account of its transparency, which allows the colour of the skin to be seen through it. The free extremity of the nail is its thickest part. It is prolonged beyond the finger ; and tends, although in a slight degree, to curve down- wards so as to form a kind of hook. 329. The connexion of the nail with the dermis and epidermis takes place in the following manner. The dermis is thick, red and verypapillar beneath the body of the nail, excepting under the lunule, the papillae are disposed in linear series, like very small and close longitudinal furrows, the corresponding surface of the nail is soft, pulpy, and furnished with longitudinal grooves which receive the prominent lines of the dermis and adhere very intimately to them. However, their separation is produced in the dead body by the same causes which detach the epidermis and corpus mucosum from the dermis. The adherent extremity of the nail, which is very soft and thin, is received into the bottom of a fold of the dermis, destitute of epidermis. Under the nails of the last toes, which are small and irregularly developed, the papillae of the dermis are ir- regularly disposed, and not in linear series. The adherent surface of the nail presents the same irregular disposition for receiving the papillae. 330. The epidermis, on arriving at the root of the nail, is re- flected with the dermis until near the bottom of the groove. There, the dermis passes under the nail. The epidermis, on the contrary, is reflected over its root, and is prolonged upon its upper surface, which it thus covers with a very thin superficial laminae, which is confounded with it. At the free extremity of the nail, the epider- • Frankenau, de Unguibus, Jenae, 1796—l.udwig, De Ortu et Struc.tura Unguium. Lipsim, 1748.— li. S. Albums, t» Annot. Acad. Lib. ii. cap. xiv. de Unguc Humano, ejusque reticulo, &c. and cap. xv. de Natiira unguis— Bose, de Unguibus Humanis, Lips. 1773 Haase, de Nutrttione Unguium, Lips. 1774.