4 INTRODUCTION. from it and forms a being having the same aspect. This part, which is to possess the same form, and is to present the same phe- nomena as its parent, obtains the name of germ, so long as it forms part of its body. This second general phenomenon is but a con- sequence of the first. The germ, so long as it forms part of the body of its parent, is nourished and grows like one of its organs ; and its separation constitutes a kind of excretion. Organized bodies also for the most part reproduce certain of their parts when they are removed from them. They also repair to a certain extent the lesions which they may happen to expe- rience. The aggregate of individuals produced by the same parents, and of those which resemble them as much as they resemble each other, constitutes the species. External circumstances, such as the at- mosphere, the food, and others, according as they are more or less favourable, exert an influence upon organization and its phenome- na ; whence result a greater or less perfection in the development, and differences of similitude, which are in general pretty limited among the individuals of the same species. It is this that consti- tutes varieties. From this also result various individual altera- tions in organized and living bodies. These alterations of organi- zation and its phenomena are diseases. It is this series of phenomena common to all organized bodies: an origin from a similar being, a termination by death, the main- tenance of the individual by nutrition, that of the species by gene- ration ; in a word, an action of momentary formation, exercised in a body which has received it from a parent, and which transmits its principle to descendants, that is called life. It is by these two characters, organization and life, common to all, and peculiar to them alone, that organized and living bodies are distinguished. 7- The form and action of organized and living bodies, organi- zation and life, are in such strict connexion, that they may be con- sidered each as a necessary condition of the other, the one always supposing the other. Life is seen in organized bodies only, and it is in living bodies only that organization is seen. In fact, in order that life may take place, there must be solid parts to preserve the form, and fluid parts to keep up motion; in a word there must be organization. In like manner, before organization can support itself in the midst of causes tending to produce destruction, a con- tinual motion and renovation of its parts are necessary. Orga- nized bodies spring in a living state from bodies like themselves. In all, and during the whole course of their life, the vital pheno- mena are in an exact relation to the state of the organization; and when the latter is altered, whether as a consequence of life itself, or by accidental circumstances, life languishes and ceases, and the organization is destroyed by the chemical action of its proper ele- ments. All the efforts of philosophers have not yet enabled them to perceive matter organizing itself, or life establishing itself, whe-