VIS jailer, ft '.^Richer es place. OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. J 85 s- ap. e JDanaerai hare a :t is merely fc, that n of Tapour from all feral manifest them, i solid; Ftileinihe k arteries into the micous membrane, in scretory ducts of the ntas, and in the constitutes the solid are there seen * net-rab. and ter- es of escalation or vital phenomenon •ve^Jth'e^ alone, of which they would thus be the origin. Now, these canals I have never been seen, at least their open mouths have never been, so. The following are the opinions and facts known with reference to this point of minute anatomy. Aselli has said, in speaking of the lacteal or chyliferous vessels : ad intestina instar hirudinum qrificia horum vasorum Mailt spongiosis capitulis. Helvetius asserts that the intestinal villosities have spongy orifices. Lieber- kiihn speaks of a spongy or cellular ampulla. Hewson rejects this ampulla. Cruickshank describes and figures twenty or thirty openings, each larger than a globule of the blood, at the summit of each villosity. Sheldon makes the villosities terminate by a spongy tissue, and appears to confound follicles with them. Mas- cagni could not see orifices at the summit of the villosities. Feller, and Werner describe an ampulla, and trace vessels into it. Bleu- land admits openings at the summit of the villosities. Soemmering says that from six to ten absorbent orifices may be seen in each of them. Hedwig considers the ampullae as spongy, and represents at their summit one or more orifices, or none. Rudolphi has never seen orifices, and those who have admitted them, appear to him to have been misled by optical illusions. This is enough to make it be concluded that the orifices which have been described do not dis- tinctly exist. It must be added, however, that when a very pene- trating injection is made into the intestinal veins, the matter, in passing into the arteries, also transudes at the free surface of the mucous membrane. It is known, with reference to the skin, that when a lymphatic vessel of that membrane has been injected, if the mercury be pushed back towards the roots of the vessel, it at length, as Haas has observed, issues from the free surfaces. Mas- cagni has made this experiment, and any person may easily repeat it, upon the subperitoneal lymphatic vessels of the liver. Lastly, Carlisle asserts his having seen orifices of lymphatic vessels in a cellule of the cellular tissue. However doubtful and contradictory may be the facts, the fol- lowing is the opinion generally admitted, namely that, at the surface of the tegumentary and serous membranes, in the areola? of the cellular tissue, and, according to Mascagni, at the very sur- face of the vessels, there are orifices of absorbent radicles leading, according to the greater number of more modern anatomists, into the lymphatic vessels only, but according to the anatomists before Haller and some of those since his time, into the veins only; and according to others, into the capillary blood-vessels and lymphatics at once. Prochaska adds to this, among the passages of absorption,, the organic porosities of the vessels, which would thus be, at the same time, the passages of exhalation and passages of inhalation. Absorption has also been considered as a purely physical phenome- non, similar to capillary attraction or imbibition, the absorption which takes place in the dead body being adduced in support of this opinion. The truth is that the passages of inhalation are unknown. They 3