296 OF THE MUSCULAR SYSTEM JN GENERAL. alum, common salt and nitrate of potassa, increase the consistence of the muscle, slightly contract it, favour its separation into fibres, and alter its colour in various ways. Alcohol renders it pale ; alum turns it to brown and hardens it greatly ; nitrate of potash and common salt redden it a little, and, after first hardening it, af- terwards soften it, especially the former, while they at the same time retard its decomposition. According to the unpublished ob- servation of M. Bretonneau, and those of M. Labarraque, the so- lution of chlorure of calcium, at a suitable degree of concentration, preserves the consistence, flexibility and other natural qualities of the muscles and other soft parts. 666. Muscular flesh treated by cold water, gives out to it co- louring matter, differing a little from that of the blood, albumen, gelatine, and an extractive matter first observed by Thouvcnel. Submitted to the action of boiling water, flesh furnishes a great- er quantity of these substances, and moreover fat. The muscle thus treated, and exhausted by the prolonged action of water, there remain colourless fibres, insoluble in water, and easily separable, which by desiccation are rendered brittle, and which possess all the properties of fibrinc. Muscular flesh when calcined leaves about a twentieth part of its weight of saline matters. It follows from these facts, which have been observed by Thou- venel, Fourcroy, M. Thenard and others, that the muscles arc principally composed of fibrine, and also contain albumen, gelatine, extractive matter, osmazome of M. Thenard, phosphates of soda, ammonia and lime, and carbonate of lime. These observations have been particularly made on cowl's flesh ; but as the chemical properties of muscles present differences, even in animals nearly allied to each other, they arc not perhaps exactjy applicable to man. 667- In the state of life, the muscles possess an active power or property, commonly designated under the names of muscular irri- tability, muscular force, or myotility. 668. Muscular action* has been the subject of numerous inves- * See Fr. Glisson. Am!. Hcputis. Loud. 1654—Swammerdam, Biblia Nat. T. If. Haller. Be Partibus Corp. Hum. Irritabilibus ; in Comm. Gottiug. T. II. ct in Nov. Comm. Gottbig. T. IV.—Memoires sur la Nature Sensible rt Irritable des l ai ties du Corps Huma-in. Laus. 1756-59—Petrini S11W Insmsib. e Irritab. Dissert. Travsp. Ho. mac, 1754. Faun SulV Inseusitiva e Irrit. Qpnscol. Raccolti. Bonon. 1757-59.—A. G. Weber. Be Initiis ac Progr. Boctr. Irritab. &c. Halae, 1783—J. L. Gauticr {Pracs. Heil), de Initabil. Notionc, &c. Halcc, 1793—Croonian Lectures on Muscular Mo- tion,' in I'hilos. Trans. 1738, 1745, 1747, 1751, 1788, 1795, 1805, 1810, 1818, &c. J. Chr. A. Clarus. Ber Krampf. Lips. 1822—Lucae, Gtundlhiicu Eincr I'/n/siol. Ber Irrilabitat des Menschlrchcn Organismus in Meckel's Archiv. B. Ill—G. Blane, On Muscular Motion. Lond. 1788, and in Select Dissert, &c. Lond. 1S22.—Bar- zelotti, Esame di Alcune Modemc Thcoric alia Causa Prossima dclla Coritrazimic Mus- colarc. Sienna, 1796, and in ReiPs Areldv. B. VI—H. Mayo, Anat. and Physiol. Commentaries, No. 1. Lond. 1822. * Dr. W. Croone, who died in 1684, left the plan of two lectures to be instituted, tlic one at the Col- lege of Physicians, on the nerves and brain; the other, which was to be annual, at the Royal Society ot London, on the nature and laws of muscular motion.. The latter is still continued, and has given use to several excellent papers, both on the texture and action of the muscles. Several of these lecturo iire not consigned in the Philosophical Transactions. 5