OF THE CAPILLARY VESSELS. 179 ous and mucous follicles are furnished with very delicate vascular net-works. This is also the case with the microscopic alveoli of the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestine. The papillae of the mucous membrane, like those of the skin, are furnished with a multitude of capillary vessels, which is also the case with the villosities, at least at their adherent extremity. The mucous mem- brane, in general, is still more injectable than the skin, that of the lungs in particular is so in the highest degree. The membrane of the pituitary sinuses is much less injectable than the rest. The conjunctiva reddens moderately, and less by injection than by in- flammation. The mucous membrane of the excretory ducts, and the glands themselves, are furnished with numerous capillary ves- sels. The ligamentous tissue receives few blood vessels. The dura mater receives somewhat more, the periosteum is reddened a little by injection. The bones have but a small quantity of vessels. The capillary vessels of the muscles are abundant; the smallest, which are tortuous, accompany and surround the muscular fibres, frequently anastomosing. The nervous system is furnished with capillary vessels, which are more abundant in its envelopes and in the cineritious sub- stance than in the medullary substance. The pia mater and the neurilema in general, which differ in this respect from the enve- lopes of many of the viscera, contain the vessels until the greater part of them have acquired a capillary tenuity. The cineritious matter of the encephalon and the nervous ganglia possess a great number of capillary vessels of all degrees. The white matter, on the contrary, whether of the brain or nerves, possesses only very small capillary vessels, and in a less proportion. 384. There is therefore in the different organs a greater or less proportion of a substance not vascular, or which at least cannot be shown to be so by injections. M. Meyer * having introduced a colouring matter into the blood both by absorption and by injection, concluded from the different co- louring of the parts of the body that there are two kinds of organs, one set composed for the greater part of capillary vessels, viz. the cellular tissue, the serous membrane, the tegumentary membranes, and the fibrous or ligamentous tissue ; the other, more independent of blood-vessels, and formed of globules or of an organic pulp, viz. the glands, the bones, the muscles, and the medullary nervous substance. This proportion also changes with age. At the commencement, i at least in the ovipara, the blood shows itself and presents cur- rents before there are solid parts. Presently after, the walls of the vessels form. The younger the animal is, and the nearer to the I foetal state, the greater is the proportion of vessels over the unin- • Memoir on Venous Absorption, &c. lit Denisuhot Archiv. &c. nnd in Hid Journal I Complem. vol, xi.