lepth. The living parts in the vicinity of the dead portion, be- 5 - ■ Itly to tct,flss4. nlv imution and chroa, rncold tkninwan, ic productioD, and soo* or tibrous sut^, but iroduces no iuconvenieact OP THE BONES. 271 6O7. When a bone is denuded of the periosteum,* if the subject s young, if the bone is not altered itself, and if it has not remained ono- uncovered, the wounded soft parts, if restored to their natu- ral position, unite by first intention. In opposite circumstances, and in those in which the inflamed 1 periosteum separates from the bone by suppuration, in that in rrhich it becomes gangrenous, and when the periosteum suppurates ] nr mortifies, &c. the bone deprived of its nutritive apparatus, be- comes affected with necrosis at its surface, and to a greater or less come inflamed, soften, are at length detached from the dead part, nd suppurate. The dead portion having thus become free, falls ff. The subjacent granulations at length produce a cicatrix j »rhich covers the bone, adheres to it, and forms a new perios- ee %f$ info bone may V j 1 and accidental ossifict tay production, some jiy looting. The perioi «takes place, at its i» rt of cwater oriental Liable matter, which cok i Inmanycasait tosii is at ten sum. (308. After amputation, f matters go on in one or other of the wo ways above described. When the bone and its nutritive apparatus have not been hurt ilbove the amputated place, and especially when the union of the ivound is immediate, the end of the bone commonly unites by first ntention with the soft parts. On the contrary, when the wound remains open and suppurates, tVhen the periosteum has been torn or detached above the place of irmputation, or when the medullary membrane has been irritated itnd inflames, the end of the bone becomes affected with necrosis, imd there is detached a slice comprehending its whole thickness, und generally gaining obliquely upon its outer surface, because the weriosteum is commonly more injured, or is injured higher than Hie medullary membrane. In both cases, moreover, the end of the hone ultimately undev- i r^oes other changes. In general it becomes greatly diminished in ivolume and weight. The canal, which is at first filled by the rpongy rarefaction of the compact substance, is re-established, )i)ut is closed at the extremity by a bony production placed over it iSke a lid. 609. Deep necrosis^ of the long bones presents at the same ail 1 the exo« 7, vert circ^ rt,,0J ■ - it fori* ***** . portion I * » UP* boa* 0 • Tenon. Three Memoirs on Exfoliation of the Bones, in Mem. et Obs. sur VAnaU ?athol. et la Chir. &c. Paris, 1816. •f Van Home. Disscrtatio de Us, qua: in parlibut membri, prwsertim osseis, amputa* wane vulneratis, notnnda sunt. Lugd. Bat. 1803.—L. L. Brachet, Mem. de Phys. V?ath. sur ce que devicnt le fragment de I'os apres tine Amputation, in Bullet, dc la Soc. ttfed. d' Emul. de Paris, 1822. X Chopart and Robert. De Necrosi Ossium Theses Anatomico-Chir. Parisiis, 1IT76G—Troja. De Novortim Ossium, <£c. Paris, 1775. Blumenbach, in ltichter Irr/jir. Bihliolh. B. VI—David. Obscrv. sur une Maladxe (Jonnue sous le nom de ne- frirose.—Koeler. Experimenta circa rcgencrationcm ossium. Gotting. 1786 J. P. Weidmann. De Necrosi Ossium. Franc, ad Mcen. 1793, fol.—Russel. Practical ■vssay on a Certain disease of the Bones called Necrosis. Edinb. 1794.—A. H. M'lacdonald, Dc Necrosi ac callo, Edinb. 1799 Macartney in Crowther's Pract. »bs. on the Diseases of the Joints. Lond. 1808 Charmei). Dc la Regeneration ■cs Os. .Metz. 1821.