OF THE CELLULAR TISSUE. 79 The latter also are performed with so much the greater facility, the more the cellular tissue possesses its natural properties. It is the seat of a perspiratory secretion, which is very abundant from its extent. Does the fluid which the ultimate ramifications of the arteries exhale in it, undergo a kind of circulation; or at least a change of place in it ? Of this we are entirely ignorant. It is only in cases of morbid accumulation that the infiltrated fluid is seen to change place, in obedience to gravity, presence, &c. It i has been supposed, but without any solid foundation, that this fluid is in a state of continual agitation in it, and that the dia- , phragm by its alternate rising and falling is the principal cause of i this agitation; that it has currents which flow in various direc- tions ; that, for example, it is the secret way by which the drink I passes to get from the stomach to the bladder, a supposition belied 1 by all accurate observations ; and that it is the path by which me- t tastases travel, &c. However this may be, the fluid is again ta- I ken up by the vessels, so that the cellular tissue is intermediate be- i tween a perspiration and a resorption. The tonic contraction of I the cellular tissue is the agent which impels its serosity into the i vessels. The cellular tissue is in fact the essential organ of absorption. It i is it that forms the corpus mucosum of the skin, the spongy sub- stance of the villosities of the mucous membranes, parts which ab- i sorb, and from the absorbed substances pass into the vessels. Be- I fore being introduced into the vessels, the substances absorbed by i the cellular tissue, which may be called external or superficial, in i opposition to all the rest, without doubt undergo changes or elabo- i rations. In the same manner as the foreign matters, before enter- i ing into the vessels, must pass through the cellular tissue, the or- gan of absorption, so also those which issue from the vessels pass t through the cellular tissue, the organ of secretion, before they are deposited upon the surfaces at which they are poured out. The cellular tissue which envelopes each organ in particular, has been considered as forming for it an isolating atmosphere, which circumscribes its actions, whether healthy-or morbid. Ob- i servation often contradicts this assertion, and when the fact is true, i it is the particular texture of the organ, and in the variety of the l agents that we must seek its explanation, and not in this pretended ; atmosphere. The cellular tissue, which penetrates into the substance of the organs, connects all their parts. As to the organic or parenchymal cellular tissue, it forms the I base or essential element of each organ, and there presents remark- : able varieties. In the most rational hypothesis respecting the seat of nutrition, it has been admitted that the nutritive matter is depo- • sited externally of the vessels, in the cellular substance, which (forms the base of the organs, to be assimilated to them, and that it i is thus the essential organ of nutrition. Be this as it may, and whatever hypothetical uses may be attributed to the cellular