33$ OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. CHAPTER X. OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 7«35. The Nervous System, Syslema nerveitui, comprehends cords (nerves), bulgings (ganglia), and a central mass (the brain in general,) formed of a white and greyish substance, which in the state of life, keeps up the irritability, are the conductors and re- ceptacle of the sensations, the point of departure and the conduc- tors of the volitions ; in a word the organs of innervation. The nervous centre is moreover the organ, in other words the material instrument of intellect. 736. The Asclepiadae were not acquainted with either the nerves or the ganglia. One may easily be convinced, on reading the works of Hippocrates and Aristotle, that they have confounded under the name Nst^w, ligaments, tendons, nerves, and even the vessels. Praxagoras appears to have been the first who had any correct idea of difference among the white organs ; but having placed the origin of the nerves at the termination of the arteries, he gave rise to an opinion respecting the hollow structure of the nerves, which has been continued up to the present times. Herophilus and Erasistratus knew the connexion of the nerves with the brain, but they continued to give the same name to the tendons and ligaments. Galen unravelled the confusion which still prevailed in his time with regard to this subject, by giving names to the ligaments and tendons. By discovering that the nerves are medullary in their interior, and membranous at the ex- terior, he clearly determined their connexion with the spinal mar- row and brain. He remarked, in opposition to an opinion that had existed previously to him, that the spinal marrow is subordi- nate to the brain, which is therefore the nervous centre. He at- tempted to establish a distinction between the nerves of feeling and those of motion, and described and named the nervous ganglia. He had also made considerable progress in the know- ledge of the nerves in particular. The anatomists of the Italian school having found neurology much in the state to which Galen had brought it, greatly improved its condition. G. Bartholin re- produced the opinion of Praxagoras and some others of the an- cients, that the spinal marrow is the centre of the nervous system, and that the brain is only a continuation of it. From this period, the anatomy of the nervous system, whether in animals, or in the human species, has been continually enriched by new facts. 737. The most simple animals have no distinct nervous system. (28.) The first in which it begins to make its appearance are the ra- diated animals, and in particular the asterise or sea-stars, in which it consists of soft threads and small enlargements disposed around the mouth, both white and destitute of cineritious matter.