OF TIIR SKIN IN GENERAL. 110 ruption which is named the raphe, and winch indicates that there were originally two separate halves. This raphe is very distinct in the places where the union of the two halves is latest effected, and where it is most common to find abnormal division ; for ex- ample, in the upper lip, the perinamm, and below the umbilicus. The skin seems perforated, but is not so in reality, at the orifices of the digestive canal and those of the respiratory, urinary, and genital passages, where it is reflected and continued, with a change of character, into the internal skin. This is also the case at the external auditory canal, into which it sends a cutaneous prolonga- tion, and at the eyes and excretory ducts of the mamma?, into which it sends prolongations of a mucous nature. 292. The skin presents two surfaces. The free surface, which is external and in contact with the atmosphere, presents various objects to be considered. There are seen in it wrinkles or folds of greater or less depth, some of which depend upon the cutaneous muscles, situated on the head, the neck, and around the anus, the contraction of which the skin is unable to follow. It is the same with the wrinkles of the scrotum, which are produced by the con- traction of the subjacent tissue. Other wrinkles correspond to the articulations, and depend upon their motions. Of this kind are the wrinkles of the hands, feet, &c. Others again depend upon emaciation and muscular atrophy, when these phenomena manifest themselves rapidly and at an age when the skin has lost its con- tractility. The surface of the skin, moreover, presents small wrinkles peculiar to the epidermis, in the palms and soles. These are prominent lines, separated by other depressed lines, running in various and winding directions, and which are formed by rows of papillae. On the back of the hand and on the forehead they arc of a polygonal form ; on the cheeks and thorax they are only dots and rudiments of stars, 81c. There are also seen at the surface of the skin small rounded apertures, very generally distributed, and which especially abound on the face. They are the orifices of se- baceous follicles. Other apertures of still smaller size and micros- copic also occur, or apparent porosities of the epidermis, but which are infundibuliform depressions terminating in a cul-de-sac. In general, this surface is pretty smooth. It is in a small degree moistened and covered by the transpired humour and the seba- ceous matter. 293. The deep or adherent surface of the skin is in general con- nected with the subjacent parts by a loose cellular tissue, which allows the skin to slide upon the parts which it covers, and vice versa- In some places, subcutaneous bursa? mucosa? interrupt the continuity of the cellular tissue and greatly augment the mobility of the skin and of the parts which are beneath it. In other places, on the contrary, the cellular tissue is dense and firm, and is little different in appearance from the skin. Such is its disposition on the cranium, the back of the neck, and the abdomen. In other places, again, it is by means of fibrous or ligamentous tissue that