OF THE SKIN IN GENERAL. Malpighi, and some of those who have succeeded hiin, place its seat in these two membranes, especially in the latter. The co- louring matter exists in the men of all races, excepting albinos ; but it is only in negroes that it can be seen very distinct from the rest of the skin. Malpighi only announced that the colour of the skin has its principal seat in the rete mucosum. Littre tried, but in vain, to obtain the colouring matter separate, by submitting the skin of the negro to maceration, in order to swell, the corpus mucosum, and thus separate the epidermis from the dermis. How- ever, although the corpus mucosum is very soft, and capable of becoming fluid, considerable portions of it in a coloured state may be separated from the skin of the scrotum of the negro, under the form of a continuous membrane, independent of, and separated from, the epidermis. But more commonly, and I have several times repeated the experiment, maceration separates from the der- mis, which remains possessed of very little colour, the epidermis and corpus mucosum adhering together and coloured ; and it is only with difficulty that the corpus mucosum can afterwards be separated under the form of a membrane. If the maceration be prolonged in a small quantity of water, and the experiment be made with the skin of the scrotum, a part which is very deeply coloured, the corpus mucosum, in becoming resolved into a kind of mucosity, tinges the water and at length allows to fall to the bottom of the vessel, an impalpable powder of a brown colour. Gautier has assigned as the special seat of the colouring matter, the- middle layer of the corpus mucosum, which he describes under the name of gemmules, as an undulated layer which covers with each of its contours singly, the double furrowed lines of the dermis,, on the palms and soles. It would rather seem that the pigment results from coloured globules disseminated in the corpus muco- sum. Not only is the corpus mucosum more coloured, but it is also thicker in the negro race, than in the other races, and in the latter its thickness is in the ratio of its colouring. Accordingly, it is so thin in white people that its existence in them has been doubted. It is still thinner and so fluid in albinos, that the action of the sun very readily blisters their skin, while in negroes epispastic> do not produce that effect without great difficulty. The colouring matter of the skin is very similar to that of the blood. It appears to be secreted from that humour, and to pass from the vessels of the surface of the dermis into the corpus mu- cosum, where it exists in a kind of imbibition; various morbid phenomena countenance the belief that it is there continually re- newed by continual deposition and resorption. Beddoes and Four- croy have found that the skin of the negro, on being immersed in water impregnated with vapour of chlorine, becomes white, and in a very few days resumes its dark colour in all its original intensity. The chemical observations of Davy, Coli, and ofhers, have de- monstrated what Blumenbach had long ago advanced, that the pigment of the skin is principally formed of carbon.