%m OF THE LIGAMENTOUS TISSUE IN GENERAL. Some parts of the ligamentous system are highly vascular; of which kind are the periosteum especially, and the cranial meninx. Lymphatic vessels are perceived in the larger organs of this kind. It is doubtful whether they have nerves. 502. The ligamentous tissue naturally contains a large propor-1 tion of water. Desiccation renders it hard, transparent, elastic, and brittle, gives it a reddish or yellowish colour, and renders its fibres very indistinct. It resists maceration long. This process, however, softens it, renders it flocculent at its surface, separates its fibres, rendering the cellular tissue apparent in its substance, and at length converts the fibres themselves into mucous substance. Fire violently crisps it, and leaves a large quantity of charcoal. Decoction first curls it much, renders it yellow, hard and clastic, and at length reduces it to gelatine. Mineral acids in the cold and warm states dissolve it; nitric acid commences with curling it. Cold acetic acid swells it and reduces it to a gelatinous mass, and when hot melts it entirely. The alkalies swell and soften it. In this state its fibres easily separate, and present the colours of the rainbow. 503. The elasticity of recent ligamentous tissue is very tri- fling, but is more decided when it is dried. It has hardly any extensibility when the effort is sudden, whence the strangulations produced by the ligamentous parts, and the lacerations of this tissue by violent distentions. On the contrary, when the causes of distention act slowly and gradually, the ligamentous tissue yields and becomes thinner, its fibres separate, and even disunited if the slow distention is carried to a great length. The increase of volume which the fibrous tissue undergoes through excess of nutrition, must not be confounded with this phenomenon. The retractility of the fibrous tissue is exercised in the same proportion as its extensibility. It takes place quickly if the distention has been sudden without going so far as to produce laceration, and slowly if it has been gradual and slow. The tenacity or power of resistance of this tissue to rupture is enormous ; it continues una- bated after death. It has no irritability or vital contractility ; nor can the motions of contraction alleged by Baglivi to have been observed in it, or the oscillatory motions supposed by La Case, be admitted. The sensibility of this tissue is extremely obscure or doubtful. Those who admit it, agree that it is only developed by certain mechanical agents, which have a specific influence upon its different parts. Thus the dura mater is said to be sensible to the impression of some stimulants which have no effects upon other li- gamentous parts ; the ligaments, to the distention or violent pull- ing which precedes their rupture,, while the same thing docs not take place in the tendons. There still remain many daubts on this subject. It has, however, been erroneously inferred, from experi- ments favourable to the opinion of the insensibility of the liga- mentous parts, that they experience no impression from irritating