OK THE CELLULAR TISSUE. S2 Air may insinuate itself into the cellular tissue, which consti- tutes emphysema. When the patient does not die in consequence of this accident, the diffused air escapes by the incisions which are made, or by the wounds which may happen to exist, or it combines with the fluids contained in the cellular tissue, and disappears by absorption. Leucophlegmasia, or anasarca consists of an accumu- lation of serous fluids in the cellular tissue. In ecchymosis, the cellular tissue contains blood diffused in its areolae. All the organic fluids may be accidentally infiltrated into this tissue, in which they produce more or less violent inflammations, when they are of an excremcntitious nature. Solid foreign bodies introduced into the cellular tissue, do not in general remain long in the same place, but, like pus, are com- monly impelled toward the surface, and if they are heavy, also to a certain degree obey the laws of gravity. It is evident, that it is not by passing through pretended cellules, that these bodies thus travel through the cellular tissue. The latter presents around them three distinct phenomena; it secretes pus at their surface, unites and resumes its softness and permeability behind them, and ulcerates before them. Here then we find united three of the kinds of inflammation admitted by John Hunter; the adhesive, the suppurative and the ulcerative inflammations. These pheno- mena together have received the name of eliminatory inflammation. It may happen that the foreign bodies abide in the cellular tissue', whether on account of their specific gravity being inconsiderable, or from the density of the surrounding tissue. A membrane then forms around them. The cellular tissue, in some circumstances, contains living fo- reign bodies or worms. The Cysticercus cellulosce, so named on account of its seat in the cellular tissue, and the Filaria medi- nensis, whose existence cannot be called in doubt, are met with in it; and in animals, larvae of the oestrus. The cellular tissue may undergo various transformations. The serous, fibrous, osseous and cartilaginous transformations, which are produced in the cellular tissue, will be described along with the natural tissues to which they belong. The cysts, of which the cellular tissue is the seat, will also be examined, when we come to speak of the serous and tegumentary membranes, to which they have a great resemblance. When an organ accidentally disappears, it is said to be trans- formed into cellular tissue. This is not perhaps perfectly correct; the cellular tissue in this case only takes the place of the wasted organ, which previously kept it at a distance. The different degenerations may be regarded as belonging parti- cularly to the cellular tissue. It, in fact, appears to form their base, for these degenerations are universally similar. However, as they are common to all the organs, I shall deliver their history af- ter that of all the other tissues. The cellular tissue, wherever it is free in the intestines of the organs, is affected by these degene-