APPENDIX. has suffered muob 5 and lie is generally at last cut oil', either by some unlucky operation, by being thrown into an unhealthy hospital, or his constitution sinks from weakness and distress. Necrosis not unfrequently attacks the hones in cases of gunshot frac- tures, though amputation has heen performed by a dextrous operator. Cask V.—Captain B- —, residing in the south of England, re- vested my advice regarding a discharge of purulent matter from the thigh, which had heen amputated about two years before. He was originally struck by a hall near the knee-joint, in the action of Sala- manca; and amputation was performed soon after, a few inches above the site of the wound. The operator was perhaps the most expert at dial time to be found in the British service; the wound healed well, but could not be brought to a perfect cure ; it remained open, dischar- ging purulent matter, and giving the patient great uneasiness. A se- cond amputation was performed, and afterwards for similar reasons, a third ; yet in 1816 the stump continued open. I am inclined td think that the bone had originally been killed by the shock of the ball, and died probably throughout two-thirds ©fits shaft. This might not be apparent during these successive operations; for the external lamina of bone, at the place where the saw is applied, are sel- dom do;ul, or even diseased. 1 shall now briefly enumerate the more common causes of necrosis in gunshot fractures, and in cases connected with military practice. These are, 1st, The amputation of the limb below the point at which the shock of the ball has affected the bone. Casio VI.—W. S. of the hussars was Avounded on the 18th June 1815, by a cannon shot, which destroyed the knee-joint. He suffered amputation on the 20th ; the bone was sawn through about four indies above the knee; the stump remained open. In the beginning of 1817, a long exfoliation or sequestrum came away from the face of the stump, which still remained open, with a discharge of purulent matter. Such eases are very common. 2d, Death of the bone from the shock of the ball, with or without fracture, as in the case of A. C. already described, and in the follow- ing. Case VII.—I. H. of an infantry regiment, was wounded at Orthez by a musket ball, which entered the right thigh, a little above its middle. The ball lodged in the limb, but was cut out, about .hree months afterwards, at the distance of a few inches above the seat of the original wound. Several pieces of bones were extracted about July 1816 ; but he died exhausted in January 1817. On examination, the os fenmris was found necrosed quite to the trochanters of the bone, from within an inch of the condyles; the periosteum was vascular, and somewhat thickened ; some deposition of new bone had taken place. Numerous cloacce led into the interior of the bone, where a very long and complete sequestrum existed. Necrosis w ill more readily follow, should the ball be allowed to re- main imbedded in the bone. Amputations very high in the limb are