s ma « tesue, foimingcel- fcmoi. Donley, s, Moieschi, Paniaa, as on the erectile tissue horse, mail, k : vessels exists ia manj :h it is much moie evi- losum of the penis and ■ nrxnpfiff, ffte nipple, lt • i limensions m tire or- reseat the same dere- fokVkITe<i111 i;;>t nr. r The if ft* v.- OF THE EUECTILE TISSUE. 189 rrious degrees, in their whole extent. The volume of the nerves and the quantity of the blood-vessels are everywhere proportionate t to the degree of sensibility. The skin of the pulp of the fingers, \ which is very vascular and nervous, experiences a degree of swell- ling and of manifest redness during touch, proportionate to its per- tfection. 400. The erectile tissue of the organs of copulation differs from tthat of the papillae only in having its dimensions much larger. That of the corpus cavernosum of the penis presents the following (disposition. It is enveloped by a sheath of elastic fibrous tissue, which sends prolongations into its interior. The two dorsal arteries iof the penis are accompanied by an azygous vein forming a plexus, ;and by nerves of great size. The arteries send into the interior mumerous ramuscules accompanied by nerves, and the veins receive •ous radicles through the sheath. The interior is composed cof arterial ramifications coming from the dorsal arteries and central sarteries, and of very numerous large veins, intermingled in all di- rections and anastomosing a multitude of times with each other. 'These branches of veins present dilatations and wide communica- ttions. When one of the arteries of the penis is injected, the in- fection, if very penetrating, after filling the arterial ramifications :and the internal venous plexus, which constitutes the corpus caver- mosum, and thus producing erection, returns by the dorsal veins. 'The corpus cavernosum is still more easily filled by injecting by tthe vein. Thus the pretended cellules of the corpus caverno- ssum are only very large roots of veins forming a complicated jplexus, and anastomosing like capillary vessels. The erectile tissue of the urethra and glans have the same dis- jposition; which is also the case with that of the clitoris and rnymphae. Erection is produced in the organs of copulation, as in the pa- jpillae, by the repletion of the erectile vessels. This repletion may ( depend upon the afflux of arterial blood, which is accompanied by i increased sensibility, and the retention of the venous blood, or by tthe union of both causes. 401. There is still a part whose texture and phenomena greatly rresemble those of the erectile organs. This part is the spleen, *which, for this reason, appears to be a diverticulum of the blood, llf the spleen be exposed in a living animal, and the course of the tblood in the splenic vein be arrested by pressure, this organ swells aand greatly increases in size. It quickly returns upon itself when tthe circulation is re-established. The accessions of intermittent tfever are accompanied, in the cold period, by a manifest swelling of this organ, which is more or less completely dissipated at the rend of the accession. It would appear that the same thing takes [place during digestion. 402. The erectile tissue is sometimes accidentally developed in s organism. This production has been described under the th