133 OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE, constitute a small lamina1; those of the jejunum, which are long :iand narrow, better deserve the name of villosities, and towards the t end of the ileum they become laminar again, as well as in the co- Uon, where they scarcely project. The villosities are semi-transpa- r<rent, their surface is smooth, and there are not perceived, either .iat their surface the apertures which have been admitted in them !• without their number having ever been agreed upon, or in their .^substance the cellular ampulla, or the vascular texture which have l>been described as belonging to it. There are only perceived in their i.'gelatiniform substance microscopic globules disposed in linear se- rries, and at their base twigs of blood vessels and lymphatics of ex^ icessive minuteness. 270. The texture and anatomical composition of the mucous nmembrane presents numerous varieties or differences in the diffe- rent places where they are observed. The foliated disposition can- mot be demonstrated in all the parts of the membrane, and, on the ther hand, distinctly exists in certain points. In the greater part of its extent, the membrane consists entirely oof a spongy tissue, more or less soft, and whose thickness varies eatly. It is to be remarked, on this subject, that in the fetus, nd in the lower animals of the series, the external skin itself pre- sents this character of simplicity. The thickness presents a suc- cessive diminution from the gums, the palate, the nasal fossae, tthe stomach, the small intestines, the large intestine, the gall blad- dder and the urinary bladder, to the sinuses and the divisions of the ^excretory ducts, in which its thinness becomes extreme. It is in tthis essential part of the membrane and at its surface, that the last ddivisions of the vessels ramify, and it is from its surface that the -villosities rise. 271. Few traces occur in it of a distinct layer of corpus mucosum, nless we consider as such the layer of coagulable fluid which se- pparates the papillae of the tongue from the epidermis, or the gela- ttiniform surface of the villosities, or admit as proofs of its existence ttfche ephelides or variously coloured spots which sometimes occur in he teguments of the glans and vulva, as well as the imperfect ac- cidental horny productions which are still more frequently observ- ed in the same parts under the form of vegetations, and which are amed poireaux. The existence of the epidermis is much more evident, although imot in the whole extent of the mucous membrane. 272. The epklermis or epithelium is very apparent at the ori- ttficcs of the mucous cavities. It is less so in the deep parts of these ocavitics, and at length ceases to be apparent. It may be question- ed whether it exists there : Haller and others have thought that ■tit does, and that the membraniform accidental secretions are a proof of its existence. All pathologists now know that such excre- tions are commonly results of the plastic inflammation or inflamma- tory crusts, and sometimes of eschara?. The same conclusion has been drawn from the fact of preternatural anuses with reversion of the intestine, in which the epidermis becomes very apparent.' But