Or THE NERVES IN GENERAL. " Sec BluinviUe, Pnnc'qwsd'Anut. Cuwpurcc, T. i. Paris lt*'-'2. 3-1-8 then the internal muscles, and the blood vessels, of which the ar- teries receive more than the veins, or lymphatic vessels, in which latter their existence is not very certain. The existence of nerves is doubtful in other parts, or in those which have the cellular fibre for their basis, if we except the vessels, as the cellular tissue, the serous and synovial membranes, the cartilages, the bones, &c. These parts, in fact, do not appear to receive any nerves. Lastly, the horny and epidermic parts are assuredly destitute of them. It is possible, however, that there may be nerves in the above tissues, although their softness and extreme tenuity may prevent their be- ing visible; and the sensibility which these tissues exhibit in dis- eases gives some countenance to the idea. It is true that the hy- pothesis according to which the nerves act by means of an impon- derable fluid, susceptible of extending its influence beyond their apparent termination, may, to a certain degree, account for this phenomenon. According to that hypothesis, the nervous action is transmitted beyond the nerves and across the organic substance, as nutrition takes place beyond the termination of the arteries, by a kind of imbibition. It is worthy of remark, that, in some circumstances in which there exists paralysis of feeling, and not of motion, the inflammations which are developed are not accompanied with pains ; which would lead to the belief that the same cords arc the seat of the general feeling and of the feeling of pain peculiar to inflammation, and that the nerves of the blood-vessels are not the only ones which cause the latter to be experienced. 77^- The parts in which the extremities of the nerves terminate in the most evident manner, are therefore the tegumentary mem- branes and the organs of sense, which form part of them, the mus- cles and the arteries. The organs of sense* are those by which external bodies are per- ceived. They are more or less complicated, and possess a struc- ture calculated so as to enable them to receive a determinate im- pression. They are connected with the nervous centre by nerves of Great size. These organs are those of tact, or touch, taste, smell, hearing, and sight. The muscles are connected with the nervous centre by numerous nerves, which are greatly branched (662.) The arteries receive a very great number of nerves; but they do not all exhibit the same "circumstances. 1st, Some only accompany and surround them, as ivy twines about trees, without penetrating into their tis- sue, unless perhaps after having accompanied them to a greater or less distance. Of this kind are the nerves which accompany the vertebral, internal carotid, and facial arteries. 2d, Others, adher- ing closely to the outer membrane of the artery, penetrate along with it into the organs, becoming soft and pulpy. After ramify- ing greatly, they disappear, and seem to dissolve in the external