OF THE GLANDS. neys are so only in the foetus, and the liver is lobcd only at its exterior. In the former, the lobules appear formed of very small, but si- milar, and whitish particles. In the liver and kidneys there occur two substances of different colours, disposed in layers in the kid- neys, and intermixed like the grains of granite in the liver. 485. The glands are enveloped by a membrane, cellular in the greater number and fibrous in the others, and surrounded in some by a serous membrane, and in others by a great quantity of cellu- lar and adipose tissue. The internal surface of this membrane is continuous with the more or less cellular tissue which exists abun- dantly in the glands. These organs have numerous blood-vessels and lymphatics, but few nerves. The latter, however, are more numerous than in the mucous membrane in general, but less so than in the skin. Most of them receive only arterial blood. The liver alone in man and the mammifera and the liver and kidneys in the ovipara, re- ceive moreover venous blood, which accounts for the nature of the Maids, so different from the blood and entirely excretory, which these glands furnish. The number and volume, or the total capa- city of the arteries, are very different in the glands, but nowhere greater than in the kidneys. The length, the course, and the mode of distribution of the vessels, also vary greatly. The dif- ference of capacity between the arteries and veins is very slight in the glands ; in fact, a great part of the blood is in them transform- ed into secreted fluid, and carried off by the excretory ducts. 486. These ducts commence by very minute, invisible, and pro- bably closed radicles, which unite together in the manner of veins, to form several trunks, as in the lachrymal, sublingual and mam- mary glands, or form a single trunk, as in all the others. These ducts, which are multiple or single for each gland, have a course which is generally straight, being tortuous in the testicles only, and open upon the tegumentary membranes. That of the ovary is the only one which is interrupted. Those of the mammae, be- fore terminating, present olivary bulgings. Those of the kidney present at first a funnel-shaped cavity or pelvis, and then end in a single bladder common to both. The duct of the liver and that of each testicle have also a reservoir, which, however, is situated laterally and requires a retrograde course of the secreted fluid be- fore it can arrive in it. The ducts of the other glands present no interruptions, bulgings, or reservoirs. The composition of the excretory ducts always essentially re- sults from a mucous membrane, the thickness of which diminishes in proportion as it forms finer divisions in the gland. This mem- brane is covered externally by cellular tissue and elastic tissue, in some ducts by erectile tissue, as in the urethra, the nipple, and perhaps some others. In some parts of the excretory passages, the mucous membrane is strengthened or covered by mucous fibres.