1 of t theCN ■ Greedy c OF THE NF.RVOUS SYSTEM. BS,S08tMlv% : Visions, and at is internal and ceu-' is cords. The ei- f S3 of the body, tie- substance?, to-, nto white or medul- • jled medullary, «•. he oh, pflwfe art?. Itisinge-) alwtmous, viscous ncoburandhomc- red dotsupon iter * at the u»- i project ai , ibrous <fl; J* has been looked for, and it has always been found the same in the same parts. Tins fibrous structure is visible in some parts of the nervous sys- tem without any preparation, nearly in all places where there is more difficulty in breaking this substance in one direction than in another, and precisely in the direction according to which the chemical preparations above mentioned show direction of the fibres to lie. The white nervous substance when dried, acquires a yellowish colour and a horny appearance. When cut in thin slices, it be- comes semi-transparent. When immersed in water, it resumes its colour and opacity. 74<7. The grey or cineritious substance,* substant/m cineria, also called cortical because it in many places envelopes the preced- ing, presents like it, and even in a still greater degree, variations of tint: it varies from lead-grey to blackish brown. This substance is always softer than the white substance. The surface of its in- cision is uniform, and only presents red dots and streaks, which are still more numerous than in the medullary substance. This substance, in fact, is, in some points at least, much more vascular than the other. That which forms the crust of the brain and ce- rebellum contains so many vessels, that when it has been well in- jected and afterwards macerated, it appears to the microscope en- tirely composed of vessels. Albinus,-]* however affirms, and with truth, that in this case there evidently remains an uninjectable or extravascular part. The grey substance, on being submitted to the same chemical preparations as the white substance, does not present when torn precisely the same kind of fibrous appearance. When submitted to the action of water, the grey nervous substance becomes softer, swells a little, and loses a great part of its colour. Acids, alcohol, and especially corrosive sublimate, also whiten and harden it; and when afterwards dried, it becomes pulverulent. The colour, which varies a little in the different races, appears to be a product of the colouring matter of the blood. 748. The two nervous substances are variously intermingled with each other in the different parts of the nervous system. In the lobes or hemispheres of the brain and cerebellum, the grey sub- stance forms an envelope or crust to the white. In the spinal mar- row, the grey substance forms two internal cords, enveloped by the white substance. In the medulla oblongata and in the pedun- cles of the cerebrum and cerebellum, there occur masses or nuclei of grey substance, enveloped by white substance, alternating la- minae or layers of the two substances, and cords or fibres of both, which cross or pass through each other. In the ganglia, there is found a peculiar grey substance, traversed by white fibres, and lastly, in the nerves, there occur white fibres only. " Iiiidwig, de Cincren cerebri stibsfantia, \ Acad, atrni/i; Lib. i. cap. 12.