OF THE SKIN IN GENERAL. 1 il the skin adheres to the subjacent parts, as around the wrist and ankle-joint, on the palm of the hand, the sole of the foot, and es- pecially the heel. The adhesion is produced in some places by means of a reddish, semimuscular cellular tissue, if we may call it so, of which kind is the dartos, on the scrotum and lips of the vulva. Lastly, in some places the skin is attached to muscles, as the cutaneous muscles of the cranium, the face, the neck and the hand. The panniculus carnosus of the mammifcrous animals, which is much more developed than that of man, excepting on the face, is of like nature with the cutaneous muscles of the latter. The anatomists of the middle ages disputed much respecting its existence in man. It is evident, however, that it does exist, al- though it is of small extent. In many places, the subcutaneous cellular tissue is mixed with adipose tissue, and these two tissues penetrate together into the substance of the skin. The subcuta- neous cellular tissue is traversed by large veins, by numerous ar- teries and lymphatic vessels, and by nerves. 294. The cutaneous or sebaceous follicles* bear the greatest re- semblance to the mucous follicles. They exist in the whole extent of the skin, at least they are ad- mitted so to exist, excepting in the palms and soles. Their ex- istence is admitted there because the sebaceous humour covers the whole extent of the skin ; because by an attentive dissection, and the assistance of the lens, they are perceived in places where they are of an excessive tenuity ; and lastly, because certain morbid al- terations render them evident in places where they are not other- wise perceived. They abound especially wherever there are hairs, in the neighbourhood of orifices, and in the groin and axilla. They are situated in the substance of the skin or beneath it. They are best seen in cutting the skin obliquely. Their orifice constitutes pretty distinct porosities at the surface. They are of the size of a millet seed and even less. Their size varies: those of the nose are pretty large, those of the cheeks much smaller, they have the form of a small bottle. They are in general simple and separate from each other. Those of the nose, however, are very close; some are even aggregated or compound. They consist of a small ampulla formed by the skin, rendered thin and reflected upon it- self, and there furnished with a great number of vascular ramus- cules. They contain an oleo-albuminous matter, which differs a little in the different regions of the body. 295. The texture and anatomical composition of the skin are points of minute anatomy, which have much exercised the patience of observers, and respecting which they differ greatly. From the earliest period it was known that the skin is composed of two lay- ers, one deep and thick, the other thin and superficial. Malpio-hi having observed in the tongue of the ox, that the papilta of the .'• Cb. Th. Reuss.prcnide Autemictl), De Glandulis sebacih dissert. &c. Tubin ga?, 1807.