JNTUODL'CTION. 3ti rally a pollex and three toes, having various directions, and of which the number of articulations increases from the pollex, which has two, to the outer toe which has five. The neck is elongated, formed of numerous vertebra?, and possessed of great mobility. The coccyx is very short and furnished with feathers, like the wings. The brain, which presents the same characters as that of the other oviparous vertebrate animals, is remarkable for its great size in proportion to the body, but this does not depend upon the hemispheres, which are small. The skin of the bird is in general covered with feathers composed of a hollow shaft and barb. It is scaly on the upper part of the toss and callous on their under part; the sense of touch must consequently be very feeble in them. The eye is furnished with three moveable palpebral, the cornea is very convex, the crystalline lens flat, and the vitreous body small. The crystalline lens is furnished with a membrane which appears in- tended for moving it. The fore part of the eye is provided with a bony circle. Birds see objects distinctly far and near. The ear, which is a little more perfect than in the other ovipara, has no small bones in the vestibule ; the cochlea is a little arched; there is a small bone between the fenestra ovalis and tympanum, which is destitute of a concha excepting in the nocturnal species. The organ of smell, which is concealed in the base of the beak, has commonly three cartilaginous horns and no sinus. The tongue is much less muscular than in the mammifera, and is supported by an osseous prolongation of the hyoid bone. The trachea has its rings entire. At its bifurcation there is a glottis or inferior larynx in which the voice is formed. The upper larynx is very simple. The lungs, which are destitute of lobes, and attached to the ribs, allow the air to pass into several cavities of the abdomen, thorax, axillae, and even of the bones, which lightens the body and in- creases the extent of the respiration. The upper jaw is principally formed by the intermaxillary bones, and is prolonged posteriorly into two arches, an inner, formed by the palatal bones, and an outer formed by the maxillar and jugal bones, and which both rest upon the osquadratum or tympanal bone, which is mobile. It is joined to the skull by elastic plates. Both maxillae are covered with horny matter which is substituted for teeth, and sometimes has the form of these bodies. The stomach is composed of three parts, more or less distinct; the crop, which is sometimes wanting; the membranous stomach, furnished with numerous secreting folli- cles ; and the gizzard, which is provided with powerful muscles, and lined with a coriaceous membrane. In the rapacious birds, however, the gizzard is very thin and differs little from the other stomach. The spleen is small, the liver has two ducts, and the pancreas is of great size. The rectum has two appendages, some- times only one, and in some genera none. They appear to be the remains of the allantoid membrane. The rectum, ureters, and spermatic ducts, or the oviduct, terminate in a bag called the cloaca, which opens into the anus. The testicles are placed in-