SUBCUTANEOUS SYNOVIAL BURSAS. IOC branes which form envelopes to similar or morbid accidental pro- ductions and to foreign bodies. These envelopes are not like cysts or the serous membranes of inhalant and exhalant surfaces. They often surround cysts. Their consistence varies, and they are also always parts of new formation. There exist between the cysts or serous vesicles connected with the cellular tissue by their outer surface, and the hydatic worms, insensible transitions between which it were very difficult to draw a very decided line of distinction. Thus the small serous vesicles which so frequently occur in the choroid plexus, those which are sometimes seen at the fringed extremity of the uterine tube, and those which I have repeatedly seen in vegetations of the nasal and uterine mucous membranes, evidently appear to belong to the cysts. The hydatic or botryoid mole seems to me to belong to them also, and yet a very able naturalist refers them to the genus acephalo- cystus.* The three species of simple acephalocysti themselves, whose animal nature is still doubtful, also in a certain degree re- semble cysts. I have once extracted from beneath the skin of the neck, and several times from beneath the skin of the mamma, ace- phalocysts of these species, single, not encysted, and not adhe- rent, indeed, but as it were glued to the cellular tissue. Most commonly, it is true, one or other of the three species of simple acephalocysts, occur associated in great numbers and free in a dis- tinct cyst. A modern physician-j- has attributed to the formation, develop- ment, and transformations of the hydatids or hydate form, cysts of which we have just been speaking, the origin of tubercles, of all the kinds of tumours, and even of foreign bodies suspended or free in the serous and synovial cavities. Having now given the general history of the serous system, we shall next describe successively the different species which it com- prehends. SECTION SECOND. ARTICLE FIRST. OF THE SUBCUTANEOUS SYNOVIAL BURSJE. 200. The Subcutaneous Synovial, or Mucilaginous Bursa?, Burses rnucosce subcutanece, had not been described by anatomists, although some pathologists, and especially Gooch, Camper, and recently M. Asselin, had spoken of their dropsy, in doing which Camper took occasion to say a word respecting their healthy state, • See H. Cloquet. Faunc des Mcdecins, T. I. Paris, 1822. f See J. Baron. An Inquiry, &e. on Tuberculous Diseases, London, 1*17.