OF THE MEDULLARY TISSUE. 94 oily juice in the compact substance. This fat is formed of the same principles as the common fat, only in different proportions, since it is more fluid. It is also of a more yellow colour. 175. The medullary membrane is possessed of sensibility. Du- verney has very well described the experiment which is to be made for proving this property, which Bichat has perhaps somewhat ex- aggerated, but whose existence is unquestionable. In fact, if in amputations performed on the human species, the impression caus- ed by the dividing of the bone is in most cases scarcely perceived, this depends solely upon the more intense pain resulting from the cutting of the skin, and which has preceded that arising from the membrane. But if in a living animal an interval be left between the cutting of the integuments and that of the marrow sufficient to allow the impression produced by the former to be dissipated, a stilet introduced into the medullary canal instantly produces a pain which the animal testifies in various ways. It will easily be Bjei that this sensibility resides in the membrane, and is foreign to the marrow itself. The nerves accompanying the principal medullary artery into the bone, if the latter be amputated above the entrance of that vessel, the remaining marrow no longer communicates with the nervous centre. It is to this circumstance that we must attri- bute the difference of sensibility observed by Bichat, between the centre and extremities of the medullary cavity, and also to the cir- cumstance that the nervous filaments go on dividing towards the two extremities of that cavity. The medullary tissue is possessed of an obscure contractility similar to that of the cellular tissue. The arteries which ramify in this membrane, secrete and deposit the fat matter in it. 178. According to Bichat, the medullary membrane exists at a very early period, being formed before the canal; only it is filled with a cartilaginous substance, which afterwards gives place to the marrow, in proportion as ossification goes on. The most attentive observation does not discover in the cartilages, arteries or veins, or medullary membrane. At a later period, the cavity of the long bones is only a narrow canal which the artery fills. The latter re- tire to one side and is attached to the walls, when the canal be- gins to widen. A viscous or gelatinous substance is contained in the latter. Marrow is at length produced, but in small quantity. As age advances, the canal becomes wider, and the marrow more abundant. There is no appreciable difference, with reference to this tissue, between the sexes. This fluid, moreover, presents in- dividual variations with respect to its quantity. When the degree of fatness of the individual is ordinary, the fat forms the greater part of the substance contained in the medullary canal. In eight parts of this substance I have found seven of fat; the rest is form- ed by the vessels, water and albumen. In thin subjects, on the contrary, the fat constitutes only a fourth, or a still smaller pro- portion of the fluid contained in the long bones. The rest has ap- peared to me to be water, or at least an evaporablc substance, and