OF THE EXTERNAL MUSCLKS. these, the fibres form two planes, which are inserted upon the two faces of a middle aponeurosis ; of which kind is the temporal muscle. Other muscles are more compound still, as the deltoid, masseter, &c. which result from the union of several penniform bundles. 721. The texture of the external muscles always results from more or less distinct bundles, which generally terminate at the two ends upon tendinous tissue. These bundles are composed of fasciculi or visible fibres, which themselves result from microscopic elementary fibres. The cellular tissue and the adipose tissue form envelopes and partitions for them, which are so much the more distinct, the more distinct and voluminous the bundles themselves are. The nerves of these muscles, which are very abundant, es- pecially in those of the organs of sense, almost all come from the spinal marrow, few coming from the great sympathetic nerve, and those which are derived from this nerve, are never distributed to the muscles by themselves, but are accompanied by others. 722. Besides these parts which arc essential to the muscles, these organs have appendages or parts attached to them. These are the fuscice (519) or enveloping aponeuroses, which surround the muscles, keep them in their places, and furnish them with partitions by which they are separated, as well as points of attach- ment. Of this kind also are the sheaths and rings which inclose the tendons, and prevent their shifting, and the synovial mem- branes which facilitate their slidings. 723. The muscles are divided with reference to the motions which they produce, into congenerous and antagonist muscles, according as they contribute to produce the same motion, or pro- duce different motions. The motions which take place in the hu- man body, and which the muscles produce, are motions of flexion and extension, of lateral inclination, rotation in two opposite di- rections, which, in the fore-arm are distinguished into pronation and supination, motions of elevation and depression, of adduction, abduction, and deduction, of dilatation and constriction, of pro- traction and retraction, &c From these motions, the muscles are named flexors, extensors, pronators, supinators, levators, Sic. The antagonist muscles present some differences. In almost every part of the body, the muscles which effect a motion are stronger than those which produce the opposite motion. Those of the two sides of the body which produce lateral inclination, and the rotation around the axis of the body, only present the slight difference which is generally observed between the two sides of the b,ody. The others present much greater differences. The flexors and extensors are the only muscles that have engaged the attention of anatomists in this respect. Borelli thought that the flexors were shorter than the extensors, and that, by contracting with equal force, they necessarily pulled the bones, along in flexion. M. Richerand also thinks, that the difference is to the advantage of the flexors. M. Meckel has adopted this opinion. These twor