OF Tllli SKIN IN GENERAL. 115 % hh K« ^organs j 11 of the) I of semi.. veils to < »"kid i cal arts, various tu den. fflttW of iic. *By eadbihty death, it lion, i its outer the sap- e corpus uhrt or lalfffad a, and is 'thesfc & and latcdty >tber de- motect negro, as well as in the black spots which sometimes occur in white people, and even on a bit of white skin which exists in the Hunte- rian collection. This layer, which is extremely thin at the sum- mits of the papilla.1, and less so in their intervals, has the appear- . ance of a net-work, but is not perforated. Those who have admitted only two membranes of the skin, have considered it as the deep part of the epidermis. This mucous body, respect- ing the nature of which it is difficult to form a very correct idea, appears to consist of a plastic fluid or a half-organized cellular tissue. The blood or injections do not disclose vessels in it. Fluids however penetrate it, but they seem to be imbibed by it, or to be contained in particular interstices. No nerves have been seen in i it either, and it is without due foundation that Dr. Gall has com- I pared it to the cineritious substance of the brain. This membrane i forms a humid varnish which invests the papillar and vascular sur- I face of the dermis. The substances which enter into the economy, i or issue from it by the skin, pass through it. It is the seat of the i colour, and that of the horny, scaly, and other similar productions, i that naturally exist in the skin of animals and in that of man, as i well as of those which are accidentally developed there. This mem- brane, which is so thin, and whose existence has even been doubt- eed, appears, in some animals, and even in man, at least in some parts of the body, and in certain cases, to be formed of several -superimposed layers. 302. An anonymous author first pointed out this circumstance. iCruickshank observed it in a negro who had died of small-pox, and IBayham in the injected skin of a white, in another case of dis- cease. Gautier demonstrated it in the skin of a negro by various iHiethods, and M. Dutrochet in the skin of animals. These obser- wations are sufficiently numerous to render it necessary to examine 'before rejecting them. 1st, There is upon the papillar surface of tthe dermis a very thin, colourless, and transparent layer, which is ('especially distinguished beneath the coloured scales and horns of animals, in the negro, and even in the white, but under the nails only ; 2dly, A coloured layer, very distinct in negroes, in whites -spotted with coloured marks, and much less so in the places where ithe skin is white :—it is frequently united with the next layer; XJdly, A superficial colourless layer, more or less soft or encrusted with horny or calcareous matter : it is distinct in many animals, land is so in a small degree in the negro, but in the white can only I'be seen at the nails, the hairs, and in accidental horny produc- tions. This layer is immediately covered by the epidermis. 303. The pigment of the skin* has its principal seat in the cor- ppus mucosum, and especially in its middle layer, but the outer sur- face of the dermis, and especially the inner surface of the epidermis, ialso possess it in a small degree. The anatomists who preceded * B.S. Albinus, De serle el causa coluris Aetldopum et enter, homin. &c. Lugd. Bat. 1737; ct Amiol. Lib. i. cap. ii. Meckel, Loc. cil. 8. T. Soemmering, uchcr idle korpcrl'whe verschiedcnhcM tics vrgers vom turop'der: