244 OF.THE CAKTILAGliS IN GENERAL. some points. This change sometimes commences at the adult age, but especially in old age. Inflammation gives rise to it prema- turely. i 550. The organic action of nutrition appears to be very slow in the cartilages. The use of madder does not colour them, that sub-, stance appearing to have affinity only with the earthy substance of the bones. They become yellow in jaundice. The cartilaginous' bones of the vertebral column of the lamprey appear and disap- pear each year, from which they must be inferred to possess a great organic activity, which is also the case with the rapid growth of the larynx towards the period of puberty. 551. Incidental cartilaginous productions are very common.. They possess all the characters of the natural cartilages ; their co-. lour, apparent homogeneousness, &c. They present all the vari-. eties of texture of the cartilages, and even more, and may also be. distinguished into two kinds. The imperfect accidental cartilages are sometimes in the state of jelly, or have the consistence of the boiled white of an egg. They have a milky, or yellowish, or pearl gray colour. They ossify in part or in whole, rather than become perfect cartilages. They are met with under the form of incrusta- tion in the arteries, and especially in the aorta and cerebral ar- teries, under the forin of cysts around morbid productions and ace- phalocysts, forming fistulous passages in the lungs, under the form' of irregular masses in goitres and other compound tumours, and un- der that of isolated bodies in the joints. The perfect accidental cartilages are those which present the cha- racters of the natural tissue, and especially its firmness. They oc- cur, forming small cysts filled with phosphate of lime. They are often met with in the state of isolated bodies, of moderate size, and of a roundish form, in the synovial membranes, or at their exterior, whence they penetrate into the cavity by pushing the membrane bf.'fore them, and enveloping themselves in it as in the finger of a glove, the base of which, after being attenuated, is cut off across. They ossify imperfectly in whole or in part, commencing at the. centre. Cartilaginous bodies of this kind are also met with in the. splanchnic cavities, and especially in the tunica vaginalis, into which they penetrate like the preceding. Perfect cartilages also occur under the form of incrustation or plates, in the subserous cellular tissue of the spleen, the lungs, and the pleura costalis, in the "substance of the valves of the heart, especially in the left side, in the subserous tissue of the diaphrag- matic pleura and peritonaeum, and in that of the liver ; in hernia?,- and rarely in the anterior wall of the abdomen. All these incrus- tations have a great tendency to ossify. Cartilages also occur in shapeless masses in the compound tumours, under the accidental cellular tissue of the serous membranes. I Accidental cartilages are sometimes formed by transformation of other tissues. An old woman who was some years ago at the Hospital of the Faculty of Medicine at Paris, and who had on her