INTRODUCTIONS 32 external violence. This function of the bones may be regarded as one of the most important which they perform. 53. Besides the kinds of humours and organs which are com- mon to all, or at least to the generality of animals, there occur others in the vertebrata which do not exist elsewhere. These arc the red blood, the chyliferous and lymphatic vessels, the bones, ligaments and tendons, and the serous and synovial membranes. In all the invertebrate animals, the nutritious fluid is of one colour only, and white or bluish, excepting in the annelides, in which it is red. In the vertebrate animals, on the contrary, the arteries, the veins, and the heart contain red blood, a fluid com- posed of colourless serum, in which float minute bodies formed of a central globule and a coloured envelope. It is more compound than in the invertebrate animals. A nearly colourless or whitish fluid is contained in the chyliferous vessels which commence at the intestine, and in the lymphatic vessels which take their rise in all parts of the body. Both sets of vessels have a great resemblance to the veins, and terminate in them. The bones are hard parts peculiar to the vertebrate animals. They are situated internally, and are of an organic nature, con- sisting of a mass of condensed cellular substance, impregnated with a large proportion of phosphate of lime. They serve as an envelope to the nervous centres, receive and transmit muscular motion, support all the parts, and hence determine the form of the body. In the invertebrate animals, the hard parts are in general transuded at the surface, and consist of shells, crusts, or scales of carbonate of lime, or horny matter. This latter kind occurs in the vertebrate animals also, in which it affects extremely diversified forms, as those of scales, feathers, hairs, and horns, parts all resembling each other in their composition and mode of formation. There occurs also in the vertebrate animals a kind of organs which is nearly peculiar to themselves, consisting of the tendons by which the muscles are attached to the bones, and the ligaments which surround the articulations of the latter. These organs consist of very condensed cellular substance, the whole of whose function resides in their tenacity. The serous and synovial membranes are also parts formed by the cellular substance condensed and disposed in the form of bags with contiguous walls wherever the continuity is interrupted be- tween the parts. In the splanchnic cavities they separate the viscera from the walls, and in the moveable articulations they contain a fluid which moistens the contiguous extremities of the bones. 54. But what distinguishes the vertebrate animals from the others, is not merely the action of the organs which are peculiar to them, namely, a more concentrated nervous system, whose central parts arc larger, whence result an appearance of intellect which is distinguished from instinct, a certain capability of receiving education, &c. ; nor is it alone the influence which these organs 4