114- OF THE SYNOVIAL CAPSULES OF THE JOINTS. applies to all the transparent membranes. No nerves have been observed in the synovial capsules. 216. The fluid secreted by these membranes, or the synovia, so named by Paracelsus on account of its resemblance to the white of an egg, is the result of a perspiratory secretion, although many other ideas have been entertained respecting the mechanism of its formation. This fluid is not, as was long supposed, the product of a mixture of serous fluid with the fat; the medullary matter of the bones does not transude to form it, as we have seen ; nor docs the synovia contain oil in its natural state. The alleged glands of Havers cannot, from what we have said, perform the office which that author ascribed to them, and the fringes by which they arc surmounted arc not, as he imagined, excretory ducts. Nothing of a glandular nature, in fact, is observed in the synovial bodies, there being no granulations or excretory ducts in them; yet the idea of this glandular structure has recently been revived.* The fat itself which they contain is not essential to their structure, and besides, as there is no oil in the synovia, it is not the transudation of the former of these fluids, when it exists, that gives rise to the other. Roscnmuller asserts that there are secretory follicles in these adiposed bodies. 1 have not seen these follicles, nor am I aware that any person has confirmed their existence. The secre- tion of the synovia is therefore neither glandular nor follicular; nor is it a mere result of transudation, but a true perspiratory for- mation. The whole extent of the synovial membranes is its seat, but especially the portion of these membranes which surmounts the fringes, on account of the greater number of vessels which it contains. The synovia is in part taken up again by absorption, and the circumstance of its quantity being always nearly the same supposes an equilibrium between the latter and the secreting power. This fluid, which was known to the Greeks, who gave it the name of pv^w ruv agOgav, and was long designated by the names of axunqia and tmguen, is ropy, viscous, salt to the taste, and of a specific gravity of 105. Its chemical composition has been ex- amined, as well in animals as in man, but more particularly in the ox, by Margueron, Fourcroy, J. Davy, Hildebrandt, Orfila, and several others. There have been found in it water, albumen, mucus or incoagulable matter, considered by some as mucilagi- nous gelatine, filandrous matter, which some consider as fibrine, others as albumen in a particular state, soda, muriate of soda, phosphate of lime and an animal matter which is said to be uric acid. The uses of the synovia are to diminish friction, and thus to facilitate the motion of the parts upon each other. 217- The synovial capsules of the joints present some patholo- gical alterations.*!* They unite again when they have been divid- * See Heyligcrs; Disseriatio Physiql. Altai, deFabricA artienf. 1803. f Sec Keimsuus, de Tiimoir. Ligament, Sec. Loyd. 1557. tVynpersse, de Ancyloti, Leyd. 1783 Ejusd. Ac AnCyl Pdfliol. Leyd. 1783.—Brodie on Diseases of the Joints.