284 OF THE AUTICULATIONS, by synovia. There is a fibrous capsule in it, formed by the re- mains of the old capsule, adhering to the luxated bone, by the surrounding cellular tissue, and by a new production. The old cavity contracts and becomes superficial, and the cartilage dimi- nishes, or even entirely disappears. If it is in the haunch, the cotyloid cavity diminishes, and from being hemispherical becomes triangular ; a fact to be added to those which show that the form of organs depends, partly at least, upon their reciprocal action. It would appear that these changes were in part known so early as the time of Hippocrates. 635. M. Chaussier * has produced, in dogs, the formation of accidental articulations intermediate between the two kinds above described. Having by an incision made the head of the femur to come out of the cotyloid cavity, and having sawn it below the tro- chanter, he brought the flesh together, and left the animals to the care of nature. On examining the parts at periods more or less remote, he found that the muscles had drawn the extremity of the femur near a part of the ischium ; that the truncated bony extre- mity was rounded, and invested with a cartilaginiform substance; that the point of the ischium against which it rested had also as- sumed a cartilaginous appearance, and sometimes presented an ar- ticular fossette of greater or less depth ; lastly, that the cellular tissue formed around this new articulation a kind of membranous c&psule, in which was contained a serous fluid in greater or less quantity, 636. The diarthrodial articulations may be altered in their so- lidity and in their mobility ; they may be too loose or too tight, and they may also be luxated or anchylosed. 637- Luxation is the more or less complete cessation of the na- tural connexion between the contiguous surfaces of bones. When it takes place, the ligaments are violently stretched, drawn out, or even ruptured. The other articular and surrounding parts are more or less affected by these lesions. Motion is then very diffi- cult. The most mobile articulations are the most susceptible of it. Thus the arthrodiae and enarthroses are those which present the greatest number of examples of it, and the close diathroses those which present the fewest. Of the articulations of the same species, those which are the least close, those whose articular sur- faces have the smallest extent, and those which take place between the longest bones, are those which are most frequently luxated. Thus, the shoulder-joint furnishes of itself more examples of luxa- tions than all the others together. 638. Anchylosis,-f- or the uniting of the diarthrodial articulations, consists, when it is complete, of an intimate union, a real conti- nuity between bones which were previously in contact. The " Bulletin des Sciences par la Sue. Philom. Paris, an. vHr. f J. Th. Van dii Wjnipersse. Dc Ancyhsi, &c. Lugd. Bat. 1783. Idem. De Ancyloseos Pathol, el Carat* Lugd. Bat. 1783.—J. Clo<iuet, in Dktionnairc dc Mi' dceine, vol. ii.