OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 130 all the cavities that open externally. Its most important part forms a covering to the whole alimentary canal, from the mouth to the anus. The rest of this membrane constitutes prolongations or appendages prolonged into a cul-de-sac, and more or less deeply extended and ramified in the mass of the body, and ending with open mouth at the external or the internal skin. It thus forms an immense internal integument of greater extent than the skin. 262. The mucous membrane, like the skin, presents an adhe- rent surface and a free surface. The adherent or external surface «, is in general invested with a layer of fibrous cellular tissue of a peculiar nature, to which Ruysch and many other anatomists have given the name of nervous membrane, which Albinus and Haller have demonstrated to be cellular tissue, and which Bichat has named submucous cellular tissue. This tissue, which is close, fibrous, and white, never contains fat, and rarely infiltrated sero- sity. It is traversed by a great number of minute divisions of vessels and nerves. Several anatomists have likened it to the dermis of the skin. Be this as it may, it is to it that the hollow or- gans in a great measure owe their solidity. The mucous mem- brane is further doubled in the whole extent of its principal canal, and in several of its divisions, by a muscular plane, forming a kind of internal cutaneous muscle. In some places, it is an elastic tissue that backs the mucous membranes, as is seen in the trachea and in the excretory ducts. Besides these, a true ligamentous tissue, such as the periosteum of the nasal fossae, sinuses, palate, and alveola?, lies upon the membrane and constitutes it a fibro-mucous membrane 263. The free surface of the mucous membrane presents val- vulae, folds, and rugae, formed by the whole thickness of the membrane doubled back upon itself. The valvulae are form- ed by the folded mucous membrane, by the submucous tis- sue, and by muscular fibres contained in the fold. This is what takes place at the pylorus, the entrance of the small intestine into the large intestine, the velum of the palate, the orifice of the larynx, Sec The folds contain in their substance nothing but sub- mucous tissue, but they are constant like the valvulae and are never obliterated. Such are the numerous replications of the small in- testine, which are named valvulae conniventes. The rugae, on the contrary, are accidental or momentary replications, in which the mucous membrane is in reserve for future dilatations of the or- gans, or which depend upon the circumstance, that the organ hav- ing been dilated and having returned upon itself, the mucous mem- brane is in excess over the muscular membrane. Of this kind are the longitudinal rugae of the oesophagus and trachea, the irregular rugae of the stomach when it is contracted, the regular rugae of the vagina and the neck of the uterus, &c. 264. The free surface of the mucous membrane also presents de- pressions of various kinds, and papillar and villous prominences. If But these various objects, although very generally distributed in the membrane, do not yet exist, or, at least, are not by any means