OF Till? ME MB KAN I FORM CARTILAGES. iengrenurc It I SEN 3 than in the others ' "H lie effect of agej ,ail(i go on continually ave costal cartil^es in j Wage, tecaion tok'koraeareo-' lie contrary, become: ! afelfli 1, do not produce gra- e neighbouring putt s have re- seen |> |iare#Et»"; vices of rin*1 ties the* Those of the larynx, on the contrary, are only attached to "the bones by ligaments, and are connected together by move- ,iable articulations. These cartilages have still a certain thickness. When their pc- rrichondrium is raised, their surface is found to be smooth and com- jpact. Long continued maceration divides these cartilages into ; fibres or filaments more or less short. Boiling and mineral acids (produce the same effects. These cartilages are flexible and elastic. By their solidity they {preserve the form and cavity of the organs which they contr- ibute to form. Those of the larynx present the remarkable pe- culiarity of a very rapid growth at the period1 of puberty. These I same cartilages sometimes ossify at adult age, at least in part, i Chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the larynx, and i'its ulceration, greatly hasten this ossification, which, in fact, aL • ways takes place in phthisis laryngea, and is of frequent occurrence ; in phthisis pulmonalis. When the thyroid and cricoid cartilages are divided, they unite* Iby bony laminae of the perichondrium, which are thicker at the t exterior than at the interior of the larynx. ARTICLE III. OF THE MEMBRANIFORM CARTILAGES. 564. The Membraniform Cartilages are those which Bichat has placed in his fibro-cartilaginous system. They are very thin, and possessed of great flexibility. . They are the palpebral cartilages or tarsi, the cartilage of the i ear, those of the nostrils, the cartilage of the epiglottis, the median: (cartilage of the tongue, and the cartilages of the trachea and 1 bronchi. ■ These very thin cartilages are furnished with a perichondrium, which is very thick and very strong compared with themselves,' and sends into their substance fibrous and cellular prolongations, some of which even pass entirely through them. Their surface al- : so is very uneven and porous. Maceration continued for two or three months softens them, and reduces them to the state of dis- tinct fibrils at first, and finally into cellular or mucous sub- : stance. They are very flexible, perfectly elastic, and much less brittle and more tenacious than the other cartilages. Like the preceding,- they concur in forming organs or canals, of which they preserve the form and caliber. They are rarely ossified, and only at a very advanced period of life. The wings of the trachea alone present a more or less extended ossification in the adult. In cases of phthi- sis, however, the cartilaginous wings of the bronchi have been I found ossified. In gouty persons also, and after inflammation of