OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM* the fourth ventricle, is very simple in the osseous fishes, in many of the cartilaginous fishes, and in the greater number of reptiles. In the others, and especially in birds, it is more compound. In them there are already perceived lamina; and the commencement of lateral hemispheres; but in no oviparous animal are there yet seen the prolongations destined to form the annular protuberance, or that protuberance itself. In all the mammifera we find the lamellated structure of the cerebellum, lateral hemispheres, a ciliary body in the peduncles, and a protuberance. These parts are the more developed the higher we rise in the class of mammifera to- wards man. The prolongations of the cerebellum at the tuber- cula quadrigemina also exist in all the mammifera. The ventricle of the cerebellum is common to the four classes of vertebrate ani-, mals. In some fishes there are observed encephalic lobes posterior to the cerebellum. Such are those which correspond to the origin of the nerves of the electric apparatus of the torpedo. The tubercula quadrigemina, which are formed by the develop- ment of the lateral or olivary cords of the spinal marrow, appear to exist in all the vertebrate animals, although there has been much diversity of opinion with respect to their determination. In all they are the principal point of origin of the optic nerves. In all they form, by their union in the middle line, the upper wall of a cavity situated between the ventricle of the cerebellum and the third ventricle. They are so much the larger in pro- portion to the encephalon in general, the more simple it is. They are bigeminous only in the ovipara, and are quadrigeminous only in the mammifera. The anterior pair is larger than the posterior in the ruminantia, solipeda and glires. The reverse takes place in the carnivora. The two pairs are about equal in the quadru- jnana and in man. The brain properly so called, which results from the expan- sion of the anterior or pyramidal cords of the spinal marrow, which cross each other in all the mammifera and in the birds of prey only, and not in the other animals, and are bulged out by the optic thalami and the coiyora striata, presents many differences in its volume and complication, which are in general proportionate to the volume of these thalami and these corpora. The cartilaginous fishes have no brain. (Desmoulins.) In the os- seous fishes it is formed by the optic thalamus alone, which is solid. (Desmoulins.) In reptiles and birds, it is formed by the same body, which is hollow, and bears some resemblance to the hemispheres of the mammifera; but these hemispheres do not pover the tubercula quadrigemina, and have as yet neither lobes, nor circumvolutions, nor corpus callosum. The brain of the mam- mifera, which is formed by a recurved medullary membrane, whose fibres come from the corpora pyramidalia, optic thalami and cor- pora striata, gradually approaches to that of man, presenting Yari-