7 <>8<i OF THE SKELETON. THIRD SECTION. OF THE SKELETON. 641. The skeleton is the aggregate of all the bones connected with each other by the articulations. It is called natural, when the bones are kept together by their proper ligaments, and artifi- cial, when the bones are united by substances foreign to the or- ganization. It constitutes a symmetrical whole,* which has the form and dimensions of the entire body, which dimensions it in a great mea- sure determines itself. It is divided into the trunk and limbs. The trunk, the central and principal part, and which is formed in the median line by the ver- tebral column, presents two great cavities. The one, which is su- perior and posterior, and is formed by the skull and vertebral canal, lodges the nervous centre; the other, which is anterior and inferior, and is formed by the thorax, lodges the central organs of the nutritive functions. Other cavities (those of the face), receive the organs of sense, &c, The appendages or limbs which are furnished with numerous articulations, possessed 0f great mobility, are especially subservient to motion. 642. The uses of the skeleton are to form the solid and flexible axis of the body, furnish protecting envelopes to the nervous and vascular centres, and to the organs of sense, afford points of at- tachment to the muscles, and determine by its articulations the extent and direction of the motions. The skeleton performs part of its functions through the hard- ness and rigidity of the bones, and the solidity of the articulations. The rest it performs through the mobility of the articulations. 643. In their motions^ the bones articulated by diarthrosis act in the manner of levers. The greater part are levers of the third kind, or that in which the power is interposed between the fulcrum and weight. The centre of motion or fulcrum is in the articular extremity of the bone, the resistance or weight at the other extremity, and the mus- cular power is applied in an intermediate point, which is commonly very near the fulcrum. Some of them are levers of the second kind, or that in which the weight is intermediate between the ful- crum and power. Some also are levers of the first kind, in which the fulcrum is interposed between the weight and the power. 644. As the bones are not all formed at the same time, and do not all grow in the same proportion, the form and proportions of " Loschgc. Dc Scekto Hum. Symmctrico, &c. Erlang. 1795,.