OF THE TECUMENTARY MEMBRANES IN GENERAL. 12.5 246. The tegumontary canal, besides the great appendages and the excretory ducts of the glands, of which mention has been made (242), is provided with a prodigious multitude of other more sim- ple and much smaller depressions, which have been named fol- licles, loculcs, lacunae, crypts, simple glands, &c. These follicles,* which were first described in certain parts of the integuments by various anatomists, and afterwards in all the parts by Malpighi, Bocrhaave, Kaau, and many others, in fact exist in all or nearly all the parts of these membranes. The follicles are round or nearly so, graniform, of a variable and in general very small size. They are in part situated in the substance of the membrane, and form a greater or less protuberance under its adherent substance. They have in general the form of a small ampulla, of which the more or less elongated neck opens at the free surface of the membrane. They are formed by this membrane folded upon itself, and consti- tuting a depression or a small cul-de-sac. It is to their presence that are owing the porosities which are perceived on the surface of the skin, on the nose especially, as well the granulations which in many places raise up the mucous membrane. The cavity of these fol- licles is extremely small in proportion to the thickness of their walls.. They are formed by the whole membranes, whether it retain its thickness, or the latter be increased or diminished. They are sur- rounded by a very great number of vascular ramuscules. Most of these small ampullae are simple, separate, and more or less distant from each other; but in certain parts of the skin, and especially of the mucous membranes, there occur follicles variously grouped and compounded. Besides the follicles, of which we have been speaking, the tegumentary membranes, and especially the inner, present many depressions, the orifice of which is as wide as the bot- tom, and which are named alveolar; and both also present a great number of small funnel-shaped depressions. The follicles differ moreover from each other in the nature of the fluid which they se- crete and which they contain. Those of the skin are called seba- ceous, and those of the internal tegument mucous, on account of the fluid which they furnish; those of the mucous membranes in the vicinity of the skin are of an intermediate nature. 247- The teguments have a foliated texture. They are, in a great part of their extent, evidently formed of two layers, the der- mis and epidermis. In many places there is also distinguished a somewhat compound layer between these two principal layers ; and, in a great number of parts, there are moreover appendages or pro- ductions which project at the free surface of the membrane. 248. The dermis, whatever may be the differences which it pre- sents in the two teguments and in their divisions, is always the • Sec M. Malpighi, Ephtola de StrueturA Glandutafum, &c. in Op. Posth. Opus- culum analomiciim, defubricu plandnlarnm. eontinens Unas cpislolas H. Bocrhaave et P. Ruyschii, &c. in op. omn. Ruyschii—A. Kaau, FcrsjdraHo dicta Jlippocrati, &c, cup. xi. xii. ot xiii.