OF THE TEGUMENTAKY MHMBKAXES. 1^1 i coagulablc matter is gclatiniform mucus similar to that which oc- i curs in the coagulated albumen of the scrum of the blood. The . coagulability of the healthy scrosity, which before Hcwson had been observed by Lower, Lancisi and Kaau, has been on the other hand denied by Sarcone, Cotunnio and Geromini.* For my own part I consider the serosity always coagulablc in the healthy state. 233. Of all the serous membranes, those of which we here speak have their functions and morbid actions more intimately connected with the organic phenomena. In this, however, they differ among themselves : thus, the membrane of the testicle and that of the ab- domen differ greatly in this respect. ■ 234. What has been said respecting the morbid alterations of the whole nervous system also, applies more particularly to them. They are subject, more than the others, to certain defects of original con- formation, such as the unnatural apertures that are observed in some cases of monstrosity, and of which they may all present exam- ples, as well as the prolongations or appendages which envelope congenital herniae and other displacements of the viscera. 235. The accidental herniae are also accompanied with an al- most constant alteration of form in the serous membranes of the viscera, consisting of the production of a hernial sac which enve- lopes the displaced parts. This sac is formed by the serous mem- brane which invests the walls, and which the viscera, as they be- come displaced, push before them. 236. Dropsy, inflammation and its effects, false membranes, ad- hesions, and accidental productions, whether similar or morbid, are more common in the serous membranes of the viscera than in the other kinds, and more common in certain of them than in others. 237- Although the splanchnic serous membranes form a pretty natural group, they yet present differences which belong to parti- cular anatomy; and, moreover, the arachnoid membrane differs greatly from the others. It has indeed the same conformation as the other serous membranes, but its consistence is very soft, its te- nuity extreme, and its texture impossible to determine ; it appears to be homogeneous; and no vessels have been discovered in it, even in the diseased state. Most of the morbid phenomena that are attributed to it take place in the adjacent cellular tissue of the pia mater. In short it seems to constitute a genus of itself. CHAPTER III. OF THE TECUMENTARY MEMBRANES. ■2:iU. The Tcgumcntary Membranes are those which invest the pra ts naturally exposed to the contact of foreign substances, whe- • Sagg o sulhi Gcnesi, c cura deli' idropc Cremona, 1816.