LIFE OF BECLAKD. XXIV the care of conducting his corpse to its last asylum, took charge of it themselves, and carried it to the church of Saint Sulpice, which was in a moment filled with men of science, professors, and students. On issuing from the church, Beclard's remains were seized with the same eagerness, and the coffin, supported by a mass of pupils anxious to pay a last tribute of admiration and gratitude, was in this manner borne to the cemetery of Pere La- chaise. Those who were unable to obtain the honour of carrying this precious burden followed it in mournful si- lence, and thus formed a more imposing train than is ge- nerally presented by the mercenary crowds which sur- round the funeral car of the rich and powerful. The Royal Academy and the School of Medicine di- rected eloquent speakers to render the last honours to the manes of Beclard; and the pupils, anxious to give their master a lasting testimony of their sorrow, opened a subscription on the spot for the erection of a funeral monument. The School of Medicine and the friends of our celebrated professor imitated the example of his young admirers, and there was presently seen to rise up- on his tomb a monument which will always recall to mind the talents of Beclard, the public grief of which he was the object, and the noble admiration of a studious youth for a man of science, to whose lessons they listen- ed with avidity, and who, the victim of his ardour in the pursuit of knowledge, perished at the age of 39, when on the point of attaining the summit of his glory.* Paris, 15th December, 1826. * While the School of Medicine was deploring the loss which it had sus- tained in the person of Be'clard, the city of Angers, not less afflicted by so me- lancholy an event, and desirous of honouring the memory of a man who had done so much for the glory of his country, charged M. David, his countryman and friend, equally celebrated in his art, to retrace in marble the features of the rival of Bichat. ERRATUM. Page 210, line 30, for inspiration real expiration.