OF THE NERVOUS SYSTKM. In the encephalon as in the spinal marrow, the grey substance forms only after the white, and even only after the /lines of the Utter are united by commissures in the median line. Alter birth, the growth of the nervous system, which up to this period has been so rapid, now slackens greatly. Next to the in- ternal ear and the eye, it is the part which then grows most .slowly. In old age, the nervous system undergoes a sensible diminution of volume, which manifests itselt in the encephalon by the contrac- tion of the cranium,* and which may also be determined by mea- suring the spinal marrow. 765. The nervous system is subject to numerous vices of confor- mation, -f- There is a case known of the total absence of the ner- vous system : it was observed in an acephalous fcetus reduced to a small shapeless mass. There is a considerable number of cases of absence of the encephalon and head. There are numerous examples of total privations of the nervous centre, the spinal nerves and gan- glia existing. We have a still greater number of cases of absence of the encephalon, the spinal marrow existing, as well as the nerves of the face and neck. The spinal marrow may have remained open, or hollow, or extended to the whole canal. In certain cases the cerebellum and tubercles exist, as well as the crura cerebri, thalami nervorum opticorum, and corpora striata, and the hemispheres alone are wanting. In some cases the hemispheres are incomplete; the middle or posterior lobes are destitute of grooves and circumvolu- tions. Sometimes the corpus callosum alone is wanting ;J or there remains a cavity in the substance of the hemisphere, or in the sep- tum, &c. The cerebellum may present similar deficiencies, espe- cially in the number of its lamina?.|| All these cases are imperfec- tions or defects of development. There may exist defects of symmetry or defects of proportion among the different parts of the system. 766. The consistence of the nervous system is sometimes chang- ed. The softening § is a very frequent alteration of a part of the central nervous mass. The softened nervous substance is some- times at the point of being liquid. Its colour is sometimes milk- white; at other times it is yellowish, pink, red or brown. This alteration is met with in the optic thalami, the corpora striata, the hemispheres of the brain in the cerebellum, and even in the spinal marrow. It gives rise, according to its seat, to various derange- ments of the sensations, voluntary motions, and other functions of # Tenon, Rcchcrchcs sur Ic Crane Huma'tn. Mem. definite Ncrvcus, §c. Phys. et Math. T. I. -j- A. Beclard. MeWoire sur les Foetus Aeephales. Paris, 1815. Geoffrey Saint. Ililaiie. PhtlO*. Anatom. vol. ii. llreschet. Dictionn. dc. Med. Art. Acephhteand Aneir- cephale. C. P. Ollivior, of Angers, lissui sur I'Anatomic, et les Vices dc Confur mutton dc la Moelle Euiniire. Paris, 1823 Idem. Traile dc la MoeUe JSjnuiilre et de set Maladies, 8vo I aroclie, Esiai d'Anat. Pathol, sur les Monsiruosiths dc la Face. Paris, 1^23. % Reil. Archiv.fxlr die physiologic. Tom. xi. || Mulacarne. Neuro-Enccphalofomia. Pavia, 1701. § Rpstuila llechcrclus sur /• ramollisscmcnt du Ctrvcuu, 2il ed. Paris, 1S23.