OF THE EXTERNAL MUSCLES. 318 Such arc the change of the angle which the muscle and the bone form, by means of certain anatomical dispositions, as the volume of the articular extremities of the bones, the existence of apophyses at the place where the muscles arc attached, that of the sesamoid bones, &c. Such is also the diminution of friction by the syno- viae, &c In fine, the animal mechanism presents the same perfection as that which is everywhere to be admired in nature. What the muscle loses in force, motion gains in extent and in velocity, by the em- ployment of the lever of the third kind, and by the obliquity of in- sertion. On the other hand, the obliquity of the muscular fibres upon the tendons, by diminishing the extent of motion, and even the force of the muscle, permits, under a small volume, the union of a very great number of fibres, which compensates, and much more than compensates, the loss of power; without speaking of the form and freedom of the limbs, which could not take place with any other insertion, or any other direction of the muscles with re- lation to the bones. 725. The muscle is the seat and the immediate organ of con- traction, just as the teguments and the organs of sense, which form part of them, are the seat of impression. But just as sensa- tion takes place only, in so far as the impression is propagated by the nerves to the nervous centre, so is it from the nervous centre that volition is propagated, by the nerves, to the muscle, for put- ting it in motion. In the one case, as in the other, there is, moreover, something that is entirely incomprehensible; which is, the manner in which the being acquires the knowledge of the sen- sation, and also the manner in which it determines the volition. This is not the proper place for examining the yet insolvable ques- tion of the reciprocal action of the organism and the mind. Be this as it may, the volition proceeds from the nervous centre, is propagated by the nerves, and determines the contraction of the external muscles. If the nerve is cut or interrupted by a tight li- gature, &c. the muscle, which still remains irritable, no longer contracts voluntarily. In the following chapter will be seen what is the precise, or, at least, probable, seat, in the nervous system, of the organic principle of the voluntary motions. 726. The effects of the contraction of the external muscles are to determine the attitudes and motions of the body, by acting up- on the skeleton; to move the skin and organs of sense; to produce the voice, speech, and gesture; and, lastly, to subserve, in a more or less necessary, but always auxiliary, manner, the vegetative functions. 727. It has already been seen that the straight muscles, in con- tracting, draw one of their extremities, or both, nearer to the centre, according as one of the points of attachment only is moveable, or as they are both so ; and that the circular muscles, in contracting, contract the oiifices or canals which they form. The curved mus- cles become straight when they contract, if their attachments are