OF THE BONUS. 357 >5N <^ ,tle?> ">e compact, sob ? areolar or spongy aibj "id fine, the gr^t canal spongy substaace, # U ? tbnned of compact sub- ; two laminae touch each I", they are separated by to the thickness of the rr table, which is si the outer table, bear;1 ngj- substance, that'of' ioaofthe^fj5 to speak, foreign to them ; it depends upon the presence and the penetration of the medullary tissue, and upon its numerous ves- sels in the very substance of the spongy bone, and upon its contact on one of the faces only of the compact bone. 582. The texture of the bones * is one of the points of anatomy that has given rise to the greatest number of writings and investi- gations. Malpighi, the first author who deserves mention, consi- ders the tissue of the bones as resulting from lamina?, fibres, and filaments, with an intermediate bony juice. It is, according to him, like a sponge filled with wax. Gagliardi admits lamina? or bractea?, and bony threads of different forms, which resemble them. Havers is pretty much of Malpighi's opinion, and admits lamina? formed of fibres, and connected by the bony juice. Lasone de- : scribes lamina? formed of ossified fibres, connected with each other by oblique filaments. Rcichel, having examined portions of bones : softened in a mineral acid, saw that they might be divided into la- iminoe, and- then into fibres, forming a porous and tubular whole, which is continuous with the spongy substance. Scarpa concludes, 1 from the examination of healthy and diseased bones, of bones en- 1 tire and deprived of earthy substances, and of bones before and af- tter their entire development, that the osseous tissue, even the com- ] pact substance, is a cellular and reticulated tissue, entirely similar to the spongy substance. Medici has observed, and the circum- stance has long been known to those who extract gelatine from I bones, that the compact substance of the long bones, deprived of 1 earthy salts by the action of a weak acid, divides into several la- ijaairise or layers, adhering to each other by fibres. 583. To examine the texture of the bony tissue, it being cx- tttemely hard, one is obliged to have recourse to chemical processes iwhich, in decomposing the bone, must have some action upon the (part which remains subjected to examination. Be this as it may, if a bone be immersed for some days in a vegetable acid, or in a r mineral acid diluted with water, the saline substance which enters iin large proportion into the bone, is removed from it, and the Ibone, retaining its form and size, but having lost a part of its. " Malpighi. De Ossium Slructura, inop.posth—D. Gagliardi, Anatome Ossium no- wis incentis iltustrato. liomae, 1689.—CI. Havers, Ostcologia nova, fyc. Lond. 1691. -—Description exaele des os, comprise en trois trailtls, par J. J. Courtial, J. I;. Petit, fcj Le'mery—Delasone, Mini, stir l'i rganisation des os, in Mini, de VAcad. Iioyalc des ^Sciences. Paris, 1751—J. F. Rcichel, de Ossium ortu alque structwd. Lips. 1760 IB. S. Albinus, De Conslructionc ossium, in Annot. Acad. Lib. vii. cap. 17. Perenot- itti, Mem. sur la construction et sur Vaccroissement des os.' Mem. de Turin, t. ii. 178*. i—— A. Scarpa, De Peniliori ossium structurd commentarius. Lips. 1795, and Paris, ■ 11804—V. Malacarne, Aucluarium obs. et icon, ad oslcol. et osteopath. Ludwigii et Scar- ' ypar, Patav. 1801—Howship, Microscop. Observ. on the Structure of Bone, in Mu- dico-Cliir. Trans, vol. vii. Lond. 1816.—M. Troja, Observationi■ et cxperimcnti sul- l.le osia, Napoli, 1814.— Medici, Esperienze intorno alia tessitura organica dclle ossa, in tpputcoli scientific', t. ii. Bologna, 1818 Cousidcraziuni intorno alia less. org. del/cossa, tcritte d'i M. Medici, $c. in liposta alle oppus. fait, dal S. D. C SpcraiKa, e ial S. Cav, \A. Scarpa, Bologna, 1819. S